OUCH ! THE CRICKET BUG : " Cricket Ka Keeda To Hoga Hi , Jab Ho Cricbuzz Ka Mobile App " - Cricbuzz , the No. 1 Cricket App , launches a Television Commercial. If this tickled your funny bone , do like and share the ad !
Dear fans , Go Cricket is now Cricbuzz. We welcome all the cricket lovers from Go Cricket page on board. Let the fun begin !
Three million fans and counting... Thanks a ton for helping us make cricbuzz the No. 1 cricket destination .
Where were you when KKR won the IPL last year ? Send us your interesting stories , photos or videos on Twitter , Facebook or fanfare @ cricinfo.com
How did the night go , Australia ?
World Cup Men of the Finals down the years
Just like in 1992 , a left-arm quick came back into the attack to take two wickets in an over and become the Man of the Match in an MCG World Cup final
New Zealand 's best World Cup campaign comes to a close # CWC15
What has been your best memory of the World Cup ? # CWC15 Here 's what fans at the MCG said
What 's your message to the Indian team after their semi-final exit ?
There was plenty for India to be proud in their World Cup campaign , especially after they entered the tournament looking down and out # CWC15
On Sunday , will it be the team with the most World Cups or the one searching for its first ? # CWC15 # AUSvNZ
Steven Smith has tormented Indian bowlers all season
Playing the innings of his life and taking New Zealand to their first World Cup final has left Grant Eliott with one small regret
The image we will remember this World Cup by ? # CWC15
Yet again , South Africa 's World Cup journey ends in heartbreak # CWC15
What were you thinking when you hit that six ? # CWC15 # GrantElliott
Interested in knowing more about the final stages of the Cricket World Cup live from # SeeSydney ? Join Michael Holding for a Q&A session who will answer all your questions in real time - send us your questions now and we will see you in an hour .
Six previous World Cup semi-finals , six defeats. Will New Zealand go further this time ? # CWC15
We are going to have a first-time World Cup finalist ! # CWC15
Cricket never has and never will see another like him. Shahid Afridi Official
A team with seven wins in a row v an in-form home team that has never lost a World Cup semi-final. Ca n't wait ! # CWC15
Latest Group B points table : West Indies above both Pakistan and Ireland on net run-rate
Brendan Taylor becomes the first Zimbabwe batsman to make back-to-back World Cup tons # WhatAWayToGo
A sight for Bangladesh fans to savour. Group A points table
John Mooney and Kumar Sangakkara use differently designed helmets to protect the back of their necks
All hail Kumar Sangakkara. He becomes the first batsman to score three consecutive World Cup centuries !
Not a great day for the African teams today , but perhaps a bit of consolation seeing the leading run-getters ' chart
Happy birthday , Sir Viv
Dale Steyn on AB de Villiers : " It 's like watching the Matrix movie. There 's Neo right there. He does n't understand how good he is. "
Latest Group B points table : Pakistan in third place , but will they be there at the end of tomorrow 's game as well ?
Cartoon : Media gag ?
Our reader Pankaj Zarekar caught this game of cricket , being played at Mulshi dam in Pune , India
UAE captain Mohammad Tauqir : " The only way we can stop South Africa scoring 400 is by winning the toss and batting first "
Happy birthday to one of Pakistan 's greatest batsmen , Inzamam-ul-Haq
Updated points table from Group B : Ireland -1.137 , Pakistan -1.373 , West Indies -0.313
Andy Zaltzman and Jarrod Kimber are up to their usual in Two Men Out. This time they focus on : The evil scourge that is blighting cricket .
West Indies have selection issues. # Page2 # Satire # CWC15
Australia 's left-arm quicks had wildly contrasting days # Mitchcraft
Martin Crowe , New Zealand 's greatest batsman and one of the game 's greatest thinkers , was inducted into the ICC Hall of Fame today
AB de Villiers ' favourite World Cup opponent ? West Indies , of course .
Early days still , but is this set to be the iconic image of the 2015 World Cup ? # Afghanistan
Our readers had voted South Africa as the best fielding and bowling outfit. We asked about the best batting unit - more than 600,000 voted
Yesterday , we asked a question. Did n't take long for Chris Gayle to answer it ! # CWC15 # DoubleTon
Chris Gayle : Liability or lynchpin ? What do you think ?
The closest shave of them all : Samiullah Shenwari was given not out and the DRS stood with umpire 's call. But have a look.. .
Nasir Jamshed 0 ( 1 ) Ahmed Shehzad 1 ( 10 ) Younis Khan 0 ( 1 ) Haris Sohail 0 ( 6 ) Pakistan 1 for 4 in 4 overs , target 311. # Mercurial
Tim Southee. 7-33. Best-ever by a NZ bowler. Eng 123 all out .
Why did Michael Holding become a ferociously quick bowler ?
Nearly 700,000 votes on which team has the best bowling attack in the World Cup
India v Pakistan being shown at a wedding function ? An office meeting ? Some other unusual place ? FB , tweet or instagram your pics with # Fanfare. Or mail them in to fanfare @ cricinfo.com
All teams batting first this World Cup have made at least 300. Pakistan 's stunning death bowling meant India nearly did n't get there .
The most criticised shot in World Cup history - recreated using potatoes. Yes , potatoes .
Steven Finn 's was just the eighth hat-trick in World Cup history
What Rahul Dravid , Graeme Smith , Martin Crowe and other stars are looking forward to most at the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015. And you ?
Less than 24 hours to the World Cup opener ! Headed to Australia or NZ ? Or setting an alarm to wake up at odd hours to catch the action on TV ? Either way , share your excitement and experiences with us by posting a cricket-related selfie on Facebook , Instagram or Twitter with # MyWorldCupSelfie. The best selfies will be featured on our site .
Your Shots : Our reader Arifuddin Ahmed sends a pic of his friends using the Galle Fort 's wall as a backdrop for their cricket practice
What are you most looking forward to this World Cup ? Tell us at fanfare @ cricinfo.com , and we 'll publish the best entries .
WATCH Yasir Shah get Eoin Morgan for a duck , in the ongoing World Cup warm-up game .
Pic : Hashim Amla hits out
An early contender for Hairstyle of the World Cup. Who is this ?
One thing stands out in Pakistan 's bowling attack for the World Cup
A cricketing high : Rizong Monastery in Ladakh , located approximately 3500m above sea level Pic from our reader Morten Kattenh Ã ¸ j. Send yours in to yourshots @ cricinfo.com
Over 288,000 votes to decide which team has the best fielding unit going into the World Cup. Results below :
Ever tracked a World Cup match on a plane ? Watched one on a giantscreen on a beach ? Share your story with pics ( if any ) and you could be published on ESPNcricinfo. Mail us at Fanfare @ cricinfo.com on this week 's theme : Where in the world did you watch the World Cup ?
Today , New Zealand became the last of the top eight teams to reach 100 ODI centuries. With 224 , India lead the way - 40 ahead of next-best , Australia .
As of now , bowlers placed 1 , 2 and 8 in the ICC ODI rankings ca n't bowl at the World Cup
Bowlers are striking more often in World Cups , but there has n't been a corresponding dip in the bowling averages
In the 1979 World Cup , the average run-rate was as low as 3.54. By 2011 , it was more than 5. Little chance that it wo n't be even more in 2015 .
Some big names wo n't be at the World Cup. Which star will you miss the most ?
Happy birthday to two outstanding left-arm bowlers : Chaminda Vaas and Daniel Vettori Combined international wicket tally : 1450
Ready , set , go : The Pakistan team poses for photos in Lahore ahead of its departure for the World Cup .
With a month to go to the World Cup , India are back to their favourite format and on top of the world - or on top of the MCG , at least ( in their new ODI kit ) .
Archbishop Desmond Tutu : " Cricket has illustrated a central concept : when we work together , we are most likely to succeed "
The time is 1.11 in England - a good time to remember one of the game 's most recognisable characters. David Shepherd would have turned 74 today .
Watch : Stuart MacGill answers every cricketer 's least favourite question
Fourth ODI between Pakistan and New Zealand will be held as scheduled. Full text of PCB press release : While expressing its deepest condolences to the families of those who lost their loved ones in the dastardly terrorist attack on an Army school in Peshawar yesterday , the PCB announces that the proceeds of the 4th ODI between Pakistan and New Zealand will be donated to the families of the martyred children and towards rebuilding the school. To demonstrate solidarity in view of the enormous tragedy that has befallen the nation , the PCB has decided to postpone today â € ™ s Malala Cup final match scheduled at Muridke. The PCB has also postponed the 4th One day match between Pakistan A and Kenya team scheduled for 18th December. The Fourth One Day will now be played on 19th December. " We tried our best to postpone the 4th ODI but were constrained by the Broadcasters commitment as well as for cricketing reasons advised by New Zealand management " , explained the PCB Spokesman. " We are playing outside Pakistan only because of the threat of terrorism at home. If we allow terrorists to disrupt our matches abroad , then all will be lost. So we have decided to go ahead with the match and our players will wear black armbands in grief and observe a minute 's silence and flags will be lowered. " The PCB will donate proceeds of the match to the families of the martyred and towards rebuilding the school. "
" Come on , " yells Virat Kohli on reaching a terrific century in his first Test as captain
A snapshot of how the highest individual ODI score has moved over the years. Rohit Sharma 's 45-run lead is staggering !
BOOM ! Rohit Sharma does the double double ! This is how he progressed to his second double-ton ( and then onwards past 250 ) : 1st 50 - 72 balls. 2nd 50 - 28 balls. 3rd 50 - 25 balls. 4th 50 - 26 balls. 5th 50 - 15 balls # Acceleration
Ian Smith was on air at the # GeorgiePieSuperSmash when Jesse Ryder hit a six , that landed on a car ... ... Ian Smith 's car .
You 've probably not seen a better crowd catch than this one. It was worth $ 5000 too. ( At the Georgie Pie Super Smash in New Zealand )
Woot woot ! Nepal on top of the world , after beating Uganda to win the WCL Division 3 title .
Happy birthday Matthew Hayden and Michael Vaughan
With their historic win in Dubai , Pakistan have gone past India , and pushed Australia to second in the ICC rankings. If they win the second Test , Pakistan could move into the top three. India , meanwhile , drop to No. 6. A little more than three years back , they were No. 1 .
Breaking : West Indies Cricket Board calls for emergency meeting on October 21 in Barbados to conduct an assessment of " all the ramifications of the premature end " to the tour of India and any actions which may be necessary following the move. More to follow.. .
The World of Cricket mourns one of the all-time greats as Richie Benaud passes away at the age of 84. Pay your tributes to the great man and tell us your memories here
Make sure you tune in to this week 's ICC Cricket 360 Â ° , where a young boy 's dream of watching the # cwc15 Final live turned into a reality !
133 Test caps - the most by any England player 8,463 Test runs - the 2nd highest by an England batsman 4,677 ODI runs - the 3rd highest by an England batsman 241 Test dismissals - the 3rd most by an England wicket-keeper 163 ODI dismissals - the most by an England wicket-keeper Happy Birthday to the Gaffer , Alec Stewart !
# OnThisDay in 1991 , Mark & Steve Waugh become the first twins to play together in a Test match ! What are your favourite memories of the Waughs batting together ?
It was a tournament like no other ! This week on ICC Cricket 360 Â ° , we look back at the highlights of a brilliant # cwc15
It was the most watched Cricket World Cup of all time - this week 's ICC Cricket 360 Â ° sees us look back at one unforgettable tournament
# OnThisDay - India won the 2011 Cricket World Cup ! What was your highlight from the tournament ?
Happy Birthday to the 2015 World Cup winning captain , Michael Clarke ! Was winning # cwc15 Clarke 's biggest achievement ?
David Gower always brought elegance and grace to the crease for England , averaging 44.25 runs in Test Matches ! Happy Birthday ! What was David Gower 's defining moment ?
BREAKING - Daniel Vettori has announced his retirement from international cricket. Let 's hear your tributes for this New Zealand legend # ThanksDaniel
The very FINAL episode of ICC # CWCDaily ! Please enjoy share and pass your message on to James and the team here , thank you all for being involved # cwc15
Champions ! # cwc15
Australia start their # cwc15 celebrations in style ! What was your favourite moment of the Final ?
Who are you backing for # cwc15 glory ? LIKE and SHARE to get behind your team # AUSvNZ
What does it feel like to be on the eve of singing the National Anthems in front of over 90,000 people at the MCG ! ?
The former England captain picks his winners of the # cwc15 final in Melbourne
Will Australia set the record straight when they meet New Zealand in the # cwc15 Final or will the Black Caps remain unbeaten ? ! # AUSvNZ
Cricket at The Shire ? ! This week 's ICC Cricket 360 Â ° sees Stephen Fleming among the guests for a very unique cricket tournament
Missed any of Australia v India ? Catch up with all the highlights with # CWCDaily !
In the latest of the Facebook Cricket Legends series , 2011 ICC Cricket World Cup winner Virender Sehwag talks about his favourite captain and favourite memories from the tournament
In the latest of the Facebook Cricket Legends series right in advance of # INDvAUS The Player of the Tournament at the ICC Cricket World Cup 2011 , Yuvraj Singh gives us his thoughts on his career and # cwc15
This is one # CWCDaily episode you wo n't want to miss ! Catch up on all the best bits from the most remarkable Semi-Final between New Zealand and South Africa now !
In the latest of the Facebook Cricket Legends series , ICC Cricket World Cup winner Brett Lee talks about his favourite CWC memories along with who he thinks will be the star of # cwc15
Indian legend Sourav Ganguly gives us his prediction for the first semi-final in Auckland , who will make their first ever World Cup final ?
It was 23 years ago that New Zealand played a semi-final at Eden Park , these Blackcap legends think there is only one way to move on !
ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Ambassador , Sachin Tendulkar sends his message to the # cwc15 Final Four , and passes on the secret to World Cup success
The Leaders of the Attack ! Which star bowler will take the Semi Final spotlight ?
Give your team the boost they need to make the # cwc15 Final ! LIKE and SHARE to show which team you are backing for glory
New Zealand v West Indies was one incredible match. Did n't get a chance to watch it live ? Catch up with the best bits with # CWCDaily !
Brendon McCullum has been in the spotlight during the build up to New Zealand 's Quarter Final clash against the West Indies. Here is what he has had to say.. .
Australia v Pakistan was one rollercoaster of a ride ! Catch up with all the highlights from the game with # CWCDaily !
What a mouth-watering Semi-Final we have in Sydney # cwc15
You wo n't want to miss this week 's ICC Cricket 360 Â ° , as we 're in Napier for a very special game of cricket featuring many legends of the game
Who are you supporting during Australia v Pakistan ? Share to show support for your team !
What has been your highlight of Bangladesh 's # cwc15 campaign ?
Missed any of the best bits from India 's win over Bangladesh ? Catch up now with # CWCDaily !
The MCG went # cricketselfie crazy today as the fans supported with great passion ! Send us your # cricketselfie 's and tell us who you are supporting !
Missed any of the action from the first Quarter Final of # cwc15 ? Catch all the best bits now with # CWCDaily !
Who are you supporting during India v Bangladesh ? Share to show support for your team !
The end of the era... thank you Kumar Sangakkara and Mahela Jayawardena !
These two are a breathtaking matchup ! Who will be the speed demon in the Sri Lanka and South Africa Quarter Final at the SCG ?
Crowd pleasers ! No boundary is big enough for these big hitters , BUT who is the sweetest timer of the cricketball at # cwc15 ?
It could n't have been tighter on 'Super Sunday ' and Pool B continued to throw up surprises right to the very last ball. What are your favourite # cwc15 moments from these three sides ?
The most difficult bowling stats to come by at # cwc15... Will maidens and economy rate be the deciding factor come March 29th ?
Pool A produced some of the most thrilling results in ICC Cricket World Cup history. What were your favourite moments from these three nations ?
The pool stages have come to a close. Here are the top performers at # cwc15 so far .
As the pool stage comes to a close , # CWCDaily has some awards to hand out... # cwc15
Thanks for the memories Ireland ! Congratulations on a wonderful # cwc15 campaign and safe journey home .
The knockout stage is set. Who will win # cwc15 ?
Ramiz & Nasser pick the side they think will win the crucial # PAKvIRE showdown in Adelaide , do you agree ?
# SuperSunday is upon us ! With 2 spots in the Quarterfinals up for grabs , here is how the 3 challengers have got here # cwc15
Brendan Taylor bows out of international cricket and Australia win in style on today 's # CWCDaily Listen out for James Green 's questions at the end , comment below ! # cwc15
Bangladesh v New Zealand and England v Afghanistan are up on # CWCDaily. Plus we check in with some of Bangladesh 's big names before the Quarterfinals. Do n't forget to answer James Green 's question by commenting below ! # cwc15
Watch highlights of South Africa becoming the 6th guaranteed team in the # cwc15 Knockouts with CWC Daily
Do n't miss ICC Cricket 360 Â ° as we give you an exclusive guide to some of the best ICC cricket world cup merchandise on sale !
It 's all about one man on today 's # CWCDaily. Plus we speak to Australia/New Zealand players on what it means to play in a home World Cup. # cwc15 Do n't forget to comment on James Green 's question below !
# CWCDaily brings you highlights from India v Ireland , and some past stars give their views on Sri Lankan cricket # cwc15
With India set to take on Ireland in Hamilton , we look at the top wicket takers for both sides. # cwc15
Bangladesh fans have been celebrating their win against England all over the world # cwc15
Miss Bangladesh v England ? Find out which team is packing their bags as we bring you all the highlights on # CWCDaily
Eoin Morgan on England 's exit from # cwc15
Missed any of the big hitting from New Zealand v Afghanistan or Australia v Sri Lanka ? Catch up with all the highlights with # CWCDaily !
South Africa took time out from # cwc15 to combine with UNAIDS and engage with the community # zerodiscrimination # thinkwise
South Africa took time out from # cwc15 to combine with UNAIDS and engage with the community # zerodiscrimination # thinkwise
It 's very tight in Pool B , with Ireland , Pakistan and West Indies fighting it out for the last 2 qualification spots. Who will make it to the Knockouts ?
2 matches , 1,081 runs , 38 wickets , loads of drama - you wo n't want to miss this episode of # CWCDaily !
Missed any of the action from the thrilling India v West Indies match ? Catch up now with # CWCDaily !
Did n't get the chance to watch the thriller between Bangladesh and Scotland ? Catch up now with # CWCDaily !
Shane Warne Interview Part 2 In the second of a six part video Q&A series with some of the world 's leading cricketers , we chat to the 1999 ICC Cricket World Cup Winning legend , Shane Warne .
Day 18 of the ICC Cricket World Cup saw records fall for fun ! Catch up with all the best bits with # CWCDaily !
Afghanistan have WON the toss in Perth and will bat first against the hosts , Shane Warne gave us his thoughts before play started at the WACA # cwc15
Missed any of South Africa 's record-breaking match against Ireland ? Catch up with all the highlights with # CWCDaily !
Dale Steyn has reached the magical milestone of 100 ODIs ! But how do his stats compare to those of other South African pace bowlers after 100 games ?
With the players taking a well earned rest , here is how things currently stand in both Pools. # cwc15
Today 's # CWCDaily has full highlights from England v Sri Lanka and we catch up with Pakistan captain Misbah-ul-Haq # cwc15
It 's a glorious morning here in Wellington , here are the standings leading in to Day 16
WATCH the most thrilling finale of the tournament so far with # CWCDaily. Australia v New Zealand features on the show today along with India v UAE. # cwc15
A special moment during the break at Eden Park as Martin Crowe is inducted into the ICC Hall of Fame His emotional speech also backed the Blackcaps 'To Brendon and the Boys , we love you and we dare to believe'
# CWCDaily is out ! We review all the action from the AB de Villiers Show , as well as catching up with Ravi Ashwin ahead of India v UAE .
There have been some incredible moments over the last four days. Which has been your favorite ? # cwc15
Shuan Pollock gives his opinion on AB de Villiers ' 162 * # cwc15
WATCH a nail-biting finish between Afghanistan & Scotland as well as highlights from Sri Lanka v Bangladesh on # CWCDaily .
The ICC Cricket World Cup trophy tour had it all ! The trophy saw the extreme to the wonderful , do not miss this week 's ICC Cricket 360 Â ° for the best bits of the tour
Who 's your favorite 'warrior ' at # cwc15 ? Hamid Hassan of Afghanistan or John Mooney of Ireland ?
The thrilling Ireland v. UAE match stars on # CWCDaily , do n't miss the highlights from the closest match of # cwc15 so far
Tune into # CWCDaily for the highlights of the most talked about game of the World Cup so far. Do n't miss any of the carnage caused by Chris Gayle and WATCH now
Chris Gayle is the envy of all the batsmen at ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , will anyone knock him off the top spots ?
Watch highlights of England 's historical first ICC Cricket World Cup meeting with Scotland with # CWCDaily
WATCH all the highlights from Pakistan v West Indies , including an unwanted record for Pakistan 's top order , with # CWCDaily
Missed any of the action from a remarkable day at # cwc15 ? Catch up with all the best action from Sri Lanka v Afghanistan and South Africa v India with # CWCDaily
Watch the highlights of New Zealand 's remarkable game with England , plus catch up with all that 's going on at the World Cup with # CWCDaily
WATCH highlights of Zimbabwe 's exciting encounter with UAE with # CWCDaily
The ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 opening ceremony was a spectacular showpiece. ICC Cricket 360 Â ° brings you the best of the event as well as the magic # cwc15 moments so far
WATCH the highlights from Afghanistan 's historic first ICC Cricket World Cup match , against Bangladesh , right here on Facebook , thanks to # CWCDaily
New Zealand remain unbeaten at # cwc15 despite a strong showing in the field by Scotland. Do n't miss a moment of World Cup action and tune into # CWCDaily now
The best so far... Who will have the highest individual scores and best bowling figures at # cwc15 and what will they be ?
Will AB de Villiers save his birthday celebrations for March 29th... The # cwc15 Final ? ! Happy Birthday AB !
In the first of a six part video Q&A series with some of the world 's leading cricketers , we chat to the 1999 ICC Cricket World Cup Winning legend , Shane Warne .
Ireland announced themselves to ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 with a historic victory against the West Indies. Do n't miss the best bits on # CWCDaily
Played 1 Won 1 ! The Co-Hosts get their tournament off to the perfect start with a dominant 98 run win over Sri Lanka in the opening match of # cwc15 at Christchurch. Corey Anderson scooped Player of the Match for his crushing 75 off 46 balls & 2 wickets. How far can the Blackcaps go ?
BRAND NEW starting today and to run for 40 episodes throughout the tournament is the # CWCDaily. Presented by avid cricket fan , James Green , the # CWCDaily includes a preview of the opening games , exclusive interviews with the Australian cricket team and the best of twitter , Facebook and the online world .
Make sure you tune in to ICC Cricket 360 Â ° this week , as our tour of all the ICC Cricket World Cup grounds heads to McLean Park
With tens of thousands in attendance and millions watching around the world , the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 opened in spectacular fashion with star-laden events in both Christchurch and Melbourne .
# GuessTheGround - can you guess which # cwc15 venue this is ?
The Gabba , Brisbane stars on ICC Cricket 360 Â ° this week as we continue to give you the official # cwc15 venue guide
The whole world 's going cricket crazy with less than two weeks now to ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 ! Even World Number One Golfer , Rory McIlroy managed to take time away from winning the Dubai Desert Classic to show off a good looking bowling action !
The final team to qualify for the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , the UAE are playing their first World Cup since 1996 and will be looking to add to their tally of one win .
Get Your Ticket Down Under with the # LG100GreatestFans !
South Africa 's greatest captain of all time ? Happy Birthday Graeme Smith
The best in the world are embarking on their journey 's , as preparations for the ICC Cricket World Cup heat up. Like & Share your favourite image .
ICC Cricket 360 Â ° continues to give you the definitive # cwc15 venue guide and this week we take you to the Wellington Regional Stadium or the 'Cake-Tin'
This is quite simply a MUST WATCH ahead of # cwc15 Hugely inspirational stuff from Cricket South Africa Tell us what inspired you as a young cricket lover ?
We know that # cwc15 is going to be the 'Biggest and Best ' World Cup ever , but this is taking it to another level is n't it ! ? Great stuff from the UAE Squad in Dubai today who were trying to break the record for the World 's Biggest Ever Cricket Bat ! !
Watch the round up of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Global Trophy Tour as the iconic World Cup Trophy went right around the globe !
Our tour of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 venues continues on ICC Cricket 360 Â ° this week as we take you to the beautiful Adelaide Oval
Which of these four big hitters are you most looking forward to seeing in action at # cwc15 ?
Mitchell Starc 's 6 wickets and Aaron Finch 's patient 96 sees Australia to a drama filled 4 wicket victory against India in the 2nd Match of the Tri-Series. Is ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 going to be the most dramatic tournament to date ?
Mitchell Starc dazzled with the ball and David Warner bullied with the bat to take Australia to a 3 wicket victory against England in the 1st Match of the Tri-Series Will Warner be the most destructive opener at # cwc15 ?
We take you to the spectacular Sydney Cricket Ground on ICC Cricket 360 Â ° this week , as we continue our tour of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Venues
The SCG came alive on Day 4 of the # AusvInd 4th Test as both sides took the attack to each other. Australia finished the day 348 runs ahead , but what will be the final outcome ?
Make sure you watch this week 's ICC Cricket 360 Â ° - we 've got a Sachin Tendulkar exclusive about his ICC Cricket World Cup memories !
Look who 's the star of this week 's ICC Cricket 360 Â ° .. .
The SCG remained a batsman 's paradise on Day 3 of the 4th Test , as Lokesh Rahul made a patient maiden Test 100 and Virat Kohli also made a classy century , his fourth of the series. India finished the day 230 runs behind Australia 's first innings total
Who was the bowler of the day ? A remarkable Day 1 of the 2nd Test saw 14 wickets fall , as Sri Lanka finished on 78/5 , still 143 runs behind
Will anyone beat this record ? # OnThisDay a 17-year-old ODI record was broken ! New Zealand 's Corey Anderson hammered a century off just 36 balls with the help of 14 sixes in Queenstown to beat the West Indies .
We have the 100 Greatest Moments , but are you one of the 100 Greatest Fans ? # cwc15
90 matches , 4,876 runs at an average of 38.09 , highest score of 224 , 33 50s , 6 100s , 256 catches , 38 stumpings - congratulations on a fantastic Test career MS Dhoni
There were twists and turns but India held out with the bat on Day 5 at the MCG to draw the 3rd Test against Australia , a result which secures a Series win for the hosts. Who will win the 4th and Final Test ?
It was a drama filled Day 4 at the MCG , as India produced some skillful bowling to keep the 3rd Test at tipping point. Australia finished the day with a lead of 326 runs , what will be the result of this Test match ?
New Zealand finished 2014 in style , producing a complete all-round performance to win the 1st Test by 8 wickets. Who was your Man of the Match ?
There has been some wonderful moments in Test cricket in 2014. Like and share your favourite
Australia could n't take all their chances on Day 3 of the 3rd Test , as Kohli and Rahane both made the hosts pay with classy hundreds , a late surge from Ryan Harris leaves India 462/8 at stumps
The ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 is coming to Australia and New Zealand in February and March 2015. WATCH the International TV Commercial and chase the dream with Sachin Tendulkar .
Rain curtailed most of Day 2 of the 2nd Test between South Africa and West Indies , but there was still time for Faf du Plessis to register his 4th Test century , as the hosts finished the day 289/3. What score will South Africa look to declare on ?
Day 2 of the 3rd Test was dominated by the bat. Steve Smith 's 192 led Australia to 530 and India are currently 108/1 in reply at stumps. Will India overhaul Australia 's 1st innings score ?
Who had the better of Day 1 ? India restricted Australia to 259/5 at stumps on Day 1 of the 3rd Test despite 50s from Chris Rogers , Shane Watson and Steve Smith .
The Manuka Oval , Canberra takes centre stage on ICC Cricket 360 Â ° this week , as we continue our tour of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Venues
With less than two months to # cwc15 the latest Reliance ICC ODI Player Rankings have been released. Are these the 10 best ODI batsmen in the World right now ? And will they star in Australia and New Zealand next year ?
Happy Birthday to West Indies talismanic all-rounder , Darren Sammy who turns 31 today , what 's your favorite Darren Sammy moment ? And will he star at # cwc15 ?
We take in the picturesque scenes of the Hagley Oval on ICC Cricket 360 Â ° this week as we visit Christchurch on our tour of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 venues
There were centuries for both AB de Villiers and Hashim Amla on Day 1 of the 1st Test. South Africa ending the day 340/3 against the West Indies .
India 's Robin Uthappa joins us for some quick fire questions , with Uthappa in the 30 Man Squad for India for # cwc15 , would you select him in your final 15 Man Squad for Australia and New Zealand ?
Just 2 Months to Go Now to the Start of ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 ! With all the great tournaments gone past , what amazing performances will we see at # cwc15 ? ?
Catch up with the 100 Greatest World Cup Moments Countdown by watching the latest video round up # cwc15
# GuessTheGround - can you guess which # cwc15 venue this is ?
Check out ICC Cricket 360 Â ° this week for a one off look at the historic Melbourne Cricket Ground , which will play host to the final of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015
Winning in the dark... # OnThisDay in 2000 England recorded their first series victory in Pakistan for 39 years as Graham Thorpe saw them home at the death .
England and Sri Lanka put on a coaching camp for some 40 children during the 25th anniversary of the UNICEF convention on the 'Rights of the Child ' ahead of their 4th ODI .
The ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 is coming to Australia and New Zealand in February and March 2015. WATCH the official TV Commercial and see why Greatness is Contagious .
England Cricket finish in emphatic fashion in the 3rd ODI against Sri Lanka with an explosive partnership from Joe Root and Jos Buttler to win by 5 wickets ( D/L Method )
Bangladesh make the perfect start to their preparations for next year 's ICC Cricket World Cup , beating Zimbabwe 5-0 in the 5 match series. How far will Bangladesh go at # cwc15 ?
# 63notout
Tributes continued around the world for Phillip Hughes as the World of Cricket and Sport paid their respects
'Phillip Hughes forever ' , emotional tribute from Richie Benaud
The World of Cricket stands together as one today
Phillip Hughes 63 not out forever
The star batsman of # cwc15 ? Anamul Haque is amongst the runs again as Bangladesh win the 3rd ODI against Zimbabwe by 124 runs
The build-up to the ICC Cricket World Cup continues in earnest on Wednesday , as Sri Lanka and England go head-to-head in a 7 match series. Which side do you think will go further at # cwc15 ?
The start of something special ? Tamim Iqbal and Anamul Haque put on an opening stand of 158 to help Bangladesh to victory by 68 runs in the 2nd ODI against Zimbabwe
Finch , Watson and Smith all make half centuries in Australia 's narrow 2 wicket win in the 5th ODI against South Africa at the SCG. The hosts seal the Series 4-1 and go to No.1 in the Reliance ICC ODI Rankings .
It 's been a brilliant Week One of the 100 Greatest World Cup Moments Countdown , what 's been your favorite memory so far ?
Bangladesh Cricket : The Tigers impress with the ball on Day 5 of the 3rd Test to record a 186 run victory against Zimbabwe and wrap up the Series 3-0. Who was your Man of the Series ?
Happy Birthday to the one of the true masters of reverse-swing , Waqar Younis !
Two of the fiercest competitors did not disappoint in the 1st ODI as Australia edge the contest by a 32 run winning margin against Cricket South Africa in Perth. Who will win the 2nd ODI ?
Do n't miss this weeks ICC Cricket 360 Â ° , where we round up all the drama from Malaysia in the Pepsi ICC World Cricket League Division 3 Tournament .
Zimbabwe looked confident with the bat to finish Day 2 of the 3rd Test 113/1 after bowling out Bangladesh Cricket : The Tigers for a sizeable 503. Who had the better day ?
A dominant Pakistan Cricket Team masters swing and spin on Day 4 of the 1st Test to leave New Zealand 306 runs behind at stumps with just 2 wickets remaining. Who will claim the man of the match award ?
Congratulations on 14 Years of Test cricket Bangladesh Cricket : The Tigers , here 's to many more in the future .
This year marks the 11th year of the LG ICC Awards , and a special TV show will be broadcast on 15 November. The show will recap the last year in world cricket and will feature interviews with many nominees and winners .
After Papua New Guinea 's historic first win in their maiden ODI yesterday , can they seal a first series win ? Watch LIVE stream as they chase Hong Kong 's 261 in Queensland # PNGvHKG
WATCH : Papua New Guinea 's inaugural ODI has just started in Queensland. Watch LIVE Stream here
Make sure you tune into this week â € ™ s ICC Cricket 360 Â ° , where we look at how UAE â € ™ s qualification for the ICC Cricket World Cup is helping to develop the next generation of cricketers
Bangladesh Cricket : The Tigers take a lead of 266 into the final day of the 2nd Test against Zimbabwe after ending Day 4 on 201/5. Will the home side force a result on Day 5 ?
You wo n't believe what 's been going on down in Auckland to mark 100 Days to Go until # cwc15 !
Hamilton Masakadza continues to make November a month of centuries , as his 154 * helps Zimbabwe to 331/5 at Stumps on Day 3 of the 2nd Test against Bangladesh Cricket : The Tigers. Will Masakadza reach 200 on Day 4 ?
It was Bangladesh Cricket : The Tigers 's turn for big Test runs as Tamim Iqbal and Shakib Al Hasan hit hundreds on Day 2 of the 2nd Test against Zimbabwe who finish the day 380 runs behind .
Misbah-Ul-Haq joins the Master Blaster ! Pakistan Captain Misbah has equalled the record for the Fastest Century in the history of Test Match cricket with a stunning 56 ball effort in Abu Dhabi Where does this innings rank in terms of the all-time greatest Test Match innings ?
Happy Birthday to the currently clean shaven Mitchell Johnson ! Who 's got the best facial hair in world cricket ?
Younus Khan hits a double century and surpasses 8000 Test runs in the 2nd Test against Australia. Is he Pakistan 's best ever batsman ?
Make sure you tune into this week â € ™ s ICC Cricket 360 Â ° , where we give you an exclusive tour of the Sir Donald Bradman Museum in Australia
Nepal have scored 223 in the Pepsi ICC World Cricket League Division 3 final in Kuala Lumpur .
Congratulations Daniel Vettori on a glittering ODI career. You are a true legend of the game. # cwc15
WOW ! How many people attended the # cwc15 final ? ! LISTEN to find out !
Welcome the BLACKCAPS back to New Zealand ! World Cup finalists New Zealand will be welcomed back into the country in Auckland tomorrow for a very special public event. WHEN : Tuesday 31 March , 6pm WHERE : The Cloud , Queens Wharf , Auckland All welcome ! # cwc15
Your # cwc15 winners are : AUSTRALIA !
Check out the 'selfie action ' being had at the final today ! Fans are loving the occasion here at the MCG ! # AUSvNZ
Here are some key numbers ahead of today 's final at the MCG. Does this help you pick a winner ? # AUSvNZ
" This is the ultimate game. " Listen as New Zealand captain Brendan McCullum talks about the challenge of playing Australia in the World Cup final at the MCG. # AUSvNZ
Just one day until the Australia and New Zealand fight it out for the grandest prize in cricket at the MCG. Who are you picking to win ? # AUSvNZ
Will Michael Clarke finish his ODI career as a World Champion ? # AUSvNZ
The sun has come out in Melbourne and Australia is warming into its work in the MCG nets ! Who are you picking to be Australia 's star player in the final tomorrow ? # AUSvNZ
Is there a more destructive batsmen in the Power Play than Brendan McCullum ? Can he get New Zealand off to a fast start against Australia in the final ? # AUSvNZ
What is it like to bowl to MS Dhoni , AB de Villiers or Brendan McCullum ? FIND out from one of our # cwc15 net bowlers who did exactly just that !
What a summer he 's having ! Will Steve Smith cap it off by leading Australia to the World Cup title at the MCG on Sunday ? # AUSvNZ
And then there were TWO ! Who are you picking to lift the crown when # AUSvNZ square off at the MCG on Sunday ?
As the action at the SCG heats up , check out this unique walk to the ground from earlier in the day ! Who is your pick to win tonight and advance to the final ? India or Australia ?
Fans have traveled from all over the world to be a part of # cwc15 ! We spoke to this fan who traveled from Los Angeles to attend the Semi Finals in Auckland and Sydney and Final in Melbourne. Do you agree with his pick for the winner of the tournament ?
There is going to be so many key match-ups which decide the # INDvAUS Semi Final tomorrow. Who do you think will win the battle between pace-bowler Mitchell Starc and opening batsmen Shikhar Dhawan ?
" Congratulations New Zealand " WATCH this special insight into the history making day at Eden Park where New Zealand made the World Cup final for the first time !
What 's Mike Hussey 's take on tomorrow 's MASSIVE Semi Final clash between Australia and India ? WATCH to find out !
" We 've created history tonight , we are off to the World Cup final " Veteran New Zealand cricket commentator Bryan Waddle speaks from the heart at Eden Park. # NZvSA
Check out all the 'Selfie Fun ' that was taking place around Eden Park yesterday ! Can you spot the celebrity ? While the action was tense on the pitch , fans were having plenty of fun off it as New Zealand qualified for the Final ! # NZvSA
Australia and India have been busy training in Sydney this week ahead of Thursday 's semi-final at the SCG ! Who are you tipping ? Australia or India ?
Who will join New Zealand in the World Cup final at the MCG ?
" It 's anybody 's game " Which semi-final is Sourav Ganguly referring too ? WATCH to find out ! # NZvSA
With just four teams left at # cwc15 , who are YOU backing to lift the trophy at the MCG on 29 March ? Show your true colours by sharing the picture of the team you support with its hashtag ! # GOGOLD # BACKTHEBLACKCAPS # WONTGIVEITBACK # PROTEAFIRE
What will it take to stop the tears from New Zealand 1992 World Cup squad members Gavin Larsen and Rod Latham ? WATCH to find out !
Will we hear this chant again tomorrow when # NZvSA clash ? LISTEN as fans in Wellington chant Martin Guptill 's name during his record double-century against West Indies .
" I ca n't split it - it 's a fifty-fifty game " Former New Zealand pace bowler Simon Doull talks about the two semi-final contests. Do you agree with his predictions ? # cwc15
Luke Ronchi : " It was amazing to see Guptill hit the way he did " BLACKCAPS star Luke Ronchi talks about an amazing day in Wellington and looks forward to the Semi Final. # NZvWI
Have you got your # cwc15 fan gear and merchandise yet ? If not , swing by the massive new superstore at the MCG ! Open 10am-4pm every day until the Final. For any purchase over $ 100 this weekend you will receive a Gatorade Towel and Bottle for FREE ! Come on down and make sure you are ready to support your team during the finals ! The Superstore is located between Gate 2 and 3 .
The semi-final line-ups are COMPLETE. Who will progress to the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup final ?
All Blacks superstar Conrad Smith won the Rugby World Cup back in 2011 and thinks the BLACKCAPS can repeat the dose at # cwc15 ! WATCH to find out his thoughts on today 's # NZvWI knockout clash !
Check out the massive new superstore at the MCG ! Open 10am-4pm every day until the Final , it is stocked with all the very best official # cwc15 fan gear and merchandise. If you make a purchase over $ 100 this weekend , you will receive a Gatorade towel and bottle for FREE !
Who is Sanjay Manjrekar picking for today 's HUGE # AUSvPAK knockout clash ? WATCH to find out who he is tipping to make it all the way to the final at the MCG on 29 March ! Do you agree ?
India moved one step closer at the MCG last night. Who will they face in the semi-finals - Australia or Pakistan ?
Do you agree ? Fans at # INDvBAN predict who they think will be in the # cwc15 final on 29 March 2015 ! Now you 've heard their opinion , who do YOU think will make the final ?
South Africa is the first team to qualify for the Semi Finals but which three teams will join them ? # cwc15
While Sri Lanka and South Africa battle it out for a Semi Final spot in Sydney , India has been hard at work preparing for tomorrow 's Quarter Final showdown with Bangladesh at the MCG. Who is your pick to win the # INDvBAN match at the 'G ' ?
The rain has stopped and the covers are off. Match Officials have inspected the pitch and play at the Sydney Cricket Ground ( SCG ) will resume at 3 : 45pm local time and the match will remain a 50 over match .
Covers coming on at the SCG at nearly the 9th Over. We 'll keep you updated when they come off again as the showers are expected to pass
Hobbiton Movie Set Cricket Cup , Matamata , Waikato , New Zealand , Monday 9 March 2015. Photo : Stephen Barker/Barker Photography. Â © H3/Hamilton City Council
Ireland has received a traditional Maori welcome to Hamilton ahead of its game against India at Seddon Park on 10 March .
Tim Southee : " We love playing in front of a packed house. " WATCH as BLACKCAPS pace spearhead Tim Southee talks about the atmosphere at Eden Park for the AUSvNZ clash and his expectations for the next match against Afghanistan in Napier. # cwc15
WATCH : We caught up with former Australia all-rounder Tom Moody about Australia 's chances at # cwc15 and his favourite World Cup venue .
It 's a scorcher at the WACA and what does Shane Warne think you should do if you win the toss ? WATCH to find out ! # AUSvAFG
Shane Warne : Weekly Corner with Cricket Legends Part Two. In the second of a six part video Q&A series with some of the world 's leading cricketers , we chat to the 1999 ICC Cricket World Cup Winning legend , Shane Warne .
Adam Gilchrist : " It 's an even competition " Ahead of tomorrow 's # AUSvAFG clash , former Australian great Adam Gilchrist chatted to us about Australia 's # cwc15 chances and his thoughts on the pivotal all-rounders position in Australia 's final XI .
# cwc15 is just two weeks old but has already brought us so many GREAT moments ! What is your favourite moment so far ?
" New Zealand are a big hope " Former Australia great Matthew Hayden talks about New Zealand 's chances at # cwc15 .
CATCH up on all the great action from # ENGvSL and # PAKvZIM with # CWCDaily !
" Keep Rallying " Darren Sammy has a special message for West Indies fans across the world ! # cwc15
" India are always a darkhorse " Hear what Former Australia fast bowler Michael Kasprowicz thinks about India 's chances at # cwc15 .
It 's all happening at the Gabba where Zimbabwe has Pakistan 134-5 after 35 overs ! Follow LIVE here : bit/ly/cwc15-23
Pakistan is batting against Zimbabwe at the Gabba and after four overs is already in a spot of bother at 4-2 ! FOLLOW LIVE : bit/ly/cwc15-23
It is going to be a World Cup blockbuster when # cwc15 hosts Australia and New Zealand square off in Auckland tomorrow ! WATCH to see what happened when World Cup legends from Australia and New Zealand played out a game of cricket on Auckland Harbour Bridge ! Who is your pick to win the # AUSvNZ match ?
# CWCDaily becomes the Gayle Show ! CATCH up on Chris Gayle 's record breaking innings and find out who some of the biggest # cwc15 stars think is the dark horse of the tournament !
Which player would Mitchell Johnson , Kevin O'Brien and David Warner all pick in their # CWCFantasy team ? WATCH # CWCDaily to find out and catch up on all the highlights from the # ENGvSCO clash !
MUST WATCH : Catch up on the all action from the blockbuster South Africa-India clash and the close-run Sri Lanka-Afghanistan contest with # CWCDaily !
CATCH up on West Indies blazing victory over Pakistan and find out all there is to know about South African superstar Hashim Amla with # CWCDaily !
Nine days into the ICC Cricket World Cup , here 's how things stand in Pool A and Pool B. Which teams will make the quarter-finals ? # cwc15
WATCH : Catch up on all the record-breaking highlights of New Zealand 's demolition of England with # CWCDaily ! Also in today 's edition , hear from some of the tournament 's biggest stars on who they think is favourite to lift the trophy on 29 March !
" He is the complete package " Sir Richard Hadlee on Tim Southee. What does New Zealand 's greatest ever bowler think about Tim Southee 's record-breaking 7-33 performance against England yesterday ? WATCH to find out !
Windies Cricket fans will enjoy this one ! WATCH as Pakistan Cricket Team makes the worst start in ODI history
HISTORY was made at # cwc15 yesterday when Afghanistan made its World Cup debut against Bangladesh. CATCH up on the historic moment and much more with # CWCDaily !
WATCH : What does BLACKCAPS superstar Brendon McCullum think makes a GREAT ODI player ? Watch # CWCDaily to find out and get the low-down on Cricket Scotland 's stirring performance against New Zealand in Dunedin ! # NZvSCO
MUST WATCH ! Get the inside scoop on Cricket Ireland 's stunning win over Windies Cricket - including fan and player reaction - in the # CWCDaily ! # WIvIRE # cwc15
In the first of a six part video Q&A series with some of the world 's leading cricketers , we chat to the 1999 ICC Cricket World Cup Winning legend , Official Shane Warne
Be in to WIN a double-pass to see BLACKCAPS take on Sri Lanka Cricket in the Opening Match of # cwc15 at Hagley Oval on Saturday 14 February ! To enter , share this post and tell us what you are most looking forward to about the Opening Event. The FREE Opening Event takes place this Thursday at 6.30pm at North Hagley Park , Christchurch and features performances from musical superstars Hayley Westenra , SOL3 MIO , Shapeshifter and Ginny Blackmore. Note this competition is only open to New Zealand residents and transport to Christchurch and accommodation is not included. The winner of the double-pass will be drawn from all valid entries as at 10am on Wednesday. For those unable to attend the Opening Event in person , you can catch the broadcast LIVE on Prime and Sky Sports 3 from 8.30pm on Thursday .
INDIA fans in Adelaide : make sure you head down to Adelaide Oval for the FREE India team public presentation ! From 5pm at the Adelaide CWC Fanzone on the Southern Plaza of Adelaide Oval there will be food , vans , entertainment , music , Bollywood dancers , face painting , CWC merchandise and other activities will be on offer in the Fanzone area. Head along for the chance to show your support for the team as they make an appearance on stage !
There were plenty of bats signed and photographs taken when New Zealand attended its # cwc15 pre-event media day in Christchurch today. Check out the exclusive pictures here !
With one week to # cwc15 , take a behind the scenes look at these exclusive pictures as South Africa prepare for the World Cup .
WATCH ! In 7 days , the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 begins at Hagley Oval when BLACKCAPS take on Sri Lanka Cricket in a blockbuster opening match. Later that same day , the tournament begins in Australia when traditional rivals Australian Cricket Team and England Cricket meet at the Melbourne Cricket Ground ( MCG ) . Do you think the host-nations can take out the opening matches ?
WATCH : " Hey bro , it would be hard case if you got in behind us against the world 's best ! " What do you think of these kiwi accents as Cricket Ireland , Cricket Scotland , United Arab Emirates national cricket team and Afghanistan Cricket Board ( ACB ) ask for your support down under for # cwc15 !
Are you ready to play the official ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Fantasy League Game ? Launching in the next 24 hours , you will have the chance to play selector and lead your team to glory !
COMING SOON ! The official ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Fantasy League ! Become manager , selector and coach of your own CWC fantasy team and go in to win exclusive # cwc15 prizes. Launching next week !
Are you one of the 100 Greatest fans ? # cwc15
The BLACKCAPS & Sri Lanka Cricket wo n't be the only stars on display at Hagley Oval tomorrow , with some special guests from the past making an appearance during the innings break. Look out for 1992 World Cup stars Chris Harris and Mark Greatbatch. Here 's what happened last time 'Harry ' and 'Paddy ' were in Christchurch together !
Are you ready ? The ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 begins in just 50 days ! Let us know who you think will be in the final at the Melbourne Cricket Ground ( MCG ) on 29 March 2015 .
We wish all those celebrating , a very Merry Christmas
Are you getting excited ? There are just 70 days until # cwc15 begins ! WATCH our official TV commercial here and let us know what you are most looking forward too about # cwc15 !
The # cwctrophytour visited The Real South Australia & the Angaston Cricket Club # 408 # 63notout # putoutyourbats
Vale Phillip Hughes. # putoutyourbats # 63notout
The Local Organising Committee of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 joins the Australian cricket community in extending our deepest sympathies to the Hughes family following the passing of Phillip this afternoon .
CHECK OUT this sneak-peek of the brand-new # cwc15 opening venue Hagley Oval - in Christchurch & Canterbury NZ. Who will win when BLACKCAPS take on Sri Lanka Cricket in the opening ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 match on 14 February 2015 ?
What is Shaun Tait up to with the CWC Trophy ? Watch this space tomorrow to find out ! # cwc15
Take a look at what our friends in the East Pacific have made... Who do you think performs the best off the field ?
Just two hours left to VOTE for # JustJones as the greatest ICC Cricket World Cup moment :
Want to know how New Zealand and Australia legends pulled off the ultimate game of backyard cricket ? WATCH the behind the scenes video from Visit Auckland as ICC Cricket World Cup winners Andy Bichel and Damien Fleming take on BLACKCAPS stars Stephen Fleming and Chris Harris from the top of the Auckland Harbour Bridge ! # cwc15
Want to know what it 's like to soar among the clouds with the ICC Cricket World Cup Trophy ? WATCH this video from Western Australia as the # cwctrophytour took to the skies with Skydive Jurien Bay yesterday ! What adventure would you like to see the trophy end up on next ? # cwc15
Have you VOTED on our greatest moments countdown yet ? CHECK out number 95 below and make sure you help us to find the greatest World Cup moment EVER !
If you are in Hamilton today , get down to Seddon Park to get your trophy moment as the # cwctrophytour hits town ! WATCH the video below to get a taste of what to expect ! # cwc15
There 's only a couple of hours left to vote on # LeverocksLeap as one of the great World Cup moments. WATCH the moment below , and stay peeled for number 98 to be released soon ! # cwc15
Check out the celebration in Visit Auckland today to mark 100 days until the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015. Current and former BLACKCAPS joined together to mark the milestone and the # cwctrophytour got underway. WATCH below and let us know which # cwc15 match you are most looking forward too in New Zealand .
The countdown is on ! 100 days until ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 begins. Follow the celebrations across social media today by using # cwc15 !
It 's 100 days to # cwc15 and the fun has begun in Auckland ! WATCH the video below to see which four cricketing legends caught up for a quick game of cricket in an interesting place ! What are you most looking forward to about the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 ?
Tomorrow marks 100 days to go to the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 and we are almost ready to celebrate ! Have a sneak peek of what to expect in Auckland , New Zealand tomorrow. # cwc15
They 're coming... # cwc15
Two global icons met at the Adelaide Oval this weekend. The Rolling Stones took a break from rehearsing to pursue their other passion - cricket ! Front man Mick Jagger and drummer Charlie Watts were given a private tour of the Bradman Museum by Sir Don Bradman â € ™ s son John and were introduced to the ICC Cricket World Cup trophy. Both men are hoping that the England Cricket team will be lifting the trophy for the first time after the final at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on March 29 next year .
Check out the coverage from the # cwc15 net bowler launch in Brisbane yesterday. Former Cricket Australia great Matthew Hayden was on hand to test out some of the potential net bowlers at Allan Border Field .
Happy 36th birthday to Indian Cricket Team star Virender Sehwag. In 22 ICC Cricket World Cup matches , Sehwag has scored 843 runs at an average of 38.32. How important is Sehwag to India â € ™ s chances at # cwc15 ?
Can Team India Retain the World Cup ? # WorldCup # ICC # India # TeamIndia # MSDhoni
Whatever
Bangladesh 's # RubelHossain Bailed in Rape Case , to Play # WorldCup
After 17-Ball 50 vs South Africa , Chris Gayle Says West Indies on Right Track Ahead of World Cup
