International Cricket Council President Mustafa Kamal Resigns International Cricket Council President Mustafa Kamal Resigns International Cricket Council president Mustafa Kamal was upset that he was not allowed to present the World Cup trophy to champions Australia. N. Srinivasan did the honours . Last updated on Wednesday , 01 April , 2015 14 : 18 IST Total Shares Mustafa Kamal resigned as ICC President © AFP International Cricket Council president , Mustafa Kamal has resigned from his post today . " I resign right at this moment. I am no longer ICC president , " he told reporters in the Bangladeshi capital Dhaka . Kamal announced his resignation on Wednesday , accusing colleagues within the game 's global body of acting " unlawfully " . " The main reason for my resignation is that I ca n't work with those who can act unconstitutionally and unlawfully , " he told reporters in Dhaka . " I am just sending my resignation to the ICC...I was not allowed to work in line with the ICC constitution and I can not work with them beyond the ICC constitution , " he told in a crowded press conference at the Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport at Dhaka today . " These type of people should be away from cricket , these kind of people are polluting the game. Otherwise cricket will be spoilt. It is my earnest request to the ICC to revisit these things and people should research why I have resigned , " he added . Even since Bangladesh lost to India in the 2015 World Cup quarterfinals , Kamal was upset after a controversial no-ball incident that allowed Rohit Sharma to score a decisive century. He openly alleged the ICC of favouring with India. ( Bangladesh to Challenge India Over Controversial Rohit Sharma Ton ) Kamal also stormed off during the World Cup final game at Melbourne when he was not allowed to present the trophy to the champions. N. Srinivasan , the ICC chairman did the honours. As per convention , it is the president who hands over the trophy to the winning captain . After the trophy snub , Kamal had spoken to local television channels in Bangladesh and claimed " My rights were dishonoured. After I go back home , I will let the whole world know what 's happening in ICC. I will let the whole world know about those guys who are doing these mischievous things. " Previously , after the no-ball fiasco in the India-Bangladesh semifinal , Kamal had said , " " There was no quality in the umpiring. It looked like they took the field after it ( the outcome ) was pre-arranged. " " As the ICC president , whatever I have to say I will say it in next meeting. It could happen that maybe I will resign , " Kamal said in comments aired on Bangladeshi television . He also said that the ICC had become the Indian Cricket Council , " I can not represent the Indian Cricket Council. If someone has imposed a result on us , in that case no one can accept it. " The ICC reacted vehemently and rejected Kamal 's criticism of the umpiring during Bangladesh 's World Cup quarterfinal loss to India by calling his outburst as " unfortunate " and " baseless " . " The ICC has noted Mr Mustafa Kamal 's comments , which are very unfortunate but made in his personal capacity. As an ICC President , he should have been more considerate in his criticism of ICC match officials , whose integrity can not be questioned , " ICC CEO Dave Richardson said in a statement . " The no-ball decision was a 50-50 call. The spirit of the game dictates that the umpire 's decision is final and must be respected. Any suggestion that the match officials had " an agenda " or did anything other than perform to the best of their ability are baseless and are refuted in the strongest possible terms , " Richardson added . Story first published on : Wednesday , 01 April 2015 12 : 01 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
