World Cup : Pakistan Clinch Thrilling Win Over South Africa World Cup : Pakistan Clinch Thrilling Win Over South Africa Total Shares Pakistan clinched a thrilling 29-run win over South Africa at the World Cup on Saturday to put themselves on course for the quarter-finals. ( All AFP and Getty Images ) Chasing just 232 to win under the Duckworth-Lewis method at Eden Park in Auckland , South Africa , who would have been assured of a quarter-final slot had they won , were bowled out for 202 despite captain AB de Villiers ' valiant 77 . Rahat Ali grabbed a career-best three for 40 , with fellow left-arm seamers Mohammad Irfan ( three for 52 ) and Wahab Riaz ( three for 45 ) as South Africa were dismissed in 33.3 overs in a game which ended in a torrential downpour . The result left South Africa and Pakistan both on six points and well-placed for the quarter-finals . Pakistan had suffered a trademark batting collapse following two rain-breaks in Auckland and were dismissed for just 222 , having been 92 for one and 156 for three . The match was twice held up for rain and the second stoppage did little for Pakistan 's fragile confidence as they lost five wickets for the addition of just 25 runs . Skipper Misbah-ul-Haq top scored with 56 off 86 balls -- his fourth half-century in five matches at this World Cup and the 42nd of his career. Shahid Afridi added a brisk 22. Sarfraz Ahmed hit 49 before he was run out and veteran Younis Khan hit 37 . Fast bowler Dale Steyn led a disciplined South Africa bowling performance with three for 30 and also held a brilliant , flying catch to get rid of Ahmed Shehzad . Fellow seamer Kyle Abbott took two for 45 despite being expected to be dropped to accommodate a returning Vernon Philander . When they batted , South Africa lost out-of-form opener Quinton de Kock for a second ball duck which followed scores of 7 , 7 , 12 and 1 . But Hashim Amla and Faf du Plessis comfortably put on 67 for the second wicket before Pakistan sensationally lived up to South Africa coach Russell Domingo 's pre-match assessment of the 1992 champions ' " predictable unpredictability " . Sarfraz Ahmed claimed a record-equalling six catches behind the stumps and was named man-of-the-match . " I am very thankful to the world and Pakistan for this opportunity , " said Sarfraz , who replaced Nasir Jamshed at the top of the order. " This is my World Cup debut , but Mushtaq Ahmed ( one of the team 's coaching staff ) encouraged me and told me to go out and enjoy myself. " South Africa captain AB de Villiers hit a brilliant 58-ball 77 with five sixes and seven boundaries but failed to stop Pakistan from registering their third win in five matches -- and their first victory over the Proteas in all World Cups . Leave a comment
