World Cup : Team India Prepares to Powder Proteas World Cup : Team India Prepares to Powder Proteas Total Shares On a high after defeating Pakistan in their opening World Cup 2015 match , the Indians are ready for an encore against South Africa . The team may have never defeated the Proteas in World Cups but there 's no rush like the rush after being rivals. The momentum may just propel the Men in Blue towrds more glory Down Under. ( All images courtesy AFP ) Captain MS Dhoni was seen swinging his imposing willow. Reports from Down Under revealed he has asked Team Director Ravi Shastri to help him polish his famed finishing skills . Dhoni will need to bat explosively against a challenging South African bowling attack . The Indian skipper , on his day , can dismantle any bowling attack regardless of its reputation . Dhoni 's deputy is no shy guy when it comes to lashing out either . On the back of a century against Pakistan , Virat Kohli will be hungry to score big once again . A solid player of spin , Kohli would be looking to target Imran Tahir in particular . A beat skipped ! A bouncer tests Kohli during the training session . Bouncers would be the order of the day when South Africa bowlers take on India but if this training session is anything to go by , the defending champions are ready . And just in case it went un-noticed , Kohli has a new haircut ! Much of India 's batting display would also depend on opener Shikhar Dhawan. After a rickety time Down Under , the Delhi batsman hit a confident fifty against Pakistan and would look to add more to his tally . If Dhawan can fire - whether India bats first or chases - his team can look for their first win in World Cups against South Africa . A casual-looking Suresh Raina takes a stroll. Of course , he can afford to chill as he got back into form with a sublime half-century against Pakistan in India 's previous match . Overall , the mood in the Indian camp is upbeat and there 's no reason why South Africa should n't take the defending champions seriously . Leave a comment
