N. Srinivasan , Meiyappan , Raj Kundra , Sundar Raman Named in IPL Scam Report ; BCCI Puts AGM on Hold N. Srinivasan , Meiyappan , Raj Kundra , Sundar Raman Named in IPL Scam Report ; BCCI Puts AGM on Hold N. Srinivasan 's future in BCCI hangs in balance after Supreme Court reveals his name in Justice Mudgal 's probe report Last updated on Friday , 14 November , 2014 22 : 30 IST Total Shares Rajasthan Royals co-owner Raj Kundra and former IPL CEO Sundar Raman are among 13 who were investigated by the Supreme Court-appointed inquiry panel for corruption in IPL . © NDTV The Supreme Court on Friday disclosed the names of Rajasthan Royals co-owner Raj Kundra and former Indian Premier League CEO Sundar Raman among 13 who were investigated by the court-appointed inquiry panel for corruption in the cash-rich T20 competition. So far , the court had revealed the names of BCCI president-in-exile N. Srinivasan and his son-in-law Gurunath Meiyappan. All four will be served notices to explain their standpoint. The next hearing will be on November 24. ( Ten Top Developments of the IPL Scam ) On Friday , the judges said : “ We have the seen the report. It does suggest some misdemeanour. We can ’ t withhold the report. For the present , we will keep the players out and will disclose only the non-players. " The judges had accidentally named three players but later asked the media to " act responsibly , " and withhold their identities . The Supreme Court is examining a probe report submitted by a panel headed by retired judge Justice Mukul Mudgal. The panel had submitted its second and final report to the Supreme Court on November 3. The first hearing was on November 10 , during which the special bench called the case as " high voltage " and was reluctant to give N.Srinivasan a clean chit before the probe was over . The Supreme Court had revealed the names of N. Srinivasan and his son-in--law Meiyappan when Justice Mudgal submitted his first report in February this year. Srinivasan was stood down as BCCI president till the IPL probe was over. Meiyappan , who was the team principal of Chennai Super Kings , was charged for betting and sharing team information . It is not clear whether Srinivasan will be able to contest the BCCI elections. The Board AGM , which was scheduled on November 20 , has once again been deferred by four weeks. The Board AGM is normally held before September 30 every year and this is the first time in its history that it has been put off twice . Today is a day of momentous proportion. Finally the # money power and # mafia power are no match to honorable Supreme Court. Truth prevails — Lalit Kumar Modi ( @ LalitKModi ) November 14 , 2014 Srinivasan , currently ICC chairman , is seeking another term as Board chief. According to reports , former BCCI president Sharad Pawar is keen to contest and Friday 's events could have far-reaching consequences on the elections. This is East Zone 's turn to nominate a president and till Wednesday , Srinivasan apparently had the support of at least four of the six units . Story first published on : Friday , 14 November 2014 14 : 38 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
