IPL 2015 : Yuvraj Singh Happy to Play for Delhi Daredevils Under Gary Kirsten IPL 2015 : Yuvraj Singh Happy to Play for Delhi Daredevils Under Gary Kirsten Yuvraj Singh was bought by the Delhi Daredevils for Rs. 16 crore in the IPL 2015 auction on Monday . Last updated on Monday , 16 February , 2015 16 : 33 IST Total Shares File photo : Yuvraj Singh Yuvraj Singh , who on Monday became Indian Premier League 's costliest ever buy by going for a whopping Rs 16 crore to Delhi Daredevils , said that he was happy to be playing again under former India coach Gary Kirsten. ( IPL Auctions updates ) " I was sleeping when the auction was going on. I came to know of this only when some guests came to my house and told me about the good news. The best part is , I am going to play under Kirsten. I had my best years under him and hopefully I can repeat that with Delhi , " Yuvraj said after he was bought for the record sum at the IPL 8 player auction in Bangalore . Kirsten , who was present at the auction along with top team officials , said that his franchise had come prepared to go all out bidding for Yuvraj . " You want to know that throughout the season you have various combinations to fall back on. I think we learned from last year that if we want a player we need to push hard for him. Hence we were prepared to go all the way with Yuvraj and it 's great for the player as well , " the South African said . " Yuvraj can add good value to the side. We do n't know , it 's always the thing with the auction. At last year 's auction we thought we had a good team. Tough space the auction , trying to go on with the players who think can make a difference , " he added . Asked who will captain the Daredevils now that the side also have current Sri Lanka skipper Angelo Mathews who was bought for Rs 7.5 crore , Kirsten said the leadership issue will be decided later . " Havent made a decision. Mathews does come into the mix as captain. We kad looked for players that we feel can be senior players in their international side , leaders in their own right and Angelo will add to that , " he said . Story first published on : Monday , 16 February 2015 15 : 25 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
