Kevin Pietersen to Skip IPL 2015 to Revive England Career Kevin Pietersen to Skip IPL 2015 to Revive England Career Kevin Pietersen , bought by Sunrisers Hyderabad in the latest player auction , will miss the group stage of the upcoming Indian Premier League 2015 and play County cricket to revive his international career . Last updated on Tuesday , 24 March , 2015 18 : 08 IST Total Shares File photo of Kevin Pietersen in action in the Indian Premier League . © AFP Sacked England batsman Kevin Pietersen on Tuesday was released by his Indian Premier League franchise Sunrisers Hyderabad for the entire first phase of the tournament , beginning on April 8. ( David Warner to captain Sunrisers Hyderabad in IPL 2015 ) The agreement allows Pietersen to miss the Sunrisers ' entire league fixtures , but will see him recalled should the team reach the knockout stages of the competition -- which commence on May 19 and finish with the final on May 24. ( How Sunrisers excelled at IPL 2015 player auctions ) The move means he can now join a county side -- with Surrey believed to be the front-runners for his services -- as he steps up his quest for an England recall in the upcoming Ashes series. ( IPL 2015 : KXIP make 'strategic additions ' ) Pietersen , with 104 Test caps , is a four-time Ashes winner and is also England 's highest-ever run scorer in all formats. But he was sacked from the team after running into repeated confrontations with his teammates and coaches . " I 'm hugely grateful for all the support and understanding I 've received from everyone at the Sunrisers and the IPL , " he said in a statement on Tuesday . " My focus is now very much on the upcoming season in England and I 'm absolutely determined to score as many runs as possible . " I 've never made any secret of my overwhelming desire to once again represent England and I 'm going to do everything in my power to earn a recall to the international set-up , " the right-handed batsman said . Pietersen expressed his desire to score runs domestically in order to give himself a fighting chance to earn a recall to the national team . " To once again put on that England shirt would be a privilege and an honour , but now I have to focus on performing domestically and give myself the best possible chance of meriting selection , " he said . Story first published on : Tuesday , 24 March 2015 16 : 58 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
