Indian Premier League : Kolkata Knight Riders ' Kuldeep Yadav Confident of Reviving Chinaman Bowling Indian Premier League : Kolkata Knight Riders ' Kuldeep Yadav Confident of Reviving Chinaman Bowling Kuldeep Yadav , 20 , is looking to play a key role for Kolkata Knight Riders in the eighth edition of the Indian Premier League . Last updated on Friday , 03 April , 2015 14 : 45 IST Total Shares File photo of Kuldeep Yadav New Delhi : Chinaman bowlers are becoming a rarity in India and world cricket , but Kolkata Knight Riders spinner Kuldeep Yadav is confident that more people will take it up after seeing him perform even though his craft is " very tough " . With only South Africa 's Paul Adams and Australia 's Brad Hogg coming to mind when the art of chinaman bowling -- left-arm wrist spin -- is discussed in world cricket , Kuldeep , who started off as a medium-pacer and only shifted to spin bowling on the insistence of his coach Kapil Pandey at the Kanpur Cricket Academy , believes the craft will certainly grow. ( Narine Undergoes Bowling Tests in Chennai ) " Not many players try Chinaman bowling. I hope people give it a go after seeing me. Some say that it 's very tough , yes , tough it is but I would say 'practice makes the man perfect'. I believe the world will see a lot of chinaman bowlers in the near future , " Kuldeep told PTI in an interview . West Indies ' Sunil Narine played a big part in KKR becoming champions last season and Kuldeep is happy to share the dressing room with the impactful off-spinner . " Sunil Narine is no doubt among our premier spinners and a senior spinner in the team. I feel really honoured to be bowling with him. It also acts as a challenge to lift your game when a bowler at the other end is bowling well. We have bonded well as spinners of the team and have started to understand each other a lot , " Kuldeep said . The 20-year-old also opined that spin bowling plays a big part in T20 cricket . " It depends on the conditions , whether we heavily rely on the spinners or not. If we are playing an away game and it is a turning wicket then yes , we rely on our spinners , who as you must have seen , are top class. So if the opposition gets off to a quick start then the onus falls on the spinners to do the containing act and get wickets as well . " So it always helps to good spinners in the team. In Kolkata , the ball comes a little slower onto the bat and there the spinners also come into play , " he said . After making waves in the UAE when he became the first Indian to take a hat-trick in the ICC Under-19 World Cup , Kuldeep was bagged by KKR in 2014 February auctions post his two-year stint with Mumbai Indians . The youngster is definitely looking to break into the bigger league . " It all depends on one 's performance. We will just have to wait and see. Every tournament , every match is crucial in terms of getting forward in my career , " he said . Praising skipper Gautam Gambhir for backing youngsters , Kuldeep said he is blessed to play under the Indian opener . " I feel happy and blessed to be playing under Gauti bhai. He is a very good human being. He not only backs the team but also supports all the youngsters in the side. I feel lucky to be playing under a leader who trusts your abilities . " Even when I was not a part of KKR , he supported me and now ofcourse he keeps backing me to do well , " he said . Kuldeep also feels great to have the 'Sultan of Swing ' Wasim Akram as the bowling coach of KKR . " I share a great rapport with Wasim bhai. I try and grasp whatever I can from his wealth of experience. I keep talking to him on the field , talking about his various experiences in his playing days. He is always happy to share his knowledge . " The talk is not really centered around bowling in particular , but he tells about how he would react to a particular situation and that really helps , " he said . Coming into IPL-8 on the back of a good domestic season , Kuldeep rued missing the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament knockouts but is happy to take the momentum forward into the popular T20 league . " Look Syed Mushtaq Ali is a perfect lead up to the IPL as it gives the players a good T20 feel before the mega league kicks off. Yes , the spacing between the two tournaments can be improved but I guess the scheduling is such that it gives little scope for organisers to do something about it . " The Ranji Trophy ends and then Syed Mushtaq Ali starts and then there is IPL. But I am happy about it and enjoying every bit of it. " Knowing the importance of wielding the willow at the right time in the shortest format of the game , Kuldeep insists that he is working hard to be a handy batsman whenever the team requires his services . " Obviously , batting plays a big part in T20 cricket. I am certainly improving my batting skills by the day , Recently I hit an 8-ball 20 not out in Syed Mushtaq Ali. Though in T20 cricket , the No.8 or 9 does n't get much batting and if your No.9 is at the crease then it means the team is in trouble , " he signed off . Story first published on : Friday , 03 April 2015 13 : 36 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
