Kings XI Punjab Start IPL Preparations With Camp in Pune Kings XI Punjab Start IPL Preparations With Camp in Pune Players like South Africa 's Beuren Hendricks , India 's Parvinder Awana , Wriddhiman Saha , Anureet Singh , Shardul Thakur , Shivam Sharma , Nikhil Naik and Yogesh Gowalkar will be present at the camp . Last updated on Friday , 03 April , 2015 15 : 28 IST Total Shares File photo : Sanjay Bangar helped Kings XI Punjab reach their maiden IPL final this year as their head coach . © BCCI Pune : Kings XI Punjab players are all set to start their preparations for the eighth edition of the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) with a camp at the Maharashtra Cricket Association ( MCA ) International Stadium in Pune on Friday . Players like South Africa 's Beuren Hendricks , India 's Parvinder Awana , Wriddhiman Saha , Anureet Singh , Shardul Thakur , Shivam Sharma , Nikhil Naik and Yogesh Gowalkar will be present at the camp . These players will be joined by the likes of hard-hitting batsman Virender Sehwag , Manan Vohra , Murali Vijay and other international players from Saturday onwards . According to a release , Punjab 's head coach Sanjay Bangar , fielding coach R. Sridhar and bowling coach Joe Dawes will be present at the ground to mentor the players . The team finished runners-up after losing to champions Kolkata Knight Riders in the seventh edition of the tournament . Bangar said with a balanced team and a positive coaching staff the team will aim to keep their winning momentum going . " Last year was a good season for us and we would want to carry on the winning spree this season as well. We have a well balanced team and the entire coaching staff is positive about the team 's performance , " Bangar said . " As a part of this camp , we will focus towards working on the strengths and improvement areas of the players and look forward to a great tournament , " the coach said . Kings XI Punjab will play their first match against Rajasthan Royals in Pune on April 10 . Story first published on : Friday , 03 April 2015 14 : 24 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
