IPL 2015 : Experience of Managing Indian Pacers Will Help RCB Stint , says Bharat Arun IPL 2015 : Experience of Managing Indian Pacers Will Help RCB Stint , says Bharat Arun Bharat Arun will join the likes of Daniel Vettori , Allan Donald and batting/fielding guru Trent Woodhill in masterminding the Virat Kohli-led team 's Indian Premier League ( IPL ) campaign . Last updated on Saturday , 04 April , 2015 02 : 13 IST Total Shares File photo of Royal Challengers Bangalore in IPL . © BCCI New Royal Challengers Bangalore ( RCB ) bowling coach Bharat Arun said on Friday that his experience of managing the Indian cricket team 's pacers in the World Cup gives him immense confidence of providing a creditable performance in his newest job. ( Complete IPL 2015 coverage | Table | Pics | Schedule ) Arun will join the likes of Daniel Vettori , Allan Donald and batting/fielding guru Trent Woodhill in masterminding the Virat Kohli-led team 's Indian Premier League ( IPL ) campaign. ( IPL 2015 opening ceremony to be held in Kolkata on April 7 ) Arun was widely praised for the consistent performances of the Indian pacers on their way to the semi-finals where they lost to eventual champions Australia. ( KXIP begin IPL 2015 preparation with camp in Pune ) The experience of bringing the best out of India 's pacers has made him confident abut his abilities. ( DD coach Kirsten admits he was caught off-guard last season ) " You can draw a lot of confidence after working with some of the top players of the world , " he was quoted as saying by RCB 's official website. ( Virat Kohli-led RCB aim to overturn last season 's flop show ) " There is a lot of confidence I will be taking from the Indian job into the IPL. " ( Yuvraj , Zaheer eye national comebacks via IPL ) Time spent with the Indian team has given him experience with RCB players Varun Aaron and Virat Kohli , who he believes will be key players for RCB. ( Ricky Ponting starts new innings as Mumbai Indians coach ) " Virat has an outstanding work ethic , befitting a top athlete in the world. He is extremely passionate about the game. A captain having such an attitude makes it easier for the players to follow him . " He walked-the-talk in Australia. So it would be quite exciting to watch him bring the same attitude into the IPL , " he added . Arun coached RCB team members Vijay Zol and Sarfraz Khan in the Under-19 squad. Several other Indian domestic players are also familiar to him through his days at the National Cricket Academy here . He said it gives him a strong perspective of the current RCB line up 's potential . " The team is pretty well balanced and strong. They have always been front-runners to the title. " Arun said he will start from scratch to help all the bowlers perform to their potential . " I help a player to discover himself more and a player understanding himself better gives him the best chance to succeed , " he said . Story first published on : Friday , 03 April 2015 15 : 01 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
