James Faulkner Keen on Return to Australia Test Team James Faulkner Keen on Return to Australia Test Team Australian all-rounder James Faulkner said his main focus next summer will be first class cricket as he aims to add to the one Test cap he earned way back in 2013 . Last updated on Saturday , 04 April , 2015 15 : 00 IST Total Shares Faulkner ( L ) played a key role in Australia 's World Cup triumph © Getty Images Australia 's World Cup final hero James Faulkner on Saturday said he was n't surprised he missed selection in the Ashes squad but pointed out that his main goal is to get back into the Australian Test squad. ( Rajasthan Royals Pacer Kane Richardson Ruled Out ) The all-rounder said his main focus next summer will be first class cricket as he aims to add to the one Test cap he earned way back in 2013 . " After a few days celebrating with the squad and a couple relaxing in Hobart with friends and family , now my attention turns to the IPL , and getting back into the Australian Test squad - that is my goal now , " Faulkner was quoted as saying by Cricket Australia ( CA ) . The 24-year-old played just three Sheffield Shield matches this summer as he focused predominantly on One-Day International ( ODI ) cricket leading into the World Cup. But he said he would shift his approach next season . " I would like to play Test cricket , that 's the pinnacle , and the path is pretty simple , " he said . " I will have the opportunity to play more Sheffield Shield games for Tasmania next season. I 've just got to make sure I do well with bat and ball and hopefully the rest can take care of itself , " Faulkner said . Faulkner 's one and only Test to date came in the fifth Ashes Test at The Oval in 2013 , where he took six wickets and contributed quick fire innings of 23 and 22 . He will head to India on Sunday to join fellow Australians Shane Watson , Steven Smith and Ben Cutting at Indian Premier League ( IPL ) team Rajasthan Royals . Story first published on : Saturday , 04 April 2015 13 : 52 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
