Indian Premier League : Ricky Ponting Heaps Praise on Rohit Sharma 's Leadership Indian Premier League : Ricky Ponting Heaps Praise on Rohit Sharma 's Leadership Rohit Sharma took over the captaincy of Mumbai Indians from Ricky Ponting midway in the IPL 2013 season. The right-handed India batsman eventually helped the team clinch their first trophy beating Chennai Super Kings . Last updated on Sunday , 05 April , 2015 17 : 11 IST Total Shares Rohit 's captaincy has been spot on : Ponting © BCCI Mumbai : Australia 's two-time World Cup-winning captain and current Mumbai Indians ( MI ) coach Ricky Ponting on Sunday heaped praise on the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) side 's skipper Rohit Sharma , describing his captaincy for the last two seasons as " spot on " . ( Rohit Sharma Set for New Challenge ) Rohit took over the captaincy from Ponting midway in the IPL 2013 season. The right-handed batsman eventually helped the team clinch their first trophy beating Chennai Super Kings by 23 runs at the Eden Gardens in Kolkata. ( Ponting Backs On-field Verbal Duels ) " Rohit 's captaincy has been spot on. In 2013 when we won the title , he took over the captaincy from me and the way he controlled the players on the field is fantastic , " Ponting said at the team 's pre-season press conference here . " He understands the game really well and communicates with the players well. " ( Dravid Urges Players to Remain Vigilant ) Mumbai Indians ' 2015 cricket World Cup playing players like Aaron Finch , Rohit , Corey Anderson , Mitchell McClenaghan and Lasith Malinga come straight into the 20-over format . When asked if the switch in format would affect the players , Ponting said : " These guys are all experienced. They have changed formats before in a matter of days . " We have trained really well and hope they will deliver on the given day. " Speaking on the new inclusion -- Shane Bond as bowling coach , he said , " Having Shane with us will be terrific. Surely he has had great impact specially on the New Zealand bowlers . " Improvement in Trent Boult and Tim Southee is an example. I hope he can have the same impact on some of the younger guys here. " Pointing pointed out that Sri Lanka 's fast bowler Lasith Malinga is best suited to Twenty20 cricket at this point of time . " I believe now where Malinga is in his career , he is best suited to T20 cricket. The skills that he has , the way he uses his slower balls and yorkers in T20 cricket is amazing . " But with just four fielders outside the circle in 50-over cricket , bowlers go for runs nowadays , " the 40-year-old , who represented Australia in 375 One-Day International ( ODI ) , said . With as many as 26 players in the Mumbai squad , Ponting feels it will be difficult to manage such a big group . " It 's difficult -- and there is no doubt about that -- to manage 26 players. It 's a challenge for me and the captain need n't worry about that , " Ponting , who played 168 Test matches for his country , said . Story first published on : Sunday , 05 April 2015 16 : 01 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
