IPL Opener Against KKR a 'Challenge ' , Says Mumbai Indians Coach Ricky Ponting IPL Opener Against KKR a 'Challenge ' , Says Mumbai Indians Coach Ricky Ponting Mumbai Indians take on the defending champions Kolkata Knight Riders at the Eden Gardens in the opening game of the eighth edition of the IPL . Last updated on Sunday , 05 April , 2015 17 : 32 IST Total Shares Playing KKR a big challenge : Ponting Mumbai : © BCCI Mumbai Indians ( MI ) coach Ricky Pointing on Sunday said their first match against defending champions Kolkata Knight Riders ( KKR ) on April 8 will be a big challenge for his team . Mumbai will face 2014 Indian Premier League ( IPL ) champions KKR at the Eden Gardens in Kolkata on Wednesday. ( Ponting Heaps Praise on Rohit Sharma 's Leadership ) " We have got a big challenge ahead against Kolkata on Wednesday. They are the defending champions and are playing at home , " Ponting said at the team 's pre-season press conference here . The 40-year-old said the preparations have been good for the team and the attitude of the players has been spot on. ( Ponting Backs On-field Verbal Duels ) " These few days the preparations have been great and I loved the attitude of the players , it has been spot on. Players have worked hard at the training session , " he said . The former Australia skipper was n't quite successful as a player for KKR and MI in IPL. ( Narine 's Bowling Action Cleared by BCCI ) When asked how big a challenge is this to coach a team in a Twenty20 format , he said , " I have been involved in this format for quite a long time. Last couple of years I have been commentating in T20 cricket back in Australia. " " I am understanding how the game is played. Understanding more and more of the tactical side of the game. I will make sure my players are 100 percent prepared. " With on-field verbal spats being a part and parcel of IPL over the years , the former Australia World Cup-winning captain said it 's a part of the game but players should n't cross the line . " It 's a part of the game. But players do have to understand where the line is and not cross it , " Ponting said . Story first published on : Sunday , 05 April 2015 16 : 22 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
