Indian Premier League : Irfan Pathan Ready to 'Fit Into Any Role ' for Chennai Super Kings Indian Premier League : Irfan Pathan Ready to 'Fit Into Any Role ' for Chennai Super Kings Irfan Pathan was picked by Chennai Super Kings after going unsold in the first session during this year 's auction. Pathan has featured for Kings XI Punjab , Delhi Daredevils and Sunrisers Hyderabad in the previous editions . Last updated on Sunday , 05 April , 2015 23 : 30 IST Total Shares I can do well in the upcoming IPL : Irfan Pathan © BCCI Chennai : Keen to resurrect his fledgling national career , all-rounder Irfan Pathan said that he is ready to fit into any role that his new franchise Chennai Super Kings is going to offer him in IPL-8 . After going unsold in the first session during this year 's auction , Irfan , who last played for India in 2012 World T20 , was lucky to be picked by the Mahendra Singh Dhoni-led CSK. The Baroda southpaw wants to make the most of the opportunity. ( Kohli Hails Royal Challengers Bangalore 's Batting Depth ) " Obviously , the dream is to play for the country again. But at the same time , I should make sure that I go there step by step and that is what I am doing. I did well in the Ranji Trophy. Hope I can do well in the upcoming IPL as well. There are some matches coming up after the IPL season. Sooner or later , I will fulfill my dream. ( Sunrisers Hyderabad Coach Tom Moody Confident of Good Show ) " In 2011 , people talked that it was going to be difficult to make a comeback but I told them that I will make a comeback and I did. I am saying it again that I am going to return in the national team and I am working towards it , " said Irfan . Irfan of course , may face tough competition from other all-rounders in the side. ( T20s Easier for Pacers than ODIs : Ishant Sharma ) " Having many all-rounders is beneficial for the team. I have had a discussion with Stephen Fleming and he gave an idea as to what kind of a role he wants me to play. That is a team talk. For me , I am feeling very confident. It is just a matter of what Dhoni thinks in terms of how he is going to utlise me and how the team wants me to play. I think with the experience that I have I can fit in any role. I just have to be ready mentally , " he said . Having represented Kings XI Punjab , Delhi Daredevils and Sunrisers Hyderabad in the previous editions , Irfan is looking forward to re-unite with Dhoni . " Obviously , it is a new team for me but there are lot of guys in the team that I know them very well. So , I am really excited to play with the most successful team in the IPL so far. And I am really excited to play under Dhoni. Hopefully , the season will be great as I had trained very well having bowled over 150 overs in the Ranji Trophy this season , " he said . " I had played in different teams earlier. Compared to other teams , CSK has a pretty relaxed atmosphere , " he added . Story first published on : Sunday , 05 April 2015 22 : 18 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
