'IPL can Give Big Sums to Actors , but Ca n't Pay for Music ? ' 'IPL can Give Big Sums to Actors , but Ca n't Pay for Music ? ' Just days ahead of the event , the Indian Performing Right Society Limited ( IPRS ) has sent a legal notice to BCCI-IPL and the organisers for failing to pay for music rights for the opening ceremony in Kolkata on Tuesday . Last updated on Monday , 06 April , 2015 10 : 48 IST Total Shares File photo of Anuskha Sharma. Several Bollywood stars like Anushka , Farhan Akhtar , Hrithik Roshan and Shahid Kapoor are expected to perform in IPL 8 's opening ceremony . © BCCI The Indian Premier League ( IPL ) has been making headlines every season and , this time , it finds itself embroiled in a controversy even before the tournament has begun. ( Complete coverage of IPL 8 ) The Indian Performing Right Society Limited ( IPRS ) has sent a legal notice to the IPL , BCCI and the company organising the opening ceremony for allegedly failing to take the licence for the use of music during the event. The notice is dated April 4. ( Also read : Players to watch out for in IPL 2015 ) As a representative body for owners of music , the IPRS says it wants its members to get their due and contends that if the organisers can afford to pay big money to actors and other performers , they should be able to pay for the music being used as well . " A legal notice has been issued to BCCI-IPL , Encompass Events and the venue of the event for not obtaining the licence for their forthcoming IPL opening ceremony in Kolkata on April 7 , " said a source from IPRS . " Our Kolkata office has been trying its best to speak to IPL and Encompass executives , but they are reluctant to take the licence from IPRS for the use of IPRS Members ' musical and literary works . We have been issuing licences for all the IPL opening ceremonies to date and never wanted to obstruct their event but , this time , it seems they are not bothered. Therefore , we will make sure that our members ' royalties are collected from them , " he added . Official speak Speaking to mid-day , Kunal Sareen , vice-president and head ( licensing ) , IPRS , said , " The notice has already been sent. They have been taking the license from us every year and we do n't know what changed this time . Apart from IPL , almost everyone takes the licence. All the people from the music industry are our members. We had approached the organisers , but there has been no communication from them until now , and this is the only way to deal with this unless they pay to buy the licence. " " Our only motive is to ensure that our members get their dues. They can afford to pay large sums of money to actors and other artistes , but they are not willing to pay for the music through which they will be entertaining the audience , " he added . 'Discussion on' IPL Chief Operating Officer Sundar Raman said , " You should speak to Encompass the event agency. " Roshan Abbas , MD of Encompass Events Pvt Ltd , said , " IPRS is in discussion with our team. I am sure the issue will be resolved amicably. " Story first published on : Monday , 06 April 2015 09 : 42 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
