Indian Premier League : MS Dhoni 's Chennai Super Kings Overwhelming Favourites in Global Betting Odds Indian Premier League : MS Dhoni 's Chennai Super Kings Overwhelming Favourites in Global Betting Odds Chennai Super Kings have reached the Indian Premier League final five times and have won the trophy twice. Ahead of IPL 8 , the side has once again emerged favourites to win a third title , according to bookmakers . Last updated on Monday , 06 April , 2015 12 : 26 IST Total Shares Chennai Super Kings have been the most consistent side of the Indian Premier League . © BCCI Kolkata Knight Riders will begin the 2015 edition of Indian Premier League as the defending champions. If global betting odds are an indication though , MS Dhoni 's Chennai Super Kings will begin as firm favourites to lift the title. ( Complete coverage of IPL 8 | Fixtures ) The eight edition of IPL begins from Wednesday with a glitzy opening ceremony at the Eden Gardens planned for a day earlier. While a long list of Bollywood celebrities - including Anushka Sharma , Hritik Roshan and Farhan Akthar -- are expected to perform in the opening ceremony , Chennai players will get maximum attention when cricketing action begins. ( Also read : Players to watch out for in IPL 2015 ) Chennai Super Kings have been given a 22 % chance of winning what would be their third title. Interestingly , Kolkata are also looking to retain the title and achieve glory for a third time. The Gautam Gambhir-led side though has been given only 12 % chance of partying once again this year. ( Also read : KKR smile once again as Narine 's bowling action cleared by BCCI ) The team most likely to win IPL 8 - after Chennai - is Royal Challengers Bangalore. While the team has never won the title before , the Virat Kohli-led side has been given 16 % chance in global odds . Bangalore does boast of power-hitters like Kohli , Jamaican giant Chris Gayle and South Africa captain AB de Villiers but has been known to crack at crucial moments. ( Related : Virat Kohli backs RCB to hit big ) Another team which has never won IPL but remain a force is Kings XI Punjab -- runners up from last year. According to the odds , the side is tied at third with Mumbai Indians - the 2013 champions. Both teams have been given a 14 % chance of emerging victorious in the tournament . The task for Mumbai Indians wo n't be easy though as they face Kolkata in the tournament opener this Wednesday. Action will then shift from Eden Gardens to Chepauk where Chennai will battle Delhi Daredevils - a side least likely to win IPL 8 , according to the odds . Complete list of teams and their odds to win IPL 8 : CSK : 22 %
