Irfan Pathan Eyes National Comeback Via Indian Premier League Irfan Pathan Eyes National Comeback Via Indian Premier League All-rounder Irfan Pathan said that after a good stint in the Ranji Trophy , he is looking forward to performing well in the Indian Premier League . Last updated on Tuesday , 07 April , 2015 08 : 07 IST Total Shares File pic : Irfan Pathan feels he has some years of cricket left in him . © AFP Aiming to resurrect his international career , all-rounder Irfan Pathan said he wants to make the best of the opportunity of playing under the Mahendra Singh Dhoni-led Chennai Super Kings ( CSK ) in the eighth edition of the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) . ( IPL 8 Jamboree Returns ) " Obviously , the dream is to play for the country again. But at the same time , I should make sure that I go there step-by-step and that is what I am doing , " Pathan said on Monday . The 30-year-old said that after a good stint in the Ranji Trophy , he is looking forward to performing well in the Twenty20 tournament . " I did well in Ranji Trophy. Hopefully , I can do well in the IPL as well. There are some matches coming up after the IPL season. Sooner or later , I will fulfil my dream ( of playing for India again ) , " Pathan was quoted as saying by IPLT20.com . " In 2011 , people talked that it was going to be difficult to make a comeback. But I told them that I will make a comeback and I did. I am saying it again that I am going to return to the national team and I am working towards it. " ( Faulkner Backs Ponting 's Views on 'Verbal Duels ' ) CSK is a team filled with some world-class all-rounders , including Dwayne Bravo and Ravindra Jadeja. The left-arm seamer is keen to make his own niche and contribute to the team . " It is just a matter of what Dhoni thinks in terms of how he is going to utlise me and how the team wants me to play. With the experience that I have , I can fit in any role. I just have to be ready mentally , " he said . CSK will be Pathan 's fourth IPL team after Kings XI Punjab , Delhi Daredevils and Sunrisers Hyderabad. However , for him this is no case of an awkward beginning , of having to settle into a new team all over again . " I had played in different teams earlier. Compared to other teams , CSK has a pretty relaxed atmosphere , " Irfan said. ( 'IPL Ca n't Pay for Music ? ' ) The IPL starts on Wednesday when defending champions Kolkata Knight Riders take on Mumbai Indians at the Eden Gardens in Kolkata. CSK play their first match against the Delhi Daredevils at home on Thursday . Story first published on : Tuesday , 07 April 2015 07 : 00 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
