Yuvraj Singh Turns Businessman , to Support Young Entrepreneurs Yuvraj Singh Turns Businessman , to Support Young Entrepreneurs Yuvraj Singh , the costliest player in Indian Premier League 2015 , will float a venture fund that aims to support young entrepreneurs by investing in startups in various sectors . Last updated on Tuesday , 07 April , 2015 13 : 18 IST Total Shares File photo of Yuvraj Singh . © NDTV Out-of-favour India all-rounder Yuvraj Singh is set to start a new innings as a businessman. Yuvraj will become the first Indian cricketer to float a venture fund that aims to support young entrepreneurs. Venture fund is an investment fund that manages money from investors seeking private equity stakes in startup and small and medium-size enterprises with strong growth potential. These investments are generally characterized as high-risk/high-return opportunities . " I had been thinking about this for four-five years. There are a lot of young entrepreneurs with great high-potential ideas and I plan to invest in these startups , to build their brands and companies , " Yuvraj Singh told Economic Times . Yuvraj , India 's World Cup-winning hero four years ago , will invest Rs 50 crore over a period of three to five years in the YouWeCan Ventures fund. The fund is expected to raise around Rs 300 crore from other investors during the period. The left-handed all-rounder is the costliest player in the Indian Premier League . Delhi Daredevils bought him for a whopping Rs 16 crore from Royal Challengers Bangalore , who had paid 14 crore last season . YouWeCan Ventures will fund various sectors like healthcare , sports products , services and fashion , travel and tourism , hospitality and e-commerce. According to reports , they are likely to make their first investment after the eighth edition of Indian Premier League is over. ( 'Yuvraj Singh Deserves Every Penny Spent on Him ' ) Story first published on : Tuesday , 07 April 2015 11 : 49 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
