Cheteshwar Pujara Banks on Yorkshire Stint to Play All Formats Cheteshwar Pujara Banks on Yorkshire Stint to Play All Formats Cheteshwar Pujara was a part of Kings XI Punjab last year but remained unsold at the 2015 Indian Premier League auctions as he failed to attract a bid . Last updated on Tuesday , 07 April , 2015 18 : 56 IST Total Shares Cheteshwar Pujara went unsold in IPL 2015 auctions © BCCI Rajkot : India 's No.3 Test batsman Cheteshwar Pujara , who recently signed a deal with English county club Yorkshire , said on Tuesday he is focusing on improving his game to suit the demands of One-Day Internationals ( ODI ) and Twenty20. ( Players Who will Miss the Action in IPL ) Pujara remained unsold at the 2015 Indian Premier League ( IPL ) auctions as he failed to attract a bid . " I definitely want to play all the formats of this game. I 'm working on improving my game in ODIs and T20s , " Pujara was quoted as saying by espncricinfo.com. ( IPL 8 : New Season , New Teams , Old Superstars ) " I am very confident that I will be able to do so. It 's a matter of time and there are some shots that I 'm working on in the nets , and with more and more practice I think I will be successful. " While his ODI ambitions may take longer to realise , Pujara 's immediate concern will be to revive his Test career . Having established himself as India 's number three , Pujara lost his place in the playing eleven for the final Test of the series against Australia in Sydney after a string of below-par performances . " In Test matches , my start was really good ; there were some phases where I accept that I did n't perform well but it happens , " he said . " If you see a cricketer 's career , nobody 's always successful. You have those up and down phases. If I look at all the series , I did well in South Africa. England was a bad series although I did score in a couple of innings which were really crucial for the team. " The 27-year-old Saurashtra batsman expects to be a different player when he returns from his stint with defending English county champions Yorkshire . " They are challenging conditions and as a batsman you have to accept the challenge. When you score runs in those conditions , you get a different confidence. So , technically you have to be correct. You have to be really focused ; confidence has to be up to the mark , " he said . " In all the aspects of the game you really have to be very careful when you play in English conditions. So , in this way couple of months in Yorkshire will help me , " Pujara said . Story first published on : Tuesday , 07 April 2015 15 : 32 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
