Indian Premier League : Former Women Cricket Stars to Add Glamour to the Commentary Team Indian Premier League : Former Women Cricket Stars to Add Glamour to the Commentary Team Indian Premier League is all about glamour. This time women cricket stars from around the world would bring glamour into the commentary box . Last updated on Tuesday , 07 April , 2015 17 : 34 IST Total Shares File Photo : Isha Guha with Ravi Shastri Mumbai : © Twitter Anjum Chopra , Isa Guha , Lisa Sthalekar and Melanie Jones , four former women cricketers from around the world , will be part of the 26-member strong commentary team that will bring Indian Premier League ( IPL ) 2015 live to global audiences. ( Indian Premier League 2015 : Players to Watch Out For ) This move comes at a time when women are showing keen interest in cricket , IPLT20.com reported on Tuesday . Anjum is a former Indian batsman and captain and has earlier been an in-studio expert for many tournaments over the years. ( Delhi Daredevils Look to Turn the Tables ) Former England fast bowler Isa , has been active in the media with her live commentary stints on radio and TV and as a studio expert . Lisa is an Indian born former Australian all-rounder who has played eight Tests and 125 One-Day-internationals ( ODI ) along with 54 Twenty20 Internationals . Melanie , who hails from Victoria , played five Tests and 61 ODIs for Australia between 1998 and 2003. She also captained Surrey in the English County Championships . The full list of IPL 2015 commentators : Aakash Chopra , David Lloyd , Lisa Sthalekar , Russel Arnold , Alan Wilkins , H.D. Ackerman , Michael Haysman , Sanjay Manjrekar , Anjum Chopra , Harsha Bhogle , Murali Kartik , Scott Styris , Brandon Julian , Ian Bishop , Melanie Jones , Simon Doull , Damien Fleming , Isa Guha , Mpumelelo Mbangwa , Sunil Gavaskar , Daniel Morrison , Kepler Wessel , Ramiz Raja , Damien Martyn , Laxman Sivaramakrishnan , Ravi Shastri . Story first published on : Tuesday , 07 April 2015 16 : 20 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
