IPL 8 : Young Indian Players who Promise to Make a Mark IPL 8 : Young Indian Players who Promise to Make a Mark While a lot of the players come into the IPL after the World Cup , this is also a tournament that 's a great platform for youngsters to impress their national selectors. Coming off strong domestic performances , there are some Indian players who will be hoping to make a mark in this edition of the competition . Last updated on Tuesday , 07 April , 2015 20 : 49 IST Total Shares Karun Nair celebrates his triple ton in Ranji Trophy . © PTI In last season 's Ranji Trophy , Karun Nair made hundreds in the quarter-final , semifinal and the final. In fact it was his winning six that helped Karnataka end their 15-year-wait for a Ranji title. This year he followed it up with a triple ton in the Ranji final against Tamil Nadu , making him one of the most exciting young domestic players to watch out for in IPL 2015. ( KKR are the Best Team : Dean Jones ) The 23-year-old has just two fifties for the Rajasthan Royals , but this year his team will be expecting a ton of runs from the talented right handed opener . KC Cariappa - Kolkata Knight Riders KC Cariappa - KKR 's new 'mystery ' spinner © Facebook When Kolkata Knight Riders spent Rs 2.4 crore on an unknown spinner , whose base price was Rs 10 lakh , it puzzled everyone. A mystery spinner as he likes to be called , KC Cariappa was noticed by KKR 's video analyst in the Karnataka Premier League. ( Know Your Team : Kings XI Punjab ) Primarily a leg spinner by craft , the 20-year-old Coorgi also has the ability to bowl off-spin , which makes him a difficult proposition for batsmen . Kuldeep Yadav - Kolkata Knight Riders Kuldeep Yadav celebrates after removing Ben Dunk . © BCCI Given their tradition of picking up 'mystery ' spinners , it is not a surprise that the Kolkata Knight Riders have a china-man bowler Kuldeep Yadav in their squad. ( Know Your Team : Delhi Daredevils ) The Kanpur boy in fact , started as a fast bowler , but was forced to transform into a spinner by his coach. The 20-year-old has n't made his IPL debut even though he 's been a part of Mumbai Indians and Kolkata Knight Riders . He did play in the Champions League T20 , where an impressive economy rate saw him earn an India call up for the ODIs versus West Indies last year . KL Rahul - Sunrisers Hyderabad KL Rahul celebrates after scoring a century for Karnataka . © PTI With a solid Ranji Trophy season for Karnataka in 2014 that saw him score runs galore - including a hundred in the final - KL Rahul was in demand during the auction in Bengaluru this year . It was the Sunrisers Hyderabad who eventually picked him up for Rs 1 crore . Twin centuries in last year 's Duleep Trophy final in fact earned Rahul a Test call up. After a forgettable debut in Melbourne , he made an impressive 110 in his 2nd Test in Sydney . Sarfaraz Khan - Royal Challengers Bangalore In 2009 , a 12-year-old schoolboy , Sarfaraz Khan broke the record for the highest score in Mumbai 's Harris Shield inter-school tournament , he made 439 , breaking Sachin Tendulkar 's record of 346 . At 17 , Sarfaraz was the youngest player to enter the auctions this year , and was bought by Royal Challengers Bangalore for Rs 50 lakh . The Mumbaikar , who made his Ranji debut last season , is going to use his first pay cheque to buy a car for his father , who is also his coach. He does n't want to show off , Sarfaraz says. His father had met with a bike accident in 2010. The car is to ensure that he can travel without hassles . Story first published on : Tuesday , 07 April 2015 19 : 35 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
