IPL 8 : Opening Gala Fails to Lift Moods after Rain Delay IPL 8 : Opening Gala Fails to Lift Moods after Rain Delay IPL 8 opening ceremony was billed to be a blockbuster but it ended as a damp squib. Starting after a rain delay , the gala event with performances from Bollywood failed to create a flutter . Last updated on Tuesday , 07 April , 2015 23 : 26 IST Total Shares Anushka Sharma during IPL 2015 opening ceremony . © BCCI Kolkata : A lacklustre emcee in Saif Ali Khan , Shahid Kapoor almost taking a tumble and Mumbai Indians skipper Rohit Sharma stepping on a light were part of the IPL opening ceremony on Tuesday that veered from the script and seemingly failed to live up to expectations. ( Indian Premier League Opening Ceremony , Highlights ) Starting after a rain delay , the gala event with performances from the likes of Bollywood heartthrob Hrithik Roshan and beauty Anushka Sharma among others failed to create a flutter as the twitterati got busy panning the show and targeting Saif who hosted it. ( IPL 8 : Skippers Pledge Allegiance to MCC 's Spirit of Cricket ) From calling it a " damp squib " to " Even mehendi ceremony of Indian weddings are more entertaining " , people chose social networking sites to pour out their frustration . " This may sound harsh , but Saif Ali Khan seems quite lost hosting this ceremony , " tweeted one . " # ThankYouSaif for spoiling such a great event like # IPLOpeningCeremony , " posted another . Rooting for their favourite cine and cricket stars , the crowd had a lighter moment when a seemingly fidgety Rohit stepped on a light while climbing the stage . Looking embarrassed , the batsman managed to find his place on the stage but not before the crowd had a hearty laugh . Shahid Kapoor too had his oops moment when he almost had a tumble while coming on to stage for his performance. Taking a few seconds to regain his composure , the actor immediately broke into his dance steps amid loud cheers . A tweet " and finally the worst opening ceremony in global sports is over ! * sighofrelief * # IPLOpeningCeremony " perhaps sums up the popular mood . Story first published on : Tuesday , 07 April 2015 22 : 21 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
