Indian Premier League Opening Ceremony : Hrithik Roshan Charms Kolkata Indian Premier League Opening Ceremony : Hrithik Roshan Charms Kolkata In the cool night air , Hrithik Roshan 's fiery act against the backdrop of dazzling strobe lights and psychedelic floor projections stole the show even as Shahid Kapoor , Anushka Sharma and Farhan Akhtar put up power-packed performances . Last updated on Wednesday , 08 April , 2015 09 : 32 IST Total Shares Hrithik Roshan performs during IPL opening ceremony in Kolkata on Tuesday . © BCCI Kolkata : Performing in the city for the second time after 15 years , Bollywood actor Hrithik Roshan on Tuesday cast a spell on his fans and sealed his connect with West Bengal during his nostalgic performance at the Indian Premier League ( IPL-8 ) opening at the Salt Lake stadium in Kolkata . In the cool night air , Hrithik 's fiery act against the backdrop of dazzling strobe lights and psychedelic floor projections stole the show even as Shahid Kapoor , Anushka Sharma and Farhan Akhtar put up power-packed performances. ( IPL 2015 opening gala fails to lift moods after rain delay ) The actor , who had his maiden live act after his stellar debut in " Kaho Naa Pyaar Hai " at the very same venue , made sure the Kolkata crowd got to see his best moves. ( IPL 8 : Skippers pledge allegiance to MCC 's Spirit of Cricket at opening ceremony ) The actor also expressed his profound love for the city and remembered his part-Bengali heritage. Hrithik 's grandmother Ira -- his father Rakesh Roshan 's mother -- was a Bengali who married Punjabi musician Roshan. ( Virat Kohli enjoys Anushka Sharma 's performance in IPL opening ceremony ) Shouting out to his fans in Bengali , Hrithik instantly connected with the masses . " Kemon acho Kolkata ( How are you Kolkata ? ) . Of all the places I go to , I receive the maximum love from Kolkata , " he said . His grunge style -- black vest and pants with spiked belts and shoes -- and ruffled hair added generous amounts of sex appeal and glamour to the event which had a line-up of other Bollywood biggies Shahid Kapoor , Anushka Sharma and Farhan Akhtar . " IPL is a festival. It has Diwali ki dhoom ( the Diwali euphoria ) , Holi ka rang ( holi 's colours ) , Eid ki mithaas ( sweetness of Eid ) and Christmas 's presents , " he said . The actor also met West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee earlier on Tuesday and promised to attend the 21st edition of the Kolkata International Film Festival to be held later this year. She also requested the actor to shoot in Kolkata , which the actor gladly accepted . To show his respect and love for the city , Hrithik sported a stole during his act , which was gifted by the chief minister . " And a very good thing happened today ( Tuesday ) ... Mamata didi gave me a present... this stole. So I told her that I will wear this as a symbol of my love for this city of joy , " he said to loud cheers from the stands . Story first published on : Wednesday , 08 April 2015 08 : 17 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
