IPL : Chennai Super Kings Look to Put Controversies Behind , Start on a High vs Delhi Daredevils IPL : Chennai Super Kings Look to Put Controversies Behind , Start on a High vs Delhi Daredevils Chennai Super Kings kick-start their IPL 2015 campaign at home against the Delhi Daredevils on Thursday . Last updated on Wednesday , 08 April , 2015 21 : 27 IST Total Shares Chennai Super Kings players Michael Hussey and Dwayne Bravo in practice ahead of IPL 2015 . © PTI Chennai : The most consistent team across all seasons of the Indian Premier League , Chennai Super Kings will look to put the off-field distractions behind and do what they are best at when they take on previous edition 's bottom-placed Delhi Daredevils in their opening match of the Twent20 league in Chennai on Thursday . The Super Kings were hounded by the spot-fixing scandal , in which their Team Principal Gurunath Meiyappan was indicted by a Supreme Court-monitored probe committee last year. ( Dhoni 's Chennai overwhelming favourites to win IPL 2015 ) But the team , which has made the last four in each of the previous seven Indian Premier League seasons , including four straight final appearances and two titles , still managed to reach the second qualifier. ( Chennai Super Kiings - Australia of the IPL ? ) This edition is expected to be no different as they start afresh under the able leadership of Mahendra Singh Dhoni and coach Stephen Fleming once again. ( Big players who will miss IPL 2015 ) Such has been their might that three years without a title is being considered a trophy drought and they would look to bounce back and silence the critics. ( Michael Hussey wants to emulate MS Dhoni 's power and calmness ) They have managed to retain the nucleus of the side and have invested in Irfan Pathan , Michael Hussey , Kyle Abott , Rahul Sharma. ( IPL 2015 : Players to watch out for ) Boosted by the presence of New Zealand 's Brendon McCullum , who had a fabulous World Cup recently , and Dwayne Smith at the top of the order , CSK should not face any problem getting off a swift start. ( IPL 2015 : Formidable CSK the team to beat ) The middle order too , looks all settled with the likes of Suresh Raina , Hussey , Dhoni , Dwayne Bravo in the ranks. In case , these big names fail to fire , CSK have all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja and Ravichandran Ashwin down the order to finish the job with the bat . As far as their bowling is concerned , the presence of Jadeja and Ashwin in spin department is a big plus , while pace bowlers Kyle Abbott , new import Matt Henry from New Zealand and Mohit Sharma are capable seamers . Besides all-rounder Dwayne Bravo have shown variations of pace , furious hitting and swift fielding that has swung matches for CSK in the past . The Daredevils , on the other hand , have once again gone for a complete overhaul of their side , but managed to bring in a few big names during the high-profile IPL auction. Showing a lot of belief in India discard Yuvraj Singh , 33 , the Delhi outfit purchased him for a record Rs. 16 crore after intense bidding among four franchises . The team , which finished at the bottom of the table in the last two seasons , would be banking heavily on Yuvraj to deliver with his all-round abilities . Besides Yuvraj , they have also invested in a 36-year-old fast bowler Zaheer Khan , who is also desperate to make a comeback to the Indian national team one last time. Under the captaincy of Jean-Paul Duminy , the team would be preparing to turn its fortunes around in the 2015 season . Wicketkeeper-batsmen Quinton de Kock of South Africa and Mayank Agarwal are a good opening option , followed by Duminy , Yuvraj , Kedar Jadhav , Albie Morkel in the middle order. Their batting also runs deep like CSK and it would be interesting to see how well these big names live up to their reputation . In Yuvraj and star Sri Lankan all-rounder Angelo Mathews , the Daredevils will have the necessary X-factor. The Sri Lankan captain , however , will miss tomorrow 's tie because of a ban on the Lankan players by the Tamil Nadu government . On the bowling front , South Africa leg-spinner Imran Tahir would look to replicate his World Cup show , while India 's consistent pacer Mohammad Shami will partner the highly experienced Zaheer in the pace department . They look a strong team on paper but it remains to be seen whether they better their 2012 show where they crashed out in the play-offs. They also had last-four finishes in 2008 and 2009 . Teams ( from ) : Chennai Super Kings : MS Dhoni ( capt ) , Suresh Raina , Ravichandran Ashwin , Ravindra Jadeja , Mohit Sharma , Brendon McCullum , Dwayne Bravo , Dwayne Smith , Faf Du Plessis , Matt Henry , Samuel Badree , Michael Hussey , Kyle Abbott , Andrew Tye , Pawan Negi , Ashish Nehra , Baba Aparajith , Ishwar Pandey , Mithun Manhas , Ronit More , Rahul Sharma , Ankush Bains , Irfan Pathan , Pratyush Singh , Eklavya Dwivedi . Delhi Daredevils : JP Duminy ( capt ) , Yuvraj Singh , Manoj Tiwary , Quinton De Kock , Imran Tahir , Nathan Coulter-Nile , Angelo Mathews , Gurinder Sandhu , Travis Head , Albie Morkel , Markus Stoinis , Kedar Jadhav , Mayank Agarwal , Mohammed Shami , Amit Mishra , Jaidev Unadkat , Zaheer Khan , Shahbaz Nadeem , Saurabh Tiwary , Jayant Yadav , Shreyas Iyer , CM Gautam , Srikar Bharat , KK Jiyas , Domnic Joseph . Match starts at 8 : 00 pm IST Story first published on : Wednesday , 08 April 2015 11 : 42 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
