Indian Premier League : David Miller Says Kings XI Punjab Stint Made him a Better Batsman Indian Premier League : David Miller Says Kings XI Punjab Stint Made him a Better Batsman David Miller set the 2013 edition of the Indian Premier League on fire with a 38-ball hundred for Kings XI Punjab against Royal Challengers Bangalore . Last updated on Wednesday , 08 April , 2015 17 : 32 IST Total Shares David Miller will be expected to give a lot of muscle-power to Punjab 's batting . © BCCI New Delhi : Talented South African left-hander David Miller 's career has been on the upswing after his spectacular 38-ball hundred for Kings XI Punjab against RCB during the 2013 IPL and he admits that his stint with the franchise " has made him a better batsman " . ( Johnson Relishing Challenge vs De Villiers ) Asked if he feels any difference for the better as he starts his third season in IPL with Kings XI Punjab , Miller replied in the positive. ( IPL 2015 : Full Coverage ) " Yeah definitely. I feel I have improved as a batsman. I have learnt to do the right things and that adds to my confidence. But I wo n't call myself a finished product. I am still lucky to be learning everyday in my endeavour to get better , " Miller told PTI during an interaction on Wednesday. ( Know Your Team : Kings XI Punjab ) For Miller , performing for Kings XI Punjab has been a " huge high " as his batting against spinners has also improved . " IPL is a big tournament and performing for KXIP gives me a huge high. Over the past few seasons , I have learnt to assess various situations and play accordingly , " said the left-hander , who has played 71 ODIs and 31 T20 Internationals for South Africa . Miller thinks the advantage that KXIP has is having retained the same core group of players that took the team to final last year . " The key will be about sticking to the basics. Our advantage is having the same team. It helps in preparing the strategy as you know the strengths of your team. We have to follow up our last year 's performance with an even stronger show this time. We will also have to manage our training sessions well , " opined the stylish southpaw from KwaZulu Natal . The two most destructive T20 batsmen -- AB de Villiers and Faf du Plessis -- will also be plying their trade for RCB and CSK respectively but 25-year-old Miller feels that there is no competition between him the two other senior players . " AB and Faf have both performed really well in IPL over the years but I am focussing on my own gameplan. I wish both of them well for their respective franchises. I do n't want to put myself under any undue pressure with comparisons , " said Miller . On personal front , Miller is carrying the confidence of having done decently well in the World Cup with a total of 324 runs in eight matches at a decent average of 54 , which includes a 138 against Zimbabwe . " I am really confident about my form and hope to do well but then cricket is a funny game. For me , the key will be to remain switched on in every single game , follow my own gameplan and the will to do well , " Miller said with a note of caution . On a parting note , he said what makes KXIP special is that George Bailey 's boys are " always ready for a good scrap. " " If you see our team , win or lose , we have always been competitive in the last two seasons. Kings XI Punjab is always ready for a good scrap. The spirit has been amazing and our ability to fight till finish has been standout thing for the franchise , " concluded Miller . Story first published on : Wednesday , 08 April 2015 16 : 23 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
