IPL 8 : Gautam Gambhir , Suryakumar Yadav Drive Kolkata Knight Riders Home IPL 8 : Gautam Gambhir , Suryakumar Yadav Drive Kolkata Knight Riders Home Gautam Gambhir hit 57 while Suryakumar Yadav scored 46 not out as Kolkata Knight Riders beat Mumbai Indians by 7 wickets in the Indian Premier League opener . Last updated on Wednesday , 08 April , 2015 23 : 45 IST Total Shares Gautam Gambhir in action vs Mumbai Indians in the IPL . © BCCI Kolkata : Kolkata Knight Riders launched their title defence on a perfect note as skipper Gautam Gambhir and Suryakumar Yadav drove them to a seven-wicket win over Mumbai Indians in the IPL-8 T20 cricket tournament opener here on Wednesday. ( Scorecard | Blog ) Put in , the visitors lost two wickets in three balls and looked shaky 37/3 after a fiery spell from Morne Morkel ( 2/18 ) but Sharma , who had struck an ODI world record 264 here in November last year , was again in his element. ( Rohit Continues Love Affair With Eden Gardens ) Sharma dissected the field with elegance and picked Indian speedster Umesh Yadav as his bunny en route to his 22nd IPL half-century . Sharma 's 98 not out came from 65 balls studded with 12 boundaries and four sixes and was ably supported by New Zealand allrounder Corey Anderson , who remained unbeaten on 55 from 41 balls ( 4x4 , 3x6 ) in a 131-run undefeated partnership . After all the hoopla surrounding his action , Knight Riders trump card spinner Sunil Narine did not look in his usual self and returned wicketless with 28 runs from his four overs . The West Indian looked under pressure and the umpire was seen talking to him during his second spell . Narine began with a widish full toss and the Mumbai skipper was quick to punish it for an easy boundary . Sharma had earlier made his intention clear hitting Yadav for three boundaries in the third over . The star Indian opener was at his explosive best when he smashed three fours and one six as Yadav leaked 21 runs in the 15th over . It gave the much needed impetus to MI run-rate that went under six after the three quick wickets and some clever captaincy by Gautam Gambhir . While Yadav was expensive , Morkel was the pick of the lot and Gambhir made the South African speedster run through his quota of four overs from the High Court end . Morkel dismissed Mumbai Indians star recruit Aaron Finch ( 5 ) cheaply when the Australian World Cup winning opener top-edged one to deep square leg and gave a second breakthrough in Ambati Rayudu ( 0 ) in his penultimate over . In between , Gambhir cleverly brought in Shakib Al Hasan who foxed Aditya Tare ( 7 ) with his flight as the Mumbai wicketkeeper stepped out but only to mistime it to long off . But he was severely let down by his fielders . Andre Russell dropped Corey Anderson on 23 , a regulation catch at mid-on , while part-time wicketkeeper Robin Uthappa not only missed an outside edge of Sharma but missed a stumping when the Mumbai Indians skipper was on 70 . Story first published on : Wednesday , 08 April 2015 19 : 04 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
