Indian Premier League : Rohit Sharma Blames Bowlers for Loss to Kolkata Knight Riders Indian Premier League : Rohit Sharma Blames Bowlers for Loss to Kolkata Knight Riders Mumbai Indians posted a stiff total of 168/3 but failed to defend as Kolkata Knight Riders got their title defence off to a flying start . Last updated on Thursday , 09 April , 2015 09 : 06 IST Total Shares Rohit Sharma speaks after Mumbai Indians ' loss to Kolkata Knight Riders in IPL 2015 opener . © BCCI Kolkata : Mumbai Indians ' captain Rohit Sharma on Wednesday said his bowlers ' failure to get enough breakthroughs upfront was primarily responsible for the seven-wicket defeat to the Kolkata Knight Riders ( KKR ) in the Indian Premier League opener in Kolkata at Eden Gardens. ( Highlights ) Replying to the Mumbai Indians ' 168/3 , the home side got over the line with seven wickets and nine deliveries to spare. courtesy knocks from skipper Gautam Gambhir ( 57 ) , Suryakumar Yadav ( 46 ) and Manish Pandey ( 40 ) . Mumbai could jolt KKR only once in the first ten overs as they saw the back of opener Robin Uthappa. ( Sunil Narine finishes wicketless on return ) " We could just get one wicket upfront , there were no other breakthroughs , their domestic batters were good , they played according to the situations , but there 's still time. We wo n't drop our heads , " said Rohit who scored an unbeaten 98 in the match. ( Gambhir hails KKR bowlers for opening win ) Speaking on his Mumbai team-mate Surya kumar who plays for the men in purple in the IPL , Rohit said , " He is a very talented youngster , plays according to his strengths and has become a lot more matured than what he used to be , I wish him luck. " ( Yuvraj pokes fun at Gambhir for breaking bat in IPL 2015 opener ) Asked if both of his spinners Pragyan Ojha and Harbhajan Singh bowled way too short to the KKR batsmen , the skipper said , " The spinners were trying to vary their length and keep them guessing. They were trying really hard but it just did not pay off today. " Story first published on : Thursday , 09 April 2015 07 : 49 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
