Sunil Narine 2.0 , Sizzle or Fizzle ? Sunil Narine 2.0 , Sizzle or Fizzle ? Mystery spinner Sunil Narine played his first competitive match after almost half a year on Wednesday , when Kolkata Knight Riders took on the Mumbai Indians. But how different is this Narine from the Narine who was banned due to a suspect bowling action ? Last updated on Thursday , 09 April , 2015 12 : 06 IST Total Shares Sunil Narine made a wicket-less return in KKR 's seven-wicket win over MI . © Getty Images When Sunil Narine bowled his first delivery in a competitive match in six months in front of a packed Eden Gardens , there was a sense of anticipation all around. For Rohit Sharma , who was at the crease at that point , for Narine himself , and for the rest of the Knight Riders. The mystery spinner had been reported for the second time in as many matches for suspect action , just before last year 's Champions League T20 final. Earlier this month , the BCCI 's Review Committee dealing with suspect action gave him a clean chit. ( Report | Highlights ) Narine was introduced by Gambhir in the 7th over. It was a low full toss that Rohit Sharma responded to with a boundary towards cover. Narine was clearly shaky. " Look he was under pressure no doubt , " former Australian player Dean Jones told NDTV. " The stigma about throwing is that there 's this cheating tag , and you 're under tremendous amount of scrutiny. There is a lot of money riding on him too , remember that. But there 's no doubt the arm looked a lot straighter than what it was earlier " ( Yuvraj pokes fun at Gambhir for breaking bat in IPL 2015 opener ) The Trinidadian found his feet gradually. He found an in between sort of length that kept the batsmen from charging towards him. Narine conceded 28 runs from his 4 overs , but failed to take a wicket. ( Morne Morkel glad to make best use of conditions at Eden Gardens ) So how different is the new Sunil Narine from the old one ? " Not very , " former Indian captain Sunil Gavaskar told NDTV. " Earlier you felt there was a bit of a kink in the arm , but that was n't visible at all. In any case , he wears full sleeves always , so it 's difficult to make out how much a difference there really is. There was very little for me that stood out. But if he has been tested and cleared to play , then so be it. " ( In Pics : Shah Rukh cheers as KKR win ) Narine 's performance did n't play a decisive role in the game. And with the Eden pitch looking like it had more grass , more bounce and less turn than the previous years ; the spinners were n't too effective anyway . It would be fair to say that the 26 year old did n't do all that badly in his test. But 4 overs is a very small sample size , and it 's only in the next few games that we will perhaps find out if Narine 's USP is still intact . Story first published on : Thursday , 09 April 2015 10 : 46 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
