IPL 8 : Graeme Swann 's Doosra Avatar , Spins to Bollywood Tunes IPL 8 : Graeme Swann 's Doosra Avatar , Spins to Bollywood Tunes Graeme Swann was in a colourful mood as he grooved to the tunes of Bollywood during an IPL 8 launch event in Southall market in London . Last updated on Thursday , 09 April , 2015 19 : 20 IST Total Shares Graeme Swann tries his hand at traditional Bollywood dancing. ( Photo credit : The 10 Group ) As an off-spinner , Graeme Swann never bowled the doosra . However , a launch event of the Indian Premier League 8 saw the former English Test offie in a doosra avatar when he tried to shake a leg to Bollywood numbers . The cricket world has seen Swann hop , skip and deliver with a slip and a short-leg in place but at the Southhall market in London , the offie , clad in all white , came on to perform flanked with dancers dressed in colourful sarees. Although , not as fluent as his high-arm bowling action , Swann pulled off his own rendition of the 'Bhangra ' pretty well. ( Hazlewood Pulls Out of Mumbai Indians ' Squad ) Swann himself , never featured in the IPL but firmly believed that England needed an IPL style T20 competition involving about 10 teams to improve their T20 credentials . " It 's been special since the day it started. It 's the glitziest tournament and it 's just great TV " , he said of the IPL. He also tipped MS Dhoni 's Chennai Super Kings to clinch the eighth edition . England are currently touring the West Indies for a three-Test series under the leadership of Alastair Cook. Swann had some advice for them. He urged the players to " move on " from the 2015 World Cup disaster and concentrate on the job in hand at the West Indies . " England should n't focus on the World Cup in the Windies. They should forget about it , bury it and move on " , said the former Test star. ( Cook Key to England 's Ashes Success : Warne ) Swann , who was a part of the World Cup commentary team , also predicted a series win for England when New Zealand arrive next month . " England will win 2-0 , " Swann predicted , " It will be a very tough series because New Zealand are probably the most improved team in world cricket. " But Swann was n't done with his bold predictions. He also predicted a 2-0 win for England in upcoming the Ashes series . Story first published on : Thursday , 09 April 2015 18 : 09 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
