Indian Premier League : Extra Responsibility Acts as Motivation , Says Varun Aaron Indian Premier League : Extra Responsibility Acts as Motivation , Says Varun Aaron Royal Challengers Bangalore pacer Varun Aaron is ready to step up following untimely injuries to Mitchell Starc and Adam Milne . Last updated on Thursday , 09 April , 2015 21 : 02 IST Total Shares File photo of Royal Challengers Bangalore in IPL 2014 . © BCCI Bengaluru : Following untimely injuries to Mitchell Starc and Adam Milne , Royal Challengers Bangalore pacer Varun Aaron is ready to step up and believes that the extra responsibility would act as motivation. ( Full Indian Premier League Coverage ) Adjudged man of the tournament for his for his fierce bowling during the World Cup , Australian pacer Starc suffered a minor knee injury that made him miss the start of IPL , while New Zealand medium-pacer Milne is still recovering from his heel injury that made him sit out of the semifinal . Spearheading the pace attack , Aaron does not feel any pressure before RCB 's first game against KKR on Saturday . " There is no pressure. But it 's an added responsibility which is good. So , you get on to the field knowing that a lot rests on your shoulders to do well which I feel is a good motivating factor , " he said. ( Mumbai Indian 's Josh Hazlewood Pulls Out of IPL ) Having played 5 Tests and 9 ODIs since making his Indian debut in 2011 , Aaron is also looking forward to working with RCB fast bowling coaches Bharat Arun and Allan Donald . " I am really looking forward to working with Bharat Arun as well as AD ( Allan Donald ) . It 's a great combination , " he said. ( Graeme Swann Spins to Bollywood Tunes ) The South African pace legend had claimed 330 Test wickets at an average of 22.25 , and claimed 272 one-day international wickets at an average of 21.78 during his 12-year-long career . Aaron said Arun is a great guy and done well with the Indian team at the World Cup , " It 's great to have them. Bharat sir has done really well with the Indian team at the World Cup and he is a great guy. " Being at the peak of his fitness , Aaron expressed his unwavering enthusiasm to play for the Challengers . " IPL is something you can express yourself and I am really looking forward to contribute to the RCB 's cause as much as possible. Last season we started off really well and it did n't end as we wanted but this year I would like to take it till the end , " he said . Story first published on : Thursday , 09 April 2015 19 : 55 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
