Rajasthan Royals Player Informs BCCI About Being Offered Money to Fix an IPL 2015 Match Rajasthan Royals Player Informs BCCI About Being Offered Money to Fix an IPL 2015 Match BCCI officials have confirmed to NDTV that a Rajasthan Royals player was approached just before he joined his teammates at a training camp last month . Last updated on Friday , 10 April , 2015 11 : 13 IST Total Shares Rajasthan Royals players in training . © PTI As Rajasthan Royals gear up to kick-start their Indian Premier League 2015 campaign against Kings XI Punjab at Pune on Friday , news has emerged that a player from their side was allegedly approached by a Ranji teammate to fix a game in exchange for money. ( Complete IPL 2015 coverage ) BCCI officials have confirmed to NDTV that the player was approached just before he joined his teammates at a training camp last month. ( Rahul Dravid calls for stricter laws to curb fixing ) The player did n't accept the offer , and instead informed about the incident to his franchise officials , who in turn reported it to the Anti-Corruption and Security Unit ( ACSU ) of the IPL . As he informed the necessary officials without any delay , no action will be taken against the approached player . During IPL 2013 , three players from Rajasthan Royals - S Sreesanth , Ankeet Chavan and Ajit Chandila - were found guilty of spot-fixing. Sreesanth and Chavan were handed life bans by the BCCI 's disciplinary committee . The spot-fixing scandal of 2013 led to the expulsion of top officials of Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals. This included the son-in-law ( Gurunath Meiyappan ) of former Board president and ICC chairman N. Srinivasan. The case is still being adjudicated by the Supreme Court , with a special panel headed by the former Chief Justice of India investigating the matter . ( With inputs from Suprita Das ) Story first published on : Friday , 10 April 2015 08 : 46 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
