Indian Premier League : MS Dhoni Lauds Ashish Nehra for Chennai Super Kings ' Win Indian Premier League : MS Dhoni Lauds Ashish Nehra for Chennai Super Kings ' Win Ashish Nehra won the man-of-the-match award for his bowling figures of 4/25 in Chennai Super Kings ' thrilling one-run win over Delhi Daredevils on Thursday . Last updated on Friday , 10 April , 2015 12 : 58 IST Total Shares Ashish Nehra collects his man-of-the-match award in CSK 's one-run win over DD in IPL 2015 . © BCCI Chennai : Chennai Super Kings skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni lauded pacer Ashish Nehra for his fiery spell and expressed satisfaction that his team could held on to nerves against Delhi Daredevils in their thrilling match of the IPL-8 twenty20 cricket tournament here. ( Complete IPL 2015 coverage | Stats | Fixtures ) " You have to hold on to your nerves , " said Dhoni after Chennai eked out a one-run win over Delhi in a last-over thriller at the MA Chidambaram Stadium here. ( 'Nehra ji on Fire ' , Tweets Virender Sehwag ) " I thought the last one was in the slot , and Bravo wo n't be happy with the ball he bowled , but it is good to win close games , " he added referring to the last over bowled by Dwayne Bravo which yielded 17 runs . " Nehra is good , at times he is prone to injuries , but he backs himself , which is good for a fast bowler. ( IPL 2015 : Is spot-fixing back to haunt the tournament ? ) It is good to see him the way he bowls. He has kept himself fit. He is one Indian pacer who bowls pace effortlessly. " With this win , Chennai opened their IPL-8 campaign on a positive note and Dhoni said : " It was important to win because this was our first match here in a long time . " Not just for us , but for the crowd , because they appreciate opposition too. A crowd you want to do well in front of , " he said . Ashish Nehra , who was awarded the Man of the Match , said his team should have posted a bigger total . " The way we started we were definitely 15-20 short , " said Nehra , who returned with figures of 4-0-25-3 . " In T20 games every run is important. You can see the score so that run-out was important. A good start. These two points will count in the end. These are the games you want to win , " he added . Losing a match after coming so close , Delhi Daredevils skipper J P Duminy described it as an unbelievable game and said his team will take a lot of positive from their opening tie. " Unbelievable , " said Duminy . " Game of small margins. Proud of the boys. We will take a lot of learning out yesterday. We just kept saying the gameplan is to keep taking wickets. They came hard at us , but we kept taking wickets. " Feeling very good. Obviously we would have liked to win , but still a long time to go. A lot of learnings here. " Story first published on : Friday , 10 April 2015 10 : 01 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
