I See Some of Myself in Virat Kohli , Says Ravi Shastri I See Some of Myself in Virat Kohli , Says Ravi Shastri Ravi Shastri believes that Virat Kohli has brought the ruthless factor into the side as India outplayed Sri Lanka in the first four ODIs to take a 4-0 lead going to Ranchi for the last ODI on Sunday . Last updated on Saturday , 15 November , 2014 14 : 48 IST Total Shares Virat Kohli ( right ) and Ravi Shastri during MAK Pataudi lecture delivered by VVS Laxman . © PTI Kolkata : With India playing with a new-found spunk under stand-in skipper Virat Kohli , team director Ravi Shastri on Friday said he sees a bit of himself in the flamboyant Delhi batsman. ( Kohli Praises Rohit ) " He 's aggressive and he 's very young , so the exuberance is still seen in him , which is very good for the team. And I see a bit of myself in him , " Shastri said during an interaction with management students , here today . " Even when I was 20-22 years of age , the adrenaline was running high. We 've have been playing some good cricket. It 's a passionate bunch of boys. " In his own admission , Kohli has brought the ruthless factor into the side as India outplayed Sri Lanka in the first four ODIs to take a 4-0 lead going to Ranchi for the last ODI on Sunday . With Rohit Sharma going berserk in a breathtaking world record 264 , India piled 404/5 for yet another merciless win against the Lankans . Lavishing praise on Sharma , the former India skipper said " I just told him to spend some time in the middle and he responded well to the pressure. " Shastri said pressure always brings out the best in one . " Sometime having butterflies in your stomach is good... He was under pressure scoring the initial 10-15 runs , but once he overcame the phase , everything fell in place , " he said . Shastri also hailed the ICC 's recent crackdown on bowlers with suspected actions and said it was better late than never . Story first published on : Friday , 14 November 2014 20 : 57 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
