India vs Sri Lanka : Bowling Biggest Concern Going Into World Cup , Says Lahiru Thirimanne India vs Sri Lanka : Bowling Biggest Concern Going Into World Cup , Says Lahiru Thirimanne Sri Lanka have been hammered in all four ODIs and their bowling has suffered at the hands of the Indian batsmen . Last updated on Saturday , 15 November , 2014 20 : 30 IST Total Shares The likes of Ajinkya Rahane , Shikhar Dhawan & Co. went after the Sri Lankan bowlers in all the games . © BCCI Ranchi : Blaming bowlers for their downfall in the ongoing series against India , Sri Lankan vice-captain Lahiru Thirimanne today said bowling would be their main concern going into the World Cup. ( India Aim for Whitewash ) " We have to work on our wicket-taking options and mainly our bowling plan. Our bowlers did n't bowl well , I think that 's the main area going into the World Cup , " said Thirimanne . " Our main concern is our bowling in these conditions. It 's very hard to contain runs in Indian conditions. " ( Ranatunga Feels India Tour Has Hurt Sri Lanka 's World Cup Preparation ) Bowling being a major worry , the Lankan pacers worked overtime on their line and length at the nets on Saturday . In the two available practice nets , the Lankans divided them into groups one each for batting and bowling . The bowlers were asked to hit the good length spot that had a clear demarcation on the strip as it was a bowling-specific training by the former pacer Chaminda Vaas , the bowling coach . India were just 89/2 in 20 overs but came out firing in all cylinders with Rohit Sharma holding the centrestage in his world record 264 as they set Lanka a mammoth 205 target in the fourth ODI . Thirimanne further said it would have been a different proposition if they had taken wickets . " We could not get any wickets that 's the main problem. If they have wickets intact they can go after bowlers in the last 10 overs. " Lankans have meekly surrendered the series 0-4 and face a whitewash here tomorrow and Thirimanne said it 's getting difficult day by the day . " Losing four matches in a row is tough in a series but our team spirit is good. The boys are having fun. Team spirit is not a problem but when it comes to the game it 's getting very tough because our bowlers are not doing well in these conditions. " The Lankans might be short on practice because of the sudden series but Thirimanne said it should not be an excuse . " As professional cricketers you have to adapt to the conditions , you have to play well in any given condition . Story first published on : Saturday , 15 November 2014 19 : 17 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
