West Indies Seek Talks With India After Legal Threat West Indies Seek Talks With India After Legal Threat Hours after the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) announced they would take legal action against the WICB and were suspending all planned tours of the Caribbean - moves that could have a devastating financial impact on the West Indies - officials gathered at a beachside hotel to deal with the fallout . Last updated on Wednesday , 22 October , 2014 09 : 24 IST Total Shares File Photo : West Indies team celebrate after taking a wicket during ODI series in India . © AFP The West Indies Cricket Board will ask for a meeting with their Indian counterparts as they seek to find a way out of the crisis caused by the abandonment of their tour. ( West Indies stare at financial despair ) Hours after the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) announced they would take legal action against the WICB and were suspending all planned tours of the Caribbean - moves that could have a devastating financial impact on the West Indies - officials gathered at a beachside hotel to deal with the fallout . The return home of the team after the fourth of five one-day internationals and before three scheduled Tests , left India facing losses , according to local media reports , of around $ 65 million . After a seven-hour meeting , the WICB issued a statement that was clearly designed to appeal to the BCCI and which did not include any sanctions against players who had quit the tour . " The West Indies Cricket Board regrets , and is deeply embarrassed , by the premature and unfortunate end to the recent tour of India , " the statement read . " The WICB once again expresses to the BCCI and all stakeholders - especially the cricket-loving public of the West Indies and India - sorrow for the events leading up to this development . " The WICB believes a way can be found to repair the damage that has been caused and to ensure similar events do not recur , with the focus being on the betterment of West Indies and world cricket , " the statement added . As well as requesting a meeting with the BCCI , the West Indies board said they had set up a task force to examine the cause of the tour 's collapse . The WICB also vowed to " aedssure Cricket South Africa that it will use its best endeavours to ensure a successful tour of South Africa as schedule. " The first of three Tests against South Africa is due to start on December 17 . India were due to tour the Caribbean in 2016 and if that tour is lost , the WICB will miss out on lucrative television and sponsorship deals . The cause of the conflict was a new 'Memorandum of Understanding ' and collective agreement between the WICB and their union , the West Indies Players Association , regarding payment for the cricketers which the leading Test players said was signed in September without their consent . The players said the deal would result in a significant loss of earnings while the WICB argue the new arrangement allows for more cricketers across the Caribbean to be given central contracts . Grenada 's Prime Minister Keith Mitchell on Tuesday publicly offered his services as a mediator and said the crisis was bad for the entire Caribbean . " It is a bit frightening for the region , not just for sport , but for our people , our economies on the whole , " he added . The situation has caused dismay in a region where , despite disappointing performances , there remains a great passion for cricket and pride in West Indies ' past achievements . There appears little sympathy for any of the disputing parties but former pace bowler Michael Holding put the blame at the feet of the WICB . " The problem with West Indies is that the WICB always pushes things to the brink and waits till the last moment , " said Holding , now a television commentator . Story first published on : Wednesday , 22 October 2014 08 : 08 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
