Chokers South Africa hope to buck the trend this time The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 11 , 2015 , 11.07AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : The South Africans have always been a force on the world stage since their return to international cricket in 1992. But six World Cups have gone by and the Proteas , considered one of the favourites every single time , have failed to make any of the finals . Call it choking , call it lack of killer instinct , but one of the most decorated sides in world cricket have fallen by the wayside when it has mattered. And it 's probably the killer instinct that the South Africans want to bring in to their game as they get ready for yet another World Cup . One of the ways chalked out by the team management as they try to bring in that killer instinct is to introduce boxing drills into their practice sessions . Hashim Amla , one of the quietest of the lot , was involved in a boxing bout with trainer Gregory Allen King for more than half-an-hour during their practice session at the Hagley Oval on Tuesday . It was n't a friendly bout by any stretch of imagination. With his boxing gloves on , the mild-mannered Amla was furiously throwing punches at King , who was blocking most of those and throwing back counter punches at probably the most technically equipped batsmen in world cricket at the moment . Amla ducked a few , but a few of the punches landed as well , and after a while Amla got tired. But the trainer was not ready to let the champion right-hander go . He urged him on for a second round , making a part of the Hagley Oval their own little boxing ring. And this was all happening after Amla had spent half an hour trying to practise cross-batted slogs at balls thrown into him from 15 yards , with AB de Villiers conducting the session . Amla was only let go by King after he was out of breath. A member of the South African team man agement told TOI that the drill has been introduced by King for a while now. " It 's not just Amla but most of them who have to practise this drill , " the official said . Asked whether it was done to bring in the killer instinct into the unit , Faf du Plessis , one of the key members of the South African team , laughed , saying , " Maybe Hashim wants to become a heavy weight boxer. " On a more serious note , Faf added that it has a lot to do with fitness as well. " It 's a bit of cardio work and it is not just about running and gymming. Greg has introduced it for us and we enjoy it quite a lot. " It remains to be seen whether the South Africans can land those killer punches when it matters . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
