World Cup 2015 : Best for me to bat at No. 3 , says Virat Kohli The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 22 , 2015 , 12.19PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : India may be facing the toughest rivals in their group on Sunday , but after their brilliant win over Pakistan , their vice-captain Virat Kohli said the team is looking to build on it over the next few games , beginning against South Africa here on Sunday . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " It 's very important to hold momentum in a tournament like the World Cup. We started on a good note and we 'll be looking to build on it over the next few games , " Kohli said on the eve of the match. " With the type of results emerging from the early games , it is imperative to hold sway and not lose the way. " On the significance of the big game against South Africa , he said : " South Africa is one of the top sides in the world , so to get over that hurdle will give immense boost to our self-belief in many ways. " When asked which slot was he was more comfortable batting at , No.3 or 4 , he said that he was ready to bat at any number to fit into the team 's gameplan. " I 've answered this before as well. We were trying to figure out the best combination for the team. People really need to have some patience with something we try to do. We do experiment , and if that does n't pay off , it 's regarded as something that is going to lead to our downfall. We do n't think that way . " I 've played enough number of games to try and experiment with my batting position for the team to find the best combination possible. We figured out that it 's best for me to bat at No. 3 , which I 've done over the last few years , and we have got success. You make mistakes , you learn from them and that was one situation where we wanted to try things out. We could n't have done it at any other time apart from the Tri-series. Yes , that was the main plan behind it. " But did the constant change in positions affect his batting at all ? " No , it did not affect my batting. If you do well regularly , people want you to play well in every game. I ca n't virtually score a century in every game that I play. As long as I know what I 'm doing with my batting and the kind of mindset I 'm in , I 'm not really worried about anything else. " On his confidence level after his hundred against Pakistan , Kohli said : " Well , I 've been in good form , so more or less it was a case of making most of that. ( Rivals ) people will have plans for you. It 's all about how you stay a step ahead. I think last game was a learning curve for me personally , learning how to play in different gears and how to mould my game according to what the bowlers were bowling at me. That gave me a lot of confidence. " On his thoughts on Sunday 's game , Kohli said : " For us every game is a test. It 's a game of cricket. I always maintain that you play a game of cricket with a bat in hand and a ball in hand , and that 's all there is to it. You 're wearing clothes of different colours , and that 's it. It 's about how you feel mentally on that particular day. We want to play well as a unit and that 's what we 're looking to do in this World Cup. " On the role of finishers at big grounds , he said : " I think at any ground the role of finishers really depends on how the top order bats. I think in Melbourne , we have seen that sustained momentum throughout the innings is the successful way. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
