World Cup 2015 : We will deal with Oz sledging , says Corey Anderson The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 25 , 2015 , 10.29AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : The Eden Park was closed on Tuesday. The teams did n't practice but the mind games ahead of the crucial Australia-New Zealand match have started . Australian opener Aaron Finch said after a practice session here on Monday that all the pressure will be on New Zealand and Corey Anderson was quick to counter that . 'That might be mind games. It 's the World Cup and every game is a pressure situation. It 's exciting for us and we look at it as a positive to come out in front of packed crowd at Eden Park who hopefully will get stuck into the Aussies. I 'm sure the next few days it will sink in about how big it 's going to be at Eden Park, ' Anderson told a website , as the team assembled in Auckland for the key clash . The allrounder made it clear that they are not bothered about the Aussie sledging and that the Kiwis will play it their own way . 'Their sledging tactics are well known now and something we have n't involved ourselves in. We 're fairly neutral on the field , stick to what we do. We 'll be expecting a bit of heat from them and I guess that 's part of their game plan and we 'll just deal with it as it comes.' The short , straight boundaries are a worry from bowlers ' perspective - the bowler ends up near the boundary line when he is at the top of his mark. 'I think it 's a ground where you need to change it a lot. If you miss slightly you can get taken to the cleaners. Top edges do n't go for four , they go for six. It 's one of those things , just get on with it.' He ruled out any mystery element in the Aussie line up saying : 'They 're not going to be foreign , they 're our neighbours from across the ditch. They do n't have guys who come out of the back of hand , anything like that.' Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
