World Cup 2015 : When Lankan fans made beautiful music The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Mar 9 , 2015 , 12.10PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 There is never a dull moment when there are Sri Lanka fans in the stands. They were present with a band set equipped with drums , cymbals and trumpets to blare out English , Sinhalese as well as Bollywood numbers . The party started right outside the Sydney Cricket Ground before the match. But later , things became quieter when Glenn Maxwell and Shane Watson provided the fireworks. However , to encourage the Lankan batsmen they became vocal again after the change of innings. But as the result became apparent , the music became subdued and ultimately tapered off . Equal support There were as many Sri Lankan flags at the SGC as there were Australian ones. The Indian fans ' overwhelming presence in Adelaide , Melbourne and Perth had made the support partisan. It was a welcome sight to see both the teams get almost equal support in the stands. With batmen of both sides providing the fireworks it was carnival atmosphere in the overflowing SCG . Peek even when you pee You could say there was simply no privacy at the SCG. At every nook and corner in the media complex there are TV sets installed so that you never miss out on the action. Be it the dining hall , corridors , even the toilets. There were TVs installed everywhere so that journalists are not deprived of any action in the middle even when you are doing your business. That 's professionalism for you.. . Gould strikes gold Ian Gould became the 15th umpire to stand in 100 ODIs when he took the field in the Australia-Lanka game on Sunday .During his playing days , he was a wicketkeeper-batsman for Middlesex , Sussex and England in a career that ran from 1975 to 1996.He kept wickets for England in 18 ODIs in 1983 , including seven games during the World Cup in 1983 in which he scored 66 runs and accounted for 12 batsmen behind the wickets. The umpire with most appearances in ODIs is Rudi Koertzen who has stood in 209 matches . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
