World Cup 2015 : Fast , accurate swing bowling will be key to India , says Crowe The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 13 , 2015 , 07.46PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : New Zealand great Martin Crowe says fast and accurate swing bowling will be the key to the " smoothly flowing " Indian cricket team 's fortunes as it prepares to enter the knockout stage of the ongoing cricket World Cup . Defending champions India sailed into the quarterfinals with five wins on the trot , including convincing victories against Pakistan and South Africa . " India are peaking confidently. They have lifted their energies well. Whether they have enough fast , accurate swing will be the key , as Mohit Sharma , Mohammed Shami and Umesh Yadav can go walkabout , " Crowe wrote in a column for 'ESPNcricinfo' . The former New Zealand captain added , " So far they have gelled with their leader and are flowing along smoothly. Their ability to take enough wickets in the semi-final , possibly against Australia , will be the one single factor to decide India 's fate. " Crowe , one of the leading batsmen of the late '80s and early '90s , played 77 Tests for New Zealand and was the top scorer in the 1992 ODI World Cup in which his side made the semifinals . He called Australia the most power-packed side competing in the mega event . " Australia are the most equipped , power-wise. They are a spirited bunch of fit , fiery macho athletes , looking much better now that their touch player and mastermind is rightly steering the ship . " I 've said it before and will repeat it here : courageous leadership will win this tournament , and Michael Clarke is my greatest fear , from a trans-Tasman viewpoint , if a down-under showdown takes place in Melbourne. Most pressing for him , too , will be to work out his fifth-bowler combo. " As far as New Zealand were concerned , Crowe said , They have done all that has been asked , while not necessarily filling their boots with the bat. This is not a concern for a side that has cast aside box-ticking , and instead is living in the moment. " South Africa is another team Crowe hoped to see in the semifinals . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
