Five things learnt in World Cup first round The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 16 , 2015 , 12.21PM IST Australian bowler Mitchell Starc watches his delivery during their Cricket World Cup match against New Zealand. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : The group stage of the World Cup came to an end on Sunday. Below are some of the key points to have emerged from the tournament so far : Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Left-arm forward Some 23 years after Wasim Akram lit up the last World Cup in Australia and New Zealand , this tournament has seen a clutch of left-arm fast bowlers following in the Pakistan great 's footsteps , with batsmen exposed to an angle of delivery many of them do n't face that often . Australia 's Mitchell Starc has so far taken 16 wickets at just 8.50 apiece , with New Zealand 's Trent Boult not far behind with 15 at just a shade more than 15 each . Meanwhile Pakistan fielded a trio of left-arm quicks -- Mohammad Irfan , Rahat Ali and Wahab Riaz -- in their tournament-changing win over South Africa . Attack to win Cricket tactics are a little bit like flared trousers -- everything comes back at least once. Amidst all the blazing hitting , what this World Cup has shown is that captains prepared to back their bowlers with attacking fields -- Australia 's Michael Clarke and New Zealand 's Brendon McCullum being two examples -- have the greatest chance of success . India peak at right time India had a wretched tour of Australia in the lead-up to the defence of their title but , as they showed in winning the 2011 World Cup on home soil and the 2013 Champions Trophy in England , MS Dhoni 's men -- and the captain himself -- have an admirable ability to raise their game when there 's a major prize at stake . Suresh Raina waves his bat as MS Dhoni watches after scoring a century against Zimbabwe. ( AP Photo ) Garden of Eden no graveyard for bowlers Before the tournament started , there were fears the short straight boundaries at Eden Park would lead to a riot of run-scoring at the Auckland ground . Yet the venue has staged some low-scoring thrillers , including New Zealand 's one-wicket win over Australia in the match of the tournament so far , with the Aussies all out for 151 after Boult took five for 27 , only for Starc to hit back with six for 28 . Associates on the rise It is a measure of how things have changed that Ireland 's victory over the West Indies was no longer regarded as a shock . Meanwhile Afghanistan , UAE and Scotland all had their moments too , adding to the vibrancy of a tournament that otherwise would just be a slightly expanded version of the Champions Trophy . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
