World Cup 2015 : Australian attack no longer above the rest , says Steve Waugh The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 20 , 2015 , 04.34PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 JOHANNESBURG : The bowling attack of the Australian cricket team no longer stands head and shoulders above the rest , according to former World Cup-winning captain Steve Waugh . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Commenting on the Proteas ' performance on Wednesday when they beat Sri Lanka by nine wickets to enter the semifinals of the mega event , Waugh said the South Africans had sent a clear message to the rest of the quarterfinalists that they are eager to lift the title . " I was very impressed with what I saw from South Africa , " Waugh told the Afrikaans daily Beeld here . " They played superbly and their bowling was impressive. There would have been enormous pressure on the team about their poor performance record in big games like this , but they handled it well and the influence of Mike Horn was clear , " Waugh added . Solo explorer Horn , who has walked to the North Pole on foot and in total darkness , has been coaching the Proteas on how to deal with pressure and handle fear . Horn confirmed to the daily that he would be staying on with the Proteas for the semis and beyond if they made it there . Waugh said the Proteas ' bowling attack in the game was one of the best in the tournament . " The Australian attack no longer stands head and shoulders above the rest. New Zealand has a formidable attack and after Wednesday South Africa ' also has to be taken into account. " Waugh would not comment though on who he was singling out to take the coveted trophy home . " I believe the team that bowls the best from now on will win the World Cup , but I do n't think we are likely to see a score of 350 or more again . " Australia , New Zealand and South Africa have the best bowling attacks and that is why I do n't doubt for a moment that one of them will win , " Waugh concluded . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
