India 's lesson in defeat : Why blame Anushka ? The author has posted comments on this article Sutapa Singha , TNN | Mar 28 , 2015 , 01.57PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 There are many lessons in defeat , but the one that has emerged strongest since Thursday is that cricket - like all other sport - is just another aspect of life. And the person who 's taught us this is the one who has been left the most battered and bruised by India 's loss to Australia in the World Cup. Yes , we 're talking about Anushka Sharma . As Virat Kohli got out and the look of unpleasant shock on Anushka 's face got beamed around the globe , Indian fans - never a forgiving bunch , really - got to work. Social networking sites exploded with anti-Anushka rant. Virat 's failure was somehow linked to her presence in the stands. Was it pressure to impress his girl ? Was it too much exercise the previous night ? Did she jinx his performance ? What 's quite surprising and shameful is that much of the malicious chatter was directed not at the cricketer but at his girlfriend. Did someone whisper Indian prejudice and gender bias ? Anyway... Till this point , the script was familiar. After all , we 're used to cricketers ' families being threatened and their effigies burnt after a defeat. But even as the vitriol flew around the net , a significant voice emerged that asked the simple and obvious question : why blame Anushka ? It 's not just Bollywood and the sports community that are calling the bluff of these troll bullies. Even young India is joining in. These posts supporting Anushka indicate that there 's only so much stupidity that this country will take lying down . For the first time , we are being able to take defeat in our stride. Yes , we lost the match and it broke our hearts. Yes , the security outside Dhoni 's house has been beefed up. Anushka 's effigies have been burnt. And yet , there 's reason enough to celebrate. We are a country that plays great cricket. A country that can cry when India loses. A country that can cheer when a woman takes on the might of khap panchayats , even if on screen. And a country that realizes that winning and losing are , after all , a part of life. Cheers to that . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
