Cricket legends call for restoring bat-ball balance in ODIs The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 31 , 2015 , 08.39PM IST Dravid also reiterated his opposition to ICC trimming the 2019 World Cup from 14 to 10 teams. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Cricket legends have called for restoring the balance between bat and ball , including easing fielding restrictions and regulating bat thickness , in the ODI format . Michael Holding , Ian Chappell , Rahul Dravid and Martin Crowe , participating as experts in 'ESPNcricinfo ' discussion on the future of ODI game , in Sydney after the second World Cup semifinal , felt these changes would encourage imaginative captaincy and more aggressive cricket . " Once you get a piece of bat on the ball , it disappears. There are a lot of slow-motion replays where you see a batsman hitting the ball , you can see the bat actually twisting in their hands. Obviously not hitting the ball well , and the ball disappears nonetheless. That is one aspect that has to be looked into. If the ICC do nothing else , they have to look at that , " West Indies pace legend Holding said . Australian great Chappell said thick bats have tilted the balance heavily in favour of the batsmen . " Sooner or later , a bowler or an umpire is going to getting seriously hurt. Because the ball is getting back so quickly they have got no time to react. " The field restrictions that allow only four fielders outside the circle in non-Powerplay overs and the two new balls have been the talking points of this World Cup . Chappell wanted most of the restrictions removed and Dravid and Holding agreed with him . " As far as restrictions are concerned , I like as few as possible , " Chappell said . Crowe brought up the issue of the safety of the crowds while Dravid seemed worried about the net bowlers . " One of the people who I really worry for is net bowlers , " Dravid said . " I have worked in the IPL. We have young kids who bowl in the nets. All university kids , college kids. All 17- , 18- , 19-year-olds bowling in the nets , and you have the likes of Shane Watson and Chris Gayle batting in the nets and practising T20 batting. I am amazed no one has seriously got hurt. " Coming back to the size of bats , Holding said , " I do n't know if the ICC is afraid of the people who manufacture the bat to say exactly what has to go into a bat . " They have limited the width of the bat , but they have never limited the depth. There used to be a sweet spot on the bat years ago. Actually one company - I do n't want to name it - used to have a spot on the back of the bat , which was pretty much parallel to the one on the front of the bat. Now that would have to cover the entire bat because there is no sweet spot , there is a sweet bat. " Dravid and Crowe also reiterated their opposition to ICC trimming the 2019 World Cup from 14 to 10 teams . " If you take away these world events from a lot of these nations , I 'm afraid you actually kill the game , " Dravid said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
