Classy Rahul leads South Zone 's charge in Duleep Trophy final The author has posted comments on this article Arani Basu , TNN | Oct 31 , 2014 , 08.27AM IST With national selectors watching the action , Rahul struck a classy , unbeaten 168 ( 205b ) , taking South into a position of strength. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The idea of scheduling the Duleep Trophy upfront in the domestic season was to give fringe players a chance to prove themselves for the higher level early in the season. Yet , the final between South Zone and Central Zone looked like turning competitive only on the second morning when South skipper Vinay Kumar gobbled up Central 's tale . And the momentum was carried forward by the talk of the day , KL Rahul and Robin Uthappa . The two in-form Karanataka batsmen came out with a clear intent of dominating the Central bowling led by medium-pacers Pankaj Singh and Ishwar Pandey . While Uthappa would be rueing missing out on a big one after playing Jalaj Saxena 's off-spinner across the line and getting trapped in front for 80 , Rahul showed no mercy to the bowlers . With national selectors watching the action , Rahul struck a classy , unbeaten 168 ( 205b , 18x4s , 2x6s ) , taking South into a position of strength. South ended the day with a 32-run lead with six wickets remaining . Rahul summed up the significance of the knock nicely. " After batting on a difficult track in Lahli ( in the semis ) , I realised that you need to score big once you are in on an easy pitch. " Rahul stayed true to his words and Central now have a mountain to climb in the game. While Rahul claimed he was n't aware that the selectors were around , the big , lumbering frame of Pankaj Singh woke up rather late in the day. Trying to fight the 'unlucky ' ghosts of England away , Pankaj triggered a mini middle-order collapse with a fine spell of reverse swing. Unfortunately for Central Zone , Pankaj got his rhythm going when the scoreboard was reading 2311. He found the edge of Baba Aparajith 's bat before getting Dinesh Karthik ( 0 ) leg-before with an indipper. R Prasanna fell soon at 233 . " There was n't much help from the pitch. Once the ball was old , I had to bend my back a lot more and put more pace so that it aides reverse swing , " Pankaj said . Brief scores : South Zone 308 for 4 ( Rahul 168 n.o. , Uthappa 80 ; Pankaj 3-55 ) lead Central Zone 276 ( Bist 79 ) by 32 runs Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
