Sidak , 16 , in Mumbai team for West Zone T20 The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Mar 17 , 2015 , 11.01AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Continuing their policy of fielding youngsters throughout this season , the selectors included promising 16-year-old left-arm spinner Sidak Singh in the Mumbai team for the West Zone T20 leg on Monday. The tourney will be held from March 24-27 at Pune . Sidak took 29 wickets in five games to star in Mumbai 's U-19 Cooch Behar trophy triumph this season. " He came into the team for the final two league games , which we had to win to qualify for the knock-outs , and he delivered by taking five wickets in each match. He took five wickets in the final too. He is a spirited boy , who never lets his head drop , " said Mumbai U-19 coach Vinod Raghavan. " He turns the ball , bowls in good areas. He bowls according to the wicket and the situation. He is a good reader of the game , " Raghavan observed. " Ideally , he should have been played first in the four-day format , " the coach felt . Sidak performed well in both the trial matches that were held to select the Mumbai T20 team , returning figures of 4-0-22-2 in the first game , where he got the wickets of skipper Aditya Tare and Siddhesh Lad , and 4-1-17-1 in the second match , in which he bowled in the Powerplays . Around five years back , Sidak , son of a cloth merchant , came to the city from Varanasi to play cricket. He was picked up by Rizvi Springfield coach Raju Pathak to play for his school team after Central Railway cricket secretary Salim Sheikh wanted the former to have a 'look at his talent. ' Sidak reposed Pathak 's faith by logging plenty of wickets and runs for Rizvi Springfield. He won the Mumbai Cricket Association 's 'Junior Cricketer of the Year award ' for the 2011-12 season. " He is a quick learner , " said Pathak . Last year , he took an astonishing nine for 28 against Maharashtra in a Vijay Merchant Trophy ( U-16 ) matc. " He is an attacking bowler , who always looks to flight the ball , " observed his Mumbai coach in the Mumbai U-14 & U-16 teams , Prashant Shetty . Team : Aditya Tare ( Captain ) , Abhishek Nayar , Suryakumar Yadav , Shreyas Iyer , Siddhesh Lad , Akhil Herwadkar , Sarfaraz Khan , Siddharth Chitnis , Shardul Thakur , Prathamesh Dhake , Rohan Raje , Sidak Singh , Pravin Tambe , Abhishek Raut , Shoaib Shaikh . Sheikh wins it for Sunrise Anas Sheikh ( 3-40 & 48 off 32 balls ) helped Sunrise beat Young Friends Union by four wickets in a Kanga knock-out Shield game on Monday .Brief Scores : Young Friends Union 199 in 43.2 overs ( Anas Sheikh 3-40 , Sairaj 3-32 ) lost to Sunrise 200-6 in 42.3 overs ( Anas Sheikh 48 ) by four wickets . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
