All eyes on Supreme Court as BCCI sweats over panel The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Apr 22 , 2014 , 10.28AM IST The Supreme Court on April 16 had asked the BCCI to come up with a probe panel . Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : Sunday 's high-voltage emergent Working Committee meeting , that the BCCI spent lakhs of rupees to organize , may well have been a futile exercise as all three persons shortlisted for the proposed probe panel appear to have one conflict of interest or the other . The BCCI Working Committee had decided to submit the names of RK Raghavan , a former CBI director , JN Patel , a former chief justice of the Calcutta High Court and Ravi Shastri , former India cricketer-turned TV commentator , to the Supreme Court for approval at Tuesday 's hearing . Board members chose to ignore former president Shashank Manohar 's strong reservations against Shastri 's inclusion in the panel despite the fact that the latter is employed by the BCCI. Manohar was also over-ruled on Raghavan , who is a voting member of the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association ( TNCA ) of which N Srinivasan is the president. Raghavan , whose name was passed by BCCI members following a show of hands , is the secretary of fifth-division Kamyuth Club that plays in the TNCA League. And Justice ( retd ) Patel has close family ties with BCCI 's interim president Shivlal Yadav . The buzz over Justice Patel and Yadav 's ties grew louder after former BCCI president and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar on Monday urged the duo to make their family relations public. Pawar also questioned the eligibility of Shastri , wondering how someone who has a financial contract with BCCI can be part of an inquiry committee against the BCCI chief . The Supreme Court on April 16 had asked the BCCI to come up with a probe panel comprising eminent persons with impeccable reputation to look into the allegations of corruption against 13 individuals named in the Justice ( retd ) Mukul Mudgal committee report on betting and spot-fixing in IPL 6 . In the given scenario , all eyes will be on the Supreme Court , which will study the names suggested by the BCCI on Tuesday before issuing further directives in the case. Last month the apex court had passed several strictures on the contentious issue of conflict of interest in the BCCI , including the one involving India Cements boss Srinivasan and the Chennai Super Kings - IPL 's Chennai franchise that is wholly owned by the cement giant . Petitioner Adiyta Verma , the secretary of the 'unrecongnised ' Cricket Association of Bihar ( CAB ) had stated on Sunday that the names mooted by the BCCI were not acceptable to him. On Tuesday , Verma is likely to plead for a probe either by the Central Bureau of Investigation or National Intelligence Agency into the IPL scandal . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
