I was disillusioned with what happened in WC meeting : Manohar The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Apr 21 , 2014 , 06.12PM IST The former BCCI chief had also opposed the name of Ravi Shastri because of conflict of interest as he 's a Board-contracted TV commentator and IPL governing council member. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Former BCCI chief Shashank Manohar is " disillusioned " with the proceedings of the Board 's Emergent Working Committee meeting which he had attended as a representative of Vidarbha Cricket Association . " I ca n't disclose what happened at the meeting. All I can say is I was disillusioned with the happenings. I had gone there with the purpose of cleaning up the image of the Board in public domain , but I was disillusioned , " the 57-year-old Nagpur-based lawyer said . Manohar was outvoted 14-1 at the meeting when hand count was taken for the nomination of RG Raghavan , ex-CBI director , as one of the three members of the panel that was formed ( former cricketer Ravi Shastri and former chief justice of Kolkata high court RN Patel being the others ) by the Working Committee to probe into the spot-fixing and betting scandal in the Indian Premier League as per the Supreme Court 's directive . Manohar had kept himself out of the BCCI matters after his term ended in 2011 and was succeeded by Srinivasan before attending his first meeting of the Board on Sunday . The former BCCI chief had also opposed the name of Shastri because of conflict of interest as he 's a Board-contracted TV commentator and IPL governing council member . Prior to attending the meeting Manohar had lashed out at N Srinivasan , who has been forced to step aside as the Board president , saying the Tamil Nadu strongman was " shamelessly and stubbornly " sticking to his post . Gurunath Meiyappan , son-in-law of Srinivasan and alleged former team principal of IPL franchise Chennai Super Kings , owned by India Cements in which Srinivasan is the MD cum vice chairman , had been named as one of the accused in the scandal by Mumbai police . On April 16 , the Supreme Court , at its last hearing of the case , said Srinivasan 's name was the 13th in the enclosed list submitted along with its report by the apex-court appointed Justice Mudgal Committee , which had probed the scam . The names of Shastri , Raghavan and Patel would be submitted for approval of the Supreme Court which is hearing the IPL scandal , with the next hearing scheduled on Tuesday . The SC had directed the BCCI at the last hearing on April 16 to suggest names of persons who will conduct a " fair probe " into the IPL 6 spot-fixing and betting scandal . The apex court is expected to consider the suggestion by the BCCI and pass orders on the future course of the probe . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
