Mudgal panel to probe IPL spot-fixing scandal The author has posted comments on this article Dhananjay Mahapatra , TNN | May 17 , 2014 , 09.10AM IST SC has asked the Mudgal panel to submit report by end of August. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The Supreme Court on Friday appointed Justice Mukul Mudgal to probe the spot-fixing and betting allegations against some cricketers who played the Indian Premier League 2013 and inaction by Indian cricket board president N Srinivasan . The apex court bench of Justice AK Patnaik and Justice Fakkir Mohamed Ibrahim Kalifulla said Justice Mudgal will be assisted by senior IPS officer VB Mishra . Mishra is the deputy director general of the Narcotics Control Bureau ( NCB ) and will head the investigating team with Justice Mudgal , the court said . The team will have three police officers , one each from police forces from Delhi , Mumbai and Chennai . A past cricketer of repute will also be inducted in the probe team to assist Justice Mudgal . Except for arresting , the investigating team will have all the powers to call and examine the people and record their statements , the court said , adding the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) president N. Srinivasan will extend full cooperation to the team . The apex court asked the government to issue necessary notification for setting up the probe team and making available Mishra 's services . The court directed the matter to be listed in the first week of September , said Justice Mudgal. The report will be submitted in a sealed cover to the court and none of the members of the probe panel will disclose its contents to anyone or speak to the media , he said . On April 29 , Justice Mudgal agreed to undertake the probe into the allegations that surfaced in the course of an earlier inquiry conducted by him on the directions of the court . Justice Mudgal was asked by the apex court to undertake the investigation after it rejected the BCCI 's three-member probe panel comprising Kolkata High Court 's former chief justice JN Patel , Ravi Shastri and former CBI director RK Raghavan . -With inputs from IANS Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
