SC wants Mudgal panel to probe its charges against Srinivasan , players The author has posted comments on this article Dhananjay Mahapatra , TNN | Apr 23 , 2014 , 09.44AM IST Serious charges have been levelled against Srinivasan and 12 others , including top cricketers. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The Justice Mukul Mudgal panel , which inquired into spot-fixing and betting allegations in last year 's IPL , is all set to probe the serious charges that it had levelled against BCCI president N Srinivasan and 12 others , including top cricketers . These unverified charges were submitted to the Supreme Court in a sealed cover on February 9 by the panel along with its inquiry report into betting and spot-fixing allegations. It had found Srinivasan 's son-in-law Gurunath Meiyappan to be an official of Chennai Super Kings and guilty of betting . On Tuesday , a bench of Justices A K Patnaik and F M I Kalifulla asked senior advocate Gopal Subramaniam , who appeared for the probe panel , whether Justice Mudgal and his team would inquire into the serious charges , which needed to be thoroughly examined while maintaining confidentiality . Can not shut our eyes to allegations : SC The court said the panel could also suggest the names of a team of investigating officers whose assistance it would require to probe the unverified charges. " We will empower these officers for search and seizure operations , " the bench said . When contacted , Mudgal told TOI that he had conveyed the panel 's willingness to take up the assignment. This means the road is clear for the panel , which also comprises senior advocates L Nageswar Rao and Niloy Dutta . Before asking the committee to probe the charges against Srinivasan and 12 others , senior advocate AM Singhvi , who appeared for Cricket Association of Bihar , requested the court to discard the names of former CBI director RK Raghavan , former HC chief justice JN Patel and cricketer Ravi Shastri - names suggested by the BCCI - for probing the charges . Singhvi said Raghavan had told the Mudgal panel that he knew Srinivasan very well. He said Patel 's integrity was not in doubt but he being the brother-in-law of board interim president Shivlal Yadav must recuse himself. Singhvi said there would be conflict of interest for Shastri as the former cricketer had been contracted by the board for television commentary . After hearing Singhvi , the bench asked Subramaniam to find out from Mudgal whether he and his team , which probed the spot-fixing allegations , would be willing to inquire into the charges . Last week , the court had thrown some light on the sealed cover report. It had said , " There are 13 persons named in the report. Srinivasan 's name is the last in the list. Twelve others had played a very important role in cricket. But the committee has fairly stated that instances mentioned were only allegations and had not been verified. That is why it had been submitted in a sealed cover. " On Tuesday , Justices Patnaik and Kalifulla said it was unwilling to entrust the probe to either the police or the CBI , as both were " very badly managed " . The bench did not want investigation details getting into the media and harming the reputation of eminent people . " These allegations , having come to our notice , we can not shut our eyes to it. We can give notice to all departments and ask them to investigate the allegations. But then , that will be sullying the reputation of the eminent persons , " the bench had said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
