Sourav Ganguly joins Mudgal committee probe The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jun 19 , 2014 , 11.20AM IST The Supreme Court had directed the probe committee to take a cricketer of 'impeccable integrity ' on board to assist them on the cricketing matters related to the scandal. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Former India captain Sourav Ganguly has joined the Supreme Court-appointed Justice ( Retd ) Mukul Mudgal committee probing the allegations of betting and spot-fixing in the sixth Indian Premier League . Ganguly on Wednesday specially flew down to attend the proceedings as the full committee met for the first time . " Yes , Sourav joined the investigations today. It was the first time after his appointment that we met in person. The meeting took place at my office and I would like to think that discussions were indeed very fruitful , " Justice Mudgal said . " We had already sent the relevant documents that Sourav would have required to study before our meeting. He came well prepared. Beyond that I am not in a position to divulge anymore information. From now on any meeting of the committee will be held in my office , " he said . Other members in the committee are Additional Solicitor General L Nageswara Rao , senior advocate Niloy Datta and senior IPS officer B B Mishra . The Supreme Court had directed the probe committee to take a cricketer of 'impeccable integrity ' on board to assist them on the cricketing matters related to the scandal . Ganguly was the obvious choice as most of his other contemporaries like Sachin Tendulkar , Rahul Dravid , VVS Laxman and Anil Kumble are all part of various IPL franchises . Ganguly , who played IPL till 2012 , is well conversant with modern-day game and is widely regarded as one of the finest cricket brains in the country . The former skipper , however , has a packed schedule and will leave for England later this month to do television commentary during the five-Test series involving India . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
