1992 can repeat itself , says Pak coach Waqar Younis The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 13 , 2015 , 09.44AM IST Back-to-back wins in both their warm-up games in Sydney , against Bangladesh and England , have given the players and their coach Waqar Younis a shot in the arm. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : The Pakistani team arrived in Adelaide this afternoon in a positive frame of mind for the high-voltage match against India on Sunday. Back-to-back wins in both their warm-up games in Sydney , against Bangladesh and England , have given the players and their coach Waqar Younis a shot in the arm . Waqar said that after the twin Sydney wins , the Pakistani team has left behind the frustration of not doing well in recent past , especially in New Zealand . " The players are feeling comfortable and we think we have the right momentum to take into the opening game against India , " he said. Excerpts : Putting it across India.. . We needed the early momentum and confidence which we have now. India have always been tough opponents and we are not taking them lightly. We need to get up with a positive frame of mind on match day and look to put it across them this time . Repeat of 1992 triumph ? What happened in 1992 can happen again. A team that starts poorly can gain momentum and go on to win the World Cup. That is the beauty of this game . Tough conditions and need for veteran Younis Conditions are not easy in Australia and New Zealand , especially against two new balls. We need experienced players in the line-up and that 's where the utility of a player of the caliber of Younis Khan comes into focus. I think his role will be very crucial , not only to stabilize the batting but also to guide the youngsters . A young bowling unit Yes , the young bowlers have bowled well in the two warm-up matches. The wickets are a little conducive for pace bowling. The young bowlers in the team will not only learn , but hopefully deliver too in these conditions . Finding the right combination : It is difficult to find the right combination. Are you to go in with seven batsmen or use five bowlers ? We have to make a compromise here. Yes , we do not have the X-Factor of a batsman who can bowl fast. But ( Shahid ) Afridi is there in the allrounder 's position. He is batting well and can bowl his quota too. Anyhow , we have a couple of days more to sort out the right combination . Umar Akmal as 'keeper.. . Well , it has been tough on Umar. Sometimes we have given him the gloves , or played him as a batsman. It is not always easy to switch roles. But he has taken it well , keeping in mind the requirements of the team. In both the warmup games he batted beautifully. He proved his worth and adjusted in that dual role . Morale of the team : We are confident and will take inspiration from the 1992 triumph to go all the way . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
