Bringing crowds back biggest challenge : Srinivasan The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Aug 9 , 2014 , 10.05AM IST Srinivasan is currently the No. 1 man in world cricket. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : Composure is ICC chairman N Srinivasan 's middle-name. He has seen many difficult moments in his career as a business tycoon and top cricket administrator , but the 69-year-old hardly loses his cool . He is currently the No. 1 man in world cricket , running the show from his 10th floor office on Santhome High Road overlooking the Bay of Bengal. He took some time off from his busy schedule on Friday to have a chat with TOI about his role in ICC , the challenges that he has faced , both as a businessman and an administrator , and his plans . Excerpts : There have been three landmark take-overs in your career - Raasi Cements in 1990 as India Cements MD , BCCI and ICC. How do you compare the three ? When we took over Raasi , we felt that we should have a larger market share mainly in the south and in order to grow faster , acquisition was one of the routes. This can not be compared to cricket as there are no take-overs in sport. India Cements the company is a permanent entity but in public organizations like BCCI and ICC -all the terms are finite. So I ca n't say I have taken over BCCI and ICC . There was some opposition in you becoming the ICC chairman. How important will your role as ICC chairman be for India ? Members have unanimously elected me and that is what one should look at. My aim is to play a positive role in taking ICC forward. The next media rights for an eight-year cycle is coming up and we are closely monitoring the situation. During that time , three big events - the World T20 in 2016 , the Champions Trophy in 2021 and the 50-over World Cup in 2023 - will be played in India. In the past , we used to get one event in 16 to18 years , now there are three in eight years. It is a very significant development in Indian cricket and I feel it has not got the importance and attention that it deserves . How has your first month been as ICC chairman ? I met the senior management and tried to understand the functioning of the ICC from a different perspective. Earlier , I attended the chief executive meeting as BCCI secretary or executive board meeting as president of the BCCI. But now I am attending the executive board as the chairman of the ICC and it has a different perspective. I am having constructive interactions with the staff and am trying to identify the priorities going forward. The biggest challenge for me is to bring people back to the ground to watch matches. But for T20 cricket , in some countries less people are going to the stadium for ODIs and Tests. It 's not a healthy sign and needs an in-depth analysis and we are doing that. Another priority for me going forward is to improve the quality and skill of the top associates. We are encouraging them to get better so that the competitiveness increases at the highest level . The James Anderson-Ravindra Jadeja issue created quite a stir with the BCCI asking for review of the ICC Code of Conduct. What is your view on that ? If I reply to this , I will be giving a view without having the benefit of getting the views of other members. I had stepped aside as BCCI president and I told ICC I do n't want to be a part of it. It will be seen in due course whether there 's a need to review the code . The revenue sharing model that was proposed by you was not accepted initially by some of the other boards. Why were they reluctant to accept something which is apparently beneficial to all ? There was no reluctance on the part of other boards. Some of the other countries took a little time to study the proposals and they eventually saw it was fair. There was no attempt to deprive anybody of a legitimate share and the proposal recognized the contribution of all the parties. And if you see , more money has been made available for associates , Test funds have been created for seven countries so that hosting the longer version becomes more viable . The FTP has been revamped and India is supposed to play five Test series against England and Australia. Is that the way forward for India in Tests ? When the new revised structure was proposed , the thinking was there should be primacy given to Test cricket and all full members should be allowed to play the other. The advantage is that it is a committed FTP. It can cause a lot of strain , particularly because everybody wants India to tour. The economics of many members depends upon an India tour and I think the BCCI has been very fair . We have seen the tremendous appeal of T20. Why is the ICC reluctant to join the Olympic bandwagon ? ICC 's decision is dictated by its members. Whenever this issue has come up , several boards have not been in favour , including BCCI. Cricket is big and one also had to recognize that ICC events are huge global events and the principal event - World Cup - has a tremendous following. Under the circumstances , there was reluctance on the part of many members to join the Olympic bandwagon . Finally , there 's been a lot of support for you inside the BCCI. Come September , are we going to see you as the president of BCCI for the second term ? I am grateful for the support and I am happy that BCCI is such a close-knit family. But I am not in a position to answer the second part of your question . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
