Dhoni should play Ashwin : Farokh Engineer The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 6 , 2014 , 10.36AM IST Engineer is a huge fan of Indian captain MS Dhoni. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MANCHESTER : Farokh Engineer chose to join Lancashire in 1968 because he wanted to keep wickets to England 's legendary fast bowler Brian Statham . By his own admission , Engineer is a huge fan of Indian captain MS Dhoni . The flamboyant former wicketkeeper-batsman shared his thoughts with TOI in an exclusive interview . Excerpts.. . What are your impressions of India 's performance on the tour so far ? Having followed the India team , I can only say that at Trent Bridge it was a war of attrition and draw was a logical outcome. I thought India played far above expectations at Lord 's. I have n't seen too many pitches like that in England like the one that was on offer at Lord 's. Indian bowlers bowled beautifully and Ajinkya Rahane played a stand-out knock before England batsmen played those awful shots to gift their wickets and victory to India . Would you say India returned the 'favour ' in Southampton ? It is hard to believe that England lost at Lord 's on a tailor-made green top. India 's shocking batting display in the second innings in Southampton broke my heart. Some of the shots played were atrocious , especially when they were trying to save a Test match. Someone even got out trying to take a cheeky single ! Are you happy with Dhoni 's captaincy ? I think he has led well. The only area where I can fault him is team selection. I do n't know why Dhoni has not played Ashwin so far. Ashwin should do well here on a sporting pitch. For all his success against Indian batsmen , Moeen Ali remains a pretty ordinary bowler. Dhoni 's playing and handling of Stuart Binny at Lord 's did not make sense . What about his keeping ? He has improved as a wicketkeeper since 2011 , when India last played here , but I would like to see him standing up to take balls waist high. Only then can slip fielders position themselves correctly. Dhoni will also do well to rise with the ball and not get up too early. Also , standing back to Jadeja at Lord 's did n't make sense to me. Maybe , he lacked confidence to stand up . What did you make of the spat between Jadeja and Anderson , and its outcome ? Physical contact between two players can not be condoned. But if there is no conclusive proof of that , I think it is best to just get on with the game . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
