Effective communication is key : Simon Taufel The author has posted comments on this article Sunil Subbaiah , TNN | Aug 14 , 2014 , 11.34AM IST Simon Taufel is on a mission to improve the standard of umpiring in India. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 BANGALORE : Former ICC Elite panel umpire Simon Taufel is on a mission to improve the standard of umpiring in India . The five-time Umpire of the Year Taufel , who is now the International Cricket Council 's performance and training manager , is conducting a workshop for India 's top 100 umpires at the National Cricket Academy in Bangalore . The programme is aimed at enhancing the skills and knowledge of the umpires and mark out a path to the Elite panel. In an interview with TOI , Taufel , who retired from international duties in 2012 , shared his thoughts on the need to improve the communication between on-field and third umpires , quality . Excerpts : What is the focus of the umpires ' workshop ? It 's part of the ongoing development programme the BCCI is conducting with its umpires. We 're conducting a series of workshops for the best 100 umpires in India. What we 're focusing on particularly is the third-umpire work , match management , effective communication , and exploring how they can improve . You are keen on the umpires sharpening their communication skills.. . In a noisy game that might have 30,000 people , we want to keep the communication between on-field and third umpires short and concise by using agreed terminology to avoid confusions. We 're also working out on how to build better relationships with captains , coaches , administrators and umpires because umpiring is a team sport . What are your impressions on Indian umpires in the ICC Elite panel ? What 's really pleasing to see is that we 've got a very good panel of international umpires now in S Ravi , C Shamsuddin , Anil Chaudhary and Vineet Kulkarni , who are all extremely high-quality. They are getting better all the time and their competition is good . What are the challenges of umpiring in India ? Umpiring in India presents its own challenges. You 've got the environment , hot conditions -humid ones in Chennai for example -turning pitches , not much seam and bounce. You 've also got challenges outside the boundary -different food , the large distances you have to travel between matches . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
