Faulkner got his clothes off , says Haddin The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 31 , 2015 , 06.56PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Giving a peek into the Australian cricketers ' celebration after the World Cup triumph , Brad Haddin , who 's just announced retirement from One-Day International cricket , said all-rounder James Faulkner got his " clothes off " in the after party . In the trans-tasman final at the Melbourne Cricket Ground , Australia defeated New Zealand by seven wickets to lift their fifth World Cup title . " I 'll paint a picture for you now. I 've got James Faulkner who 's got his clothes off but do n't tell everyone , " Haddin was quoted as saying by 'cricket.com.au' . He added , " I 've got a coach who 's spooning the World Cup who ca n't speak. And I 've got the Marsh boys , and you know I ca n't even talk about the Marsh boys because you know what trouble they have . " I 've got Josh Hazlewood ... he 's never been drunk in 30 years. It 's a problem. We just ca n't get him drunk. He 's an absolute nightmare to drink with. " Asked about the send-offs to New Zealand opener Martin Guptill and Grant Elliot during the final and the constant sledging by the Australians , Haddin said : " You know what ? They deserved it. They were that nice to us in New Zealand ( during their match in the pool stages ) and we were that uncomfortable . " I said in the team meeting : 'I ca n't stand for this anymore. We 're going at them as hard as we can. I said , 'I 'm not playing cricket like this' . " If we get another crack at these guys in the final I 'm letting everything ( out ) . And I 'm not going to play another One-Day game so they can suspend me for as long as they like. " The 37-year-old wicketkeeper also said it was never his intention to offend anyone during a radio interview after the title win . Haddin spoke with a Sydney radio station yesterday after celebrating his team 's title triumph with his teammates throughout the night . " We were celebrating a World Cup win and enjoying ourselves after a long tournament. In hindsight , we should have stayed off the radio. If I offended anyone , it was never my intention. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
