Happy to see our bowlers ' effort at Lord 's : Zaheer Khan The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Jul 30 , 2014 , 07.00AM IST Zaheer looked every bit ready for the 'second new ball ' of his innings , which may arrive sooner than later. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Sometimes , the worst things in life teach us the most. So much have injuries troubled Zaheer Khan that he has actually found a way to deal with them which could be path-breaking for almost all sportspersons in the country . With his latest injury ( a side strain which ruled him out of the season during IPL 7 ) triggering massive question marks about the longevity of his glorious but injury-riddled career , the 35-year-old pace veteran has chosen the perfect time to launch a new venture - ProSport -a state-of-the-art fitness training and physiotherapy centre in the city . Zaheer looked every bit ready for the 'second new ball ' of his innings , which may arrive sooner than later . TOI caught up with him for an exclusive interview.. . How 's the rehabilitation going ? The second phase of my injury rehab will start in August. So far , I have n't bowled. I am looking forward to that . Are you confident of another comeback ? Well , I have to see how things go. As I start bowling , I have to see how far I 'm going , how my body is coping , whether I 'm able to sustain that pressure of highest level of cricket. Hundred Tests and another shot at with injuries , I 've let go of milestones a long time back. Since injures have played such a big part in my career , you do n't know what 's going to happen . Have you been following India 's fortunes in England ? I enjoyed the Lord 's win a lot. It was heartening to see our bowlers put so much effort. It was a team effort. I was happy to see the way Ajinkya Rahane dealt with pressure in trying conditions on that wicket. Amongst the bowlers , Bhuvneshwar Kumar exploited the conditions really well. He pitched the ball in the right areas , which is so important in the English conditions. Ishant Sharma 's effort ( 7-74 at Lords ' ) was really special too . Ishant 's performance must have been really pleasing.. . I keep talking to him. He 's a hardworking bloke. I 'm glad it happened at such a big stage. It was important for him to step up and be the senior bowler in the team , having played more than 50 Tests now. I 'm happy for him . But Mohammad Shami has struggled.. . It 's still early days for him. These are things you learn over a period of time. The guy has definitely got potential. His seam position is very good. You learn with experience. You have to give him time to learn . You seem excited about your latest venture.. . Sports rehab is not up to the standard here. I had lengthy talks with Adrian Le Roux ( ex-India trainer from South Africa ) and Andrew Leipus ( ex-India physio from Australia ) . I am glad they 've come on board. Through this , we are going to help people who are serious about training . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
