I hope to be part of the playing XI in Bangladesh : Akshar Patel The author has posted comments on this article Rohan Puri , TNN | Jun 5 , 2014 , 10.02AM IST Akshar has his sights set on the Bangladesh tour. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Kings XI Punjab owed their success in IPL 7 to the youngsters , with 20-year-old left-arm spinner Akshar Patel in particular impressing everyone with 17 wickets at an excellent economy of 6.13 and winning the 'emerging player ' award . Akshar , who now has his sights set on the Bangladesh tour , spoke to TOI in an exclusive interview . Excerpts.. . How does it feel to win the emerging player award ? It feels great. I am very proud that I have beaten so many deserving domestic and international players to win this award . How important has been the role of the captain and the coach behind your success ? I owe my success to both my captain George Bailey and coach Sanjay Bangar . Even Murali Kartik helped me a lot and used to give me bowling tips. George Bailey had a lot of faith in me and used to give me the ball in crunch situations. He gave me freedom and allowed me to set my own field. When the captain puts so much faith in you , it boosts your confidence and motivates you . Talking about the final , you posted a target of 200 and yet you lost. Where do you think the team 's strategy went wrong ? We posted a good total on the board. But our bowling was not up to the mark. We allowed them to get to a good start , score at 10 runs per over and were not able to restrict them . Did any batsman ever intimidate you in the IPL ? There is a little bit of pressure in the back of your mind since you know that this batsman is a hard hitter or a legend of the game. However , I never allowed that pressure to get to me. I used to stick to basics. Our bowling coach Joe Dawes made a lot of plans for different batsmen and I used to apply those and that is why my economy rate ( 6.13 ) has been good. Par agar aapka bad luck hain to kisi bhi bowler ko run pad sakte hain ( If your luck is bad anybody can hit you ) . I never thought much about that . How special was it to be a part of Kings XI Punjab this year ? It was special. It felt good to play alongside George Bailey , Glenn Maxwell and David Miller. The team performed as a unit and we used to enjoy playing together. For me it is special as I got selected in the Indian team for the Bangladesh tour and also won the emerging player award . Talking about the Bangladesh tour , what are your expectations from it ? I am hopeful of being a part of the playing XI. I am performing well. Obviously I will be nervous before my first match but I do n't want to take pressure. I will stick to basics and give my best. I treat myself as a bowling all-rounder so I can contribute with the bat as well . Who is your source of inspiration ? My father and my grandmother have been my inspiration. I used to speak to my parents before and after every match. It is my routine to seek their blessings before every match . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
