India desperately needed Ishant : Harmison The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 30 , 2014 , 06.50AM IST Harmison had played a key role in England 's Ashes win in 2005. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SOUTHAMPTON : He would have loved to bowl on the Ageas Bowl pitch , which continues to offer purchase to bowlers willing to bend their back . But the " happily retired " Steven James Harmison has no intentions of testing his broad shoulders. The 6'4' ' tall and burly fast bowler , who played a key role in England 's Ashes win in 2005 , shared his thoughts on the game during an exclusive chat with TOI . Excerpts.. . Do you feel there is excessive workload on bowlers , particularly pacers , these days ? No question about that , simply because there has been a sharp rise in the quantum of cricket being played worldwide. It is a young man 's sport now. I am happy to note that team managements are alive to the situation and getting the balance right between playing and resting their pacers . Are you surprised by the number of overs that pacers have already bowled in this series ? India and England both have good bowling attacks. The only problem is England do n't have a spinner and India , despite having someone like R Ashwin , are reluctant to play him . Would you say that pitches have not been up to the mark in the series ? In recent times , pitches in England have left rival teams confused. They are a lot drier and flatter than they used to be. It 's as if the life has been sucked out of them. I think the one at Trent Bridge was a bit of a shame , but the Lord 's pitch was a good one for seamers like Bhuvneshwar Kumar. The one here at the ` Bowl ' is my type of surface , where you need to hit the deck hard. India needed Ishant Sharma here badly , even though I was impressed by Pankaj Singh , who bowled much better than his figures suggest . Is Anderson , who is fast closing in on Ian Botham 's tally of 383 Test wickets , the best England bowler ? He has always been a very skillful bowler with a loaded arsenal. He has matured into a lethal bowler who uses the conditions well. Very few fast bowlers go on to play 100 Tests. Jimmy is three short of becoming only the second England pacer after Ian Botham to do so. He has had a wonderful career and is right up there with the best in the business . As a former player , do n't you think there is more official intervention these days when it comes to flare-ups between players on the field ? I think it is only fair that the ICC steps in whenever players or teams break the rules. Same with issues like match-fixing. The game has to be respected . What 's your take on the Anderson-Jadeja spat and its fallout ? I think too many people have already reacted when they had no business to do so as they were nowhere near the scene of the incident. Only those who were involved know what exactly happened. If someone did cross the line , he should be punished. Personally , though , I never believed in taking onfield issues beyond the boundary rope . Are you backing England to win the series ? I reckon they will win 2-1 if Alastair Cook and his team manages to level it 1-1 here . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
