India have big-game temperament : Lance Klusener The author has posted comments on this article Prasad RS , TNN | Mar 17 , 2015 , 10.15AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Holding one 's nerve during crunch situations is something of critical importance in an event like the World Cup , especially when the tournament enters the knockout phase. One man who was known for his brilliance during demanding situations is former South African all-rounder Lance Klusener . Zulu , as he is nicknamed , averaged 140.50 with the willow in the 1999 World Cup , but is unfortunately remembered for the shot that ended his team 's campaign in that tournament. With just one run needed to win the semis against Australia , Klusener played it back to the bowler , leading to a mix-up with Allan Donald who was run out and South Africa tied the contest. Australia sneaked into the finals , thanks to their superior net run-rate . " In hindsight , I wish I was more patient and helped the side make the final. But that 's the beauty of the game. You win some , lose some , " said Klusener while speaking to TOI on Monday. Was that loss the lowest point in his career ? " Yes , that loss did hurt a lot , " Klusener admitted . In many ways , that defeat prompted critics to coin the chokers ' tag which continues to haunt the Proteas till date. Come Wednesday , South Africa will battle it out against Sri Lanka for a place in the semis as it tries to shed the 'C ' tag. " To me , South Africa is a well-balanced side capable of going all the way. But , it will all depend on how they raise their game with the tournament entering the all-important phase , " noted the 43-year-old . If there is one side that has impressed Klusener , it has got to be the Men in Blue. " Have n't they performed at a different level altogether ? " he asked , before adding , " They have brought in their 'A ' game when it mattered the most. " What is the one particular facet that has worked in the Indian team 's favour in the tournament ? " There are many things which have worked for MS Dhoni 's side. But , if I were to pinpoint on one particular aspect then it will have to be their big-tournament temperament , " Klusener said . Elaborating on this , Klusener said , " Not many teams are used to playing in front of crowds in excess of 50-60,000. But this Indian team is. To be able to hold on to your own and deliver the goods in front of vociferous spectactors is something India is capable of. " However , Klusener is n't ready yet to put a finger on any particular favourites. " From now on , whoever plays well on the given day progresses. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
