India have their work cut out : Glenn McGrath The author has posted comments on this article Ehtesham Hasan , TNN | Aug 20 , 2014 , 12.23PM IST Glenn McGrath 's impeccable 124-Test career ended in 2006-07 with 563 victims to his name. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : The irony ca n't be missed when you see Australia Tourism brand ambassador , Glenn McGrath , welcoming Indian tourists Down Under to watch the cricket action unfold later this year . As he reels off names of exotic places , the mind jogs back to the years when he made batsmen feel unwelcome in Australia with his no-holds-barred verbal volleys . It did n't end there. He translated his strong words into wickets and , along the way become one of cricket 's all-time greats . " In my 14-year-career I 've featured in only two series defeats and on both occasions it was against India. The one-off Test at Delhi in 1996 and the 2001 series , " he says of his impeccable 124-Test career , which ended in 2006-07 with 563 victims to his name . Excerpts from an interview to TOI : Do you see this Indian team challenging Australia ? We 've seen England dominate the last three Tests , which is n't a good sign. Indian teams have always struggled in Australia because of the extra bounce and seam movement. It has always been an issue for them , but I think the bowlers do enjoy playing in Australia. If the Australian team plays the way it did against England last year , then it will be a tough series for India considering they have a fair bit of work to do. Their fielding in England was horrendous. You ca n't afford to drop three or four catches every game. With Mitchell Johnson bowling at 150 , and with control , India have their work cut out. Tour matches will be important for India . The Aussies love to see their team being challenged ? They did enjoy Australia beating England 5-0. Yeah , they want to see challenging cricket , not one-sided affairs like it happened in England . You were never afraid to back yourself publicly...targeting the main batsman of the opposing team. Where did this confidence come from ? I always had that self-belief. Growing up on a farm you are instilled with certain work ethics. When I was seven , I was working on the farm and driving tractors and cars. It gives you confidence as well. I enjoyed the challenge that is why I liked to make predictions and target batsmen. I believed I was good enough to deliver. But if they were good to beat me at my game , I could live with it. If you like to be like anyone else , you do what everyone else does. If you want to be different or better than everyone else , then you need to do something apart from them . You are one of the few fast bowlers who played 100-plus Tests. You think there 'll be fewer bowlers reaching the landmark in the post T20 era ? It is tough bowling day-in and day-out. There were few things that kept me in good stead right through my career. I did n't bowl a great deal when I was younger. I was prepared to work as hard as possible off the field and that made my life easier on it. The idea was to get fit and very strong. I could handle the rigors of fast bowling quite well. You need an off season to recharge the batteries. Probably genetics , too , played a role in my case. My bone density is very high and that helped me get through injuries. I just wanted to bowl , every second over of the innings. I wanted to play every game and I never wanted to be rested. That is the attitude you got to have. You got work hard off the field to get through on it . What are your views on the Anderson-Jadeja spat ? I think that was a big turning point in the series. The England team steeled themselves after that. India were leading 1-0 but they got distracted. They were talking more about that than executing their on-field plans. England went from strength to strength and India went from bad to worse. You need to put these things behind when you enter the field . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
