India 's best chance to beat England : Sourav Ganguly The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 4 , 2014 , 08.54AM IST Ganguly expects Dhoni 's boys to turn the tables on England this time around. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : Three years ago Team India , under Mahendra Singh Dhoni , went through a dark English summer during which they were white washed 4-0 by a dominant England . Indians fared not much better in the return series in the winter of 2013 , losing 1-2 at home. Dhoni and his 'young brigade ' are back in England for a rare five-Test series that gets under way at Trent Bridge , in Nottingham , on July 9 . Former India captain Sourav Ganguly , who will be commentating on the series , reckons it will be a fascinating contest between bat and ball and expects Dhoni 's boys to turn the tables on England this time around . Excerpts from an exclusive interview : Given the recent dip in form of both teams , how do you see the five-Test series panning out ? The teams look evenly matched on paper and I expect the series to be anything but one-sided this time. In my book , this is India 's best chance of beating England in England in a Test series which we have n't done since 2007 . What has changed between 2011 , when England had whitewashed India 4-0 , and now ? England are clearly no longer the side they were in 2011. They have lost key players like Kevin Pietersen , Graeme Swann , Andrew Strauss and Jonathan Trott. After the unexpected retirement of off-spinner Swann last year , England are yet to find a quality spinner. That is surely an area of concern for skipper Alastair Cook. It could have a huge bearing on the upcoming s series . With Cook out of form , would you say England 's batting too looks suspect ? Cook is too good a player to be written off after a poor series , or two. He will bounce back. They also have Ian Bell , who has always scored big against India. Then there is Joe Root , who is a fine young batsman. Moeen Ali too has been impressive . Have n't India too lost big players like Sachin Tendulkar , Rahul Dravid and VVS Laxman through retirements ? True , but India have a string of good young batsmen like Rohit Sharma , Virat Kohli , Cheteshwar Pujara and Shikhar Dhawan , who have done well in Test cricket. India may be a bit short on experience , but this could a big series for our youngsters to announce their arrival on the big stage. In bowling , too , India have good balance as we have a better spin attack than England . Is n't it a matter of concern that barring Dhoni , Gambhir and Ishant none of the others have played in England before ? True , but these kids have played recently in New Zealand , where the conditions are similar to those in England , and also in South Africa where pitches have more bounce and carry. They are quality players and I expect them to come good. It 's a matter of making small adjustments which , I am sure , will be made . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
