It 's possible to bowl doosra legally : Saqlain The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 19 , 2014 , 10.31AM IST Saqlain managed to keep chucking allegations at bay by not bending his elbow beyond the permissible 15 degrees. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : It is hard to say who invented the 'doosra ' but what can be said with certainty is that Pakistan 's Saqlain Mushtaq was one of the earliest exponents of this art in international cricket . Saqlain managed to keep chucking allegations at bay by not bending his elbow beyond the permissible 15 degrees and not jerking his arm like Saaed Ajmal . As the 'doosra ' became an integral part of an off-spinner 's armoury , there were few like England 's Graeme Swann , who stuck to the classical gharana of spinning the ball from off to leg stump . So , when the two practitioners of the art , both now retired , ran into each other at the Lord 's media centre on Friday , it made for a rare photo-op . After exchanging pleasantries with Swann , Saqlain shared his thoughts on the art of spin bowling with TOI . Excerpts : Many reckon you were the first to bowl the 'doosra ' on international stage. Do you regret it led to a sharp rise in chucking cases involving off-spinners trying to emulate you ? Not at all. In fact , I consider myself fortunate to have developed the doosra ( an off-spinner 's googly ) . And I did it within the parameters laid down by the ICC. I showed the world that it is possible for a right-arm off-spinner to make the ball go away from a right-hand batsman with the same action without illegally bending the elbow . Would you approve of young and inexperienced off-spinners trying to bowl doosras ? You have to start early because once muscles are developed fully , it is hard to make changes to bowling actions. I am all for exposing wannabe off-spinners to this art quite early in their playing career . After doosra , we now have the carom ball. Does n't it bother you that off-spin is now a dying art ? I do n't think that the art of off-spin is dying. I am very happy that someone thought of the carom ball and I am sure we will see more options being developed. By adding variations , a bowler increases his chances of getting wickets . How tough is it to master the doosra ? It is a craft that needs to be practiced. It took me hours of practice and there was no one to guide me. With proper guidance and practice it is possible to develop good control over doosra . Does n't it require specialised coaching ? It does. I am baffled that international teams have separate coaches for batting , bowling and fielding but none for spinners. It is a shame because spinners have taken more wickets in Tests and ODIs in recent times than pace bowlers . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
