The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Sep 9 , 2014 , 01.50PM IST Malinga negotiated with SLC to make the board pay more from the money it receives from CLT20 to those Southern Express players who do n't have a central contract. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : When Sri Lanka 's ace fast bowler Lasith Malinga chose to play for Mumbai Indians over Southern Express - a team he led to the Lankan domestic T20 title a while back - in the upcoming Oppo Champions League T20 , he was criticized for preferring a 'foreign ' club . However , there was something the seamer with the blonde hair did for his Southern Express teammates they will remember for a long time. He negotiated with Sri Lanka Cricket ( SLC ) to make the board pay more from the money it receives from CLT20 to those Southern Express players who do n't have a central contract . On the eve of the Lankan T20 team 's departure to India from Colombo , Southern Express skipper Jehan Mubarak spoke about Malinga 's gesture , and about his side 's prospects in the CLT20 . Excerpts.. . What do you have to say about Malinga 's act of not playing for your team but still battling to ensure better payment for players ? It shows what kind of a human being he is. He was criticized for choosing club over country but look , at the end of the day we are all contracted players. Malinga 's contract with MI made it imperative for him to play for them in CLT20. However , he knows how difficult it is to survive as a professional cricketer in Sri Lanka , especially as a domestic cricketer. Malinga 's compassionate gesture will allow some players to focus on the game without worrying about the money part . Your team will surely miss him.. . Yes , and to make it worse we will have to face him ( laughs ) ! He is very hard to get away , especially in this format. However , I think we will do better against him than most teams , considering that we have played him a lot in the nets. You may not see him bowling so yorkers against us. Also , he has been the one devising all our strategies. I may just end up asking him in the middle where I can hit him for six ! The positive part is we have Tillakaratne Dilshan instead of him in the side. I 'm hoping Dilshan will have the same effect with the bat as Malinga would have had with the ball . Will you have a word with Dishan about the 'Shehzad episode ' ? I have n't seen the video , and knowing Dilshan , I know he does n't take these things seriously. I will , though , speak with him about this . In April 2012 , you were arrested for a while after meeting with a terrible accident which killed a motorcyclist. How big a setback was that ? It affected my personal life but it taught me to value cricket more. I worked harder on my game. After this incident , I wanted to utilize each and every chance I got. It made me give my 100 % every time I stepped on the field. And you can see the results - I made more than 1000 runs at an average of 105 last year in domestic cricket . At 33 , do you think you can make a national comeback ? I did n't utilize my chances well. Unfortunately , in our part of the world , age becomes a big factor but I still believe I can make a comeback if performance is given weightage . You were a national swimming champion as a youngster. How difficult was it to prefer cricket to swimming ? The choice is n't difficult if you are in Sri Lanka ( laughs ) ! As a swimmer , I was on my own. There was no one to support or cheer me , unlike in cricket. Swimming , however , made me fitter and inculcated in me discipline and self-motivation. All this helped me become a better cricketer . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
