MS Dhoni proud of honorary army position The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Sep 4 , 2014 , 01.34PM IST Dhoni recalled that it his father 's strict nature that taught him respect and punctuality. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Did you know winning the 2011 World Cup was not proudest moment of MS Dhoni 's life. It was when he accepted the rank of honorary lieutenant colonel in the Parachute Regiment . In a freewheeling interview with a cricket website , Dhoni said , " From when I was a young boy , I read books on weapons and tanks and combat. I was so interested in the army. Then later , my profile as an Indian cricketer allowed me access to the real thing so I spent time with soldiers. I had friends in the Special Forces and heard their stories of missions , the risks they take , the commitment they must have to succeed. I met the chief of the Army Staff and told him about my lifelong fascination with the military. I asked if it was possible to become involved myself. Incredible as it may seem , he took a recommendation through various channels that finished up with the president of the country. The result of all this is was that I became an honorary lieutenant colonel. " About his choice for the Parachute Regiment , Dhoni said , " I have made a real study of manoeuvres , of geography and physics , and of mental application to various challenges. I had the choice of four regiments but chose a fifth , the Parachutes , because it is a hundred per cent volunteer regiment. I felt I would be able to contribute more with them later in life. I believe I know enough to justify the honour and was worthy of it. One day I will train with them and I will jump with them too because I am keen to truly earn my wings. " Dhoni , in the interview , also revealed his love for his country . " I tell my wife she is only the third most important thing after my country and my parents , in that order. " In the conversation , Dhoni also came out with nuggets revealing his personality . " My wife wants me to eat fish , she says it is delicious. But I do n't like fish , so that is that. I find liquor has a bitter taste , so I do n't drink alcohol but understand that other people enjoy it. I care most about how people live their lives , what choices they make and how they get the best from themselves. This is why people such as Amitabh Bachchan , Sachin ( Tendulkar ) and Rahul ( Dravid ) are my heroes. And I love young talent , Ajinkya Rahane for instance , and urge him to be himself , to trust his talent and allow it to work for him within the parameters of his capabilities. " Dhoni recalled that it his father 's strict nature that taught him respect and punctuality . " When I was young I was closer to my mother but while I was in Class 12 the reason for my father 's reference to discipline became clear to me. Exams were due and I needed to study but the last day of preparation coincided with a big cricket match. I asked him what I should do. In turn , he asked if I was ready for the exam , which I felt I was. 'With only 24 hours to go you will either be ready or you will not. Go and play, ' he said , 'and have some fun for there is nothing more you can do in your studying. ' In other words , you now have your priorities in order. " Dhoni had high praise for his wife to share . " Sakshi provides the spark I might sometimes need. She is the person to whom I have reference. She is both loving and inspirational. Sometimes she travels with me but cricket is easier without having to ensure her safe passage. One day , we will see the sights together and she says that then , can she please move to number two on the list of my priorities ! But for the moment I am here to play cricket. I have been given this honour to play for my country so I want to see it through. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
