No one can fill Tiger 's shoes : Sharmila Tagore The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 17 , 2014 , 12.01PM IST Sharmila is in London on ECB 's invitation to give away the Pataudi Trophy to the winning captain of the ongoing series. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Elegant. Beautiful. Charming. Classy. Sharmila Tagore is all that...and much more . England and Indian cricket boards could n't have found a better ambassador for the sport than the late Mansur Ali Khan Pataudi 's charming begum , who is also a cine artiste of international repute . Sharmila , who is here on ECB 's invitation to give away the Pataudi Trophy to the winning captain of the ongoing series , spoke exclusively to TOI on her family 's involvement in the series and 'Tiger ' , who is universally acknowledged as India 's finest captain and the man whom she misses dearly . Excerpts : How does it feel to be back here at The Oval after exactly three years ? Everything seems just the same. It looks like England will retain the Pataudi trophy. The only difference is that Tiger will not be here. I am here for him. My son Saif ( Ali Khan ) and daughter-in-law ( Kareena ) will be joining me too . The 2011 experience was n't a particularly a good one , but Tiger was very dignified about it.. . That is Tiger for you. There was clearly a communication gap between the sponsors and the organisers. Mike Atherton , who conducted the post-match presentations , had not been briefed about the trophy , so he concluded the presentations without the Pataudi trophy being awarded. I was very upset , but Tiger refused to make a fuss and agreed to hand over the trophy to the victorious England captain Andrew Strauss outside their dressing room after the ECB arranged it . The Pataudi Trophy sure has a lot of history attached to it.. . It does. And contrary to the general notion , it is not so much about our family but India-England cricket ties. The ECB decided to institute this trophy in 2007 to mark 75 years of cricketing ties between the two nations. It was named Pataudi Trophy because Iftikhar Ali Khan Pataudi , played for England as well as India. And his son , Tiger , captained India . Would you say that Tiger was the reason why you started loving cricket ? No , I used to be fond of cricket even before I knew Tiger. You can say that cricket helped to strengthen the bond. Of late , I have realized that I 'm following cricket much more than when Tiger was around. Many of Tiger 's friends and close associates are in touch with me. Not a Christmas or New Year has passed when I have n't got a card from them. And I have reciprocated. Only a few days back I met cricket writers John Woodcock and Robin Marlar . What would be the one thing about Tiger that you would like to share with his fans , readers ? Tiger hated talking about his loss of vision in one eye. He refused to dwell on the handicap even though his average fell from 60 to 30 after the car crash. In the family too it was forbidden to talk about it. I wish Tiger had been here in person to do the honours. We are all here , but nobody can fill his shoes. There will not be another person like him . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
