Our World Cup not over , insists England 's Morgan The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 7 , 2015 , 11.00AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : England captain Eoin Morgan is confident his beleaguered team are good enough to revive a faltering World Cup campaign , saying they are under no pressure despite facing two must-win games . Morgan 's side , who have just one win in four Pool A matches , must defeat both Bangladesh in Adelaide on Monday and minnows Afghanistan in Sydney on March 13 to remain in contention for a quarter-final place But even that may not be enough if Bangladesh , who have five points to England 's two , upset co-hosts New Zealand in Hamilton on March 13 to squeak through to the last eight . Morgan rubbished suggestions England had not been ruthless -- or nasty -- enough and insisted the hurdles in front of them can be cleared if they play good cricket . " When a side loses , a thousand theories come up so the best thing for us moving forward is to concentrate on what we can do , " Morgan said Saturday . " If we start winning games , being nasty or not nasty does not matter. We need to be ourselves. The answers are within us . " We have to play our style of cricket. We have to be ruthless enough to do the simple things consistently well. We have not done that , that 's why we have struggled. " England 's lone win has been against minnows Scotland , but their most embarrassing moment came last Sunday when Sri Lanka chased down what seemed a reasonably challenging target of 310 with nine wickets and 16 deliveries to spare . Morgan said England had moved on from that loss and looked forward to their two remaining group games . " The guys are quite relaxed , " he said. " The week 's break has given us time to reflect and analyse what happened during the Sri Lanka game . " There were a few positives in that game too. Scoring 300 was one. Joe Root 's century was outstanding and we were brilliant in the last 10 to 12 overs with the bat , " the former Ireland batsman added . " But our bowling was a bit of a concern. We bowled some bad balls and were less attacking with the ball then we usually would have been . England have lost only two of their 15 one-day internationals against Bangladesh , but Morgan said he did not expect an easy game . " We certainly are not taking a win for granted , " he said. " They have come a long way in the last 10 years and we have played a lot against them. But a lot of focus going forward is going to be on us . " If we play well , I have every confidence we can win this game. The illusion of making it a bigger game than it is , is probably the wrong thing to do. " Morgan refused to confirm speculation that hard-hitting batsman Alex Hales will replace the struggling Gary Ballance to lend solidity to the top order . " There is not very much to choose between Gary and Hales , " he said. " A lot of time a player can be twice the player he is when he is not playing , particularly when someone is not doing well . " It 's a big decision to change anyone in the side , so it wo n't be made quickly. " Morgan said he expected his two pace spearheads , James Anderson and Stuart Broad , to come good after managing just four wickets between them in four matches . " They are exceptional bowlers but in tandem they have not been consistent enough to put the ball in the right areas , " he said. " The guys are training really , really hard to do it . " But they have not managed to take wickets early enough. They are not at their best at the moment. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
