There was no pressure from anyone , asserts Kallis The author has posted comments on this article Shayan Acharya , TNN | Aug 1 , 2014 , 06.55AM IST Jacques Kallis now wants to help Kolkata Knight Riders clinch their third IPL crown before taking his pads off for the final time. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 JAIPUR : Jacques Kallis was mentally prepared to take the tough call. After retiring from all international cricket - he had retired from Tests earlier - the South African legend decided to spend some quality time in the lap of nature at the Kruger National Park . After hanging up his boots from the longer format last December , Kallis had wanted to carry on in ODIs till the 2015 World Cup but now he says he has realised every good thing must come to an end . In an exclusive chat with TOI a day after his retirement , Kallis made it clear that he had no regrets after calling time on his international career. Kallis now wants to help Kolkata Knight Riders clinch their third IPL crown before taking his pads off for the final time . Excerpts.. . A long innings finally comes to an end. What made you take such a decision months before the World Cup ? When I played my last Test match in December last year and scored a hundred I really thought that I had it in me to continue till the next World Cup. I really believed that. But I went to Sri Lanka and realized that it was becoming difficult. I have given my best for my country over the years and during that series I just knew that this was it. That led to the decision . Cricket South Africa ( CSA ) has time and again indicated that it is time for youngsters to fill in the gap. Was there any message from selectors ? No , it was my personal decision. I was ready to stop playing international cricket. There was no pressure whatsoever . You always wanted to be a part of a World Cup-winning side.. . I know it is the right time for me to hang up my boots. I have no regrets . What next for one of the game 's greatest all-rounders ? I am not sure yet whether I will take up a coaching job or something like that. This is all very new at the moment. I need to sit down and think about what I am going to do now . Even after retiring from international cricket , you will continue playing the Big Bash and IPL.. . Yes , I will be playing for Kolkata Knight Riders. They are like my Indian family. I have always given my best for Knight Riders and will continue to do so. Motivation comes from within , and believe me , I want to try help Knight Riders win the IPL again. Would n't it be great to help them win three IPL titles ? With you and Graeme Smith out of the SA side , how do you see the team faring in the World Cup ? I think they have a really nice squad , with a varied quality of players. I think they will do well Down Under . Having played with legends like Sachin Tendulkar and Brian Lara , how would you rate yourself ? I would n't like to answer that. They are both great cricketers and lovely people , so there 's no comparison with them. I would like to think that we all assisted our teams in winning games . You have never cut it as a captain. Does that hurt ? No. Not at all. I never saw myself as captain. I filled in when the team needed me. That was it . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
