World Cup 2015 : Australia must play swing better , says Michael Clarke The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 28 , 2015 , 04.53PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Australia captain Michael Clarke said his side had to bat better against swing bowling if they were to win the World Cup after a top-order collapse ultimately proved decisive in a dramatic one-wicket defeat by New Zealand . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Clarke 's men were bundled out for just 151 after he won the toss in a Pool A clash against fellow tournament co-hosts New Zealand at Auckland 's Eden Park on Saturday , with left-arm swing bowler Trent Boult taking a career-best five for 27 . " We were extremely poor , there is no doubt about that , " said Clarke. " I think credit needs to go to New Zealand bowlers. They bowled really well . " They swung the ball nicely and bowled good areas , but our shot selection was very poor , and I thought our defence more than anything else was an area that was a lot poorer than we would have liked . " I think moving forward the balls are going to swing and we 've got work to do with the bat. That 's for sure. " Australia were well-placed at 80 for one , with opener David Warner ( 34 ) and Shane Watson ( 23 ) adding 50 for the second wicket before a rapid collapse saw eight wickets lost for just 26 runs . It was only because of a last-wicket stand of 45 between Brad Haddin ( 43 ) and Pat Cummins ( seven not out ) that Australia avoided their lowest World Cup total of 129 , against India at Chelmsford in 1983 . That Australia almost pulled off a stunning win was down to a brilliant bowling effort led by left-arm paceman Mitchell Starc 's career-best six for 28 . Starc took two wickets in as many balls before last man Boult blocked the final two deliveries of the 23rd over . The first ball of the next over saw Kane Williamson ( 45 not out ) strike the winning six off paceman Pat Cummins . Clarke insisted Australia had n't given up hope of victory after they were dismissed inside 33 overs . " I made it clear to the boys that I thought we had enough runs , and I think you have to do that certainly as captain of the team , " he said . " You have to back your bowlers. We 've got a fantastic attack. All the guys have individual skill and talent , there is no doubt about it. And I think you 've seen a good glimpse of that with the way Starcy bowled today . " So the faith was there , there was no doubt about it. And we just had to execute. I think we did that. " " Starc to me was a standout today. That individual performance was as good as you 'll see in any form of the game. " Clarke , who holed out off Boult in his first international game since December last year following a hamstring injury , added : " I 'd like some more runs. I 'm no different from the other top six batters. We were disappointing today , and my shot selection was poor. " The win moved New Zealand into the quarter-finals with four wins in as many games , while Australia have three points in three , after Saturday 's match followed a 111-run win over England and a wash-out with Bangladesh . Clarke said the lengthy flights involved threatened to be the biggest challenge facing Australia in the remainder of their group campaign . " The toughest part of the next few games for us is the flying time , I think , " he said . " We 've got eight-and-a-half hours travel time to Perth tomorrow , " said Clarke , whose team next play Afghanistan on March 4 . " Then another five hours back to Sydney , " said Clarke of the match against Sri Lanka on March 8 . " So recovery is going to be the key. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
