World Cup 2015 : Big six a dream come true for Elliott The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 24 , 2015 , 06.15PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : New Zealand 's Grant Elliott realised a childhood dream when he belted South African speedster Dale Steyn into the stand for six at Eden Park on Tuesday to get his adopted homeland into the World Cup final . South African-born Elliott gave a brief celebratory wave as the ball sailed into the crowd before running to comfort a distraught Steyn , who lay sprawled on the ground . The winning runs came on the penultimate ball of the rain-affected match where New Zealand were set a revised target of 298 under the Duckworth/Lewis method after South Africa had made 281 for five . The Black Caps will now meet the winner of Thursday 's Australia-India semi-final in Sydney , in Sunday 's final in Melbourne . New Zealand needed 12 off the last over to win a thrilling semi-final and Elliott said it was a nerve-wracking experience sealing a four-wicket victory with probably the best shot of his career , given what was at stake . " I guess it was. I really did feel the pressure , " said Elliott , who finished on 84 not out. " I had two balls to try and take us home. I knew that four runs would do it because a tie was as good as a win . " I think the chase , we probably left it a little bit late and it was stressful towards the end. It would have been nice to win with an over to go " Elliott said he had always wanted to play in a World Cup since 1992 when his mother let him stay home to watch Australia play South Africa in Sydney in what was the Proteas ' inaugural appearance at the tournament . " I got suspended from cricket and from school for a while because I did that , but it left a massive impression on me , " said Elliott , who turned 36 last weekend . " I thought that tournament , the coloured clothing and everything was what I wanted to do and it 's funny how life works. It 's amazing to be at Eden Park today to hit the winning run. " Although Elliott has immersed himself in New Zealand culture since leaving South Africa in 2001 , he said he still felt sorry for the Proteas , adding that was why he tried to console Steyn and helped him to his feet . " You have to feel compassion. Humble in victory , humble in defeat. I felt quite sorry for him. I felt quite sorry for a lot of the South African guys for losing the game , " said Elliott , who made his New Zealand debut seven years ago . " It could have been us. It could have been me sitting there having missed the last two balls and I would have been pretty gutted as well along with 40,000 people in the stadium. " South Africa were on course for a huge total , at 216 for three in the 38th over , when the rain set in . " That was a key moment in the game , " Elliott said . " You do n't know what they would have scored but it was a very good batting wicket and they were set . " But 298 was a tough score in 43 overs as well. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
