World Cup 2015 : De Villiers wicket pumps up Sohail Khan The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 9 , 2015 , 12.29PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Pakistan paceman Sohail Khan said Monday that taking the wicket of South African master blaster AB de Villiers would inspire him to greater heights at the World Cup . Sohail , who turned 31 on Friday , celebrated his birthday in style a day later when he dismissed the South Africa skipper who was threatening to take the Pool B match away from Pakistan in Auckland . Sohail produced a back of a length delivery which de Villiers edged to wicketkeeper Sarfraz Ahmed to end a blistering innings of 77 . It was a dismissal that all but sealed Pakistan 's third win in five pool matches , leaving South Africa nine wickets down , before Pakistan-born No 11 Imran Tahir was last man out as Misbah-ul-Haq 's side won by 29 runs . " He ( de Villiers ) was taking the match away , so when I came to bowl with around 30-odd runs left to defend I bowled one full length delivery and then a back of a length and my word , I was thrilled to see he edged it to the keeper , " Sohail told AFP . " It was a big wicket , the biggest of my career so far because his is a big name , the world 's top batsman , " the seamer added. " That helped us win the game and we were all delighted with that wicket. " Sohail said he believed de Villiers ' wicket would act as a springboard for further success . " Now I have more confidence and I want a five-for in the next game , " said Sohail of Pakistan 's group-stage finale against Ireland in Adelaide on March 15 . That game will decide Pakistan 's fate in Pool B with Ireland , the West Indies and South Africa also in the hunt for a quarterfinal spot behind already qualified defending champions India . Sohail , who took five for 55 in the team 's tournament-opening loss to India , said Pakistan 's bowlers had performed with plenty of passion against South Africa . " We bowled as per the plan given to us by the coach ( Waqar Younis ) and the skipper ( Misbah ) and bowled with a lot of heart and energy , " said Sohail who finished with one for 36 in his five overs . He added that if the Pakistan attack maintained that form they would go far at this World Cup . " We have that will and the passion , so if we keep bowling like that , support each other , then we can go a long way in the tournament. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
