World Cup 2015 : Flower warns Pakistan to shape up or ship out The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 12 , 2015 , 12.18PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Pakistan 's batting coach Grant Flower hoped the under-achieving middle-order will come good in Sunday 's must-win World Cup clash against Ireland in Adelaide , saying another failure could prove disastrous . With both teams on three wins from five matches , the winner will advance to the quarterfinals , while the loser 's fate will likely be decided by run-rates against the West Indies . Pakistan 's batsmen have crossed 250 just once in the tournament when they hammered 339 for six against the amateurs from the United Arab Emirates at Napier . Misbah-ul Haq 's team were bowled out for 224 by India , 160 by the West Indies and 222 by South Africa , and were even restricted to 235 for seven by Zimbabwe . Flower , the former Zimbabwean batsman who joined the Pakistan team management a year ago , said another meagre total could mean the end of the campaign . " I would like to believe our best is yet to come , " he said. " If we do n't , I do n't think we will go much further in the tournament . " I do expect the batsmen to deliver. That is what they are there for. They can bat a lot better than they have. " Pakistan revived their faltering campaign with a stunning 29-run win over South Africa in a rain-effected match in Auckland after the bowlers dismissed the Proteas for 202 . Misbah has been the lone batsman to play consistently , making four half-centuries in the five matches so far . Flower said he wants the batsmen to show an aggressive intent and is even making them play big shots at training . " It 's usually a flat wicket at the Adelaide Oval and the side boundaries are smaller than usual , so it does help to get some big shots going , " he said . " I think for some batsmen the problem is mental , for others it is technical. I think they have done well in Test cricket , but in ODIs a lot of work needs to be done. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
