World Cup 2015 : Gayle has injection , should face New Zealand , says Sammy The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 18 , 2015 , 11.23AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 WELLINGTON : West Indies opening batsman Chris Gayle has had a scan and a painkilling injection to alleviate a back injury and should be ready to take on New Zealand on Saturday , according to all-rounder Darren Sammy . Gayle , who missed his side 's final pool game against United Arab Emirates with the injury , was now almost certain to play in the cricket World Cup quarterfinal at Wellington Regional Stadium . " I think yesterday he had a scan. He had an injection , " the 31-year-old Sammy told reporters on Wednesday . " Chris is not missing this quarterfinal for anybody. He is more pumped up for this than the rest of the team . " It 's just unfortunate his back keeps hindering his progress but he wo n't miss the quarterfinal. " West Indies lurched into the quarterfinals and only qualified for the knockout stages on the final day with a six-wicket victory over United Arab Emirates in Napier . Sammy drew a lot of smiles on Wednesday when he claimed his team were the underdogs , yet it was his comparison of Brendon McCullum 's side to another sportsman that drew a few chuckles . " It 's a big match , and I remember some guy named ( Buster ) Douglas beating Mike Tyson so it 's the case of that on Saturday , " he added . " It 's the business end so you can win all your pool matches and come in the knockout there is no guarantee you will win . " You turn up on the day and the guys know what is at stake and we are doing everything in our powers to beat Mike Tyson. " Comparing New Zealand to Tyson , the former undisputed heavyweight boxing champion who suffered a shock loss to Douglas in 1990 , will no doubt also cause a wry smile amongst the management of the New Zealand cricket team , who are often categorised as the underdogs in most matches they play . Brendon McCullum 's team , however , went through the pool phase unbeaten and their aggressive style of play has drawn plaudits from around the cricketing world . Sammy was honest about his team 's inconsistent performances so far , but said they had still achieved their first goal of making the knockout phase and would look to push on beyond Saturday 's clash . " We 're not supposed to be here. We have not played our best cricket , " he added. " We have been so inconsistent but we are still in the quarterfinals . " If we put all the good things we know we can do right then no team will beat us . " And the other teams know that as well. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
