World Cup 2015 : India can go all the way , says Mike Hussey The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 17 , 2015 , 10.03AM IST Now Hussey is providing his expertise to South Africa to help them break the jinx. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Mike Hussey has won the World Cup twice and now he is providing his expertise to South Africa to help them break the jinx. But Mr Cricket invariably gets excited when Australia 's chances are discussed , and adds that India is the most improved team of the World Cup. TOI caught up with him on the sidelines of a promotional event organized by ICC . Excerpts from an exclusive interview : When you say 'we ' these days , do you mean Australia or South Africa ? ( Laughs ) I am still an Australia fan. I feel happy to be invited into the South African set-up and see how they go about their things and share some of my experiences. But no , I am still very much an Australia backer . Do you think South Africa will be able to dispel the choker 's tag ? Time will tell whether they can do that. They have to go out there and perform in that pressure moment and I think they have got the talent and the ability to do it . Being a World Cup winner yourself , do you teach them how to handle pressure ? Not really. The players know how to do it and I do n't think any message that I am going to give them will change anything. It is just a case of them going out there and executing their skills under pressure and then the choker 's tag will surely go . Which team has been the most impressive so far ? I think it 's India. Coming into the tournament I was n't sure whether they were good enough to make it to the semis but their bowling in particular has been outstanding. They were always an unbelievable batting team , everyone always knew that but the bowlers have been sensational and they are certainly looking in great form to go all the way . What is that crucial change in Indian bowling ? A combination of things really. They have been in Australia for a long time to really understand the conditions well. Secondly , it 's the confidence - now their confidence is up. They know they are bowling well as a unit and I know Dhoni shows a lot of trust in his team. That 's a big thing for a player , knowing he has got the faith and trust of the captain . Who has been the most impressive Indian bowler ? I think it 's Mohit Sharma. He is very consistent , knows what he is doing and is cool under pressure. Mohammad Shami and Umesh Yadav are also very good , but I think Mohit has graduated from being an international bowler to one of the best in the business. Another bowler who has been really good is R Ashwin. I have always held Ashwin in high esteem and he is doing a fine job . You have played under Dhoni in CSK. What 's making him look so good in the World Cup ? He is always very calm and takes the pressure off the players , A captain is as good as his team and his boys have backed him extremely well . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
