World Cup 2015 : India should attack Aussies all the time , says Lawson The author has posted comments on this article Ruchir Mishra , TNN | Mar 24 , 2015 , 10.55PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NAGPUR : At home , Australia are unbeaten this summer against India. It 's a record they are proud of as Glenn Maxwell mentioned the other day. However , a lot of water has flown under the bridge since then. Unlike Australia , India have won everything so far in this World Cup . Their weakness has now turned into their biggest strength. And such is the look of two sides that nobody wants to predict the outcome of the semifinal in Sydney. Geoff Lawson is no different. The ex-Australia speedster is loving the way Australian pacers , particularly Mitchell Starc , are bowling but he knows this is a high-pressure game and the conditions might suit India better than Australia . " I do n't see any clear favourites in this game. Both are evenly-matched sides. The SCG pitch is not going to be overtly fast and Australia 's strength is their fast bowing. So , it should be a close game , " Lawson told TOI from Sydney . There 's lot of talk about the nature of the Sydney wicket , which might offer some turn to the spinners. While Lawson accepts Australia might miss a quality spinner , he feels Australia have the firepower in their pace department to bowl any opposition out . " Australian pacers did the job against Sri Lanka here but they had a huge score to defend. They think their fast bowlers are more effective and so far it 's working for them. I will be very surprised if they go with ( Xavier ) Doherty. Indian spinners , on the other hand , have done well and controlled the game in the middle overs. R Ashiwn has not only bowled economically but has picked up some important wickets as well. Jadeja has n't look bad either. However , it would be a different ball game against Australia , " he said . Indian pacers have used the short ball to good effect in the World Cup. And Lawson wants them to use it against Aussies too even though the hosts are good players of the short-pitched stuff. " Indian fast bowlers have worked out what length is more effective and that 's the reason India have done very well. Shami and Yadav have found good areas. They have also used the short ball brilliantly. India should try short bowling against Australia. They must have seen what Wahab Riaz did in the quarterfinal. But it should be a well-directed short ball. You just can overtly use it , " Lawson stressed . Lawson wants India to attack Australia right from the word go. " I think the mindset of Indians should be to attack all the time , whether it 's batting , bowling or fielding. They need to show good body language. The opening bowlers should look to pick up wickets and test Australian batsmen with short stuff. You ca n't let Australia dominate , " he said . Star Aussie pacer Mitchell Johnson has had a quiet World Cup so far. But Lawson feels Johnson will come good in the semifinal . " So far , Starc has been exceptional and others have supported him well. However , you ca n't keep away a player like Johnson quiet for a long time. He has been bowling very well but that has n't reflected in the wicket column. But he is a big-game player and will come good on Thursday. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
