World Cup 2015 : Mahmudullah finds form at perfect time for Bangladesh The author has posted comments on this article Mar 16 , 2015 , 04.15PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : It 's been a long time coming but Mohammad Mahmudullah is finally fulfilling his promise as a match-winning batsman. For both him and his country Bangladesh , the long wait is paying off at the perfect time . Mahmudullah was first picked to play for Bangladesh in 2007. Just 20 at the time , he was earmarked as a star in the making , but it was a false dawn . He had his moments. In January 2010 , he made an unbeaten 96 against India then a month later he scored his maiden Test century against New Zealand , batting at number eight . In 2012 , he played the leading role when Bangladesh beat the West Indies in an ODI series for the first time and he was tipped to become his country 's next captain . But his form deserted him and he has been in an out of the team in the years since before fighting his way back for the World Cup . Now 29 , Mahmudullah has produced his best when it really matters. Last week , he finally scored his first ODI hundred , a brilliant 103 against England which sent Bangladesh through to the World Cup quarterfinals and the English home . Four days later , he scored his second ODI century , an even better 128 not out against a potent New Zealand attack . His form throughout the whole World Cup has been great. Before his back-to-back hundreds , he scored 62 against Scotland , 28 against Sri Lanka and 23 against Afghanistan . At the end of the pool phase , he was the fifth highest run-scorer from all countries with 344 runs. His average of 86 was the third best . " He 's been terrific throughout this tournament , " said Bangladesh all-rounder Shakib Al Hasan . " Hopefully he 'll continue his performance in the quarterfinal match. " A handy bowler , Mahmudullah has also bagged one wicket in the World Cup but it 's his form with the bat that has been the key to his team 's progress . Now his biggest test will come on Thursday when Bangladesh face defending champions India at the Melbourne Cricket Ground . Before this year , no batsman had ever scored centuries in three successive World Cup matches but Sri Lanka 's Kumar Sangakkara has made four in a row , giving Mahmudullah 's team mates real hope his long wait to deliver will reap any more benefits . " His job is not finished yet , " said Shakib. " As a professional team we 'll look for him to score another hundred . " If Sangakkara can score four hundred in a row , why not Mahmudullah ? " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
