World Cup 2015 : Malinga feels rhythm , not blues after surgery The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 7 , 2015 , 11.33AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Sri Lanka paceman Lasith Malinga believes his bowling rhythm is returning at the World Cup after undergoing ankle surgery in September . The sling-arm fast bowler has relied on pain killing injections to make it through his matches at the tournament but says he is feeling more comfortable on the field . The 31-year-old , the only bowler in history to claim three hat-tricks in one-day internationals , said he does n't expect to play pain-free but wants to be a part of Sri Lanka 's bid to win a second World Cup after losing in the last two finals . " I really struggled after my surgery in Melbourne , " Malinga told the Australian Associated Press on Saturday . " There 's still pain in my ankle , but I had to get used to it. Because I wanted to play in this World Cup , whether that meant injections or whatever . " It 's getting there. I do n't think I will be pain-free , but I want to get my rhythm back to perfect. " Malinga endured a tough start to the World Cup , going wicket-less for 84 runs off his 10 overs in his team 's 98-run loss to New Zealand . But he has since picked up seven wickets as Sri Lanka have won their last three matches against Afghanistan , Bangladesh and England . On Sunday , he will be key when Sri Lanka face Australia at the Sydney Cricket Ground where the winners will likely avoid in-form South Africa in the quarterfinals . Former skipper Mahela Jayawardene is confident Malinga will be back to 100 percent in no time . " He 's definitely improved , " Jayawardene said of Malinga 's progress over the past three weeks in Australia and New Zealand . " His variations are coming good ; his pace has picked up. It 's about him having the confidence to put weight on that ankle. In the last two to three weeks , he 's got that confidence back , so the pace has built up. " Malinga , who has taken 278 wickets in 181 ODIs , said there was plenty he could call on when coming up with plans for Australia at the SCG . " We can watch all the video in the world , but the really important thing we have to be concerned with is our strengths , " Malinga said . " That 's how we 'll win the game. We 're not looking too much over their weaknesses . " All their batsmen are really good players and in good form , but they 've all been dismissed . " Our bowlers just have to bowl good deliveries. We can match it with them. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
