World Cup 2015 : Mohammed Shami has done a good job , McGrath says The author has posted comments on this article Prasad RS , TNN | Feb 24 , 2015 , 09.15AM IST Glenn McGrath spoke on Australia 's chances in the ongoing World Cup , India 's turnaround in the competition. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : With 71 scalps from 39 World Cup games to his name , former Australian pace spearhead Glenn McGrath knows the challenges of bowling at the quadrennial showpiece. As he landed in the city to spend time at the MRF Pace Foundation on Monday , McGrath spoke on Australia 's chances in the ongoing World Cup , India 's turnaround in the competition and more. Excerpts : Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 You picked the two home teams to clash in the final. Do you still stand by your prediction ? Yes , I do. Also , I predicted that the other two sides to make the semifinals would be India and South Africa . Are you surprised with the way India have turned it around , coming off a tough tour ? I think India always had the potential. We have been saying that they had a very good batting line-up and it was just that the bowlers had to fire they have n't bowled as well as they would have liked earlier. The wickets during the Test series were the flattest have ever seen in world cricket. I thought they made wickets to suit India which surprised me. That Melbourne wicket even on Day 15 would have been a good one for batting. So those wickets were hard work for a fast bowler. They did n't do too well in the tri-series either. But the game against Pakistan was a big one for India. India came up with a good show , and the win gave them a lot of confidence Which Indian pacer has impressed you most ? Mohammed Shami has done a good job. I have n't seen much of Mohit Sharma but I just think they have fielded a lot better which is always a big plus . Mohammed Shami celebrates dismissing South Africa 's Quinton de Kock during the Cricket World Cup match at the MCG. ( Reuters Photo ) Are you happy with R Ashwin 's performance in the WC so far ? He has bowled to a plan. Also , he has made good use of the fields set for him , and India are doing well thanks to a good all-round unit . Who has impressed you the most with the bat ? I liked the way Ireland chased down the 300-plus total against West Indies. Also , New Zealand looked at ease chasing down a low-total against England. Brendon McCullum is a destructive batsman , and I do n't get overtly disappointed when England lose ! Would you have preferred Varun Aaron in the WC squad ? Yes. Varun bowls at a good pace and swings the ball. I do n't think he went wrong at any point during the Test series. The wickets were flat and their bowling plan was questionable - especially bowling round the wicket to David Warner early - and it was n't working. Also , a couple of dropped catches did n't go in his favour . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
