World Cup 2015 : No rift in Windies team , says Holder The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 15 , 2015 , 01.03PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NAPIER : West Indies skipper Jason Holder dismissed talk of a rift in the ranks Sunday as he led his side to a likely World Cup quarterfinal against New Zealand . Holder , a surprise choice to lead the West Indies to the World Cup , appeared to be involved in an on-field argument with former captain Darren Sammy during their must-win final Pool B match against the United Arab Emirates in Napier . The West Indies ' eventual six-wicket victory all but propelled them into the knock-out phase , with only an unlikely tie in the final match between Pakistan and Ireland in Adelaide able to derail them . The mission seemed in the bag when Holder won the toss , put UAE into bat and rapidly reduced them to 46-6 before Nasir Aziz and Amjad Javed staged a 107-run stand . Sammy was brought on to try to break the partnership with the score at 108-6 after 30 overs and was not happy when taken out of the attack after just one over that yielded four runs . Sammy and Holder appeared have strong words which Holder later played down as " a little banter on the field " saying they wanted to have some fun but " unfortunately it probably did n't look that way. " He later conceded they " had a little tussle there. It 's just part of the game. At the end of the day we shake hands and still smile together. " Sammy later posted a picture on Instagram of him enjoying a beer with Holder in the locker room although his conciliatory smile was in stark contrast to his captain 's stony-faced expression . The West Indies World Cup campaign , which started with a shock loss to Ireland , has been dogged with suggestions of unhappiness in the camp with the 23-year-old Holder struggling to get the respect of the senior players . But Holder rejected talk of problems and said the two-time champions were looking forward to a likely quarterfinal against unbeaten New Zealand in Wellington on March 21 . " I could n't ask for anything more from the guys. It was a must-win game and we had to win by a big margin and the way the guys came out and played cricket I ca n't ask for much more , " he said . The UAE , anchored by 60 from Aziz and 56 from Javed , made 175 which the West Indies took only 30.3 overs to haul in with Johnson Charles , playing his first game , hitting 55 off 40 deliveries . Charles was called into the West Indies side after Darren Bravo was injured early in the tournament , and thrust into the starting lineup against UAE at the last minute when big-hitting opener Chris Gayle pulled out with a recurrence of a back injury . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
