World Cup 2015 : Pakistan 's heavy defeat hurts Javed Miandad The author has posted comments on this article AP | Feb 21 , 2015 , 08.05PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ISLAMABAD : Pakistan 's former captain and coach Javed Miandad said on Saturday that the huge loss against the West Indies in Cricket World Cup was " shambolic. " " Shambolic is a mild word ... It really hurts to see the planning of Pakistan 's think-tank , " Miandad wrote at the tournament 's website . Fast bowler Jerome Taylor 's triple strike left Pakistan lurching at 1-4 in pursuit of 311-run target before the team was dismissed for 160 in 39 overs , failing to play out full quote of 50 overs for the second successive match . " There were no king cobras on the pitch to scare the Pakistan batsmen. Jerome Taylor simply exploited the weakness of Pakistan batsmen by bowling in the right areas -- just outside off stump , " Miandad said . " It was simply game , set and match at one for four after Pakistan 's top order was rolled over by Taylor. " Pakistan lost its opening match to archrival India last Sunday and will take on Zimbabwe , United Arab Emirates , South Africa and Ireland in the remaining group matches . " The men in 'shocking green ' look like a fractured outfit and the wounds are only getting deeper and deeper , " Miandad warned . " The scars of defeat against India were still fresh and West Indies has simply rubbed more salt onto it. " Pakistan top order batsmen had been struggling to cope with the wickets in Australia and New Zealand with opening batsman Ahmed Shehzad , Younis Khan and Haris Sohail all failing against the new ball . Captain Misbah-ul-Haq even promoted Younis as Shehzad 's opening partner against India , but the veteran of 263 ODIs could score only six runs and was out off the first ball against the West Indies for zero in his usual No. 3 spot . Surprisingly , regular wicketkeeper Sarfraz Ahmed , who had score prolifically against Australia and New Zealand in last year 's Test and ODI series in the UAE , is yet to get his first Cricket World Cup match. His makeshift replacement Umar Akmal looked scrappy behind the wickets while missing crucial catches in both defeats . " The batting form of Younis Khan is crystal clearer. Misbah needs to sort out these two problems before it gets too late for him , " Miandad said . " Look for specialized ones at the specialized spots in playing XI , no matter what price you had to pay . " It ( Pakistan ) needs to put its right thinking cap on pretty quickly and win , at least , three of the next four matches to have any chance of qualifying for the quarter-finals. " Express fast bowler Shoaib Akhtar termed Pakistan 's defeat as disgraceful and criticized Misbah for not leading the team properly . " We are leaderless. I have n't seen such a selfish captain in the history of Pakistan cricket , " Akhtar told Geo Television from India where he is doing commentary on the World Cup . " Everybody is playing for his own spot. There 's no comparison of this Pakistan team with the one which won the World Cup under Imran Khan in 1992. " Akhtar said Misbah should have promoted himself , like Imran used to do during 1992 World Cup when Pakistan top order batsmen struggled . " If Imran had promoted himself ahead of batsmen like Salim Malik , Ijaz Ahmed , Inzamam-ul-Haq and Javed Miandad why ca n't Misbah do ? " Akhtar said . Another former Test captain Ramiz Raja described Pakistan 's fielding as " hilarious " after at least four catches went down against the West Indies with Shahid Afridi dropping two of them . " It was really hilarious to see such a fielding performance , " Raja said . Raja also wanted Younis to sit out and try to regain his batting form ahead of quarterfinals -- if Pakistan qualifies . " He should go back to the nets and prepare for the quarterfinals and let someone else take his place in the remaining group matches , " Raja said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
