World Cup 2015 : Retirement announcements can wait , says Brendon McCullum The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 29 , 2015 , 06.33PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : New Zealand have players who will retire from cricket but will be gracious in defeat and allow Australia to bask in their World Cup triumph , Black Caps skipper Brendon McCullum said Sunday . In a refreshing dose of sporting humility , McCullum said the New Zealand team had no intention of grabbing the headlines off the rejoicing Australians and would do so when " the dust settles " . In front of a record crowd of 93,013 at the Melbourne Cricket Ground , clinical Australia bowled out the Black Caps for 183 and then cruised to a comprehensive seven-wicket victory in the 34th over . Australian captain Michael Clarke , who announced his retirement from the one-day format on the eve of the final , hit 74 in his last one-day international , triggering what is expected to be a number of retirements across the competing teams . Senior player Daniel Vettori , at 36 , is one Black Cap rumoured to be quitting , and even 33-year-old McCullum has been mentioned , but the skipper would not divulge names in the wake of New Zealand 's defeat . " There are maybe guys within our group who will retire , " McCullum told reporters after the final . " We 'll let the dust settle on this one and we certainly wo n't look to grab any headlines over the next couple of days because they belong to Australia as they 've deserve the right . " We 'll let the dust settle , we 'll be gracious in defeat and then we 'll work a plan over the next couple of days for some of those guys who may look to retire . " But it 's the right thing to allow Australia to bask in the glory of their success. " McCullum , who earned applause from reporters at the conclusion of his post-match conference , conceded their trans-Tasman neighbours won convincingly . " All credit to Australia for the way that they were able to deliver on the biggest stage at the biggest occasion and at the key moments , " he said . " We 'll take some lessons out of that , but sometimes you 've just got to admit that you ran second in the race , and fair play to Australia for all their hard work and their success in the key moments. " McCullum did n't want to get into any criticism of verbal " send-offs " Australian bowlers gave to dismissed batsmen , notably Grant Elliott , Martin Guptill and Vettori . " Look , it was n't really discussed within the group. A send-off is a send-off. It 's not something we are necessarily concerned about , " he said . " I think the focus should be on how well Australia played and how much they deserve this victory rather than any of those sort of minor issues on the way through . " Yeah , I certainly do n't want to go too deep into that. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
