World Cup 2015 : SA should go hard at Windies , says Pringle The author has posted comments on this article Ruchir Mishra , TNN | Feb 26 , 2015 , 11.19PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Meyrick Pringle knows how much it hurts not to have the World Cup title. Under Kepler Wessels , South Africa came very close to it in 1992 when they were robbed of the final berth due to Duckworth-Lewis method in the rain-affected semifinal against England . He shot into limelight in the same tournament when he picked up wickets of Brian Lara , Richie Richardson , Carl Hooper and Keith Arthurton to rock the West Indies batting line-up. West Indies might not be same force but they are still dangerous. Chris Gayle showed that in the last match . Pringle , however , is unfazed about the Gayle factor. The former South African pacer feels it would be a different ball game for Gayle against the Proteas . " SA have quality bowlers. ( Dale ) Steyn and ( Morne ) Morkel will unsettle him. Gayle does n't like it quick and onto his body , " Pringle told TOI on Thursday . West Indies had a torrid time during the last series against South Africa before the World Cup , which they lost 1-4 . " South Africa should do the same what they did during the series in SA. They should go hard at them. Nothing clicked for them against India. India played very well and deserved the victory on the day. The loss to India is not a setback. They have experienced players besides a great support staff including of Mike Hussey to assist them. I am sure they will pull it back , " he said . Much like most of the pundits , Pringle too feels SA are missing Kallis. " Certainly , they are missing Kallis. We do n't have an all-rounder in the squad. If your top six ca n't score then there is a serious problem. They have a good side besides that number seven issue , " he quipped . At times , South Africa are too dependent on Steyn and Morkel to fire. If they do n't do well SA struggle , like they did against India. However , Pringle does n't feel the same. He says SA have a good all-round attack . " They are a major cog in the SA bowling attack but they all have their own jobs to do. They will have to bowl well as a unit like they have done in the past , " he said . South Africa have been playing some brilliant cricket of late and that 's the reason they are regarded as one of the favourites despite some chinks in their armour. " They have a major chance of winning the trophy this time. I was speaking to some of the former players who are commentating and they feel SA are major contenders along with Australia , New Zealand and India , " he concluded . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
