World Cup 2015 : South Africa have to be more consistent , says Rice The author has posted comments on this article Sunil Subbaiah , TNN | Mar 8 , 2015 , 11.34AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 BENGALURU : Even as he was being treated for a life-threatening brain tumour in Bengaluru , former South Africa skipper Clive Rice was closely following his national team 's progress at the ICC World Cup in Australia and New Zealand . One of the most accomplished all-rounders with 23,331 runs and 930 wickets in first-class cricket , Rice had his last round of robotic radiation treatment , also known as Cyberknife , for his cancerous brain tumour at the Health Care Global Hospital on Friday. The tumour has been removed and Rice will return home on Monday . The 65-year-old Rice , who played only three ODIs captaining South Africa during their tour of India in 1991 , expressed his disappointment over South Africa 's performance at the World Cup and their narrow 29run ( DL method ) loss against Pakistan at Napier on Saturday . " It was a disappointing performance from South Africa against Pakistan , who came with a purpose. SA have to be a lot more consistent. Our top-order batsmen should build a strong platform for the rest to take the team to a formidable total , " said Rice. " When we played India earlier our batting did n't click.Barring AB de Villiers , the other batsmen have not contributed well. " Shortlisting teams capable of advancing to the semifinals , Rice said : " I think Australia , New Zealand and South Africa can progress to the semis. It is difficult to choose between India and Pakistan. India were a bit inconsistent but if Pakistan continue to play like they did against South Africa I think they can easily make it to the last four , " Rice said . Rice collapsed at his Johannesburg home two weeks ago and after subsequent scans , it was found that the tumour was too deep down in his brain for a neurosurgeon to conduct a surgery to remove it . " My step-sister Margi Bushall too underwent similar treatment for cancer in Bengaluru few years ago. So my family thought it was ideal to visiting India for treatment.The doctors have done a wonderful job , " said Rice , who will return to India after three months for a check-up . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
