World Cup is a prestigious stage for me : Rohit Sharma The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 20 , 2015 , 02.06PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Refusing to rate his match-winning ton against Bangladesh in the quarterfinal , Indian top-order batsman Rohit Sharma said the ongoing World Cup campaign is a very prestigious stage and he wants to make the most of it . Opener Rohit 's calculated 137 off 126 deliveries helped India outplay Bangladesh by 109 runs to book their semifinal spot and the innings is certainly special for the Mumbai batsman . " It should be right up there. A maiden World Cup hundred is always special. It came at the right time and in a crucial game for the team. But I do not place my innings and knocks in any order. I feel all hundreds you get are really special. Centuries do n't happen every day and whenever you get one , you cherish it , " Rohit said in an interview with bcci.tv . " What is more satisfying is the situation in which I got that hundred and most importantly that we won the game in the end , which is what matters. I can not describe how special this World Cup campaign is for me. It is a very important tournament and this is a precious stage for me , " he added . Crafting his innings to perfection , Rohit batted with patience till about 70 runs before the talented batsman cut loose to register his first World Cup century , his innings laced with 14 fours and 3 sixes . " That is the pattern of my batting. I like to take time initially and assess the conditions. I try to gauge the wicket behaviour , the shots I can play on that wicket and the ones I can cut down. I plan and pace my innings accordingly. The hundreds I have got of late have been similar hundreds where I take time initially and then switch gears . " There is no mental approach to switching gears. It is about timing certain shots according to the condition of the game. My job was not over after getting to a hundred. I still had a lot of overs left and once I got my century I was focused on helping the team get a good score , " he said . Rohit 's 122-run fourth wicket partnership with Suresh Raina ( 65 of 57 deliveries ) was crucial for India managing 302 for six after electing to bat first. The Man of the match acknowledged the importance of Raina 's half-century to the outcome of the game . " I think more than my half century at that stage , it was Suresh Raina 's fifty that changed the momentum of the game. He scored at run-a-ball and changed the course of the game playing those shots. It completely put Bangladesh in a different position. They had an upper-hand initially but then Raina just came in and turned it in our favour . " His fifty was important in terms of laying a good platform for posting a decent score. Our partnership was crucial after losing three wickets. We , as a batting unit , have always spoken about getting one big 100-run partnership and that partnership put us in a strong position , " Rohit opined . India , who have been unbeaten so far , have registered 11 wins on the trot over two World Cups. Rohit is confident of a strong show in the final lap from the defending champions . " First we need to see who we are playing and then plan accordingly. It will be a huge game and now there is no looking back. We ca n't afford any mistakes. All our three departments have done well in the last seven games . " We have posted good scores , chased well and the bowlers have picked up 70 wickets in seven games. The fielders too have shown a lot of energy and we are doing well in unison. This shows that our team has a lot of caliber , Rohit said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
