READ MORE Yuvraj Singh | Virat Kohli | Vijay Zol | Royal Challengers Bangalore | Chris Gayle RELATED MUMBAI : In a start-studded Royal Challengers Bangalore batting line-up , it was always going to be tough for Vijay Zol to find a spot for himself. The talented youngster got just three games to prove himself , and just a couple of chances to bat . These , however , are 'early days ' for the 19-year-old. On Monday , Zol won the CEAT 'Young Player of the Year ' award , and was promptly reminded by former Pakistan opener Rameez Raza of the 'rich heritage of Maharashtra batting.' Zol had scored 553 runs in nine games @ 46.08 , including a double hundred on Ranji debut , during the 2013-14 season , in which Maharashtra made it to the finals for the first time in 21 years . " This award is motivating. It was my dream to play in the Ranji Trophy. I want to improve on my consistency now , " Zol told TOI. Though he warmed the bench for a major period , there was plenty to learn for Zol from 'big guns ' Chris Gayle , skipper Virat Kohli , Yuvraj Singh and AB de Villiers . There was a valuable advice that he received from De Villiers. " He told me : 'You need to understand your own strengths. Do n't get carried away and try to play like us. Play your natural game. Choose strokes which suit you, ' " Zol revealed. " Kohli told me to enjoy the game , regardless of whether you win or lose , while Yuvi told me to work on my fitness , " he shared . Leading the India U-19 World Cup team , which was defending its crown , to a quarterfinal exit against England earlier this season in the UAE , was " a disappointing " experience for the Jalna boy . " We won four tourneys before the World Cup , winning around 24 out of 26 games. One defeat does n't mean it was a bad team , " Zol defended. The 19-year-old is now looking forward to the India Under-23 camp in Bangalore , for the Emerging Players Trophy Down Under. That tour may just be the right kind of examination of this young turk 's mettle . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Yuvraj Singh,Virat Kohli,Vijay Zol,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Chris Gayle Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
