Akram lashes out critics who question his KKR job PTI | Jun 5 , 2014 , 11.02 PM IST READ MORE IPL | wasim akram | Waqar Younis | Kolkata Knight Riders RELATED KARACHI : Former Pakistan skipper Wasim Akram , who has been part of the Kolkata Knight Riders dug out in IPL , has lashed out at the people who have questioned his patriotism on social websites or on television shows . A visibly upset Wasim said on Geo News channel on Thursday that he was very angry with those people who were questioning his patriotism on social websites just because he had been the bowling consultant of IPL champions KKR . " At times when I read these rude and uncivilized comments it makes me very angry and I wish those writing such things were in front of me than I would deal with them in similar fashion , " the former fast bowler said . Wasim insisted that he had never preferred to work elsewhere and not for Pakistan cricket . " People have to understand coaching or working on television is my bread and butter if I do n't do this at this stage of my life should I sell fruits , " he questioned . Wasim said that he was not at a stage where he would go and stand outside the PCB offices asking for a job . " Sorry where I stand I ca n't go and beg for something. I have told different PCB Chairmen that whenever I am in Karachi I am always available to work with the fast bowlers. Even if the Pakistan team bowlers are not available at that time I am willing to work with the junior players. " The former captain said that he was always keen to help the Pakistan team and was willing to give long term improvement plans for them. " But when I am not asked to do something obviously I have to seek my bread and butter somewhere. " Wasim also backed the appointment of Waqar Younis as head coach of the Pakistan team . " Waqar is a strict and disciplined man and I have said before this Pakistan team needs some discipline. I am sure he will do well with this team. " The former captain said no one should question his patriotism or loyalty to Pakistan because whatever he was in life it was because of Pakistan . " Before writing any comments people should think what they are writing because everyone has self respect. " During tenure of Zaka Ashraf as PCB Chairman , Wasim last year held a 15-days camp for fast bowlers in Karachi . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = IPL,wasim akram,Waqar Younis,Kolkata Knight Riders Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
