Amre , the man behind Uthappa 's resurgence Gaurav Gupta Gaurav Gupta,TNN | May 23 , 2014 , 11.33 AM IST READ MORE Robin Uthappa | Pravin Amre | KKR | IPL | Glenn Maxwell RELATED MUMBAI : There is a reason why Robin Uthappa dedicated his newly earned 'Orange Cap, ' after overtaking Glenn Maxwell for being the top-scorer in the IPL so far ( 572 runs in 13 games @ 47.66 , including five fifties ) to his 'guru ' Pravin Amre . The former India bat and current Mumbai coach is the man behind the 28year-old 's incredible resurgence , which has left everyone stunned . A couple of years back , a distraught Uthappa , worried that his career was n't heading anywhere , approached Amre to be his 'personal coach. ' " He started a trend ( of hiring a personal coach for a fee like it happens in other sports ) , which has now caught on in cricket . He was n't in the national reckoning at all and people were writing him off. He was down on confidence. I agreed. But my condition was he would have to spend half the year in Mumbai as I would be unable to travel to Bangalore repeatedly. Determined to bounce back , he rented out a place here and then began the journey , with a national comeback being the ultimate goal , " Amre told TOI . " We started from the scratch. I had to instill self-belief in him. He was sincere , and admitted his game had technical faults. It is n't easy to work on a 26-year-old batsman because your game is set by then . I had learnt from ( Ramakant ) Achrekar Sir that a batsman 's natural game must not be tampered with. I only suggested corrections which he was comfortable with. To his credit , he was prepared to work hard. I am a mild person , but my training sessions are tough ! We trained for two hours each session. That 's the number of hours the whole team trains for , " Amre said . The other thing Amre prioritised was fitness. " I told him to reduce his weight , because the extra flab was n't helping his body to come in the right position while playing a stroke . He went about it professionally. He hired a dietician , a mental conditioner and trainers and lost 17 kilos to get into shape , " Amre revealed . The results began flowing last domestic season. Uthappa scored 374 ( avg 46.75 ) in five games in the Ranji Trophy , 536 in eight matches ( three hundreds and a fifty ) in Vijay Hazare Onedayers as Karnataka won the Ranji , Hazare and Irani titles . Amre accompanied him everywhere . " I knew something special was coming in the IPL. He has outscored Maxwell , who is in the form of his life. Remember , he did n't get to open in the first five games , " Amre says . Kolkata Knight Riders ' rising fortunes coincided with Uthappa being asked to open alongside skipper Gautam Gambhir . " He is a born opener. Like Virender Sehwag , he can destroy an attack and play out a spell. I am impressed with the way he is leaving the ball , playing straight , staying till the end and ensuring the team wins. I drilled these things into him. I feel proud to see him bat these days. It is the result of his hard work , sincerity and determination. He was willing to invest what he had earned from the game to get back the India cap. In this form , he deserves an immediate India recall , " Amre gushed . It is a beautiful bond that he wants to continue. " I just need to fine-tune his batting now. I am glad to help out Indian cricket in this way , " he says . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Robin Uthappa,Pravin Amre,KKR,IPL,Glenn Maxwell Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
