An unlikely success story of Wriddhiman Saha Arani Basu Arani Basu,TNN | Jun 2 , 2014 , 09.28 AM IST Saha has remained reluctant to give in to the unorthodox ways of batting. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : Wriddhiman Saha had shown signs of coming of age as an attacking batsmen during IPL 7. On Sunday , in the final against KKR , the Kings XI wicketkeeper-batsman put the icing on his season 's cake by playing a blinder ( 115 ) which sadly could not win it for Punjab . But his name now will not just be a footnote. This knock has made sure that he commands respect and attention from the fraternity . Kings XI has played a key role in this change of fortune. Months before this year 's auction , Saha had expressed his desire to move out of CSK which also has Dhoni which meant little chance of getting into the playing eleven . " You ca n't do anything when you have a player of Dhoni 's stature ahead of you. I got a lot to learn at CSK but as a player I ca n't deny I have been missing out on some good opportunities as well. If some other franchise gives a better deal and assures me more matches then I might be tempted to think about it , " Saha had told TOI last November itself . His wish was fulfilled and it was Sanjay Bangar who lapped him up for Punjab , thrusting the 29-year-old up in the batting order this season . " With CSK he did n't even get a chance to keep wickets in any match. As a coach I know that when he keeps wickets , he bats better. The move to KXIP has changed it and it 's all about the stars as well. He needed an innings like this which will be remembered by one and all , " said his childhood coach Jayanto Bhowmick . In an age where power hitting has become a trend , Saha remained reluctant to give in to the unorthodox ways of batting. He , however , kept playing crucial knocks for Bengal . " I 'll always maintain that I am a wicketkeeper first. I want to be known as a good wicketkeeper , " he had said once . After Sunday , it 's his batting which will be the talk of the town . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Wriddhiman Saha,Sanjay Bangar,Kolkata Knight Riders,Kings XI Punjab,IPL Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
