Maxwell rocked the first part of the tournament , but suddenly lost form. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : He looked disappointed , tired and almost content. It was all understandable. For Glenn Maxwell , IPL 7 was about two halves. The Aussie rocked the first part of the tournament with his big-hitting skills , but suddenly lost form . A day after Kings XI suffered a heart-breaking loss to KKR in their maiden final , Maxwell was in the city to receive the 'CEAT International popular choice award.' In an exclusive chat with TOI , a dejected Maxwell revealed the reason for his amazing downslide and felt the Kings ' decision to 'rest ' him from the encounter against the Rajasthan Royals ' on May 23 hurt him. Interestingly , it was the only game Maxwell , who scored 554 runs in 16 matches at a strike rate of 187. 75 , did n't play . Excerpts from an interview : Though the disappointment of losing the final must be hurting , winning the CEAT award for 'popular choice ' must make you feel better ? It was a massive surprise. I was n't expecting something like this. When the IPL began , I was just looking to play as many as games as I could , because last year , I spent a lot of time on the bench ( for the Mumbai Indians ) . You got out to leg-spinners quite a few times. Do you have a problem against leggies ? Not really. People seem to think I have a problem with leg-spinners , because I try to hit them for a six off every ball. Whenever a spinner comes on , my first aim is to dominate them. If you look at my strike rate against spinners , it is ridiculous ! I do n't think that 's a weakness at all. I think that 's my strength ! The problem I had , I think , was being 'rested ' for one game frustrated me a bit. Especially since it was in a game against the Royals , against whom I had played so well previously . It destroyed my momentum. I got a 0 , 6,13,0 after that. It altered my momentum. As much as you probably need to rest players , it was disappointing to miss a game where I thought I had a chance to score runs . So not playing that game hurt your rhythm ? I think so. If I would have continued playing , I would have been able to get some form before the final. Then I came against Delhi , who put up only 110 on the board. So , it was a lose-lose situation , and then I went straight into the final. It is tedious when you miss a game just before the final , especially when you need momentum and some form back. That did n't happen , but I 'm proud of the way the boys played . Were you also upset at being sent way too late in the final ? I was happy with that situation. That was my role in that game. At Kings , we have been adaptable and team-oriented. It 's a huge honour to be a part of the team , and to play the final was an amazing experience. To get so close , and yet be so far was disappointing , but the Kings had an unbelievable season. Hopefully , we can go one step further next year . Your teammate Virender Sehwag felt you were even more destructive than him.. . For someone of his calibre , it was an incredible thing to say. He 's someone I 've grown up admiring. We bat in a similar way. We are very good friends. He is a lovely guy , but I do n't think what he said is true ! I have had lots of chats with Viru about the game , basically about simply backing yourself and enjoying the game. That 's how he plays his cricket. His philosophy is : 'If you do n't get runs today , they 'll come on another day. ' He 's so calm . What 's the secret behind you hitting so many sixes ? Probably my golf ! I play a lot of golf. My slog sweep is a bit like my golf swing which is like a 'snap hook'. I 've always had pretty fast hands. I back myself to clear the topes. I try and target certain bowlers depending on fields. Basically , it 's just about swinging hard and hoping for the best ( smiles ) . Were you trying to prove a point to MI , who did n't retain you , with your smashing show ? Not at all. I knew they had six-seven players better than me. I had no issues , no grudges against them. They gave me something that changed my life , an opportunity to play the IPL , when I was n't sure to be picked up. They are a lovely team to be a part of. I made great friends for a lifetime there . Has the IPL made you a better player ? Whenever you play in the sub-continent against world class attacks , it is going to make you a better player. It is n't easy to concentrate with thousands of Indians yelling non-stop. It tests your character , to concentrate in the heat of battle. I so love playing in the IPL . What are your views on Akshar Patel , who won the Emerging Player Of the year award ? Akshar is a super talent. If only he was given an opportunity last year ( with MI ) , he would have performed as well. He 's got a brilliant head on his shoulders. He surprised us with the way he performed. His consistency was second to none. He should have a long career for India . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virender Sehwag,Mumbai Indians,Kings XI Punjab,IPL,Glenn Maxwell Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
