Bowlers do the trick for Kings XI Punjab K Shriniwas Rao K Shriniwas Rao,TNN | Apr 27 , 2014 , 09.55 AM IST Kings XI Punjab 's Virender Sehwag plays a shot against Kolkata Knight Riders during the IPL 7 match at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium in Abu Dhabi , United Arab Emirates on Saturday. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED ABU DHABI : The Kings XI Punjab party continues. The batsmen were the first to hit the floor right at the start of the tournament , the fielders were always around and on Saturday night , here at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium , the bowlers joined in . The other day , Kings XI skipper George Bailey had talked about his team 's attack , expecting it to find the right rhythm very soon. It did n't take long for that to happen . A patchy batting effort , relatively poor compared to the totals they 've set so far in three matches , saw Kings XI Punjab post 132-9 batting first. Yet , the Kolkata Knight Riders buckled in the chase and Bailey 's team won comfortably by 23 runs , the bowling unit complimenting the batsmen 's effort by coming up with a match-winning performance on a helpful wicket . The ball turned sharply as the game went on but it was the Knights ' decision to bat second after winning the toss that went against them . The Kings looked like they 'd gotten off to another impressive start with the bat with Virender Sehwag , the high-on-form Glenn Maxwell and David Miller all showing initial signs of another runfest . However , Piyush Chawla 's leg-spin kept Punjab in check as the table-toppers lost crucial wickets in decisive spells to halt the flow of runs . In the process , Chawla , KKR 's most economical bowler , ended up with impressive figures of 3-19 off four overs . It seemed like the Knights would go on and chase the target , needing just 6.6 runs per over when the innings began , but young Punjab bowlers Akshar Patel , Rishi Dhawan and Sandeep Sharma ( 3/21 off his four overs ) had other plans . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virender Sehwag,Rishi Dhawan,Kolkata Knight Riders,Kings XI Punjab,David Miller Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
