Chennai Super Kings have their way against Rajasthan Royals K Shriniwas Rao K Shriniwas Rao,TNN | Apr 24 , 2014 , 09.18 AM IST Jadeja came up with a match-winning performance for the Super Kings. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED DUBAI : Dhawal Kulkarni , coming in to bat at No. 9 in the Rajasthan Royals line-up , gave Chennai Super Kings a big scare but that was not enough as the rest of the batting order crashed chasing just 140 runs at the Dubai Cricket Stadium on Wednesday . The match turned out to be a classic case of one team batting badly and the other doing worse as one of the most eagerly awaited contests of IPL 's UAE leg ended without much excitement. The pacers and spinners succeeded in equal measure on the Dubai flatbed but it was poor batting that marked the contest . Barring Dwayne Smith 's 50 and Ravindra Jadeja 's later order 36 , none of the other CSK batsmen went beyond an individual score of 10 while Royals did one better - just two batsmen scoring in the 20s. Royals won the toss and elected to field first. The wicket appeared good to bat all through the game. It took some exceptionally good bowling from the Royals bowlers , especially Rajat Bhatia ( 4-0-13-2 ) , to keep CSK in check . When Jadeja gets going , he really does. He came up with a match-winning performance for the Super Kings. His contribution with the bat allowed his side to swell the total and his four-wicket haul ensured the Royals came nowhere close to it . Given the conditions , chasing 140 should n't have been a tough task and six runs per over at a steady rate would 've been enough for Rajasthan to sail through. However , given the nature of the wicket , Shane Watson & Co decided to turn aggressive. The result was a series of mistimed , unnecessary shot-making that left the Royals batting line-up in tatters . Watson himself fell to an excellent catch at long-on , taken by Ben Hilfenhaus but Ajinkya Rahane and Stuart Binny , two middle-order strongmen in the Royals line-up , were guilty of offering lame ones . In hindsight , the CSK dismissals were n't suicidal as much as they were unfortunate. Faf du Plessis ' run out was a freak one , the ball brushing the bowler 's fingers to hit the stumps at the non-striker 's end while Raina fell to a good slower one from Rajat Bhatia . These two teams were in focus all through 2013-14 due to the controversies surrounding the league and were coming into the tournament after undergoing a lot of pressure. The match , however , failed to bring around the kind of excitement these two sides had ended up generating off the field . In the end , Kulkarni almost took his team through and had he pulled it off , a dull game would 've otherwise ended up being one of the biggest shocks of the tournament . Pravin Tambe , the Royals No. 10 , misjudged a run in the last over with only two balls to go and it ended up cutting the Royals innings short just when it looked like they had a chance . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Shane Watson,Ravindra Jadeja,Rajasthan Royals,Chennai Super Kings,Ajinkya Rahane Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
