Chennai Super Kings ' two home games shifted out Dwaipayan Datta Dwaipayan Datta,TNN | May 10 , 2014 , 11.16 AM IST CSK have a solid support base in Ranchi thanks to their captain MS Dhoni. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED CHENNAI : There wo n't be any home comfort for Chennai Super Kings in IPL 7 . The two home matches of CSK scheduled for the MA Chidambaram Stadium against Royal Challengers Bangalore and Sunrisers Hyderabad on May 18 and 22 will move out of the city because the TNCA has failed to obtain the no-objection certificate from the Chennai Municipal Corporation for opening three stands - G , H and I - which have allegedly been constructed illegally . The TNCA has informed the BCCI about their inability to host the matches and an IPL governing council meeting has been convened in Mumbai to decide the alternative venue . " These two are our home matches and we would like to play those in Ranchi , " a CSK source told TOI . CSK have a solid support base in Ranchi and they have already played one game in the city ( against KKR ) which they won convincingly . " We would have ideally liked to play the matches in Chennai but the circumstances are such that there 's not much of an option for us , " the source added. The stands have been closed for the public since the Champions League in October 2011. The TNCA bosses are also worried that the qualifier and the eliminator , scheduled for the city on May 28 and May 30 may also have to be moved out . " If we ca n't host the two league games , it 's unlikely that the situation will change drastically for the qualifier and the eliminator , " the source added . In addition to that , the TN state government is against Lankan players playing in Chennai and if MI qualify , they might have to go in without Lasith Malinga. In case those two matches finally move out , Eden Gardens ( Kolkata ) and CCI ( Mumbai ) might come into the fray . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunrisers Hyderabad,Royal Challengers Bangalore,MS Dhoni,Chennai Super Kings,BCCI Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
