Coach Sanjay Bangar makes his mark Arani Basu Arani Basu,TNN | Jun 5 , 2014 , 09.53 AM IST Virender Sehwag even compared Bangar 's calm influence with Gary Kirsten 's earlier role with Team India. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : Coach Sanjay Bangar 's singular contribution to Kings XI Punjab 's success this season can not be overstated . Bangar was involved right from the embryonic stage of the revamped Punjab side and once the auctions were over in February , the list of names in the KXIP squad started generating a sense of anticipation . Bangar 's reputation as a coach only gained in stature during the tournament , with Virender Sehwag even comparing Bangar 's calm influence with Gary Kirsten 's earlier role with Team India . It was n't just about picking the swashbucklers in the Sehwags , Maxwells and the Johnsons. It was also about spotting the Shivam Sharmas , Karanveer Singhs and Akshar Patels and retaining Manan Vohra. Bangar 's long years with the Railways first-class team and his keen knowledge of the Indian domestic scene no doubt helped . Anureet Singh , the highest wicket-taker this Ranji season and a part of the KXIP set-up who made his first-class debut under Bangar 's captaincy , says , " Sanjay bhaiya has n't changed a bit despite having such a big role at an IPL franchise. He is still as calm as he was with Railways . " Railways is a team of chot khaya hua ladkas ( those who are hurt ) . Most of us did n't get to play for our states and Railways gave us jobs and a chance to play at the first-class level. After coach Abhay Sharma selected players , Sanjay bhaiya took over to get the most out of us. He always gave us a motive to improve our performances , saying , 'Take your frustrations out of not getting through your state team. ' He kept backing us. His experience of pulling the Railways team to success at the Ranji level has helped him. " Manan Vohra , another KXIP success story , says , " Sanjay sir is a very steady man. All he told me was to wait for my turn and then deliver. " Anureet added , " He was equal to everybody. He did n't believe in special attention for overseas stars. If he had to speak about someone 's game , he would do it in front of the entire team. " Team insiders say Bangar does n't believe in fiddling with a player 's game. " He will point out if I am doing something wrong. Otherwise , he wo n't be in my ears pointing out glitches. He believes in letting the player play with a free mind , " Vohra said . " He would n't let you feel any less confident about your game. The fact that I was trusted to do the job in the final gave me a real boost , " said Awana . Abhay Sharma , Bangar 's coach at Railways for many years , however believes one should n't jump the gun in judging him as a coach . " Only man-management makes it easy for you when you have a good team. Bangar is yet to be tested when players of bigger stature develop technical glitches and it will be seen how manages to iron out the chinks , " Sharma told TOI . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virender Sehwag,Sanjay Bangar,Kings XI Punjab,IPL,Gary Kirsten Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
