Corey Anderson soaks in India 's madness for cricket Gaurav Gupta Gaurav Gupta,TNN | May 9 , 2014 , 10.17 AM IST Anderson is lapping every bit of his first tryst with the most popular T20 league in the world. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : For a second , Corey Anderson must have thought if he was a rock star. A sizeable crowd , that kept swelling despite the heat , greeted the Kiwi all-rounder , when he walked in , along with Mumbai Indians ' teammates , Ambati Rayudu and Aditya Tare , at a shopping mall for a promotional event . Certainly , he can not expect this kind of a 'special treatment ' back home in New Zealand , even in his dreams. No wonder , while he is n't doing as well as he was expected to for his high-profile franchise , Anderson is lapping every bit of his first tryst with the most popular T20 league in the world . " This is madness. This is my second trip to India , and first to Mumbai. It is my maiden IPL , and I 'm loving it. It is nice to be back in India and winning games as well. The pitch in Mumbai is similar to a New Z e a l a n d wicket. The passion and love of the Mumbai fans is amazing , " Anderson gushed . The New Zealander has n't been able to live up to the hype generated around him after his record 36-ball ton against the West Indies in an ODI at Queenstown on New Year 's Day was followed by stunning exploits against India at home . Former Kiwi pacer Simon Doull had recently remarked that perhaps the 23-year-old was feeling the pressure of justifying the Rs 4.5cr price tag that MI paid for him . " Everyone does ( feel that kind of pressure ) . It 's just part of the game. In cricket , you always want to perform , regardless of what we 're getting paid. It 's about personal pride and trying to do as well as you can every time you go out there , " he said . Anderson has managed just 114 runs in seven games @ 16.28 , and taken just four wickets , while giving away 107 runs in 10 overs . Dwelling on his ordinary show so far , the youngster said : " In T20 cricket , sometimes you hit a six , and at times you get out. The more you think about it , the deeper the hole you dig for yourself. Obviously , I would have liked to do better than I have. Hopefully , the corner turns , and I 'm able to win games for Mumbai , " he said . Reflecting on MI 's turnaround after losing the first five games in a row , Anderson said : " I guess the defending champs are always under pressure to come out and dominate again. Going through losses makes a team stronger. At the moment , we 're on track. We 've won two in a row. There is still a long time to go , " he stressed . Revealing the mood in the dressing room after five successive losses , the Kiwi said : " The message was : 'Do n't panic. ' There are a few smart heads in our changing room. When they say do n't panic , you are reassured , because they 've been there and done it before. " http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Mumbai Indians,IPL,Corey Anderson,Ambati Rayudu,Aditya Tare Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
