Cornered Royal Challengers Bangalore desperately seek succour against Rajasthan Royals Shrivathsa Sridhar Shrivathsa Sridhar,TNN | May 11 , 2014 , 12.48 PM IST RCB will want to prove that they are more than a three-headed monster that has fallen asleep. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED BANGALORE : Royal Challengers Bangalore 's challenge ahead of the second of three back-to back matches at home appears simple yet intimidating . Lurking in the bottom half of the points table with just six points from eight matches , the Virat Kohli-led team will have to win their remaining six games to give themselves the best chance of shedding the tag of underachievers in this tournament . Hammered by the all-conquering Kings XI Punjab at the M Chinnaswamy stadium on Friday evening , RCB face the unenviable task of tackling a third-placed Rajasthan Royals team that will be looking to avenge last season 's defeat in this same fixture . Royals , sitting pretty with 10 points after eight matches , will also be keen to bounce back from a humiliating 32-run loss to Sunrisers Hyderabad earlier in the week . Royals will not have to look far if they are to target chinks in the RCB armour. For a team that has largely relied on the big-hitting of Chris Gayle , the steady strokeplay of Kohli and AB de Villiers ' pyrotechnics on many occasions , it appears little has changed this time . RCB will want to prove that they are more than a three-headed monster that has fallen asleep . It 's this display of character that RCB all-rounder Albie Morkel urged from his teammates after the 32-run loss to KXIP on Friday . " On paper , we 've got a side that can compete for a semifinal spot. We 've bowled well , barring maybe the last two matches , " he said , before getting to the root of RCB 's problems . " We have struggled as a batting unit. The batting group just needs to sit down and realize its importance to stay positive. " RCB can not afford another slip-up against the Shane Watson-led Royals , lest they complicate the road ahead with another home match on Tuesday against Delhi Daredevils . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virat Kohli,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Rajasthan Royals,Chris Gayle,Albie Morkel Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
