CSK bring down curtains on RCB in IPL 7 Sunil Subbaiah Sunil Subbaiah,TNN | May 25 , 2014 , 05.52 AM IST The outcome helped Chennai Super Kings complete their league engagements with 18 points while RCB finished second from the bottom with ten points. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED BANGALORE : Royal Challengers Bangalore 's disastrous Indian Premier League campaign went from abysmal to downright embarrassing . An astonishing display of power hitting from skipper Virat Kohli ( 49-ball 73 ) failed to have any impact as RCB suffered an eight-wicket defeat at the hands of Chennai Super Kings at the M Chinnaswamy stadium on Saturday . The outcome helped Chennai complete their league engagements with 18 points while RCB finished second from the bottom with ten points . Chennai batsmen maintained their composure throughout their pursuit of an under par target of 155. MS Dhoni ( 28-ball unbeaten 49 ) was the architect of the win which came with 14 balls and eight wickets to spare . Needing 44 off 30 balls , Dhoni clobbered Yuvraj Singh for 22 runs including two sixes and two boundaries. Giving Dhoni company was Faf du Plessis who slammed a 43-ball unbeaten 54 , laced with three sixes and three boundaries. The duo forged a 75-run third wicket stand from 49 balls . Earlier , Ashish Nehra , making his second appearance this season , was RCB 's tormenter-in-chief snaring three wickets. Put in to bat , RCB lost three quick wickets within six overs. Thereafter it was Yuvraj Singh ( 25 ) and Kohli who steadied the ship with a 50-ball 55-run fourth wicket stand . Kohli was belligerent , walloping five sixes and two boundaries en route to his 49-ball 73. He was particularly severe on R Ashwin , clobbering the spinner for 22 runs in 14 balls . This was his second half century of the tournament after his 67 against Sunrisers Hyderabad a week ago . However Nehra , who had earlier accounted for opener Rilee Rossouw ( 1 ) and AB de Villiers ( 10 ) , returned to end Kohli 's splendid run with a clever delivery towards the end of the innings. Kohli , looking to squeeze the yorker out , played onto his shoe and was bowled off his pads . RCB were without Chris Gayle , who was nursing a back injury while CSK brought in Samuel Badree and Nehra . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virat Kohli,Chris Gayle,Chennai Super Kings,Ashish Nehra,Royal Challengers Bangalore Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
