Chennai Super Kings Faf du Plessis plays a shot against Royal Challengers Bangalore at M Chinnaswamy Stadium in Bangalore. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED BANGALORE : Chennai Super Kings cruised to a comfortable eight-wicket victory over an out-of-sorts Royal Challengers Bangalore to strengthen their second place in the seventh edition of the IPL on Saturday . Chasing a modest target of 154 set by RCB largely due to Virat Kohli 's 49-ball-73 , the CSK batsmen made minimum fuss as a collective effort saw them cross the line with as many as 14 balls to spare . CSK thus finished their league engagements with 18 points from 14 games by virtue of nine victories. Their net run-rate is + 0.385 which they would expect that KKR does not surpass during their evening match against Sunrisers Hyderabad . Faf du Plessis revelled in the role of an opener scoring an unbeaten 54 and also enjoying couple of fruitful partnerships of 57 for the opening stand with Dwayne Smith ( 34 ) and an unbroken 75 runs with skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni for the third wicket . Dhoni , who is always in his element in the cash-rich league , smacked his way to 49 off only 28 balls to ensure that the run-rate is suitably beefed up. Dhoni 's innings had four boundaries and three sixes while Du Plessis hit three fours and three sixes . He was severe on the left-arm spinners as two of his three sixes came in Yuvraj Singh 's one over and the other was hit off Shadab Jakati . The winning hit came off Du Plessis ' bat as he lofted Jakati for a big six to end it in style. Smith again gave CSK a good start as he smashed his way to 34 off 17 balls with four boundaries and a six. CSK had pocketed the match by the end of the Powerplay as 64 runs came off six overs . Left-arm spinner Jakati , who had enjoyed a bit of success for the CSK , had a horrible outing giving away 41 runs in his listless 3.4 overs. Mitchell Starc was also hammered for 33 runs in three overs . Earlier , Kohli stood tall among his struggling teammates with a stroke-filled half-century. He struck 73 off 49 balls with two fours and five sixes as some of the other batsmen failed to get going against a disciplined CSK attack . Veteran left-arm seamer Ashish Nehra impressed one and all with figures of three for 33 including two beautiful deliveries to dismiss Rilee Russouw ( 1 ) and AB de Villiers ( 10 ) . He got the South Africa 's limited overs captain with a perfect yorker that pegged the middle-stump back . In his final over , Nehra removed rival skipper Kohli to show that Dhoni 's decision to field him after a gap of 12 matches ( he played the first match ) was correct . Save Kohli , none of other batsmen could find their feet and he fought a lone battle against CSK . Out of his five sixes , four were hit over the deep mid-wicket region while the other was hit in the long-off region. Kohli was finally out when Nehra bowled a well disguised slower delivery that rolled into the stumps . Kohli had a 55-run partnership for fourth wicket with Yuvraj and scripted a 42-run partnership for fifth wicket with De Villiers , before the mercurial South African was castled by Nehra . With three down for 33 in sixth over , Yuvraj and Kohli out their heads down to build the innings. In tenth over , Kohli cut lose and plundered 10 runs along with Yuvraj , which also included a six off Ashwin over long-on . In the next 18 deliveries , Yuvraj and Kohli cracked 27 runs with flurry of boundaries against Suresh Raina and Ashwin. However , the Rs 14-crore baby was out to a woeful shot off to left-arm spinner Ravindra Jadeja for 25 off 24 balls with two boundaries , leaving Bangalore struggling at 88 for four in 14 overs . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Royal Challengers Bangalore,Mahendra Singh Dhoni,IPL 7,Faf du Plessis,Chennai Super Kings Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
