Sunrisers Hyderabad 's David Warner plays a shot during the IPL 7 match against Royal Challengers Bangalore at Chinnaswamy Stadium in Bangalore. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED BANGALORE : AB de Villiers notched up an unbeaten 41-ball 89 to help Royal Challengers Bangalore chase down 156-run target against Sunrisers Hyderabad in IPL match . Earlier , David Warner 's fighting knock of 61 off 49 balls helped Sunrisers Hyderabad post a challenging 155 for six in their Indian Premier League match against Royal Challengers Bangalore on Sunday . Warner hit four boundaries and three sixes as he steadied Hyderabad innings , along with captain Shikhar Dhawan ( 37 off 36 balls ) with a 62-run partnership for third wicket at the Chinnaswamy stadium . Put into bat , Hyderabad lost their in-form opener Aaron Finch ( 13 ) and Lokesh Rahul ( 6 ) early as they were reduced to 29 for two in four overs. Mitchel Starc and Ashoke Dinda ( 1/39 ) accounted for both the batsmen . Australian pacer Starc ( 2/21 ) had Finch caught behind by Parthiv Patel and then Dinda sent back local lad Rahul as he fished at an out-going bowl to Chris Gayle at first slip . Warner , who survived a scare while on six when he played an uppish shot , and Dhawan provided stability for the visitors by adding 62 runs for third wicket in the next nine overs . Both played some effective shots during their partnership and prominent among those were the boundaries scored off Varun Aaron ( 2/33 ) and Harshel Patel ( 1/29 ) . A moment of indiscretion cost Dhawan his wicket as he pulled one off Aaron straight into the hands of A B de Villiers who was standing at deep mid-wicket after making 37 off 36 balls with four hits to the fence . But Warner continued to fight as he smashed Yuzvendra Chahal for a six over the bowler 's head and followed it up by accumulating seven more runs. He was ultimately castled by Starc in the last over of the innings . Darren Sammy then smashed a flat over long-off for a six to prop up Hyderabad 's innings but was holed out by Starc off Harshal Patel in deep mid-wicket for eight in as many balls in 16th over . Naman Ojha looked in good nick and contributed 15 runs off 11 balls , which included a gentle guide into the Hyderabad dug-out for a boundary and a six , before he was caught by Starc at third-man fence off Aaron . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunrisers Hyderabad,Shikhar Dhawan,Royal Challengers Bangalore,IPL 7,David Warner Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
