Delhi Daredevils brace for CSK spin attack Devadyuti Das Devadyuti Das,TNN | May 5 , 2014 , 09.59 AM IST Delhi face a daunting challenge of stopping the Chennai juggernaut. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : Two horses are heading the field and by some distance. IPL 7 is not even halfway through but Chennai Super Kings and Kings XI Punjab - leaders on the points table - have already both won five matches in succession . Monday evening 's IPL encounter at the Ferozeshah Kotla will be a battle between sides at the opposite ends of the table - CSK at the top and Delhi Daredevils at the seventh spot. The home side , who have only won two matches out of their first six , face a daunting challenge of stopping the Chennai juggernaut . MS Dhoni 's CSK on current form are once again the team to beat this season. Their bowling attack has the perfect mix for a tournament like this - two quality spinners in Ravindra Jadeja and R. Ashwin , efficient medium-pacers in Ishwar Pandey and Mohit Sharma and one genuine swing bowler in Ben Hilfenhaus . If that 's not enough they have a batting line-up to envy. The new opening combination of Dwayne Smith and Brendon McCullum has been by far the best in the tournament which is followed by a power-packed middle-order with Suresh Raina , Faf du Plessis , skipper Dhoni and Jadeja as well . Five wins on the trot but the two time IPL champions are in no mood to take their foot off the pedal. " Right now the things are going really well but we know how quickly things can change. We ca n't relax at any stage in the tournament , " CSK coach Stephen Fleming said at the Kotla on Sunday . " In the past we have been slow starters but we were lucky with some of our selections this year and that has paid dividends , " Fleming added . One of Daredevils ' problem has been their inconsistent batting in the tournament so far. Apart from JP Duminy , who has 212 runs in six games , other batsmen have n't fired consistently enough. Delhi need guys like Kevin Pietersen , Murali Vijay and Dinesh Karthik to fire in unison . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Suresh Raina,Ravindra Jadeja,MS Dhoni,Kevin Pietersen,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
