Delhi Daredevils drubbed again , this time by Rajasthan Royals Ajit Bezbaruah Ajit Bezbaruah,TNN | May 16 , 2014 , 08.36 AM IST Rajasthan Royals players celebrate wicket of Delhi Daredevils ' Ross Taylor during their IPL 7 match in Ahmedabad. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED AHMEDABAD : Delhi Daredevils slumped to yet another embarrassing defeat in IPL 7 , losing by 62 runs to Rajasthan Royals , their ninth loss in 11 games . They remain firmly rooted to the bottom of the table . Chasing a hefty target of 202 against a disciplined , motivated unit , Daredevils soon found themselves fishing in troubled waters after losing five wickets for 58 even before the 10th over was completed . Skipper Kevin Pietersen , who , in a bid to lead from the front , came to open the innings , fell for a disappointing 13 off 18 balls. Leading batsmen Dinesh Karthik , JP Duminy and Ross Taylor , who finally got a game , also fell cheaply as Delhi 's challenge fizzled out in no time. Delhi ultimately finished at 139/9 . Rajasthan employed seven bowlers and each one of them was among the wickets , the most fair distribution of spoils ! It was an important game from the Rajasthan Royals ' point of view as the position in the points table will determine whom they play in the playoffs , and they played accordingly to post a healthy 201 for the loss of six wickets after being put into bat . They were on track to finish somewhere in between the 170-180 mark all the way from the start. But James Faulkner 's eight-ball 23 propelled the Royals past the 200-run mark. Faulkner just got to play three ball in the last over and hit two of them for sixes after Ben Cutting , who came in and they played accordingly to post a healthy 201 for the loss of six wickets after being put into bat . They were on track to finish somewhere in between the 170-180 mark all the way from the start. But James Faulkner 's eight-ball 23 propelled the Royals past the 200-run mark. Faulkner just got to play three ball in the last over and hit two of them for sixes after Ben Cutting , who came in place for injured Shane Watson , failed to connect the first three . The light drizzle soon after the toss brought in the covers for a while but did n't have any impact on the proceedings as Ajinkya Rahane and Karun Nair picked 19 runs from the first two overs . But just one run in the third over , bowled by Siddharth Kaul , acted as a kick on the backside and they upped the ante with a flurry of fours and sixes. But Nair could n't pick an arm ball from Shahbaz Nadeem and was trapped plumb in front . Kevon Cooper , promoted up the order , played like any of his West Indian counterparts in this IPL , a sweet cameo of 32 from 16 balls with two boundaries and three sixes , and for a while threatened to demolish Delhi single-handedly . But he failed to clear the boundary for once and Rahul Shukla held on to a skier off the bowling of JP Duminy . Then came Sanju Samson who was severe on the seamers , especially Kaul , and hit as many fours and sixes as Cooper and added 40 runs from 25 balls to the Royals total. He put on 74 runs from just 40 balls for the third wicket with Rahane who scored yet another 50. Both got out in quick succession but left the stage for Faulkner to come into play . The pitch , which was not ideal for stroke-making in the previous game , proved to be a belter this time around and it gave the freedom and opportunity to hit on the up and through the line . The Delhi bowlers once again went for plenty but managed to , for a change , pick up a few wickets . The pitch , which was not ideal for stroke-making in the previous game , proved to be a belter this time around and it gave the freedom and opportunity to hit on the up and through the line . The Delhi bowlers once again went for plenty but managed to , for a change , pick up a few wickets . TALKING POINT Gary Kirsten has seen better days as the coach of Indian and South African national team. But the high profile coach has failed miserably in an environment where he had to build a unit from scratch. What 's more troubling is that despite DD having some quality international players in their ranks , Kirsten has n't managed to get the best out of them and neither has he succeeded in finding the right combination . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Shane Watson,Rajasthan Royals,Kevin Pietersen,Dinesh Karthik,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
