Delhi Daredevils , Kolkata Knight Riders seek turnaround Devadyuti Das Devadyuti Das,TNN | May 7 , 2014 , 11.13 AM IST Gambhir will be hoping that a return to his home ground at Kotla will be able to turn things around. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : The batsmen have fired , it 's time for the bowlers to step up to the plate for the Delhi Daredevils . The pace centric attack of the home side has struggled on the batting paradise that is Ferozeshah Kotla , and the arrival of South African leg-spinner Imran Tahir is just what Kevin Pietersen 's beleaguered side need at the moment . The Daredevils bowling has lacked penetration , with spearhead Mohammad Shami struggling to provide early breakthroughs. Tahir will arrive in the Capital on Tuesday night and will be available for the match against Kolkata Knight Riders on Wednesday . The leg-spinner was one of the leading wicket-takers during the World T20 in Bangladesh and Daredevils desperately need his craft and skill . Wallowing at the bottom half of the points table , the Daredevils showed some signs of improvement against the strong Chennai Super Kings side. The batting fired collectively to post a competitive score of 178 . Now they are up against a side which has been left badly bruised after a heart-breaking loss to Rajasthan Royals. KKR had no business losing a match placed at 121 for no loss chasing 171 but lost six wickets for two runs thereafter . Delhi skipper Kevin Pietersen , though , is not prepared to take this game lightly , knowing fully well that they pretty much need to win every single game to remain in the hunt for playoffs . " I am not thinking that tomorrow is an easy game. I am incredibly proud of how we played last night. It 's just that we did not get over the line. Talking about tomorrow 's match , we ca n't guarantee a win but we can guarantee a good show , " Pietersen said here on Tuesday . Knight Riders ' batting has been as brittle as their temperament and just when skipper Gautam Gambhir is finding his touch , the rest of the line-up is letting him down . Gambhir , who scored his first fifty of IPL 7 on Monday , will be hoping that a return to his home ground at Kotla will be able to turn things around . What the Devils do need to watch out for is KKR mystery spinner Sunil Narine , who has kept almost every batsman in IPL 7 tied in knots . Both teams are yet to win a game on Indian soil this season , but one of them will change that stat on Wednesday . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunil Narine,Kolkata Knight Riders,Kevin Pietersen,Gautam Gambhir,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
