Delhi Daredevils look to Kevin Pietersen for a boost K Shriniwas Rao K Shriniwas Rao,TNN | Apr 25 , 2014 , 09.44 AM IST Pietersen 's presence will add to the pressure for Sunrisers Hyderabad , who are yet to win a game. ( AFP Photo ) RELATED SHARJAH : Kevin Pietersen looks all set to return to the Delhi Daredevils playing XI in the match against Sunrisers Hyderabad at the Dubai Cricket Stadium on Friday afternoon . Pietersen had missed all the three matches played by the Daredevils until now because of a finger injury sustained a month ago in the UK . Pietersen 's return will add muscle to the beleaguered Delhi Daredevils , who have won one game and lost two. His presence will add to the pressure for Sunrisers Hyderabad , who are yet to win a game . The form of their batsmen is the main concern but Hyderabad have a bowling unit ready to take on the best. It is this bowling order that saw them come close to defending a paltry 133 against the Rajasthan Royals last week . If their batsmen can manage some runs , the likes of Dale Steyn , Amit Mishra , Darren Sammy and Bhuvneshwar Kumar have looked good enough to cut through any opposition . Daredevils , on the other hand , saw a victory coming their way when stand-in skipper Dinesh Karthik and South African import JP Duminy struck half-centuries against the Kolkata Knight Riders in Dubai on Saturday . The Dubai Cricket Stadium has a huge playing area and the boundary rope lies at a distance of 70 metres. With that in mind , both sides will have little choice but to look into their team combinations for the cleanest strikers of the ball . In that context , Delhi will look forward to Pietersen 's return while Hyderabad will look at David Warner - who 's looked completely out of touch until now - to deliver . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunrisers Hyderabad,Kevin Pietersen,Delhi Daredevils,Darren Sammy,Bhuvneshwar Kumar Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
