De Villiers seals crucial victory for Bangalore over Hyderabad Vedam JaishankarVedam Jaishankar,TNN | May 5 , 2014 , 08.29 AM IST De Villiers blasted an unbeaten 89 off only 41 balls to take his team home with a ball to spare. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED BANGALORE : AB de Villiers once again showed his explosive power and class as he led Royal Challengers Bangalore to a crucial victory over Sunrisers Hyderabad in their IPL match on Sunday . Needing 156 to win , the home team looked in trouble after losing leading batsmen Chris Gayle , Virat Kohli and Yuvraj Singh cheaply. But De Villiers tore into the Sunrisers ' attack , blasting an unbeaten 89 off only 41 balls to take his team home with a ball to spare . De Villiers cracked 6 fours and 8 sixes and did not spare even countrymate Dale Steyn . Earlier , the hard , new ball and the extra bounce in the pitch accounted for two early wickets but David Warner 's pluck , hard-hitting and improvisation took Sunrisers to a competitive total . Opting to field in the first match of this year 's IPL T20 at their home turf , Bangalore 's Australian recruit Mitchell Starc found the pitch to his liking and accounted for Aaron Finch while Ashoke Dinda had young KL Rahul. But skipper Shikhar Dhawan ( 37 ) , though not always on top of his game , stuck it out with a relatively more assured Warner . Their 62-run stand in 58 balls was not the best advertisement for T20 cricket but kept Sunrisers in the fight and gave them some platform to step on the gas in later overs . RCB , who went in with four pacemen on this pitch , seemed to have got the bowling combination right. Dinda , Varun Aaron and Harshal Patel bowled well in patches while Starc was truly impressive . The paceman got the ball to bounce disconcertingly off a length and for good measure he fired a few well-directed yorkers . Warner who hammered three sixes and four boundaries in his 49-ball knock of 61 was more circumspect than he usually is . He eschewed most of his adventurous strokes against the new ball but as the innings progressed showed glimpses of his power , particularly when he slammed Dinda for a couple of sixes into the straight field. Warner was castled by Starc in the final over . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunrisers Hyderabad,Royal Challengers Bangalore,David Warner,Dale Steyn,AB de Villiers Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
