Devils lose as Nair fashions Rajasthan win Devadyuti Das Devadyuti Das,TNN | May 4 , 2014 , 12.07 PM IST Nair completed his first IPL fifty off only 41 balls. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : Delhi Daredevils rely a lot on their big guns - Kevin Pietersen , JP Duminy & Co - while their opponents Rajasthan Royals have always been the exact opposite. Players like Karun Nair , Sanju Samson and Pravin Tambe will never fill stadiums but they do get the job done . The Royals made the most of their modest resources and for a second year in a row hammered the Daredevils at Ferozeshah Kotla here by seven wickets on Saturday. Chasing a target of 153 on a slow Kotla track , the Royals paced their chase perfectly and got home with an over and a half to spare . In the process they thoroughly exposed the Daredevils ' limitations this season. The Pietersen-led outfit made the mistake of picking a pace-centric squad and lack of quality spin bowler is going to haunt them throughout IPL 7 . Young Rajasthan batsman Nair ( 73 no ; 50b , 8x4 , 2x6 ) , who was under pressure to retain his opening position along with Ajinkya Rahane , completed his first IPL fifty off only 41 balls. His 51-run partnership for the second wicket with Samson ( 34 , 28b , 2x4 , 2x6 ) laid the perfect platform for the chase after Rahane for once was dismissed early. Skipper Watson remained unbeaten on 16 off 10 balls . Earlier , the pace - or rather the lack of it - made life real hard for every Delhi Daredevils batsmen with the exception of opener Quinton de Kock and in-form JP Duminy. The home side struggled all the way in their first IPL 7 game at the Kotla but managed to put up an above average score of 152 for five , thanks largely to 18 runs off Kane Richardson 's last over . De Kock ( 43 ; 33b , 5x4 , 1x6 ) looked a class apart from the very first delivery but the rest of the Daredevils top four failed miserably in their bid to get going. The introduction of James Faulkner put the brakes on the scoring after the first four overs produced 33 runs . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Rajasthan Royals,Kevin Pietersen,Karun Nair,Kane Richardson,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
