Sunrisers thrash Chennai by 6 wickets PTI | May 22 , 2014 , 09.46 PM IST David Hussey and skipper MS Dhoni engaged in some enthralling strokeplay as Chennai Super Kings scored an imposing 185/3 against Sunrisers. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED RANCHI : Riding on a fiery knock by David Warner ( 90 off 45 ) Sunrisers Hyderabad thrashed Chennai Super Kings by six wickets in their IPL match in Ranchi on Thursday . Batting first , Chennai posted 185/3 , but Hyderabad achieved the target with ease with two balls to spare . 'Super-Sub ' David Hussey and skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni engaged in some enthrallong strokeplay as Chennai Super Kings scored an imposing 185 for three against Sunrisers Hyderabad . Hussey , justified the faith CSK management entrusted in him by summoning him as Dwayne Bravo 's replacement , scoring a rapid 50 off 33 balls while Dhoni as usual saved his best for the last with another hurricane unbeaten 41-ball-57 that had two fours and four sixes . Dhoni launched into Dale Steyn in the final over of the innings smashing 24 with the help of two fours and two sixes . The duo added a whopping 108 runs in 11.2 overs for the unbroken fourth wicket as CSK crossed the 180-run mark with ease . Hussey timed his innings to perfection as the first 15 runs took him 19 deliveries but he smacked 35 off the next 14 deliveries that had five fours and two huge sixes off Irfan Pathan. Steyn was expensive going for 43 off four while Pathan was smashed for 34 in three overs. Karn Sharma 's two for 19 was the only saving grace . Among the other batsmen , in-form Dwayne Smith again showed his big-hitting prowess with a 28-ball-47 that had four boundaries and four huge sixes . He started with three boundaries off Bhuvneshwar Kumar 's first over that had a cover drive , an on-drive and a square drive . When off-spinner Perveez Rasool came into bowl , he was drilled for three huge sixes with two being hit straight into the sightscreen . Faf du Plessis ( 19 ) was playing well but was unlucky as a straight punch by Smith off Karn Sharma saw the stumps at the non-striker 's end get uprooted catching the Proteas batsman short of crease . Smith was done in by a Karn googly as he was trapped plumb in-front. Suresh Raina did not get the big heave right as he was caught in the deep by Aaron Finch off Karn 's bowling . At 77 for three , Dhoni and Hussey joined forces as they first settled down before going for the final assault . The last five overs yielded 68 runs with Steyn 's final over proving to be vital . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Mahendra Singh Dhoni,IPL,Dwayne Bravo,Dale Steyn Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
