McCullum says he has lots to learn from MS Dhoni in his first year with the franchise. ( AP Photo ) RELATED ABU DHABI : Though Chennai Super Kings is home to four international captains this Indian Premier League , New Zealand skipper Brendon McCullum insists that Mahendra Singh Dhoni is the sole leader of the pack and says he has lots to learn from his India counterpart in his first year with the franchise . " At CSK there is only one captain and that is MS Dhoni. He is the sole decision-maker when it comes to the on-field matters. There is not much team talk about that , " said McCullum when asked about his role in the team alongside other international captains in Dhoni , Faf du Plessis of South Africa and Dwayne Bravo of the West Indies . " However , as experienced leaders , we are expected to do small things off the field like guiding the younger players and helping out the team-mates with things they need assistance with. On the field there are smaller things like we must not wait for the captain to wave his hands at us asking to step a bit closer or further. We should be able to figure those things out with our experience , " he was quoted as saying by the tournament 's official website . Both McCullum and Dhoni are wicketkeeper-batsmen but the New Zealander clarified that there is not much in common between the two strong personalities . " Well , there are many things that he and I do n't have in common too. But yes , he is a very nice guy , very humble and one of the best captains in the world. I am pleased to have this opportunity to play under his leadership since there are many things one can learn from the man , " said McCullum , who had earlier played for the Kolkata Knight Riders where he famously blasted an unbeaten 158 against Royal Challengers Bangalore in the first-ever IPL game in 2008 . Asked whether he would like to take over wicket-keeping duties from Dhoni , the New Zealander said : " Oh , no , I am happy to let him do the job behind the stumps. My body is not up to regular work behind the wickets now. I am glad to be in the same team as Dhoni , who is a brilliant wicketkeeper. I am the backup option if the team requires one. " The big-hitting batsman is also excited about his reunion with former teammate and Super Kings coach Stephen Fleming . " It has been a while since I have been in a team where Stephen has been present in a leadership role. It 's nice to listen to the old stories again from him . " For me he was the best captain in the world when I played under him and now , after spending some time with him at the CSK camp , I feel he has grown further stronger as a leader and an individual , " McCullum signed off . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Stephen Fleming,MS Dhoni,IPL,Chennai Super Kings,Brendon McCullum Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
