Kolkata beat Hyderabad by 7 wickets PTI | May 18 , 2014 , 09.47 PM IST David Warner of Sunrisers Hyderabadplays a shot during an IPL 7 match against KKR in Hyderabad on Sunday. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED HYDERABAD : Kolkata Knight Riders defeated Sunrisers Hyderabad by seven wickets in their IPL clash at the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium on Sunday . Yusuf Pathan made an unbeaten 39 while Robin Uthappa chipped in with 40 as Hyderabad achieved the 143-run target in the final over . None of the Sunrisers Hyderabad batsmen could play an innings of substance as the hosts settled for a modest 142 for eight . Sunrisers paid the price of not building partnerships on a wicket that had bounce but still offered plenty to batsmen . David Warner was the top scorer for SRH , smashing his way to 18 ball 34. The Australian took the KKR attack by the scruff of its neck but could not stay for long at the crease . Had it not been for some small contributions from Naman Ojha ( 22 ) and Irfan Pathan ( 23 not out ) , SRH would have struggled to get close to 150-run mark . KKR bowlers , specially the spinners were disciplined and skipper Guatam Gambhir rotated them brilliantly. Paceman Umesh Yadav ( 3/26 ) and left-arm spinner Shakib Al Hasan ( 2/22 ) shared five wickets between them . Earlier , Aaron Finch ( 8 ) was far from convincing as edges flew of his bat. One such edge off a moving delivery from Umesh Yadav was superbly taken by Morne Morkel at third man . Dhawan , who was relived of captaincy , yet again failed to build on a start as his edged off Narine was taken by Gambhir on second attempt . The left-handed opener was striking the ball clean and elegantly. His cover drives off Morkel were simply majestic even as he was guilty of playing a few rash shots . On the other end , Ojha took some time to settle as SRH reached 41 for two in the power-play overs . Warner , who has rescued SRH on many occasions , straight away lifting Shakib for a six over long on. Ojha treated Ryan Ten Doeschate the same way and also launched Hasan for a massive straight six , getting some quick runs for the side. However , he too frittered away the start , handing a simple catch to Yusuf Pathan at point . Gambhir brought on his best bowler , Narine to put more pressure on SRH batsmen , but Warner kept going for his shots , smashing the West Indies spinner for a big six . Warner found two boundaries in Morkel 's over but Lokesh Rahul ( 14 ) was trapped by Piyush Chawla. Paceman Yadav returned and got rid of dangerous Australian to reduce the hosts to 104 for five , bringing new captain Darren Sammy ( 7 ) in the thick of action but he too disappointed . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Guatam Gambhir,Yusuf Pathan,Umesh Yadav,Sunrisers Hyderabad,Kolkata Knight Riders Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
