From ecstasy to agony , Rahul Dravid sees it all again Gaurav Gupta Gaurav Gupta,TNN | May 27 , 2014 , 09.04 AM IST For a second , the great cricketer forgot his poise and his pent up emotions came bursting out. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : It was a rare moment , the kind of which you would n't associate with a 'gentleman cricketer ' like Rahul Dravid. On Sunday night at the Wankhede Stadium , however , Dravid showed that even the 'good guys ' have emotions and can lose the plot once in a while . As soon as Mumbai Indians ' Aditya Tare smashed a James Faulkner full toss into the crowd to seal the last remaining playoff spot for the defending champs , a disgusted Dravid , sitting in the Rajasthan Royals dug-out as the team mentor , flung his cap to the ground . For a second , the great cricketer forgot his poise and his pent up emotions came bursting out . Dravid had reasons to feel devastated. Just one ball earlier , he and his team were celebrating survival by a whisker . MI , everyone felt , were one run short of the 190-run target they needed to get to in 14.3 overs , being 189/5 when Ambati Rayudu was run out. It soon emerged though , that the hosts had another ball to play , in which they needed a boundary , and they eventually went through . After the heart-breaking loss , Dravid conceded it was one of the best matches he had been part of . " We thought we had won the game at one stage. Then , we still had to bowl a ball and they hit the boundary so you can just imagine the emotions. There was sheer disappointment in their camp , joy in our camp and suddenly a ball later that 's completely reversed. So for sheer emotion and drama , I think this was probably one of the best games of cricket I 've been involved in. It 's just disappointing that I happened to be on the wrong side of the result , " he said . Dravid 's dejection stemmed from the way RR 's bowlers allowed Corey Anderson and Ambati Rayudu to add 82 in 31 balls to script the incredible victory for MI . " At that stage , if you bowl a couple of seven , eight-run overs or 10-run overs , the game quickly goes out of hand. But they kept getting that 15 , 16-run over. " http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Rajasthan Royals,Rahul Dravid,James Faulkner,Ambati Rayudu,Aditya Tare Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
