Gambhir fashions Kolkata Knight Riders victory Devadyuti Das Devadyuti Das,TNN | May 8 , 2014 , 11.15 AM IST Kolkata Knight Riders skipper Gautam Gambhir plays a shot against Delhi Daredevils during their IPL 7 match at the Ferozeshah Kotla in New Delhi. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : He copped a tremendous amount of flak in the first half of IPL 7 but Kolkata Knight Riders ' gutsy skipper Gautam Gambhir showed guts and heart to battle out of a rut on Wednesday . Gambhir found it hard to find a single run in the first four games of the tournament but on his home ground of Ferozeshah Kotla , with his team chasing 161 to win , the skipper led from the front , scoring 69 runs off 56 balls ( 5x4 , 2x6 ) against Delhi Daredevils to lead KKR to an eight-wicket victory . This was KKR 's first win in the Indian leg and their third of IPL 7. The home side are now firmly at the bottom of the table with just two wins from eight games , while KKR snapped a run of four successive defeats for their third win . Robin Uthappa 's elevation and his subsequent form at the top of the order seems to have taken the pressure off Gambhir , allowing him to time to settle down. Uthappa ( 47 ; 34b , 5x4 , 1x6 ) and Gambhir put on their second successive century stand for the opening wicket this time , putting on 106 runs off only 71 balls . No one knows the Kotla better than Delhi 's Ranji Trophy captain Gambhir , and the southpaw did n't look in any trouble through the innings apart from a miscued hit off left-arm spinner Shahbaz Nadeem when he was on 43 . The timing and footwork all seem to be slowly coming back for Gambhir , who notched up his second successive fifty in IPL 7 off 39 balls - the sixth time he 's achieved back-to-back fifties - with four fours and a six over midwicket off Laxmi Ratan Shukla . KKR had collapsed sensationally against Rajasthan Royals in their last game after the century opening stand but Gambhir almost carried them past the finish line before getting caught behind off Parnell with just 10 runs to win. Manish Pandey ( 23 n.o. ; 14b , 2x4 ) and Jacques Kallis ( 9 n.o. ) got them to their target . While the Kolkata skipper clawed his way back into form , his counterpart in this match Kevin Pietersen again fell short. KKR spinner Sunil Narine and Shakib Al Hasan befuddled Pietersen during his brief outing in the middle before the Englishman got himself run-out attempting a non-existent single - without even bothering to call his partner Murali Vijay - for a scratchy 12-ball 6 . The decisions of the Daredevils team management was equally puzzling. Their two most in-form batsmen over the course of this tournament have been JP Duminy and Kedar Jadhav but the pair of them only got a total of 25 balls in the middle as Shukla ( 10 ; 14b ) was once again promoted to No. 6 in the order . It was Duminy ( 40 n.o. ; 28b , 3x6 ) and Jadhav 's ( 26 n.o. ; 15b , 3x4 , 1x6 ) fireworks - third time in the last three games - in the last four overs that gave the Daredevils total some semblance of respect as the duo put on 55 in 25 deliveries . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Shakib Al Hasan,Kolkata Knight Riders,JP Duminy,Gautam Gambhir,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
