Kolkata Knight Riders 's Gautam Gambhir plays a shot against Delhi Daredevils during the IPL 7 match at the Feroz Shah Kotla in New Delhi. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : Skipper Gautam Gambhir stroked his way to a fantastic 69 to steer Kolkata Knight Riders to a comfortable eight-wicket victory over a hapless Delhi Daredevils at the Feroz Shah Kotla ground on Wednesday . Chasing a modest 161 for victory , Gambhir and Robin Uthappa ( 47 ) stitched together a 106-run partnership to provide a perfect winning platform as Kolkata cantered to the target in 18.2 overs . Starting on cautious note , the duo gradually gained the momentum and punished the Delhi attack led by Mohammad Shami . Gambhir picked a sliding leg-side delivery from Laxmi Ratan Shukla for a six at mid-wicket region to make his intent clear in the fifth over of the innings as the southpaw got his second half-century of the season . Uthappa also showed his aggressive side against Jean-Paul Duminy to come down against the South African off-spinner and hit a huge six in the widish long-on region . The duo gained confidence with every passing delivery to demoralise the Delhi attack as skipper Kevin Pietersen kept juggling his bowling options . South African left-arm pacer Wayne Parnell finally managed to deny Uthappa his fifty as the Karnataka batsman was caught behind for 47 off 34 deliveries . Manish Pandey ( 23 not out ) then played the perfect supporting role to make sure that Kolkata do not repeat the Ahmedabad fiasco , where the team lost six wickets for two runs , eventually gifting the match to Rajasthan Royals . On a day when nothing worked for Delhi and everything went in Gambhir 's favour , the left-hander did survive a drop catch and an open run out . He was finally caught behind while trying to pull a rising Parnell delivery as Dinesh Karthik gloved a beauty in the 18th over. It was left to Kallis ( 10 not out ) to complete the formalities . With misfields galore , the Delhi fielders did little to help their tired-looking bowlers . Earlier electing to bat on a hot and humid day , Delhi posted a respectable 160 for five in 20 overs . Duminy smacked 40 off 28 balls while Kedar Jadhav blasted 26 off 15 to manage a 55-run unbeaten stand and provide the necessary impetus in the end . Kolkata opened the bowling with off-spinner Suryakumar Yadav with Kallis sharing the new ball . Umesh Yadav drew first blood for Kolkata in the third over , getting De Kock ( 10 ) caught by Gautam Gambhir at mid-on . Pietersen ( 6 ) looked completely out of sorts in his short stay at the wicket and after being circumspect against the spinners the England batsman ran himself out while trying to take a needless run . Murali Vijay ( 24 ) and Dinesh Karthik ( 36 ) then tried to stabilise the innings as KKR continued to juggle their bowling options. The duo added 31 runs for the third-wicket as both the batsmen mixed the right dose of caution and aggression to give some momentum to the Delhi innings . Trying to push the scoring rate , Vijay finally holed out a simple catch to Sunil Narine at long on as Kallis got his first wicket . The hard-working Karthik continued to put runs on board and gave Kallis a hard time as he hit the Proteas medium-pacer for a six and two fours in the 11th over . Kallis though got his revenge when he caught the Delhi batsman in the very next over off Shakib al Hasan for 36 . The over-ambitious Karthik tried the paddle scoop again only to top edge the ball to short fine leg . Laxmi Ratan Shukla and Jean-Paul Duminy did try to up the ante but clinical bowling from Umesh and R Vinay Kumar kept the batsmen in check even in the middle overs . Kolkata 's spin ace Sunil Narine finally struck in the 16th over to clean up to end Shukla 's agony for 10 . Laxman 's exit though proved a blessing in disguise for Delhi as new man Kedar Jadhav smacked a four and a six against Vinay to provide some entertainment to the Kotla crowd . Duminy and Jadhav entertained the crowd with fours and sixes as they managed to notch up a run-rate of over 13 in the final four overs . With just 2 wins in 8 games , Delhi will certainly find it hard to make it to the play-offs while Kolkata continue to live on hope , prayers and more wins . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Robin Uthappa,Kolkata Knight Riders,IPL 7,Gautam Gambhir,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
