Akram believes Gambhir remains a vital cog in the team. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED CHENNAI : Kolkata Knight Riders , after a slow start in IPL 7 , have gained momentum. As things stand at the moment , the former IPL champions have 12 points in their kitty and are in the running for a last-four berth . Team mentor Wasim Akram , in an interaction with TOI on Saturday , talked on KKR 's resurgence in the tournament and why skipper Gautam Gambhir remains a vital cog in the team . Excerpts : KKR seem to have found their mojo as the tournament reaches its business end. What according to you has worked for the team ? It was a new team , and a new combination of players. At times , it does take time for things to come together. The team is filled with talent and it was just a matter of time before things started to click . How do you view Gautam Gambhir 's captaincy in the season ? Gautam is an exceptional leader and his results are there for all to see. The way he has come back to form after the first few disappointments says a lot about his mental strength. He is someone who leads from the front . Does training a bunch of bowlers such as Sunil Narine , Morne Morkel and Umesh Yadav become easier since they know what is expected of them ? Yes , definitely. These guys have played cricket at the highest level , and have a lot of experience. Even with the likes of ( Vinay ) Kumar , ( Piyush ) Chawla and Shakib -it is all about helping them to approach a game from the psychological perspective . Who according to you has been the find of the season for KKR ? I reckon the find of the season for us has been Suryakumar Yadav. The way he batted in the first few matches has been very impressive , and he is also an exceptional fielder . What according to you separates KKR from the rest of the teams ? Without doubt , our captain ! I think Gautam is a captain who inspires his team and makes the difference. His return to form has also very crucial . Do you feel Pakistan players like Shahid Afridi and Saeed Ajmal would have made the IPL even more interesting ? Definitely. The Pakistan players have a lot to offer. People in Pakistan love to watch the IPL , and the craze there would have been even more if the players were allowed to play. I know that there is a lot of support for KKR in Pakistan as I am the only Pakistani involved with the IPL. I feel politics and sports should not be mixed . With your success at KKR , will we see Akram being part of the Pakistan national team in a coaching/mentoring capacity in the near future ? I am busy till 2015 with my other commitments. I have always offered support and advice to anyone who has approached me. This will always be the case as I am willing to guide any upcoming cricketer who seeks my help . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = wasim akram,Sunil Narine,Shahid Afridi,Kolkata Knight Riders,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
