Kieron Pollard had flung his bat at Mitchell Starc after the Aussie bowler had attempted to bowl at West Indian 's body after he moved away from the crease. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : Royal Challengers Bangalore ( RCB ) opener Chris Gayle has played down the ugly spat between his teammate Mitchell Starc and Mumbai Indians ' Kieron Pollard in an ill-tempered game at the Wankhede on Tuesday . Pollard had flung his bat at Starc after the Aussie bowler had attempted to bowl at West Indian 's body after he moved away from the crease. The incident was seen as another joust between an Australian and a West Indian cricketer . Gayle , however , ruled that out. " There is no such thing as Australia-West Indian rivalry. Both the teams have players from either country. It was just that both teams needed two crucial victory points and it was an intense game. Players sometime lose their cool and that 's it , " said the 34-year-old who was speaking on the sidelines of a promotional event . Despite not being in a good position , the Jamaican felt that RCB has a lot to offer and will surely bounce back. " We may be down but certainly not out. We may have lost four games but we have three matches coming up on our home turf and that should change the situation and help us gain the momentum. We are still backing ourselves to get the job done , " the southpaw pointed out . Meanwhile , Gayle is extremely hurt to see Manchester United struggling. " Though I know it 's a sport and big teams do go through bad times I feel sad to see Man United struggling , " admitted Gayle , who was promoting the Adidas FIFA Fairplay Flag Bearers Program. Two out of 150 kids from the city were selected to become the official FIFA Fairplay Flag Bearers and will now head to Brazil . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Mitchell Starc,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Mumbai Indians,Kieron Pollard,Chris Gayle Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
