" I have made changes in my setup and my initial movements. This has helped me improve my shot selection and my footwork a lot " , Robin Uthappa said. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED CHENNAI : Robin Uthappa has played his part in helping Kolkata Knight Riders stay in the hunt for a play-off berth. The right-hander is currently the fourth highest rungetter in the tournament with 302 runs from 9 games . The 28-year-old told TOI on the changes he has made to his batting , the influence of former India batsman Pravin Amre on his game and his hunger return to the Indian team. Excerpts : Could you speak on the alterations you have made to your batting technique ? I have made changes in my setup and my initial movements. This has helped me improve my shot selection and my footwork a lot . Was it challenging for you to make changes to your natural game at this stage of your career ? It was a little difficult , and I had to work hard at it. As a cricketer you have to keep learning and adapting to the game and that is always a challenge , one that I am always keen on taking on as it only helps me grow . How crucial was Pravin Amre 's role as your personal coach ? Pravin sir had a very positive influence on my game. There are a lot of things that we have worked on with regard to my technique , approach to the game etc. and I can feel the improvement that he has brought and the results are there for everyone to see . You seem to be enjoying the opener 's role after playing in the middle-order in the last few seasons . I 'm basically an opening batsman and will always be most comfortable in that role. However , I 'm willing to play in any position which suits the team best. As an opening batsman , it is imperative that a good foundation is laid for the team and I intend to do that every time I go out to bat. Coming in the middle-order is quite different as you have fewer balls to settle down . Having been out of the national team , what have you missed the most ? Is the hunger still there to make the India cut all over again ? I have definitely missed contributing to the success of our team in the last few years. As far as the hunger is concerned , I believe my performances are speaking on my behalf. And I do believe that I am the opening batsman that the team is looking for and am confident that I am going to contribute a lot to the country 's success in the future . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Robin Uthappa,Pravin Amre,Kolkata Knight Riders,IPL 7 Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
