India shining in Premier League Devadyuti Das Devadyuti Das,TNN | Jun 3 , 2014 , 09.28 AM IST The Orange Cap well and truly belonged to Uthappa , only the second Indian to get it after Sachin Tendulkar. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : It was about time Indian players stood up to be counted in the Indian Premier League. And they did it in style , adding their own charm to IPL 7 which was being dominated by foreign stars for most of the first half . In games that mattered most in IPL 7 , it was the Indians - be it the rejuvenated Virender Sehwag , Robin Uthappa or Manish Pandey - who were critical to the success of the two most successful sides in IPL 7 , Kolkata Knight Riders and Kings XI Punjab . It would have been hard to put money on eventual champions KKR after the first seven games , which resulted in five losses for the 2011 champions. The elevation of Uthappa to the top of the order set the wheels of success in motion for Gautam Gambhir 's side . As the skipper also started to find his feet , Uthappa reeled off 10 successive scores of over 40 - a new record in IPL - and eventually ended up as the highest run-scorer with 660 runs in 16 games. The Orange Cap well and truly belonged to Uthappa , only the second Indian to get it after Sachin Tendulkar in 2009 . Besides KKR , the team of the tournament was definitely Kings XI , who set the early pace in the tournament on the back of Glenn Maxwell and David Miller 's fireworks. However , it was left to Sehwag , Wriddhiman Saha and Manan Vohra to lift them in the home stretch . Chennai Super Kings had planned their strategy around Maxwell for Qualifier 2 but it was Sehwag who to put them to the sword with a vintage 122 . Sehwag got the team into the final while it was Saha , in the company of Vohra , who set the ball rolling . Saha , who was a revelation , was the standout keeper-batsman of the season . On most nights , Saha 's 115 would have been enough to settle the issue but Manish Pandey was eyeing a triumph at home in Bangalore. Pandey 's 94 made him the 10th highest run-scorer this year and it was his ability to rise when the going got tough that secured the title for the Knight Riders . Two other Indians - Akshar Patel and Piyush Chawla - also played their own quiet roles. Patel , playing in his first IPL , gave away only 23 and 21 runs in the playoff and final when teams posted big totals . KKR 's Chawla hit the most important six of his career when he smashed the fearsome Mitchell Johnson in the penultimate over of the final to seal the victory . Take a bow , homemade heroes of IPL . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Wriddhiman Saha,Virender Sehwag,Sachin Tendulkar,Robin Uthappa,Manish Pandey Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
