In the three matches that the Knight Riders have played so far , Gambhir has lost his wicket to pacers - Lasith Malinga , Nathan Coulter-Nile and Mitchell Starc , all three times in different fashion. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED DUBAI : Catches win matches. Ask Kolkata Knight Riders . Riding high on a shocking victory against the formidable Royal Challengers Bangalore on Thursday , Gautam Gambhir & Co. run into another very strong team on Saturday , this time table-toppers Kings XI Punjab . Ahead of the big clash though , there 's one worry for the Knights - the wretched form of their skipper Gautam Gambhir , who 's registered three ducks in three games so far . The left-hander from Delhi who led the Knights to the title in 2012 is struggling badly. In the three matches that the Knight Riders have played so far , Gambhir has lost his wicket to pacers - Lasith Malinga , Nathan Coulter-Nile and Mitchell Starc , all three times in different fashion . However , if there 's been a common trend to those dismissals , it 's been the batsman 's inability to be in time to play the ball. Being the captain , and also one of the senior-most batsmen in the side , the Knights have no choice but to pursue with Gambhir in Saturday 's game too , but it 'll be added pressure on the team to see him get back among the runs. There 's no question , it 'll be playing on his mind too . " We all feel for anyone who does n't score any runs three times in a row. But we all know that he 's a good player and I 'm sure he 'll come good before too long , " KKR coach Trevor Bayliss said . The Knights have seen contributions from seniors like Jacques Kallis and young men like Chris Lynn and Manish Pandey . " The impressive thing from the team 's point of view is that the rest of the team has contributed even though the captain missed out. The players have fought well and have shown that we do n't necessarily need our captain to be scoring runs to win cricket matches. " http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Jacques Kallis,Gautam Gambhir,Trevor Bayliss,Kolkata Knight Riders,Kings XI Punjab Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
