Pacers Jaydev Unadkat ( 2/29 ) and Wayne Parnell ( 1/17 ) and spinner Shahbaz Nadeem ( 1/19 ) shared four wickets to strangle the Mumbai. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED SHARJAH : Delhi Daredevils dished out a clinical bowling display to restrict defending champions Mumbai Indians to a modest 125 for six in an Indian Premier League match on Sunday . Pacers Jaydev Unadkat ( 2/29 ) and Wayne Parnell ( 1/17 ) and spinner Shahbaz Nadeem ( 1/19 ) shared four wickets to strangle the Mumbai batting unit in their stipulated 20 overs after skipper Rohit Sharma won the toss and decided to bat . Skipper Kevin Pietersen employed a spin-pace attack early on with Nadeem and Mohammad Shami starting the proceedings for Delhi , followed by J P Duminy and Wayne Parnell . Mumbai Skipper Rohit Sharma ( 4 ) was the first to walk back to the pavilion when his attempt to steal a quick single ended up with a runout orchestrated by pacer Shami in the second over . In the fourth over , Parnell dismissed Aditya Tare ( 8 ) when he had him caught at deep midwicket by Quinton de Kock , while Corey Anderson 's 14-ball 13-run stay was cut shot by Jaydev Unadkat in his first over . Mumbai could just manage 37 for the loss of two wickets in the powerplay. Runs dried up further and the mounting pressure took a toll on Ambati Rayudu ( 14 ) when his lofted shot off Nadeem found Laxmi Shukla at long-on . In the 11th over , Michael Hussey ( 10 ) brought up the fifty for Mumbai with a single but he too could not stay longer and was sent back to the hut by a slower yorker in the 14th over as Mumbai lost half of their side with 63 on board . Kieron Pollard ( 33 ) and Chidhambaram Gautam ( 22 ) then joined hands and tried to raise the tempo with some big shots. The duo shared a 40-run partnership off 29 balls for the sixth wicket . Pollard brought up the first six of the innings in the 16th over when he sent Shami sailing over long-on , while Gautam blasted successive boundaries off Unadkat in the 17th over . In the next over , Pollard tried to steal a non-existent double but it ended with Gautam losing his wicket . The West Indies all-rounder then smashed a four and a six off Shami , while Harbhajan singh ( 10 ) blasted a four and six to help Mumbai put a modest total on board . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Jaydev Unadkat,Mumbai Indians,Kieron Pollard,IPL,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
