Heavy downpour forces IPL first qualifier to be postponed by a day PTI | May 27 , 2014 , 06.19 PM IST Both the teams had to cancel their match-eve practice on Monday after the Eden Gardens was lashed with rain. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED KOLKATA : Incessant rainfall for the past few days in the city led to the postponement of the first qualifier of IPL 7 between hosts Kolkata Knight Riders and Kings XI Punjab scheduled at the Eden Gardens on Tuesday . The match will now be held at the same venue at 4 pm on Wednesday. In case the weather holds up in time , there is a possibility of a five-over per side game by 9 : 10 pm latest . At 5 : 15 pm on Tuesday , on-field umpires Nigel Llong and S Ravi had an inspection along with curator Prabir Mukherjee. After consultations , the trio were unanimous in their decision that no play would be possible as the ground would not be ready in time for a minimum five-overs per side match . As per the playing conditions and rules of IPL , in the event that a five-over per side game is not possible , the fate of the match will be decided on the basis of 'Super Over' . In case Super Over is not possible , then Kings XI Punjab by virtue of winning 11 matches in the league stage compared to KKR 's nine games , will go through to the finals . However KKR will have another shot at final as they will be playing the second qualifier against the winner of the 'Eliminator ' between Mumbai Indians and Chennai Super Kings , on May 30 . As per IPL media advisory , the spectators , who have bought the tickets for Tuesday 's game can watch the match using the same ticket on Wednesday . " Ticketholders who purchased tickets for the original match day will be able to enter the stadium on Wednesday on presentation of their original ticket ( with the bar code intact ) at the turnstiles. Gates will open at 2 : 00pm. " " Refunds will only be made to ticket purchasers if the match is cancelled without a ball being bowled - on either of the original day or the reserve day as per the terms and conditions which are stipulated on the tickets. If appropriate , a separate announcement will be made regarding the detailed procedures for obtaining a refund. " http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Kolkata Knight Riders,Kings XI Punjab,IPL 7,Cricket Association of Bengal Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
