READ MORE Suresh Raina | Shikhar Dhawan | Mahendra Singh Dhoni | David Warner | Dale Steyn RELATED SHARJAH : Having opened their account in the ongoing Indian Premier League , Sunrisers Hyderabad will bank on their new-found confidence when they face the acid test of taking on a formidable Chennai Super Kings on Sunday . Sunrisers Hyderabad started their IPL 7 campaign on a disappointing note , losing to Rajasthan Royals and Kings XI Punjab in their first two games , but managed to bounce back against Delhi Daredevils by notching up a narrow four-run win in Dubai last night . Hyderabad rode on the knocks of Aaron Finch ( 88 ) and David Warner ( 58 ) , both of whom stitched a 128-run stand for the unconquered second wicket , and then restricted Delhi to 180 for four to record their first win of the season . Come tomorrow , Finch and Warner will be expected to repeat their exploits against a team , that has been one of the most consistent sides in the cash-rich event . Skipper and opener Shikhar Dhawan is yet to click in the tournament and he would certainly be keen to demonstrate his batting prowess . The middle-order , with the likes of Lokesh Rahul and Y Venugopal Rao , has failed so far and the youngsters must be itching to make a mark . Their bowlers had not done a bad job till now. They had faired well against Rajasthan but could not withstand the Glenn Maxwell tide against Punjab . However , last night they managed to eke out a thrilling win with bowling spearhead Dale Steyn taking two for 33. Besides the South African , Bhuvneshwar Kumar has also been pretty consistent . The team will also depend on leg-spinners Amit Mishra and Karn Sharma to fire in unison . Two-time champions Chennai Super Kings started their IPL 7 campaign with a loss at the hands of Kings XI Punjab , but they lived up to their reputation by storming back with back-to-back victories over Delhi Daredevils , Rajasthan Royals and defending champions Mumbai Indians . Going by their form , CSK will definitely start as overwhelming favourites . Last night they defeated Mumbai Indians comprehensively with the in-from Brendon McCullum hitting a belligerent unbeaten 71 and tomorrow also CSK will rely on yet another flying start by the New Zealander along with his opening partner Dwayne Smith . Suresh Raina will again be the man to watch out for. The left-handed batsman has been one of the most prolific scorers in the IPL , barring yesterday 's match . Faf du Plessis and skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni have always been dangerous customers , while Ravindra Jadeja is a dependable bat as well . CSK 's bowling has also been pretty good. While left-arm spinner Ravindra Jadeja has been consistent. last night , Mohit Sharma ( 4/14 ) produced a fine death bowling display to help the team restrict the title holders to a modest 141 for seven . But mostly it has been a collective effort from the bowlers , especially the pace trio of Ben Hilfenhaus , Ishwar Pandey and Mohit , who were accurate with their swing bowling . Teams ( from ) : Chennai Super Kings : MS Dhoni ( c ) , Suresh Raina , R Ashwin , Ravindra Jadeja , Dwayne Bravo , Faf du Plessis , Brendon McCullum , Dwayne Smith , Ashish Nehra , Mohit Sharma , Samuel Badree , Ben Hilfenhaus , Matt Henry , B Aparajith , Mithun Manhas , Ishwar Pandey , Pawan Negi , Vijay Shankar , Ronit More , John Hastings . Sunrisers Hyderabad : Shikhar Dhawan ( c ) , Dale Steyn , David Warner , Darren Sammy , Amit Mishra , Aaron Finch , Irfan Pathan , Ishant Sharma , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Brendan Taylor , Moises Henriques , Venugopala Rao , Jason Holder , S Aniruddha , Manprit Juneja , KL Rahul , Amit Paunikar , Naman Ojha , Ricky Bhui , Ashish Reddy , Chama Milind , Parveez Rasool , Prashanth Parameshwaran , Karn Sharma . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Suresh Raina,Shikhar Dhawan,Mahendra Singh Dhoni,David Warner,Dale Steyn Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
