READ MORE IPL | Rishi Dhawan | Ishwar Pandey | Corey Anderson | Bhuvneshwar Kumar RELATED ABU DHABI : Some of the younger lot of bowlers in IPL 7 are benefitting immensely from rubbing shoulders with the big names . The young Rishi Dhawan , who plays for Kings XI Punjab , is giving Mitchell Johnson good company. Bhuvneshwar Kumar is bowling alongside Dale Steyn for Hyderabad. In Mumbai , New Zealander Corey Anderson is getting to spend time with Zaheer Khan. Dhawal Kulkarni , who has been impressive for the Rajasthan Royals , is playing under Shane Watson . Speaking to the IPL website , Anderson talked about how he had been learning from Zaheer each day at the Mumbai Indians. " I have spoken to him a few times and he is a master in what he does. Bowling left-arm obviously helps , " he said. " It 's so good to have him ( Zaheer ) around. " At Chennai Super Kings , Ishwar Pandey and Mohit Sharma are experiencing a similar phase with Ben Hilfenhaus. " They both are developing really well and have done well in the initial days of the tournament , " says Hilfenhaus of the two bowlers . Bhuvneshwar is making the most of Steyn 's presence. From sitting next to the South African pacer in the team bus to walking him to practice sessions , chatting him up and more , the young India bowler believes it 's a great opportunity for him . " He 's a great guy to be around with. There 's no pressure of him teaching or me learning. Just casual conversations are so helpful. To watch him in action , whether in a match or at nets sessions is great , " says Bhuvneshwar . The young Dhawan , who played with the Mumbai Indians till last season , is now with Kings XI Punjab , where Johnson is at the helm of the attack. " It was great to have been in the same team with him last season too ( with MI ) and now again. He 's really good to talk to , so yes , there 's a lot of learning happening , " Dhawan was quoted as saying . While IPL , which goes on for close to two months , can be very taxing , there 's also time for these players to catch up on their learning . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = IPL,Rishi Dhawan,Ishwar Pandey,Corey Anderson,Bhuvneshwar Kumar Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
