Gambhir 's men have faltered five times in eight encounters. ( AFP Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : Kolkata Knight Riders captain Gautam Gambhir won the toss and chose to bowl against Kings XI Punjab in their IPL match at the Barabati Stadium in Cuttack on Sunday . Both teams made a couple of changes to their playing XI . Kings XI Punjab brought back all-rounder Rishi Dhawan and speedster Parvinder Awana in the playing XI in place of Shivam Sharma and Lakshmipathy Balaji . The KKR have got Morne Morkel and Piyush Chawla in place of R Vinay Kumar and Shakib Al Hasan . Kings XI Punjab batsman Glenn Maxwell , undoubtedly , has carved a niche for himself in the sphere of T20 cricket with his stroke-play and fearless approach at the wicket . Kings XI 's South African import David Miller , too , has been in ominous touch with the bat . Gambhir has been struggling with consistency . Barring Robin Uthappa , none of the KKR top-order batsmen have shown the application nor the consistency to see them through to the last-four stage . The likes of Jacques Kallis , Yusuf Pathan and Manish Pandey have hardly looked the part as Gambhir 's men have faltered five times in eight encounters . The fragile middle-order has caved in more often than not under pressure and against Rajasthan Royals they reached a new abyss , losing six wickets for just two runs in Ahmedabad. This despite a hundred-run opening stand between Gambhir and Uthappa . The bowlers , too , have been on the expensive side for KKR and with Maxwell and Miller in the opposition ranks ; things look bleak for the Morkels and the Yadavs. And Sunil Narine has hardly got support from the other end . Teams : Kings XI Punjab : George Bailey ( Capt. ) , Virender Sehwag , Mandeep Singh , Glenn Maxwell , David Miller , Wriddhiman Saha , Akshar Patel , Mitchell Johnson , Rishi Dhawan , Parvinder Awana . Kolkata Knight Riders : Gautam Gambhir ( Capt. ) , Robin Uthappa , Manish Pandey , Jacques Kallis , Yusuf Pathan , Ryan ten Doeschate , Suryakumar Yadav , Piyush Chawla , Morne Morkel , Umesh Yadav , Sunil Narine . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virender Sehwag,Kolkata Knight Riders,Kings XI Punjab,Glenn Maxwell,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
