Brendon McCullum of The Chennai Super Kings plays a shot during an IPL 7 match against Mumbai Indians in Dubai on Friday. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED DUBAI : Brendon McCullum slammed an unbeaten 71 runs off 53 balls to help Chennai Super Kings crush title-holders Mumbai Indians by 7 wickets in their Indian Premier League match on Friday . Chennai chased down the modest target of 142 runs with six balls to spare as they registered their third victory in four games . Earlier , Mohit Sharma produced a fine death bowling display and picked up four wickets to help Chennai restrict Mumbai Indians to a modest 141 for seven . Coming on to bowl the 19th over , Mohit picked up three wickets - Ambati Raydu , dangerman Kieron Pollard ( 12 ) and Harbhajan Singh - to prevent a late burst from Mumbai batsmen . Apart from Mohit ( 4/14 ) , Ben Hilfenhaus ( 2/39 ) picked up two wickets for the Chennai utfit . Mumbai 's innings mainly revolved around captain Rohit Sharma and Correy Anderson. While Rohit made 50 off 41 balls with the help of three fours and two sixes , big-hitting Anderson scored 39 off 31 balls . In fact , the 84-run third wicket partnership between the duo was the highlight of Mumbai 's innings especially after they lost their openers for just 25 runs inside five overs . But once the duo departed their innings fell apart as Mumbai could manage just 33 runs off the last five overs for the loss of five wickets . Electing to bat , Mumbai did not have the best of starts as they lost Mike Hussey ( 1 ) and Aditya Tare ( 23 ) early . Hussey 's poor form in the tournament continued as he was bowled by fellow Australian Hilfenhaus in the second over . An over later , Tare perished in search of a big hit , caught by Suresh Raina off Sharma. He struck four boundaries during his 19-ball knock . Anderson , who is yet to fire in the tournament , justified the team 's decision to send him ahead of Rohit as he made a fine 39 off 31 balls with the help of three fours and one six . Together with Rohit , Anderson shared 84 runs off 64 deliveries for the third wicket before a direct hit from Ravichandran Ashwin cut short his stay . After failing in the first two matches , Rohit finally came to his fore and together with Anderson played sensibly to lay the platform for the score . Rohit started cautiously before opening up but he departed just after reaching his fifty , caught by Dwayne Smith off Hilfenhaus in the 18th over . Thereafter , Mumbai batsmen just failed to open their arms as Chennai got their grip over the proceedings . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Correy Anderson,Rohit Sharma,Mumbai Indians,Mohit Sharma,IPL Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
