Kane Richardson of the Rajasthan Royals celebrates the wicket of AB de Villiers of the Royal Challengers Bangalore during their IPL 7 match in Abu Dhabi on Saturday. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED ABU DHABI : A clinical Rajasthan Royals shot out Royal Challengers Bangalore for a paltry 70 , the third lowest total in the Indian Premier League history , and then romped to a six-wicket victory on Saturday . Rajasthan bowlers , led by spinner Pravin Tambe ( 4/20 ) , justified their skipper 's decision to bowl first as only three Bangalore batsmen could touch a double-digit mark . Ironically in 2009 , Rajasthan were at the receiving end of Bangalore 's hostility when they were bundled out for 58 - the lowest IPL score by any team till now . Chasing 71 , Rajasthan cantered to their target in 13 overs with skipper Shane Watson top-scoring with 24 runs . The Rajasthan side though hit a few roadblocks when Ajinkya Rahane was caught behind off Mitchell Starc for 23 , Sanju Samson was run out for 2 and Mitchell Starc struck his second blow to send Karun Nair back for 8 . Leg-spinner Yuzvendra Chahal also picked up a consolation wicket when Watson was caught at cover while trying to finish the game . It was finally left-hander Abhishek Nayar who hit the winning runs to give Rajasthan their second win in the tournament after four games . Earlier a star-studded Bangalore batting line-up collapsed like a pack of cards as they were shot out for their lowest total in the Twenty20 league . The RCB innings was off to a disastrous start after their openers returned to the dug out in the very first over and the agony ended for them in the 15th over . Medium-pacer Stuart Binny got Yogesh Takawale caught behind for nought and the in-form Parthiv Patel followed him soon after being run out for 1 . Australian pacer Kane Richardson then replaced Binny in the third over to choke the RCB top-order after picking up the prized wickets of Yuvraj Singh ( 3 ) and AB de Villiers ( 0 ) on consecutive deliveries. The hat-trick ball was foiled by Sachin Rana . Rana , who plays for Haryana in Ranji trophy , though could n't last long after he was cleaned up by Watson for 3 . The rot continued after leg-spinner Tambe got Albie Morkel for 7. Albie , who had been patient till now , went after a flighted delivery to lob a simple catch to Steven Smith at mid-off . Skipper Virat Kohli ( 21 ) tried his best to resist the fall but the attacking batsman gave away a sitter to Tim Southee at mid-off off Tambe . On any other day it would have been four but Kohli seemed to have been bitten by the same bug that hit the rest of his mates . The procession continued as Starc was caught by Binny off Rajat Bhatia after a fighting 18. Tambe then completed the formalities to wipe off the tail . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Shane Watson,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Rajasthan Royals,Pravin Tambe,IPL Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
