The match also marks a return for Dhawan to hometown Delhi. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : Sunrisers Hyderabad captain Shikhar Dhawan won the toss and chose to bowl against Delhi Daredevils in their IPL match at the Ferozeshah Kotla in New Delhi on Saturday . Daredevils made three changes to their side with leg-spinner Imran Tahir coming in place of Wayne Parnell while fast bowler Rahul Shukla replaces out of sorts left-arm spinner Shahbaz Nadeem . Test specialist Murali Vijay has also been dropped from the playing XI to make way for Mayank Agarwal . Delhi are still languishing at the bottom of the table and stare at a must-win situation in every game to salvage their season . Delhi have never won against this Sunrisers team in three attempts over the past two seasons , the latest loss coming in Dubai a few days earlier when DD bowlers failed to reign in Warner and Finch and took only one wicket before the batsmen fell agonizingly short in the chase to lose by 4 runs . Delhi skipper Kevin Pietersen is struggling for form after recovering from a finger injury and averages 15.50 with a strike rate below 100 . Having overspent on Dinesh Karthik and over-estimated Quinton de Kock 's ability to single-handedly turn games , they have had to fall back on JP Duminy and Kedhar Jadhav , who are usually late middle-order regulars but may now have to firm the strike more given the problems at the top . The match also marks a return for Dhawan to hometown Delhi , and he will fancy his chances on familiar territory given the remarkable turnaround win engineered by his formidable bowling unit in the last game against Rajasthan Royals . While Delhi 's cricket fans have an opportunity to watch Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Dale Steyn in action , the home team seems resigned to another failed season . Teams : Delhi Daredevils : Quinton de Kock , Mayank Agarwal , Kevin Pietersen ( captain ) , Dinesh Karthik ( wk ) , JP Duminy , LR Shukla , Kedar Jadhav , Mohammed Shami , Imran Tahir , Jaydev Unadkat , Rahul Shukla Sunrisers Hyderabad : Shikhar Dhawan ( captain ) , Aaron Finch , Lokesh Rahul , Naman Ojha ( captain ) , David Warner , Moises Henriques , Irfan Pathan , Karn Sharma , Dale Steyn , Amit Mishra , Bhuvneshwar Kumar . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunrisers Hyderabad,Shikhar Dhawan,Kevin Pietersen,Imran Tahir,Dinesh Karthik Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
