A team that boasts of one of the best attacks in the IPL after the 2014 auction , it was batting alone that had let the Sunrisers Hyderabad down so far. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED ABU DHABI : Just the way a loss can bring down a team 's morale badly , a win can do wonders to the confidence. That 's precisely what happened to Sunrisers Hyderabad in Dubai on Friday . The win over Delhi Daredevils gave IPL 's year-old team their first win this season and brought to light the strength of their overall combination that has been overshadowed by losses until now . A team that boasts of one of the best attacks in the IPL after the 2014 auction , it was batting alone that had let the Sunrisers down so far. But Aaron Finch and David Warner getting together in a 128-run partnership the other day showed what they can be capable of if these big-hitters were to consistently get going . They 're up against the Chennai Super Kings next , the team is on a roll once again , true to the reputation they 've made for themselves. Sunday 's clash will require the Sunrisers to take their previous performance a notch higher if they 've got to fight MS Dhoni 's men . Fortunately for them , their top three batsmen have got going in time , especially finding feet in a game just before the Super Kings were due to face them . While Dhawan & Co. can carry this confidence forward , the bulk of the work will lie with the bowlers - Dale Steyn , Amit Mishra , Darren Sammy and the rest who form the attack - to keep the Kings in check . Brendon McCullum and Dwayne Smith have been busy bulldozing oppositions so far. Suresh Raina at No. 3 followed by Faf du Plessis , Dhoni , Mithun Manhas and Ravindra Jadeja . For any attack , even if as impressive as the one that Sunrisers have at their disposal , keeping this kind of a line-up from scoring briskly will be a tough task . Mishra , who seems to be in the best of form , is a scalp away from 100 wickets. That should motivate him. If Sunrisers pull it off , it 'll not only halt the CSK juggernaut that teams are getting wary of but give the team immense confidence going further into the tournament . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunrisers Hyderabad,David Warner,Darren Sammy,Dale Steyn,Chennai Super Kings Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
