IPL chiefs differ on final venue change Sumit Mukherjee Sumit Mukherjee,TNN | May 23 , 2014 , 11.09 AM IST Sunil Gavaskar and Ranjib Biswal contradicted each other on the issue , laying bare the differences within the GC. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED KOLKATA : The IPL Governing Council ( GC ) , which met on Thursday , tied itself in knots while trying to explain the rationale behind moving the June 1 final of the high-profile T20 league from Mumbai 's Wankhede Stadium to Bangalore 's Chinnaswamy Stadium . Addressing the media after the meeting , Sunil Gavaskar , the Supreme Court-appointed BCCI president ( IPL ) , and Ranjib Biswal , IPL chairman , contradicted each other on the issue , laying bare the differences within the GC . While Gavaskar took pains to explain that the GC had decided to keep the final in Bangalore after the Mumbai Cricket Association ( MCA ) failed to get back to them on the issue of bursting firecrackers after the final , Biswal maintained that the GC had redrawn the schedule of playoff matches and the final in order to ensure a more equitable distribution of 'marquee ' matches across major venues . " We revisited our decision to move the final out of Mumbai to Bangalore after MCA president Sharad Pawar spoke to me and Biswal. The MCA had agreed to address most of the concerns raised by the GC members and we had given them until Saturday ( May 17 ) to get back to us with regard to permission for bursting of firecrackers after 10pm in Mumbai as the closing ceremony would have been incomplete without it. With nothing forthcoming from the MCA , GC members held a teleconference ( on Saturday evening ) and decided to retain Bangalore as the venue for the final , " Gavaskar explained . However , when asked whether the firecrackers issue was the sole factor behind Mumbai losing the final , Biswal stepped in and said , " It was not the only reason , the GC felt we should take cricket to different venues. That is why Kolkata got a playoff match while Mumbai will be hosting two. We wanted to spread the matches to four different venues. There were no conditions or riders. We had just pointed out their ( MCA 's ) shortcomings. " Asked why the GC had broken its own convention of allotting a qualifier and the final to the defending champions ' home venue , Biswal said , " It is the GC 's prerogative to allot these matches. We reallocated them to make sure that other centres too got to host big matches. That is why Kolkata was given a Qualifier. " IPL CEO Sundar Raman pointed out that with the first 20 matches in IPL 7 being held in the UAE , many centres lost out a number of matches . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunil Gavaskar,Ranjib Biswal,MCA,IPL governing council,BCCI Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
