It 's good to play under Dhoni , says Hilfenhaus PTI | Apr 26 , 2014 , 10.41 AM IST READ MORE Mohit Sharma | Mahendra Singh Dhoni | Indian Premier League | Chennai Super Kings | Ben Hilfenhaus RELATED DUBAI : Chennai Super Kings ' Australian recruit Ben Hilfenhaus is enjoying playing under Mahendra Singh Dhoni and says the India captain has n't changed since the time he has joined the yellow brigade . " He has not changed at least since the time I have been around. He is good to play under and there are exciting times ahead , " Hilfenhaus said . The Aussie took the important wickets of Mike Hussey and Rohit Sharma in CSK 's seven-wicket win over Mumbai Indians in the Indian Premier League last night . It was a dominant performance by CSK who made it three wins in a row after a blip in the first match of the tournament . " Yes definitely , it was a great performance from the boys tonight. It is nice to be on a roll in T20 cricket and it is good to be on that roll at the moment. Hopefully we can just continue that for the rest of the tournament , " Hilfenhaus said . Asked how good he is feeling about his bowling , he said , " I have not been bad at times I would say. There are certain things that I feel I need to improve at. It gets tough to spend time in the nets when you have such a hectic schedule but hopefully we can keep improving in those couple of days between matches. " Talking about his dismissal of former Australian teammate Hussey , Hilfenhaus said , " He is such a dangerous player and to pick him cheaply like we did set the ball rolling for us. It is nice to starve him for runs. I just tried to stay away from his strengths and got lucky at the end of the day. " The 31-year-old has been guiding the CSK pace attack that includes young bowlers like Ishwar Pandey and Mohit Sharma . " I am definitely there to help them out and help them grow as fast bowlers. They both are developing really well and they have stood up in the first initial days of the tournament and done well. These are exciting times for Chennai Super Kings. " Hilfenhaus said he is also learning in the process while helping the youngsters . " In this game you are always learning. I am still trying to learn things and you never know everything about this game. Sometimes by actually thinking about their game or my game I learn in the process. Hopefully I continue to keep improving and go from there. " Talking further about his bowling , Hilfenhaus said , " I have always tried to be as economical as possible. You bowl well and go for a few some days and you bowl poorly and do n't go for as many. The idea is to keep controlling every ball you bowl and hope that you bowl a dot. " http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Mohit Sharma,Mahendra Singh Dhoni,Indian Premier League,Chennai Super Kings,Ben Hilfenhaus Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
