READ MORE Joe Dawes | Sandeep Sharma | Kings XI Punjab | Glenn Maxwell | David Miller RELATED BANGALORE : Kings XI Punjab bowling coach Joe Dawes said his team is aiming to finish at the top of the points table so that it could get two shots to make the finals of the ongoing Indian Premier League . Finishing in the top two spots provide the first teams two chances of getting into the final. A unique eliminator concept means that the top two teams first play each other , with the winner making the final , and the loser then playing the winner of the other playoff to decide the second finalist . " Yah , we are thinking of one more ( win ) that will get us into the playoffs. We want to finish first to give ourselves two cracks before the finals. We have been winning and we want to continue that , " he told reporters on Saturday . Heaping praise on Virender Sehwag , Glenn Maxwell and David Miller , Dawes said it was because of batsmen like these that Punjab were winning so many matches . " When guys like Maxi , David Miller and Virender Sehwag , are hitting around the total is coming. We have got three-four blokes who are absolutely belting at the moment and we are cashing on them what we can , " he said . Dawes said Sandeep Sharma 's key to success is his ability to swing the ball . " He is swinging it. The kid has done really well. He is 20 years of age and is amazing how he thinks about the game. His preparation is professional and is pleasure to work with him , " he said . Asked whether Australian Shaun Marsh will get a chance to play in this IPL , Dawes said , " Why do you think we should give him a game ? Who should be dropped ? " He , however , insisted that Marsh has taken his omission sportingly . " Shaun has taken it really well. That is the good thing about this unit. They are not worried about who is playing or who is going in front of him. The group looks to be really enjoying themselves and enjoying each others company , " he said . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Joe Dawes,Sandeep Sharma,Kings XI Punjab,Glenn Maxwell,David Miller Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
