Kings XI Punjab not quite at 'home ' in Cuttack Hindol Basu Hindol Basu,TNN | May 12 , 2014 , 09.10 AM IST There were some jeers for Kings XI players when they fielded at the Barabati stadium. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED CHANDIGARH : Cuttack 's Barabati stadium on Sunday bore a look that might not please the owners of Kings XI Punjab. Instead of red , it was a sea of purple . It was supposed to be a 'home ' game for KXIP against the Kolkata Knight Riders. But , the crowd support decisively veered towards KKR . KKR batsmen Gautam Gambhir and Robin Uthappa were loudly cheered as they put on a match-winning opening stand. If that was not enough , there were some jeers for Kings XI players when they fielded . This " not-so-homely " experience leads one to ask : why did the IPL governing council allocate just three matches to the PCA stadium in Mohali , Kings XI 's actual home ground ? That too when the state association wanted to host these two games at the PCA stadium . " It is unfortunate that PCA stadium will witness only three matches this IPL. If Dharamsala ( which has been hosting some KXIP home matches for the last few years ) was not ready this year , the IPL governing council should have scheduled all the matches at the PCA stadium. It 's a big loss to our many supporters who come to the stadium every year to watch their favourite stars , " PCA joint secretary GS Walia told TOI on Sunday . " The only problem was that the IPL Governing Council did n't receive the go-ahead from the state police for matches before May 16. A lot of other states had similar reservations that 's why the matches were moved to Cuttack. " Even before the IPL 7 itinerary was finalised , KXIP promoters had made it clear that Cuttack was not their preferred venue for home matches. One of the co-owners , Preity Zinta also mentioned in an interview to the host broadcaster that the team was missing Dharamsala this time . " The stadium in Dharamsala was like a second home for us. The entire team is missing playing there , " Preity had said . The Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association has alleged that lack of security assurance from the Virbhadra Singh-led state government had led to Dharamsala losing out on its share of games . " Despite us writing to the relevant police authorities twice and a HPCA representative meeting them in person regarding security cover , they just did n't bother to respond , " said Vishal Marwaha , secretary of HPCA . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Preity zinta,Kings XI Punjab,Gautam Gambhir,Dharamsala,Cuttack Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
