Kings XI Punjab seal fifth win in a row K Shriniwas Rao K Shriniwas Rao,TNN | Apr 29 , 2014 , 09.17 AM IST Yuvraj Singh and George Bailey shake hands after their IPL match in Dubai. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED DUBAI : When Kings XI Punjab began their IPL 7 stint in the UAE , it was the batsmen who led from the front , setting up three comprehensive wins and allowing bowlers to take their time and warm-up for a more testing day . Their bowlers are now busy putting the pressure back on the batsmen , coming up with spells that match up to some of Glenn Maxwell or David Miller 's firecracker innings . The bowlers took centrestage on Monday as Kings romped home to their fifth straight win. Chasing 125 for victory against the Royal Challengers Bangalore , the Kings XI batsmen made a bit of a mess of an easy target before getting there with five wickets to spare . Miller and Virender Sehwag 's contributions with the bat eventually saw them through after a spate of middle-order wickets had put them under pressure . Earlier in the evening , when RCB lost the toss and were put in to bat first , a huge number of RCB followers were expecting the mighty batting line-up to finally serve a treat . With Gayle returning to the side , fireworks were expected and the Jamaican did begin on the right note - two mistimed boundaries receiving a huge cheer from the fans. The lefthander then hit two huge sixes and that is when the stadium got into the Gayle-mode , expecting more fireworks . The early momentum , however , did not last long as Gayle ran down the wicket to hit Sandeep Sharma out of the ropes but exposed his stumps to the bowler . Following Gayle 's departure , RCB lost the next three wickets quickly , skipper Virat Kohli too falling to Sharma , LBW for four runs . Yuvraj Singh , batting at No. 6 , behind AB de Villiers , was the only batsman to go past 30 runs , while the rest of the line-up barely chipped in. RCB eventually limped their way to 125 and it looked like an easy chase was on cards for Kings XI . Sharma deserved a special mention for an excellent spell he bowled early on. In doing so , he picked the three important wickets of Gayle , Kohli and Parthiv Patel . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Yuvraj Singh,Virat Kohli,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Kings XI Punjab,Glenn Maxwell Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
