Kohli fires as RCB score 160 for six against Sunrisers PTI | May 20 , 2014 , 06.14 PM IST Virat Kohli struck his first half century of the IPL 7 with a free-stroking 67 off 41 balls. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED HYDERABAD : Skipper Virat Kohli was back in form at the nick of time as Royal Challengers Bangalore scored a respectable 160 for six against Sunrisers Hyderabad on a difficult track in an IPL encounter on Tuesday . Kohli struck his first half century of the seventh edition with a free-stroking 67 off 41 balls studded with four boundaries and as many sixes. AB de Villiers ( 29 , 17 balls ) and Yuvraj Singh ( 21 ) made small contributions . It was largely due to Kohli 's contribution that RCB scored 112 runs in the back 10 having crawled to 48 for two in the first 10 overs . 'Purple Cap ' holder Bhuvneshwar Kumar again was the prime performer for the Sunrisers with two for 27 in four overs. Pervez Rasool , playing his first game of the tournament replacing Amit Mishra , also had more than a decent outing with figures of one for 26 . The first half certainly belonged to Kohli , who came early after Parthiv Patel was caught plumb in-front by Bhuvneshwar. He took a few balls to settle down but then played some signature shots through the off-side . Out of his four sixes , two were hit off one over from Karn Sharma. Kohli charged down the track and hit him over straight boundary for a six while the other one was an inside out over extra cover for the second six. The other two sixes came off Darren Sammy and Irfan Pathan . The two significant partnership that Kohli was involved were 57 for the third wicket with Yuvraj and more importantly 61 in only 5.1 overs with De Villiers . Kohli 's highest score this season till the current match was 35. He got to his 50 off 34 balls. He was finally out in the 18th over trying to hit Irfan Pathan out of the ground and was caught by Dale Steyn . De Villiers also followed suit but Sachin Rana ( 12 no ) hit a couple of boundaries to take the score to 160 . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virat Kohli,Sunrisers Hyderabad,Royal Challengers Bangalore,IPL 7,AB de Villiers Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
