Kolkata Knight Riders face inconsistent Sunrisers Hyderabad Amitava Das Gupta Amitava Das Gupta,TNN | May 24 , 2014 , 11.03 AM IST It 's the timing of their all-conquering run which makes KKR 's feat of six wins stand out. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED KOLKATA : It 's got to be the most remarkable turnaround in the tournament 's history . For a team that was headed for the exit door halfway through IPL 7 's league phase , after losing five of their seven matches , Kolkata Knight Riders have not only breezed into the play-off stage but are actually pushing for a top-two finish going into their final game , against Sunrisers Hyderabad at the Eden . Six wins on the trot is not the hottest streak in the league , but it 's the timing of their all-conquering run which makes KKR 's feat stand out . A perfect seven-on-seven in the second phase , with a convincing win on Saturday night , will take their tally to 18 points and give them a shot at the second spot . Remember , No. 1 plays No. 2 for a berth in the final in Qualifier 1 at the Eden on Tuesday , and the losers get a second chance three days later in Mumbai . Given Sunrisers Hyderabad 's erratic form , KKR will surely fancy their chances on Saturday . Having assembled arguably the most balanced outfit at the players ' auction in February , the Sunrisers ( 12 points from 13 matches ) have grossly under performed in IPL 7 . And none embodies their problems better than Dale Steyn . For long the world 's most fearsome pacer , the South African has been an easy target in the death overs time and again . Even as Bhuvneshwar Kumar ( 20 wickets , economy rate 6.53 ) has delivered game after game , Steyn has struggled to pick up wickets ( 11 in 13 matches ) and keep things tight ( economy rate 7.46 ) when it matters . Hyderabad 's batting , on the other hand , has been too David Warner-centric. By far their most prolific batsman ( 524 runs , 6 fifties , strike rate 140.48 ) , the muscular southpaw was being wasted down the order at No. 4 as the team put its faith on Shikhar Dhawan ( strike rate 120.83 ) and Aaron Finch ( strike rate 117.49 ) as the opening pair . It 's only in the last two games that the ` mistake ' has been rectified , giving Warner the chance to blossom fully at the top of the order . Team Hyderabad ( read : Warner ) gave MS Dhoni 's Super Kings a real hiding on Thursday night to cling on to their slender play-off hopes . But the Sunrisers ' fate was never going to be in their own hands once they lost three out of four home ties in Hyderabad . In contrast , KKR have won both their home matches and are looking good to finish the league phase strongly at Eden . They have n't put a foot wrong since committing harakiri against Rajasthan Royals ( failed to chase down 171 after being 121 without loss ) , as their victory margins -by 30 runs , 8 wickets , 7 wickets , 6 wickets , 9 wickets and 8 wickets -amply reflect . The fact that KKR players held both the Orange Cap ( Robin Uthappa ) and Purple Cap ( Sunil Narine ) after Thursday 's action is a clear indication that both their batting and bowling units have been functioning well . Bowling has traditionally been the Knights ' strength , more so since Narine joined their ranks three seasons back . So it 's no surprise to find the Caribbean spinner top the charts jointly with Bhuvneshwar ( 20 wickets each ) and shoulder the KKR attack with useful support from Shakib Al Hasan ( 9 wickets , ER 6.31 ) , Piyush Chawla ( 11 wickets ) and Morne Morkel ( 9 wickets ) . But the real game-changer has been Uthappa. His consistency ( 572 runs @ 47.66 ) and strike rate ( 137.50 ) have given the KKR batting a new dimension . Jacques Kallis , the man he replaced as Gautam Gambhir 's opening partner , may be just as hungry for runs but ca n't match the rate at which Uthappa scores . With Gambhir finding his touch after five nightmarish games and Bangladesh all-rounder Shakib showing his utility as a hard-hitting batsman , KKR 's batting is looking stronger than in the past few seasons . Not for nothing will the Knights start as clear favourites on Saturday. Unless Sunrisers are blessed with another Warner special. Or Steyn produces his best spell of the tournament . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunrisers Hyderabad,Sunil Narine,Robin Uthappa,Kolkata Knight Riders,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
