Kolkata Knight Riders look to push for playoff berth against Chennai Super Kings Archiman Bhaduri Archiman Bhaduri,TNN | May 20 , 2014 , 11.27 AM IST KKR will have to be on guard to avoid a morale-hurting start to their home run. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED KOLKATA : Kolkata Knight Riders could n't have timed their 'homecoming ' better . Having played the first phase of IPL 7 in the UAE and then covered the length and breadth of the country once the tournament returned to India , KKR will finally get to play their first match at Eden Gardens on Tuesday when they face the formidable Chennai Super Kings . With CSK and Kings XI Punjab already assured of playoff berths , and Rajasthan s Royals almost there , there is practically just one slot up for grabs . Sunday 's win over Sunrisers Hyderabad , though , seems to have put KKR ( 12 points from 11 games ) in pole position in the race for that solitary berth . Royal Challengers Bangalore ( 10 points e from 11 matches ) and Sunrisers Hyderabad ( 8 from 11 ) have a lot of work to do if they are to pip KKR. Interestingly , their last two ties are against chief rivals RCB and SRH , respectively . In a way , KKR have a straightforward job at hand - just win the remaining three games to kill RCB and SRH 's chances and walk into the playoffs . They will thus relish playing their last three games at home , as the slow and low Eden Gardens track e will suit their three-pronged spin attack of Sunil Narine , Shakib Al-Hasan and Piyush Chawla perfectly . The Eden wicket , though , will also be to CSK 's liking as they have Ravichandran Ashwin , West Indian Samuel Badree , Ravindra Jadeja and Suresh Raina to man the spin department . And though the two-time IPL champions have qualified for the last four , the Mahendra Singh Dhoni-led side will go out all guns blazing to ensure a top-two spot . Due to the extreme heat wave here , the pitch has been kept under cover after watering , which will slow down the surface further. A low-scoring match is on the cards and KKR will have to be on guard to avoid a morale-hurting start to their home run . New Zealand opener Brendon McCullum will play his last league match for CSK before flying home to be with his wife for the birth of their child . However , the inclusion of David Hussey , in place of the injured Dwayne Bravo , has given skipper MS Dhoni more options. Hussey can bat anywhere in the order , and although his last over on Sunday may have backfired for CSK , the former KKR player can be handy with his part-time off-break on the Eden surface . With Eden set to host Qualifier 1 between the No 1 and 2 teams in the league phase on May 27 , and CSK very much in contention for a top-two finish , they can get some good practice at this venue . KKR have won four matches on the trot , thanks to Gautam Gambhir 's return to form . The skipper , along with Robin Uthappa - the top run-getter among Indian players in IPL7 - have done half the job for the side by providing good starts in last few matches . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Robin Uthappa,MS Dhoni,Kolkata Knight Riders,Gautam Gambhir,Chennai Super Kings Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
