READ MORE Wayne Parnell | Morne Morkel | Kevin Pietersen | Gary Kirsten | Delhi Daredevils RELATED SHARJAH : Delhi Daredevils pacer Wayne Parnell is all praise for his skipper Kevin Pietersen , saying that the Englishman 's calmness has rubbed off on his teammates in their IPL campaign so far . " Pietersen brings his own energy to the team and his calmness rubs off on the other players. If you have a calm captain , you have a calm team as well , " Parnell said after his side 's six-wicket win over Mumbai Indians . " Having confidence helps you and having the backing of the support staff and the captain is massive for any cricketer. Everyone wants to be backed by the leaders , and I feel I have that backing , " he said . Parnell ( 1/17 ) played a big role in Delhi restricting Mumbai to a modest 125 for 6 in their IPL match yesterday , a total which they overhauled in 18.5 overs. The left-arm pacer , however , insisted that it 's all about teamwork . " I was actually speaking to one of the owners the other day. He mentioned to me that the Delhi Daredevils play for the badge and not for themselves. As a collective bowling unit , we share information. The constant sharing of information between us helps us perform well as a unit , " he said . With three losses and two wins , Delhi are at the lower half of the IPL table but Parnell said that the team morale was still high after the win over Mumbai . " It is nice to get some momentum going in to India. I feel we have been playing really good cricket over the past few games. Most of our losses in the tournament have been close , barring the game against Chennai Super Kings where we were outplayed , " he was quoted as saying by IPL official website . Parnell , 24 , has been in and out of the Proteas side since his debut in January 2009 , but the lanky bowler insists that he has matured with time . " Over the last 12 to 16 months , after being out of the national team , I went back to domestic cricket and put up some decent performances to get back into the South African side. I have also learnt to wait for my chances and do well for the team when I do get a chance . " You have the likes of Morne Morkel and Dale Steyn in the pace attack for South Africa , and for me as a young guy , I have to hang in there and perform well when I am required , " Parnell said . Twenty20 cricket is all about innovation and Parnell also believes that adapting to the situation was the need of the shorter format . " I was speaking to Gary Kirsten earlier regarding the pace I have to bowl. Normally , I bowl close to 130-140 kph , but today on this surface , it was crucial to take the pace off the ball rather than getting more pace on the ball , " he said . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Wayne Parnell,Morne Morkel,Kevin Pietersen,Gary Kirsten,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
