Kumble has been of great help , says Anderson PTI | Apr 26 , 2014 , 10.35 AM IST READ MORE Corey Anderson | Mumbai Indians | Indian Premier League | Chennai Super Kings | Anil Kumble RELATED DUBAI : New Zealand 's batting sensation Corey Anderson , who is turning out for Mumbai Indians in the ongoing Indian Premier League , has thanked the team 's chief mentor Anil Kumble for providing him tips about facing spin bowling . " He has been of great help. Facing quality spinners in the competition is of massive help. I am playing some of the best spinners in the world. I also face quality spinners in the nets and this will definitely help me to play spin bowling better in the matches to come , " Anderson said . It has n't been the best of starts for MI with the team suffering its third straight defeats , at the hands of Chennai Super Kings , last night . " It is a slow start for the team , we had a bit of a break and we expected things to change a little bit but we did not score enough runs tonight. We did n't have a good big innings , but it is no excuse . " We got to work harder and we got to come out fighting harder again. We just have to come out and win a couple of games and I am sure we will get going from there . Mumbai Indians ' total of 141 was easily chased down by CSK . After failures in the first two games , Anderson managed a 31-ball 39 against CSK . " I spent a lot more time in the nets and a lot more time with the coaches and was trying to get a grasp on playing in these conditions. It takes time for anyone to sort of get used to the conditions . " I am trying to find out my rhythm and time in the middle which always helps. Tonight unfortunately I got out when I was just beginning to get going. On another day it might have come off and hopefully it will soon. " Talking about Zaheer Khan 's presence in the side , Anderson , who is also a left-arm fast medium bowler , said , " I have spoken to Zak a few times and he is a master in what he does. He is so good to have in the team and him specially being a left-armer obviously helps . " At the moment my bowling is not coming out quite like I would want to but I guess it is just the beginning. This is T20 cricket and you have bad days and you have good days. I will keep working on it and I will just chip in where I have to. " Anderson , who shot to prominence by scoring the fastest ODI hundred , says he would be happy to replicate the feat in T20 as well . " I am not too sure about that one. I have told a lot of people that you do n't expect to do certain things , things just happen. I am not expecting to do that here or do it faster. It will be awesome if I could. If I can pull myself to win matches for Mumbai Indians then I am doing my job. " http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Corey Anderson,Mumbai Indians,Indian Premier League,Chennai Super Kings,Anil Kumble Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
