Lasith Malinga makes a quiet exit Archiman Bhaduri Archiman Bhaduri,TNN | May 16 , 2014 , 09.12 AM IST Malinga took 16 wickets in 10 matches in this edition of the IPL. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED CUTTACK : Having played his last match for Mumbai Indians this season on Wednesday evening , Lasith Malinga quietly checked out of town early on Thursday morning to join the Sri Lankan team on the tour of England . It was anything but a memorable farewell for ` Slinga ' Malinga as his team went down tamely by six wickets to Kolkata Knight Riders at the Barabati Stadium , their seventh defeat in 10 matches all but pushing the champions out of contention for a play-off berth in IPL 7 . " I will be flying to London from Delhi , " Malinga told TOI as he sat alone in one corner of the Biju Patnaik International Airport , waiting for the boarding announcement of his flight to Delhi. of his flight to Delhi . Malinga took 16 wickets in 10 matches , but when asked if he was happy with his own performance , the Lankan pacer vigorously shook his head. " No no , " he said. On the team 's below-par performance , Malinga just smiled and said : " It 's disappointing. " There were no fans to seek his autograph or ask for a photo to be clicked , and Malinga was busy checking his Facebook . Asked about the upcoming series in England , Malinga said he had n't thought about it yet. " But being in a T20 mode right now , the fact that we 'll play a T20 International first ( on May 20 at the Oval ) will suit me , " he said . John Wright confessed after Wednesday 's match that the team will miss Malinga. To have an outside chance of advancing to the play-off stage , Mumbai Indians will have to win their remaining four matches and then hope some other results favour them . " We 've really struggled with our bowling this season. We have n't played well. It 's not going to be easy without Malinga. But we just have to prepare and do well , " Wright said . The New Zealander agreed that it was getting increasingly tougher with every loss. " The next few matches will be tougher. It 's disappointing but we have to regroup quickly . " The former India coach felt the failure of the openers has compounded the problems . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Mumbai Indians,Lasith Malinga,Kolkata Knight Riders,John Wright,IPL Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
