Maxwell and Miller bowl Preity Zinta over Hindol Basu Hindol Basu,TNN | Apr 28 , 2014 , 10.01 AM IST READ MORE Sanjay Bangar | Preity zinta | Kings XI Punjab | Glenn Maxwell | David Miller RELATED CHANDIGARH : Preity Zinta 's team is sitting pretty. Four wins out of four , three of them against last year 's semifinalists ( Chennai Super Kings , Rajasthan Royals , Sunrisers Hyderabad ) and the other versus 2012 champions Kolkata Knight Riders , have ensured Kings XI Punjab their best start to the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) in seven years and marked them as one of the favourites to bag the title this season . Hiring Sanjay Bangar , buying the right set of players at the auction , investing in young domestic talent and providing the team with the best support staff have been some of the better things that Punjab have accomplished diligently this year. The team 's co-owner Preity Zinta just ca n't hide her joy now . " Fingers crossed. I 'm looking forward to a good tournament , " she said. " The way we have started , we can go all the way. ( Glenn ) Maxwell and ( David ) Miller have been outstanding for us and going forward they will be crucial , but overall it has been a team effort , " Preity added . Pointing out how 2014 has been the first time that Kings XI Punjab have started an IPL season on a refreshing note , the dimple-cheeked owner of the franchisee gave all the credit to Sanjay Bangar . " Getting him ( Bangar ) on board was the best thing that could happen to us. He is a man of very few words but his contribution has been immense. All the credit to him. He 's a very humble man and the players like him very much , " Preity said . " All the stakeholders in Kings XI Punjab , be it the team owners , players , coaches and support staff , sponsors , fans all have stood by us through good and bad times and to whatever extent we succeed , it 's for all of them to feel good about , " the Bollywood star reflected . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sanjay Bangar,Preity zinta,Kings XI Punjab,Glenn Maxwell,David Miller Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
