Miller felt that Mumbai made a big mistake in not retaining an impact player like Maxwell. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED CHANDIGARH : He has hit 17 sixes , slammed 28 boundaries and has scored 279 runs at an average of 93 and has scored those runs at a mind-boggling strike-rate of 215.68. The IPL has been set on fire this year by Aussie big-hitter Glenn Maxwell. Each time he has batted , Maxi ( as he is popularly known ) has dented the confidence of the opposition bowlers . While Kings XI Punjab are reaping the benefits of Maxwell 's explosive abilities , ( three wins out of three ) another team , Mumbai Indians might be ruing the fact that they did n't retain him or use the right to match card for the Aussie during the IPL auctions in February this year ? Ignored by Mumbai , the 25-year-old is justifying every penny Preity Zinta and Co. have spent for him . South African David Miller , who was the star player for Kings XI last season and has been playing a supporting role to Maxwell this year , felt that Mumbai made a big mistake in not retaining an impact player like Maxwell . Talking to TOI from Sharjah , Miller said , " It is a decision ( not retaining Maxwell ) that they ( Mumbai Indians ) had to make. Them leaving out Maxi and subsequently us ( Kings XI Punjab management ) picking him up during the auctions , despite Rajasthan and Delhi making desperate bids , was fortunate for us. Anyway , Maxi is Mumbai 's loss and our gain this year. " Miller himself has run into some good batting form in the initial stages of the tournament. The South African has hit a couple of fifties , including the fastest ever for KXIP in the match against Rajasthan Royals. The southpaw believes batting alongside Maxwell has allowed him to settle in , without thinking too much about the run-rate . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Mumbai Indians,Kings XI Punjab,IPL,Glenn Maxwell,David Miller Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
