READ MORE Mumbai Cricket Association | IPL governing council | BCCI | IPL 7 final | Chinnaswamy Stadium The official said since MCA belongs to the anti N Srinivasan faction which still rules the roost , this decision was intended to get even with some top MCA officials who have openly expressed their displeasure at the Tamil Nadu strongman continuing at the helm . RELATED NEW DELHI : The Mumbai Cricket Association today got a jolt as the IPL Governing Council decided to shift the final of the high-profile event on June 1 from Wankhede Stadium to Bangalore 's Chinnaswamy Stadium . Although the BCCI press release did not specify the reason for shifting the final , a top official said on condition of anonimity that the anti-Srinivasan attitude of some of the MCA office-bearers had played a part in the decision . The official said since MCA belongs to the anti N Srinivasan faction which still rules the roost , this decision was intended to get even with some top MCA officials who have openly expressed their displeasure at the Tamil Nadu strongman continuing at the helm . However , those who attended the GC meeting were aware about the reasons given . " The unofficial reason given is the atrocious quality of the Wankhede Stadium 's Hospitality Box which is very cramped. The BCCI will be having a clutch of high-profile guests from across the globe including senior ministers in the UAE government. That 's one reason why some of the decision makers felt that Wankhede will be inappropriate as a venue , " the official said . The second reason given is " MCA having problems in dealing with Mumbai Police. " " There are always shortage of VVIP Car Parking passes for the BCCI members. A lot of them have complained that they have to walk down a fair distance from the allotted car parking areas , " the official said . When asked whether Wankhede lost due to Srinivasan and MCA being at loggerheads , another senior official said , " All I can say is that the final is shift. You are free to interpret the development " . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Mumbai Cricket Association,IPL governing council,BCCI,IPL 7 final,Chinnaswamy Stadium Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
