Miller 's 66 guides Kings XI Punjab to 198/8 PTI | May 9 , 2014 , 10.18 PM IST Kings XI Punjab 's David Miller plays a shot against Royal Challengers Bangalore during their IPL match at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium in Bangalore. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED BANGALORE : David Miller smashed his way to a 29-ball-66 as Kings XI Punjab 's batting clicked yet again posing a challenging score of 198 for eight against RCB in an IPL encounter on Friday . Miller and Wriddhiman Saha ( 17 ) steadied the innings after KXIP slumped to 116 for four in 11.4 overs as Virender Sehwag and Mandeep Singh gave a rollicking start to the visitors adding 60 runs in 35 balls. Sehwag again scored 30 but more importantly provided the momentum . Glenn Maxwell again blasted his way to 25 off 10 balls before being holed out at the deep mid-wicket fence off Yuzvendra Chahal 's bowling trying to go for his third six. Maxwell also hit a couple of boundaries . One of the finds of this IPL , Chahal was the pick of the bowlers with figures of two for 23 in four overs . Once Miller got set , the South African left-hander scored runs at a brisk pace. He hit eight boundaries and three sixes off only 29 balls before departing in the 17th over of the KXIP innings . Saha also contributed in Punjab 's massive total by supporting Miller as they notched up 54 runs in only 4.5 overs . The RCB wicketkeeper was scalped by Harshal Patel at long-off by AB de Villiers , trying to loft a slower delivery . Thereafter Akshar Patel and Shivam Sharma , who played his first match of the season , went cheaply , scoring two and four respectively . The swashbuckling Sehwag , whose 30 had five boundaries against his name gave a solid start to Punjab by putting on 60 with Mandeep ( 21 ) for the opening stand . Maxwell smacked Yuvraj Singh out of the park for two sixes and a four , thus collecting 19 runs in eighth over of visitor 's innings . As he was looking to take the game away from Bangalore , Maxwell fell prey to Chahal after he was holed out at deep mid-wicket where Mitchell Starc took a well-judged catch just a few inches from the ropes . It was left to Miller and Bailey , who had a decent unbeaten 40 in the previous match against Chennai , to repair the innings as Punjab slumped to 93 for three in the ninth over . Bailey , who also did not get a long hit in the middle because of the inform top-order batsmen this season , was out poking at the away-going ball off Morkel for one after playing seven balls . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virender Sehwag,Kings XI Punjab,Glenn Maxwell,David Miller,Royal Challengers Bangalore Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
