Morne Morkel reports 'suspicious approach ' to ACSU K Shriniwas Rao K Shriniwas Rao,TNN | Apr 25 , 2014 , 09.29 AM IST Morkel is representing the Kolkata Knight Riders this season. ( AFP Photo ) RELATED SHARJAH : The Anti-Corruption and Security Unit of the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) is maintaining a hawk-like vigil on the UAE-leg of the tournament going on in Abu Dhabi , Dubai and Sharjah . Early this week , the Ravi Sawani-led team , which also has former investigations officer Niranjan Singh Virk working with them , came across two 'suspicious ' individuals , who were reported for trying to get 'too close ' to cricketers here . South African fast bowler Morne Morkel , it is learnt , alerted ACSU officials after being approached by a 'suspicious ' individual in Dubai . Morkel , uncomfortable in having to deal with the individual and wary about the conversation that was taking place , reported about it to the ACSU team. Morkel is representing the Kolkata Knight Riders this season . The ACSU was also alerted about another incident where a woman was trying to make her way into the hotel in Dubai where the Rajasthan Royals are put. She was also trying to 'get close ' to a couple of cricketers . However , the details of these two incidents that were reported and the exact content of their interactions with the cricketers is not yet known . " The incidents did take place but nobody has specific details of what ensued. The ACSU is handling it , " a source said when asked about the two incidents . When approached for comment , Virk refused to talk about it , saying " some things are confidential and can not be discussed. " Players coming forward and reporting such incidents can only be a positive development as far as the BCCI and the image of the IPL is concerned . Given the IPL 's present crisis , players wearing a no-nonsense attitude when dealing with unknown individuals and reporting them immediately to the concerned officials is something the IPL authorities can only be happy about . A source told TOI on Thursday that both incidents took place " a couple of days ago " and are seriously being looked into . " If players are open about it at all times , it is always a great help , " he added , highlighting how cricketers have been regularly asked to attend code-of-conduct workshops in recent years which is showing results . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Rajasthan Royals,Morne Morkel,Kolkata Knight Riders,IPL,Anti-Corruption and Security Unit Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
