MS Dhoni launches attack on his bowlers PTI | May 31 , 2014 , 11.45 AM IST " I had the belief in my bowling that they will let them score more than 200 runs , " Dhoni said. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : Mahendra Singh Dhoni was sarcastic in his criticism of the Chennai Super Kings bowlers as they were knocked out of the IPL after losing the Qualifier 2 to Kings XI Punjab on Friday . Punjab yet again buried CSK under a mountain of runs , scoring a mammoth 226 for six. It is third time that Punjab scored more than 200 runs against CSK " I had the belief in my bowling that they will let them score more than 200 runs. But we need to give them ( Punjab ) credit , they batted well , " Dhoni said . Dhoni said they surely had a chance to win after Suresh Raina came up with a stunning knock of 87 . " It was something we could have achieved , the reason for that is the way Suresh batted. " " One of the facts is one of our retained players , Dwayne Bravo we lost at the start itself , but we still made the playoffs , we did really well in the tournament , " he added . Virender Sehwag , who tormented the CSK bowlers and set up the win of his side with a 58-ball 122 said Sachin Tendulkar advised him to spend more time at the crease . " I was hitting the ball well throughout. I had a chat with master also , Sachin Tendulkar. He said your hands are going well just a matter of one innings , just stay there and put the conscious effort to stay till the 10-12th over , everything will be alright , " Sehwag said . Asked about determination in his eyes to score , Sehwag said , " I promised someone that there is one innings I have to play , maybe it will come in the playoffs , today is Ness Wadia 's birthday , I told him I will give him the best birthday gift ever. And whenever I got out , my son kept telling me , 'papa you are not scoring runs, ' I told him hold on , there is still time. " Punjab skipper George Bailey praised both Sehwag and Raina for their superb batting efforts . " What an innings from Viru , set the platform , backed up by Miller at the end , almost overshadowed by Suresh 's innings. We have seen two extraordinary innings tonight. " Kings XI Punjab coach Sanjay Bangar said , " To beat a team like CSK thrice in a season is an achievement for us , our team showed great character , especially after CSK scored 100 in six overs. " http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virender Sehwag,Sachin Tendulkar,Mahendra Singh Dhoni,Kings XI Punjab,Chennai Super Kings Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
