Mumbai Indians do the impossible against Rajasthan Royals Gaurav Gupta Gaurav Gupta,TNN | May 26 , 2014 , 09.00 AM IST Mumbai Indians ' Aditya Tare celebrates after hitting the winning runs during their IPL 7 match against Rajasthan Royals in Mumbai. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : It was a miracle. A kind of game you would never have seen in IPL history . With the Mumbai Indians needing a four to qualify for the playoffs , Aditya Tare , having just walked in after Ambati Rayadu 's dismissal , smashed seamer James Faulkner into the deep square-leg stands for a massive six to seal the spot and pull off an incredible win for the defending champs , at the Wankhede on Sunday . The Rajasthan Royals , thus , failed to make the cut despite having put on a formidable 189 for four in 20 overs . While Royals ' mentor and cricket great Rahul Dravid reflected the disgust in the Royals camp , Tare , with his delighted teammates sprinting behind him , ran towards the cheering crowd and took off his shirt as if he had scored a goal in a soccer game . The hero of the mind-boggling feat , for MI , though , was Corey Anderson. Having been dropped for three games after a poor show that hardly justified his Rs 4.5 crore price tag , the Kiwi left-hander came to the party in an unbelievable fashion-blasting an unbeaten 95 ( 44b , 9x4 , 6x6 ) to ensure the hosts razed down the 190-run target in just 14.4 overs . MI needed 189 off 14.3 , but after confusion , it emerged that they could make it if the fourth ball went for a boundary. Having made it here through a last-minute dash , they will now play the Chennai Super Kings in the Eliminator at the Brabourne Stadium on Wednesday . Anderson 's 81-run fifth-wicket stand in 31 balls with Ambati Rayudu , who chipped in with a vital 10-ball 30 , sealed the fabulous chase , though the Royals ' have reason to be disappointed by the horrible show of their bowlers. Faulkner went for 54 in 3.4 overs , while Dhawal Kulkarni gave away 42 in his three . Earlier , the Royals were powered by brilliant knocks from their 'youth brigade ' in Sanju Samson ( 74 , 47b , 7x4 , 3x6 ) , and Karun Nair ( 50 , 27b , 7x4 , 2x6 ) . With skipper Shane Watson struggling thought his 18-ball eight run stay , the Royals started poorly , with only Samson keeping the runs flowing through his glorious strokemaking ability. The 19-year-old , however , found the ideal partner in Nair after Watson 's departure as the young turks added 100 in merely 57 balls to tear MI 's bowling to shreds . Both made merry against the spin trio of Harbhajan Singh , Pragyan Ojha and Shreyas Gopal-sweeping and pulling them for sixes at will. MI 's decision to play three spinners on Sunday night proved to be disastrous . The slow bowlers went for 112 runs in 10 overs Samson took 36 balls for his fifty , while Nair , who provided the real acceleration to the Royals ' , got to his in just 26 . PLAYOFF SCHEDULE May 27 : Qualifier 1 : KKR vs KXIP ( Eden Gardens ) May 28 : Eliminator : MI vs CSK ( Brabourne Stadium ) May 30 : Loser of Qualifier 1 vs Winner of Eliminator ( Wankhede Stadium ) June 1 : Final ( Chinnaswamy Stadium ) . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Rajasthan Royals,Rahul Dravid,Mumbai Indians,Corey Anderson,Aditya Tare Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
