Mumbai Indians , Kolkata Knight Riders desperate for victory Archiman Bhaduri Archiman Bhaduri,TNN | May 14 , 2014 , 12.10 PM IST Mumbai Indians must win all their remaining games to keep themselves in the reckoning. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED CUTTACK : With the Chennai Super Kings snatching a thrilling win over Rajasthan Royals in Ranchi on Tuesday and all but sealing a play-off berth and Delhi Daredevils ( 4 points from 9 games ) virtually out of the race , the fight for the remaining three play-off spots in IPL 7 is now a five-horse race with the Kings XI Punjab ( 14 pts from 9 matches ) and RR ( 14 pts from 10 matches ) holding a distinct advantage . In the given scenario , Wednesday 's clash between the Kolkata Knight Riders and Mumbai Indians here at the Barabati stadium is a crucial one for both sides . By beating Sunrisers Hyderabad on Monday , the Mumbai Indians not only kept themselves in the fray but also did KKR a favour. The loss was a major setback for SRH , who now find themselves pegged on eight points from nine games --- on a par with KKR , who , however , enjoy a slightly superior net run-rate . Both , KKR and MI , will be high on confidence after tasting success in their last outings. KKR , who began with a victory against the reigning champions in the tournament opener in Abu Dhabi , slipped badly after that. But the Knights appear to have picked up the momentum with back-to-back wins over DD & KXIP . The good thing is that KKR 's batting has come good in their last two matches with skipper Gautam Gambhir - who had scores of 0,0,0 and 1 in his first four innings - turning it around in style. Three consecutive half-centuries from the KKR skipper have brought two wins for his team . With one of the most potent attacks in the tournament under his command and the likes of Robin Uthappa , Manish Pandey and Surya Yadav also among runs , Gambhir has every reason to be optimistic about KKR 's chances of sealing a play-off berth . KKR 's only concern is a brittle middle-order and the lack of a finisher down the order where Baroda 'bomber ' Yusuf Pathan ( 59 runs from six innings ) continues to disappoint. It remains to be seen how KKR cope with the situation if they lose early wickets on Wednesday . MI , on the other hand , having lost their first five matches , must win all their remaining games to keep themselves in the reckoning. In spite of the presence of numerous match-winners like Kieron Pollard , Lasith Malinga and skipper Rohit Sharma in their ranks , MI have struggled to get their act together. KKR will , however , be wary of an MI side desperate for victory . KKR would like nothing better than to win this 'home ' match that had to be shifted to Cuttack because of security issues before returning to the Eden Gardens next week for a final flourish . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Rohit Sharma,Mumbai Indians,Lasith Malinga,Kolkata Knight Riders,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
