Mumbai Indians manage 173 after batting collapse PTI | May 23 , 2014 , 06.19 PM IST Michael Hussey of Mumbai Indians bats during an IPL 7 match against Delhi Daredevils in Mumbai. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : A sudden batting collapse saw Mumbai Indians lose eight wickets for only 33 runs as they were all out for 173 in 19.3 overs in their all-important 13th round IPL encounter against the Delhi Daredevils on Friday . Placed comfortably at 140 for two in 14.1 overs , hosts lost wickets in a heap as Mike Hussey 's 56 off 33 balls and last match 's hero Lendl Simmons ' 25-ball-35 were the only significant contributions . Hussey 's innings was laced with two sixes and seven fours as he put on 87 for the opening wicket in 8 overs with Simmons but the home team failed to take full advantage of their electrifying start . Imran Tahir ( 3/37 in four overs ) and Jaydev Unadkat ( 2/24 in 2 overs ) were successful bowlers while three batsmen were run-out . Skipper Rohit Sharma made 30 with four fours in 21 balls but his fall to an ill-advised cut shot that triggered a collapse . Mumbai started in a blazing fashion thanks to Hussey 's aggression after they were put in to bat by rival captain Kevin Pietersen. Hussey , with just one 50-plus score as his best effort this season , tore into the rival bowling attack with pulls and bottom handed shots before he was run out . The retired Australian left hander raced to 41 off just 20 balls in the first power play period of six overs and it contained seven fours and a straight lofted six off left arm slow bowler Shabaz Nadeem and his all-out attack helped Mumbai pile on 65 for no loss during this productive phase . Lendl Simmons , who came into the game after hitting the lone century ( 100 not out ) of the tournament so far against Kings XI Punjab , played second fiddle but then opened out a bit to make 35 when he holed out to deep extra cover off leg spinner Tahir . Hussey fell for 56 for the second time in the season , run out by a throw from point to wicket-keeper Dinesh Karthik , who whipped out the bails just in time to catch the retired Australian short of crease to leave MI at 120 for 2 with eight overs in hand . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Mike Hussey,Rohit Sharma,Kings XI Punjab,IPL,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
