Mumbai Indians seek home comfort against Kings XI Punjab Rohit Bhardwaj Rohit Bhardwaj,TNN | May 3 , 2014 , 11.28 AM IST Mumbai Indians have not played like champions so far. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : It 's a clash between the bottom placed side and table-toppers. While Kings XI Punjab 's domination in the desert has become the talking point , Mumbai Indians have returned winless from their Arabian sojourn and have come back with bruised egos and battered pride . Riding high on quality performances from Glenn Maxwell , David Miller and skipper George Bailey , Kings XI Punjab will look to continue in the same vein when they take on defending champions at the Wankhede on Saturday . On the other hand , Mumbai Indians will try to pick up the pieces and start afresh on home turf , where they recorded 100 % success in the previous edition. Nothing has clicked for the hosts till now . The only silver lining for them is the return to form of big-hitting West Indian all-rounder Kieron Pollard. The Trinidadian , who started off slowly , slammed a 48-ball 78 against Hyderabad , but could n't quite take the team to victory . Skipper Rohit Sharma too has not fired and he has scored just one half century in five games and some of MI 's marquee international stars like Michael Hussey and Corey Anderson have not delivered . What will worry the hosts is the fact that there will be quite a few players in the rival camp who will feel at home at the Wankhede . Maxwell , Australian pacer Mitchell Johnson , left-arm spinner Akshar Patel and all-rounder Rishi Dhawan , were not retained by Mumbai Indians in this year 's auctions and they will have added incentive to play a key role and show MI what they might have missed out on . Maxwell , with his wide array of strokes , has almost single-handedly won the first three games for the Preity Zinta co-owned franchise and will be the one to watch out for on a ground with short boundaries. His battle with Lankan slinger Lasith Malinga should be captivating . Johnson too has come into his own after showing signs of rustiness following a lay-off due to a toe infection post the South Africa tour which forced him out of the ICC World T20 in Bangladesh. The left-arm-seamer , who played a key role in Australia winning the Ashes and the series in South Africa , will look to torment his former franchise with another big performance . Patel has fared well till now with his stump to stump line and a fastish one that has often caught batsmen off-guard. It will be interesting to see how he bowls to someone like Pollard or Rohit , who is comfortable against spin . Dhawan , with his all-round abilities , has been impressive in the field and even picked a few wickets. He too will be eager to show the MI brains trust that leaving him out was n't a wise option . Kings XI also have another trump card in seamer Sandeep Sharma. One of the heroes in India 's victorious Under-19 World Cup campaign in 2012 , Sharma has formed a potent opening pair with Johnson . It remains to be seen if MI bring in West Indian stroke-player Lendl Simmons for Ben Dunk. The side has n't played like champions so far. Can a vociferous Saturday crowd inspire Rohit and Co. ? http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Rohit Sharma,Mumbai Indians,Michael Hussey,Kings XI Punjab,George Bailey Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
