Naman blitz powers Sunrisers Hyderabad to 205/5 PTI | May 14 , 2014 , 06.03 PM IST Wicketkeeper-batsman Naman Ojha continued to increase his boundary count by hitting sixes and fours in every over. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED HYDERABAD : Wicketkeeper-batsman Naman Ojha bludgeoned his way to an unbeaten 36-ball 79 as Sunrisers Hyderabad posted 205 for five against Kings XI Punjab at the Uppal on Wednesday . Put into bat on a sunny afternoon , openers Shikhar Dhawan and Aaron Finch started on a cautious note but soon gained momentum at the end of the powerplays . After a slow but steady start , Dhawan let it rip against Sandeep Sharma in the fifth over , hitting the medium-pacer for 26 runs with four fours and a six . The left-handed batsman started with a boundary off a no ball and then continued with the straight hits for three more boundaries while the six got stuck towards the mid-wicket region as a hapless Sandeep could do little about the blitz . Sandeep was taken off the attack as Punjab skipper George Bailey juggled with his bowling options to check the run-flow . Off-spinner Shivam Sharma provided the first breakthrough by cleaning up Finch for 20 , which ended a 65-run opening stand . The Aussie opener tried to cut a flattish round-the-wicket delivery from the Delhi youngster that rattled his middle stump . While new man Naman found form , walloping Shivam for a six over long-on , Shikhar ( 45 ) was denied his fifty by Rishi Dhawan . The southpaw got a sliding delivery on the leg-side , which he tried whip off his hips only to gift a catch to Shivam at short-fine leg . Joined in by David Warner , wicketkeeper-batsman Naman continued to increase his boundary count by hitting sixes and fours in every over . The hard-hitting Warner soon overtook Naman 's strike-rate -- with fours and sixes galore -- as the duo stitched 81-runs for the third wicket . Warner was run out after a quickfire 44 post a mix-up , but Naman continued in the same vein to post his fifty with a four . A spate of wickets in the end also failed to stop Naman from piling the agony against Punjab . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunrisers Hyderabad,Shikhar Dhawan,Naman Ojha,Kings XI Punjab,David Warner Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
