READ MORE Sunil Narine | Shakib Al Hasan | Kolkata Knight Riders | Indian Premier League | Gautam Gambhir RELATED NEW DELHI : Back playing in familiar Indian surroundings , Kolkata Knight Riders captain Gautam Gambhir is looking at the possibility of winning the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) a second time . He realises that it is not going to be easy for a team that won only three matches of the eight it has played , but he still sees a ray of hope , and to be on course it needs to win the remaining six matches to make the play-off . For that to happen , Gambhir feels his two overseas spinners , Sunil Narine ( West Indies ) and Shakib Al Hasan ( Bangladesh ) , are the key to pulling the Knight Riders back into contention on the turning Indian tracks . " They both are exceptional bowlers and have performed brilliantly , " said Gambhir with an air of confidence . The Knight Riders skipper is confident that Narine and Shakib would still bowl the team to get to the play-offs . " The next few matches are crucial for us , especially now that we are back in Indian conditions , and we are confident that the two potent spinners will get us back into the reckoning by giving us the results we are looking for , " he said . Both Narine and Shakib have been effective this season and if they have not been able to win matches consistently it is not their fault ; the batsmen let the team down . While West Indian off-spinner Narine is among the leading wicket-takers with 12 , Bangladesh 's left-arm spinner Shakib has bottled one end up and claimed six wickets at a miserly rate . Gambhir was all praise for the veteran South African all-rounder Jacques Kallis , who has been impressive with the bat this season , and said he is a good influence on the team both on and off the field . " Jacques is a great cricketer and great person to have in the dressing room. Apart from contributing to the team with the bat and ball , he brings a lot of experience to the dressing room. There is a lot of respect for him and he is a very good influence on the team even off the field , " he said . Gambhir hoped that Wednesday night 's eight-wicket win against Delhi Daredevils , after a streak of three losses , has brought their tottering campaign back on track. Knight Riders are currently fourth in the points table with three wins . " We needed the win ( against Delhi Daredevils ) to stay in the running and everyone contributed to this victory. There are still a lot of matches to be played this season , and we are just focussing on the next game for now and building on from three wins , " said Gambhir . Asked if the inexplicable loss against Rajasthan Royals this week acted as a wake-up call for the team , Gambhir said it was a hard loss to digest. Knight Riders became the first team in the history of the IPL to lose a match after a century opening stand chasing a target . " We have not played to our potential in the last few games. The Royals game hit us hard , though we did take a few positives from the game. We wanted to build on and that 's what we did , " he said . Gambhir said it was difficult to pick any single reason why the team has performed inconsistently this season . " It is difficult to pinpoint specific reasons for our performances , but there were a few areas that we as a team realised we could improve on. We are working hard to get the desired results and are looking forward to get them in the remaining games. " Gambhir , who started poorly with a hat-trick of ducks , regained his touch with scores of 69 , 54 , 6 and 45 in the last four outings and he wants to carry on the form . " Every cricketer goes through a bad stretch and it 's part and parcel of any sport. I always backed myself through it and knew it was just about getting one good knock out in the middle , " he said . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunil Narine,Shakib Al Hasan,Kolkata Knight Riders,Indian Premier League,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
