READ MORE Rohit Sharma | Mumbai Indians | Kevin Pietersen | IPL | Delhi Daredevils RELATED SHARJAH : Mumbai Indians skipper Rohit Sharma found it difficult to explain the consistent failure of his much-vaunted batting line-up stating that " nothing is working " for the team at the moment in the seventh edition of the Indian Premier League . " Batting has been a problem for us. 126 was not the score we were looking forward to. You need to put up a reasonable total for the bowlers to defend. We kept losing wickets at regular intervals. Still some work is needed to be done , " MI skipper did not mince words at the post-match presentation ceremony . One could sense the disappointment in his voice when he was questioned on what needs to be done to get out of the situation . " Our batting needs to improve. We have tried things like changing the batting order. It 's not working out at all. Our batters need to step up. Hopefully , we would win a few matches when we go back to Mumbai , " the stylish batsman said . Delhi Daredevils captain Kevin Pietersen lauded his bowlers for executing their plans to perfection . " It was a 50-50 situation at the toss. Our bowlers were magnificent today. We had a very lengthy meeting yesterday and the boys executed the plans perfectly. Ca n't ask for anything more. M Vijay played an amazing knock , what a player , " the elated skipper commented . Pietersen again reiterated that IPL is more of a " marathon than a sprint " where one needs to get the " momentum and keep doing the right things " . Man of the match Vijay said that he would have ideally liked to finish the game but was happy that the team registered its second win of the tournament . " The wicket was a bit on the slower side but I would have liked to finish the game for my team , " Vijay said . The Tamil Nadu opener is satisfied with his current form. " I have been hitting the ball well at the nets and have been able to carry my good form in domestic cricket into IPL " . He also did not forget to thank the crowd in UAE. " It has been great fun in Dubai as the crowd was amazing , " he said . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Rohit Sharma,Mumbai Indians,Kevin Pietersen,IPL,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
