READ MORE Virat Kohli | Shane Watson | Royal Challengers Bangalore | Rajasthan Royals | IPL RELATED ABU DHABI : A dejected Royal Challengers Bangalore skipper Virat Kohli wants to " forget " the humiliating defeat against Rajasthan Royals even though he conceded that poor application was responsible for being shot out for 70 in an IPL encounter on Saturday . " Looks like we did n't arrive on the field today , " Kohli said at the post-match presentation ceremony . " It was one of those days that we need to forget quickly. The pressure created by Royals was extended over a long time. When you lose wicket every over , it builds up pressure. When I batted , I felt it was a good wicket , but that 's what happens when you lose wickets. " " There were two played ons and a run-out. These unfortunate dismissals cost us. I believe we are a much better batting unit than this. " His opposite number Shane Watson was elated after a comprehensive win having lost badly to Chennai Super Kings in the last game . " It was a great way for us to bounce back after that loss against Chennai. It was good that we could create some chaos in the Bangalore ranks , " Watson said . He was all praise for veteran leggie Pravin Tambe who won the man of the match award for his four-wicket haul . " He ( Tambe ) is very skillful and reads the batsman 's mind very well. He is very cagey bowler. I play him a lot of the nets and is pretty difficult to get away. " Watson 's reading was contrary to what Kohli felt about the strip . " This pitch is slightly drier than the last time we played here and is a bit two paced in nature. Though there is a layer of grass covering , batsmen are still committed to playing early due to the two-paced nature of the track. " Tambe , on his part , felt that his tactic of bowling the googly against left-handers worked as he got left-handers Albie Morkel and Ravi Rampaul with the wrong ones . " I love bowling. The wrong one has worked for me in the nets against left-handers and I thought that I might as well try it out in the match situation. " http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virat Kohli,Shane Watson,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Rajasthan Royals,IPL Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
