READ MORE Royal Challengers Bangalore | Parthiv Patel | Daniel Vettori | Chris Gayle | AB de Villiers RELATED BANGALORE : Royal Challengers Bangalore 's South African recruit AB de Villiers said he was a relieved man for two reasons : that he has been retained by RCB and that he was on the same side as Parthiv Patel. De Villiers was speaking on Saturday at the team 's first public interaction since returning from the UAE leg of the IPL . " Parthiv is the most irritating cricketer in the world. He chats all the time. I 'm glad I 'm playing with him rather than against him , " said de Villiers in jest on the eve of the match against Sunrisers Hyderabad. Asked whether he found the former India wicketkeeper " most irritating " while batting or behind the stumps , de Villiers promptly replied : " At all times. " Parthiv , though , would n't take it lying down. He thanked de Villiers for the compliment and added , " Yuvraj , when in the opposition , used to tell me I was getting under his skin. Now it looks like I was getting to AB too. " De Villiers called Bangalore the best Indian city and said that with Virat leading the team at parties too , it was a real fun place to be in . " I 've been coming to Bangalore from the age of 13. Thus I have lots of friends here. It 's my second home , " said Virat. Recalling that this was his sixth season with RCB , Virat said the atmosphere at the Chinnaswamy Stadium was pure adrenaline when the crowd got behind RCB . " I 've told all my friends and relatives in Delhi that they must experience at least one match here in the supercharged atmosphere. The stadium would be a sea of red and the manner in which the crowd gets behind us is electrifying , " he added . Coach Daniel Vettori said , " That 's why we have fun guys like Virat , Chris Gayle , Yuvraj , AB and others ; players who are winners both on and off the field. " Yuvraj , who said he always wanted to play for RCB , recalled an event that stayed in his mind to this day. " Aaron Finch wanted to bowl in that game in Bangalore. I was reluctant to try him. But he insisted. Dilshan took a single off the first ball. Then Gayle hit him for four sixes in that over. The Bangalore crowd went crazy. Gayle got 175 runs in just 66 balls in that game against Pune Warriors and the crowd 's backing for RCB that night was unforgettable. It 's still ringing in my ears. I too want that kind of frenzied support . " By the way , next over I asked Finch if he wanted to have another bowl. He just scooted , " said Yuvraj . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Royal Challengers Bangalore,Parthiv Patel,Daniel Vettori,Chris Gayle,AB de Villiers Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
