Gayle has scored 1,325 runs in T20 cricket at the Chinnaswamy Stadium. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED BANGALORE : Bangalore is staggering under unusually hot and dry weather conditions. But it 's the Gaylestorm , rather than any hailstorm that the city 's cricket aficionados expect on Sunday when their team Royal Challengers Bangalore take on Sunrisers Hyderabad at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium . " We 've always had fantastic support here. Many of our players , not exposed to the experience , have been told how we ( Virat Kohli , Chris Gayle , AB de Villiers ) cherish it. I 'm sure they too will revel in it , " said skipper Virat who was pleased as punch to be back at the venue he calls his second home. Jamaican giant Gayle , who wields his cricket bat like a club , is capable of mayhem as the Pune Warriors discovered last year . He blasted them for 17 sixes and 13 fours in a whirlwind 175 off just 66 deliveries. From the beginning , when he joined RCB as a replacement for the injured Dirk Nannes , he has taken to the Chinnaswamy Stadium like a duck to water as his impressive tally of 1,325 runs in T20 cricket at this venue proves . It is , therefore , inevitable that his exceptional hitting skills would once again be the cynosure in a team packed with additional power hitters - Yuvraj , Virat and de Villiers. They are RCB 's strength but they 'll be up against a Sunrisers team that boasts of an excellent bowling attack . Dale Steyn , arguably the best fast bowler in world cricket at the moment , is the obvious spearhead. But it is the terrific support that he has received from Bhuvneshwar Kumar and leg-spinner Karn Sharma that has made the visitors such a potent bowling attack . The main legspinner Amit Mishra has not bowled to expectations this season and unless the pitch becomes conducive to spin bowling he 'd struggle on this relatively small outfield . However , it is the batting rather than bowling that is the cause of Hyderabad 's worry. Skipper Shikhar Dhawan has not fired at the top though young KL Rahul has held his end up while allowing stroke players David Warner and Darren Sammy to play their game. Sunrisers ' fortunes rest on the batting form of these four . For RCB , their bowling has been a revelation. Left-arm paceman Mitchell Starc is the obvious leader of the pack in which Varun Aaron has looked pacy and sharp. Legspinner Yuzvendra Chahal has been brilliant and Ashok Dinda pretty reassuring . But the battle this Sunday would be between RCB 's batsmen and Sunrisers ' bowlers . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virat Kohli,Shikhar Dhawan,Dale Steyn,Chris Gayle,AB de Villiers Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
