Rahane 's 72 takes Rajasthan Royals to 152 for five against KKR PTI | Apr 29 , 2014 , 10.21 PM IST Rajasthan Royals 's Ajinkya Rahane and Shane Watson run between the wickets during the IPL 7 match against Kolkata Knight Riders in Abu Dhabi. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED ABU DHABI : Ajinkya Rahane hit a classy 72 as Rajasthan Royals posted a fighting 152 for five against Kolkata Knight Riders in Indian Premier League encounter on Tuesday . While Rahane anchored the innings with proper cricketing shots getting his runs off 59 balls , skipper Watson hit a few lusty blows to score 33 off 24 balls as the 64 runs in 7.3 overs for the third wicket . Rahane 's innings had six boundaries and a six. The manner in which he paced the innings was praiseworthy. When Watson and before that Samson were going after the bowlers , he dropped anchor getting those singles along with odd boundaries as Royals reached 150 because of the Mumbai man . Once he got his half-century , he opened up pulling Vinay Kumar for a six. For KKR , Shakib Al Hasan ( 1/23 ) and Sunil Narine ( 0/28 ) had a decent outing. R Vinay Kumar ( 2/30 ) was the most successful bowler for KKR . Opting to bat , Karun Nair 's ( 1 ) struggle in this format continued as he tried to give his state captain Vinay the charge and saw delivery cutting back into clip the leg bail . Sanju Samson ( 20 ) got four boundaries off Morkel in the final Powerplay over but was out in a freak manner. The talented Kerala youngster got onto the backfoot as Shakib bowled a fuller delivery. The ball hit his pads and rolled onto the stumps . Rahane hit a few crisp boundaries and also got one when a thickish edge off a rising delivery from Morkel flew over the slip cordon . When Chawla was introduced into the attack , Rahane played a copybook sweep shot to get a boundary when the bowler pitched one well outside the leg-stump . The first 10 overs produced 62 runs for the loss of two wickets . Skipper Watson 's first big hit was a lofted one bounce four off a flighted delivery from Shakib. Rahane followed his skipper as he also used his feet to perfection to play the inside-out lofted shot over extra cover for a boundary . The watershed moment for Royals came in the 14th over before the second strategic time-out as Watson got three boundaries off Piyush Chawla as it yielded 17 runs in all . The first was a slog sweep while the second was a cover drive and the third one a lucky escape as the inside edge went for a boundary . In the next over from Narine , Watson smashed him over extra cover for a boundary. Rahane in the meantime completed his second 50 off the tournament off 44 balls . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Shakib Al Hasan,Rajasthan Royals,Kolkata Knight Riders,IPL 7,Ajinkya Rahane Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
