Rajasthan Royals look to climb up points table Ajit Bezbaruah Ajit Bezbaruah,TNN | May 15 , 2014 , 12.08 PM IST The Royals are currently placed third , with 12 points from 10 games , and are almost certain to make it to the play-offs. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED AHMEDABAD : Delhi Daredevils have little to play for while Rajasthan Royals will be keen to better their position in the points table when the two sides lock horns at the Sardar Patel Gujarat Stadium in Motera on Thursday evening . The Royals are currently placed third , with 12 points from 10 games , and are almost certain to make it to the play-offs while Daredevils are at the bottom with just four points from 10 games . Perhaps Delhi got it wrong during the auction when they picked a team which looked as if it would win all games on the strength of their batting alone. Instead , the bowling has been exposed game after game while the batsmen too have failed to fire . They tried various combinations but nothing is working. No matter how many runs their batsmen put on the board , the Daredevils do n't have an attack capable of defend the runs. If they are bowling first , they have been sent on a leather hunt on most occasions. In the game against Royal Challengers Bangalore ( RCB ) on Tuesday night , Bangalore team scored 184/4 and won the game by 16 runs. Sunrisers Hyderabad ( SRH ) too scored the same amount of runs ( 184 ) for the loss of just two wickets and the Daredevils fell short by four runs . Against Chennai Super Kings ( CSK ) , Daredevils scored 178 only to lose the match by eight wickets. Against Kolkata Knight Riders ( KKR ) they scored 160 and again lost the match by eight wickets. On most occasions Daredevils bowlers have managed to pick just two , three or four opposition wickets — four against RCB , two against KKR , two against CSK , three versus RR and two against SRH. The only time the bowlers came good and picked up seven CSK wickets giving away 177 runs , the Daredevils team was bowled out for a paltry 84 . Their strike bowler , Mohammad Shami , has managed to pick up just five wickets from 10 games . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Rajasthan Royals,IPL 7,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
