Rajasthan Royals score 170/6 against KKR PTI | May 5 , 2014 , 06.18 PM IST Sanju Samson played a few streaky shots as he got a couple of boundaries early on in the innings of Andre Russell. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED AHMEDABAD : A collective effort by Rajasthan Royals batsmen saw them reach a respectable score of 170 for six against Kolkata Knight Riders in their first IPL encounter at home on Monday . Put into bat , in-form openers Karun Nair ( 44 ) and Ajinkya Rahane ( 30 ) gave a good start while Sanju Samson ( 37 ) and skipper Shane Watson ( 31 ) also made useful contributions to prop up the score . Sunil Narine was again the pick of the bowlers grabbing two for 28 in four overs while R Vinay Kumar also got a couple wickets despite being smashed for 42 in four overs . Rahane flicked Vinay off the very first ball of the match to start the innings in right earnest. In Yadav 's second and fourth over of the innings , he carted the pacer for a four and a six off successive deliveries . When Narine dropped one short , he drove the 'Mystery Man ' through the covers as Royals reached the 50-run mark . Having reached 30 off 22 balls with the help of three fours and a six , Rahane looked set for a big knock before it was cut short by a direct throw by Narine from short fine leg position. Rahane who was running to the striker 's end could not make it despite a full stretched dive. The opening stand between Nair and Rahane yielded 52 runs in 6.3 overs . Young Nair however carried on in his calm and calculative manner as he added another 53 with the talented Samson . He may not be one of the explosive players on the block but find of Karnataka 's triumphant Ranji season certainly has the technique to play top quality bowling. On two occasions , he used his feet to sweep Shakib al Hasan 's deliveries . He also got a six with a mis-hit off a Yadav full-toss that flew over deep square leg boundary . However the wily Shakib got his revenge when he cleverly bowled it wide outside off and the batsman had no chance with keeper Robin Uthappa completing the stumping. Nair 's 44 came off 35 balls with four boundaries and a six . Sanju played a few streaky shots as he got a couple of boundaries early on in the innings of Andre Russell . Having scored 37 off 29 balls , Samson fell while facing the 30th delivery as he was holed out at deep mid-wicket boundary trying an ugly hoick off Narine . Skipper Watson played his hand as he hit a couple crushing sixes off Vinay - one over long off and other straight into the sight screen . But Russell 's antics of stopping on his delivery stride before completing the delivery broke his concentration as he was holed out in the deep with Suryakumar Yadav taking a well judged catch at the boundary line. Watson 's 31 came off 20 balls with two fours and equal number of sixes . However it Rajat Bhatia 's six off the last delivery that took Royals ' score to 170 . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sanju Samson,Rajasthan Royals,Kolkata Knight Riders,Karun Nair,IPL 7 Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
