RCB get royal pasting after Tambe heroics K Shriniwas Rao K Shriniwas Rao,TNN | Apr 27 , 2014 , 09.50 AM IST Pravin Tambe of the Rajatshan Royals appeals successfully for the wicket of Ashoke Dinda of the Royal Challengers Bangalore during an IPL 7 match in Abu Dhabi on Saturday. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED ABU DHABI : The Royal Challengers Bangalore arrived at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium on the morning of the match , five and half hours ahead of the scheduled start time . It was a burning hot Saturday and the team had to rush straight to the field to get ready for the game. Until now , they had not played a single match . No wonder , before they could figure what the Abu Dhabi wicket had to offer they fell like a pack of cards against the Rajasthan Royals , falling for a mere 70 runs. Within the first 2.2 overs they had lost four wickets , including those of AB de Villiers and Yuvraj Singh . Shane Watson & Co chased down the target with six wickets to spare and 42 balls remaining. It was by far the most one-sided game in the tournament yet and on the losing side was one of the most formidable batting lineups of the IPL . Rajasthan Royals were left ecstatic , though it did appear at one time during the game that they were capable of making a mess of an easy chase after losing four wickets . Their star of the day was the 42-year-old Pravin Tambe ( 4/20 off his four overs ) , who put them in a strong position early in the afternoon with a four-wicket haul that kept the side in good stead . " It feels good when the team wins. I do n't mind if I do n't get wickets but if the team wins , it is great , " Tambe said after the match. The Royals will take a lot of confidence from this win , especially against a strong team like Challengers . " Beating a good side like the Royal Challengers Bangalore , that will bring in a lot of confidence to the camp. We got a couple of quick wickets within the first six overs and we were on top. And we kept that pressure on throughout the game , " Tambe added . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = IPL,Shane Watson,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Rajasthan Royals,Pravin Tambe Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
