READ MORE Sandeep Sharma | Rishi Dhawan | Mitchell Johnson | Kings XI Punjab | Glenn Maxwell RELATED CHENNAI : Mitchell Johnson has not only spearheaded Kings XI Punjab 's bowling in IPL 7 , but has also proved to be a mentor for the young pacers in the side such as Sandeep Sharma and Rishi Dhawan . In a chat with TOI on Tuesday , the 32-year-old Australian pacer spoke on the changes he made for T20s , playing for Kings XI this season , and his journey to become the world 's best fast bowler . Excerpts : With 10 wickets from nine games in the season so far , have you been able to find the rhythm which is so crucial in T20s ? Yes , I have. As a fast bowler , it is important for me to quickly gauge the length I would bowl on a given surface. The margin for error in T20s is minimal , and I think we have done well so far . What according to you has worked well for Kings XI Punjab this season ? While our batsmen have done well , the bowlers too have risen to the challenge. Our team combination has been spot on. Also , we have maintained relentless pressure on the opposition for longer periods of play , and that has helped us win matches . Would you call Glenn Maxwell and Sandeep Sharma as the finds of the season ? Maxwell did n't have much opportunity with Mumbai Indians last year. But this year , he has been exceptional for Punjab. Maxwell always was a big striker of the ball , and he has utilized his opportunities. I am very impressed by young Sandeep who has used the conditions perfectly , and bowled according to a plan. Sandeep is a quick learner and will only get better . How much of a difference has head coach Sanjay Bangar made to the side ? Sanjay has been really good. What I like most about him is that he is extremely calm , and is specific with what he wants from us . Talk about the roles played by Brett Mortimer ( for whom you once drove a plumbing van ) , Dennis Lillee and Corporal Ben Roberts-Smith ( a war hero ) in shaping you your career ? Be it lengthening my run-up , to raising my fitness and self-belief - they all have played a part. More importantly , these are the people who had faith in me , and that gave me an opportunity to become a tougher player--mentally and physically . How has the birth of your daughter Rubika changed you as a person ? I think it has had a huge impact on me. If I did not have a great day on the field , I can always come home and see her smiling little face . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sandeep Sharma,Rishi Dhawan,Mitchell Johnson,Kings XI Punjab,Glenn Maxwell Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
