Sandeep relishes bowling with Johnson Rohit Bhardwaj Rohit Bhardwaj,TNN | May 3 , 2014 , 11.57 AM IST Ask him about his performance and the 2012 Under-19 World Cup hero plays it down. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : He removed the explosive Jamaican Chris Gayle in his very first over and has been a game-changer for Kings XI Punjab in IPL 7 . He has also formed a strong alliance with the new ball with Australia 's Ashes hero Mitchell Johnson and has scalped seven wickets from three matches ( avg 8.85 ) at a low economy of 5.63 that has helped the franchise defend modest totals . Indeed , Sandeep Sharma , the Patilala-based seamer has been lethal this season , but ask him about his performance and the 2012 Under-19 World Cup hero plays it down . " I have n't done anything new this time , only tried to correct my basics. Last season too I had performed well in the four matches I played and that made the team owners give me a chance early this time , " Sandeep told TOI on Friday , the eve of their match against Mumbai Indians at the Wankhede . " My training at the NCA in Bangalore has been a major reason behind my improvement . My coaches Bharat Arun and Mohnish Bali , along with national trainer VP Sudarshan have helped me a lot and their advice has come in handy in difficult match situations. Also I got to meet the likes of ( Rahul ) Dravid sir and Viru paaji ( Virender Sehwag ) and they too offered me good tips , " he added . Even skipper George Bailey has applauded his efforts on numerous occasions. " It 's good to see Sandeep develop , he 's got great confidence in what he wants to do which makes my job easier , " he had said after KXIP 's win over Royal Challengers Bangalore . " George is an interesting person and has given me total freedom. He has always told me the ball is in your hands and you are your own captain. That does help boost your self-confidence , " Sandeep said , returning the compliment . But has the more experienced Johnson played any role in his display so far ? " We have n't spoken much about our bowling but we 've had long conversations on mental skills and how to keep calm during pressure. He also told me how not to be nervous when you 've been battered by the rival batsman and maintain focus , " he said . Last year 's leading wicket-taker in the Ranji Trophy ( 41 wickets ) , Sandeep was also all praise for coach Sanjay Bangar. " He does n't believe in too many changes and does n't interfere with the skipper or an individual 's decisions . He wants you to be natural , " he said . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sanjay Bangar,Sandeep Sharma,Mitchell Johnson,Kings XI Punjab,Chris Gayle Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
