Simmons blasts season 's first century as Mumbai Indians master Kings XI Punjab Santosh Suri Santosh Suri,TNN | May 22 , 2014 , 09.04 AM IST Simmons 's century came off just 61 balls with 14 fours and two sixes. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED MOHALI : Mumbai Indians came to Mohali with the aim of staying alive and they achieved that with a fair degree of comfort. In a must-win situation the defending champions , on verge of being knocked out , rose to the occasion to keep their faint hopes of making the playoffs alive . Riding on a brilliant century by Lendl Simmons , the first in IPL this year , their seven-wicket win ensured that they retain the mathematical chance of making the grade , even if it looks improbable . But stranger things have happened in cricket and they will return to Mumbai with their chins up to tackle Delhi Daredevils and Rajasthan Royals in their last two games over the next four days . For once , Kings XI Punjab struggled to post a formidable total after they were put in by Mumbai skipper Rohit Sharma on Wednesday . The MI bowlers gave a much improved performance to restrict the table-toppers to 156 for eight , a total which proved inadequate as the visitors romped to victory with consummate ease . Despite the defeat KXIP stayed at the top of the points table and need to win one of their last two games against Rajasthan Royals and Delhi Daredevils to ensure a top-two finish . MI skipper had little doubt that chasing the target was the best option on the flat pitch and he was proved right as red-hot West Indies opener Simmons blazed away to a brilliant century , coming off just 61 balls with 14 fours and two sixes . With him at the helm and in such a devastating mood , the result was a foregone conclusion . However , the match had started much differently , as the way KXIP began their innings , it seemed , they were headed for a big score. Virender Sehwag was in a devastating mood and along with Manan Vohra gave their team a fluent start . But misfortune struck Sehwag when a push off the backfoot struck non-striker Vohra 's pad and stopped right in front of the bowler Praveen Kumar , who just had to pick the ball and remove the bails. Rarely has one seen Viru so disappointed at getting out as he was in a destructive mood and surely the near-full house at the stadium missed out on a special innings from him . Vohra was once again in his elements and continued in the same vein as in the earlier two matches. On both the earlier occasions he looked set for half-centuries , but fell short. This time he perished on 36 . Maxwell had entered the arena to a rousing reception by the home crowd , following his exploits in the IPL this season. But he could get just two runs , his lowest score in 12 matches , to depart much to the disappointment of all . If KXIP were able to get past the 150 mark it was due to some fine hitting by skipper George Bailey in the death overs . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virender Sehwag,Mumbai Indians,Lendl Simmons,Kings XI Punjab,George Bailey Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
