Riding on a brilliant half-century by Suresh Raina , Chennai Super Kings thrashed Mumbai Indians by seven wickets in the IPL eliminator. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : Riding on a brilliant half-century by Suresh Raina , Chennai Super Kings thrashed Mumbai Indians by seven wickets in the IPL eliminator at the Brabourne Stadium on Wednesday. Chennai will now face Kings XI Punjab in the second qualifier . Opener Lendl Simmons smashed a 44-ball 67 as Mumbai Indians posted a challenging score of 173 for eight . The 29-year old Simmons provided the ideal start to the defending champions along with Michael Hussey when they were put into bat by Mahendra Singh Dhoni after winning the toss . The duo piled on quick 76 runs in 58 balls before left-arm spinner Ravindra Jadeja shattered Hussey 's stumps . The pair attacked Mohit Sharma in the sixth over , milking him for 19 runs , with the West Indian Simmons scoring the bulk -- a four on extra cover , a six at mid-wicket and a four over point in consecutive balls . The veteran Australian also looked in good touch and struck four fours and a six in his 33-ball 39 . New Zealand all rounder Corey Anderson , who came one-down , could n't do much damage but his cameo of 20 runs off just eight deliveries consisted of a four and two sixes . Simmons , who has been in good form throughout the tournament hit the bowlers all around the park and his 71 minutes stay at the crease yielded five fours and four sixes . The Trinidadian , the only player to have scored a century this season , looked set for another big score but perished in the 17th over while trying to hit a big shot and was caught at long on by Suresh Raina off Jadeja . Simmons added 44 runs with skipper Rohit Sharma for the third wicket but the latter too returned to the pavilion after five deliveries. Sharma 's 20 comprised three fours . Burly West Indian Kieron Pollard chanced his arm to hit a four and a six in his 14 but his departure triggered a batting order collapse as Mumbai started losing wickets in a clutch while trying to pace their innings . Mumbai lost Pollard , Aditya Tare ( 0 ) , Ambati Rayudu ( 2 ) , Praveen Kumar ( 1 ) in quick succession to find themselves reduced to 166 for eight after the Simmons ' departure at 163 . Mohit Sharma was expensive as he gave away 42 runs in his four overs but the Haryana pacer picked up three wickets , after conceding 25 runs in his first two overs. Ashish Nehra and Jadeja picked up two wickets a piece . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Mumbai Indians,Michael Hussey,Mahendra Singh Dhoni,Lendl Simmons,Chennai Super Kings Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
