Simmons , Hussey guide Mumbai Indians to 178/3 PTI | May 19 , 2014 , 05.56 PM IST Comeback man Mike Hussey ( 56 ) and Lendl Simmons ( 62 ) put on 120 runs for the opening stand , which incidentally was the first three-figure partnership for MI in 30 games. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED AHMEDABAD : Mumbai Indians top-order fired in one of the rare occasions as they put up a competitive 178 for three against Rajasthan Royals after a century-plus opening stand , in an IPL encounter here today . Comeback man Mike Hussey ( 56 ) and Lendl Simmons ( 62 ) put on 120 runs for the opening stand , which incidentally was the first three-figure partnership for MI in 30 games . The last time MI had a century stand was when Sachin Tendulkar and Dwayne Smith conjured 163 runs against the same opposition during the 2012 edition . Hussey scored his runs in 39 balls with three fours and two sixes while Simmons took 51 balls , which included six fours and two sixes . Skipper Rohit Sharma showed his big-hitting prowess during a 19-ball cameo that fetched him 40 runs with three fours and four sixes. Rohit and a subdued Kieron Pollard ( 14 no ) added 56 for the third wicket in five overs . Hussey and Simmons started cautiously trying to get a measure of the slow Motera track. Hussey , coming back to the team after a disastrous UAE leg , looked confident as he played some fluent drives and cuts peppering the in-field . Simmons also proved to be an able partner as he started slowly but picked up the pace as time progressed. Both ran well between the wickets converting a couple of singles into twos . MI 's opening stand yielded 50 runs in 6.4 overs with Simmons racing to 30 . When Faulkner dropped one short , Hussey was quickly on backfoot to pull it in front of square for a six . Hussey 's second six was a slog sweep off left-arm spinner Ankit Sharma into the mid-wicket stands . Simmons also joined the fun as he lofted an ultra-slow delivery from Rajat Bhatia into the deep mid-wicket stands while lofting Kevon Cooper over long-off for his second six . Hussey was the first to reach the half-century of 32 balls while Simmons took 43 balls to attain the individual landmark . Their 100-run partnership , MI 's first of the season came in the 13th over . Royals drew the first blood immediately after the second strategic time-out as Ankit got both Simmons ( 62 ) and Hussey ( 56 ) within a space of two deliveries--- both caught in the deep by Cooper . Ankit ended with impressive figures of two for 23 in four overs . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Rajat Bhatia,Rajasthan Royals,Mumbai Indians,Mike Hussey,Lendl Simmons Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
