Sticking together has helped MI , says Pollard TNN | May 25 , 2014 , 05.58 AM IST READ MORE Real Madrid | Rajasthan Royals | Mumbai Indians | Kieron Pollard | Kevon Cooper RELATED MUMBAI : Mumbai Indians ' star batsman Kieron Pollard says returning to Wankhede Stadium was the turning point for his team as they are back in race for last four in the IPL 7 . " We did not do too well in Dubai. The key was coming to Wankhede. We are accustomed to playing there. Players who have been with Mumbai for a long period of time love it there. That was one key thing , " said the 27-year-old on the sidelines of a promotional event . " Sticking together as a group also helped us. There were n't any bickerings or arguments. We worked hard and practiced with the same intensity as at the start of the tournament. Luck also started to follow us a little bit , " added the Trinidadian . With a last four place in sight thanks to fourth-placed Rajasthan Royals going down to leaders Kings XI Punjab at Mohali last night , Pollard said Mumbai team will go all out against Rajasthan Royals on Sunday . " We have to think about so many mathematical equations , but the first priority is winning. Once we put ourselves in that position to win , then we can try to achieve whatever target we need to , " he said . Talking about the Chris Gayle 's tweet that he ( Pollard ) had copied his style in taking spectacular catches , after he caught fellow West Indian Kevon Cooper with a fantastic catch on the boundary line , Pollard said he would love to copy Gayle more . " Chris is an entertainer. He has done a lot of great things on the cricket field. I would like to copy some of the things he has done on the cricket field as well. " Pollard , a big fan of football , said he would follow the fortunes of France in the FIFA World Cup starting next month and would also like Real Madrid to win the Champions League . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Real Madrid,Rajasthan Royals,Mumbai Indians,Kieron Pollard,Kevon Cooper Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
