Streak ends for both Mumbai and Punjab Rohit Bhardwaj Rohit Bhardwaj,TNN | May 4 , 2014 , 11.54 AM IST Mumbai Indians ' Kieron Pollard and Aditya Tare celebrate their victory against Kings XI Punjab in Mumbai. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : Mumbai Indians were seeking an end to their disappointing run in the Indian Premier League after returning winless from the UAE. On Saturday , they wowed an enthusiastic Wankhede crowd with a five-wicket victory over table-toppers Kings XI Punjab . West Indian Kieron Pollard , who could n't finish off the game against Sunrisers Hyderabad in the previous tie despite a 48-ball 78 , came good with a timely 12-ball 28. Pollard hit the winning six over seamer Sandeep Sharma 's head to end the chase with five balls to spare . Needing 46 from 26 balls , Pollard plundered Aussie Mitchell Johnson for two boundaries and a six in the penultimate over to bring the target within touching distance. Johnson 's expensive 19th over - in which he conceded 20 runs - ended Punjab 's hopes of defending the match . The Trinidadian got good support from youngster Aditya Tare , who scored a six-ball 16 to speed up the chase after skipper Rohit Sharma ( 39 ) along with wicketkeeper CM Gautam ( 33 ) and New Zealander Corey Anderson ( 35 ) built the platform for Mumbai 's first win in six games . The hosts , however , had an undesirable start with opener Ben Dunk ( 5 ) dismissed by Sandeep in the very first over , giving an easy catch to keeper Wriddhiman Saha. Next man Ambati Rayudu ( 8 ) started well but was caught plumb in front of the wicket by the same bowler in his very next over . Rohit , who did n't celebrate his birthday after the team 's close defeat in Dubai , signalled his intentions by pulling Johnson above the mid-wicket fence early in his knock. Anderson , who had n't been able to fire till now , slammed left-arm spinner Akshar Patel for three fours and a six in the 13th over to turn the tide in Mumbai 's favour. It is this knock that helped him claim the Man-of the-Match title . Earlier , Kings XI Punjab rode on Saha 's unbeaten 59 and Australian Glenn Maxwell 's 45 to post a competitive 168-5 . The Preity Zinta co-owned side had an inauspicious start with Delhi dasher Virender Sehwag run out by Rohit for just one run in the third over. Sehwag 's opening partner Cheteshwar Pujara too left an over later after scoring 19 , when he tried to stroke a wide delivery from Anderson above covers only to give an edge to the 'keeper . The Mohali outfit were now reeling at 20-2 after 3.3 overs before Maxwell and Saha added 69 runs for the third wicket to take their team to a safer territory . STORY OF THE MATCH TURNING POINT With just two overs to go , the game hung slightly in Kings XI 's favour with another 25 needed. Bailey went with Mitchell Johnson and Kieron Pollard quickly wrote a thank you note to him , hammering 20 runs in the over to knockout the Kings and register a win . 266.66 : Tare 's Strike Rate : He may have faced just six balls but Aditya Tare made it count playing in home conditions. He struck a six and a four in his six-ball 16. Importantly , in the context of the game , Tare allowed Pollard the breathing space to settle . 10.00 : Akshar 's Economy Rate : The Kings XI spinner had conceded 20 from his three but Anderson took him to the cleaners at the death and that spoilt the wiry bowler 's figures . TALKING POINT A win at last for MI brought smiles on the faces of the fans and lifted the sombre mood in the dressing room. Now , the key for the richest team in the league will be to keep the momentum going after the morale boosting win over table toppers Punjab . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virender Sehwag,Rohit Sharma,Mumbai Indians,Kings XI Punjab,Kieron Pollard Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
