Sunrisers Hyderabad eclipse Rajasthan Royals Ajit Bezbaruah Ajit Bezbaruah,TNN | May 9 , 2014 , 09.20 AM IST Bhuvneshwar Kumar was the pick of the bowlers for Hyderabad with 4/14. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED AHMEDABAD : Like they have often done in the past , Sunrisers Hyderabad bowlers successfully defended a modest total to give a crucial win to their team against Rajasthan Royals at the Motera on Thursday evening . Chasing a target of 135 , Royals slumped to 102 all out in 19.5 overs to lose by 32 runs at their 'home ' ground . This has been a pattern with the Sunrisers in this IPL. Their batsmen have often flattered to deceive. But with Dale Steyn , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Amit Mishra and Karn Sharma manning the bowling posts , the Sunrisers have had a lot going for them . On Thursday , it was Kumar who struck in the third ball of the innings , sending back an in-form Ajinkya Rahane for a duck. But Sanju Samson and Karun Nair took the fight to the Sunrisers with some splendid boundaries . But the honeymoon did n't last long and Nair edged one from Steyn to Naman Ojha behind the wicket when the batsman was on 12. Samson too followed Nair back into the hut , falling to Sharma 's guile for 16 and the Royals suddenly found themselves in a spot of bother. Two overs later , Moises Henriques sent Royals skipper Shane Watson back , again caught by Ojha , and the Royals were in a hole . Kumar then struck three big blows by removing James Faulkner , Rajat Bhatia and Kane Richardson in quick succession to completely deflate Royals. Indeed , Kumar was the pick of the bowlers for Hyderabad with 4/14 . Earlier , the Sunrisers batsmen made batting look a complicated occupation with their diffidence. The top order batters failed to get the ball away. It was also hard to understand why a batsman like David Warner walked in after the fall of the third wicket and that too in the 10th over of the innings. If that was not enough , Sunrisers scored 39 runs off the last 30 balls , losing four wickets in the process as they finished at 134/9 . However , the talking point of the innings was the run out of Mishra. He walked out of the crease after a failed attempt to hit a shot. Wicketkeeper Sanju Samson 's throw just missed the stumps. The bowler , Faulkner , who was on his follow through , collected the ball mid-pitch and also took a shy at the stumps but he missed the target too . The ball again went to Samson behind the stumps and this time he knocked the stumps down. Interestingly , all this while , Mishra could not regain his ground and he was run out as he ambled towards his crease absent-mindedly . HAT-TRICK FOR WATSON Royals were spot on with their bowling which was highlighted by skipper Shane Watson 's hat-trick. Rajat Bhatia bowled his quota of four overs giving away 23 runs and picking up three wickets. Only one boundary was scored off his bowling. IPL 's 'Wonder Boy ' Pravin Tambe too gave away only one boundary while getting figures of 4-0-21-1 . It was only Dhawan who showed some purpose early on. He started with a 'lemon cut ' boundary to the very first delivery of the match bowled by Kane Richardson , who came into the team in place of Tim Southee . STORY OF THE MATCH TURNING POINT Ajinkya Rahane has been the star performer for the Royals. A lot depended on him when they started their chase of 134. However , a loose stroke off Bhuvneshwar Kumar saw him get caught at point. Sanju Samson too played casually against Karn Sharma to be castled . 69.23 Henriques ' Strike Rate : Moises Henriques played his first game for the Sunrisers this season in place of Darren Sammy. But the man who has a reputation of being a big hitter struggled to push the scoring. Nine runs off 13 balls was a poor return for a man of his ball-striking ability . 9.50 Dhawal 's Economy Rate : It seems , the Mumbai seamer has not recovered mentally from the mauling he suffered at the hands of David Miller in Sharjah. On Thursday too , Dhawal was all over the shop as he went for 19 in his two overs . TALKING POINT Why would you want to convert one of the most dreaded opening batsman to a limp middle-order plodder ? David Warner looked all at sea at No. 5 and it was difficult to fathom why Naman Ojha and KL Rahul were sent ahead of him . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunrisers Hyderabad,Shane Watson,Rajasthan Royals,Dale Steyn,Bhuvneshwar Kumar Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
