Sunrisers Hyderabad win as rain brings more gloom for Delhi Daredevils Partha Bhaduri Partha Bhaduri,TNN | May 11 , 2014 , 10.20 AM IST Sunrisers Hyderabad 's Naman Ojha shakes hand with Delhi Daredevils players after his team 's in their IPL 7 match in New Delhi. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : There was rain , thunder , lightning , a small electrical fire and surprisingly , even some brief pyrotechnics from the out-of-form Kevin Pietersen 's bat . It was all to no avail , though , as Delhi Daredevils ' fortunes continued to fizzle at the Ferozeshah Kotla on an incredibly frustrating Saturday . Sunrisers Hyderabad eventually won by 8 wickets via the D/L method against a hapless and luckless Delhi , but not before four rain stoppages - not counting the delay at the break - and the indecisiveness of umpires and match officials had made a mockery of the proceedings . Chasing Delhi 's 143/7 , Hyderabad 's target was first revised to 117 from 15 overs , then 97 off 12 , and then - with Hyderabad 17/1 in 2 overs - to 43 from five , or 26 from the remaining three ! The rain teased and tormented players , officials and spectators as the covers were sometimes brought on even with no rain , only to be removed moments later and then brought on again . Eventually a result was arrived at , as David Warner and Naman Ojha carried the Sunrisers through to 44/2 off 4.2 overs , Ojha finishing things off with a six as to ensure the team survived the fall of Aaron Finch and Shikhar Dhawan 's wickets . Delhi were left languishing at the bottom of the table and their season is effectively over with four consecutive losses at home. Though they were luckless , the first rain break completely deprived their innings of momentum . At one stage the hosts looked like turning their luck around and at 103/3 in 13.1 overs , things looked promising when the first rain stoppage occurred . Delhi 's platform was largely built on a brief blitzkrieg from man in charge Kevin Pietersen ( 35 ; 19b , 4x4 , 2x6 ) , who opened with De Kock . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunrisers Hyderabad,Shikhar Dhawan,Kevin Pietersen,Delhi Daredevils,Aaron Finch Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
