The homecoming of Indian Premier League Gaurav Gupta Gaurav Gupta,TNN | May 2 , 2014 , 11.05 AM IST Chennai Super Kings captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni at Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED A team known more for its pretty , bubbly actor-owner than anything else , has transformed into a marauding unit , crushing everyone in its path , while the star-studded defending champions , bankrolled by one of the richest men in the world and boasting of the best brains in the think-tank , has performed disastrously , failing to win a single match . That just about sums up the first leg of the IPL , which made its debut in the UAE . In between , there was an unforgettable moment , Kolkata Knight Riders ' Chris Lynn flunging himself at deep mid-wicket to pull off a catch that would rank among the greatest in the game . As the dust settles in the desert , two facts have emerged : Kings XI Punjab is the team to beat and Mumbai Indians look like the 'punching bag' . Even before the tournament started , Kings XI appeared a better side when they purchased 'big guns ' like Mitchell Johnson and Virender Sehwag. A team that had never won their first two games beat opponents in all their five games so far . The Kings began with a bang , chasing down 206 to stun the Chennai Super Kings in the opener , and then scored 192 to down Rajasthan Royals in their next outing. The star of the show was Glenn Maxwell , who as a banner in the crowd put it , is the 'Chris Gayle of this IPL' . The Aussie , who was n't thought good enough to be retained by MI , took the tournament by storm , blasting 95 ( off 43 balls ) against CSK , 89 ( off 45 balls ) against the Royals , and then 95 ( off 43 balls ) against the Sunrisers Hyderabad in his first three outings. Maxwell is the top-run-scorer in the championship by a fair distance. The Kings are in 'pole position ' as the event moves to India . At the other end of the spectrum are the Mumbai Indians. Despite a coaching staff that boasts of John Wright ( coach ) , Robin Singh ( assistant coach ) Anil Kumble ( mentor ) , Sachin Tendulkar ( icon ) , and now Ricky Ponting ( advisor ) , they have looked listless , losing all their five games uptill now . MS Dhoni 's Chennai Super Kings , meanwhile , bounced back superbly , winning four games on the trot after controversies and a defeat in the first game laid them low. New recruits Smith and Brendon McCullum have forged into the most dangerous opening pair of the event and already have five fifties amongst themselves . In the middle of the table lie Rajasthan Royals , KKR and Royal Challengers Bangalore. Rajasthan 's batting is still to come into its own , with skipper Shane Watson yet to come to the party. Typically , they have thrived on bowlers , who do n't have much to boast on paper - leggie Pravin Tambe , who took four for 20 to help skittle out RCB for a mere 70 and medium-pacers Kane Richardson and Rajat Bhatia . The Knight Riders rode on Jacques Kallis 's all-round skills , Sunil Narine 's 'mystery, ' Morne Morkel 's pace and Chris Lynn 's spectacular catch to a couple of wins , but their batting has been hugely disappointing. Skipper Gautam Gambhir recorded three ducks in a row before logging just one in the fourth game . RCB were hampered by Chris Gayle 's unavailability due to a back injury , though they would be kicking themselves for snatching a defeat from the jaws of victory against KKR. There seems to be too much load on skipper Virat Kohli . With skipper Kevin Pietersen missing the first few games due to a finger injury , the Delhi Daredevils were slow off the blocks. Like MI , Sunrisers Hyderabad too have flattered to deceive this time , losing three games out of four so far . Will the tables turn in India ? Will MI roar at home ? As the season , like the weather , gets hotter , it will be fascinating to see if the Kings continue their dream run . 1. KINGS XI : RIDING HIGH The flavour of this IPL. The side has played with refreshing freedom and the free hand given to Glenn Maxwell , who was wasted by MI last year , has worked wonders with the Aussie being the protagonist with the bat. David Miller has played useful cameos too. The underrated star though is coach Sanjay Bangar , who plotted all the moves in the auction and taken it further on the field. Watch out for them in India . 2. SUPER KINGS : BACK IN GROOVE The most consistent side in the seven-year history of the League , Chennai Super Kings experienced a bumpy start when they lost to Kings XI Punjab despite posting 205. However , they bounced back with four successive wins , each achieved with clinical efficiency , to be ranked as contenders again. Their new acquisitions McCullum and Smith have impressed as have their old guards Du Plessis , Raina and Ashwin . 3. ROYALS : UP AND DOWN After an impressive win against Sunrisers , they lost two close games against Kings XI and Chennai Super Kings. The loss against CSK would hurt them more as that game was under their control. Their bowlers have done exceedingly well especially Pravin Tambe and Kane Richardson. Batting , usually the strength of the Royals , has floundered with Rahane and Samson throwing away good starts and Watson being inconsistent. Watson 's batting position too ( No. 4 ) is up for debate . 4. KNIGHT RIDERS : CAPTAIN 'S WOES Like Delhi , they went for an overhaul in the auctions and got some good Indian reinforcements like Pandey , Uthappa and Chawla. However , KKR have lacked leadership with the bat from Gambhir. Lack of runs from his willow has also affected his captaincy and decision-making big time. They have won two games though on the back of efforts from Kallis and Pandey . 5. CHALLENGERS : TOO CONFIDENT The way they won the first two games made one think they could be title contenders. However , their over-confidence cost them against KKR as they lost a game that was in their pocket. RCB were annihilated by the Royals in Dubai and the manner of that defeat must rankle. The performances of leggie Yuzvendra Chahal and pacer Varun Aaron though have been refreshing . 6. SUNRISERS : FAIL TO SHINE They have n't really got going. Despite boasting of power-hitters like Finch , Warner , Sammy and Dhawan , they have failed to put up decent scores. Last season , the bowlers bailed out the team by defending modest totals. This year though , barring the game against Daredevils , they have n't fired. Dhawan 's poor form has n't helped . 7. DAREDEVILS : STILL STRUGGLING They went for a complete overhaul in the auction , but ended up with too many bowlers. It showed in the first couple of games as the batting , barring JP Duminy , struggled on two-paced pitches. Pietersen 's injury did n't help the franchise either. The win against Mumbai Indians though should give last year 's laggards some hope . 8. MI : TOO OLD TO FIGHT ? The defending champions have just not clicked. The loss of players like Smith , Mitchell Johnson and Maxwell has robbed the side of some key enforcers. Their decision to pin hopes on ageing stalwarts like Mike Hussey and Zaheer Khan has backfired too. Rohit Sharma , batting at No. 4 , does n't seem to be the player that he can be when he opens . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Rohit Sharma,MS Dhoni,Kevin Pietersen,Gautam Gambhir,Chris Gayle Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
