READ MORE Kolkata Knight Riders | wasim akram | Umesh Yadav | Sunil Narine | Robin Uthappa RELATED BANGALORE : Wasim Akram played a key role in Kolkata Knight Riders ' title triumph in 2012 Indian Premier League. After opting out of the 2013 season , the former Pakistan speedster 's return as a bowling coach this season seems to have had the desired effect. In Bangalore for the title decider against Kings XI Punjab , Akram shared his thoughts about Gautam Gambhir 's captaincy and his impressions on batsman Robin Uthappa , pacer Umesh Yadav and spinner Sunil Narine . How do you rate Gautam Gambhir 's captaincy ? He is not getting many runs but his style has been very attacking. Most captains try to block runs but Gautam goes for the wickets. If you notice , from the eighth to the 15th overs most of the teams use their part-timers. But Gambhir gets Narine , Morkel and Shakib in. The idea is to get wickets and that is the only way you can stop runs . On Uthappa 's form . He is scoring runs in every game. He is in the form of his life. He has got the hang of batting. There are times when he plays good deliveries for incredible shots inside out. He has very safe shots in his armory . How do you assess medium-pacer Umesh Yadav 's performance ? He has got the pace and the swing. He was spraying the ball around a bit and that was owing to lack of confidence. My job is more psychological than anything else , instilling confidence in them. I did that and it worked . Do you think Umesh should have been in the Indian Test squad for England tour ? I am so happy for him that he got picked for the Bangladesh series. But I am a little saddened , with the way he is bowling , he should have been in the squad for the Test series against England. Having played a lot of cricket in England , I believe Umesh 's pace and swing will suit English conditions . How difficult is it for a batsman to read Narine ? With Murali ( Muralitharan ) , you could tell by watching the release but with Sunil , it 's difficult. People have figured out Ajantha Mendis but not Sunil. This was a great signing by KKR and it was Gautam 's idea to bring him into the team . How happy is your owner Shah Rukh Khan ? He met the boys ; he hugged everyone. He is happy , he is over the moon. He 's been tweeting a lot about KKR so I think he 's been following the team 's performance. I hope Shah Rukh comes for the final . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Kolkata Knight Riders,wasim akram,Umesh Yadav,Sunil Narine,Robin Uthappa Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
