Unadkat all praise for 'motivator ' Kirsten Devadyuti Das Devadyuti Das,TNN | May 4 , 2014 , 12.55 PM IST READ MORE Sachin Tendulkar | Jaydev Unadkat | Gary Kirsten | Delhi Daredevils RELATED NEW DELHI : Jaydev Unadkat was just a teenager when he was thrust into international limelight in Durban , of all places. Although his Test debut in 2010 as a 18-year-old ended up in an innings defeat for India , it will go down in record books as the match in which Sachin Tendulkar completed his 50th Test century . The man in charge of Team India back then was Gary Kirsten and Unadkat has now been reunited with the South African coach at Delhi Daredevils this season. " I was just 18 years of age when I was making my Test debut. I still remember what Gary told me on the first day. He said it 's a privilege to play for the country at such a young age and I should cherish this opportunity. Kirsten made me feel at ease inside the Indian dressing room , " Unadkat told TOI on Saturday . The left-arm seamer from Saurashtra has n't played another Test match since then . Kirsten took charge of the Daredevils this season and Unadkat believes he is like a 'elder brother ' for the players. " I do n't see much difference in Kirsten 's training methods since his time in the Indian team. I am sure it 'll be a new experience for him with such a big squad under him. But as a person he remains the same , like an elder brother , " he said . Unadkat is the leading wicket-taker for the Daredevils this season with six scalps in the four games he has played so far and credits Kirsten for his success. " I rate Gary very highly as a coach. He has been guiding and motivating me ever since we met. The best things about him is that he never goes beyond a limit , " he said . One of the areas he is looking to improve with the Daredevils is bowling at the death. " We have been working at plans to bowl at the death , practising our slower balls and yorkers. But sometimes the execution is n't right and the plans in our mind do n't quite click on the field. I hope we can change the trend in the next few games at home , " the 22-year-old seamer said . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sachin Tendulkar,Jaydev Unadkat,Gary Kirsten,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
