Virat Kohli has shown great intensity , says coach Vettori Sunil Subbaiah Sunil Subbaiah,TNN | May 1 , 2014 , 10.58 PM IST READ MORE Virat Kohli | Daniel Vettori | Albie Morkel | AB de Villiers | Royal Challengers Bangalore RELATED BANGALORE : Royal Challengers Bangalore 's batting might have failed to live up to expectations when the team suffered three demoralizing defeats but their coach Daniel Vettori said he was not alarmed by the way their batsmen have misfired . " You need to look at games. In two games our batting was exceptional. We almost got through against Kolkata. We know the performance against Rajasthan was an aberration. So there is still a lot of confidence in our team. We have come back to Bangalore and will play well here , " Vettori said . RCB 's Rs 14-crore signing Yuvraj Singh 's inconsistency has affected the team , but Vettori insists that he is not concerned by the all-rounder 's recent poor form. " I think Yuvraj , if you look at his game individually ; he helped us win the first one , played really well in the last game and almost got us home in the third one. Yuvi has been improving all the time and I am excited by some of his performances , " said the Kiwi . AB de Villiers has been Bangalore 's most reliable middle-order last season , but the South African is yet to fire. " I think he ( De Villiers ) won us the match against Mumbai. I think you have look at match-winning performances and these guys are all players of exceptional quality. We know that they will perform and win us matches , " said the Vettori , who was appointed coach after his three-year stint as player with the Bangalore team . The RCB bowling was considered their weak link before the season. But the unit , comprising Mitchell Starc , Yuzvendra Chahal , Varun Aaron and Ashok Dinda , has risen to the challenge. " We were always really confident about our bowling. I think there is some experience there with ( Ashok ) Dinda. Starc and Aaron have done a really good job. Albie Morkel has played a lot of IPL cricket and I had a good feeling about Chahal after playing against him in the Champions League final when he managed to beat us , " he said . Vettori believes the team will rely heavily on home advantage to bounce back in the tournament. " The team has played exceptionally well in the past here , especially our batting. I think there is a sense of looking forward towards games in India. So we will rely on home advantage in the next few days , " the Kiwi added . On Virat 's captaincy , Vettori said : " Virat has done a very good job. I have always admired leaders who have that intensity and immense desire to win. And that 's what Virat has shown so far. He is the player that young guys really want to follow , " he said . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virat Kohli,Daniel Vettori,Albie Morkel,AB de Villiers,Royal Challengers Bangalore Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
