It was indeed a throwback to the last decade when Sehwag was the cause of absolute joy to the nation. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : Even Ferraris need a first gear. Try telling that to Virender Sehwag and he 'll probably smirk at you. The Kings XI Punjab opener blasted off like a space shuttle at the Wankhede on Friday to leave the Chennai Super Kings dazed , decimated and dumped out of IPL 7 . The dasher from Najafgarh rose to the occasion to out-bat the two-time champs in Qualifier 2 with a vintage performance that left the capacity crowd swaying and chanting his name and Kings XI a place in Sunday 's final against Kolkata Knight Riders at Bangalore . The 35-year-old smoked 12 fours and eight sixes in his 58-ball 122 his second IPL ton which helped Punjab score 227 for 6 their third 200-plus score against MS Dhoni 's team this season . In reply , Suresh Raina came out all fire and brimstone and took the fight to Kings XI. He marched to the second quickest fifty of the IPL in just 16 balls . Kings XI looked rattled by the left-hander 's onslaught as CSK put on 100 - 87 off Raina 's bat alone - in six overs. As he eyed the quickest ever hundred , a misunderstanding with Brendon McCullum and brilliant turn-around direct throw from George Bailey ended the hurricane innings which lasted 25 balls and was peppered by 12 boundaries and six hits over it . A moment of fielding magic from Bailey turned the match on its head. Bailey 's on-the-run throw from point , when he had only one stump to aim at , disturbed the furniture , catching Suresh Raina short of the line. This run out cut short Raina 's awesome knock , probably the best of the IPL 7 , and brought Punjab back into Qualifier 2 . Raina was simply toying with the attack and had zoomed to 87 off just 25 balls , an unbelievable exhibition of power hitting which looked like making light of a huge target of 227 . However , once he went back , Punjab efficiently clawed their way back into the match as CSK batsmen fell under the pressure of the massive target. In the end , CSK finished at 202/7 to lose by 24 runs . Raina 's effort however lowered the asking rate to nine or thereabouts but following his departure , the other players could not match his derring-do and the asking rate just kept rising . The wheels came off pretty quickly for the men in yellow after Raina 's unfortunate departure. None of the foreign imports delivered on the night and Dhoni did n't help matters by sending the likes of Jadeja and David Hussey ahead of him as they went down by 24 runs . Kings XI 's fielding did much of the damage for CSK with a couple of brilliant run outs and spectacular catching efforts . Earlier , it was indeed a throwback to the last decade when Sehwag was the cause of absolute joy to the nation with his daredevilry that paved the way for many famous Indian triumphs. He did that again and this time for the Kings XI a team that had time and money for him when others had written him off . The writing was on the wall for CSK as Sehwag and his opening partner Manan Vohra raced away to 70 in the first six overs. Dhoni 's ploy of holding back R Ashwin and bringing him on when the field was spread did n't really work as Sehwag launched the first ball from the off-spinner straight into the orbit. He did n't let Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja settle , smacking 58 runs off 25 balls that the two spinners bowled at him . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virender Sehwag,Suresh Raina,MS Dhoni,Kings XI Punjab,Chennai Super Kings Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
