Warner , Rahul propel Sunrisers Hyderabad to 172/5 PTI | Apr 30 , 2014 , 10.02 PM IST David Warner of the Sunrisers Hyderabad celebrates his fifty during an IPL 7 match against Mumbai Indians in Dubai on Wednesday. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED DUBAI : David Warner hit a fighting half-century and combined well with Lokesh Rahul ( 46 ) for a superb 111-run partnership as Sunrisers Hyderabad scored a competitive 172 for five against struggling Mumbai Indians in their IPL match on Wednesday . Warner worked hard for runs initially but once he got his eye in and was settled , the Australian left-hander scored runs at a brisk pace. He hit more sixes ( 4 ) than fours ( 1 ) in his 51-ball knock before departing towards the end of the SRH innings . Rahul also contributed in Hyderabad 's decent total by supporting Warner well in their third-wicket stand , following cheap dismissal of their openers . Veteran paceman Zaheer Khan ( 2/26 ) bowled with good rhythm and succeeded in sending Shikhar Dhawan ( 6 ) and Aaron Finch ( 16 ) back to dugout inside the first five overs . The SRH skipper edged one to Harbhajan Singh in slips immediately after hitting a boundary while Finch , who yet again looked in good touch , failed to keep a drive on the ground and was caught in covers by Ben Dunk . Lasith Malinga and Harbhajan Singh also bowled well and at the same time SRH batsmen did not lack in application and were maintaining a decent run-rate . Pragyan Ojha was the only Mumbai bowler who failed to make an impact. He was hit for consecutive boundaries by Rahul and was also punished by Warner , who smashed the spinner to a huge six over the mid-wicket . In his first two overs , the left-arm spinner leaked 25 runs , allowing SRH to overcome the early loss of the openers . At half-way mark , SRH were 71 for two , albeit there were not much boundaries , only six at that stage . Warner and Rahul had to work hard for runs. They relied on rotating the strike , rather than going for big shots . In fact , at one time , the gap between two boundaries was almost six overs. The shackles were broken when Ojha returned. He first fired his second wide for five runs and then Warner again hammered him for a massive six . Warner did not spare Pollard and even umpire Kumar Dharamasena , who was hit on his shoulders by one of his furious shots . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Zaheer Khan,Sunrisers Hyderabad,Mumbai Indians,David Warner,Lokesh Rahul Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
