READ MORE Wriddhiman Saha | Virender Sehwag | Kings XI Punjab RELATED HYDERABAD : Kings XI Punjab had a clear game plan. They needed 206 for victory and the idea was to score as much as possible in the powerplay overs . With 86 runs in their bag for the loss of Virender Sehwag in the first six overs , the job was half done. Wriddhiman Saha 's relentless hitting and his fine partnership with Manan Vohra ensured the batsmen following them will have little to do . " The idea was to get as many as possible in the first six overs so that it will be easier for Maxwell , Miller and Bailey. To score as many as possible by losing as few wickets as possible , that would be good for the team , " said man of the match Saha after his frenetic 54 set up a six-wicket win for his team . Vohra playing his first match of the tournament , played a good role too. " He batted very well. He looks in good touch , great timing and played very good shots. From the non-striker 's end , I enjoyed myself totally. " Saha enjoyed his knock as much as he enjoyed Naman Ojha 's unbeaten 79. " It was a good wicket and I enjoyed my batting. There was no pressure. They had already made 205. We decided our game plan and played accordingly. It was a good win as a team. Ojha played very well. We have played a lot together , India A , Ranji trophy. He is good to watch , " Saha added . Meanwhile , Sunrisers Hyderabad captain Shikhar Dhawan felt poor execution was the reson behind loss . " We put up a great total on board , but we did n't execute our plans well with our bowling. That cost us the game. We got Maxwell out early and that was a no-ball. After that , he hit a few more sixes. If it were not a no-ball , it would have been a different story but yeah , we did n't bowl that great,' ' he added . It 's not the first time Maxwell got lucky. In the first leg , Darren Sammy was the culprit as they scored 193 for six in Sharjah . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Wriddhiman Saha,Virender Sehwag,Kings XI Punjab Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
