Will Chris Gayle join RCB party tonight ? K Shriniwas Rao K Shriniwas Rao,TNN | Apr 24 , 2014 , 10.08 AM IST It is Gayle 's penchant to entertain the masses that has made him the league 's most popular star. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED DUBAI : The Royal Challenges Bangalore have batted impressively in the two matches they played in the UAE and look set to walk up the same path when they meet the Kolkata Knight Riders on Thursday in Sharjah . However , despite the likes of Virat Kohli , AB de Villiers and Yuvraj Singh , among others , adding to the star quotient , the crowds will rush to the Sharjah Cricket Stadium on Thursday hoping for the return of the one batsman who 's entertained in the IPL like nobody else : Chris Gayle . Having missed both RCB 's matches because of a troubling back , Gayle had been lying low until now , leaving teammates Virat Kohli and AB de Villiers among others to keep the runs coming. Gayle 's return , though , is not only likely to add plenty of muscle to this RCB line-up , but also bring alive scores of fans who have switched on and switched off television sets or have bought tickets to the match to watch it live only for this man over the last few years . Such has been Gayle 's following in the IPL. From the 175 he scored for the Bangalore side last season to the string of massacres that oppositions have suffered , facing him , it is the Jamaican 's penchant to entertain the masses that has made him the league 's most popular star . The young Nic Maddinson , who has been opening the innings for the Royal Challengers in the absence of Gayle along with Parthiv Patel , will make way for the dynamic run-getter in case he returns. When asked if he was indeed fit to play , Patel said he did n't know. " I have no idea , " he said . The game will pit Knights ' impressive bowling against the batting might of RCB. The Challengers are in a better position , having won both their matches so far in the league and will therefore start as favourites against Gautam Gambhir 's team that won its first game , but lost the second one . While a great contest between the bat and the ball can be expected here when the match gets underway , the evening will end up being all the more in focus because of the likely return of the IPL 's most-followed batting star . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Yuvraj Singh,Virat Kohli,Royal Challenges Bangalore,Chris Gayle,AB de Villiers Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
