Will Delhi Daredevils miss home advantage ? Devadyuti Das Devadyuti Das,TNN | May 3 , 2014 , 11.48 AM IST The Delhi & District Cricket Association have prepared three tracks for the five games at Kotla. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : In the last six seasons of the IPL , Sawai Mansingh Stadium has been a fortress for Rajasthan Royals while Chepauk has pretty much been an impenetrable citadel for the Chennai Super Kings. The Delhi Daredevils have had no such luck at the Ferozeshah Kotla . In the last three years , the Daredevils have been packed with seam bowlers with the like of Morne Morkel , Umesh Yadav , Varun Aaron , Irfan Pathan , Ashish Nehra and Andre Russell all toiling rather fruitlessly on the bald Kotla track. This year the team led by Kevin Pietersen should expect nothing different . The Delhi & District Cricket Association have prepared three tracks for the five games at Kotla which are all pretty much expected to behave like their predecessors - slow and low. The preparation of the pitch is being overseen by BCCI Pitches & Grounds Committee curator Taposh Chatterjee with aid from DDCA 's Noor Mohammed and Ankit Dutta . There was a minor furore on the eve of the first IPL 7 tie on Saturday when DDCA vice-president Chetan Chauhan decided to change the track for the match at the last moment . " We have prepared three tracks for the IPL games. The May 3 game was supposed to be played on the side wicket but Mr Chauhan decided to pick the centre wicket. The preparation of all three tracks has been identical but we wo n't know how they perform until the first game is played , " a source close to the development told TOI on Friday . " There is only a small covering of grass to bind the tracks since there will be five games in the next 15 days on these tracks. Since the first game is now being played on centre wicket the May 5 and 7 matches will be played on the two side wickets now. The nature of the track though will remain pretty much like Kotla wickets of the past. We just want to ensure that there is no uneven bounce , " the source added . That though nullifies the home advantage for the Daredevils who are packed with pace bowlers like Mohammad Shami , Wayne Parnell , Jaydev Unadkat , James Neesham and Rahul Shukla . Kotla in numbers 37 IPL matches have been played at the Ferozeshah Kotla. A total of 10,918 runs have been scored at a loss of 424 wickets in 71 innings. The highest score at Kotla is 231 , scored by the home team against Kings XI Punjab in 2011 , and the lowest is 83 , scored by Delhi Daredevils against CSK in 2013. The average score is 154 . The pitch has favoured fast and medium-pace bowlers , who have grabbed 279 of those 424 wickets , i.e. 65.8 % of the total wickets. Surprisingly , spinners have just managed to take just 95 of the total wickets . - Rohan Puri http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Varun Aaron,Kevin Pietersen,Delhi Daredevils,Chetan Chauhan,BCCI Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
