Harbhajan Singh , who has often delivered under pressure , said he has always enjoyed being challenged. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : Considering that the margin for error is very less in Twenty20 leagues such as IPL , veteran off-spinner Harbhajan Singh says it is important to " have courage and bowl without fear " in the slam-bang format where batsmen call the shots . Playing for Mumbai Indians in the ongoing seventh edition of the Indian Premier League , Harbhajan turned in an impressive performance during his side 's win over Royal Challengers Bangalore , claiming the important wicket of a marauding Chris Gayle . " In this format , you can not save yourself and think that you wo n't go for runs. You will go for runs , but at the same time , you have to have the courage to accept the challenge and bowl without fear , " Harbhajan said . " You have to take those risks and that is what I look to do. When I was bowling to Gayle , I was only planning to get him out rather than giving him a single. The best way to keep batsmen quiet is to get them out rather than being defensive. " The experienced campaigner , who has often delivered under pressure , said he has always enjoyed being challenged . " I have played a lot of cricket under pressure all these years and this is also one of the stages in my career where I am giving my best for my side. There are certain people who perform when the stage is big and the opponents are big. I enjoy such challenges , " he said . " I know I will only come out stronger from such situations. It might not always work your way , but you have to accept the challenge and see what is in store for you . " In this format , you will get wickets that are batsmen-friendly. All you can do is use your brain and use variations and make sure you do not give too much pace for the batsmen to score freely , " explained Harbhajan . Asked if being the senior-most spinner in the side puts extra pressure on him , Harbhajan said , " I am quite happy with the way things are going. I am open to bowling at any stage of the game. I realise that I am probably the senior-most player in the team along with Lasith Malinga . " It is up to us to share the load of the bowling attack when it comes to powerplays or at the death. The job becomes a bit difficult when you do not have too many experienced bowlers in the side , but it is good to see youngsters taking up the challenge and delivering for us. " http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Mumbai Indians,IPL 7,Harbhajan Singh,Chris Gayle Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
