Yuvraj finally fires , but Smith and Faulkner ruin RCB party Shrivathsa Sridhar Shrivathsa Sridhar,TNN | May 12 , 2014 , 08.39 AM IST Rajasthan Royals ' Steven Smith and James Faulkner celebrate their win against Royal Challengers Bangalore in their IPL 7 match in Bangalore. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED BANGALORE : With a Twenty 20 masterclass on Sunday that stemmed from being cornered , Royal Challengers Bangalore 's Yuvraj Singh repaid the faith of the home fans if not a part of the Rs 14 crore the team spent on him in the Indian Premier League auction earlier this year . The left-hander , targeted for his indifferent performances and heavy price tag , smashed Rajasthan Royals ' bowlers all over the M Chinnaswamy Stadium for a 38-ball 83 as RCB 's commanding total of 190/5 set them up nicely. He then turned chief tormentor with the ball , grabbing four wickets ( 4-0-35-4 ) to further bolster his team . However , that was the only joy on the night for the hosts as Rajasthan Royals chased down the daunting target with seven balls and five wickets to spare thanks to a collective team effort that might serve as another lesson for the Virat Kohli-led team . On a wicket that was a batsman 's delight , the Rajasthan 's Bangalore boy Karun looked dangerous as he smashed a fine 56 to keep his side in the hunt . However , it was the Australian duo of Steven Smith ( 48 n.o. , 21b , 4x4 , 4x6 ) and James Faulkner ( 41 n.o. , 17b , 3x4 , 3x6 ) that knocked the stuffing out of the hosts with a rollicking 85-run partnership for the sixth wicket to seal the deal with something to spare . Earlier , in the company of AB de Villiers ( 58 , 32b , 1x4 , 5x6 ) , Yuvraj ( 83 , 38b , 7x4 , 7x6 ) helped salvage RCB 's innings after it threatened to follow a frustratingly similar pattern to the last game. With the score at 40/3 after just over eight overs , the big-hitting pair was faced with the task of rebuilding . And the men in question did n't waste time. Yuvraj first tested his might on Royals ' two-pronged leg-spin attack of Pravin Tambe and Rahul Tewatia before unleashing a couple of solid blows against Rajat Bhatia . TURNING POINT 65 runs 17 balls : It was Royal Challengers match to lose and they just did that. Steven Smith and James Faulkner hammered 65 off 17 deliveries to give Rajasthan Royals an incredible win that will be spoken for some time to come. Faulkner ended with a strike rate of 241 and his partner Smith was n't far behind with 228 . 218.42 Yuvraj 's strike-rate : The strapping left-hander , rose to the occasion when his team needed the most. RCB were left tottering at 3-40 when Yuvraj played an absolutely stunning innings , scoring 83 off just 38 balls. He struck 7 fours and as many sixes to leave the Rajasthan Royal pacers bewildered 10.75 Richardson 's eco-rate : Kane Richardson , the young Aussie pacer , did pick two wickets , but went for 43 runs. Yuvraj , in particular , took a liking for him , slamming him for three sixes . TALKING POINT Virat Kohli walked out to open the batting with Chris Gayle. It was a bold move by the young captain who is desperate to get some runs under his belt. But he failed to get going and his IPL form , which has taken a beating so far this season , continues to be in a state of struggle. The prolific run-getter has n't somehow been able to convert his India performances for the Royal Challengers franchise where the likes of AB de Villiers , Chris Gayle and Yuvraj Singh are playing under him this season . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Yuvraj Singh,Virat Kohli,Steven Smith,James Faulkner,AB de Villiers Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
