BCCI chucks Rajasthan out of domestic calendar The author has posted comments on this article Saibal Bose , TNN | Aug 24 , 2014 , 11.32AM IST Despite assurances from the BCCI , Rajasthan 's players are set to suffer . Page 1 of 4 JAIPUR : When the BCCI suspended Rajasthan Cricket Association , it was a foregone conclusion that the state body 's teams would not be included in the domestic tournaments for 2014-15 . However , with Sanjay Patel assuring that Rajasthan players would not suffer , there was still some hope for the Pankaj Singhs and Ashok Menarias . The BCCI , in fact , went a step forward by selecting Pankaj Singh , Deepak Chahar and Abhimanyu Lamba , all Rajasthan-based medium-pacers , for the national teams. For a moment , it seemed that the players would indeed be spared in this standoff between the BCCI and the RCA . That hope , however , evaporated when the BCCI announced its domestic calendar. RCA 's name was nowhere to be found. Despite assurances from the BCCI , Rajasthan 's players were set to suffer . The two bodies have been engaged in a legal fight over electing the BCCI-banned Lalit Modi as the RCA president . So what went wrong ? Sources feel this is the BCCI 's " reaction to the slight shown by the state government towards its ad-hoc committee " , led by Brijesh Patel . " Three senior BCCI executives had come to Jaipur to meet government officials to sort out the issue , " a source told TOI . " However , the government officials did not even extend them basic courtesies , forget about help. The state 's chief secretary hardly gave them any time and the sports secretary made them wait in the court yard before meeting them. " In fact , the government officials indicated there was little they could do. " Not only were the basic courtesies missing , these officials were quite bullish , " the source said. " If nothing else , you are at least expected to treat senior BCCI officials like Brijesh Patel and Anirudh Choudhary with some respect. " Now , what happens to the players ? Clearly , they will have to cool their heels till a solution is found . There were some suggestions that the BCCI could have formed a 'Rajasthan ' team. However , that is not possible as the Rajasthan State Sports Act does not permit that . There are clauses which bars the use of the term 'Rajasthan ' and any breach of the law in this regard is a punishable offence. Neither does the BCCI constitution allow an additional team in the domestic tournaments . There could be a legal solution but the process is long drawn . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
