BCCI complies with SC order , removes all India Cements staff The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 31 , 2014 , 01.53PM IST The Supreme Court , during a hearing into the IPL spot-fixing and related issues on Friday , passed an interim order asking Sunil Gavaskar to take over as BCCI president for IPL affairs Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Complying with the Supreme Court 's order , the BCCI has given marching orders to all the employees of India Cements or its associate companies who were also part of the Cricket Board . Confirming the development , a BCCI source said , " All India Cements employees connected with the BCCI have been taken out of the Board as per the Supreme Court 's order. " The notable faces among them are Tamil Nadu Cricket Association secretary and a close aide of Srinivasan , Kashi Viswanathan , who was a member of the National Cricket Academy ( NCA ) and New Area Development sub-committees. He headed the costs department of India Cements for a long time and retired only a couple of years back . Apart from Vishwanathan , others India Cements employees who have been removed from the BCCI till the Supreme Court 's final orders are Indian team 's logistics manager M A Satheesh , chief financial officer of Indian Premier League Prasanna Kannan , the joint secretary of TNCA R I Palani who is one of the senior managers of the company and is a member of the BCCI zonal academies committee . Interestingly , Satheesh , who was in Bangladesh with the Indian team for the ICC Twenty20 World Cup , was called back on Saturday after the Supreme Court 's order . The Supreme Court , during a hearing into the IPL spot-fixing and related issues on Friday , passed an interim order asking Sunil Gavaskar to take over as BCCI President for IPL affairs and Senior Vice President Shivlal Yadav to take charge of non-IPL matters. It also ordered that employees of India Cements or its associate companies should not be part of the Cricket Board . The Supreme Court , however , said players and commentators who are on India Cements ' payroll can be part of the BCCI. Besides India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni , who is a vice-president in the company , a number of present and former players including Ravichandran Ashwin , Dinesh Karthik , Rahul Dravid and cricketer-turned-commentator L Sivaramakrishnan are employed with India Cements . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
