BCCI 's affiliated units fear huge loss of revenue The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Mar 28 , 2014 , 02.57AM IST The BCCI can not be seen to push for a curtailed tournament which will be grossly unfair to players , as they will end up paying for the follies of the team owners. Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : There was both relief and concern among BCCI 's affiliated units on Thursday , following the Supreme Court 's proposals to cleanse the IPL and its choice of interim president till the investigations into corruption in the mega T20 league are over . With the apex court brushing aside BCCI president N Srinivasan 's offer to 'step aside ' to facilitate an impartial inquiry , there was a sense of relief among the 30-odd members . However , it gave way to concern when the court suggested that former captain Sunil Gavaskar be the interim president and Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals be kept out of the current IPL . The unease in BCCI stems from the possibility of having an 'outsider ' ( Gavaskar ) with no administrative experience at the helm of its affairs , but their bigger worry is the immediate future of the money-spinning IPL . The seventh edition of IPL will be in jeopardy if CSK and RR are thrown out. Faced with the prospect of having to do without the considerable moolah from IPL that flows into their coffers annually , BCCI 's 'Cosy Club ' - comprising members of its affiliated units - went into sulking mode . It is clear as daylight that a six-team IPL is not an option before the BCCI , which is contract-bound to organise a minimum of 59 matches in an IPL season . Even if the broadcasters agree to a curtailed schedule ( 39 ) and all matches are held in the country after the General Election , the big question is what happens to the 45 players picked up during the auctions by CSK ( 20 ) and RR ( 25 ) . Interestingly , CSK only have eight players on their current roster that played for them last season , while RR have nine. This means even if CSK and RR are suspended from IPL 7 a majority of players on their roster last season would beat the ban as they have been picked up by other franchises . Similarly , the likes of Brendon McCullum and Dwayne Smith , who played for KKR and MI , respectively , last season , may have to sit it out for no fault of theirs if CSK are kept out. Ditto for RR 's current signings Rajat Bhatia ( KKR ) , Iqbal Abdulla ( KKR ) , Unmukt Chand ( DD ) and Dhawal Kulkarni ( MI ) . As the organizers of the world 's biggest T20 tournament , the BCCI can not be seen to push for a curtailed tournament which will be grossly unfair to players , as they will end up paying for the follies of the team owners . It will also mean significantly less revenue for the remaining six franchises. By allowing Srinivasan to sit on the IPL mess for nearly a year , instead of pushing for an 'Operation Clean-Up ' , the 'Cosy Club ' members now have no choice but to hope for relief when the apex court hears the case on Friday before pronouncing its verdict . The consensus in India 's cricket fraternity is that the BCCI would be better off keeping the IPL in a state of suspended animation , cooperating with the investigating agencies to weed out the corrupt elements and putting stringent checks and balances in place before re-launching the money-spinning event . In order to do so , BCCI 's 'Cosy Club ' must start afresh under a new chief - Gavaskar , or any other eminent person the court deems fit . While Gavaskar has impeccable credentials as a cricketer and is widely respected worldwide , his current status as a contracted commentator with BCCI TV and a cricket expert with a private TV channel , may be in conflict with his proposed new role . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
