Cricket will overcome crisis , says Rahul Dravid The author has posted comments on this article Sunil Subbaiah , TNN | Mar 27 , 2014 , 08.18PM IST " In every field of life certain things happen that should n't have happened. But it 's not that the whole game is spoilt , " Dravid said. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BANGALORE : The IPL spot-fixing scandal may have brought cricket into disrepute but former India and Rajasthan Royals skipper Rahul Dravid feels that the game 's credibility is not lost and is confident that it will overcome the crisis . " In every field of life certain things happen that should n't have happened. But it 's not that the whole game is spoilt , " Dravid , mentor of Rajasthan Royals , said . " Earlier also there have been incidents like these , but the game is great and will go on. There are bad things in every sphere of life. I do n't think the game will be hit because of this , " said Dravid while refusing to comment on the Supreme Court 's proposal to suspend Rajasthan Royals and Chennai Super Kings from IPL . " I would n't want to make a comment because I 've not seen the proposal and these matters are in the court. We have to wait for the court judgment. " Mumbai Indians mentor Anil Kumble said it is the players responsibility to set things right to ensure the game 's reputation remains undamaged. " The first set of allegations came in 1999-2000 and it was the responsibility of the players to set things right . Even now , the players on the field will determine how the game is going to be seen. Yes , we have an opportunity to do whatever we can to ensure that the game is above all of this , " said Kumble . " Like I said , this is nothing different to what we see in our society. There is no difference to cricket. I ca n't comment beyond this. I do n't know what the proposal is. The matter is sub-judice , so let us wait for the Supreme Court to give its verdict. I 'm sure all of us as law-abiding citizens will abide by it. " On whether cricket associations in the South have backed Srinivasan despite the problems , Kumble said : " It 's not just one person that you are talking about . You are talking about a cricket association and it was not conditional support. Yes , it was important for us to take cricket forward and you need it to take support from the association at that point of time and I do n't see a reason there is something wrong in supporting. " Former chairman of selectors Krishnamachari Srikkanth , however , refused to comment. " I do n't think it 's proper for any of us to comment , unless we know the exact information. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
