Dhoni and Srinivasan slam IPL panel report The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Apr 17 , 2014 , 04.03AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Chennai Super Kings ( CSK ) captain M S Dhoni and BCCI president-in-hibernation N Srinivasan , who is also managing director of India Cements which owns CSK , questioned on Wednesday the Justice Mukul Mudgal probe panel report which has accused them of " lying " about Gurunath Meiyappan 's role in CSK . The apex court-appointed IPL probe committee had said in its report : " Representatives of India Cements , who appeared before the committee , contended that Meiyappan ( who is also Srinivasan 's son-in-law ) had no shareholding in India Cements and hence could not be considered an owner of CSK. " The committee had also recorded in its report , " Further , M S Dhoni , N Srinivasan and officials of India Cements took the stand that Meiyappan had nothing to do with the cricketing affairs of Chennai Super Kings and was a mere cricket enthusiast supporting CSK. " Before concluding that Meiyappan was guilty of betting , the committee had said it was of the considered view that " Meiyappan formed an integral part of Chennai Super Kings and most persons viewed him as the face of the team... The committee is of the opinion that Meiyappan would be a 'team official ' under the IPL operational rules " . Based on these findings , Cricket Association of Bihar 's counsel Harish Salve had accused Dhoni and Srinivasan of lying to the inquiry panel in an attempt to cover up Meiyappan 's role and said that this was akin to corrupt practice . Appearing for the BCCI , senior advocate C A Sundaram told a bench of Justices A K Patnaik and F M I Kalifulla that he had instructions from Dhoni and Srinivasan to challenge the veracity of the panel 's report as far as it recorded their statement to the effect that Meiyappan was a mere cricket enthusiast . " I have firm instructions from both Srinivasan and Dhoni and say that they have never said these things before the committee , " Sundaram said and sought to see the audio recordings of their depositions . " There is no corrupt practice by either Dhoni or Srinivasan. The transcripts or audio tapes would bear them out , " the counsel said . The bench asked the Justice Mukul Mudgal committee to engage a counsel to defend its report in the light of Sundaram 's charge . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
