Dhoni attempting to gag media , Zee tells Madras high court The author has posted comments on this article A Subramani , TNN | Apr 2 , 2014 , 05.13PM IST Zee television network said the Indian cricket captain was attempting to gag media from discussing an issue of national and public importance. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : Dhoni is attempting to gag the media from reporting the IPL betting and match fixing scam , Zee television network alleged , adding that the cricket India captain had not yet been given clean chit by the Mudgal committee , which has recommended an independent and full-fledged probe into the issue . Responding to Dhoni 's Rs 100-crore defamation suit in the Madras high court on Wednesday , the channel said it merely reported suspended IPS officer G Sampath Kumar 's deposition to the committee . " Contents of deposition of G Sampath Kumar came into public domain on February 11 when India Today published the extracts of Sampath Kumar on its website. The name of Dhoni prominently appears in the extract. In his deposition before the committee , Sampath Kumar , IPS , SP , Railways , Tiruchi , categorically deposed that one Uttam Jain @ Kitty spoke about the involvement of Dhoni. The fact that Sampath Kumar had stated the name of Dhoni before the Mudgal committee is not under challenge. On the contrary , Sampath Kumar himself corroborated the fact of his deposition and naming Dhoni before Mudgal committee in a sting operation carried out by Zee television , " said the counter , filed in the high court on Wednesday . Denying that it deliberately attempted to malign Dhoni , Zee said the cricket captain was attempting to gag media from discussing an issue of national and public importance . It , however , said Zee never said Dhoni was aware of fixing matches , that he was a participant in fixing matches , that he was shielding persons linked to such activities and that his wife was involved in murky dealings with Vindoo Dara Singh . Despite several bids , there was no response from both Dhoni and the Chennai police , zee said . Zee 's counter also said that Mudgal committee raised serious questions on the investigation conducted by the crime branch CID of Chennai police. " It observed that the issue had not been investigated by Chennai police despite availability of such information and called the conduct of the Chennai police curious , " the counter said . The matter is expected to be taken up for further hearing next week . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
