'Livid ' Dhoni offers to quit as CSK skipper , India Cements VP The author has posted comments on this article MS Dhoni had a discussion with India Cements boss N Srinivasan over phone on Friday morning and requested that his resignation from the VP 's post be accepted and that he be relieved from CSK captaincy. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : Under fire for holding positions in conflict with his cricketing roles , MS Dhoni has offered to step down as Chennai Super Kings captain and vice-president of India Cements Limited , it is learnt . The Team India skipper , currently in Dhaka for the T20 World Cup , is " extremely disappointed and annoyed " that his name has been dragged into the spot-fixing controversy . He had a discussion with India Cements boss N Srinivasan over phone on Friday morning and requested that his resignation from the VP 's post be accepted and that he be relieved from CSK captaincy . " As of now , it has not been accepted but the two parties are still in discussion and it may happen very soon , " a source close to the developments told TOI on Friday . Harish Salve , the counsel for Bihar cricket association chief Aditya Verma , on Thursday accused Dhoni of giving false statements to the Mudgal committee about the role of Gurunath Meiyappan in Chennai Super Kings . " Dhoni felt that the recent developments have spoilt his image. That is why he wants to quit from both the posts , " the source added . CSK is the most successful IPL team , winning the title twice and featuring in the final on five occasions. It has also won the T20 Champions League. Dhoni has captained the side since its inception . " Dhoni is a huge brand and if he quits , CSK 's image will take a beating. The way he has led CSK for the last six years is phenomenal and it 's very difficult to replace him as captain. The India Cements management is trying its best to ensure that he stays , " the source added . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
