Sunil Gavaskar said he will not shy away from the task. " If the court tomorrow still says that I have to be the interim president , I will surely take it up. " ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 VISAKHAPATNAM : Are Sunny days here again ? The Supreme Court 's suggestion that Sunil Gavaskar should take over as BCCI 's interim president in place of N Srinivasan could herald in a new phase in the legendary opening batsman 's career but also in the board . The 64-year-old Sunil Gavaskar said he was more than happy with the court 's proposal and was ready for the challenge. " Well , there is no order. It is just an observation. We have to wait till tomorrow ( Friday ) , " Gavaskar told TOI on Thursday , where he is commentating on the Deodhar Trophy . " I was contacted just before I came to the commentary box. I made my situation pretty clear as I 'm contracted to BCCI TV. It is then up to the Supreme Court to take a call on it. I would imagine they will take all that into consideration and take a call , " Gavaskar said . But Gavaskar said he will not shy away from the task. " If the court tomorrow still says that I have to be the interim president , I will surely take it up. " Asked about the challenges he might face as the credibility of the BCCI has taken a severe beating , Gavaskar turned philosophical : " As an opening batsman , you do n't know what sort of pitch it is going to be , you do not know what the ball is going to do. I will be approaching this challenge too with a similar mindset , " Gavaskar said . On the many controversies that have plagued the sport of late , he said : " It is quite clear that when we have this type of following ( for cricket ) , you have got to make sure that the followers have the confidence and faith in this sport. While one or two incidents make people feel that there is something wrong in the game , the vast majority of those playing the game are absolutely true and honest. That is the thing we have to look at and not the fact that there has been one or two who have been compromised , " he said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
