IPL 7 suspension could lead to Rs 20k crore loss The author has posted comments on this article John Sarkar , TNN | Mar 28 , 2014 , 03.18AM IST If CSK and RR are forced to quit this edition , reducing to a six-team , home-and-away league , the number of games will drop from 60 to 34 ; almost 45 % fewer games. Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : With the Supreme Court proposing the suspension of Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals from IPL 7 over the spot-fixing and betting scandal , India 's biggest and hottest sports property and BCCI 's most sumptuous cricket tournament faces a potentially unprecedented crisis . If the IPL 7 is fully scrapped , the total loss of business could amount to Rs 20,000 crore , according to consultancy firm KPMG in India , which has estimated that a season of IPL generates combined revenues of around $ 3.2 billion for various sectors. However , if only CSK and RR are made to stay away from this year 's edition , the loss would be around Rs 9,000 crore . If CSK and RR are forced to quit this edition , reducing to a six-team , home-and-away league , the number of games will drop from 60 to 34 ; almost 45 % fewer games . " It would negatively impact viewership , ad inventory , jersey sponsorships , licensing and merchandising deals and channel partnerships. This would also have a cascading impact on hospitality , travel , security and associated sectors. Considering IPL teams generate Rs 1.5-Rs 3 crore per match , the total value lost just on account of gate revenues alone would be around Rs 40-78 crore , " says Jaideep Ghosh , head , sports advisory services at KPMG in India . There could be other issues emerging as well. For instance , players ' payments for the year are scheduled to begin shortly . " Not paying them could create legal complications , " an IPL business insider said. Most teams have already invested in promotional material worth crore of rupees , he added . Industry insiders also mention that PepsiCo , IPL 's title sponsor , might try to renegotiate its deal with the BCCI depending on the final judgment . In 2012 , PepsiCo had beaten telecom major Bharti Airtel to become the league 's title sponsor , with a bid of Rs 396.8 crore for five seasons starting 2013. Interestingly , CSK 's skipper MS Dhoni is also a brand ambassador for the New York-based food and beverage giant . PepsiCo , however , refused to speculate on what could be at this stage. " The matter is sub-judice. We would not like to offer any comment , " said a PepsiCo India spokesperson. Another major sponsor , Vodafone , also declined to comment . Moving the first half of IPL 7 to UAE has also galled companies. " Sponsors are noticeably worried about their investments in the IPL this time. Stadiums in UAE are smaller than the ones here. For starters , instadia sales will be lower , " says Ghosh . Advertising revenues will also be hit significantly if the IPL gets stalled . According to Navin Khemka , managing partner of ZenithOptimedia , a media-buying firm that represents major consumer goods companies , Rs 700 crore to Rs 1,000 crore of advertising revenues will be affected . " A 10-second spot is being sold for Rs 4.5-5 lakh. If the two teams do n't play , with a lesser number of matches , broadcasters will be forced to bring the ad rates down and we could see smaller advertisers coming in , " he says . Prasana Krishnan , business head of Multi Screen Media 's ( MSM ) sports entertainment channel Sony Six , which has the television broadcasting rights of the IPL , sounds wary as he says , " Give us a few more days. We are also watching the space. " IPL teams such as , Delhi Daredevils , Kolkata Knight Riders ( KKR ) and Rajasthan Royals shied away from sharing their views on the impending scenario . While CEO and MD of KKR Venky Mysore and CEO of Delhi Daredevils Hemant Dua were not available for comment , a spokesperson for Rajasthan Royals preferred not to comment when contacted by TOI. " We would prefer to wait and watch before airing our views. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
