IPL fixing scandal : Srinivasan stays silent on Supreme Court observation The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 26 , 2014 , 02.01PM IST Srinivasan 's continued silence has raised speculation that he may not resign immediately. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : BCCI president N Srinivasan , who had a cataract surgery on Wednesday , continued to remain silent on the Supreme Court observation that he should step down for a fair probe into IPL fixing scandal . Srinivasan 's legal counsel P S Raman on Wednesday met him at his residence but declined to speak on the issue . " He ( Srinivasan ) had a cataract operation in the other eye this morning. I have come to meet him because of that. It is only a courtesy call " , he told reporters . When asked specifically whether Srinivasan was contemplating to step down in view of the Supreme Court observation , he refused to comment . It is also learnt that BCCI secretary Sanjay Patel , who was in the United Arab Emirates to oversee the arrangements for the upcoming Indian Premier League , has cut short his visit and is expected to meet Srinivasan during the day to decide the future course of action . Srinivasan 's continued silence has raised speculation that he may not resign immediately but may wait for the hearing to resume on Thursday before taking a final decision . The court , which had on Tuesday asked BCCI chief as to why he was sticking to the chair , had given Srinivasan 48 hours to quit on his own. The court had said if Srinivasan will not quit , they will pass an order for his removal . After going through the contents of a report filed in a sealed cover by apex court-appointed probe panel into the scandal , a bench headed by Justice A K Patnaik said there are " very very serious " allegations made in the report and unless the BCCI president steps down , no fair probe can be conducted . Three of five BCCI vice-presidents -- Shivlal Yadav , Ravi Sawant and Chitrak Mitra -- had put pressure on Srinivasan by saying that he should honour Supreme Court 's observation but the Tail Nadu strong man stuck to his guns . Srinivasan had stepped aside in June 2013 after his son-in-law Gurunath Meiyappan 's name cropped up in the fixing scandal , which had to led to ban on paceman S Sreesanth and his two other Rajasthan Royals colleagues . In his absence , former BCCI chief Jagmohan Dalmiya discharged the duties of the president . However , at the BCCI AGM in September 2013 , Srinivasan was re-elected as president . Supreme Court had appointed a three-member probe panel , led by retired judge Justice Mukul Mudgal to investigate into the fixing saga. The Apex court-appointed panel had replaced BCCI 's own two-man probe panel , which had exonerated Meiyappan of any wrongdoing and its verdict was challenged in the courts . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
