IPL spot-fixing : Mudgal report names Srinivasan , 12 cricketers , SC says The author has posted comments on this article Dhananjay Mahapatra , TNN | Apr 16 , 2014 , 12.03PM IST Srinivasan and Dhoni had challenged the inference that both had lied about Meiyappan 's role in CSK. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The Supreme Court on Wednesday revealed that the Mudgal committee report on IPL spot-fixing has named N Srinivasan and 12 eminent cricketers . The SC said that it is not inclined to order a CBI or SIT probe into the allegations as it would sully the image of reputed cricketers and undermine autonomy of cricket board . Srinivasan and Chennai Super Kings captain MS Dhoni had challenged the Justice Mudgal panel inference that both had lied about Gurunath Meiyappan 's role in the CSK . The SC asked the Mudgal panel to engage a counsel to meet the charge of recording of evidence levelled by Srinivasan and Dhoni . But , the SC is firm that the sealed cover allegation must be investigated thoroughly , given their serious nature . The SC also was firm that till investigation were over , Srinivasan must stay out of the BCCI . Interim BCCI president Sunil Gavaskar has written to the SC saying he can not take a decision on removal or continuance of Sundar Raman as chief operating officer of IPL . The SC decided to continue with Sundar Raman as the IPL has begun . The court also made it clear that IPL 7 would go on , as scheduled , and it also agreed to hear the plea of BCCI and Srinivasan for allowing them to get the tapes of audio recording of interactions of the Mudgal committee with Dhoni and Srinivasan . Srinivasan had on Tuesday knocked the doors of the apex court for reconsidering its interim order keeping him away from the affairs of the Board and sought its permission to resume his office , the tenure of which is till September this year . In an affidavit , he had claimed that he never interfered with disciplinary proceedings or criminal investigation against his son-in-law Gurunath Meiyappan , who is one of the accused in IPL spot-fixing . Srinivasan had also denied allegation of senior advocate Harish Salve that he was guilty of corruption and " cover up " and also expressed his ignorance that the sealed envelope submitted by the Mudgal Committee contains any audio tapes having conversation between two accused of betting -- Vindoo Dara Singh and Meiyappan . ( With inputs from PTI ) Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
