It may not be endgame for Srinivasan The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 29 , 2014 , 02.36AM IST On Friday , the biggest face-saver for Srinivasan came in the form of the SC 's decision to allow Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals to play in the IPL. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : It 's not all gloom and doom in the N Srinivasan camp. The SC may have removed him from the post of BCCI president but the feeling in the corridors of power is that the " remote control " will still stay in the Chennai strongman 's hand . Shivlal Yadav becoming the interim president , for one , is a boost for Srinivasan. Right from the time the controversy erupted , Srinivasan had Yadav in mind as a possible replacement . In fact , the former India off-spinner had been kept as a stand-by and he even chaired the working committee meeting of the BCCI in January when Srinivasan 's mother passed away . To formalize Shivlal 's elevation to the post of interim president , a Special General Meeting ( SGM ) needs to be called but till Friday evening there was no confirmation of a date . " Shivlal was always in Srinivasan 's scheme of things in case of an emergency. This is much better than having an outsider for the post , " a source close to the developments said. The term " outsider " probably meant somebody like Shashank Manohar , who is perceived as 'anti-Srinivasan' . The Srini camp also feels that the order does n't stop him from taking over as ICC chairman. The ICC has already made it clear it is the prerogative of the BCCI to send a representative to head the world body. Most of Board members feel it 's a foregone conclusion that Srinivasan will be the " chosen one " . A source said , " At this moment , I do n't see anybody standing up and questioning Srinivasan 's passage to ICC. Sunil Gavaskar is solely in charge of IPL-related activities and he wo n't interfere in these matters. " On Friday , the biggest face-saver for Srinivasan came in the form of the SC 's decision to allow Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals to play in the IPL . The fear in BCCI circles was that it would have been virtually impossible to hold the tournament without these two teams and Srinivasan 's image would have taken a huge beating . " It involves a lot of money and the associations stand to gain a lot from the tournament. Now that it 's on , Srinivasan should breathe a little easy , " a source said . It 's true that it might be difficult for Srinivasan to come back as the president of BCCI before the September AGM even if he is cleared of the charges by Supreme Court. But that 's still some time away and there will be a lot of activities before that , including the general elections . Some feel that he might seek re-election from East for the next term , even though people close to him believe the Chennai man may be happy with the ICC chairmanship for now. " A lot of factors are involved. We need not jump to conclusions , " a BCCI insider said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
