Mahendra Singh Dhoni should choose country over club The author has posted comments on this article Boria Majumdar , ET Bureau | Mar 31 , 2014 , 09.46AM IST MS Dhoni is a national icon , probably the most recognizable after Sachin Tendulkar. He is 'captain cool ' and the 'messiah ' India has turned to for major trophies. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 He is the Indian cricket captain , and one of the better ones in history. Yet , his name is being bandied around in the Supreme Court for reasons not befitting his position . He 's won two ICC world cups , one Champions Trophy and is on course to challenging for another world cup. So , would it not be prudent to give up his association with all who are tainted , be it the 'company ' or the captaincy of the Chennai Super Kings ? His name was mentioned in court by the petitioner 's counsel , Harish Salve , for providing false evidence. The BCCI 's counsel defended Dhoni staunchly , calling Salve 's allegations reckless and baseless . Salve countered saying that he was only quoting from the committee 's report , and that if his allegations are baseless , then the committee 's report is baseless . Dhoni is a national icon , probably the most recognizable after Sachin Tendulkar. He is 'captain cool ' and the 'messiah ' India has turned to for major trophies . That his name was mentioned in the Mudgal Committee report sullies this image. News channels debated whether his position was untenable on the day of the Supreme Court hearing . Many questioned why Dhoni did what he did and said what he said to the Mudgal Committee. This brings me back to my original contention-an Indian captain should not be involved in such controversy . It is a powerful position in our cricket-crazed country and Dhoni needs to be aware of the sanctity of being captain of the Indian team . We need him for cricket. We need Dhoni to lead the side in the ODI world cup in Australia and New Zealand for us to have a realistic chance of defending the trophy . During a world cup , when his concentration should be on the game , this pressure , which to some extent he has brought upon himself , is clearly unwarranted. We need the Indian captain to focus on the job of winning the T20 World Cup for India . Everything else , which includes captaining a franchise in a domestic competition , is irrelevant. We need the Indian captain to be in the best frame of mind in the most crucial stage of the competition. If that involves giving up on a job and captaincy of his franchise , so be it . The BCCI is the custodian of Indian cricket and MS Dhoni is its best brand. We can not let that brand be tarnished beyond repair . The BCCI 's counsel has already told the media that he will submit the conversation between the Mudgal Committee and Dhoni to the Supreme Court on 16 April , when the case comes up for hearing again. Only then will we know what exactly was said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
