Mudgal panel gets Sourav Ganguly on board The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Jun 9 , 2014 , 09.13AM IST Ganguly is widely regarded as one of the finest cricket brains in the country. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI/KOLKATA : Former India captain Sourav Ganguly confirmed on Sunday that he had agreed to join the Supreme Court appointed Justice ( retd ) Mukul Mudgal committee , which is probing the betting and spot-fixing scandal in IPL 6 . Ganguly will guide the panel only on cricketing affairs. Senior advocates L Nageswara Rao , Niloy Dutta and senior IPS officer B B Mishra are also on the panel , which is likely to submit its report by the end of August . " We had requested Sourav Ganguly to join the IPL probe panel and he has agreed to come on board. Our committee member L Nageswara Rao was not present today , we could n't fix the date of our next meeting. We will soon decide on it , " Justice Mudgal said . Ganguly , who returned to Kolkata on Friday , after holidaying in Europe , confirmed his availability to the panel but refused to comment on the issue . The Supreme Court had directed the probe committee to take a cricketer of 'impeccable integrity ' on board to assist them on the cricketing matters related to IPL betting and spot-fixing . Ganguly was the obvious choice as most of his other contemporaries like Sachin Tendulkar , Rahul Dravid , VVS Laxman and Anil Kumble are all part of various IPL franchises . Ganguly , who played IPL till 2012 , is well conversant with modern-day game and is widely regarded as one of the finest cricket brains in the country . Ganguly has a packed schedule and will leave for England later this month to do television commentary during the five-Test series involving India . Mudgal , however , said that Ganguly is free to pursue his TV assignments . " He is absolutely free to carry on with his media commitments. His job is to help us on cricketing issues and it does not stop him from doing commentary and writing columns , " Mudgal said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
