No question of Srinivasan being active : Shivlal Yadav The author has posted comments on this article Vijay Tagore , Mumbai Mirror | Mar 30 , 2014 , 09.42AM IST I 'm honoured to get this opportunity to serve the board. I will do whatever is best possible from my side so that cricket is well served in India , " said Shivlal Yadav. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 Shivlal Yadav , the man in charge of Indian cricket at the moment , says 'clean ' IPL matches are his priority but insists that the BCCI does n't deserve flak for the recent mess . Excerpts from an interview : How do you see your role as BCCI 's interim president ? I 'm honoured to get this opportunity to serve the board. I will do whatever is best possible from my side so that cricket is well served in India . What does Indian cricket need at this point ? At the outset , we need to have clean IPL matches. There should not be any hanky-panky business. Players should enjoy cricket and play in the true spirit of the game . Has Indian cricket 's image taken a beating ? Definitely , the image of the game in India has taken a beating. But the BCCI 's role in the recent developments is minimal. For unwanted reason , we are getting the stick . There is a perception that you are a BCCI lightweight and N Srinivasan can easily can remote control you . Not at all. The court has made it very clear that he ( Srinivasan ) has to step aside. So there is no question of him being active. I do n't think he will interfere in my work and duties. He also knows that there is a court order and he will not interfere needlessly . Given the recent controversies surrounding the Indian captain MS Dhoni , will you have a dialogue with him ? Of course , I will do that. As the BCCI president , my duty is to address the issues concerning the Indian captain. I ca n't say when I will meet him but I will talk to him soon . Do you agree that Dhoni 's credibility has suffered ? I better not talk about that because I 'm not sure what the issues are. There are only allegations and , at this stage , it will not be prudent on my part to express my opinion. I would like to know more about this matter . You will be the first BCCI president without any ICC duties . It looks that way because I understand Mr Srinivasan is permitted to attend ICC 's meetings. I 'm comfortable with the arrangement . Finally , what is your priority ? We will have to call a meeting of the working committee soon. That is the first step. I 've a few ideas for Indian cricket which I first want to discuss with the working committee before making them public . We will take things forward from there on . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
