Shivlal Yadav to be next BCCI chief ? The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Mar 26 , 2014 , 01.17AM IST According to BCCI sources , Hyderabad 's Shivlal Yadav has been kept as a stand-bye by N Srinivasan himself in case of an emergency . Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : As the year-long drama in the BCCI draws to an end , the question being asked is , who will head the world 's richest cricket body if Narayanswamy Srinivasan steps down from the president 's post following the Supreme Court 's stinging observation on Tuesday . With the apex court on Tuesday threatening to " pass an order " if Srinivasan refuses to stand down voluntarily as BCCI president to facilitate a fair and impartial investigation into alleged betting and spot-fixing in last year 's Indian Premier League ( IPL ) , the administrator 's position in the Board has clearly become untenable. A cross-section of Board members feel that it is the end game for Srinivasan and he is left with no choice but to resign . Should Srinivasan do so , Board members will have to elect a new president , whose writ will run till the next Annual General Meeting ( AGM ) in September. According to the amended Clause 20 ( v ) of the BCCI constitution , if the president 's post falls vacant , the honorary secretary is duty-bound to convene a Special General Meeting ( SGM ) of the Board within 15 days to elect a new president . The BCCI follows the policy of zonal rotation with regard to the president 's post , and this being the final year of South Zone 's three-year term , it will be the prerogative of the six zonal members - Tamil Nadu , Karnataka , Hyderabad , Andhra Pradesh , Kerala and Goa - to nominate a new candidate . Interestingly , a recent amendment to Clause 20 ( iii & iv ) now allows candidates from other zones aspiring to head the BCCI to throw their hats into the ring provided they meet the following norms : Such candidates should be past or present office-bearer or vice-president of the Board and nominated by at least one Full Member of the zone ( South in this case ) whose turn is current as per the principle of zonal rotation and must have attended two annual general meetings representing a Full Member . With the six South Zone units holding nomination rights , all aspirants for the president 's post must woo at least two of them to back their candidature before conjuring up a simple majority - 16 votes -in a 31-member house to win the presidential election and guide the BCCI till the next AGM ( Sept 2014 ) when it will be East Zone 's turn to elect a president . It may be recalled that Srinivasan enjoyed the backing of all six South Zone units at last year 's AGM which saw him being re-elected as president on September 29. If Srinivasan steps down and South Zone units remain united , Hyderabad 's Shivlal Yadav could see himself in the BCCI hot seat uncontested. The former India off-spinner is BCCI 's vice-president from South and fulfils all other criteria for the post. He has his backers in the BCCI but his inability to articulate - especially at International Cricket Council ( ICC ) meetings - may go against him more than his phobia for flying . According to BCCI sources , Yadav has been kept as a stand-bye by Srinivasan himself in case of an emergency. He , in fact , chaired the working committee meeting in January when Srinivasan could n't attend it following his mother 's death. " Yadav has been loyal to Srinivasan. He may not be averse to the idea of the Hyderabad man taking over for a six-month phase , " the source added . The president and secretary represent their respective national cricket boards at the ICC. The BCCI , which calls the shots in the world body , therefore needs a strong voice in Srinivasan 's absence. A large section of Board members are keen to bring back Vidarbha 's Shashank Manohar at the helm of the BCCI . The no-nonsense lawyer from Nagpur has a squeaky clean image and is highly regarded in ICC circles. If Manohar , who was BCCI president from 2008-11 , refuses to be drawn into the fray , and with the likes of Arun Jaitley and Sharad Pawar busy with election campaigns , the BCCI leadership cupboard looks bare . In such a scenario , a power struggle in the BCCI can not be ruled out . ( With inputs from Dwaipayan Datta ) Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
