Srinivasan discusses with experts , continues to remain mum The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 27 , 2014 , 07.34PM IST Srinivasan , who had a cataract surgery on Wednesday , spent most part of the day at home having meetings with his lawyers. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Stung by the Supreme Court 's sweeping proposals to cleanse the game , under-fire BCCI president N Srinivasan is learnt to have had telephonic conferences with his colleagues and legal experts on the future course of action . Srinivasan , who had a cataract surgery on Wednesday , spent most part of the day at home having meetings with his lawyers though he continued to remain mum on the Supreme Court 's observation that he should step down . The Supreme Court on Thursday proposed the replacement of Srinivasan by former captain Sunil Gavaskar and suspension of franchises Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals from IPL 7 till the pendency of the betting and spot fixing case . The apex court also proposed to pass an order barring India Cements officials from getting involved with the functioning of the BCCI . There was speculation that BCCI secretary Sanjay Patel will meet Srinivasan in Chennai during the day but no such meeting took place . " There was a possibility that Patel , who cut short his visit to the UAE , would meet Srinivasan today to discuss the future course of action. But the meeting did not take place , " a BCCI source said . BCCI officials known to be close to Srinivasan have been tightlipped over what he planned to do in view of the Supreme Court proposals which virtually leaves no escape route for the Tamil Nadu strongman . Three of five BCCI Vice Presidents -- Shivlal Yadav , Ravi Sawant and Chitrak Mitra -- had put pressure on Srinivasan by saying that he should honour Supreme Court 's observation but he has still not heeded to their advice . Srinivasan had stepped aside in June 2013 after his son-in-law Gurunath Meiyappan 's name cropped up in the fixing scandal , which had to led to ban on paceman S Sreesanth and his two other Rajasthan Royals colleagues . In his absence , former BCCI chief Jagmohan Dalmiya discharged the duties of the President . However , at the BCCI AGM in September 2013 , Srinivasan was re-elected as President . Supreme Court had appointed a three-member probe panel , led by retired judge Justice Mukul Mudgal to investigate into the fixing saga. The Apex court-appointed panel had replaced BCCI 's own two-man probe panel , which had exonerated Meiyappan of any wrongdoing and its verdict was challenged in the courts . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
