Srinivasan refuses to quit , leaves all in suspense The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 27 , 2014 , 12.36AM IST If Srinivasan does step down , it would leave him with the option of fighting back for the president 's post during the annual general meeting in September. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : N Srinivasan is looking set to stretch it to the last over. Belying expectations in cricket circles that the BCCI president would step down on Wednesday after the scathing comments made by Supreme Court the previous day , Srinivasan did not budge . Srinivasan , who underwent a cataract operation on Wednesday morning , got into a huddle with his legal team and refused to make any announcement despite calls from former officials that he quit to save Indian cricket . BCCI sources said the chief 's lawyers may plead with the Supreme Court on Thursday that Srinivasan was ready to " step aside " — as he did last year — and ask for the inquiry into the IPL betting and spot-fixing scandal to be 'time bound' . If the court relents , he may allow a person nominated by him ( provided all six affiliated units of the south zone agree ) to be interim president and hope to take charge once the investigation is over and the court has cleared him. Such a plan would also allow him to take up the job of International Cricket Council chairman in June . " It 's something he did in June last year , making Jagmohan Dalmiya the caretaker head of the board. At that time , he was running the board by proxy and had even attended an ICC meeting , " a source said . However , several senior BCCI officials feel Srinivasan has n't been left with much of an option but to 'step down ' after the strong observations made by Justice AK Patnaik and Ibrahim Kalifulla . " The only thing that he should do is to vacate the president 's chair , " said former board president A C Muthiah. " The court has been very clear about it and if I were in his position , I would have done that. " If Srinivasan does step down , it would leave him with the option of fighting back for the president 's post during the annual general meeting in September . " But the only problem with that is once a president is out of the hot seat he might not always be in a position to exercise power. And his chairmanship of ICC will also become doubtful , " a source said . The judges had observed on Tuesday that if Srinivasan does n't step down , they would be forced to pass an order on Thursday. In such a situation , the option left for him would be to go into appeal through review or curative petitions . The review is an opportunity to point out that there were some errors in the record which ought to be rectified. It is entirely up to the judges to decide whether to admit a review or not . If the court dismisses the review , Srinivasan can go for a curative petition , which is an application and it can be heard by judges in their chambers. Again , it would be their discretion whether to consider the plea or not . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
