Srinivasan should be shunted out once and for all : Modi The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 25 , 2014 , 07.37PM IST " Kudos to the Honourable Supreme Court for taking the most decisive action to say global cricket , " said Lalit Modi. ( Getty Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Former IPL chairman Lalit Modi on Tuesday hailed the Supreme Court 's observation that N Srinivasan should step down as BCCI chief for a fair probe into the IPL fixing scandal , and said the Tamil Nadu strongman should now be shown the door from the Board once and for all . " Kudos to the Honourable Supreme Court for taking the most decisive action to say global cricket. Finally they have shown the door to Srini , " Modi wrote on his twitter page . " Hope my colleagues in Bcci will now once and forever get rid of this M------ from Chennai who had cemented himself in all governing bodies , " he wrote . After going through the contents of a report filed in a sealed cover by apex court-appointed probe panel into the scandal , a bench headed by Justice A K Patnaik said there are " very very serious " allegations made in the report and unless the BCCI president steps down , no fair probe can be conducted . The beleaguered Srinivasan now appeared isolated even within the Board as three of the five vice-presidents -- Shivlal Yadav , Ravi Sawant and Chitrak Mitra -- asked him to abide by Supreme Court 's observation . Modi , a vocal critic of Srivasan , said the main task before cricket administrators now is to cleanse the game in the wake of the IPL spot-fixing scandal . Kudos to the Honourable Supreme Court for taking the most decisive action to say global cricket. Finally they have shown the door to Srini — Lalit Kumar Modi ( @ LalitKModi ) March 25 , 2014 He said all those connected with India Cements , Srinivasan 's compnay , should be disassociated with the game of cricket . " Big task ahead to win back the hearts and faith of the fans. Second step to rid everyone connected to india cements from cricket , " Modi said . " We had lost a few battles along the way. But winning the war against fixing is the only way forward . " Waiting for Dusshera to happen early this year after the Modern day Ravan is gone ? ? , " he concluded . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
