Sunil Gavaskar says willing to step in as BCCI head The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 27 , 2014 , 03.28PM IST " Mr. N Srinivasan is innocent till proven guilty. But as an opener I am ready for any challenge , " Gavaskar said. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The Supreme Court on Thursday proposed Sunil Gavaskar 's name as replacement for N Srinivasan as BCCI President and the batting legend said he will be " honoured " and " happy " to adhere to the directives of the highest court of the land . " First and foremost , if the highest court suggests something , you have to do so but that has to be on record. I am currently contracted with BCCI as a commentator. But if Supreme Court wants me to do that , I will do it , " Gavaskar said . " When the Supreme Court asks you , there is no question about it , there is not much you can do and I will be happy to do what they ask me to do " , he told NDTV . Gavaskar , a former Indian captain , said he would wait for the final order from the court . " I will consider it , it will be a huge honour that Supreme Court feels I will be good enough to do the job. But we will have to wait and watch until tomorrow in which direction it goes. Let 's not jump the gun , " the former Indian captain said . Asked if he is prepared for the challenge , Gavaskar said : " As an opening batsman , you have to be prepared for all kinds of challenges , you have to play in all kinds of pitches , you are always prepared for a challenge mentally and physically . " Even today , although I am happy to be away from the limelight , I am prepared to do what is needed if the Supreme Court wants me to do so , " he added . The Supreme Court today also proposed the suspension of Chennai Super Kings ( CSK ) along with Rajasthan Royals ( RR ) from IPL 7 till the pendency of the betting and spot fixing case . " It is sad. They were the champions. In 2008 , Rajasthan Royals were the champions and Chennai Super Kings won three times , they have brought a lot of joy , so this observation will make cricket fans sad , " Gavaskar said . Former President Shashank Manohar yesterday demanded the suspension of the IPL 7 till a thorough probe by the CBI is completed but Gavaskar wondered how will it help the game . " In situation like this , you will have different opinions. You will have to sit down and think about it. I do n't know how will it help. When fixing scandal broke out 14 years ago , cricket continued , " Gavaskar said when asked if IPL 7 should be scrapped . " We need to put measures in place. There should be Anti-corruption officials available for every team in IPL , so that young players will know where to approach. " Asked about his views on Srinivasan , who did n't resign even after Supreme Court 's observation , Gavaskar said : " Look , I think we need to understand that everyone is innocent until proven guilty. I would not be able to pass judgement on that. It is not my area. It is a completely different issue on which I have zero experience. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
