Sunil Gavaskar should take over as BCCI president , SC proposes The author has posted comments on this article Dhananjay Mahapatra , TNN | Mar 27 , 2014 , 01.14PM IST Supreme Court recommended that batting legend Sunil Gavaskar takes over as interim president of BCCI. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : In a big setback to BCCI president N Srinivasan , the Supreme Court on Thursday proposed his replacement by Sunil Gavaskar and suspension of Chennai Super Kings ( CSK ) along with Rajasthan Royals ( RR ) from IPL 7 till the pendency of case of betting and spot fixing scandal before it . The court said it is intending to bar CSK , owned by India Cements , which is promoted by Srinivasan , and RR , whose players and team officials are allegedly involved in the scandal , from participating in the IPL 7 tournament slated to begin from April 16 . A bench headed by Justice A K Patnaik proposed the name of veteran cricketer and commentator Sunil Gavaskar to head the Board during the pendency of the case in the apex court . The bench asked the Board to give its response by tomorrow on its proposals after which it will pass an interim order . The bench also proposed to pass an order barring India Cements officials from getting involved with the functioning of BCCI after senior counsel Harish Salve , appearing for Cricket Association of Bihar , pointed out that many such officials are at present part of BCCI team . Salve also raised questions on the conduct of captain of Indian cricket team , MS Dhoni , who is also vice-president of India Cements , saying that he is guilty of corrupt practices . At the beginning of the proceedings , BCCI placed before the apex court its proposal and assured that it will initiate disciplinary proceedings against persons concerned on the basis of Supreme Court-appointed Mudgal committee 's report . BCCI , which was rapped on Tuesday by the apex court , came out with the proposal saying that it agrees to conduct proper probe in the IPL betting and spot fixing scandal . ( With PTI inputs ) Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
