Sunny takes guard at BCCI , but is Srini non-playing captain ? The author has posted comments on this article Dhananjay Mahapatra , TNN | Mar 29 , 2014 , 12.00AM IST After assigning the post of interim cricket board president to Sunil Gavaskar , the court asked him not to work as a commentator during this assignment. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : After BCCI chief N Srinivasan agreed to step aside till completion of the probe into allegations relating to IPL 6 , the Supreme Court on Friday appointed two interim presidents -- Sunil Gavaskar to ensure fair play in this year 's IPL , and seniormost BCCI vice-president Shivlal Yadav for the remaining affairs of the world 's richest cricket board . This did not surprise the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) , given the court 's insistence on Srinivasan 's interim replacement. The order also came as a huge relief considering the SC had a day earlier proposed suspending Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals from this year 's IPL . A bench of Justices AK Patnaik and FMI Kalifulla said , " We are not going to stop this year 's IPL. We are also not suspending CSK or RR from playing in IPL. There is huge fan following for IPL and it should go on. " The bench noted the gravity of betting and spot-fixing allegations made against Gurunath Meiyappan as the CSK team principal and the betting charges against part owners of RR. It also noted that CSK was owned by India Cements of which Srinivasan is the managing director and Meiyappan is his son-in-law . However , in the interim stage , it refused to deal with Cricket Association of Bihar 's plea that the Justice Mukul Mudgal probe panel 's findings on IPL betting and spot-fixing were enough to remove Srinivasan from the top post of BCCI . The bench said , " As we are yet to hear all parties in these matters , we can not at this stage form any opinion and pass orders on the basis of such opinion for removal of Srinivasan from the post of president of the BCCI. " It also clarified that the interim order would not impede his functioning as chairman of International Cricket Council ( ICC ) . Srinivasan is scheduled to take over as ICC head in July . " The IPL 2014 is , however , scheduled to commence on April 16 and we have to pass interim orders to ensure that all those who love cricket continue to watch cricket in IPL 2014 and the matches are played by the players in accordance with the IPL rules , " it said . The court came down strongly on the role of India Cements employees in the functioning of the cricket board. " Till we deliver the judgment , none of the employees of India Cements Limited or its associate companies ( except players or commentators ) will perform any of the duties assigned to them by the BCCI and interim president Gavaskar will have power to engage the services of such persons on whom he has confidence for work in connection with IPL 2014 , " it said . BCCI pointed out that even a cricketer of unimpeachable integrity like Rahul Dravid was an employee of India Cements. The bench said , " Let him also not be associated in the affairs of BCCI for the time being. " Justices Patnaik and Kalifulla took notice of CAB counsel Harish Salve 's allegation that IPL CEO Sundar Raman had given vague answers to the apex court-appointed probe panel about Meiyappan 's official status in relation to CSK. CAB had also sought Raman 's replacement . This was stoutly opposed by BCCI counsel CA Sundaram , who said the IPL was at an advanced stage and replacing him would cause havoc in conduct of the T20 league . The bench said , " We direct that it is for Gavaskar to decide whether Sundar Raman would continue as CEO for IPL 2014 or some other arrangement has to be made in his place. In case of any difficulty , Gavaskar may apply to this court for appropriate orders. " After assigning the post of interim cricket board president to Gavaskar , the court asked him not to work as a commentator during this assignment. It asked BCCI to compensate him for the loss of income. The court said it would commence final hearing on CAB 's petition from April 16 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
