Suspend IPL 7 till CBI probe , says Shashank Manohar The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Mar 27 , 2014 , 12.49AM IST Share on Linkedin Shashank Manohar also came down heavily on the BCCI for its decision to shift the first half of IPL 7 to UAE in spite of its earlier decision not to play matches there following allegations of rampant match-fixing by bookies based there. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : Former Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) president Shashank Manohar on Wednesday dropped a bombshell , urging the cricket board to suspend the seventh edition of the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) and take all necessary steps to restore the public 's faith in the glamorous T20 tournament that has been rocked by a series of betting , spot-fixing and match-fixing allegations in recent times . " Considering the latest developments in the BCCI , it is my considered opinion that until the faith of the people in the integrity of the game is restored , the IPL tournament for the year 2014 should be suspended . " The Board members should remind themselves that money/profits is neither the aim nor the objective ( of the cricket body ) . The primary duty is to promote a clean game of cricket , " Manohar said in a statement . The Nagpur-based lawyer , who headed the BCCI from 2008 to 2011 , reiterated his call to cleanse the IPL and stressed on the need to entrust the CBI with the task of investigation . " I had said earlier that all IPL matches should first be investigated. Only then can all the erring parties be punished and the clean-up initiated. What has been lately revealed could well be the tip of the iceberg. I feel that a thorough probe needs to be done by CBI as the canvas of the activities extends throughout the country , " Manohar said in his statement . Known to be a hard-nosed administrator with a squeaky-clean image , Manohar also came down heavily on the BCCI for its decision to shift the first half of IPL 7 to UAE in spite of its earlier decision not to play matches there following allegations of rampant match-fixing by bookies based there . For the record , India have not played any match in the UAE since 2000 after investigations into world cricket 's first major match-fixing scandal revealed that a number of international matches may have been fixed by the bookies operating out of Dubai . " Many years back , a conscious decision was taken by the BCCI to abstain from matches in the Middle-East in view of certain information regarding rampant betting and match-fixing. As far as I know , that decision has not been revoked. Due to the upcoming Lok Sabha elections , the decision to shift IPL matches to the Middle-East will further tarnish the image of the tournament , " Manohar said . Srinivasan should have resigned long back , says Bindra NEW DELHI : Former BCCI president I S Bindra feels current chief N Srinivasan should have resigned long time back and said it was his continuation at the helm of affairs which brought Indian cricket to a " sorry state " . " My view was very clear from last one year. In the first meeting in Chennai I had said the same thing.He decided to continue and now it has reached a stage where the Supreme Court had to intervene. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
