Ishant must step up during England tour : Rahul Dravid The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Jun 18 , 2014 , 06.47AM IST Dravid felt it was finally time for Ishant to play the role of a frontline bowler. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Before packing their kits for England , India 's batsmen would do well to have a chat with Rahul Dravid . In 2002 , Dravid amassed 602 runs , inclusive of three hundreds as India drew the series 1-1 . Nine years later , 'Mr. Dependable, ' in the twilight of his career , amassed 461 runs to stand out as the sole bright spot on a disastrous tour . So what makes a batsman flourish in England ? " You have to play according to the conditions there , rather than say I 'm going to play this way. The conditions keep changing , and you have to choose your shots accordingly. Sometimes , the ball will swing , and at times , the wicket becomes flat. So , you have to weigh these things and play according to the situation , " Dravid told TOI in an exclusive interview at a promotional event for Gillette on Tuesday . " I already chat with the boys quite a bit. I 'll be doing commentary for the first three Tests , so I 'll be around , " he said . Dravid has big hopes from India 's young batting brigade. " In the last couple of series , they have shown that they can bat well abroad. This tour offers a great chance for them to grow as cricketers. If you get set and bat well , England is a great place to score runs. It 's important to get into form early on into the tour. It will be interesting to see how they cope , " he said . " The challenge will be India 's ability to take 20 wickets. They must find a way to do that. That 's the big challenge for sub-continental teams when we travel abroad. If India can find a couple of bowlers who can step up , then we are in for a great series , " Dravid said . The former India skipper felt it was finally time for seamer Ishant Sharma to play the role of a frontline bowler . " Our attack has potential. This should be Ishant 's time to step up , especially because Zaheer Khan is also not around. If the conditions allow , India can play both the spinners , R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja. If the summer is dry , and the wickets turn on the fourth and the fifth day , spinners do come into play in England , " Dravid said , adding a few words of caution too . " England offers good conditions to bowl in , but your length must be right. If you bowl wrong lengths there , you can get punished badly. The Indian seamers will have to pitch the ball and up and make it swing. " On skipper MS Dhoni , he said , " He 'd have learnt a lot from lessons last time. He has a good side this time. In the last two series , he came close to winning a Test abroad. India had their chances , but they just could n't grab them and that would have taught Dhoni something. This might be a good time to make that jump and win a few Tests abroad. That 'll give confidence to this young team. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
