I still aim to play in the World Cup : Maharoof The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Sep 11 , 2014 , 01.43PM IST Maharoof still hopes to revive his international career. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : He was a regular in the Sri Lankan team in the early and mid 2000s before losing his spot. All-rounder Ferveez Maharoof , who impressed everyone with his accurate seam bowling and hard-hitting down the order , especially in limited overs cricket , is now preparing to represent Sri Lanka T20 champs , Southern Express , in the CLT20 , which begins with the qualifiers at Raipur from September 13 . In an exclusive interview with TOI , the 30-year-old Maharoof spoke about how he still hopes to revive his international career . Excerpts : How confident are you about your team 's prospects in the CLT20 ? We have prepared hard for the last one month for this event , and are ready to take on the rest of the world . You will surely miss Lasith Malinga bowling from the other end . We will all miss him at Southern Express , but then this is a part and parcel of the game . You played consistently for Sri Lanka in the initial part of your career before fading out. What happened ? I was unlucky , as most pacers are , to suffer injuries that pegged me back big time. However , I have been doing well in domestic cricket for the last couple of years now , and my aim is to make it to the World Cup squad somehow. The Lankan fast bowling stocks look good presently , but I still have n't given up. It is a dream to play in the World Cup . You played for the Delhi Daredevils for three seasons ( 2008-2010 ) . How was that experience ? It was a dream come true to play with Glenn McGrath , who was my hero , my idol. It was a highlight of my career. I 'm sure the Indian bowlers will gain a lot by receiving tips from him. It was a challenge to bowl at Virender Sehwag , a dear friend , in the nets too ! I really hope he makes a comeback in the Indian team. I 'd love to be his teammate again ! I grew as a cricketer in DD . You destroyed the Windies in 2006 Champions Trophy and took a hat-trick against India in 2010 Asia Cup. Can you repeat such spells ? Those were the high points of my career. You ca n't bowl such spells every day. It 's just about a particular day , when everything goes right . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
