Orthodox batting is over-rated : Kevin Pietersen The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | May 5 , 2014 , 10.31AM IST The swagger intact , Pietersen regaled the media with one-liners about England 's FIFA World Cup prospects. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : This has been a tumultuous year already for Kevin Pietersen . The Test door seems forever shut on this batsman of resplendent skills but cricket 's latest itinerant star does n't like to see himself as just another T20 gun for hire. It does n't seem like he is fishing for sympathy regarding the England situation either . The swagger intact , Pietersen regaled the media with one-liners about England 's FIFA World Cup prospects ( " I know they 'll be really bad with penalties " ) and brushed aside his indiscreet tweets on new England cricket coach Peter Moores and ousted batting coach Graham Gooch ( " that was funny , tongue-incheek " ) at an Adidas-FIFA event to choose flagbearers for a World Cup pre-quarters match in Brazil . Later , he sat down with TOI to talk about his future prospects , a possible coaching career and India 's chances in England. Excerpts.. . You have said you are n't one for regrets , but you must be bitter about the England experience.. . I would n't say I 'm bitter or disappointed. Not having a national team to play for is n't a good situation to be in , but I do feel I am still featuring in top-class cricket in the IPL . The England door seems firmly shut , especially with Peter Moores back for a second spell as coach ( KP had a run-in with Moores back when the batsman was England captain ) .. . I do n't know , I do n't know where I am going to play more Tests. Fingers crossed , I will play. Right now my focus is the IPL. I am also eagerly waiting for the KP Academy which is coming up in Dubai , and it will be a chance to give something back to the game. Look , I have played 104 Tests so there is a fair bit of knowledge to share . The IPL offers you a chance to showcase your flamboyant , unorthodox side , which is a big part of your batting. With more T20s being played , is an orthodox approach becoming passe for the younger lot of batsmen ? Orthodoxy is over-rated , definitely. Sure , you must have a solid defence but I think a lot of coaches over-emphasize on technique. My academy is going to be different. It 's going to be based on the way I play , and also on the way a kid plays when he comes in. I 'm not going to change his game. I want to coach individuals with unique talent to fulfill that talent , and not try to change anybody or teach him how his foot must be in line with the ball. But there are a few key things to batting which are really important , in terms of the head and not really your foot movement , which I think I want to drill into the kids. It 's not going to be technique-based coaching , but more about discovering your inner style of play . Which county , Nottinghamshire or Hampshire , played a bigger part in your cricketing development ? Nottinghamshire , definitely. When you play county cricket and you 're on the road and on the circuit you learn about your game , you think about your game and you really grow as a human being. Those first few years of first-class cricket in England really , really set the foundation for what I 've been able to achieve. It gave me a lot of belief. A lot of credit goes to Clive Rice , who was coach then . The Indian cricket board does n't seem inclined to send its players for longish county stints anymore.. . I know , and I speak to the Indian players a lot about it. I would definitely advise them to get a county stint under their belt if they can. I 've been talking to Dinesh Karthik , and I think he 's desperate to play county cricket. But I do n't think Indian batsmen are that valued in the county circuit anymore , because of the swinging conditions and grassy wickets . Is that one of the reasons Indian batsmen have been floundering abroad ? For India to be successful away from home , their key players must go and play abroad. But with the kind of schedules players have got now , there 's no chance they can do it. So it boils down to preparing the kind of wickets at home that you might get at a particular place abroad , and learn how to secure your own wicket on those kind of pitches . Can India do well on the upcoming tour to England ? They are a young side. England are also rebuilding. India need to score some runs. They have Pujara , Virat and Vijay who can bat long and have the technique as well. England will miss ( spinner ) Graeme Swann , who was phenomenal. He is a huge loss for England . Will you advise more long-form cricket for youngsters , or are you okay with a more T20 grounding ? The world is getting faster. We want faster cars , faster mobile services , we want shorter games of cricket , shorter games of tennis. T20 is here to stay . What about ODIs ? I reckon One-day cricket is going to suffer in the long term. It has for a few years now. That 's because it 's incredibly boring at times , especially from the 15th to the 40th over . These days even T20s have middle overs.. . Yeah , they do ! We even plan for that ! See what I mean. About ODIs , I ca n't bear to watch them. They are so boring. Unless there 's a Chris Gayle or Virat or MS Dhoni batting , I 'm not watching it ! Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
