Responding to pressure biggest challenge for Indian players : Richard Hadlee The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Apr 10 , 2014 , 05.49AM IST " New Zealand played well in their own conditions. We challenged India and got it right. We were in some bit of form , " said New Zealand great Sir Richard Hadlee. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 In his playing days , Richard Hadlee redefined the capabilities of New Zealand cricket. Methodical , astute and intense , Hadlee 's reputation as one of the greatest bowlers of all time — and one of the best all-rounders of his era — was built , he says , brick by brick , through judicious approach and a single-minded quest for technical perfection. Since then , Hadlee has grayed , and now refers to himself , much to his own amusement , as " a wily old man " . Hadlee took time out to sip some tea and chat with TOI during a brief visit to Delhi as brand ambassador for New Zealand Cricket ahead of next year 's 50-over World Cup. His take on the game is razor sharp , as we discovered.. . India does n't seem to be having a good time in Tests , in New Zealand or elsewhere.. . New Zealand played well in their own conditions. We challenged India and got it right. We were in some bit of form . And India were not so good.. . It 's very difficult to comment on why India are n't doing well in Tests. Number one , to be an Indian player , you have to be very good , because of the competition from within. Number two , I think responding to the pressures is the biggest challenge for any Indian cricketer right now. Because you 're a hero one day and you 're totally pulled down the next . Is it the opposite in NZ ? Maybe there 's some public apathy ? India has always had a habit of traditionally producing some great cricketers , because you have a huge mass of players to choose from. In India you tend not to persevere with players except in rare cases. If somebody is not performing , somebody else will come in and perform even better. We do n't have that luxury. When it comes to talent pool we ca n't compete with India . Has the constant shuffle between formats made it difficult for players to switch gears ? That 's the nature of modern cricket. Tactically , too , the captain has to think differently. Look , T20 is just a form of cricket — I personally do n't think it 's the real form — in which anything can happen on the day. Form guides do n't matter . So what happens when you play longer formats ? Players have to adjust and adapt in skill-sets , tactics and theories. One is very high risk — T20s — then ODIs , which are medium risk , and then Tests , with little risk but more testing on technique. Some people do suffer technically when they 're playing a lot of T20 or ODIs. Some batsmen run out of form because of the risks they have to take in the shorter versions. They become technically exposed when they play Tests . Can all three formats co-exist for long ? They must co-exist. Cricket needs all three formats to survive , without compromising Test cricket too much. A lot of people do like Tests. It 's about manipulating an opponent 's skill and psyche. It takes time to do that. It 's like chess on a field. But you also need sponsorship and revenue. You have player wages , cost of travel and accommodation to take care of. You wo n't get that out of Tests. TV has huge influence too on popularity . Your take on the future ? You will find more and more specialist bowlers , specialist Test batsmen , specialist ODI players , separate teams. Player management will become a huge decisionmaking thing . We do n't see bowlers with the longevity of a Hadlee or a Kapil Dev anymore , even with all the modern support staff around.. . Maybe we were just exceptional ( laughs ) . But seriously , we had good technique in the way we trained. Not much gym work. General running for endurance , sprint running for stamina and sharpening up , and bowling , bowling and more bowling. That 's a very efficient , reliable and consistent technique , both in training and bowling. You have to get the ball in the right places time and time again . So the modern methods do n't always work ? I respect sports science , sports psychology , doctors , trainers , physios. But these are just tools that the players can use. I simply bowled and my body took shape from bowling. Today you can pull some weights and you come out as a different person. But does that make you a different bowler ? You 're shortening and strengthening your muscles in the gym but for a bowler , the main thing is elasticity of muscles. A player is still responsible for what he does to himself . What 's in store for the 2015 World Cup ? For starters , there will be a common visa for those visiting Australia and New Zealand for the games. We are expecting almost 50,000 tourists in New Zealand . HADLEE 'S TAKE FAVOURITE BOWLER DALE STEYN : He 's wonderful , outstanding. Very clever , very fast , wonderful skills. His strike rates are phenomenal pretty well across all forms. You can see it in his eyes. He has that ability to put fear into batsmen . FAVOURITE ALL-ROUNDER WHERE ARE THEY ? Maybe Jacques Kallis , till he retired. Probably the best ever , statistically. He was n't flamboyant like Sobers. He was methodical , calculating , professional. Magnificent . BEST BATSMAN VIRAT KOHLI : Very controlled , looks good , does n't look to be rushed , plays all around the wicket , has some powerful shots. He takes the game to the bowler , intimidates him. He is very wristy too . FAVOURITE KIWI KANE WILLIAMSON : One of the best batsmen to come out of NZ and in time , he will be one of the greatest. Still very young . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
