The law of averages is over-rated : Gautam Gambhir The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Jun 7 , 2014 , 09.16AM IST Life has been intense and buoyant these past few weeks for Gambhir. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : It 's early afternoon on a Friday and Gautam Gambhir is finding it hard to destress. Life has been intense and buoyant these past few weeks , what with his team winning the IPL after coming back from a horror start to the league , a comeback to the Indian Test team and the birth of daughter Aazeen . " She has brought a calm I never experienced before. But I love action. I ca n't sit idle , " he said when TOI caught up with the India opener and Kolkata Knight Riders captain for a tete-e-tete at his residence . Excerpts.. . T20 has been good to you. The World T20 in 2007 paved the way for a long stint in international cricket , and now a second win as KKR captain has coincided with a Test recall.. . I do n't see the IPL as a platform for Test selection. I think T20 is not a format where you should start analyzing your cricket , your batting or form. In T20 , you go out there to be aggressive from ball one. It 's unfair when people talk about a player being 'out of form ' or 'in form ' in the Twenty20 context . Your captaincy has come in for praise. What did you do differently ? You need to know the individuals well. You have to deal with each one differently , especially in the IPL. If you are honest , transparent and confident , it rubs off. You need an atmosphere where a player can be himself , not only on the field but off it. In T20 , you must learn to stop holding back. T20 is all about self-expression . Is self-expression more important than T20 strategizing , then ? More times than players will admit. That is from where the firepower and flair - the X-factor - comes in. The method comes from the strategizing. That 's where the support staff excelled. Manish Pandey , Robin Uthappa , Suryakumar... it 's important for all of these players to be themselves off the field in order to give their best on it . You began with three ducks. Did the prospect of dropping yourself ever arise ? Definitely. Captaincy is about being selfless. It was a test of self-belief. I think captaincy duty kept me from over-analyzing my batting at that point. I 'm not that kind of individual who will shield himself because he 's not doing well. After the ducks , I did n't want to bat at No. 3 against Punjab ( he scored just one run ) , but I did. That did n't turn out well and I was back to opening and Manish Pandey was back at No. 3 . Why the focus on chasing with such a formidable bowling unit ? The collapse in the Rajasthan game started messing with our minds. We were chasing 170 and were 121/0 before we lost 6 wickets for 2 runs or something. We thought we were chokers. Everyone started telling me we should stop chasing but I knew the 'chokers ' tag would haunt us. That 's why I stuck with Yusuf. I trusted him to chase down anything ( Yusuf scored 72 off 22 balls against Sunrisers and powered KKR to No. 2 on the table ) . We had to get that tag out. When we went into the innings break in the IPL final , everyone believed we could chase. It was all down to the decision to stick with Yusuf and chase . Nine consecutive wins... the law of averages seems to have taken a backseat in KKR 's case... . ( Laughs ) What is it ? The law of averages is over-rated. I do n't believe in it. You walk on to a cricket field every time to win. Otherwise why keep score ? When we started winning , a lot of people wondered when the bubble would burst. But it was n't a bubble . You do n't have happy memories of the last tour to England. Tell us about the concussion you suffered.. . It was tough. People were talking a lot of rubbish about how I ran away. I was trying to catch Pietersen at the Oval and fell backwards on my head. There was blurred vision and nausea but I batted both innings and played out 62 balls in the first when I could n't see the ball well. No one thought about that. I was even having trouble walking down the stairs. It took me more than a month to recover . Pujara said it will be tough to switch to Test mode after IPL. You 've opened in all three formats before... . It is difficult. We went to Bangladesh once after the IPL and me and Viru were hitting every ball in a 50-over match until we suddenly came to our senses. The preparation starts from the nets , it does n't start on match day. After IPL , it will be difficult for you to keep leaving balls or play straight. It 's a change which starts in the mind. A quality player can never take a nets session lightly. T20 is all about taking chances which are not there -an edge goes flying and you clap. In Tests , you 're out . What will India have to do right to make an impression in England ? Start aggressively and grab the lead early. It 's all about starting well. It sets the tone for the entire tour. You have to make things happen in the first Test. It 's good we 're going some days before the series starts. It 's a long tour so you do n't want to be chasing , you want to be leading . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
