There is only one boss , the captain : Shastri The author has posted comments on this article Times Now | Aug 22 , 2014 , 11.39AM IST Shastri said he was like an " elder brother " who would try to inject positivity in the Indian team. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 Ravi Shastri , India 's new director of cricket , has been roped in for the one-day series in England following the MS Dhoni-led squad 's horror run in Tests . Speaking to Times Now on his immediate plans for the team 's revival , Shastri said he was like an " elder brother " who would try to inject positivity in the team , and that MS Dhoni would continue to be in charge . Excerpts : Are you the final decision maker for cricketing affairs ? My job is to oversee proceedings. There is a coaching staff where Duncan ( Fletcher ) will be the head. My job will be to ensure that everything runs smoothly. I have to give inputs on cricketing aspects and all the coaching staff will report to me. There is only one boss in the team here and that boss is the captain of the team and his name is Mahendra Singh Dhoni . Can you get the team to regroup in such a short time ? It should n't be difficult. The reason I am here is because I believe in this team and I know they are a very talented bunch. I need to get their minds clear and get them in a state of mind to go out and play fearless , positive cricket Does Dhoni still have the steam to take this team forward ? Absolutely. You get few mentally stronger characters than Dhoni. This is his toughest challenge and I think he will respond to this in a strong manner . Where did it go wrong for India in the Tests ? They lack the experience. After being one-up in the series , India got defensive. The tactic and plan of going in with an extra batsman instead of picking a fifth bowler hurt us. We also failed to apply pressure on England. This will be a learning experience . Kohli and Pujara 's failure to adapt was shocking.. . It surprised everybody. But you saw a champion exponent of swing and seam in James Anderson. He bowled beautifully on tracks that really helped fast bowlers. Broad and Anderson as a combination have taken 600 wickets and they really gave the Indian top order serious problems. If these bowlers were to bowl to the English batsmen , I do n't see them getting more than 200 runs . You referred to the likes of Kohli , Pujara , Dhawan as the glam boys of Indian cricket ( in a column for TOI ) ... . Yes , I can do anything outside the field in my role as media operator. My job now is to direct and manage this team. I am their elder brother. You know when you are the elder brother of the team , I will just give it a flick when such questions are asked . What are your immediate plans ? I have had a chat with the captain. I have met him and members of the team management. They are in a good state of mind and there does n't seem to be any problem within the team . Should Indian cricketers be allowed to play county cricket ? Yes. It is very important that a young player , if he gets an opportunity to play county cricket , should be allowed to do so. It has helped me , it has helped many international players. If you look at the great teams of the past , like the West Indies team of the 1980s , every player used to be playing county cricket. Even a lot of the Australians played county cricket . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
