AB de Villiers redefines alphabet of batting Vedam JaishankarVedam Jaishankar,TNN | May 6 , 2014 , 11.09 AM IST De Villiers 's blitzkrieg against Sunrisers Hyderabad was an exhibition of pure cricketing genius . RELATED BANGALORE : AB de Villiers ' incredible onslaught on the Sunrisers Hyderabad bowling on Sunday was the stuff legends are made of . It was very timely too and a delirious crowd ensured that the Chinnaswamy Stadium reverberated with their full-throated chants of 'ABD , ABD' . Intuitively they realized that AB 's unfolding brilliance on the night was not mere batsmanship but an exhibition of cricketing genius . Two years ago at this same venue , RCB required 39 runs from three overs , two of which were to be bowled by Deccan Chargers ' Dale Steyn. De Villiers suddenly changed gears and blasted Steyn for 23 runs in the 18th over . A hook , a loft over covers and that incredible one-kneed scoop to fine leg , all for sixes punctured Steyn. Steyn had never experienced anything like that before. But de Villiers was to do it again - in Australia against Mitchell Johnson , and again , on Sunday , against Steyn . " He is the most difficult batsman to bowl to in limited overs cricket , " said his teammate Harshal Patel who witnessed the mayhem from close quarters. " You could bowl decent yorkers to good batsmen and get away with it. But to AB , even if you bowl a perfect yorker , you can still go for six. " AB , who played for Delhi Daredevils in the IPL initially , was purchased by RCB for $ 1.1m four seasons ago. Soon Bangalore 's club golfers were mesmerized by his golfing prowess. But de Villiers had always been a sportsman of colossal talent. In his teens he was a scratch golfer. In tennis he was ranked South Africa 's number two junior player . But AB who loved the spirit of team sport turned to rugby , hockey and cricket instead. Although he excelled in all three , he finally opted to concentrate on cricket . The first thing noticeable about de Villiers ' batting is that he is very still at stance. The balance is perfect and till the last minute he gives nothing away to the bowler. If the bowler second guesses him , good luck to him. But most of the time it is the other way around . On Sunday , at the finish , Bhuvaneshwar Kumar bowled two excellent yorkers wide of the off stump. The second was almost a wide but the umpire did not think so. De Villiers let go of the next delivery expecting it to be called a wide. It was n't. Kumar while walking back to the top of his run-up surreptitiously asked the long-off fielder to get straighter , probably expecting his yorker in line with the stumps to be straight driven . De Villiers caught on immediately and when Kumar fired his yorker on the off stump he was ready. He reverse paddled the ball to the third man fence to mock the bowler . Then came that massacre of Steyn. He hooked the first ball for a six , hammered the next flat into the straight sight screen , took singles of the following two deliveries . It was then that Darren Sammy and Steyn , after some consultation positioned the tall West Indian at the top of the inner circle at mid-off. De Villiers instead of punching that delivery deftly lobbed it high over Sammy for another boundary . The last delivery was sensationally scooped over fine leg for a huge six. AB had stayed still right till the moment Steyn was in his delivery stride. He then moved with lightning speed to the off , went down on a knee and scooped that six. It was the stroke of a true genius . In his mind 's eye he had already visualized the outcome. The footwork , balance , hand-eye co-ordination and bat-speed all came successfully together in a blur . Genius is what genius does ! DE VILLIERS : ULTIMATE SPORTING MACHINE Shortlisted for jr national hockey squad , shortlisted for jr national football squad , captain of South Africa jr Rugby , holds six South Africa school swimming records , the fastest 100m time in South Africa junior athletics , a member of South Africa jr Davis Cup team , National badminton U-19 champion , has a golf handicap of scratch , received a national medal from Mandela for a science project . IN THE IPL : M 80 Runs 1824 Hs 105 * Ave 35.76 SR 135.21 . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = RCB,Mitchell Johnson,IPL,Dale Steyn,AB de Villiers Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
