Akram sees KKR in final four in IPL 7 PTI | Apr 28 , 2014 , 03.44 PM IST READ MORE IPL | wasim akram | Vinay Kumar | Morne Morkel | Kolkata Knight Riders RELATED NEW DELHI : Encouraged by the presence of many " team players " , Kolkata Knight Riders bowling coach Wasim Akram has expressed confidence that his side will make it to the final four in the IPL as they have a " good enough " bowling attack . " We just went for the players we thought are team players and obviously individual match winners , Yusuf is there , Shakib-al-Hasan , Robin Uthappa , Andre Russell. All these guys are team people and a team sport needs players who support each other when things are bad , " Akram said in an interview . " There will be a rough time. You 'll lose couple of games on the trot , which will happen , it 's a long tournament. But , it was decision made by the management , we want boys who could actually be good team players apart from being individual match winners , " the former Pakistani skipper said on whether KKR had consciously stayed away from star players this time . Asked whether he sees KKR in the final four in this year 's edition of the Indian Premier League , he said , " I would love to. Yes I can see KKR. I would like to see KKR in the finals. We have good enough team , we have good enough bowling , fielding has been consistent. So , yes , there is always a chance. " Akram , who was part of the KKR dug-out during three IPL editions from 2010 to 2012 , said his job was to talk to the bowlers , talk to the captain about strategy and give confidence to all the batsmen . " With my experience in cricket , I have played like 21 years internationally. I have ideas to give to them and they are enjoying. Its early dose in this tournament but everybody seems to be enjoying each others company. That 's always a good sign before a big tournament , " he said . Akram said KKR had a " good enough " bowling attack. " We have Morne Morkel , Pat Cummins as overseas players and also Veer Pratap , Vinay Kumar and Umesh Yadav , " he said . Akram heaped praise on Indian paceman Yadav , saying , " I think Umesh Yadav is phenomenal , he 's got pace and still ca n't understand why he 's not playing for India. It still baffles me. " Akram opined that spinners are more handy in the T20 format as the batsmen has to take risks to go after a tweaker . The IPL 's first leg is being played in the UAE and Akram said the tournament was " definitely different " with different grounds and different crowds . However , he said the buzz was still the same with packed stadiums and everybody enjoying the game thoroughly . Commenting on India 's bowling attack for the 2015 World Cup , Akram said , " Its another year to go , but yes , I suppose Shami is there , Bhuvneshwar is there , but I reckon with Umesh in the side , the bowing attack will be complete for the 2015 World Cup. " He also said Irfan Pathan can be handy tool in Australia if he performs well in the IPL and and in the first class season ahead . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = IPL,wasim akram,Vinay Kumar,Morne Morkel,Kolkata Knight Riders Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
