READ MORE Kings XI Punjab | IPL | Glenn Maxwell | Delhi Daredevils | David Miller RELATED NEW DELHI : Glenn Maxwell has been named the 'Big Show ' by his teammates Down Under. With him in the middle , fans can expect plenty of fireworks . The 'Big Show ' put on a magnificent display of power-hitting on his first appearance for his new franchise Kings XI Punjab , hitting a 43-ball 95 to silence critics who dubbed him a 'million-dollar bust ' in the last IPL season . Maxwell told TOI on Saturday that he was n't bothered by any 'tags'. Excerpts from an interview.. . You have been nicknamed the 'Big Show'. Does that put extra pressure on you ? The nickname has been given by some of my Australian teammates but it is not a big distraction. I do n't take any extra pressure due to it. It 's a tag that is popular in Australia but I am playing in IPL , so I do n't get too bothered by it . The situation you walked into was similar to the one you faced against Pakistan in the World T20. Were you better prepared for the situation this time ? The batting situation was definitely similar and we were chasing a big total yesterday too. I went there and decided to hit out at as many ball as I could. I managed to set up a good partnership with ( David ) Miller and the aim was to score off every delivery. Like I have said earlier , attack is the best form of defence for me . You are capable of hitting the ball in a 360 degree arc. How many shots do you have in your mind before facing a ball ? Usually before a ball is bowled , I only have one shot in my mind. If the ball is n't there to be hit in the pre-meditated area , I 'll look for a different shot. Thankfully yesterday I got most of the balls in my zone and my pre-meditation worked. I always back myself against spin bowling — no matter who is bowling. I always look to put the pressure back on the bowler . Did you have a point to prove to your critics coming into IPL-7 ? I do n't play for critics but look to perform the best I can. I do n't think I got to play two consecutive games for Mumbai Indians , and for Delhi Daredevils I played a couple of years back when I had no real idea how to play in T20 cricket. This time I have come into IPL with good form under my belt throughout the year and I 'll try to make the most of it by contributing as much as I can . Would you say that the 95 you scored on Friday was your most memorable knock ? I would n't call it my most memorable knock. I have played much better and also timed the ball much better on other occasions. Yesterday , I got a bit out of shape a couple of times and had a bit of luck on my side. It is , however , a good way to start a tournament , to have some luck going your way . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Kings XI Punjab,IPL,Glenn Maxwell,Delhi Daredevils,David Miller Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
