Away from game , Tendulkar still hogs the limelight K Shriniwas Rao K Shriniwas Rao,TNN | Apr 17 , 2014 , 12.05 AM IST READ MORE Shah Rukh Khan | Sachin Tendulkar | Nita Ambani | Mumbai Indians | IPL 7 RELATED Sachin Tendulkar may not be a part of the Mumbai Indians squad but as an 'icon ' he is making his presence felt at the team 's training sessions. He is even a part of dressing-room strategizing. Tendulkar sat with his 'former teammates ' in the dugout too , along with the other coaching staff. The master batsman 's MI jersey , however , is lacking sponsors . While all other MI jerseys worn by players are packed with sponsorship credits , Tendulkar has a plain blue jersey which only sports owner Nita Ambani 's 'Education For All ' campaign . No team owners in the dugout Team owners will not be sitting in the dugout , next to it or even anywhere around it. A designated area for team owners has been created at all venues here , some distance away from the dugout occupied by players , coaches and the immediate support staff. On Wednesday evening , Kolkata Knight Riders owner Shah Rukh Khan sat next to Sheikh Nahyan Bin Mubarak , the minister of sport and youth development in Abu Dhabi and the man responsible for the IPL coming to the UAE. Mumbai Indians team owner Nita Ambani , meanwhile , sat in a separate enclosure with her franchise officials and other supporters . Little to smile at gala dinner The gala dinner hosted at the Emirates Palace in Abu Dhabi to welcome the IPL in UAE was a strictly-on-invitation , VIP affair. One just could n't get through without the right accreditation , thanks to strict local security. That is how the IPL wanted it to be. N Srinivasan 's affidavit in the Supreme Court made all the news in the cricket circles in UAE and the possible after-effects of it gripped all those involved here. Nobody wanted any unnecessary conversation and news emerged that the 'opening dinner ' had turned out to be a 'pretty boring ' one. Only the BCCI , which did n't have to shell out a single penny thanks to the Royal Family hosting the event , had something to smile about . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Shah Rukh Khan,Sachin Tendulkar,Nita Ambani,Mumbai Indians,IPL 7 Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
