Bhuvneshwar ready to swing it with Steyn Solomon S Kumar Solomon S Kumar,TNN | Apr 17 , 2014 , 12.23 AM IST READ MORE Sunrisers Hyderabad | IPL 7 | Dale Steyn | Bhuvneshwar Kumar | Alan Donald RELATED HYDERABAD : Not many get a chance to rub shoulders with two of the greatest exponents of fast bowling but Bhuvneshwar Kumar is going to do just that. After spending time with legendary South African Alan Donald during his stint with the Pune Warriors India , Bhuvi is now sharing the dressing room with another South African great , Dale Steyn , as he gears up to play for his new franchisee , Sunrisers Hyderabad. The 24-year-old Meerut lad spoke to ToI from Dubai about the team and his experiences with the South African legends. Excerpts : New season : I am all set for the new season. It 's a new franchisee for me and hence I am all excited about it. I am confident that it 's going to be a great experience to turn out in a Sunrisers Hyderabad jersey. The team has done well in its first season and I am looking forward to help them do even better this year . Learning from Donald : It was an amazing experience for me personally as Donald is a living legend. In his heydays , he was one of the most feared fast bowlers and hence it was great to have him as a coach at the Pune Warriors India. The great thing about Donald was that he would never try to impose his views on you. Instead he would focus on your strengths and help you iron out your weaknesses. He would take time to understand you as a player. It was so very easy to interact with him as he had a different way of interacting with the players. After a game , he would come over and tell me what things I could have done better on the field . Sharing the dressing room with Steyn : I am really excited that I am sharing the dressing room with Steyn , who is undoubtedly the No.1 fast bowler in the world right now. He is a very hard-working bowler and I look forward to improving my skills by watching and interacting with him during the next month and a half . On his role in the team : It 's very difficult to define my role in the team as such. It all depends on the situation and the opponents. A player 's role will keep changing from match to match . The challenges ahead : Every game of cricket is a challenge no matter at what level you play or what the format is. The team management picked me because they have the confidence in my abilities , hence the primary challenge will be to perform well and help the team in achieving its goal. I am game for the challenges. I plan to take it one match at a time and not try to put pressure on myself by thinking too much . Attacking instinct : By nature I am an attacking bowler , who loves to get wickets and thereby put pressure on the rivals. However , there are times when one has to be restrictive and cut down the scoring as the conditions may not be conducive or suitable. It all depends on the situation . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunrisers Hyderabad,IPL 7,Dale Steyn,Bhuvneshwar Kumar,Alan Donald Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
