Bhuvneshwar says he relies on swing to get wickets PTI | Apr 29 , 2014 , 03.52 PM IST READ MORE Sunrisers Hyderabad | Ishant Sharma | IPL | Dale Steyn | Bhuvneshwar Kumar RELATED NEW DELHI : Playing alongside Dale Steyn and Ishant Sharma , who work up genuine pace , Sunrisers Hyderabad pacer Bhuvneshwar Kumar says speed is not his strength and therefore he relies on swing to get wickets . " My strength is not pace. I rely on swing to get wickets and I continue to do it that way. I have never tried to copy others , " Kumar said in an interview on Tuesday . Asked if playing alongside Steyn and Ishant he ever feels the need to increase pace , Kumar said , " No , I do n't think so. " " Never looked at the other end , that my partner is working up good pace or not. I just want to bank on my strength and I do that , " he said . Fast gaining a reputation for being one of the most economical T20 bowlers , Kumar said his mantra was simple to just stick to the basics . " It 's all about doing the little things right. It does n't matter what form of cricket you are playing. Just keep things simple and you will succeed. I have just concentrated on pitching the ball right and have done well so far , " the 24-year-old bowler said . Kumar , who is relishing being part of Sunrisers Hyderabad 's pace unit led by Steyn , said it has been a learning experience for him . " There is no particular thing that I have learnt from him. It 's also not that he teaches me anything. There are many things that you just observe while watching Steyn. Just seeing him bowl is a great learning in itself , " Kumar said . " The whole process , Steyn going to his run-up , his mindset , his strategy , his follow through , his discipline , everything is a learning in itself. And I am lucky to see him from close quarters , " he said . Asked if he enjoyed bowling with the new ball or in the death overs , Kumar said both were part of his job and he relishes both . " You have to get the batsmen out , whether with the new ball or in the final overs , " he said . Kumar said he had no preference for any format - T20 , ODI and Test cricket . " I am here to play cricket. No preferences at all. T20 , ODI , Test , I just want to perform on every stage and prove my worth as a good bowler , " Kumar said . He said the Sunrisers Hyderabad unit was upbeat and eager to perform well as a team . Asked about how different was Shikhar Dhawan 's leadership from his India team captain MS Dhoni , Kumar said everybody has a different style of their own . " MS Dhoni , as everybody knows , is a very cool customer and is always in control of the situation. Dhawan also has his strengths. He remained calm even after the two losses , " Kumar said . " He ( Dhawan ) takes the team along in wins and losses. Never allows the losses to get to the team and that 's good. He never puts pressure on the players. So I can safely say that the players have confidence on him just as he has confidence on the players , " he added . On T20 being hard on pacers , Kumar said the format did not matter as on a flat deck every bowler could get hit while if the wicket has something for the bowlers then one can make his mark be it T20 or Test cricket . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunrisers Hyderabad,Ishant Sharma,IPL,Dale Steyn,Bhuvneshwar Kumar Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
