Gavaskar wants BCCI to initiate a process whereby young and inexperienced cricketers playing in the IPL can get proper guidance. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED KOLKATA : The interim president of BCCI-IPL Sunil Gavaskar on Thursday confirmed that two cricketers were approached by the bookies during the ongoing IPL and the matter has been reported to the Anti-Corruption and Security Unit officials ( ACSU ) . " There have been a couple ( of approaches ) and it 's been reported to ACSU. They are looking into it , " Gavaskar said during a media interaction . Asked whether Brendon McCullum being approached by bookies is something to be concerned about , Gavaskar said : " I can assure you that the leak did not come from the IPL. I do n't know where it came from. It 's an issue to be concerned about. I 've to say that having an Integrity Officer ( IO ) attached with every team this time has helped. It has made it a lot easier for players to communicate. " Gavaskar said . " At times players did n't know what to do. Okay , there was a number to contact. But a lot of people ( players ) were thinking if you contact , does your number show up or not. Players were not sure about the anonymity and confidentiality aspects. Now with an IO attached to every team , it has become a lot of easier. If there has been an approach , people go and tell the officer so that he takes it forward. " The original 'Little Master ' , who described his stint at the helm of IPL as a " Twenty20 innings " , wants the BCCI to initiate a process whereby young and inexperienced cricketers playing in the IPL can get proper guidance . " On the second day after I took over , I called up Sachin Tendulkar , Rahul Dravid , VVS Laxman and Anil Kumble --- the four legends of the game. They are contemporary cricketers and know the pressures and tensions of the modern day game. We had a tremendous interaction. One of the things that came through was that youngsters need to be guided on how to handle their careers , " Gavaskar said . " The fame that comes with the IPL is tough to handle. It 's a hugely covered event , much bigger than Ranji Trophy , Duleep Trophy or Vijay Hazare Trophy , " Gavaskar said. " Not only youngsters , even established players can get carried away by the glitz , glamour and money and Indian cricket could end up losing them , " he added . " In order to be able to take care of that situation , we need to start a process. This is just thinking of IPL GC which will go to the working committee of BCCI from there on it will take wings , " he said . " It will have to be an ongoing process which should ideally start after the IPL when a majority of our players , apart from those selected for Indian team , will be free. The off-season is the right time for this programme , " he added. The ball is in BCCI 's court . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = VVS Laxman,Sunil Gavaskar,Sachin Tendulkar,Rahul Dravid,Anil Kumble Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
