READ MORE IPL | Ishant Sharma | Dale Steyn | Bhuvneshwar Kumar | Ajinkya Rahane RELATED ABU DHABI : Indian seamer Bhuvneshwar Kumar believes bowling alongside world 's best fast bowler Dale Steyn in the IPL will help him pick up the " little things " from the South African and make him a better bowler . Kumar is relishing being part of Sunrisers Hyderabad 's pace unit , which is led by Steyn and said it has been a learning experience for him . " You learn more when bowling alongside someone like Dale. There are so many little things I can pick up from him that can help me become a better bowler. That is the biggest positive of being part of such an attack , " Kumar told IPL 's official website . " I bowled with Dale a few times in the nets but talking to him during the match about specific batsmen 's weaknesses and planning was a learning experience. " Last night , Kumar ( 1-21 ) , Steyn ( 2-29 ) and Ishant Sharma ( 1-29 ) strangled the Rajasthan Royals 's top order , reducing them to 31/3 in 6.2 overs . Kumar produced quality swing bowling and even though he had just one wicket to show in his 3.3 overs , with a bit of luck , he could have had more scalps to his name . In his third over , Bhuvi almost had Watson to nick one behind with an out-swinger , while Ajinkya Rahane too was foxed by a delivery which swerved back in but luck was not on his side and he didnt get the wickets . " These were the perfect conditions for me - there was grass on the wicket and I was getting the ball to swing. I know that when I get conditions like this , I become a different bowler altogether , " Kumar said . Asked if he felt he deserved a wicket in your third over , Kumar said : " Yes , I thought I did. I bowled an out-swinger to Watson and the one that came in to Ajinkya. Both were lucky to miss the edge . " When you are bowling that well , you do feel like you should have ended up with more wickets. But it was equally satisfying to see Ishant pick up a wicket in the very next over . " When you create pressure in the previous over for your partner to strike , it is sometimes as satisfying as picking up a wicket yourself. That 's how you win matches - bowling in pairs. " http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = IPL,Ishant Sharma,Dale Steyn,Bhuvneshwar Kumar,Ajinkya Rahane Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
