Bowling could be RCB 's Achilles heel Vedam JaishankarVedam Jaishankar,TNN | Apr 14 , 2014 , 01.01 AM IST There is not a single pacer or spinner , who could be termed a match-winner on the lines of a Lasith Malinga or Sunil Narine. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED BANGALORE : If a woefully out-of-form Yuvraj Singh does not quickly bat with the panache he is famous for , his employers Royal Challengers Bangalore would rightly rue splurging Rs 14 crore on him and wonder if that sum could not have been better utilised by buying half-a-dozen young , hungry Indian cricketers . RCB had already retained three supreme match-winners — Chris Gayle , Virat Kohli and AB de Villiers — and logic would have demanded that they build their team around the trio. But the expensive purchase of Yuvraj ensured that there was not enough money to spend on quality Indian cricketers. Perhaps none understands this better than Yuvraj himself and hence the onus would be on him to prove that he is not yet over the hill . When on song , Yuvraj is an explosive batsman and the strengths he brings to the table makes RCB one of the most formidable batting line-ups in IPL 7. A top-order comprising Gayle , Parthiv Patel , Kohli , AB de Villiers , Yuvraj , Vijay Zol and Albie Morkel would test the best of bowlers in the T20 format . Gayle , who has slammed 180 sixes in the IPL ( the next best being Suresh Raina with only 115 ) , is the most feared batsman in T20 cricket , just as de Villiers is the most innovative and Kohli a relentless run-hungry machine. Should Yuvraj too come to the party , RCB would be the team to beat this season . The bowling , though , does not inspire the same confidence. There is not a single pacer or spinner , who could be termed a match-winner on the lines of a Lasith Malinga or Sunil Narine. But since the batting is the obvious forte , the team could go in with additional bowling options . A lot would depend on fringe India bowlers Varun Aaron , Ashok Dinda and hopefuls Abu Nechim Ahmed and Harshal Patel and their ability to forge an effective combination with the likes of Mitchell Starc , Morkel and Ravi Rampaul. If they strike , RCB 's spirits will soar like never before . Strength : Batting. Packed with impact batsmen Chris Gayle , Virat Kohli , AB de Villiers , Yuvraj Singh Weakness : Bowling. Lack top-class spinner or paceman . Opportunity : Vijay Zol in batting ; Yuzvendra Chahal ( leg-spin ) ; Sachin Rana ( all-rounder ) . Threat : Injury , illness. Poor back up strength for main players . Support staff : Brijesh Patel heads cricket operations. Daniel Vettori is head coach. Allan Donald is bowling coach. Trent Woodhill is batting and fielding coach . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virat Kohli,Varun Aaron,Royal Challengers Bangalore,IPL 7,Chris Gayle Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
