Maxwell 's only failure in this year 's IPL was against RCB in the first leg. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED BANGALORE : It is doubtful if a more awesome bunch of innovative and savage hitters has ever been assembled on Indian shores for a cricket match . The very mention of the protagonists - Chris Gayle , Glenn Maxwell , AB de Villiers , David Miller , Virat Kohli , George Bailey , Yuvraj Singh and Virender Sehwag - could leave T20 cricket aficionados salivating in anticipation . These are the celebrated gladiators of the modern age and each will strive to dominate in an arena tailor-made for their brand of cricket when Royal Challengers Bangalore ( 3 wins , 6 points ) and the rampaging Kings XI Punjab ( 6 wins , 12 points ) clash on Friday . Of course there 's a crucial matter of the rain gods obliging and staying away from the M Chinnaswamy Stadium , for the evening at least. At the time of writing , the city had experienced quite a bit of rain with the day temperatures plunging to low-to-mid 20s . The Australian marauder Maxwell , who has caught the imagination of the public in this edition of the IPL , has clearly taken overt aggression and consistent batsmanship to another level. The fact that he has narrowly missed four centuries in the last seven innings speaks volumes of his reliability . However , it is the manner in which he has made his runs that has made him such a dreaded batsman for opposing bowlers and captains . His trademark reverse sweeps are as vigorous as his pulls and this helps him make a mockery of field settings. Maxwell targets gaps in the field and his ability to repeatedly pull off these spectacular strokes evokes shock and awe . Maxwell 's only failure in this year 's IPL was against RCB in the first leg when he was dismissed him for 6. He would be keen to set the record straight . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virat Kohli,Glenn Maxwell,David Miller,Chris Gayle,AB de Villiers Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
