Can Delhi Daredevils hold off Kings XI Punjab strongmen ? Partha Bhaduri Partha Bhaduri,TNN | May 19 , 2014 , 10.36 AM IST Gary Kirsten and Kevin Pietersen have failed to make Delhi Daredevils a formidable side. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : T20 cricket is fickle business at the best of times. With victory and defeat proving notoriously hard to analyze and individual heroics often swaying fortunes in the middle , prolonged failure can have a numbing effect . Just ask Delhi Daredevils coaching staff member Eric Simons , who has spent his life honing the skills of pace bowlers. As Delhi 's aimless season meanders on with yet another clash at the Ferozeshah Kotla on Monday , this time against the mighty , top-placed Kings XI Punjab , Simons could n't bring himself to explain why Delhi 's bowlers had been so poor this season , resulting in the team wallowing at the bottom of the IPL pool . " To be fair we ca n't quite put a finger on why we have struggled to take wickets , " he said on match eve. He went on to suggest that Delhi 's lacklustre batting was to blame for the defeats , since this was a batsman 's game . Delhi may not have hit upon the key to T20 success but it seems they have n't found the reasons for failure either . Perhaps Simons was more on the money when he suggested , " We need to spend more time as a team , inject some positivity. We did n't retain any players. Most of our players do n't play international cricket. In T20 , you have to hit the ground running or there 's no time to recoup. " The Kevin Pietersen-led squad has suffered from the skipper 's own indifferent form and his untimely finger injury , apart from losing Nathan Coulter-Nile , the only bowler --according to Simons --who brought in some much-needed aggression . The Indians , Mohammad Shami and Dinesh Karthik included , have not exactly set the tournament on fire. Perhaps better team dynamics and a winning spree could be the reason why , in the opposition camp , even domestic players like Sandeep Sharma and Akshar Patel have punched above their weight . Asked to explain one reason for Kings XI 's success apart from the astounding hitting skills of the Maxwells and Millers , Cheteshwar Pujara told TOI on Saturday morning , " We are a happy team because we have been winning. In IPL , momentum is everything , even though it is a long tournament. Winning early helps you settle down on individual roles and possible team combinations. It makes your job easier. With such a diverse squad in every IPL team , losing often can leave you confused. " Of course , Punjab have had Maxwell too , and they are now in a position to set their sights on the title . Pujara , though , sounded cautious , " We have n't talked about winning yet. We have to stay alert. " For Monday 's game , at least , they will have the clear psychological edge. It 's a sad statement on the home team 's performance when ticket-seeking fans sound more eager to watch opposition batsmen . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Kings XI Punjab,Kevin Pietersen,Gary Kirsten,Delhi Daredevils,Cheteshwar Pujara Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
