Captain Dhoni 's yellow submarine set to sail again Dwaipayan Datta Dwaipayan Datta,TNN | Apr 12 , 2014 , 12.18 AM IST Retaining its core and finding correct replacements was CSK 's motif and they did that in the last auction. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED CSK up against Sunrisers ' firepower CHENNAI : Super Kings have been at the centre of all the controversy that has rocked the IPL in the last one year. There have been serious allegations made against the team , but one ca n't deny that despite the chaos , there 's a sense of order in the team-building process of this franchise . Retaining its core and finding correct replacements was CSK 's motif and they did that in the last auction. They have let go of regulars like Mike Hussey , Albie Morkel , M Vijay and S Badrinath , because the management thought these players might have already given their best for the team. And the replacements like Dwayne Smith , Brendon McCullum , Samuel Badree are match-winners . The team , of course , revolves around the star power and leadership skills of MS Dhoni. He , along with trusted lieutenant Suresh Raina and all-rounder Dwayne Bravo , make CSK the most potent unit of the league . All-rounders , in fact , are the side 's biggest assets and CSK are blessed to have Ravindra Jadeja and R Ashwin. Be it the spinner-friendly pitches of UAE or the familiar Chepauk , these two are match-winners who lend a lot of depth to the side . The pace bowling department has been an area of concern for the team at times , but the management has been judicious in its choices. Ashish Nehra was n't exactly a popular choice among the fans , but the Super Kings bosses had clearly noted the fact that Nehra had played quite a few first-class matches this season . Fitness is n't a concern for the veteran left-armer and coach Stephen Fleming feels that Nehra 's vast experience is bound to benefit the franchise . With Bravo already there , the likes of Mohit Sharma , Ishwar Pandey and Ben Hilfenhaus will complete the pace attack and one can be rest assured CSK will once again be the team to beat . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Mike Hussey,Dwayne Smith,Dwayne Bravo,Brendon McCullum,Ashish Nehra Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
