Chennai Super Kings eliminate Mumbai Indians Gaurav Gupta Gaurav Gupta,TNN | May 29 , 2014 , 09.46 AM IST This was CSK 's third win over MI this season , which showed their domination. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : Known chase masters Chennai Super Kings switched on their batting machine just at the perfect time to knock the Mumbai Indians out of the tournament in the 'Eliminator ' at the Brabourne Stadium on Wednesday night . Chasing 174 , CSK coasted to a seven-wicket victory in style to set up a date with the Kings XI Punjab in the second qualifier , at the Wankhede stadium , on Friday night . CSK received a brilliant start through Dwayne Smith ( 24 , 20b , 4x4 ) and Faf du Plessis , who added 60 in just 38 balls , before Harbhajan Singh fought back for MI by getting both out in the same over . For a while , the visitors seemed in slight trouble , as Brendon McCullum was stumped while going for a big one against Pragyan Ojha , but Suresh Raina ( 54 not out , 33b , 4x4 , 2x6 ) and veteran batsman David Hussey ( 40 not out , 29b , 2x4 , 3x6 ) ) added 89 for the fourth wicket in merely 55 balls to seal the chase with utmost ease . This was CSK 's third win over MI this season , which showed how they dominated the defending champions all through . The loss also ended MI 's fairytale run in IPL 7 , which had seen them qualify for the playoffs despite losing their first five games in a row . They had a close decision that went against them when Praveen Kumar had Dwayne Smith plumb in front. They also had a couple of dropped catches which led to the defeat . However , CSK were too good with the bat for them on Wednesday night. The critical factor was that they lost their last six wickets for 23 runs in the end , which affected the slog badly . It spoilt a great start by Lendl Simmons ( 67 , 44b , 5x4 , 4x6 ) , and Michael Hussey , who had put on 76 for the first wicket after MI were put into to bat by Dhoni . Earlier , riding on another fabulous effort from the in-form West Indian , the Mumbai Indians raced to 173 for eight. Backed by an enthusiastic crowd , the defending champs , despite slipping badly in the end , had an impressive total to play with . Sadly , their bowlers failed rise to the occasion to prevent the visitors ' strong batting line-up from spoiling the party . For CSK , young seamer Mohit Sharma , despite proving to be expensive , employed fantastic variations to take three wickets as MI went hell for leather . With 22 sticks under his belt , Mohit is now the top wicket-taker in IPL 7 , and seems a worthy selection for the Indian ODI team to Bangladesh. Almost all the CSK bowlers , in fact , must be praised for keeping their cool and holding their line and length against MI 's batsmen , who failed to clear the boundary repeatedly . To see a batting line-up which had chased a 190-run target in just 14.4 overs in their last game collapse like it did on Wednesday was strange , but then , as they say : 'Every day is not Sunday' . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Suresh Raina,Mumbai Indians,Harbhajan Singh,David Hussey,Chennai Super Kings Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
