Chennai Super Kings humiliate Delhi Daredevils K Shriniwas Rao K Shriniwas Rao,TNN | Apr 22 , 2014 , 10.04 AM IST CSK came up with a very impressive fielding display on Monday. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED ABU DHABI : Chennai Super Kings are back to their winning ways. On Monday at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium , they registered their first win of the league 's seventh edition , beating a listless Delhi Daredevils by a massive 93 runs . The win should give CSK , a franchise dealing with a number of off-the-field controversies , some respite. Daredevils , on the other hand , will need to figure out the changes in the team ahead of their next game . The Super Kings won the toss and elected to bat first , as has been the norm here for most teams. The wicket remained the usual helpful track for the batsmen where Suresh Raina led the run-flow with a half-century and contributions came from skipper MS Dhoni , opener Dwayne Smith and middle-order batsman Faf du Plessis . Dhoni 's men could 've gone further than the eventual total of 177 if not for some intelligent bowling from Jaidev Unadkat and James Neesham , who ended up being the most economical bowlers for the Dinesh Karthik-led side. CSK looked comfortable in their scoring despite the absence of all-rounder Dwayne Bravo , who will miss the rest of the IPL because of a shoulder injury . The Daredevils did not make a single change to the line-up that won in Dubai on Saturday but the retained XI failed to have the same impact. Openers Mayank Agarwal and Murali Vijay lost their wickets early and the rest of the batting did n't fire . Skipper Karthik and Neesham were the only batsmen to cross a score of 20 runs each as the Daredevils crumbled under pressure. CSK came up with a very impressive fielding display on Monday with du Plessis , in particular , picking some stunning catches to put Daredevils on the back foot. In all , it was an all-round show that the opponents could n't do much about . " Overall , it was a complete performance and I ca n't complain , " a smiling Dhoni said . Left-hander Suresh Raina , playing his 101st match for the Chennai Super Kings , said he had drawn his strategy for the game and talked about how he had decided to give himself some time to settle down before going after the bowlers . Raina did precisely that , getting to an impressive 56 off 41 balls , striking five fours and a six. To the southpaw 's credit , Raina has n't missed a single match yet with the Super Kings in seven years . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Suresh Raina,IPL,Dwayne Smith,Delhi Daredevils,Chennai Super Kings Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
