Chennai Super Kings restrict Rajasthan Royals to 148/8 PTI | May 13 , 2014 , 06.14 PM IST Rajasthan Royals skipper Shane Watson plays a shot during IPL 7 match against Chennai Super Kings in Ranchi on Tuesday. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED RANCHI : Skipper Shane Watson came up with his best score of the season - a fiery 51 - but Rajasthan Royals lost momentum midway through the innings to score a modest 148 for eight against Chennai Super Kings in an IPL match on Tuesday . Watson 's decision to promote himself to the opening slot paid dividends as he emerged top scorer for his side with a 36-ball knock , which featured four sixes and three boundaries . They were going steady and strong , reaching 84 for one at the half-way mark but lost wickets in a heap after that as the batsmen tried to step up the gas . Except for a 60-run stand between Watson and his young opening partner Ankit Sharma ( 30 ) , RR failed to put up partnerships and that pulled them down . Paceman Mohit Sharma ( 3/31 ) and left-arm spinner Ravindra Jadeja ( 2/18 ) shared five wickets between them . West Indies leg-spinner Samuel Badree began for CSK and bowled a superb three-over spell , conceding just 11 runs. He bowled a tight wicket-to-wicket line and Watson and Ankit Sharma played the bowler on merit . The left-handed Ankit made a promising start , offering straight-bat shots to Mohit , hitting the paceman for two consecutive boundaries. The youngster then showed his aggressive side by plundering 17 runs off R Ashwin 's over , hitting the experienced spinner for two fours and a six . Ashwin returned and had his revenge , having the youngster caught near the ropes . Watson was cautious initially even though he was striking the ball well. The burly Australian exploded later as he punished debutant Vijay Shankar , reeling off 19 runs in the 10th over to take the team 's score to 84 for one . Ajinkya Rahane ( 4 ) was needlessly run out in a terrible mix-up with his captain , who later completed his fifty with a big hit off Mohit but was bowled immediately off a beauty that swung from good length to shatter the stumps . RR 's downfall started with Watson 's wicket as they kept losing one batsman after another. Their last match 's heroes Steve Smith ( 9 ) and James Faulknar ( 1 ) also returned to the dug-out cheaply . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Shane Watson,Ravindra Jadeja,Rajasthan Royals,Mohit Sharma,Chennai Super Kings Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
