READ MORE Sunrisers Hyderabad | Royal Challengers Bangalore | Indian Premier League | Chris Gayle | Virat Kohli RELATED BANGALORE : Royal Challengers Bangalore have returned home and have promised to put behind the unsavory memories of their demoralizing defeats during the UAE leg of the Indian Premier League . Having suffered three straight defeats , RCB 's West Indian recruit Chris Gayle hopes home advantage would help the Virat Kohli-led side bounce back when they begin their India leg with a match against Sunrisers Hyderabad on Sunday at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium . " It 's a bit disappointing as RCB won the first two matches and then lost the next three. But that 's cricket. Hopefully we can rebound this time , " said Gayle , at a function to announce him as the brand ambassador of Wham mobiles . " We are back home in familiar conditions and hopefully we can reach the top four , " said Gayle , who will return to his happy hunting ground-M Chinnaswamy stadium - on Sunday. It was at the same venue that Gayle set the record for the fastest century in the history of competitive cricket with an astonishing 100 off 30 balls against Pune Warriors last year , and then went on to make the highest score ever seen in T20 , finishing with an unbeaten 175 off 66 balls . Gayle promised the team will regroup and look to gain momentum by winning games. " We have a lot of talented individuals capable of winning it for the team. We need to regroup. We have got a good break before the India leg begins and that should help us. We aim to gain some momentum by winning some games. " " It 's too early in the tournament to assess our team. In this tournament every team is favourite to win the title , " Gayle added . Gayle , who batted for the first time after missing first four outings owing to back injury , is racing against time to get himself match-fit. " Still a bit of discomfort , " Gayle said about his back-spasm. " There are three days before the next match and I am doing a bit of work with the physio. Let 's see how things unfold over the next couple of days , " the Jamaican said . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunrisers Hyderabad,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Indian Premier League,Chris Gayle,Virat Kohli Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
