Chris Lynn takes a stunner to swing it for Kolkata Knight Riders K Shriniwas Rao K Shriniwas Rao,TNN | Apr 25 , 2014 , 09.17 AM IST READ MORE Varun Aaron | Royal Challengers Bangalore | Kolkata Knight Riders | Chris Lynn | AB de Villiers RELATED SHARJAH : There were loud cheers echoing inside the Sharjah Cricket Stadium as Royal Challengers Bangalore took on the Kolkata Knight Riders on Thursday evening . The Knights had fans that made them turn purple in joy , the Challengers had raucous support. And then , there was a catch. An absolute stunner. The Knights made a statement that the Challengers could n't reply to . Chris Lynn , the highest scorer for the Knight Riders earlier in the evening , came up with an outstanding catch at deep mid-wicket that had AB de Villiers walking back to the pavilion in shock. Until that catch , tension had been mounting. But once Lynn accomplished what he did , the match had tilted in the Knights favour . Lynn turned out to be the day 's hero as Kolkata Knight Riders beat the Royal Challengers Bangalore by two runs. Until that catch , the Challengers seemed to be in complete control of the game but the moment alone rid Virat Kohli 's men of all the joy they had been expecting . Chasing 150 , the Royal Challengers began well with the openers putting up a 67-run stand. With the kind of batsmen expected to follow , the matched appeared RCB 's for the taking until Lynn decided otherwise . De Villiers , playing with great risk but getting away until then , hit a short of length delivery to deep mid-wicket where Lynn , his eyes on the ball , positioned himself almost unbelievably to not just take the catch but avoid falling on the boundary ropes too. This IPL has already seen some stunning catches but the one here on Thursday will have to be the best of them all . Earlier in the evening , Royal Challengers won the toss and put the Knights in to bat first. The decision seemed to be based on their experience of having played the last match here against Delhi Daredevils , when they 'd reduced their opponents to a paltry total and chased it down with great ease . Against the Knights too , RCB looked set to do the same , removing skipper Gambhir for another duck - his third in three matches , and the in-form Manish Pandey for just five runs. Young Australian Chris Lynn stuck to his task , bailing the team out with a 31-ball 45 even as opener Kallis held his ground at the other end , coming up with a very useful 43 runs . Robin Uthappa and Suryakumar Yadav 's contributions further helped the Knights in touching the 150-run mark . Barring Albie Morkel and Muttiah Muralitharan , who gave away runs at more than 10 per over , the rest of the bowlers , especially Varun Aaron , came up with impressive spells for the RCB. Aaron took three wickets in four overs , giving away just 16 runs . A 150-run target was never going to be an easy one for the Knights to defend , especially given the batting arsenal available with the RCB and especially after openers Parthiv Patel and Yogesh Takawale added 67. Kohli walked in at No. 3 , Yuvraj at 4 and AB at 5 . However , all three struggled to force the pace and the Knights pulled off an incredible heist . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Varun Aaron,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Kolkata Knight Riders,Chris Lynn,AB de Villiers Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
