Corey Anderson finally pays Mumbai Indians back Gaurav Gupta Gaurav Gupta,TNN | May 27 , 2014 , 09.34 AM IST Mumbai Indians owner Neeta Ambani greets Corey Anderson after the victroy in their IPL 7 match against Rajasthan Royals in Mumbai. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : Till Sunday night , Corey Anderson must 've wished he was anywhere but on a cricket ground . Bought for an astronomical sum of Rs 4.5 crores in the auction in February by the Mumbai Indians , the Kiwi had become a symbol of all that was wrong with the defending champs in the initial stages of IPL 7 . Struggling to put bat to ball , especially against the spinners , Anderson had managed 150 runs in 10 games , and was eventually dropped from the team . His failure was highlighted majorly in MI 's five-game losing streak in the UAE leg of the tournament. Former New Zealand seamer & commentator Simon Doull felt that the pressure of his high pay packet was beginning to get to the 23-year-old . His record 36-ball ton against the Windies and exploits against India at home were beginning to look like flashes in the pan , and it seemed his franchise had erred in going that extra mile to buy him , rather than retain the likes of Glenn Maxwell and Dwayne Smith , who kept firing consistently for their new teams . Deep inside , though , Anderson , was waiting for that one chance to show everyone what he was all about. Luckily for him , on Sunday night , MI decided to give him that chance. In a must-win big game , the hosts needed an extra batsman , and the youngster regained his spot . It was perhaps the most important call MI have taken in this edition. In an absolute thriller , Anderson blasted an unbeaten 95 off 44 balls against the Rajasthan Royals to help his team get past 190 in 14.4 overs . " We showed today that nothing is impossible. Anderson was just unbelievable. The kind of shots he played was amazing , " gushed MI skipper Rohit Sharma after the magnificent win . Rohit said that despite his failures till Sunday , the team never lost faith in Anderson. " He was excited. It is his first IPL. He wanted to do well. He was trying hard but things were not falling in place . " I had played against him in New Zealand recently and saw the kind of talent he has. I always believed he could produce a performance like this any time. I hope he continues this form . It will be really good for us , " Rohit remarked . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Rohit Sharma,Mumbai Indians,Glenn Maxwell,Dwayne Smith,Corey Anderson Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
