Crunch time for Royal Challengers Bangalore against Chennai Super Kings Pratik Bandyopadhyay Pratik Bandyopadhyay,TNN | May 18 , 2014 , 10.26 AM IST The prolonged lean patch of captain Kohli has troubled RCB. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED RANCHI : These are desperate times for Royal Challengers Bangalore . While Chennai Super Kings , their opponents on Sunday , are exploring new options towards the end of the league stage , the big budget Bangalore side is busy trying to justify the investments . MS Dhoni 's team is ready to welcome David Hussey in their midst as Dwayne Bravo 's replacement. Experimenting with R Ashwin in the top order , Virat Kohli and Co. are still searching for the formula that could take them to the playoffs . Sitting on eight points with just four matches left , a win will be a must for RCB to stay in the hunt when they take on CSK here at JSCA International Cricket Stadium . There were many positives from their last match against Delhi Daredevils that will give them heart before the tough fight against Chennai at a venue where they appear invincible at times . There was Yuvraj Singh 's sublime hitting and AB de Villiers ' continued explosive form. But the prolonged lean patch of captain Kohli and Chris Gayle 's inability to come into his own are issues that have troubled RCB . Their bowling , too , does n't inspires confidence. Yuzvendra Chahal , the young leggie , has by far been their best bowler and with Muttiah Muralitharan in the ranks , the spin department is considerably well-placed . But the pacers have been a major headache for Kohli. Jharkhand lad Varun Aaron has bowled with relentless pace and has picked up 12 wickets , but he and Mitchell Starc have shown a tendency to leak runs in the death overs . The fact that a team like Delhi Daredevils scored 68 runs in the last seven overs against them is ominous even though RCB won that match. If the same thing happens against Chennai , Bangalore will surely end up on the losing side . The Super Kings look like a side which has plugged all holes. Now with the younger Hussey available for selection , their options have increased manifold . According to coach Stephen Fleming , they are looking to accommodate him in the lower middle-order. With Brendon McCullum leaving after CSK 's match in Kolkata to be with his wife for the birth of their child , Hussey could not have come in at a better time . Hussey 's inclusion could mean a break for Samuel Badree , but the Aussie could make up for the loss of spin-bowling options with his off breaks. Even though a fresh pitch will be used for the game , it is not likely to reduce the spinners ' influence . Kohli may be tempted to bat first if he wins the toss , but he has to keep in mind that the pitch could help spinners more under lights . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virat Kohli,Royal Challengers Bangalore,MS Dhoni,Chris Gayle,Chennai Super Kings Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
