CSK and Royals put first foot forward K Shriniwas Rao K Shriniwas Rao,TNN | Apr 18 , 2014 , 12.06 AM IST The Super Kings – always a formidable side in this Twenty20 league – are already focused on dealing with the Kings. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED SHARJAH : The two teams that had been at the centre of betting and spot-fixing scandals last year will enter the fray on Friday : Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals . The former , who have fallen from grace for all kinds of wrong-doings , will take on formidable Kings XI Punjab in IPL 7 first afternoon match while the latter , who have suffered the ignominy of having three of their players accused of playing to the tune of bookies and their co-owner Raj Kundra being under investigation for betting , meet Sunrisers Hyderabad in the evening match . Given the air of pressure that has enveloped these two teams over the last year , Friday 's outings wo n't just be another day in the office. Apart from tackling the opponents , there 'll be the added burden of leaving behind all the sour memories and starting afresh . The Super Kings - always a formidable side in this Twenty20 league - are already focused on dealing with the Kings. " We rate them very highly. I think they have done really well in the auction and have some really good players , especially some good hitters , " says CSK coach Stephen Fleming , echoing the thoughts of many . " George Bailey is a good captain at the international level and they have some long hands. ( Virender ) Sehwag is one that comes to my mind. With ( David ) Miller , ( Glenn ) Maxwell and ( Mitchell ) Johnson in , they are a very good side , " adds Fleming . There was no talk whatsoever beyond the ambit of Friday 's games though. Rajasthan Royals came across as the more settled side when it came to dealing with the ground realities and having to speak about it. The other day , captain Shane Watson had spoken about leaving aside the 'bad apples ' and starting afresh. A day before the match here , he emphasized it yet again . " We have put the controversies behind us and it was incredible going through what we did , " he says , talking about how he and the entire side felt betrayed by what had happened. And then he added how tough it was going to be for the Royals at the start of this league . Watson , however , believes that Rajasthan Royals have their strongest-ever squad this IPL and that the time is ripe to make the most of it . Live on TV : CSK vs Kings XI ( Sony Six 4pm ) ; Sunrisers vs RR ( Sony Six , 8pm ) http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunrisers Hyderabad,Rajasthan Royals,Kings XI Punjab,IPL 7,Chennai Super Kings Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
