CSK 's reign in Dhoni 's den after rain Sourav ModakSourav Modak,TNN | May 3 , 2014 , 10.38 AM IST Chennai Super Kings players celebrate the dismissal of Kolkata Knight Riders captain Gautam Gambhir during their IPL 7 match in Ranchi. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED RANCHI : The capital of Jharkhand is the second home of Chennai Super Kings as the team is helmed by MS Dhoni , Ranchi 's most famous son . CSK did not disappoint the capacity crowd at the JSCA stadium on Friday , eking out an easy 34-run win over Kolkata Knight Riders . After heavy rains delayed the start of the match by an hour and 40 minutes , the match was reduced to a 17 overs-a-side game. Dhoni won the toss and elected to bat and his team put up a competitive 148/3 . KKR were never really in the hunt and finished at 114/9. Ravindra Jadeja was the pick of the CSK bowlers with four for 12 . Earlier , Brendon McCullum ( 56 off 40 balls ) was the chief architect of the CSK innings while there were useful contributions from Suresh Raina ( 31 off 25 balls ) , skipper MS Dhoni ( 22 off 17 balls ) and Ravindra Jadeja ( 17 off 10 balls ) . McCullum mixed caution with aggression to hold the CSK innings together with an organised innings studded with five fours and two hits over the fence . The Kiwi , who has become a more composed batsman now , probably after becoming captain of his national team , punished poor deliveries to lead Chennai Super Kings charge . He drove , pulled and cut with ease and brought up his fifty by pulling South African veteran Jacques Kallis for a huge six . Asked to bowl first by Dhoni , KKR , without any genuine quick bowler in the playing XI , decided to start with spinners Shakib Al Hasan and Sunil Narine . Just when it seemed CSK openers Dwayne Smith and McCullum were going to maul the KKR attack , Shakib gave the team its first breakthrough by trapping Smith plumb in front of the stumps . McCullum was then joined by the most successful batsman in IPL history , Suresh Raina , who played a steady innings to build a good platform for his team . STORY OF THE MATCH 140.00 : McCullum 's Strike Rate : The Kiwi has been in tremendous form all through the UAE sojourn and he tormented his former franchise with a brilliant 40-ball 56 with five fours and two sixes . 12.50 : Russel 's Economy Rate : The Jamaican all-rounder is a better batsman than bowler as his stints in the World T20 and the outings with Daredevils showed. On Friday too , he bowled on both sides of the pitch and suffered . TALKING POINT Gautam Gambhir registered yet another failure on Friday and the time has come for the KKR skipper to take a call on himself. A break perhaps may do wonders for the new daddy . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Ravindra Jadeja,MS Dhoni,Kolkata Knight Riders,Gautam Gambhir,Chennai Super Kings Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
