READ MORE South Africa | IPL | Delhi Daredevils | JP Duminy RELATED NEW DELHI : Despite losing five of their seven matches , one thing the Delhi Daredevils can take heart from is the form of JP Duminy . The 30-year-old South African has amassed 280 runs from eight games at a strike rate of 137 and has been the most consistent batsman for them so far . The southpaw has often come in to bat in difficult situations but has ensured a good total on the board for his team . You have been quite successful playing at No 5. Are you happy with your form and enjoying this role ? I am enjoying it. It is not anything different. It has been a great success for me. Unfortunately we have not produced the results that we would like to but we still have seven games to go and there is still an outside chance. If we get one or two wins under the belt then that will help us with our confidence . The Delhi middle-order has not performed as well as they should. Can we see you moving up the order ? For now I will stick to the same. We have a very good top order. I am playing at No.5 , which is where I play for South Africa as well. So yeah , it is pretty much the same for me . You have often come in to bat when your team is struggling to score runs. Does that add to the pressure ? There is pressure anywhere you bat. You are always going to feel pressure no matter what stage of the game you walk in. I have played a lot of international cricket and am not new to IPL. Reading the situation is very important and I try to play accordingly . Where do you think the team is going wrong ? One or two things have not gone our way. We have not collectively putup a good performance. When we have bowled well , we have not batted well enough and obviously it goes the other way round as well. But I think we are heading in the right direction. Ours is a new squad that is gelling well together. In the long run , we can expect big performances from Delhi Daredevils . Do you think bowlers ' lack of experience , especially in the death overs , is costing the team ? We have a fairly young bowling attack. It is best to give them some time . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = South Africa,IPL,Delhi Daredevils,JP Duminy Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
