Gautam Gambhir 's Knights are in pole position to win a second IPL title in three years. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED KOLKATA : After four successive losses , the Kolkata Knight Riders appeared to be not only down but also out of the race in IPL 7. But an unprecedented seven wins on the trot in the league stage has put Gautam Gambhir 's Knights in pole position to win a second IPL title in three years . KKR 's 'Captain Intense ' gave an insight into what makes the 'Purple Brigade ' the flavour of the season in an exclusive interview . Excerpts : When KKR broke the bank to pick you at the auction for Rs 11 crore in 2011 , were you somewhat apprehensive ? I was n't apprehensive but there was a lot of pressure. Being the costliest player in IPL meant there were huge expectations from me , both as a player and captain. The first three seasons for KKR had not been good , so there was pressure on the team , too. There was a whole new set of players , so we had to start from scratch. On the positive side , there was no baggage to carry . Did you have a say in the auction ? As I was on the auction list myself , I did n't have any say in 2011 , but I did make a few suggestions for the 'mini ' auction in 2012. One of them was to get Sunil Narine on board. Not many people knew about him , so I had a tough time convincing the team management. I am glad we got him . Having got him on board , you have not only backed him but used him smartly.. . He made his ODI debut against India in Ahmedabad and made an immediate impact. Barring the Indore ODI , where Viru ( Sehwag ) lashed a double century ( 219 ) and I shared a 176-run stand with him for the first wicket , Narine bowled really well. Having hand-picked him , I backed him to win us matches . Winning the IPL in 2012 obviously was a big deal for KKR and you.. . It was a huge moment for the franchise. What pleased me most was that it was a total team effort with just about every player contributing. It was a big deal for KKR fans , too. Having waited four years for it , they had a lot to cheer for . Are you obsessed with winning ? It 's not that I want to win by hook or crook , but I hate to lose. There is a lot of talk these days about focusing on the 'process ' and not worrying about results. I know you ca n't control everything , but results matter most at this level. Winning a game puts me in a happy space . The intensity you display on the field stems from this ? It is a conscious thing. For me it 's like being in office with a job to do. I have the rest of the day to do what I want to do , or what I want to be. So I do whatever I can to get the job done. There have been times when my frustrations have burst forth , but it 's in the heat of the moment. Those playing under me know that I will continue to back them to the hilt . Is backing players , especially youngsters , something to do with what you experienced early in your career ? Let 's put it this way : I wish I had the backing of my seniors when I was a fringe player. It is not easy for a young player when he gets dropped after a couple of failures. Players need a secure environment to express themselves and enjoy the game. I want to make sure that young players get the backing they deserve . You have backed young Surya Yadav.. . He is a good young player who has shown us what he is capable of. Prior to joining us , he had played just one IPL match , but he has played all 14 for KKR in his first season with us. Game situations have prevented him from playing a bigger role so far , but his time will come . How tough was it to turn it around after scores of 0 , 0 , 0 and 1 in your first four innings in this IPL season ? It is never easy. I was n't even sure whether I was out of form because I had played just 14 deliveries in my four outings. You need to spend some time in the middle to judge that. Coming in at No 3 against KXIP did n't help. I have been an opener all my life and I would rather drop myself than drop down the order to protect myself . As captain , you must be pleased with the way KKR have dominated their last few matches ? We have one of the strongest bowling attacks in the competition which is doing the job so well that Yusuf Pathan and Ryan ten Doeschate have hardly been used. More importantly , we have been chasing down targets with ease. Top teams have to be good at both --setting targets as well as chasing . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Yusuf Pathan,Sunil Narine,Kolkata Knight Riders,IPL,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
