Explosive Punjab win again as RCB fail to chase down 199 Vedam JaishankarVedam Jaishankar,TNN | May 10 , 2014 , 10.09 AM IST Kings XI Punjab players leave the field after defeating Royal Challengers Bangalore in Bangalore. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED BANGALORE : The wheels came off Royal Challengers Bangalore 's run chase as Kings XI Punjab paceman Sandeep Sharma struck gold with the first two deliveries of his second over to account for the superstars of the home side batting , Chris Gayle and Virat Kohli . For good measure , he came back for his second spell to pack off Parthiv Patel too . Chasing Kings XI Punjab 's David Miller-propelled total of 198/8 , RCB never recovered from that abysmal start and were reduced to 76/6 at the start of the 12th over. They eventually managed to get to 166/9 to lose by 32 runs. Top-scorer AB de Villiers ( 53 ; 26b , 1x4 , 5x6 ) offered some late resistance but his dismissal in the 16th over sealed RCB 's fate . Kings XI 's great hope Glenn Maxwell ( 25 ) was dismissed relatively cheaply but the left-handed David Miller ( 66 ; 24b , 8x4 , 3x6 ) was at his rampaging best and punctured the short boundaries with the rapidity of machine-gun fire to wrest back the initiative for Kings XI . The win helped Kings XI Punjab consolidate their position at the top of the table with 14 points while RCB stayed put at the lower end of the table with six points . The match , the first of RCB 's three back-to-back matches at home , has gone wrong and the team will now have to play out of their skins in their remaining matches . Sharma , the Kings XI right-arm medium pacer who predominantly swings the ball away from the left hander , got Gayle and Virat with identical deliveries , except that one of the batsmen was a left-hander and the other a right hander . Virat , who inner edged an attempted leg glance , was dismissed off the first ball he faced. Yuvraj , who came in at the ball of Sachin Rana 's wicket looked anything but assured and it was only a matter of time before he was put out of his misery . The battle of the two red brigades seemed to be lopsided when Kings XI were off to a rollicking start. But RCB pulled back through some excellent bowling by Yuzvendra Chahal ( 2/23 ) and Albie Morkel ( 1/20 ) . STORY OF THE MATCH TURNING POINT Miller 's hit : David Miller brought his A game onto the park in the Garden city on Friday and he was in the mood to hit balls out of the park. He hit three sixes and eight fours and one of the sixes off Harshal Patel went out of the ground and sailed far and wide . 18.66 Harshal 's Economy Rate : The RCB seamer who has a habit of picking up key wickets was taken to the cleaners on Friday. He conceded 56 runs off three overs including 26 in the 16th over which was the most expensive over of the season . TALKING POINT Despite having a batting line-up to die for and being on home turf , one wonders why RCB skipper Virat Kohli is obsessed about chasing down totals. He allowed a rampant Kings line-up a chance to take first strike on a batting beauty . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virat Kohli,Sandeep Sharma,Kings XI Punjab,Glenn Maxwell,David Miller Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
