Faf lauds MS Dhoni 's leadership skills K Shriniwas Rao K Shriniwas Rao,TNN | Apr 24 , 2014 , 10.00 AM IST " Dhoni has been exceptional as a captain and his record speaks for him , " Du Plessis said. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED SHARJAH : The Chennai Super Kings franchise is overflowing with captains from four different countries but the general consensus is that there 's only one leader . Faf du Plessis ( South Africa ) , Dwayne Bravo ( West Indies ) , Brendon McCullum ( New Zealand ) and MS Dhoni form the nucleus of the CSK side and though Bravo will most likely miss out on the rest of the IPL , the other two have no doubt whatsoever that despite their individual credentials , Dhoni is the team 's undisputed leader . " We actually talked about it before the game that we have four international captains in the squad and it is nice that we have a good experience and a good brains trust , " says Chennai 's South African import Du Plessis . " Dhoni the most successful of them all , " points out Du Plessis , reminding of the number of trophies - the World T20 , World Cup , the Champions Trophy and India 's elevation to the No. 1 Test ranking - Dhoni has collected in the last eight years . " MS is the leader of the team and although we are captains of our own respective national teams , in CSK he is the only leader. He has been exceptional as a captain and his record speaks for him. We all respect that , " Du Plessis says . The Proteas skipper is among the few players in the Chennai Super Kings camp who had the experience of playing in the United Arab Emirates before the IPL jamboree landed here. For that reason alone , Du Plessis ' input on how to go about things here was something the CSK team management had asked for . " There was a little bit of chat on the conditions before the tournament. Now we all have a better idea of what to expect and also the wickets have played different at different times , " says the 29-yr-old adding , " The day games have been different from the ones played in the night. Now we have seen what the conditions are like and they are helping us prepare accordingly. " The Chennai Super Kings team boasts of a very good batting line-up at the moment. Du Plessis says it gives MS the opportunity to work his strategies . " We have a good strong batting line-up and there were always good finishers. Now it 's heavy at the top too. As for me , I keep floating somewhere in the middle ( of the batting order ) depending on where I fit in , " he says . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = MS Dhoni,Faf du Plessis,Dwayne Bravo,Chennai Super Kings,Brendon McCullum Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
