Praising skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni , Pandey said he felt confident because of him. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED SHARJAH : He played an important role in Chennai Super Kings ' crushing win over Delhi Daredevils in an IPL match , but pacer Ishwar Pandey says he did not do anything special and it was the fielders who made his effort look better . Pandey delivered figures of 4-0-23-2 in just his first match for CSK , which the team won by 93 runs , but chose to play it down . " We are a great fielding side who had a bad outing in the last match. We were motivated to correct that and it showed in the catches our fielders pulled off today , " Pandey told IPL 's official website . " I did n't do anything special with the ball today. It was our fielders who made us bowlers look good. When you bowl a bad ball and your teammates put their bodies on the line to save runs for you , as a bowler , you feel motivated to better your performance and correct your line and length , " he said . " That 's what a good fielding unit does to a bowler - it helps him improve his own performance. " Praising skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni , Pandey said he felt confident because of him . " Today , when I went on the field , he told me at once , 'Tell me whatever field you want and whenever you want to make any changes to it. Feel free to form your own plans and bowl according to them. I am here to facilitate you in every way ' , " the pacer revealed . Pandey spoke about his experience of being with the CSK players and bowling at some of the team 's top batsmen in the nets . " Brendon McCullum hits insane shots everywhere. No matter where you bowl at him , he will plonk you all around in the nets. Dwayne Smith is another very dangerous batsman to bowl to. Without the nets , they are capable of hitting the ball outside the stadium , " he said . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = IPL,Mahendra Singh Dhoni,Ishwar Pandey,Dwayne Smith,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
