First leg of IPL 7 throw up surprise heroes Prasad Ramasubramanian Prasad Ramasubramanian,TNN | May 1 , 2014 , 10.12 AM IST Chahal is the second-most economical bowler in the tournament. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED CHENNAI : They were unknown commodity not too long ago , but the first leg of IPL 7 has given birth to new stars . The likes of Yuzvendra Chahal ( Royal Challengers Bangalore ) , Ishwar Pandey ( Chennai Super Kings ) , Suryakumar Yadav ( Kolkata Knight Riders ) , Sandeep Sharma ( Kings XI Punjab ) and Kane Richardson ( Rajasthan Royals ) have proved to be surprise packages in the season so far . Chahal has been RCB skipper Virat Kohli 's go-to man this season. The 23-year-old Haryana leg-spinner is the second-most economical bowler in the tournament , pocketing 5 wickets from as many games at an impressive 5.31 runs an over. " He ( Chahal ) has been doing a tremendous job for us. I have told him to keep attacking and it 's great to see him bowl well , " Kohli said . For two-time champions Chennai Super Kings , pacer Ishwar Pandey has done well. The 24-year-old may have just picked 3 wickets from 4 clashes , but his impressive economy-rate of 5.86 has meant that batsmen have failed to get going against him . He came in place of Ashish Nehra after the first game and Pandey showed that he is up for the challenge , doing well with the new ball. " The new boys are gelling in well and that 's a plus for us , " MS Dhoni said during CSK 's four-match winning streak at UAE . Just like Chahal and Pandey , Sandeep and Richardson have n't been too far behind. Sandeep has added firepower to Kings XI 's bowling attack , taking 7 wickets from 3 games at an average of 8.85. His skipper George Bailey has been effusive in his praise for the 20-year-old. " It 's great to see him develop , and he has got great confidence in what he wants to do which makes my job easier , " Bailey said . Rajasthan 's Richardson , who was with Sahara Pune Warriors last season , too has made his mark with 6 scalps from 4 matches. After the nail-biting finish against Kolkata Knight Riders , Rajasthan skipper Shane Watson mentioned how James Faulkner and Richardson kept their nerve during tense moments. " It is good to see Kane ( Richardson ) and James ( Faulkner ) deliver tidy stuff in the closing stages of the match , " Watson said . Suryakumar Yadav was a surprise pick for KKR in the auctions ahead of the home boys like Manoj Tiwary and Laxmi Ratan Shukla , but the Mumbai youngster has shown the temperament of a good finisher . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Yuzvendra Chahal,Suryakumar Yadav,Sandeep Sharma,Kane Richardson,Ishwar Pandey Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
