Gautam Gambhir says he is focused on the tournament ahead and not thinking about the Indian team 's upcoming England tour or the 2015 World Cup. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : After regaining form with hat-trick of half centuries in the ongoing IPL , Kolkata Knight Riders skipper Gautam Gambhir says he is focused on the tournament ahead and not thinking about the Indian team 's upcoming England tour or the 2015 World Cup . The Indian team discard started this IPL season with three consecutive ducks but has certainly led by example in the last few games. He , however , said that he does n't take IPL as a comeback platform . " I still stand by my thought that the IPL is not a platform for comebacks but it is a great tournament , which I thoroughly enjoy playing and I am doing my best for the team , " Gambhir , who last played an international match against England in Dharamshala in January 2013 , told PTI in an interview . When asked if India 's tour of England in June and the World Cup Down Under are on his radar to make a comeback , he said he was not thinking about it right now . " Right now I am only focused on the immediate future and doing well for the team. If my performances are good enough I am sure people in charge - selectors - will make the right decision , " he said . He also said that he believes in responding through performance as far as critics are concerned . " As a player you realise that criticism is always going to be there especially if the results are not going your way. I personally feel the best way to respond to it is by going out there and performing to the best of your ability , " said the opener , who has scored 4021 and 5238 runs in 54 Tests and 147 ODIs , respectively . The Kolkata opener is also confident of contributing to the team 's cause once he gets a good start . " It is a good feeling to have a few runs under my belt now. I was always confident that once I got a good start I would be able to convert those into scores that would help the team and I am glad that I have been able to do that in last few games. Looking forward to continue the good run for the rest of the tournament , " he said . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = IPL,Kolkata Knight Riders,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
