Focus on IPL 's guiding lights Ehtesham Hasan Ehtesham Hasan,TNN | Apr 13 , 2014 , 12.19 AM IST If Mumbai Indians boast of a coach John Wright and mentor Anil Kumble , Delhi Daredevils have on board Gary Kirsten , who helped India win the World Cup. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : With so many high-profile coaches pitting their wits against each other , fans can expect some absorbing tactical tussles in IPL-7 . If defending champs Mumbai Indians boast of a coach of the calibre of John Wright and a mentor like Anil Kumble , the Delhi Daredevils have on board Gary Kirsten , the man who worked diligently behind the scenes to help India win the 2011 World Cup . Then , down south , Stephen Fleming , the quiet , unassuming New Zealander who has been a perfect guide for MS Dhoni at Chennai Super Kings , will have to find ways to outwit a former teammate — the phlegmatic but highly cerebral Daniel Vettori , who has given up his playing gear temporarily ( we presume ) to shepherd Virat Kohli at the Royal Challengers Bangalore . Rajasthan Royals , big believers in the motivation quotient , have wisely not let Rahul Dravid go anywhere. The legend , who got the young Indian players to punch well above their weight as a captain last season , notwithstanding the controversy surrounding his side , will be mentoring the Royals for this edition . If that is n't interesting enough , Tom Moody , backed by an enduringly positive VVS Laxman , will be in charge of Sunrisers Hyderabad , a side that is packed with match-winners much like Kolkata Knight Riders , who have Australian Trevor Bayliss and Wasim Akram at the helm of affairs. What 's more , Sanjay Bangar is now seen as the man with the plan after he tabled his cards smartly for Kings XI Punjab in the auctions . Former India opener-turned-commentator Aakash Chopra says he will be interested in knowing how Dravid and Bangar fare . " I will be very interested to see how Rahul actually does. Rahul is someone who I 've worked with closely and have been associated with. I 've liked the way he has captained the side. Whether he will be able to change things around , sitting outside , keeping in mind that Shane Watson will be the guy who will be taking all the decisions in the middle , will be something to ponder. It will be interesting to see how the coach-captain dynamics work. Other than that , even Sanjay Bangar could be that guy. He is an unknown commodity , but he is the only Indian guy who has been given complete authority , " says Chopra . There are some who argue that coaches , as opposed to the captains , have a very limited role to play in T20s. While that ca n't be denied given the rapid nature of the format , where a captain needs to think on his feet , coaches do have a very important role to play as far as preparations are concerned . " It will be a more competitive tournament , " says Chopra , before adding , " It has little to do with tactical acumen , but more with the dynamics of the tournament . " A few teams retained a lot of players and uncapped domestic cricketers went into the pool. Basically , it means that no team is a runaway favourite. Each team has some weakness or the other. When that 's the case , it automatically becomes a more competitive tournament. " The IPL schedule is knitted in such a way that the players ca n't put in long hours of practice between matches. The time between two matches is used up for travel , rest and recovery , with some light training sessions thrown in. Plus , the unknown Indian players will pose a challenge to a coach like Kirsten , who will find himself in a completely new environment than the one he was used to as an international coach . " Kirsten is a seasoned campaigner. He 's not a greenhorn , so you would expect him to change things. You would need more of a man-manager at that point of time than a coach. After all , how much can a coach do in a 40-day tournament ? " KP 's captaincy will also be tested because there are a few unknown Indian cricketers and it is how he deals with them and how many opportunities he gives them that may make or break their season , " says Chopra . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Mumbai Indians,Kolkata Knight Riders,John Wright,Gary Kirsten,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
