Gambhir has had a disastrous run scoring 0 , 0 , 0 , 1 in the first four games. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED ABU DHABI : Kolkata Knight Riders assistant coach Vijay Dahiya insists there is no danger to Gautam Gambhir 's place in the side even as the captain continues to battle poor form in the Indian Premier League . Though Dahiya backed Gambhir to come good later in the tournament , he conceded that the left-hander not scoring runs is a worry for the team . " If you ask me , Gautam is our best batsman and there are no two ways about it that if your best batsman is not in form , it is a problem for the team , " said Dahiya before Knight Riders ' final game in the UAE against Rajasthan Royals . " But we know him and we know that he will come back to his best. It will be a different team when he starts scoring runs at the top. There is not a single talk about his place in the side. Let 's not forget that he is not only one of our batsmen but also our leader. He has led the team very well and we need him in the mix , " said the former India wicket-keeper . Gambhir has had a disastrous run scoring 0 , 0 , 0 , 1 in the first four games . In fact , the Delhi batsman batted at number three after a streak of ducks at the top of the order but Dahiya reckoned it would be best for the team if Gambhir bats at his usual position . " Honestly , if you ask me , he is an opener and I would love to see him open the innings. The pressure will be there but what if he comes after two quick wickets have fallen ? He 'd feel even more pressure , " said Dahiya . Asked about another out of form batsman Yusuf Pathan , Dahiya said : " You can not deny the fact that he ( Pathan ) is not among runs and that is a big concern , for him and the team management. Let 's see if things improve in the next couple of games. " Dahiya concluded on a positive note , saying the bowling line-up comprising Morne Morkel and Sunil Narine will help Knight Riders progress in the tournament they won in 2012 . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Yusuf Pathan,Vijay Dahiya,Sunil Narine,Kolkata Knight Riders,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
