Glad IPL is being held outside India , says Yuvraj Singh K Shriniwas Rao K Shriniwas Rao,TNN | Apr 19 , 2014 , 12.30 AM IST Yuvi minced no words when he said on Thursday evening in UAE : " I 'm glad it 's ( the IPL ) outside India. I can concentrate on my game away from distractions. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED ABU DHABI : The last thing a distressed Yuvraj Singh needed in the immediate context of the game back in India was to bear the indignity of walking out to jeers and catcalls from certain dim-witted sections of the crowd - the kind who showed no hesitation in pelting stones at his home post the World T20 final loss in Bangladesh . He minced no words , whatsoever , when he said on Thursday evening here in the UAE : " I 'm glad it 's ( the IPL ) outside India. I can concentrate on my game , away from distractions and what people are talking , " he said . People have n't just talked but reacted in the ugliest ways possible that left the cricket scarred in his mind like never before. Despite being the costliest player at the auction early this year , the left-hander and his new team owner , Vijay Mallya , had been the subject of many a jokes in the social media - the former for his World T20 innings against Sri Lanka and the latter for buying Yuvraj at a massive Rs 14 crore . " The problem with our country is that people forget what you have done in the past. That 's the biggest problem in our country. They forget what the guys have done for their country , " Yuvraj said , finding his lost voice following a match-winning 52 off 29 balls for Royal Challengers Bangalore against Delhi Daredevils on Thursday. The innings , a blistering one , included five sixes and three fours . " I am not sad , " he added. " I am sad for those people who do such kind of things because if that 's the way you want to treat people who have brought laurels for your country , it 's their choice. It 's unfortunate that sometimes people react the way they react forgetting what has happened in the past , not in good taste. " The Punjab batsman says he 's in a far more comfortable space now , thanks to Virat Kohli 's suggestion that RCB was the place for him to be. With the likes of Kohli , Chris Gayle , AB de Villiers and some other accomplished names around , this was a franchise where Yuvraj could 've felt at home among the equals . " I thought I wanted to go to a place where I could express myself , and Virat and Zaheer always told me that RCB was a place where you could come and play the way you want , because there are so many dynamic players over here. You do n't have to worry about carrying on till the end alone , " says Yuvraj. The southpaw shares a special relation with the young Virat. " I have seen how his career has gone and I think he and I share a very good relationship on and off the field , " he says . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Yuvraj Singh,Royal Challengers Bangalore,IPL,Chris Gayle,AB de Villiers Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
