Corey Anderson holds the record for scoring the fastest ODI century. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : He was in the line of fire for not being able to deliver. On Saturday though , he brought cheer to the 18,000 underprivileged kids and a vociferous home crowd at the Wankhede to guide Mumbai Indians to their first win from six games in IPL 7. Mumbai Indians defeated table-toppers Kings XI Punjab by five wickets . Corey Anderson , who holds the record for scoring the fastest century , slammed a 25-ball 35 with three boundaries and two sixes besides picking the important wicket of Cheteshwar Pujara to be adjudged Man-of-the-Match. But coming from a horror show in the UAE leg , the hosts were under immense pressure and Anderson was glad he contributed to the all-important win . " There was pressure on us , no doubt. We had to win this match to get our campaign back on track. But one needs to understand that Twenty20 is a game of moments. I think we played the crucial moments better than our rivals , " Anderson told later . " I had not been doing well and I 'm happy that I could help my team win. Hopefully , people can see me in the same explosive self that they 've admired till now , " he added. The conditions were different vis-a-vis UAE and Anderson minced no words that the pitches in India suited him more . " The wickets were bouncier and hard. They had pace and I like to bat in such conditions. But it was too sweaty , " he said . Kings XI skipper George Bailey was of the opinion that they fell short by 20 runs . " A score in the excess of 180 could have been better. We slowed down in the final few overs and that did make a difference. But I do n't think we need to blame anybody. Boys like ( Wriddhiman ) Saha really played well when he was given an opportunity to bat before Miller , " Bailey said . Zaheer sustains shoulder injury While his team recorded their first win in IPL 7 , Mumbai Indians ' bowling mainstay Zaheer Khan sustained a shoulder injury on Saturday. The incident happened on the third ball of the 19th over when Zaheer attempted to york Kings XI Punjab 's David Miller . Just after his delivery , Zaheer was seen clutching his ribs and the area under his left shoulder before he escorted off the ground. The 35-year-old was in immense pain and West Indian Kieron Pollard was brought in to finish the remaining three balls of his over . It 's still unclear whether the injury is serious or can pass off as just a minor niggle. Even Zaheer 's Kiwi teammate Corey Anderson was not sure about it . " I have no idea what injury he had. I have not been able to talk to him after the match , " Anderson told reporters. When contacted , a Mumbai Indians official said the exact nature of injury can be ascertained only on Sunday . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Zaheer Khan,Mumbai Indians,Kings XI Punjab,George Bailey,Corey Anderson Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
