HDFC boss Parekh appointed special adviser to Gavaskar PTI | Apr 11 , 2014 , 05.58 PM IST Deepak Parekh will set direction for better IPL : Gavaskar RELATED SC slams Dhoni , says Gavaskar should take over as BCCI president NEW DELHI : The interim president of BCCI-IPL Sunil Gavaskar on Friday appointed Housing Development Finance Corporation ( HDFC ) chairman Deepak Parekh as his special advisor for the seventh edition of the Indian Premier League . Parekh will be a special invitee during the IPL governing council meeting as his vast expertise in financial affairs will enable Gavaskar to ensure smooth functioning of IPL affairs for the next two months . In a BCCI media release , Parekh has been dubbed as " unofficial crisis consultant of the Government. His role as Special Director on the Satyam Board in 2009 , to revive the company and restore the confidence in the Indian IT industry , was greatly acknowledged. " " Mr Parekh has always been willing to share his ideas and experience to formulate reform policies across sectors. This , at times , has also meant advising the Government to take hard decisions , " the BCCI press release said . " It is this quality of being a trouble-shooter that has made him a guiding force and an active member of various high-powered Economic Groups , Government-appointed Advisory Committees and Task Forces , " it said . Former India opener Gavaskar was appointed the interim president of the BCCI-IPL following a direction from Supreme Court as N Srinivasan was asked to step aside from his post pending the completion of the IPL spot-fixing enquiry. Senior vice president Shivlal Yadav was made interim President for non-IPL matters . Gavaskar expressed his delight at the development as Parekh took up his offer . " I am delighted that Deepak has accepted my invitation to come on board as a special advisor and special invitee to the Indian Premier League Governing Council. It is apt that an individual of the calibre of Mr Parekh will be joining the BCCI-IPL 's leadership group. " According to Gavaskar , Parekh 's " diverse combination of skills and experience will result in a well-rounded senior management team at the IPL - one that will set the direction for a better and bigger league. " The chairman of the IPL Governing Council Ranjib Biswal is also hopeful that Parekh 's experience will help them deliver a " memorable IPL " . Parekh on his part stressed on his endeavour to strengthen the IPL with his inputs in a new role . " I am excited to be invited to be a part of the IPL. I look forward to fulfilling this challenging new role on the IPL 's senior leadership team as an advisor to Mr. Gavaskar , as we look to strengthen the Indian Premier League. " Parekh has been honoured with several awards including the prestigious Padma Bhushan in 2006 and 'Knight in the Order of the Legion of Honour'-- one of the highest distinctions conferred by the French Republic , in 2010 . He was also the first international recipient of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales ' Outstanding Achievement Award , in 2010 . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunil Gavaskar,Shivlal Yadav,IPL 7,HDFC,Deepak Parekh Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
