" Kevin Pietersen has been my idol and it will be a great honour for me to play under his captaincy. I am sure , I will learn a lot from him , " said Tiwary. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED KOLKATA : Injuries have always come at the wrong time for Bengal batsman Manoj Tiwary , who has repeatedly missed out on the action after being in the mix for a India berth. The former Bengal skipper missed the entire 2013-14 domestic season due to a knee injury. Tiwary , who was picked up by the Delhi Daredevils at the IPL players ' auctions in February , will be turning out for the franchise for the second time , having played for them in the first two editions of the T20 event before switching allegiance to Kolkata Knight Riders in 2010 in a swap deal. The stylish right-hander spoke to TOI about his injury-related heart-breaks and the upcoming IPL-7. Excerpts : Importance of IPL-7 for you.. . It will be very important. I have been out of action for about seven months. I need to make a fresh start and the IPL provides me with a big platform to get noticed again . How did you cope with the injury ? It was quite frustrating as there is little you can do when you are injured. I have always been one of the fittest guys in the team , but I had been badly hit by injuries. So you have to accept that and keep faith and hope that you will again get a chance. I have listened to motivational speeches on the net and read about amazing comeback stories of players to keep my spirit up during this period . It must be difficult to get over a knee injury for a batsman ? A batsman has to shift his body weight from one leg to the other while playing shots. Knees play a very important role. I am okay now and got some runs in the Vijay Hazare and Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 meets. But the IPL will be hectic. There will be back-to-back matches and a lot of traveling. I am confident of getting through the grind . Your take on the Daredevils.. . I am really excited to be playing for the Delhi Daredevils again. I am eager to work with their magnificent support staff. I was not with the Indian team when Gary Kirsten was the coach but my fellow-players spoke highly about him. I am sure he ( Gary ) will help me get over my shortcomings. Then we have Eric Simons and TA Sekhar sir. They are all very good professionals and I am eager to work with them . And what about the players ? Kevin Pietersen has been my idol and it will be a great honour for me to play under his captaincy. I am sure , I will learn a lot from him. I feel we have a strong team and we hope to do well . What do you reckon would be your ideal number to bat ? It 's for the team management to decide. However , in a T20 match , it 's always good to bat up the order as you get the play maximum balls that way. I would prefer that but I am ready to bat at any position the team management wants me to . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = IPL,Syed Mushtaq Ali,Manoj Tiwary,Kevin Pietersen,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
