Hoping to sing the redemption song Dwaipayan Datta Dwaipayan Datta,TNN | Apr 12 , 2014 , 12.07 AM IST Gambhir had led KKR to the title in 2012 and it was the dip in his form that let Shah Rukh Khan 's men down last season. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED CHENNAI : The Indian Premier League is all about opportunities — not just for the young and talented but also for those who are looking to make a mark all over again. There have been instances in the past when players who have n't been in the reckoning for a while have suddenly found a fresh lease of life through IPL . This year 's tournament is significant all the more , because the countdown to the 2015 World Cup starts from here. There are players who know that a successful IPL will make a world of difference to them if they are to stay in the reckoning and clinch that coveted berth in eight months ' time . On top of that list is Gautam Gambhir , the captain of Kolkata Knight Riders. The left-hander has fallen off the selectors ' radar in the last one year , but he must have noticed even in the recently-concluded T20 World Cup in Bangladesh , that India do n't have a settled opening pair. Shikhar Dhawan has been a little erratic of late and Gambhir might just see a window of opportunity . " The selectors obviously keep a keen eye on the IPL. It has an immediate impact and players like Gambhir will keep that in mind , " former chairman of selectors , Krishnamachari Srikkanth told TOI . Gambhir had led KKR to the title in 2012 and it was the dip in his form that let Shah Rukh Khan 's men down last season. There will be huge responsibility on the Delhi man and he will stand to gain as much as KKR if he finds form in the next one-and-a-half months . If Gambhir is No. 1 on the list of comeback hopefuls , there 's another man for whom this IPL is a somewhat make-or-break event. Virender Sehwag 's ( in pic , right ) career has been in a free-fall over the last one season , but he still harbours dreams of a comeback. He had a poor domestic season and even his home franchise Delhi Daredevils did n't retain him . But in Kings XI Punjab , he will get the opportunity to express himself. He has n't been burdened with captaincy , but coach Sanjay Bangar had said that decision was arrived at after consulting Viru. Bangar , along with captain George Bailey , have made it clear that they will seek Sehwag 's advice when required . " Sehwag is a great player who knows how to score in this format. You can never discount his calibre and experience , " Srikkanth felt . The IPL will also offer Harbhajan Singh a chance to show that he still has it in him to test international batsmen. The team for the England series will be selected right after the IPL and Sandeep Patil & Co will keep in mind that India still lack a match-winning spinner in Tests. While Anil Kumble feels Amit Mishra has shaped up as India 's No. 1 spinner , the feisty Bhajji , leading the Mumbai Indians spin attack , wo n't go down without a fight . He might want to look back to 2009 and take the example of Ashish Nehra. The Delhi left-arm pacer had lost his place and was n't even close to making a comeback when the IPL in South Africa started. But the left-armer 's performances in the IPL in South Africa brought him back for the ODI series against West Indies that followed the World T20 in England. He also went on to play the 2011 50-over World Cup . " Nehra 's is definitely a case in point. I remember he had done well in One-dayers for Delhi too that season , but the IPL performance was the clincher , " Srikkanth said . India 's search for a pace bowling all-rounder is still on and that 's why Irfan Pathan ( in pic ; left ) will eye this IPL as a huge opportunity. He has been picked by Sunrisers Hyderabad team and will be guided by the likes of Chika , VVS Laxman and Tom Moody. If the younger Pathan can work up a decent pace and get some runs with the bat , MS Dhoni might just be tempted to look at him with renewed interest keeping in mind the seamer-friendly conditions of Australia and New Zealand . Yuvraj Singh 's situation is a little tough though. He is the fall guy of Indian cricket at the moment. Many pundits have predicted that the World T20 final will mark the end of Yuvraj 's international career , but if ever there was a tournament that could keep Yuvi 's career alive , it 's the IPL . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = VVS Laxman,Irfan Pathan,IPL 7,Harbhajan Singh,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
