How yoga helped Punjab almost become Kings Gaurav Gupta Gaurav Gupta,TNN | Jun 2 , 2014 , 09.14 AM IST Mumbai-based yoga guru Eknath received a positive feedback from Sehwag. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : Kings XI Punjab , who played their maiden IPL final on Sunday , were the team to beat this season. Always an underdog before IPL 7 , Preity Zinta 's side stole everyone 's hearts with its sizzling performances . While the presence of star players helped , what caught the eye was that the side played with a self-belief , especially against bigger outfits , which was hitherto lacking. That self-belief was instilled due to a 'winning mantra ' introduced to them by Mumbai-based yoga guru , Eknath alias Amit Kumar , before the tournament . Eknath imparts teachings of the 'Satyanand yoga, ' also known as the 'Bihar School of Yoga.' The 'Bihar School of Yoga, ' located in Munger , is the first deemed Yoga University in the world. Sportspersons practising yoga , which came into existence thousands of years back , is n't a unique thing. It helps them improve their powers of concentration and reduce stress . In India , star golfer Arjun Atwal and the national team 's archers have practised 'Satyanand yoga, ' over the years . " It inspired me to teach the cricketers about it , " Eknath told TOI on Sunday. " I am thankful that coach Sanjay Bangar and the players liked the sessions , " he said . The yoga guru gave the players 'winning mantras, ' while practising meditation , which they had to recite thrice a day. " I had interest in yoga , but did n't know much about 'Yoga Nidra. ' I did n't know that if you keep a sankalp ( purpose ) , it never fails , " said Bangar . Eknath also received positive feedback from Sehwag. " He said that he ignored yoga when he came into the Indian team , but , at 35 , he had found that it helps you improve fitness. " http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virender Sehwag,Sanjay Bangar,Kings XI Punjab,Bihar School of Yoga,Arjun Atwal Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
