" This is just a new chapter in my life. I 'll go out there and enjoy my cricket. I love the IPL and the competition in it , " said Delhi Daredevils captain Kevin Pietersen. ( Getty Image ) RELATED NEW DELHI : Few batsmen can match Kevin Pietersen 's aura. He was one of the pillars of the England team for the better part of the last 10 years. However , England , for reasons better known to them , have turned their back on this world-class player. But world cricket 's loss has been may turn out to be Delhi Daredevils ' gain as captain Pietersen guides them in IPL-7. The former England captain spoke to TOI on Tuesday about the new chapter in his life. Excerpts.. . You are getting back to the field after a gap of about four months. Will you have a point to prove when you lead Daredevils in IPL-7 starting next week ? I do n't play cricket to make any point. This is just a new chapter in my life. I 'll go out there and enjoy my cricket. I love the IPL and the competition in it. I have played 104 Tests , played everywhere and played for over 10 years , so I do n't need to prove anything to anyone. My aim will be to help Daredevils perform at their best this season , set high standards and if we can achieve something together it 'll be fantastic . How have you prepared yourself for the rigours of IPL ? Graham Ford ( Surrey coach ) has been my mentor and whenever I have had any trouble in my career I go to him for advice. So I have been meeting quite a bit with him at the Oval and thankfully the weather has been quite great to get a few quality net sessions . The reputation of the IPL has taken a beating after the match-fixing scandal last year. Do you as a player get affected by such controversies ? I am a player and I only do what happens on the cricket field , in training and in the dressing rooms. What happens off the cricket field has got nothing to do with me. My job will be to mould a young side for a successful campaign in the tournament . As a captain is there responsibility to guide the players in face of such controversies ? I ca n't do anything as captain when a guy is in his bedroom or anywhere else. There is nothing anybody can do. You are who you are as a person. If you cheat and fix matches there is no place in the game for you and you should never play cricket. I love cricket and it 's given me a wonderful life. There have been ups and downs and it 's been an incredible and honest journey. I have always gone out every day trying to beat a bowler on the field . Will there be extra pressure of captaincy ? It brings a little bit of pressure but I have had that pressure my whole career. So I am not too fazed about it . How are you developing a connection with Daredevils coach Gary Kirsten ? I flew to Cape Town a couple of weeks ago and spoke with Gary at length. We discussed some plans and the way ahead for us. Both of us are very relaxed and have similar drive. We want players to be the best that they can possibly be. Some players are going to be in form and some not , but that 's the way of life. We just want everyone to blend together and have a good time . You must have heard how your good friend Yuvraj Singh copped a lot of criticism. Do you think all of it is justified ? I saw he ( Yuvraj ) has been under a bit of pressure. I believe there are people in life riding a good wave and people who come off a wave. You have got to give them some slack occasionally and praise them when it is due. Life 's like that and Yuvi understands that and people who do n't understand that need to understand that ! You have played in a few teams around the IPL over the years. Do you think it is a good platform to learn and share from cricketers ? A few years back I was struggling with left-arm spinners , which was well documented in the media. I had an e-mail conversation with Rahul Dravid and told him it was n't a big issue but the media was making it out to be one. I asked him for some tips and insights since he is one of the finest batsman in the world. I got some great e-mails from Rahul and playing left-arm spinners has been a breeze since then. This was only made possible because of how we got to interact during the IPL . Daredevils has been the only team to have decided to build their side from scratch in IPL-7. Is that a hurdle ? I do n't think it 'll be an issue at all. Most of the internationals will blend in with the side in Dubai on Saturday. We 'll have 3-4 days to get together before we play a practice game on April 15. I have played in IPL before and turned up a couple of days before the tournament. For RCB , I flew down straight from Caribbean into the first match in SA and did n't even know a lot of my teammates ' names. This time we have about 8-10 days to come together as a side . IPL heads to UAE for the first time and you are one of the few cricketers with experience in those conditions. What will your advice be to young cricketers ? Dubai is very similar to Indian conditions. Abu Dhabi was low , slow and cracked. So Abu Dhabi is totally different to Dubai and I have never played in Sharjah. Mushy ( Mushtaq Ahmed ) tells me that Sharjah is really flat — one of the flattest in the world. So overall it should be good for the batsmen . Daredevils side has been packed with pace bowlers. Will the lack of spin options hurt the side in subcontinent conditions ? I do n't think this is a major concern for the side. ( Shahbaz ) Nadeem is our team 's little superstar and Rahul Sharma has played cricket for India. You can never line a leggie up if he has a good leg-spinner , a top-spinner and googly. That 's why someone like Amit Mishra was so successful in World T20 . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Yuvraj Singh,Rahul Sharma,Kevin Pietersen,Delhi Daredevils,Daredevils coach Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
