Pujara knows he needs more power in his strokes. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : Cheteshwar Pujara 's non-inclusion in India 's limited-overs scheme of things has been a topic of debate over the past year. However , his 38-ball 40 for Kings XI Punjab in a high-pressure chase against Rajasthan Royals shows he may have a way to go yet in the shortest T20 format . " I am not satisfied with my innings against Rajasthan Royals. Although I played the role assigned by the team , I did n't score as many runs as I should have , " Pujara told TOI on Monday . Pujara knows he needs more power in his strokes. " I want to stick to my game. But I need more power so that I can hit the odd boundaries when they are needed. I ca n't be as flamboyant as Viru ( Sehwag ) , Maxwell or Miller. I am not a match-winner in high-scoring matches. If I get more strength to hit boundaries , I can at least contribute more to a chase , " Pujara said . The Saurashtra batsman , however , knows the 50-over game is different and a spot in the 2015 WC side remains a target. " In ODIs , you need to construct an innings. Although playing T20s can help maintain the pace , there is no reason why playing technically correct ca n't work , " he said , adding that he was a better bet for playing ODIs overseas . " It 's always good to be in the playing XI. The Indian team management has a plan on when I should be played in ODIs. It 's a matter of time now. I think in overseas conditions , where the ball does a few things , you need a technically correct batsman , " he said . " I 'm new to this T20 format. What I lack most is experience. It 's difficult to switch to T20 mode from Tests. With experience , I have got better in Tests from the time I started playing for India. I believe it will be the same in this format too. I have been talking a lot to Virupa and George Bailey and getting to understand more about the game , " he said . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Rajasthan Royals,Kings XI Punjab,IPL,George Bailey,Cheteshwar Pujara Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
