In Indian leg , will Steven Smith be Royals ' trump card ? Shayan Acharya Shayan Acharya,TNN | May 1 , 2014 , 04.52 PM IST READ MORE Steven Smith | Shane Watson | Rajasthan Royals | Deep Dasgupta | Craig McDermott RELATED JAIPUR : For Australian all-rounder Steven Smith , it 's all in the mind. Having helped Rajasthan Royals clinch a thriller against Kolkata Knight Riders on Tuesday , the youngster has proven that T20 cricket is truly a thinking man 's game. Keeping his cool , the 24-year old ensured that the Royals win the battle of nerves and finish the UAE-leg on a happy note . Incredible it may sound , but for those who know Smith , this is n't anything new. Ask Australia 's bowling coach Craig McDermott , and he agrees that the young gun has improved a lot in the last couple of years . " Steven has done well in the T20 format , and has certainly improved in the longer version of the game as well. But I think he should focus a little more on his leg-spin. In Indian conditions , that could come in handy for Royals , " McDermott told TOI . McDermott , who played a pivotal role in Australia 's success in The Ashes , also believes that it 's his approach towards the game that 's helping Smith grow. " In the last few years , Steven has bettered his all-round skills. He is a very good fielder , and can deliver at any point of time. Hard work is finally paying off. " As the league returns to India , McDermott feels the Australian cricketers would continue their good run in the second-leg too. " With Maxwell very well suited in the T20 format and Smith in good quite form , things should be quite similar. In India , the wicket conditions will be like that of UAE , so they would be hoping to keep the momentum going. " While , McDermott feels it 's the change in approach that has helped Smith improve his game , former India cricketer Deep Dasgupta says it 's his clarity that makes the all-rounder stand out. Having seen him from close quarters during his stint with the Pune Warriors , Dasgupta feels Smith has a clear vision which is quite helpful. " Smith is pretty clear about what he wants and is extremely calm and composed even at the time of crisis , " the former team manager of the now defunct franchise , said . " When he joined the Pune outfit , he was another promising cricketer , but over the years he has proven his mettle. Being a brilliant learner of the game , Smith is always ready to analyse and that 's helping him in the long run , " Dasgupta pointed out . The former cricketer , however , is of the opinion that playing under the guidance of Rahul Dravid and Shane Watson is helping the Aussie. " I know what he is capable of doing , and he will certainly be one of the biggest trump cards for Royals in India-leg , " Dasgupta said . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Steven Smith,Shane Watson,Rajasthan Royals,Deep Dasgupta,Craig McDermott Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
