'Intense ' Gautam Gambhir trying too hard Arani Basu Arani Basu,TNN | Apr 28 , 2014 , 09.34 AM IST Gautam Gambhir has put in a huge effort in the last 18 months in order to make an international comeback. His intensity ca n't be doubted-be it on the field or off it. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : It is a fact that Gautam Gambhir likes to play cricket with intensity. This trait has helped him reach the pinnacle as an India player. However , it now seems to have become a bottleneck for him as he struggles to get into some form in the ongoing IPL. With just a solitary run from the four outings , the Kolkata Knight Riders captain is in a spot . " Gautam has always liked to take pressure because he feels it brings the best out of him. But now , it has become an anxiety issue. Had he been any other player , it would have been different. But with his status , reputation and the expectation of the IPL franchise , one tends to become too conscious and choke himself. That 's what is happening to him , " his childhood coach Sanjay Bhardwaj , who has been working with Gambhir throughout his exile from Team India , told TOI . When Virender Sehwag decided to step down the batting order during the last domestic season , Gambhir insisted he would never give up opening the batting. Now that he opted to come at No. 3 against Kings XI Punjab on Saturday , few would deny he was feeling the heat after three successive ducks . " Last time when I spoke to him , he said he needed a decent start to put a break to the poor streak. Perhaps , he thought he needed some time to settle down. I do n't see any harm in that. He needs to lighten up. But I believe one should not give up his position in the batting order. I am going to tell him that the next time we get to talk , " Bhardwaj said . Gambhir has put in a huge effort in the last 18 months in order to make an international comeback. His intensity ca n't be doubted-be it on the field or off it as it happened with the Delhi & District Cricket Association in the last domestic season . " That 's his nature. He is very involved in whatever he does. He needs to work on his patience. He is trying too much and making mistakes. But he should continue opening and realise that one innings can settle everything , " DDCA chief selector Chetan Chauhan told TOI . For a man who has played key roles in India 's two World title campaigns and played over 50 Test matches , the problem seems more mental. " Of late , he has been thinking too much and has taken issues too seriously. Even as captain of Delhi state team , he fought for the team. He has been very aggressive in the last one year. But he is learning to calm down , " Bhardwaj mentioned . " Scoring zero is not a problem but scoring zero three times in a row is a problem. It shows something is clearly wrong. It indicates that you doubt your ability. Bahar se aap kuch bhi bolo , par andar se aap darre hue ho , " said former India all-rounder Manoj Prabhakar , adding , " He is a good thinker of the game and a hardworking player but I feel sorry for him when I see him struggling like this as he is a very dear friend. " ( With inputs from Rohan Puri ) http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sanjay Bhardwaj,Manoj Prabhakar,Kolkata Knight Riders,Gautam Gambhir,Chetan Chauhan Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
