During the hour-long chaotic programme at the Eden Gardens , Gautam Gambhir & Co got relegated to the background. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED KOLKATA : It was supposed to be a felicitation function for the Kolkata Knight Riders , who won the Indian Premier League title for the second time in three years . However , during the hour-long chaotic programme at the Eden Gardens on Tuesday , Gautam Gambhir & Co got relegated to the background as Tollywood stars , politicians and government officials basked in reflected glory . KKR players , who arrived at the Eden Gardens at around 2.30pm , had to wait in the dressing room for over one hour as state CM Mamata Banerjee made a delayed entry. A technical snag delayed Shah Rukh Khan 's flight and KKR 's principal owner showed up at the ground only around 4pm , three hours behind the scheduled start of the hastily organised state felicitation function . Only allrounder Yusuf Pathan and leg-spinner Piyush Chawla made a brief appearance on the make-shift stage in front of the pavilion. KKR team members took a lap of honour around the ground in open-top SUVs. That was the only time the focus was on the players , who were cheered lustily by a 50,000-strong crowd that had been waiting patiently for a glimpse of their heroes since noon . Holding the glittering IPL trophy aloft , the Knights waved to the fans in thanksgiving amid a shower of confetti. With the programme getting off to a late start , it was a mad rush to get through the presentations. It adversely affected the tempo of the proceeding and it was left to the CM to play the emcee . The players , who were handed all sorts of gifts -- ranging from gold rings to Alphonso mangoes -- hardly had time to soak in the festive atmosphere and connect with fans as most of them had evening flights to catch . Fans thrashed outside Eden Earlier , chaotic scenes prevailed at Eden Gardens after police baton-charged fans who had gathered to take part in the ceremony. The ruckus was caused when fans were denied entry into the stadium. A stampede outside the stadium resulted in some fans and policemen getting injured and bloodied . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Piyush Chawla,Mamata Banerjee,Kolkata Knight Riders,Indian Premier League,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
