READ MORE Lasith Malinga | Kevin Pietersen | JP Duminy | Harbhajan Singh | Dinesh Karthik RELATED SHARJAH : Stuck at the bottom of the heap , defending champions Mumbai Indians will be desperate to open their account in the Indian Premier League on Sunday as they lock horns with Delhi Daredevils , who are also struggling to get going in the ongoing seventh edition of the cash-rich event . While Mumbai Indians are placed last with three defeats in as many games in the eight-team league , the Daredevils are a shade better at seventh with one win and three losses ahead of their next match at the Dubai International Stadium . Daredevils skipper Kevin Pietersen , who failed in his first attempt after missing the side 's first three matches , will be eager to put up a better show against the defending champions . The Delhi outfit will take confidence from the fact that its openers Murali Vijay and Quinton de Cock performed well in their last game against Sunrisers Hyderabad , helping the team close in on the chase of a competitive total before falling apart . The middle-order , including Pietersen and JP Duminy , will have to shoulder more responsibility against the Rohit Sharma-led side . The former England star Pietersen will be key to Daredevils ' chances , with support coming in from Dinesh Karthik , Duminy and Manoj Tiwary . Daredevils will have to improve their bowling as they could manage just one wicket against Sunrisers Hyderabad while giving away 184 runs . Mohammad Shami , Wayne Parnell and Jaydev Unadkat all leaked runs with Aaron Finch and David Warner going great guns . As far as Mumbai are concerned , Sharma led from the front with a superlative half-century in their last match , and they will hope for a similar outing from their captain . They have the ever-dependable Mike Hussey at the top of the order and equally threatening will be New Zealand 's batting sensation Corey Anderson . Kieron Pollard is also yet to set the stage ablaze with his power hitting . In the bowling department , experienced pros Zaheer Khan and Harbhajan Singh will need to bring in all their experience to effect a turnaround . And they also have the mercurial Lasith Malinga who has the ability to run through any batting line-up on his day . Pragyan Ojha is Harbhajan 's spin partner and Anderson and Pollard complete the bowling attack . Teams ( from ) : Mumbai Indians : Rohit Sharma ( C ) , Lasith Malinga , Kieron Pollard , Harbhajan Singh , Ambati Rayudu , Michael Hussey , Zaheer Khan , Pragyan Ojha , Corey Anderson , Josh Hazlewood , CM Gautam , Aditya Tare , Apoorv Wankhade , Marchant de Lange , Krishmar Santokie , Ben Dunk , Pawan Suyal , Sushant Marathe , Jasprit Bumrah , Shreyas Gopal , Jalaj Saxena . Delhi Daredevils : MA Agarwal , NM Coulter-Nile , Q de Kock , JP Duminy , KM Jadhav , KD Karthik ( C ) , S Kaul , Milind Kumar , Mohammed Shami , S Nadeem , JDS Neesham , WD Parnell , KP Pietersen , HS Sharath , R Sharma , LR Shukla , R Shukla , LRPL Taylor , MK Tiwary , SS Tiwary , JD Unadkat , M Vijay , J Yadav . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Lasith Malinga,Kevin Pietersen,JP Duminy,Harbhajan Singh,Dinesh Karthik Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
