The likes of Baba Aparajith ( CSK ) and Vijay Zol ( RCB ) will want to replicate their performances that have seen them catch the attention of the franchises. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED CHENNAI : As the seventh edition of the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) kicks off with the opener between defending champions Mumbai Indians and Kolkata Knight Riders in Abu Dhabi on April 16 , the arc lights will not only be on the big names , but also on the young guns . The likes of Baba Aparajith ( Chennai Super Kings ) and Vijay Zol ( Royal Challengers Bangalore ) will want to replicate their performances that have seen them catch the attention of the franchises. There are other youngsters who are itching to put their best foot forward . For starters , Sunrisers Hyderabad 's Ricky Bhui , the youngest member in the tournament at 17 years and 195 days , underwent a training schedule in Hyderabad before leaving for the UAE on Saturday. " I faced the likes of Irfan Pathan and Ishant Sharma in the nets. Our mentor VVS Laxman gave me tips on how to handle pressure while facing some of the biggest names in the tournament , " Bhui told TOI hours before he left . Bhui 's U-19 India teammate CV Milind , also part of the Sunrisers squad , felt that IPL 7 will be his biggest test yet. " Adaptability to the conditions and rising to the occasion will determine a player 's success in this competition , " he said . Handling pressure , according to chinaman bowler Kuldeep Yadav , will be the key. " That 's where experienced heads come into play. I want to learn how players of the calibre of Gautam Gambhir and Jacques Kallis withstand such high levels of pressure each time they take the field. Once you master it , things will fall in place. Also , being a fan of Sunil Narine , I am keen on learning how he plans a batsman 's dismissal , " said Yadav , who will be representing the Kolkata Knight Riders . Not only is the young brigade looking to learn from the best in business , they also share notes among themselves. " I had a word with Sanju ( Samson ) the other day since he did exceptionally well for the Rajasthan Royals last year. His only message was to focus on the ball , and not on the bowler. It made sense since we often tend to get subdued by a bowler 's reputation , " noted Bhui . Zol , who led India at the U-19 World Cup in UAE this February , is confident of mastering the conditions. " Having played there not long ago , I know what 's coming my way. IPL is a tournament that will put our skills to test. This is one tournament where you get to rub shoulders with the world 's best , and it 's important to utilise this opportunity , " Zol said . The youth brigade may be friends off the field , but trust them to go hard at each other when they are on the field representing their respective franchises . " Not an inch will be given or asked , " stressed Bhui . YOUNG GUNS WHO CAN MAKE A MARK Ricky Bhui : 17 years , Sunrisers Hyderabad CV Milind : 19 years , Sunrisers Hyderabad B Aparajith : 19 years , Chennai Super Kings Kuldeep Yadav : 19 years , Kolkata Knight Riders Ankush Bains : 18 years , Rajasthan Royals Sanju Samson : 19 years , Rajasthan Royals http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Vijay Zol,Sanju Samson,Ricky Bhui,IPL 7,Baba Aparajith Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
