Kings X1 Punjab 's Virender Sehwag and George Bailey run between the wickets against Kolkata Knight Riders during the IPL 7 match in Abu Dhabi , UAE. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED ABU DHABI : Kings XI Punjab continued their unbeaten run in IPL 7 as they defeated Kolkata Knight Riders by 23 runs and registered fourth successive victory in the league . Earlier , spinners Sunil Narine and Piyush Chawla outfoxed Kings XI batsmen with their web of spin as Kolkata Knight Riders restricted Punjab to a modest 132 for nine in an IPL 7 match on Saturday . Narine ( 3 for 24 ) and Chawla ( 3 for 19 ) snapped three wickets each as Kolkata Knight Riders produced a disciplined bowling display to test the table-toppers in their stipulated 20 overs . Put into bat , Punjab lost Cheteshwar Pujara ( 8 ) early in the second over when Manish Pandey 's direct throw from point found the opener short . Coming into bat at number three , wicket-keeper batsman Wriddhiman Saha ( 14 ) got a life early when a running Umesh Yadav spilled his catch but the Kolkata cricketer failed to make use of the chance . After a four and six , he was sent back into the pavillion by experienced Jacques Kallis , who trapped him infront of wicket on his first delivery . Glenn Maxwell then came into the crease much to the anticipation of his fans and the Australian obliged them with a reverse sweep off Sunil Narine for a boundary which also brought up the fifty for Punjab in 5.5 overs . But then the 25-year-old decided to throw away his wicket when he went for an over-ambitious shot on the leg side only to see his leg-stump go for a walk . David Miller then joined Sehwag but the South African 's 10-ball 14-run innings , which was studded with back-to-back fours off Kallis , was cut short by leg-spinner Chawla in the 10th over . Brought in the team in place of R Vinay Kumar , Chawla bamboozled Miller with a googly which the batsman failed to read and his slog ended up at the hands of Albie Morkel at long-on . Skipper George Bailey then joined hands with Sehwag as the duo slammed a boundary each off Yadav in the 11th over. The Delhi dasher then cut one at the point area off Chawla for another four . However , Chawla came back to remove both the batsmen -- Bailey and Sehwag -- in the 14th over . First , the Uttar Pradesh bowler dismissed Bailey ( 11 ) when he had him caught at the boundary line by Morkel. While one ball later , Sehwag ( 37 ) failed to read another googly from Chawla and was clean bolwed . Narine then mopped up the tail , picking up three wickets -- Akshar Patel ( 9 ) , Mitchell Johnson ( 0 ) and Lakshmipathy Balaji ( 0 ) -- in the first four balls of the 19th over as Punjab finished with a modest total on board . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunil Narine,Piyush Chawla,Kolkata Knight Riders,Kings XI Punjab,IPL 7 Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
