Dhoni-led CSK can safely be called one of the most consistent teams in the IPL. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : Chennai Super Kings captain MS Dhoni won the toss and chose to bat against Kings XI Punjab in their IPL 7 match at Sheikh Zayed Stadium in Abu Dhabi on Friday . The Chennai outfit , the most dominant team in the past three seasons , is still reeling under the spot-fixing scandal , in which some of its top officials have been implicated besides a few players also being under the scanner . CSK can safely be called one of the most consistent teams in the IPL . This year , CSK would be without some of their most reliable stars , including Australian mainstay Michael Hussey and South African Albie Morkel , after losing them in the players ' auction . But with replacements like New Zealand swashbuckler Brendon McCullum , CSK look formidable nonetheless . On the bowling front , West Indian leg-spinner Samuel Badree could prove to be an important player given that his confidence is sky-high after finishing as the third highest wicket-taker in the recent World T20 . Punjab have managed to instill balance and sheen to the side by making some smart purchases in the players ' auction . Punjab pulled off quite a masterstroke by snapping up India Test discard Virender Sehwag. Even though he is no longer in his prime but on his day , the Delhi-dasher is an enthralling game-changer capable of mortifying opposition attacks . Another masterstroke by KXIP at the auction was the purchase of Mitchell Johnson. The Australian speedster is in the form of his life and is likely to be worth every one of the Rs 6.5 crore that the KXIP splurged on him during the auction . Teams : Chennai Super Kings : MS Dhoni ( Capt. ) , Dwayne Smith , Brendon McCullum , Suresh Raina , Faf du Plessis , Dwayne Bravo , Ravindra Jadeja , R Ashwin , Pawan Negi , Ashish Nehra , Mohit Sharma . Kings XI Punjab : George Bailey ( Capt. ) , Virender Sehwag , Cheteshwar Pujara , Glenn Maxwell , David Miller , Wriddhaman Saha , Mitchell Johnson , Akshar Patel , Rishi Dhawan , Parvinder Awana , Lakshmipathy Balaji . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Suresh Raina,MS Dhoni,IPL 7,George Bailey,Chennai Super Kings vs Kings XI Punjab Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
