Brendon McCullum slammed an unbeaten 71 off 53 balls to help Chennai Super Kings crush title-holders Mumbai Indians by 7 wickets in their IPL match. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED DUBAI : The Mumbai Indians are the only team in the IPL now to have not won a match yet this season . But that is not what 's making them cut a very sorry figure on the field in the UAE. It has been a mix of poor batting , ordinary bowling and some very bad fielding lapses that 's hurting the defending champions , their team owners , coaches , support staff and of course the fans . The seven-wicket loss to Chennai Super Kings at the Dubai Cricket Stadium on Friday seemed like a highlight package of all that Mumbai Indians have done wrong so far in the tournament . The openers have looked listless - as they did against the CSK ; the bowlers have failed to figure their line and length - as Lasith Malinga & Co. showed while getting whacked all around the park ; and the fielders have dropped sitters to worsen the gloom - as Kieron Pollard spilling the catch at long-on suggested . In fact , Pollard running to take an easy catch at long-on while waving at a fielder running from mid-on to step aside , and then eventually dropping the easy one was a sore sight for the Mumbai Indians on Friday night. That drop alone seemed like a prologue of sorts to the miserable story they 've managed to script so far in the tournament . The Super Kings had little to do on Friday to win the match , except fielding first , bowling a good line , fielding the way they 've fielded so far in the tournament and chasing a paltry target. The rest was accomplished by the Mumbai Indians themselves to their own despair. Medium pacer Mohit Sharma ( 4/14 ) was the man of the match . Michael Hussey , MI 's new recruit this season and a former CSK star , has not even been a shadow of himself so far. Mr Cricket 's no-show has deeply affected MI 's prospects at the top of the order , especially with Sachin Tendulkar not around this year . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sachin Tendulkar,Mumbai Indians,Lasith Malinga,Chennai Super Kings,Brendon McCullum Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
