Royal Challengers Bangalore players Yuvraj Singh and Virat Kohli celebrate the wicket of Lasith Malinga of the Mumbai Indians during the IPL 7 match. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED DUBAI : Putting up an all-round show , Royal Challengers Bangalore humbled defending champions Mumbai Indians by seven wickets in their IPL Twenty20 match at the Dubai International Stadium on Saturday . After restricting Mumbai Indians to a modest 115 for nine , RCB cantered to their second successive win in the tournament in 17.3 overs . RCB though had a shaky start when left-handed opener Nic Maddinson was cleaned up by pacer Lasith Malinga for 16 and Zaheer Khan wreaked havoc in the very next over with two wickets . The left-arm pacer sent skipper Virat Kohli for a duck and trapped Sharjah hero Yuvraj Singh lbw for nought in the space of three deliveries . Wicketkeeper Aditya Tare though ruined Zaheer 's hat-trick chance when he dropped Yuvraj on the very next ball after Kohli 's dismissal . But Mumbai 's cheer was shortlived as Parthiv Patel and AB de Villiers soon got a grip of the situation to stitch a 99-run unbeaten partnership . Parthiv mixed the right dose of caution and aggression to score an unbeaten 57 off 45 deliveries. His innings was laced with seven boundaries . De Villiers at the other end played the sheet-anchor 's role to perfection , making an unbeaten 48-ball 45 with the help of three fours and two sixes . Earlier put into bat , Mumbai batsmen failed to counter the clinical bowling display by. The Mumbai openers started on a decent note but soon lost the plot against the RCB pacers . South African pacer Albie Morkel drew first blood after scalping Mike Hussey for 16 in the 4th over of the innings . Tare also could n't last long as pacer Varun Aaron induced a top-edge from the batsman which landed in the safe hands of Maddinson in the deep . Leg-spinner Yuzvendra Chahal then bowled a magnificent spell to bag two quick wickets , giving away just 17 runs in his quota of 4 overs . Mumbai skipper Rohit Sharma ( 2 ) was a prized scalp for the Haryana tweaker and soon the big-hitting Kieron Pollard also fell to his guile . Ambati Rayudu and Corey Anderson then tried to stem the rot , stitching together a 31-run fifth-wicket partnership , but Mitchell Starc sent the two batsmen back in the dug-out in his third over to choke MI . Rayudu was caught at long off for a fighting 35 as De Villiers took his second catch while Anderson followed him soon after to give Starc a hat-trick chance . The Australian left-arm pacer did not get the hat-trick but ended with impressive figures of 2/21 . Ashok Dinda joined the party when he packed Zaheer back for a duck and Mumbai slipped further . Harbhajan Singh tried to counter attack with a boundary in his run-a-ball eight-run stay but Aaron soon picked his second wicket . The win takes RCB into a position of strength very early into the tournament after their eight-wicket win against Delhi Daredevils in Sharjah while Mumbai certainly need to pull up their socks after their second successive loss . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virat Kohli,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Parthiv Patel,Mumbai Indians,IPL Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
