MCA had accepted all the 14 demands put forward by the IPL 's governing council to stage the match. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : This is a major heartbreak for the Mumbai cricket fans , and could result in relations between the BCCI and the MCA touching an all-time low . Despite the Mumbai Cricket Association accepting all the 14 'conditions ' spelt out by the IPL Governing Council in order to win back the IPL final , the latter on Saturday ruled that the summit clash , after all , will be held in Bangalore on June 1 , and not the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai . The IPL GC 's decision to stick to its guns is a major embarrassment for the MCA and its president , NCP supremo Sharad Pawar , who had written a protest letter against the move . It also shows how Mumbai , once known as the 'home of Indian cricket, ' has now lost clout in the current regime . " I was informed of the IPL GC 's decision by Sundar Raman ( IPL CEO ) , " MCA jt secretary PV Shetty told TOI. " We had to take a call quickly , because a lot of preparations are needed for a final , " said an IPL GC member . With MCA vice-president Ravi Savant currently in Germany and a few other officials not in town too , the MCA 's reaction to the IPL GC turning its plea down may not come till the Managing Committee ( MC ) meets sometime this week , but a few members have expressed anguish at the decision . " Mumbai has got step-motherly treatment. We accepted all their terms , including allowing superstar Shah Rukh Khan ( who was banned by the MCA from entering the Wankhede for five years in 2012 after an altercation with the officials ) inside the stadium for the final. We gave an arm and a leg for hosting this final , just because cricket should not suffer . But the BCCI has hurt the sentiment of Mumbaikars , " fumed MCA member Nadeem Memon . " We have rented out 20,000 sq ft to the BCCI for its Cricket Centre , and this is their attitude towards us. We have to think of strong steps now , " he said . A top source in the IPL GC , however , presented the other side of the story . " Firstly , we never imposed 'conditions ' for hosting the final , as the MCA claims. We had only expressed certain valid concerns. The only sane voice coming out of the MCA is of Pawar. There are several problems with the Wankhede , but we still chose to discuss the decision again because of regard for Pawar. We did n't want to bring out the issues in public because it would have resulted in embarrassment for the MCA , but it seems that they are hell-bent on embarrassing themselves. After Sachin Tendulkar 's 200th Test there , everyone in the BCCI agreed that it was a problematic venue , " he said . Elaborating the problems , the GC official said : " Till Saturday evening , they failed to provide us with police permission for playing music and bursting firecrackers after the 10 pm deadline . There are plenty of issues with the hospitality boxes at the Wankhede , which we ca n't afford to have , since we are expecting top dignitaries for the final ( including ministers from the UAE , where the first leg of IPL 7 was held ) . The UAE government extended phenomenal co-operation to us , and it is only right for us to return the favour. " Spelling out more issues , he said : " The broadcast control room in the basement is a 'fire trap ' and we have been telling them ( MCA ) about this for the last couple of years. The area we call the 'IPL operations room ' is incredibly small. They are saying SRK can come for the final. So , will he not be allowed if KKR plays a playoff game at Wankhede ? Frankly , we have no confidence in the venue 's ability to hold the final. " Another GC member expressed disappointment with the way MCA has reacted to the issue . " Someone threatened the BCCI president that Mumbai wo n't host league games also. They wrote to MI asking them to protest the shift , when MI has no say in the matter. MCA members returned their IPL accreditations in protest. On one occasion , IPL chairman Ranjib Biswal 's car was n't allowed to park inside. Then , they threatened the Cricket Club of India after we gave them a game , even though CCI is a BCCI member , and the MCA has no right to object in this case , " he said , adding : " We suspect that they may try to sabotage the 'Eliminator ' at CCI on May 28. " http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Shah Rukh Khan,Sanjay Patel,MCA,IPL,BCCI Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
