Punjab are sitting pretty as the only unbeaten team in the league in the UAE leg. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : Kings XI Punjab captain George Bailey won the toss and chose to bat against Mumbai Indians in their IPL match at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai on Saturday . The Wankhede was a mini fortress which could not be breached in eight attempts last year as MI went all the way to clinch the title for the first time . Kings XI Punjab , on the other hand , would be equally earnest to ensure that their five-match winning streak in the UAE is not snapped by last year 's champions . Punjab have batted , bowled and fielded extremely well in the first phase of the T20 League and another victory at the cost of the struggling MI would enhance their last four qualifying hopes which are already bright . It has been Mumbai 's batting , more than their bowling , which has caused their slump thus far in the tournament . MI have tried out a few opening combinations and failed miserably with captain Rohit Sharma , his Mumbai Ranji Trophy teammate Aditya Tare , former Australia cricketer Mike Hussey and new signing Ben Dunk , also an Aussie , all failing to get going . For MI to get their floundering campaign on track , all the top order batsmen need to find form quickly . Punjab , on the other hand , are sitting pretty as the only unbeaten team in the league in the UAE leg . For this top perch , they are indebted to Australian Glen Maxwell who has struck two brilliant 90s and another 89 to lead their batting might . Australian pace spearhead Mitchell Johnson and Sandeep Sharma have opened the bowling well and have got good support from the experienced L Balaji and Rishi Dhawan . Teams : Mumbai Indians : Rohit Sharma ( Capt. ) , Ben Dunk , Corey Anderson , Ambati Rayudu , Kieron Pollard , Aditya Tare , Harbhajan Singh , CM Gautam , Jasprit Bumrah , Zaheer Khan , Lasith Malinga . Kings XI Punjab : George Bailey ( Capt. ) , Cheteshwar Pujara , Virender Sehwag , Wriddhiman Saha , Glenn Maxwell , David Miller , Rishi Dhawan , Mitchell Johnson , Akshar Patel , L Balaji , Sandeep Sharma . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Rohit Sharma,Mumbai Indians,Kings XI Punjab,Glen Maxwell,George Bailey Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
