READ MORE Piyush Chawla | Jacques Kallis | Gautam Gambhir | Chris Lynn | Ajinkya Rahane RELATED ABU DHABI : Hit hard by the woeful form of its captain Gautam Gambhir , Kolkata Knight Riders would look for a turnaround in their fortunes when they take on Rajasthan Royals in an Indian Premier League match on Tuesday . Kolkata is struggling in their batting department with Gambhir having been dismissed for a duck thrice in the four matches he has led the team so far. He scored just one in Kolkata 's last match against leaders Kings XI Punjab , which his side lost by 23 runs . The 2012 edition champions have one of the strongest batting line-ups among the eight IPL teams but none of their batsmen , except Jacques Kallis and Manish Pandey , have been consistent so far. Their batting problem was compounded by the disappointing form of big hitter Yusuf Pathan , who has scored just 17 in the four outings till now . After a bright start in the tournament with a victory over defending champions Mumbai Indians , Kolkata have been finding it difficult to click as a team. Had it not been the stunning catch by Chris Lynn to dismiss A B de Villiers , Kolkata would have lost their match against Royal Challengers Bangalore on April 24 in Sharjah . Kolkata though still have time to come back with a bang as it is early days in the tournament and despite their inconsistent form , they are still in the third place in the league table with two wins from four matches . With the likes of mystery spinner Sunil Narine , highest wicket-taker so far this season with nine scalps to his credit , in fine touch and the bowling department comparatively doing well , Kolkata would be hoping to end the UAE leg of their campaign on a winning note o Tuesday . Just like Kolkata , Rajasthan also began their campaign with a victory but suffered two consecutive losses before winning their last match against Bangalore. They also have same points with Kolkata on four . Just like Kolkata , the Jaipur-based side have also been facing problems at the top with openers Abhishek Nayar and Ajinkya Rahane failing to give a strong start in the four matches they have played so far . The win against Bangalore in their last match must have boosted the confidence of Rajasthan , more so with their captain Shane Watson 's return to batting form and picking up a wicket in that match . Rajasthan 's bowling department , which does not have any big name , has been doing a fine job. Except against the rampaging Kings XI Punjab , the Rajasthan bowlers have restricted their opponents to modest totals and it will be interesting to see when they come up against the likes of Kallis and Gambhir on Tuesday . Pacer Rajat Bhatia and off-spinner Kane Richardson have been consistent while leg-spinner Pravin Tambe scalped four in Rajasthan 's thrashing of Bangalore in their last match . Teams ( from ) : Kolkata Knight Riders : Gautam Gambhir ( capt. ) , Jacques Kallis , Morne Morkel , Sunil Narine , Manish Pandey , Yusuf Pathan , Shakib Al Hasan , Robin Uthappa , Vinay Kumar , Manvinder Bisla , Piyush Chawla , Pat Cummins , Debabrata Das , Kuldeep Yadav , Chris Lynn , Sayan Mondal , Veer Pratap Singh , Andre Russell , Ryan ten Doeschate , Suryakumar Yadav , Umesh Yadav . Rajasthan Royals : Shane Watson ( capt. ) , Amit Mishra , Abhishek Nayar , Ajinkya Rahane , Kane Richardson , Sanju Samson , Steven Smith , Tim Southee , Pravin Tambe , Ankit Sharma , Ankush Bains , Rajat Bhatia , Stuart Binny , Unmukt Chand , Kevon Cooper , Ben Cutting , James Faulkner , Brad Hodge , Deepak Hooda , Iqbal Abdulla , Dhawal Kulkarni , Vikramjeet Malik , Karun Nair , Rahul Tewatia , Dishant Yagnik . Match starts : 8 pm IST . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Piyush Chawla,Jacques Kallis,Gautam Gambhir,Chris Lynn,Ajinkya Rahane Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
