Chris Lynn plays a shot during their IPL 7 match against Royal Challengers Bangalore in Sharjah on Thursday. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED SHARJAH : Kolkata Knight Riders beat Royal Challengers Bangalore by 2 runs in an exciting IPL match on Thursday . Chasing a modest 151-run target , Bangalore managed to score 148/5 in their 20 overs , thus missing the target by a whisker . Earlier , Knight Riders recovered to score 150 for seven after Varun Aaron 's three-wicket burst . RCB 's Aaron finished with impressive figures of 3/16 , while Chris Lynn ( 45 ) and Jacques Kallis ( 43 ) were the major contributors with the bat for KKR . Sent into bat , Kolkata Kinght Riders were off to another disastrous , losing skipper Gautam Gambhir for duck for the third straight time in the ongoing seventh edition of the cash-rich event . An 80-run second-wicket partnership between Kallis and Lynn ensued , before three quick wickets pegged the former champions back . Robin Uthappa ( 22 ) boosted KKR 's run rate with a couple of sixes , but could not last till the end. It was then left to Suryakumar Yadav ( 24 not out ) to take KKR to a decent total . The only difference with Gambhir 's dismissal this time around was that he was out for a golden duck , trapped in front of the wicket by a fast and full Mitchell Starc delivery off the third ball of the innings . Albie Morkel struck in the next over as Manish Pandey 's leading edge was easily taken by Virat Kohli at point , leaving KKR struggling at 10 for two in the second over . When the 24-year-old Lynn walked into bat , KKR were in a spot of bother , but that did not show in the manner the Aussie straightaway went about his task . RCB 's move to introduce Muttiah Muralitharan into the attack in the seventh over backfired , as the Sri Lankan veteran was smashed for two sixes by Lynn in his first over . Kallis swept Muralitharan over deep square leg after Lynn whacked Yuzvendra Chahal for a maximum over deep midwicket , where Starc completed the catch only to touch the ropes . The association was brought to an end after Aaron 's re-introduction. With the spinners going for runs , bringing back the pacer proved to be a successful move. Lynn 's flat-batted hit failed to clear A B de Villiers at long-off . Lynn struck three sixes and as many fours in his 31-ball knock at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium. Next man-in Yusuf Pathan lacked discretion , evidenced by his irresponsible shot off only the second ball he had faced. The result was a simple catch for Kohli at mid-off , the successful bowler being Aaron . Having used quite a few deliveries , Kallis fell while going for a biggie against Chahal . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virat Kohli,Varun Aaron,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Kolkata Knight Riders,IPL Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
