The match could possibly be the last chance for the Rohit Sharma-led Mumbai Indians to continue with Michael Hussey as the opener. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED ABU DHABI : The insufferable Mumbai Indians , fraught with three straight defeats in the IPL so far , will get another opportunity on Sunday to seek a turnaround in their fortunes. Their opponents this time are the Delhi Daredevils , another side struggling to win matches except for one in four outings so far . The match could possibly be the last chance for the Rohit Sharma-led team to continue with Michael Hussey as the opener. Should the experienced Aussie fail to click once again on Sunday , his team will have no option left but to revise their entire strategy in the tournament and look for a replacement at the top of the order . The Mumbai Indians are more or less thinking on these lines . In their current set-up , nothing 's been hurting the team more than Hussey 's non-performance at the top of the order and Kieron Pollard not delivering with the bat and the ball . For the defending champions to get any better in the IPL this season , a lot will depend on how these two cricketers try to find the missing form and get better from here . Dropping Pollard for non-performance with the bat is n't an option for MI. The Trinidadian brings a lot to the table in terms of his bowling and fielding skills , irrespective of going wicketless and dropping a sitter in the previous game . The 38-year-old Hussey , however , is not exactly irreplaceable. The strategy , at the time of buying him in this year 's auction , was to have a batsman who could provide the right impetus at the top of the order. It 's been a noshow until now . As for the Daredevils , it 's a wait and watch as to how the team revolves around Kevin Pietersen who 's played just one match yet . On Friday , the former England batsman took his time finding feet but could n't last long to turn around his team 's dwindling fortunes. The Daredevils have bowled well , especially Shahbaz Nadeem , and have a fairly good attack - no big names though - to compensate for lack of run-gluts . However , the onus will return on the batsmen , just like it will in the Mumbai Indians camp , to deliver. The Sharjah wicket is the fastest of all three and Mumbai Indians certainly have the edge where the attacks are concerned. But the team batting better will have the upper-hand in Sunday 's clash between the two strugglers . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Mumbai Indians,Michael Hussey,Kieron Pollard,Kevin Pietersen,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
