RCB 's total was third lowest in tournament 's history. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED ABU DHABI : A star-studded Royal Challengers Bangalore batting line-up collapsed like a pack of cards as they were shot out for a paltry 70 , their lowest IPL total , against Rajasthan Royals in the first match of the day on Saturday . Rajasthan bowlers , led by spinner Pravin Tambe ( 4/20 ) , justified their skipper 's decision to bowl first as only three batsmen could touch a double-digit mark . RCB 's total was third lowest in tournament 's history. Ironically in 2009 , Rajasthan were at the receiving end of Bangalore 's hostility when they were bundled out for 58 - the lowest IPL score by any team till now . The RCB innings was off to a disastrous start after their openers returned to the dug out in the very first over and the agony ended for them in the 15th over . Medium-pacer Stuart Binny got Yogesh Takawale caught behind for nought and the in-form Parthiv Patel followed him soon after being run out for 1 . Australian pacer Kane Richardson then replaced Binny in the third over to choke the RCB top-order after picking up the prized wickets of Yuvraj Singh ( 3 ) and AB de Villiers ( 0 ) on consecutive deliveries. The hat-trick ball was foiled by Sachin Rana . Rana , who plays for Haryana in Ranji Trophy , though could n't last long after he was cleaned up by Watson for 3 . The rot continued after leg-spinner Tambe got Albie Morkel for 7. Albie , who had been patient till now , went after a flighted delivery to lob a simple catch to Steven Smith at mid-off . Skipper Virat Kohli ( 21 ) tried his best to resist the fall but the attacking batsman gave away a sitter to Tim Southee at mid-off off Tambe . On any other day it would have been four but Kohli seemed to have been bitten by the same bug that hit the rest of his mates . The procession continued as Mitchel Starc was caught by Binny off Rajat Bhatia after a fighting 18. Tambe then completed the formalities to wipe off the tail . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = IPL,Virat Kohli,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Rajasthan Royals,Pravin Tambe Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
