CSK bowling attack did n't pose any threats to the marauding Glenn Maxwell in the league matches so far. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : The two huge defeats suffered at the hands of Kings XI Punjab in the league stages of this edition have been nothing less than mystifying for those accustomed to Chennai Super Kings ' clinical dominance of the IPL over the years . On both occasions , captain MS Dhoni watched helplessly , as first , his side lost by six wickets after putting up 205 runs on the board in Abu Dhabi and then went down by 44 runs at Cuttack after being set a mammoth target of 231 . Clearly , the CSK bowling attack did n't pose any threats to the marauding Glenn Maxwell. The maverick Aussie , with scores of 95 and 90 , was primarily responsible for scripting those overwhelming wins . But such is the quality of this CSK unit that the two reverses are unlikely to have any bearing on them when they meet Kings XI in Qualifier 2 at the Wankhede on Friday . The comprehensive seven-wicket win against Mumbai Indians on Wednesday in the Eliminator has once again highlighted the mental prowess of Dhoni 's men when it comes to big-matches . While Punjab finished the league phase as table-toppers , they lost tamely against Kolkata Knight Riders in the first Qualifier on Wednesday and that has only raised questions over their ability to handle pressure in crunch games . Of course , the inclement weather did n't help their cause and coach Sanjay Bangar did mention it in his post match interaction . " Our batsmen got a bit flustered by the rains midway and by the possibility of the D/L method coming into force. This robbed our innings of momentum , " Bangar said af KK Choudhary ter the match taking nothing away from KKR. But he did admit that his batsmen did n't put their hands up on the day . " We did not bat the way we are capable of and none of our batsmen could reach 40. That was a real dampener , " Bangar said. What will also worry Kings XI is the fact that two of their key batsmen - Maxwell and David Miller - have gone off the boil in the last few games. They will need to rediscover their touch if they are to harbour hopes of reaching the final . Suresh Raina , who became the first man to cross the 400-run mark in all editions of the IPL after his match-winning 54 against MI , was clear that the team that handles pressure well would emerge victorious . " One positive thing for Kings XI is they have no time to think. They just have to come and play here. We have one more day to anaylse our game and our strengths . " It is an important game for both sides. But whoever panics will lose the battle. We just have to go out there and express ourselves , " Raina said here on Wednesday. Both teams have altered their strategies with every game and it remains to be seen if they make any changes to their last playing XI . CSK chose to go in with an all-Indian bowling attack in the game against MI and that allowed captain Dhoni to put four of his best foreign batsmen -Dwayne Smith , Faf du Plessis , Brendon McCullum and David Hussey on the park . With Maxwell and Miller showing signs of susceptibility against leg-spinners , Dhoni may just be tempted to give West Indian Samuel Badree a look-in as R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja have n't been too effective against them . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Glenn Maxwell,IPL,Suresh Raina,Kings XI Punjab,Chennai Super Kings Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
