Yuvraj plays leading role in RCB 's facile victory K Shriniwas Rao K Shriniwas Rao,TNN | Apr 17 , 2014 , 11.15 PM IST Royal Challengers Bangalore 's Yuvraj Singh plays a shot during the IPL 7 match against Delhi Daredevils. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED SHARJAH : It was a venue where once cricket-watchers intensely bet and infamy set in. Sharjah 's not the same anymore. But talking about a bet or two , Vijay Mallya ended up winning a big hand here on a brightly-lit Thursday evening . He bet on Yuvraj Singh , the mercurial left-hander who went through the most traumatic phase of his cricket career just before the start of the IPL , blamed for India 's miserable loss in the World Twenty20 final. Earlier in February , Mallya had spent a whopping Rs 14 crore on Yuvraj , suggesting that captain Virat Kohli had asked him to do so. The writing of that cheque became a controversial one , followed by a clutter of jokes on the team owner and the cricketer which started trending on social networks . Had Mallya invested that kind of money on a loser ? Or would he end up the last man laughing . Thursday threw up the answer and Mallya — always the indulging punter — won a great bet . Yuvraj Singh walked out with Royal Challengers Bangalore two down for 62 , needing 83 to win in 11.1 overs. The target was achievable and the always-in-form Virat Kohli - dropped twice to Delhi Daredevils ' misery - setting up a chase well . But for Yuvraj , it was an occasion tailored to find his feet. The wicket was a placid one , the bowlers looking listless , the crowd receiving him with a loud cheer , his new team owner and the rest of the supporters watching intensely and Kohli - his good mate - waiting for him to join the fun in the middle . It was like a struggling performer waiting for a partner to match steps with , Yuvraj and Kohli danced down the pitch. Kohli had set the momentum on his way to a 38-ball 49 , inclusive of three sixes and two fours. But until Yuvraj landed in the middle , the belting of Devils was yet to begin . Anything short or down the leg-side was severely punished by the southpaw who had many a point to prove this day. To Kohli 's credit , the young man encouraged his batting partner each time the ball hit the middle of the bat. It was like one rapper helping the other find his words . Propped up , and helped by some mediocre and directionless bowling , Yuvraj sent the Sharjah cricket stadium into a frenzy. A massive attack that he launched brought 52 runs off 29 balls from his bat — five sixes and three boundaries making the bat talk . It was an innings that defined the character of his batting once again but more importantly lifted the despondency he had been sucked into last month . As for Delhi Daredevils , missing captain and leading batsman Kevin Pietersen , they were sent into submission. Barring South African all-rounder JP Duminy 's 48-ball 67 , none of the batsmen including makeshift skipper Dinesh Karthik , contributed with the bat. It was self-destruction for the Devils and Bangalore only made the most of it . Yuvraj became the second man in this tournament , after Jacques Kallis the other day , answering his share of questions . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virat Kohli,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Kevin Pietersen,Dinesh Karthik,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
