Leg-spinner Yuzvendra Chahal then bowled a magnificent spell to bag two quick wickets , giving away just 17 runs in his quota of 4 overs. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED DUBAI : Mumbai Indians batsmen failed to counter the clinical bowling display by Royal Challengers Bangalore as the defending champions could only manage 115 for 9 in their IPL match on Saturday . Put into bat , the Mumbai openers started on a decent note but soon lost the plot against the RCB pacers . South African pacer Albie Morkel drew first blood after scalping Mike Hussey for 16 in the 4th over of the innings . Mumbai wicketkeeper Aditya Tare also could n't last long as pacer Varun Aaron induced a top-edge from the batsman which landed in the safe hands of Maddinson in the deep . Leg-spinner Yuzvendra Chahal then bowled a magnificent spell to bag two quick wickets , giving away just 17 runs in his quota of 4 overs . Mumbai skipper Rohit Sharma ( 2 ) was a prized scalp for the Haryana tweaker and soon the big-hitting Kieron Pollard also fell to his guile . Ambati Rayudu and Corey Anderson then tried to stem the rot , stitching together a 31-run 5th-wicket partnership , but Mitchell Starc sent the two back in the dug-out in his third over to choke MI . Rayudu was caught at long off for a fighting 35 as AB de Villiers took his second catch while Anderson followed him soon after to give Starc a hat-trick chance . The Australian left-arm pacer did not get the hat-trick but ended with impressive figures of 2/21 . Ashok Dinda joined the party when he packed Zaheer Khan back for a duck and Mumbai slipped further . Harbhajan Singh tried to counter attack with a boundary in his run-a-ball eight-run stay but Aaron soon picked his second wicket . The Virat Kohli-led RCB are looking to continue their winning momentum after thrashing Delhi Daredevils in their first encounter while MI are still searching for a win after losing the opener against Kolkata Knight Riders . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virat Kohli,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Rohit Sharma,Mumbai Indians,IPL Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
