IPL GC lauds success of UAE leg PTI | May 3 , 2014 , 05.09 PM IST READ MORE Ranjib Biswal | IPL 7 | BCCI RELATED NEW DELHI : The Indian Premier League 's Governing Council today lauded the event 's success in the UAE , claiming that the first leg of the tournament fetched " unprecedented success " in terms of fan turnout , television viewership and ticket collections . " The Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) today announced the numbers that matter from the 2014 season of Pepsi Indian Premier League UAE-leg. The first part of the Twenty20 extravaganza has witnessed an unprecedented success in terms of fan turnout , television viewership , digital and ticket collections , " the organisers said in a statement . " Inviting full houses to every game at the three venues -- UAE played perfect hosts. 82 per cent were paid tickets ( compared to 56 per cent in South Africa during 2009 season ) , " it read . Lauding the overwhelming response , BCCI secretary Sanjay Patel said the the Board was pleased with the success . " The initial success has given us a lot of confidence for the India leg. We firmly believe that the steps taken to match and set new standards of fan involvement in the IPL have been enormously successful , " he said . The GC claimed that the rise in fan interest has been multi-fold and the official IPL website ( iplt20.com ) also registered a rise of 10 million visits in comparison to 2013 in the first 10 days of the tournament . The IPL page on Facebook has grown two folds. The 'Likes ' have risen from 3.8 million to 9.1 million , and are still increasing . The IPL on Twitter ( @ IPL ) has gained 360,000 new followers in the first two weeks , while the IPL Fantasy league now has 850,000 registered active users . IPL chairman , Mr. Ranjib Biswal said : " As pleased we are of the brilliant response in the UAE , our next aim is to make the IPL more appealing to the fans back home. I wish for the cricket fans in India to get involved in the game by flocking the stadia , watching the tournament on the TV and availing of all the rich information and content we have to offer through our digital platforms. " http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Ranjib Biswal,IPL 7,BCCI Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
