Kohli said he is aiming to take RCB to its maiden IPL title this season. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : The critics might say that IPL is adding to the players ' burden in a packed international calendar but Royal Challengers Bangalore skipper Virat Kohli said the T20 event actually helps them relax and enjoy themselves . " The more we enjoy cricket , it will be that much better in IPL. In IPL there is a lot of enjoyment of players. Everybody is relaxed coming from international schedule. There is a good atmosphere and we will try to utilise it , " said the 25-year-old at the team 's jersey launch event on Sunday . Kohli , on a high after being named the player of the tournament in the recently-concluded World Twenty20 , said he is aiming to take RCB to its maiden IPL title this season . " This time around we will hope to go few more steps ahead and actually get that trophy. We have added a few more quality players in the side and I am sure we will come out with flying colours , " he said . " We try every year to win and we have a strong team. We will try to win the trophy because we have got a good combination this time and we will try to utilise it and try to win the trophy , " he added . The star batsman was in a hurry and did not take too many questions , citing his packed schedule . " I need to leave for the airport. I need to go play the IPL. If you do n't want to see me in the IPL then that that is a different story. I need to leave in five minutes otherwise I will miss my flight , " he said . The Bangalore franchise has roped in Chinese telecom equipment maker Huawei as their principal sponsor . " It is an honour for me and RCB as well , to be associated with Huawei and as you all know , it is associated with some of the major sporting companies all around the world and for RCB to have them as a sponsor is a huge honour. We are looking forward to that partnership and hopefully we both can grow together . " Hopefully this year would be RCB 's year. Having Huawei on the shirt , and maybe the lucky logo that we needed for the last few years. Just really excited and looking forward to the IPL as well. We have a great team , great bunch of guys ready to perform well. We do well every year , we excite a lot of people in the IPL , " Kohli said . The Royal Challengers Bangalore would play their first match against Delhi Daredevils on April 17 in Sharjah . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virat Kohli,Royal Challengers Bangalore,IPL,Huawei,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
