IPL 's desert leg paves the way for Indian cricket 's return to Emirates K Shriniwas Rao K Shriniwas Rao,TNN | May 1 , 2014 , 09.56 AM IST IPL proved that cricket in this part of the world continues to be in great demand. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED DUBAI : The highly successful UAE leg of the IPL came to an end on Wednesday , paving the way for a lot of cricket from India to be played here once again on a regular basis. The word going around is that India 's cricket administrators are thrilled with the reception the IPL has received . Apart from the enthusiastic crowds , there has been great support from the governments of the UAE too , with Sheikh Nahyan Bin Mubarak Al Nahyan , the minister for culture , youth and community development and his entourage visiting the stadiums in Dubai , Abu Dhabi and Sharjah for almost every game. The last match in Dubai on Wednesday also saw the presence of Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum , the ruler of Dubai and also the prime minister of the UAE . Such has been the response at all the three venues here over the last 15 days that the royals are known to have expressed pleasant surprise over the turnout. For any sport here in the Emirates - cricket included - crowds range from 3,000-4,000 people. But the IPL has seen packed venues every night . It is this unprecedented popularity that has made both sides - the UAE cricket administrators , led by Sheikh Nahyan , and the BCCI - sit up and take note of how cricket in this part of the world continues to be in great demand . It is learnt that the UAE administration assured the BCCI and concerned authorities that no unwanted elements like bookmakers or underworld suspects would be allowed to enter the UAE. The BCCI 's Anti-Corruption and Security Code ( ACSU ) worked diligently with these authorities to ensure a smooth conduct of the tournament. These factors have instilled confidence that cricket can again return to the UAE . Sheikh Nahyan , it is learnt , has expressed interest in travelling to India for the final of the IPL in Mumbai. In return , he has also offered his cooperation to Indian cricket authorities to host the Champions League T20 later this year and the much-awaited India-Pakistan series if both governments give their go-ahead . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = United Arab Emirates,sharjah,IPL,BCCI,Abu Dhabi Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
