Owners ' dugouts could be shifted off the field into the stands so that there is less clutter near the players ' arena. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : The Indian cricket board ( BCCI ) has decided to bring Indian Premier League ( IPL ) team owners under the ambit of its anti-corruption code of conduct following recommendations from the Supreme Court 's probe panel and other anti-corruption officials . According to BCCI sources , the revamped code has already been discussed with IPL team owners. " Earlier , team owners were not covered by any anti-corruption code but now they have to follow these rules just like the players , " a top BCCI official told TOI on Thursday. Some team officials admitted they had an inkling such measures would be taken following the recent controversies in the IPL . The BCCI 's anti-corruption unit ( ACU ) and the ICC 's anti-corruption and security unit ( ACSU ) have also made various recommendations pertaining to the lodging of players , entry of guests and their access to players. The board is keen on ensuring that these restrictions are followed strictly. BCCI is also making it mandatory for cricketers and team owners to submit cell phone details . Besides , owners ' dugouts could be shifted off the field into the stands so that there is less clutter near the players ' arena. " The BCCI has had discussions with the teams and none of the owners has a problem with moving out of the players ' area. If a team owner is using more than one mobile number , he has to give ACU officials those numbers too , " an official said , adding that social media contacts and email IDs of owners would also be monitored closely . For the first leg of the IPL in the UAE , BCCI has assigned two anti-corruption officers with every team . Incidentally , BCCI has allowed cheerleaders for this year 's event. " It 's not BCCI 's concern. It is up to the teams if they want to hire cheerleaders. They have to be dressed appropriately , " the official said . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = IPL,Supreme Court,Indian Premier League,BCCI,Anti-corruption Code Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
