Sunrisers coach Moody rules out batting concerns NEW DELHI : After becoming the first Jammu and Kashmir player to be selected in an IPL team in 2013 , Parvez Rasool is now ready for his second stint in the T20 league and reckons that the presence of star players in his team will help him grow as a cricketer . The off-spinning all-rounder , who has been bought by Sunrisers Hyderabad for Rs 95 lakh , firmly believes that the T20 event is a big stage to make your presence felt in the national and international market . " I feel one should grab every opportunity that comes your way and IPL is sure a perfect platform to showcase one 's talent. With so much of television viewership , the world is watching and the selector 's also have an eye on the event. It 's a great chance for any upcoming cricketer to prove his worth in this T20 extravaganza , " Rasool said . The 25-year-old will be rubbing shoulders with national and international stars in the Sunrisers squad that is led by Shikhar Dhawan. The Jammu and Kashmir skipper feels great to be a part of the same dressing room that will have players like Dale Steyn , Darren Sammy and Ishant Sharma . " The presence of international and national stars in the Sunrisers squad will certainly be beneficial to my growth as a cricketer. I will try my best to spend time with them , on and off the field. And at the end of it performance is key. So I hope that if and when I get a chance to play , I come up trumps , " said the wily off-spinner . Rasool though got just two IPL games in the last season with Pune Warriors and his outing with the Virat Kohli-led Team India to Zimbabwe was also restricted to the dug-out but he takes all this in his stride . " You have to take the rough with the smooth. I personally have taken a lot of positives from all this. I am lucky to have got an IPL break and a chance to travel with the Indian team. How many players get such opportunities ? , " said a hopeful Rasool . On the point of Jammu and Kashmir players getting a raw deal , Rasool argues that performance can wipe away any negativity and believes that it 's far more sunny for J&K players now . " Our performance has been good in the last couple pf years. Our boys are getting picked in Zonal cricket and also being considered for IPL. I personally graduated from Under-19 to the national team and in IPL for Pune Warriors , so I believe the Kashmiri lads are making their presence felt , " said the upbeat all-rounder . Rasool did get a few tips from off-spinning great Harbhajan Singh during the Irani Trophy game in February. Rasool was in the Rest of India reserves with Harbhajan as skipper and the J&K player enjoyed the lessons from 'the Turbanator' . " It 's my fortune to get advice from a player of the stature of Harbhajan Singh. I am constantly in touch with him. His advice is invaluable and has certainly helped my game. I certainly practice what I am taught to master the art , " he said . Rasool though was critical of the fans ' behaviour towards Yuvraj Singh after the T20 final. Rasool harbours lot of respect for Yuvi , who was instrumental in winning two World Cups for India , and feels cricket lovers should not turn fanatics towards their heroes . " Anybody can be at the receiving end of the madness of cricket in this country but fans should realise that a player gives his blood and sweat to the country and is human if he errs. I have great respect for Yuvi paaji and feel that he deserves respect and nothing else , " concluded Rasool . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunrisers Hyderabad,Parvez Rasool,IPL 7,Darren Sammy,Dale Steyn Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
