Irfan Pathan begins another redemption journey Ruchir Mishra Ruchir Mishra,TNN | Apr 10 , 2014 , 01.42 AM IST " I was very lucky to start my return from injury in the four-day format. You get to bowl two to three spells in a day and come back the next morning , " said Pathan. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED NAGPUR : His stupendous show against the invincible Aussies a decade ago just could n't stop him from bursting on to the scene. To his credit , he made immediate impact. And at one stage it looked as if he would fill the empty boots left behind by the legendary Kapil Dev. However , frequent injuries and indifferent form impeded the progress of this talented Baroda seamer. He was part of the Champions Trophy squad too but injured himself before the tri-series in West Indies and was sidelined for nearly six months . After playing a few Ranji Trophy matches and a handful of One-dayers and Twenty20s this season , Irfan Pathan looks ready to do the job for his new IPL team Sunrisers Hyderabad. The southpaw spoke to TOI on various issues. Excerpts from the interview : You did well in the domestic circuit after a long lay-off. How 's body shaping up ? I was very lucky to start my return from injury in the four-day format. You get to bowl two to three spells in a day and come back the next morning. Sometimes you get the second innings too. If you play two games , then you are match ready. It 's not that way In One-day or Twenty20. You do n't get to bowl much. For me , the more I play , the better I will get. At the moment , the ball is coming nicely out of my hand and my rhythm is good . Injury must be frustrating for you. How difficult it was to recuperate ? When I got injured I was doing very well. I was eyeing a comeback into the Test side. But you ca n't control injuries. You can do as much fitness as you want and only hope that nothing bad can happen. You have to take things in your stride and move on. When you do that , it gets a lot of pressure off from you and you concentrate on things you want to achieve. I do n't get frustrated easily . Now you have to start the things all over again , just like you did a couple of years ago.. . In India , one can make a comeback if he is fully fit as there 's a lot of cricket around. If you have the experience of playing at the top level , things are not that difficult for you. When you start from scratch , doing fitness , building stamina and strength , start bowling it 's not easy but if you do the right things , things fall into places no matter how much competition is there. In fact , the prevalence of competition means there 's a place available. When you know you have talent and you can do the job , life becomes easy and so does the comeback. I have played enough at the top level , so I have a fair idea of what I need to do to reach that level again. To be honest , selection is not on my mind. If I do well , I will definitely be considered . Initially , you were considered a bowler who can bat decently but once you started delivering like an all-rounder , did the expectations rise further ? Not at all. I am very confident about my batting now. However , I need to work on both the aspects of my game. When I am bowling I need to think as a top level bowler and same when I am batting. When I do that consistently , the tag of the all-rounder would sit pretty on my shoulders . This Indian team looks very settled. What role do you see for yourself ? I need to play more and more matches and then think about the comeback. I need to think I can do the job at whichever level I play , be it for a local team , Ranji Trophy side , West Zone , IPL or Indian team . In your case , the talk is often about the lack of pace. Does that frustrate you ? I have said time and again that swing is my strength. I know if I can swing the ball at certain pace , I have the ability to get wickets. If you see , I have never been a tear-away bowler. At this stage of my career , I would only like to stick to my strength . World Cup is not too far away. How determined are you to be a part of it ? It is my ultimate goal but there 's lot of cricket before that. I need to take it step by step. I have the experience of playing in Australian conditions and that 's going to help me but first of all , I have to do well in IPL for my new team Sunrisers and then take things from there. I ca n't talk about selection matters but I need to get settled in the team much before that . Have you worked on any specific area ? There are a couple of aspects. I have changed my grip in batting , which gives me free flow. I have also worked on my delivery stride . Sunrisers were the surprise package last year. Do you think there will be pressure of expectations now ? Absolutely. There will be expectations but we have a good bunch of players and a nice support staff . Are you excited with the prospect of bowling alongside Dale Steyn ? He has been No.1 bowler in all formats of the game. Every bowler can learn from him...the energy he puts in every time he bowls. Looking forward to bowling alongside him . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = IPL,Irfan Pathan,Dale Steyn Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
