Royal Challengers Bangalore skipper Virat Kohli also said he does not think about his past and present performances , but concentrates on doing well in the next game. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED BANGALORE : Giving an insight into his cricketing mind , Royal Challengers Bangalore skipper Virat Kohli said that he prepares for a match by training his brain even while travelling in a bus . " Even when I am going to the ground in the bus , I keep thinking about the shots I am going to play and to which bowler .. Once you train your brain what to do then obviously when you go out there ... you find that perfect zone , " he said in an interview to RCB 's official website . Kohli , who holds the record for the fastest century by an Indian batsman in ODIs , said he visualises of how to play certain bowlers before the match . " I visualise a lot. I sit and think before a game. I visualise the bowlers whom I am going to face the next day or on the game day , " he said . Talking about his strength , Kohli said controlled aggression on the field is his forte and he channelises it to perform better . " My strength is a lot of intensity on the field. My strength is aggression , but controlled-aggression now. I try to channelise that as much as I can in the things I want to do on the field , " he said . Kohli , who is the fastest batsman in the world to score 17 hundreds in ODIs , said he does not pay much attention to the encomiums and criticism poured on him when things are going good or bad for him . " Every time I start scoring everyone says he is in the form of his life. So , I do n't pay attention to that. It is just that even if you are not doing well , just one or two good matches can change things around for you , " he said . Kohli also said he does not think about his past and present performances , but concentrates on doing well in the next game . " I do n't think about what I have done in the past. How well I have performed in the recent matches I played. For me it is always the next game and my focus is to do well , " he said . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virat Kohli,Royal Challengers Bangalore,ODIs,IPL 7,IPL Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
