Narine is in the top-3 of the wicket-taker 's list this season. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED CHENNAI : Ever since his debut for Kolkata Knight Riders two seasons ago , Sunil Narine has been their trump card. He has been the go-to man for skipper Gautam Gambhir and the 25-year-old has delivered almost every time . With 12 scalps from 8 games this season , Narine is in the top-3 of the wicket-taker 's list. In a chat with TOI , the mystery spinner from Trinidad spoke of his exploits in the IPL and how he prepares for each game . Excerpts : You have done exceedingly well in the IPL. What 's the secret ? I enjoy playing in the IPL. The atmosphere and level of competition is phenomenal. It is great to be in the midst of such passionate fans , and as a sportsperson that is one of the best rewards. KKR have been a great franchise and they understand the needs of the players. As a cricketer , that 's exactly what we want. My team is like my second family and I have the best bunch of friends there . Kolkata has always been a city that has been passionate about its cricket. How has your experience ? Bowling in front of packed houses at the Eden Gardens has been very humbling. The passion for the game not just in Kolkata but in other centres too has been great . One often sees you not overdoing the 'doosra ' as much as other off-spinners. Do you rely more on your stock ball ? I try and mix it up as much as possible. In this format , you do not have too many overs. The key is to keep the batsmen guessing at all times , and make sure that you never let them settle down in the middle . Tell us about the preparation that goes on before a match ? Before a game , I try my best to get a good night 's rest. Also , I ensure that my focus is fully on the job at hand. It is also important for me to remain as calm as possible . Would you agree that teams tend to play you out without taking too many risks ? In this format , the batsmen are always looking to score as many runs as possible. So , I do not think they come out with a plan of not attacking any particular bowler. They might tend to be a little more cautious with some bowlers , but they are always waiting for the next loose ball to capitalize on. So , my job is to make sure that I offer them as little as possible , but at the same time try to take wickets . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Trinidad,Sunil Narine,Kolkata Knight Riders,IPL,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
