Starc 's spat with Pollard ignited calls for red cards in the gentleman 's game. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED BANGALORE : Young Australian fast bowler Mitchell Starc 's debut season in the Indian Premier League has already seen him emerge as Royal Challengers Bangalore 's leading wicket-taker with 13 scalps from 10 games , enhancing his reputation as a capable leader of the bowling attack . The 24-year-old from Sydney , who was picked up by RCB in the auction for Rs 5 crore , spoke to TOI about playing in the IPL alongside world-class stars , the ugly on-field spat with Mumbai Indians ' Kieron Pollard and whether red cards could find their way into the gentleman 's game . Excerpts.. . The spat between you and Kieron Pollard came under a lot of scrutiny.. . Kieron 's done that a lot in the past and I do n't think it 's worth talking about. There 's nothing nice to say about it , I guess . Have you spoken to him since ? No , I 've got no time for Pollard and I have n't talked to him at all . There are calls for red cards in cricket. Was that incident one which would warrant such thoughts ? Yeah , I guess so. That sort of situation would probably warrant yellow and red cards if it ever does come to that. But I 'm definitely staying out of that sort of thing anyway. It 's not in my nature to get involved in that sort of stuff. It was a heat-of-the-moment thing . What has your IPL experience been like so far ? Has it been tough to come in and perform ? It 's my first IPL and a new experience. I was n't sure what to expect but I had heard a lot from Australian players. To be picked up by RCB was a huge thrill. It 's fantastic to be a part of a team full of world class players. I would never ever have the chance to play alongside Chris Gayle , AB de Villiers , Virat Kohli or Yuvraj Singh otherwise. It 's a chance for young blokes to progress and it 's the same for me too . Your thoughts on RCB 's season so far.. . We 're still in the running although we made it tough for ourselves. We need to win four matches but we got the calibre to be competitive for these four games and try to get to the playoffs . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Yuvraj Singh,Mitchell Starc,Kieron Pollard,Chris Gayle,AB de Villiers Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
