Aaron , though , knows that he can not get carried away with pace alone. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED SHARJAH : Indian fast bowlers have a history of cutting down on pace to focus on line and length but Varun Aaron , despite coming off five stress fractures , says he will never compromise when it comes to speed . Playing for Royal Challengers Bangalore , the 24-year-old Aaron picked up a wicket with his first ball in the ongoing edition of Indian Premier League on Thursday and finished with economical figures of 3/9 in three overs against Delhi Daredevils . " I have had five stress fractures and still have n't cut down on pace and I do n't think I ever will , " Aaron said after his side 's opening IPL match . Aaron , though , knows that he can not get carried away with pace alone . " If you are playing at the highest level , you have to have everything in your armoury. Bowling fast alone will not help you. You have to bowl in the right areas to be a good bowler . " Bowling fast comes naturally to me and I do n't really think about the pace aspect too much. If you can bowl fast , it is always an added advantage and a bonus , " said the bowler who burst into limelight after clocking 153 kmph in a Ranji Trophy game back in the 2010-11 season . On Thursday , at a packed stadium here , Aaron bowled with a lot of fire and made the going tough for the Daredevils batsmen . " I could n't have asked for a better start to the IPL. Getting a wicket first ball was a great feeling , " Aaron told IPL 's official website . " It is great to start on a winning note and to win so convincingly is a really good feeling. I am sure it would have done a world of good for everyone 's confidence. " Aaron was part of the Indian World T20 squad , in Bangladesh. He got a couple of warm-up games , but had to sit out for the rest of the tournament . " I was really looking forward to this first game in the IPL. I sat out for the entire World T20 , and it was not easy. I was very eager to get out in the middle and bowl well. I am glad it came out well today. My intention was to bowl well and help our team to a victory. " The pacer made full use of the wicket that had a lot for the fast bowlers . " It was a nice batting track and had a nice carry , which I like. Having said that , I am not going to get fast bowling friendly tracks in these T20 games , but it is encouraging to see a wicket with a lot of carry like that. " http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = World T20,Varun Aaron,Royal Challengers Bangalore,IPL,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
