Jacques Kallis aims for T20 stardom K Shriniwas Rao K Shriniwas Rao,TNN | Apr 18 , 2014 , 12.25 AM IST Jacques Kallis seems to be playing in the IPL 's 7th edition just to prove this theory wrong. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED SHARJAH : What an outstanding cricketer ! It 's a line used for the greats who have played the game and South African all-rounder Jacques Kallis is surely one of the them . A cricketer of a similar pedigree - but not in stature - once told TOI during a chat : " People tend to remember a cricketer because of his achievements in Test cricket. One-day cricket is great too because it tests the skills of a player over a duration of not less than 50 overs. But T20 ? Who 'll ever remember me down the years and say 'he was a great T20 cricketer'. " It 's a mindset most cricketers , who 've excelled in the older formats of the game , carry. They feel , T20 does not help identify the cricketer 's true potential. Kallis seems to be playing in the IPL 's 7th edition just to prove this theory wrong. Having retired from the game 's longest format as perhaps its greatest ever all-rounder , he now seems to have his eyes set on proving that he can be a 'quality slogger ' too. While one would n't ever have imagined that such a term could be coined with cricket , it is the 'quality sloggers ' who make all the difference in a T20 innings. To slog is their job. That 's what Kallis is also expected to do . On Wednesday , during KKR 's opening game against the Mumbai Indians , Gautam Gambhir fell to a stunning yorker from Lasith Malinga and Kallis , who was Gambhir 's opening partner , had to play the dual role of attacking and providing stability . Questions had been raised about the Knights ' decision to use the right-to-match card for the all-rounder at a whopping Rs 5.5 crore in the auction early this year. Following Wednesday 's innings , a 46-ball 72 , Trevor Bayliss and Gambhir wo n't have much answering to do. " We were never in doubt about what he brings to the table , " is how skipper Gambhir reacted when asked if the team management had second thoughts about investing in the veteran all-rounder . Kallis ' goal is 2015 Down Under - the 50-over World Cup and he does n't want to just reach there. Having been a part of South African teams that have imploded in semifinals of major events , he now wants to win it to take his curtain call amidst glory . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Mumbai Indians,KKR,Jacques Kallis,IPL 7,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
