Karthik , Duminy script Delhi win over Kolkata Knight Riders PTI | Apr 20 , 2014 , 12.08 AM IST Delhi Daredevils batsmen responded to the challenge well and overhauled the target with three balls to spare. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED DUBAI : JP Duminy hit a timely unbeaten 52 after skipper Dinesh Karthik set the foundation with a fighting 56-run knock as Delhi Daredevils edged out Kolkata Knight Riders by four wickets in a thrilling IPL Twenty20 cricket match , on Saturday . Electing to bat , KKR posted a decent 166 for five , thanks to some brilliant batting by Robin Uthappa ( 55 ) and Manish Pandey ( 48 ) at Dubai International Stadium . Delhi Daredevils batsmen responded to the challenge well and overhauled the target with three balls to spare . Karthik batted superbly in the top order while Duminy finished it off in style with a six off Piyush Chawla . Like KKR , Delhi too had to endure a bad start as Murali Vijay ( 0 ) was run out in the first over. Mayank Agrawal was off to a superb start as he hit some terrific shots but could not stay long at the crease as his short but entertaining 26-run knock was ended by Morne Morkel . Karthik and Ross Taylor had a job at hand but the Kiwi batsman was bowled by Jacques Kallis and Delhi skipper was joined by JP Duminy at the crease . Karthik batted intelligently as he rotated the strike well and waited for bad balls to punish. He hit Piyush Chawla for a six and a four in the 10th over , gradually moving towards a half-century . He completed his fifty with a sweetly timed chip off Shakib Al Hasan in the cover region but could not finish it off for his side , becoming a victim of wily spinner Sunil Narine. Attempting a reverse sweep , Karthik could not read the line and was found plumb in front of the wicket . Delhi now needed 44 runs from five overs. Manoj Tiwary was removed by Morkel when the batsman went for a big shot but failed to clear the boundary fielder. Jimmy Neesham hit a huge six off Chawla and Duminy hit two sixes off country-mate Morkel to get close to the target . DD required six runs off the last over , Chawla started well with a dot and wicket of Neesham in the second to make it interesting. Duminy sealed the fate of his side with a six off Chawla in the next ball . Karthik 's 56 came off 40 balls with seven boundaries including two sixes while left-handed Duminy faced only 35 balls , hitting three fours and as many sixes in his match-winning knock . Earlier , Robin Uthappa ( 55 ) and Manish Pandey ( 48 ) batted sensibly under pressure to guide Kolkata Knight Riders to a competitive 166 for five against Delhi Daredevils in an IPL Twenty20 cricket match , here today . Uthappa patiently added 64 runs for the third wicket with Pandey and then quickly shared a 57-run stand for the fourth wicket Shakib Al Hasan ( 30 not out ) to lift KKR to a decent total after electing to bat . KKR had lost both the openers cheaply but Uthappa and Pandey set the platform for an exciting finish as they collected 103 runs in the last 10 overs . Pandey 's 48 came off 42 balls with five shots to the fence while Uthappa took 41 balls for his knock , which had six boundaries . Hasan also played a crucial role in KKR 's progress with his unbeaten cameo off 22 balls. He hit a six and two fours . Pacemen Mohammed Shami and Nathan Coulter-Nile provided a sensational start to Delhi by removing both the openers before they could even open their accounts . Shami had dangerman Jacques Kallis caught at first slip for a golden duck while Coulter-Nile extended Gautam Gambhir 's poor run by having the KKR skipper caught in leg-slip region for his second successive duck in the tournament . Shami struggled for control but swung the ball both ways to trouble the KKR batsmen. In bowling friendly conditions , boundaries were hard to come , so Pandey and Uthappa relied on singles and twos to steady the innings . KKR innings ' first four came in the fifth over when Pandey pulled one from Shami to mid-wicket boundary. The two batsmen batted cautiously and took their side to 63 for two at half-way stage . Pandey broke the shackles by hitting Shabaz Nadeem for two successive boundaries but the left-arm spinner got his revenge by castling the batsman in the last ball of 11th over . Hasan was aggressive from the start as he lifted Nadeem for a six over mid-wicket and Uthappa creamed off a six and a four off Jimmy Neesham to take KKR total 112 for three from 15 overs . Uthappa departed shortly after completing his fifty but Hasan stayed on smartly to end the innings in style . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Piyush Chawla,Manoj Tiwary,Manish Pandey,JP Duminy,Jacques Kallis Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
