First-person reports from the stands India v South Africa , World Cup 2015 , Group B , Melbourne , February 22 , 2015 India 's day out at the MCG February 23 , 2015 NEXT Why I chose this game : My home team and one of my other favourite teams playing at the MCG , this was an opportunity not to miss . Key performer : Shikhar Dhawan looked promising right from the start of the innings. His 137 - the highest by a batsman against South Africa in World Cups - really made us fans have hope for a big total , especially after the early loss of Rohit Sharma . Wow moment : Wow moment for me was watching Ajinkya Rahane bat the way he did , completely different from his usual style. He kept going for the big shots , and executed them well ! It was a treat watching him go away from the typical Rahane style of batting and bat with aggression . One thing I would 've changed : The heat ; it was unbearable ! It was apparently only 35 degrees , but it felt a lot worse than that. You could see spectators grabbing anything they could find so they could fan themselves to cool down. The occasional breeze during the game was like a real godsend . Shot of the day : Mohammed Shami 's boundary off Dale Steyn in the last over of the innings. Steyn 's expression after that shot was truly priceless Crowd meter : The stands were packed , the atmosphere was as good , if not better than the India vs Pakistan game at the Adelaide Oval. To be among 86,000-plus people , with majority of them being Indian supporters was a different feeling altogether. There was a Mexican wave that went around six times , with just as much enthusiasm from the crowd each time. The usual India chants were the most popular , and Virat Kohli was the most popular player getting the loudest cheer , whether he was warming-up , batting or patrolling the boundary . Overall : I am so grateful to have witnessed this record-breaking game live at the MCG , a memory I will treasure forever and definitely one worth losing my voice for . Marks out of 10 : I think everyone present at the venue or watching it on TV will agree this was a sure shot 10/10. Two great sides on show and India coming on top. Brilliant game of cricket ! Want to do a Fan Following report ? Read our FAQ here Shreya Paranjape , originally from Mumbai , but living in Christchurch for the last 13 years. Proud Indian-Kiwi and a huge cricket fanatic . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
