Kevin Pietersen races against time to be fit Arani Basu Arani Basu,TNN | Apr 13 , 2014 , 12.28 AM IST Pietersen is nursing a fractured finger on his right hand and is racing against time to set the tone in the initial matches , according to sources close to DD. ( Getty Image ) RELATED Daredevils post 184/3 against Royals NEW DELHI : Kevin Pietersen is nursing a fractured finger on his right hand and is racing against time to set the tone in the initial IPL 7 matches , according to sources close to the Delhi Daredevils camp . Pietersen has led the team , along with head coach Gary Kirsten , in the three practice sessions here at the Palam Air Force ground. Although he interacted with players right through the five hours of training , he did n't hone his cricketing skills as the ring and little fingers of his right hand were heavily strapped . KP did not have a full-fledged batting session in the nets and did not take part in fielding drills either. All he did was face some throwdowns , using mostly the top hand of the bat to guide the balls through . " KP has a fractured finger. That is why he is n't taking an active part in the drills. A well-known doctor has been called to attend on him but he will only meet him in the UAE. He is supposed to be treated there so he can recover faster and take part in the first match. But he is certainly racing against time. It could be touch and go for the first couple of matches , " a source told TOI on Saturday . However , Daredevils officials present at the ground tried to play down the issue. " It 's just a sore hand. He had an injury earlier and it 's just sore from that. KP is just taking precautionary measures by not going through the extensive drills , " said the official . Pietersen had told TOI on arriving in New Delhi earlier in the week that he was wearing the protective gear to shield an injured finger. " It 's a niggle but I am wearing the gear to make sure I do n't hurt it any further while shaking hands , " he had said . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Palam Air Force,Kevin Pietersen,Gary Kirsten,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
