Kieron Pollard , Mitchell Starc in ugly spat Gaurav Gupta Gaurav Gupta,TNN | May 7 , 2014 , 11.02 AM IST Mumbai Indians ' Kieron Pollard looses his temper against Royal Challengers Bangalore 's Mitchell Starc during their IPL 7 match in Mumbai. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : Skipper Rohit Sharma and all-rounder Kieron Pollard 's brilliant 97-run partnership at the Wankhede on Tuesday night was completely overshadowed and marred by the ugliest on-field spat in IPL 7 so far . In the 17th over of the MI innings , RCB seamer Mitchell Starc sledged Pollard after the batsman missed hooking his bouncer. The West Indian returned the compliment by gesturing the Aussie to return to his bowling mark . Next ball , Pollard 'withdrew ' to the legside before Starc was about to deliver , but to his astonishment , the bowler went on to fire the ball towards him. The fuming all-rounder then almost flung his bat at the bowler in disgust . Both were subsequently involved in a heated exchange of words , before the umpires stepped in to prevent a situation wherein perhaps the players may even have come to blows . With the entire stadium booing Starc , Pollard had a heated debate with opposition skipper Virat Kohli too , even as the latter stepped in with the intention of defusing the situation . Later , Pollard , who complained about Starc 's action to the umpires , was pacified by West Indian senior teammate Chris Gayle. " You ca n't throw your bat at anyone , " Starc said later . The incident , which may have become more ugly had Pollard 's bat not slipped while it was on its way towards Starc , is likely to be viewed seriously by the tournament organisers. Pollard 's conduct should invite serious action , while Starc is unlikely to escape censure too . The RCB players , meanwhile , deserve flak for giving batsmen unnecessary send-offs after dismissing them. The way young leggie Yuzvendra Chahal went after Corey Anderson after getting him out , made for unpleasant viewing . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virat Kohli,Rohit Sharma,Mitchell Starc,Kieron Pollard,Chris Gayle Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
