Kings stay kings , Daredevils remain paupers at home Partha Bhaduri Partha Bhaduri,TNN | May 20 , 2014 , 09.38 AM IST Kings XI Punjab 's A Patel and R Dhawan celebrate after their win against Delhi Daredevils in their IPL 7 match in New Delhi. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : On a day when Kings XI Punjab were tested to the hilt by luckless Delhi Daredevils in a tense affair , one had to be at the ground to see the kind of adulation Punjab 's Glenn Maxwell has started receiving from Indian crowds . When this season 's biggest batting sensation walked out at Delhi 's home turf in the seventh over with Punjab comfortably placed at 67/1 chasing 165 , the deafening roars of " Maxwell , Maxwell " were a reminder of the kind of reception reserved in the past for some of India 's greatest batsmen at the Ferozeshah Kotla . The cheers refused to die down and Imran Tahir even stopped momentarily in his delivery stride till things quietened down a bit. Maxwell was greeted with a wide but an LBW appeal led to gasps of astonishment , almost as if the batsman had no business getting out early . Maxwell obliged by hitting the fourth ball he received for a six but did n't last long , falling to a Tahir googly for an 11-ball 14 , and immediately shouts of " Arrey ticket kharab ho gayi ( our ticket is wasted ) " echoed from the old clubhouse . That was a strange sentiment from the Delhi home crowd given that moments earlier , Tahir 's dismissal of a hungry-to-impress Manan Vohra ( 42 ; 19b , 4x4 , 3x6 ) seemed to momentarily stop Punjab in their tracks after an electrifying start . JP Duminy 's innocuous slow bowling accounted for both Sehwag and the dangerous David Miller in between Maxwell 's brief stay , and bottom-placed Delhi suddenly seemed in with a whiff of a chance after six consecutive losses. Or perhaps the crowd knew better . Too much trouble had already been done by the opening pair and it was a very brief window of opportunity which the Delhi bowling could n't capitalize on as a seventh straight defeat followed . It was a close thing , though , and table-toppers Punjab played some sensible cricket to overhaul Delhi 's total by the skin of their teeth in 19.4 overs , Akshar Patel following up his excellent showing with the ball ( Pietersen 's wicket and 18 runs off his quota ) with a measured 42 not out off 35 balls . Even George Bailey 's untimely dismissal could n't alter Delhi 's rock-bottom fortunes. It turned out to be the perfect dead rubber to test Punjab 's lower middle-order in an extraordinary season for the team , while for Delhi it seems there are no new depths to plumb . For a while on Monday , though , it seemed Daredevils would set up a formidable total with skipper Kevin Pietersen ( 49 ; 32b , 6x4 , 1x6 ) and a recharged Dinesh Karthik ( 69 ; 44b , 7x4 , 3x6 ) playing rollicking knocks . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Kings XI Punjab,Kevin Pietersen,Glenn Maxwell,George Bailey,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
