Kings XI poised for maiden IPL title this year , feels Miller PTI | Apr 17 , 2014 , 07.03 PM IST " It is exciting to have a different group of players. Overall , the squad looks more than capable to win the title , " said David Miller. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED IPL offers great learning experience : Thisara NEW DELHI : Devastating South Africa batsman David Miller believes Kings XI Punjab have built a strong squad capable of winning its maiden Indian Premier League title this year . The Punjab outfit , who have only once qualified for the knockout stage in the six editions of the event , made smart buys in the players auction of IPL 7 after retaining only Miller and 20-year-old uncapped Indian player Manan Vohra . " It is exciting to have a different group of players. Overall , the squad looks more than capable to win the title. We have been training hard from the past four-five days and are getting to know each other , " Miller told PTI from Abu Dhabi today on the eve of King XI 's opening match against two-time champions Chennai Super Kings . Miller , who made waves after smashing 101 off 38 balls against Royal Challengers Bangalore last year , will play a key role in deciding the fortunes of Kings XI , which also have the likes of Virender Sehwag , Cheteshwar Pujara , Mitchell Johnson , Glen Maxwell and captain George Bailey . Having all-rounders like Rishi Dhawan and Sri Lanka 's Thisara Perera gives the Punjab side good options even though their spin department does n't look as potent with 37-year-old Murali Kartik being their most experienced tweaker. . Miller , however , feels the depth in batting and fast bowling is enough to bail the team out in tough situations . " Look , it is really cool to have so many good players around. I have been discussing a lot of cricket with Sehwag and Bailey too comes across as a man of wisdom. Now the challenge is to gel well together in a short time. It was only last night that all of us went out for desert safari , " said the 24-year-old from Pietermartizburg . Asked how he feels about his game and whether he has tried to invent any innovative stroke in the nets of late , the big hitting Miller comes up with a witty reply . " Well I am actually working on my forward defence , " he quipped before getting serious . " Actually , the focus is just to spend a lot of time in the nets and try hitting every ball besides doing the usual drills. " Though he had a quiet World T20 in Bangladesh , Miller is a regular for South Africa in the shorter formats of the game after making his international debut in May 2010 . Even though Miller is yet to make his debut in Test cricket , he said he was in no hurry . " I have not set any timeframe for making my Test debut. The childhood dream was to play for South Africa and that has happened. I just want to take it as it comes and toil further in domestic cricket. And hope I get to play Tests sometime in my career , " he signed off . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virender Sehwag,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Mitchell Johnson,Kings XI Punjab,Cheteshwar Pujara Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
