Kings XI Punjab and Kolkata Knight Riders to rely on their strengths Sunil Subbaiah Sunil Subbaiah,TNN | Jun 1 , 2014 , 09.51 AM IST Both Bailey and Gambhir will rely on their strengths rather than worry about their opponents. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED BANGALORE : Kolkata Knight Riders skipper Gautam Gambhir said his team will rely on their strengths rather than worry about their opponents Kings XI Punjab in the IPL final on Sunday . " We rate Kings XI as a dangerous and quality side , " said Gambhir. " We have to do well in all three departments ; rather than think about the weakness of the opposition , we need to focus more on our strengths , " Gambhir added . The same opinion was echoed by Kings XI Punjab captain George Bailey. " It is dangerous in T20 cricket to worry too much about the opposition , " he said . Asked whether the final is a battle between Kolkata 's bowling and Punjab 's batting , Bailey said : " No. Our team had taken the most wickets as well. That is important for us , " he said . Gambhir agreed too. " To reach the final of such a high-profile tournament , you need to do well in all three departments of the game. " On Virender Sehwag rediscovering his form with a sizzling 122 against CSK , Gambhir said. " A big-match player will put his hand up in such situations. I have always believed that he is the greatest match-winner that India has ever had , " he said . Meanwhile Bailey was not worried about Glenn Maxwell 's slump. " The pleasing thing for us is that if Maxi gets out , he does n't waste us any balls. It 's just a matter of him getting through the first couple of balls and then he is away , " he said . Gambhir backed his match-winning West Indian spinner Sunil Narine 's decision to choose IPL final over national team. " It is unfair for the player as well when there is one game which is left and you have to leave that game. He has taken the right decision. I completely support him , " he said . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Kolkata Knight Riders,Kings XI Punjab,IPL,George Bailey,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
