Kings XI Punjab bowl out Delhi Daredevils for 115 PTI | May 25 , 2014 , 05.58 PM IST Delhi Daredevils batsman Kevin Pietersen plays a shot during the IPL Twenty20 cricket match. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED CHANDIGARH : Delhi Daredevils ' final innings was as woeful as their opening one as they managed only a below-par 115 in 18.1 overs against table-toppers Kings XI Punjab in an inconsequential IPL encounter , on Sunday . Kevin Pietersen ( 58 ) finally got a half-century that had nine boundaries with a few bearing testimony of the vintage 'KP ' but his teammates again showed that most of them did n't have the application nor the zeal to finish with their heads held high . In the end , they were all-out with as many as 11 balls to spare. Parvinder Awana , Mitchell Johnson , Akshar Patel and Karanveer Singh got two wickets each . Save their skipper , none of the other Delhi batsmen scored above 15 leave alone a quickfire 20 plus score . Mayank Agarwal ( 2 ) once again played an irresponsible shot as has been the case with him in this edition and was caught by Virender Sehwag off Johnson . With 115 runs from eight games , there would always be questions raised whether the Bangalore boy deserved a chance in the playing XI after so many failures . Dinesh Karthik ( 13 ) had three boundaries but closed his bat face off Awana to give a simple catch to Akshar Patel . Save an odd performance here and there , the Tamil Nadu stumper did n't inspire any confidence whatsoever infront or behind the stumps . Kedar Jadhav ( 0 ) being promoted up the order tried to hit Awana over mid-off but Manan Vohra took a smart overhead catch to reduce Daredevils to 44 for three at the end of Powerplay . Manoj Tiwary ( 8 ) was a victim of a mix-up as non-striker Kevin Pietersen ran straight to the batsman 's end without looking at the point fielder , who lobbed it back to the bowler at the non-striker 's end to do the needful . JP Duminy ( 8 ) tried a sweep shot when a delivery from leggie Karanveer bounced a tad too much and an easy catch was taken by Akshar Patel at short cover . Pietersen was then adjudged leg-before trying to play Rishi Dhawan across the line although replays showed that the ball might have drifted down leg-side. The former England captain faced 41 balls for his 58 . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
