Kings XI Punjab bow to the might of Kolkata Knight Riders Archiman Bhaduri Archiman Bhaduri,TNN | May 29 , 2014 , 09.33 AM IST KKR maintained a clean sheet at home , winning all their four matches at the Eden. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED KOLKATA : After two days of rains which forced the Qualifier I match being pushed to its reserve day , the sun shone over Kolkata and also the Kolkata Knight Riders as they entered their second IPL final in three years defeating Kings XI Punjab by 28 runs at the Eden Gardens on Wednesday . KXIP bowlers did well to restrict KKR to 168 for eight in their 20 overs after skipper George Bailey won the toss and elected to field first . But their batsmen , who mainly played the pivotal role in the team 's success in this IPL , failed to live up to the expectation and could manage only 135 runs for the loss of eight wickets . KXIP were left to lick their wounds but will get a second chance to seal a berth in the final when they will play the winners of the Elimination tie Chennai Super Kings on Friday . Although KKR went back to their tried and tested three-spin attack by picking Piyush Chawla in place on R Vinay Kumar , it was their pacers Morne Morkel and Umesh Yadav who did the maximum damage , sharing the top five wickets between themselves with Morkel claiming two and man of the match Yadav claiming three to help KKR record their eighth consecutive win . KKR thus maintained a clean sheet at home , winning all their four matches at the Eden . Except Manan Vohra ( 26 ) , none of the other KXIP batsmen were able to put any pressure on the bowling side and it was a smooth ride for the hosts . Vohra hit Shakib-Al-Hasan for consecutive sixes in the sixth over of their innings and added another one off Morkel in the next over. At this stage it started to drizzle and KXIP perhaps wanted to stay ahead of the par score in the Duckworth/Lewis system as they expected heavy showers . But Vohra fell in the same over to Morkel while going for another huge stroke , caught by Yadav at long-off . Much was expected of Glenn Maxwell but the Australian fell for only six. Yadav claimed the prized wicket by rapping him on the pads in front of the stumps . Local boy Wriddhiman Saha played a useful knock of 31 runs off 35 balls . It was in-form Robin Uthappa who once again held the KKR innings together after skipper Gautam Gambhir fell early for one. The Karnataka opener celebrated his India call up by hitting his 10th consecutive 40 plus score . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Umesh Yadav,Morne Morkel,Kolkata Knight Riders,Kings XI Punjab,George Bailey Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
