Kings XI Punjab favourites to master Kolkata Knight Riders Sambuddha Chakraborty Sambuddha Chakraborty,TNN | May 11 , 2014 , 12.34 PM IST Glenn Maxwell has carved a niche for himself with his stroke-play and fearless approach at the wicket. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED CUTTACK : The seventh edition of the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) has been witness to some sensational batting that inadvertently drew comparisons to the likes of Sachin Tendulkar and Virender Sehwag . Although the comparisons may be a bit too premature , the Kings XI Punjab batsman Glenn Maxwell , undoubtedly , has carved a niche for himself in the sphere of T20 cricket with his stroke-play and fearless approach at the wicket . The Victorian , who scored an audacious 90 against a strong Super Kings bowling unit here at the Barabati stadium on Wednesday , will have to say a silent prayer if he is to emulate his blitzkrieg as incessant downpour from Saturday morning has cast fresh doubts over their encounter against Kolkata Knight Riders on Sunday . With the sun hardly making an appearance , the overcast conditions may well be to Punjab 's liking with pacers Sandeep Sharma and Mitchell Johnson in full swing . Sharma - part of the 2012 U19 World Cup-winning squad , has been a revelation with the ball , often leaving the opposition top-order in tatters with his movement in the air and off the pitch . The success story of Kings XI , though , does not solely rest on the laurels of Maxwell and Sharma. Their South African import David Miller , too , has been in ominous touch with the bat . With a 29-ball 66 against Royal Challengers on Friday against his name , the southpaw would be looking to extend his form against Gautam Gambhir & Co. Virender Sehwag has shown glimpses of his old self , but he is yet to make a substantial contribution to catapult him into the Indian team again. Viru 's Delhi and India opening partner , Gambhir , has been struggling with consistency . Barring Robin Uthappa , none of the KKR top-order batsmen have shown the application nor the consistency to see them through to the last-four stage . The likes of Jacques Kallis , Yusuf Pathan and Manish Pandey have hardly looked the part as Gambhir 's men have faltered five times in eight encounters . The fragile middle-order has caved in more often than not under pressure and against Rajasthan Royals they reached a new abyss , losing six wickets for just two runs in Ahmedabad. This despite a hundred-run opening stand between Gambhir and Uthappa . The bowlers , too , have been on the expensive side for KKR and with Maxwell and Miller in the opposition ranks ; things look bleak for the Morkels and the Yadavs. And Sunil Narine has hardly got support from the other end . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Mitchell Johnson,Kolkata Knight Riders,Kings XI Punjab,Glenn Maxwell,David Miller Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
