Kings XI Punjab post 179/4 against Rajasthan Royals PTI | May 23 , 2014 , 10.15 PM IST ApnaCircle My Saved articles Table-toppers Kings XI Punjab plundered 46 runs in the last three of their innings to finish with a competitive 179 for four against Rajasthan Royals. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED MOHALI : Table-toppers Kings XI Punjab plundered 46 runs in the last three of their innings to finish with a competitive 179 for four in their Indian Premier League ( IPL ) match against Rajasthan Royals here tonight . Asked to bat first , the Punjab outfit upped the ante towards the end after being 133 for four at the end of 17th over , with the in-form David Miller and skipper George Bailey remaining not outs on 29 and 26 respectively at the PCA Stadium . Shaun Marsh top-scored with 40 , which included five hits to the fence . Kings XI Punjab were off to a brisk start with Virender Sehwag dealing in boundaries , but the opener got out just when he was threatening to notch up a big score. He was caught by Vikramjeet Malik off the bowling of James Faulkner for 18 off just eight balls . It looked like a soft dismissal as Sehwag played a bit too early and ended up getting a tame top edge for the mid-on fielder to complete a simple catch . Manan Vohra too kept the scoreboard ticking and raced to 25 off 20 balls , when Stuart Binny ran the batsman out . Both Sehwag and Vohra hit three fours each and a six apiece . After KIXP lost their second wicket with the score reading 54 in the seventh over , a 59-run partnership ensued between Shaun Marsh and Wriddhiman Saha . Marsh played some good shots during his 35-ball knock and completed 4000 runs in all forms of T20 cricket. The Australian struck five fours and one six , before he was done in by a slower ball from Vikramjeet Malik . There was a brief interruption due to rain and after play resumed , Kings XI Punjab lost Saha , who was out to a well judged catch by Ajinkya Rahane in the deep off the bowling of Rahul Tewatia. The wicketkeeper-batsman made 27 off 20 balls with the help of four boundaries . After that , Miller and Bailey got together and hit three towering sixes and a four between them to prop up the innings . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
