Simmons slams ton as Mumbai Indians beat Kings XI Punjab by 7 wickets PTI | May 21 , 2014 , 09.58 PM IST Lendl Simmons hit first century of the season as Mumbai Indians ( 159/3 ) thrashed Kings XI Punjab ( 156/8 ) by 7 wickets in their IPL clash on Wednesday. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED MOHALI : Lendl Simmons hit first century of the season as Mumbai Indians thrashed Kings XI Punjab by 7 wickets in their IPL clash on Wednesday . Simmons stayed unbeaten on 100 in 61 deliveries as Mumbai Indians chased down 157-run target with an over to spare . Kings XI Punjab recovered after a middle-order collapse to post a challenging 156 for eight in their Indian Premier League ( IPL ) match against Mumbai Indians on Wednesday . Skipper George Bailey top-scored with 39 while Manan Vohra and Shaun Marsh contributed 36 and 30 respectively at the PCA stadium . Sent into bat , Kings XI Punjab were strongly placed at 90 for two after the first 10 overs , but lost their way after that before Bailey anchored the innings with some calculative batting . For Mumbai Indians , Jasprit Bumrah ( 2/31 ) and Shreyas Gopal ( 2/32 ) were the most successful bowlers . Kings XI Punjab were off with a bang as Virender Sehwag launched the innings with a couple of sixes -- the first one soaring over extra cover before the batsman dispatched a slower one straight over the bowler 's head . But the opener 's innings was cut short when he was run out in an unfortunate dismissal by Praveen Kumar who , after the ball hit no-striker Manan Vohra 's foot , run back to knock the bails off . In came Shaun Marsh and , in the season 's first appearance , raced to 30 off just 17 balls with the help of two sixes and as many fours. Vohra too went along nicely to keep the run rate healthy . But the 64-run partnership between Vohra and Marsh was ended as the Aussie went for heave towards the on side only to be bowled by Krishmar Santokie . That triggered a collapse as Kings XI Punjab lost a flurry of wickets , including the big one of Glenn Maxwell to Shreyas Gopal , to be stuttering at 116 for six in the 17th over . Bailey then added 38 runs in just 3.2 overs with Rishi Dhawan , who hit a couple of fours in his nine-ball 14 , to help KXIP 's cause . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Praveen Kumar,Manan Vohra,Kings XI Punjab,George Bailey Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
