Daredevils post 184/3 against Royals NEW DELHI : There has been a lot of talk about whether the decision of not retaining Virender Sehwag was justified , but Delhi Daredevils coach Gary Kirsten feels that irrespective how it pans out , that was the only way forward . " At the auction we made a decision to select a new squad and not retain anyone from last year. We are looking towards working with a new squad. Do n't know whether it 's a right decision or not but that 's what we have gone for , " Kirsten explained while giving a defensive logic when asked whether it 's easier that there are no baggages of last year 's failure . On the first day of Delhi Daredevils ' practise with new captain Kevin Pietersen and new bunch of players , Kirsten emphasised on team bonding more than anything else . " Guys are looking forward to being together. Eight days before match , it is important time to connect. Started connecting and getting to know each other. Enjoy each other 's company , " the former India coach said after the session . For Kirsten , coaching in the IPL will be a completely different from what he has done with the Indian team in the past . " IPL requires a lot more intensity. It 's a new challenge for me and I am looking forward to it. It 's good to be back in India personally. I always knew that I was going to come back sometime. I love watching T20 cricket and have n't missed many matches , " said the coach . He gave two monosyllabic responses of a 'yes ' and a 'no ' to two different questions . Asked if he would like to comment on the most common question on Yuvraj Singh , his response was a curt " No " . " I will only answer questions on DD , " he said. On whether he was happy with his pace bowling unit , he simply said , " Yes " . Asked if the controversies and scandals of last year would affect this edition also , Kirsten said , " Unfortunately , it 's been a part of the game and it 's not a nice element. The game certainly needs to be cleaned up and whatever can be done to champion the cause of a cricket player. " Questioned whether Kevin Pietersen 's history with the English team did come to his mind when he was offered DD 's captaincy , Kirsten straightaway waxed eloquent . " The feedback that I got from that management is that he has been an outstanding player and contributor to the team , " said Kirsten . The coach also said that the team 's strategy will change from game to game . " Strategy is not only going to be my idea. We will formulate different strategies. Gameplan and strategy will change from game to game , " he said . He admitted that Daredevils ' past seasons have been mixture of ups and downs , but said they were looking forward to having one of their better seasons this time around . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virender Sehwag,Kevin Pietersen,IPL,Gary Kirsten,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
