Suryakumar Yadav puts his troubles to rest By retaining just two players , skipper Gautam Gambhir and Sunil Narine , the Kolkata Knight Riders team management sent out a clear message — they were looking to revamp the squad in a bid to start afresh . As it turned out , they did rope in some of their old players like Ryan ten Doeschate , Manvinder Singh Bisla , Shakib-al-Hasan and Debabrata Das , along with South African all-rounder Jacques Kallis , through the 'right to match ' card . Retaining their skipper ( Gambhir ) and coach ( Trevor Bayliss ) was a wise move as it gave them time to discuss and plan the team ahead of the players ' auction earlier this year. Going by their choice of players , it seems the franchise focused on building a team for the next few seasons as well . They may have failed to retain the services of India 's new pace sensation Mohammed Shami , but the team management has accorded due importance to the bowling unit . Their pace department , in particular , looks quite strong with Morne Morkel , R Vinay Kumar , Umesh Yadav , Pat Cummins and all-rounder Andre Russell on the roster . UP 's 19-year-old Kuldeep Yadav , a left-arm chinaman bowler , is an exciting prospect and an interesting buy. If he finds his feet quickly , Yadav and fellow-mystery spinner Narine can be a handful for the opposition. Gambhir can also turn to former India leggie Piyush Chawla and all-rounder Yusuf Pathan to do spin duty . KKR 's batting , though , looks vulnerable. They have packed in too many openers , leaving gaps in the middle-order. Robin Uthappa has been in good form this domestic season but it 's time 'Baroda bomber ' Yusuf Pathan repayed the faith. He has had disastrous outings in the last three seasons. The squad has a number of strokeplayers but will again have to bank on Kallis for consistency and solidity . Kuldeep apart , the team has some other exciting Indian talents like Mumbai batsman Suryakumar Yadav , who many feel has a hand-eye coordination simi lar to that of Virender Sehwag in his prime. Having let Manoj Tiwary go , KKR will be expecting a lot from Manish Pandey too . Australian batsman Chris Lynn is an unknown quantity who has n't got too many chances to show his talent in the IPL . But he may have a role to play if the middle-order fails to deliver. Overall , the Knight Riders have done well to pick up some quality players at reasonable prices. It remains to be seen how they gel as a team . TEAM ANALYSIS STRENGTH Focus on overall team rather than big stars. A good blend of international and Indian players WEAKNESS Too many top-order batsmen , lack of solidity in the middle-order OPPORTUNITY Chance for young Indian talents like Suryakumar Yadav and Kuldeep Yadav to impress THREAT May miss out on local support due to the absence of notable players from the eastern region http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunil Narine,Kolkata Knight Riders,Jacques Kallis,IPL 7,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
