KKR storm into final with convincing win PTI | May 28 , 2014 , 08.28 PM IST KKR stormed into the final of the IPL on the back of a convincing 28-run win over Punjab , with Umesh Yadav hogging the limelight with a fine display. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED KOLKATA : Kolkata Knight Riders stormed into the final of the Indian Premier League on the back of a convincing 28-run win over Kings XI Punjab , with pacer Umesh Yadav hogging the limelight with a fine display of fast bowling . Defending 164 on a slow surface that remained under cover for three days , KKR speedsters Yadav ( 3/13 ) and Morkel ( 2/23 ) shared five wickets between them , while Piyush Chawla also bowled smartly to restrict Kings XI Punjab to 135/8 in 20 overs and hand KKR a record eighth victory on the trot . Sent into bat , KKR had posted 163 for eight , riding on in-form opener Robin Uthappa 's 30-ball 42 . In pursuit of a second title , 2012 champions KKR will take on the winners of second qualifier in the summit clash on June 1 . Orange Cap holder Uthappa once again laid the foundation with the help of four boundaries and two sixes in his 10th consecutive 40-plus score , to push KKR 's total in a rain-interrupted match . With KXIP at 17/1 in 3.2 overs , drizzle had started to fall and they were well behind the Duckworth-Lewis equation of 37 required from five overs. The umpires , though , decided to continue with the proceedings . Manan Vohra smacked Shakib Al Hasan for two consecutive sixes in the next over to make the equation in KXIP 's favour with the scoreboard reading 39/1 from five overs . But KKR bounced back to dismiss Vohra when Morkel had the opener in the next over to make the D-L equation in the home team 's favour . Dangerman Glenn Maxwell ( 6 ) did not last long and was trapped by Yadav and KXIP were 55 for three in 7.5 overs , 11 runs behind the par score . It was Saha , who looked steady in the middle and kept KXIP in the hunt with some stunning strokes , but Morkel ensured that the wicketkeeper-batsman did not prolong his innings . David Miller was dropped on 1 but he could not make it count and was castled by Piyush Chawla , while Yadav claimed his third victim in the form of the skipper George Bailiey . Earlier , the spinning duo of Karanveer Singh and Akshar Patel shared five wickets between them to help Kings XI Punjab bounce back , before KKR struck 15 in the last over to prop up the total . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Robin Uthappa,Kolkata Knight Riders,Kings XI Punjab,Indian Premier League,George Bailiey Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
