Kohli smashes 73 but RCB manage only 154/6 against CSK PTI | May 24 , 2014 , 06.03 PM IST Kohli struck 73 off 49 balls as some of the other batsmen failed to get going against a disciplined CSK attack. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED BANGALORE : Virat Kohli stood tall among his struggling teammates with a stroke-filled half-century as Royal Challengers Bangalore managed a below-par 154 for six against Chennai Super Kings in the final group league encounter of the two teams in the seventh edition of IPL . Kohli struck 73 off 49 balls with two fours and five sixes as some of the other batsmen failed to get going against a disciplined CSK attack . Veteran left-arm seamer Ashish Nehra impressed one and all with figures of three for 33 including two beautiful deliveries to dismiss Rilee Russouw ( 1 ) and AB de Villiers ( 10 ) . He got the South Africa 's limited overs captain with a perfect yorker that pegged the middle-stump back . In his final over , Nehra removed rival skipper Kohli to show that Dhoni 's decision to field him after a gap of 12 matches ( he played the first match ) was correct . Save Kohli , none of other batsmen could find their feet and he fought a lone battle against CSK . Out of his five sixes , four were hit over the deep mid-wicket region while the other was hit in the long-off region. Kohli was finally out when Nehra bowled a well disguised slower delivery that rolled into the stumps . Kohli had a 55-run partnership for fourth wicket with Yuvraj and scripted a 42-run partnership for fifth wicket with De Villiers , before the mercurial South African was castled by Nehra . With three down for 33 in sixth over , Yuvraj and Kohli out their heads down to build the innings. In tenth over , Kohli cut lose and plundered 10 runs along with Yuvraj , which also included a six off Ashwin over long-on . In the next 18 deliveries , Yuvraj and Kohli cracked 27 runs with flurry of boundaries against Sures Raina and Ashwin. However , the Rs 14-crore baby was out to a woeful shot off to left-arm spinner Ravindra Jadeja for 25 off 24 balls with two boundaries , leaving Bangalore struggling at 88 for four in 14 overs . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virat Kohli,Royal Challengers Bangalore,IPL,Chennai Super Kings,Ashish Nehra Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
