Kolkata Knight Riders beat Kings XI Punjab to win IPL 7 trophy Vedam JaishankarVedam Jaishankar,TNN | Jun 2 , 2014 , 08.38 AM IST Kolkata Knight Riders ' players celebrate with the trophy after winning IPL 7 final against Kings XI Punjab in Bangalore. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED BANGALORE : Manish Pandey played a belter of an innings to ruin Kings XI Punjab 's maiden appearance in an IPL final at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium on Sunday . His hurricane 94 ( 50 ball , 7x4 , 6x6 ) powered Kolkata Knight Riders to what seemed like an improbable win . The three-wicket win squeezed out with just three balls to spare was a veritable edge-of-the-seat affair and KKR who kept their nerve at crucial stages deservedly took home their second IPL title . The pugnacious Piyush Chawla was at the finish when the win came . Man of the match Pandey stole the show and the match from KXIP , much to the delight of a legion of KKR and Shah Rukh Khan fans . Earlier , KXIP who were gasping at 82 for 2 in 12 overs , smashed 116 runs in the last eight overs thanks to Wriddhiman Saha 's brilliant unbeaten 115 ( 75 b ; 10x4 , 8x6 ) . It was only the first century in an IPL final. Their total 199 for 4 was superb under the circumstances against what has been the best attack in the competition . Besides Pandey , skipper Gautam Gambhir and Yusuf Pathan also got cracking during the reply. They made sure that the desired run rate never went out of hand . Pandey , playing on his home soil , was in his elements , swatting , lofting and pulling the bowlers in the arc between square leg and straight boundaries. His aggressive batting kept KKR in the hunt on a pitch tailor-made for batting . Earlier , it looked like Kings XI Punjab skipper George Bailey had missed a trick or two when he changed the batting order and kept two of his most accomplished strikers - Glen Maxwell and David Miller - cooling their heels in the dugout . The Punjab team was struggling to push the score along on an outfield marginally soft and slowed down by heavy overnight rains . But Saha and Manan Vohra ( 67 ; 52b , 6x4 , 2x6 ) realised the need to step on the gas , threw caution to the winds and went hell for leather to completely change the complexion of the game . Their 129-run third wicket stand off 73 deliveries gave KXIP an excellent total to defend. Not even mystery spinner Sunil Narine was spared , particularly by a rampaging Saha . The wicketkeeper-batsman 's unbeaten century almost floored KKR. Saha was on fire , particularly in the latter part of the innings. He took 29 deliveries to reach his first 50 and then smashed the smithereens during the second 50 to reach his century in just 50 balls . KKR looked shell shocked when Saha went after their bowlers. Narine was blasted to all parts of the field while Morne Morkel , Umesh Yadav and Piyush Chawla also suffered at his hands. Only Shakib Al Hasan who bowled during the first part of the innings escaped heavy punishment . Earlier , put in to bat , Kings XI lost their star opener Sehwag cheaply. Bailey too fell without making a mark. However , Vohra kept his end going . That is till he and Saha decided to take the attack by the scuff of the neck. Unfortunately , he got beaten by Pandey . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Manish Pandey,Kolkata Knight Riders,Kings XI Punjab,George Bailey,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
