Kolkata Knight Riders beat Mumbai Indians by 41 runs in IPL 7 opener K Shriniwas Rao K Shriniwas Rao,TNN | Apr 16 , 2014 , 11.29 PM IST Kolkata Knight Riders skipper Gautam Gambhir won the toss and decided to bat against Mumbai Indians in their IPL opener. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED ABU DHABI : The opening match of the seventh edition of the IPL ended in favour of the Knight Riders , who rode on an excellent display of batsmanship from Jacques Kallis , valuable support from the young Manish Pandey and extremely incisive spells from Morne Morkel and Sunil Narine to throttle defending champions Mumbai Indians . But for the crowd here , it did n't seem to matter where the result was heading at most times . A four or a six from either team drew equal applause , as did a wicket , a catch or a jig in the outfield. Kallis , for his match-winning 46-ball 72 — with five fours and three sixes — remained the crowd 's favourite , as did Narine and Morkel , whose spin and pace made it extremely difficult for Mumbai Indians to counter . The two spinners finished with seven wickets between them as the Knights won by 41 runs . It 's not easy for all and sundry to be here for a game of cricket. But tell that to the people who jammed up the ticket website and flocked to the BCCI-designated malls to book their seats . Like in India , when stadiums have to shut music systems after 10 pm , the rule applies in Abu Dhabi too , the organisers had said. But the Knight Riders hardly waited for the music deadline to get over before they were done with the Mumbai Indians . The fans , most entertained , got to shake a leg to the best of Bollywood numbers throughout the entire duration of the game . The talented Manish Pandey , originally a Royal Challengers player who was bought later by the sacked Pune Warriors , had been failing to express himself with the bat the last few seasons. On Wednesday , standing alongside the very-experienced Kallis , the young man also freed his arms well to add to the Mumbai Indians ' misery . Pandey scored 64 off 53 balls with six fours and two sixes and that will put him in good stead as the tournament moves on . For Mumbai Indians , the fact that they had retained the core of the team did n't matter because the newcomers — Corey Anderson and Michael Hussey — failed to slip into their respective roles . It was a bad start for Mumbai , while KKR upgraded their head-to-head count against their opponents for once . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Rohit Sharma,Mumbai Indians,Kolkata Knight Riders,IPL,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
