Kolkata Knight Riders gun for playoff berth as Royal Challengers Bangalore look to stay afloat Archiman Bhaduri Archiman Bhaduri,TNN | May 22 , 2014 , 10.50 AM IST RCB can make things difficult for KKR , so the hosts need to be on their guard as they gun for a playoff slot. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED KOLKATA : Fresh from their triumph over the mighty Chennai Super Kings , the high-flying Kolkata Knight Riders will look to seal their playoff berth when they face Royal Challengers Bangalore on Thursday . Kings XI Punjab ( 18 points ) and the Super Kings ( 16 ) have already ensured their passage to the next round , while the Knight Riders and Rajasthan Royals ( 14 each ) are knocking hard . Both KKR , who have won five games on the trot , and Rajasthan Royals will be through if they clinch any of their last two fixtures . If KKR maintain their winning their winning streak on Thursday , it will be curtains for Royal Challengers Bangalore. Virat Kohli & Co , who have 10 points with two matches to play , can at best finish with a tally of 14 . So it 's a must-win game for RCB if they are to keep alive their slim chances of qualifying . KKR will start as favourites -not only because of their red-hot form but also as the Eden track is ideal for their spin-oriented attack . Sunil Narine , Shakib Al-Hasan and Piyush Chawla have taken 36 wickets among them and have tamed most of the batting units they have come up against . On Thursday , though , the trio will face a tough test as they will be up against some of the biggest hitters of the game in the form of Chris Gayle , Virat Kohli , Yuvraj Singh and AB de Villiers . Even if two of them fire , RCB can make things difficult for KKR , so the hosts need to be on their guard as they gun for a playoff slot . KKR 's Plan A has worked perfectly so far -win the toss , put the rivals in and start the chase well riding on the good form of skipper Gautam Gambhir and Robin Uthappa . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Yuvraj Singh,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Robin Uthappa,Kolkata Knight Riders,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
