Kolkata Knight Riders register big win against Kings XI Punjab Sambuddha Chakraborty Sambuddha Chakraborty,TNN | May 12 , 2014 , 08.31 AM IST Kolkata Knight Riders captain Gautam Gambhir being greeted by Kings XI Punjab 's Virender Sehwag after their IPL 7 match in Cuttack. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED CUTTACK : Steady performances with the ball and bat saw Kolkata Knight Riders hammer table-toppers Kings XI Punjab by nine wickets in their IPL tie on Sunday . Having suffered a run of five losses earlier in the tournament , KKR 's fortunes seem to have taken a turn for the better after their thumping win over Delhi Daredevils in their previous encounter . With overnight rain making way for a scorching afternoon , KKR skipper Gautam Gambhir had no hesitation in asking Kings XI Punjab to bat first on a wicket which appeared to have some bounce for the pacers . Punjab , though , got off to an electrifying start as Virender Sehwag hammered Jacques Kallis for 16 runs in the very first over . KKR , though , struck immediately in the next over as Morne Morkel sent back Mandeep Singh for a duck. Sehwag , though , continued to thrive with the rub of the green going in his favour . An outside edge of Morkel flew between the wicketkeeper Robin Uthappa and the first slip while an attempted pull of Umesh Yadav landed just out of the reach of a galloping Uthappa , running towards the fine-leg boundary . Wriddhiman Saha too joined the party with a couple of boundaries but Morkel 's pace got the better of Saha 's defence as the South African castled the Bengal batsman for 15 in his third over . Saha 's departure , though , brought out the loudest cheer amongst Kings XI supporters in the stadium as Glenn Maxwell strode to the crease . The 25-year old , though , hardly looked the part as he played and missed a few times , including a miscued lofted drive of Kallis . Sehwag on the other hand seemed to pull his halcyon days back as he brought up his half-century in 35 balls and then guided for Kallis to the point boundary with a delectable cut . The flourishing partnership , though , was cut short as Piyush Chawla ended Maxwell 's stay at the wicket in the eleventh over , with the Victorian holing out at deep square leg for 14 . Sehwag was soon sent packing after dragging one from Chawla onto his stumps for a 72 off 50 balls . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virender Sehwag,Umesh Yadav,Kolkata Knight Riders,Kings XI Punjab,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
