Kolkata meet CSK in Ranchi as IPL returns home Sourav ModakSourav Modak,TNN | May 2 , 2014 , 11.26 AM IST Dhoni has a well-balanced side at his disposal. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED RANCHI : The world is a strange place and it seems the world of the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) is stranger. Sometimes people find freedom in captivity and at other times , you become a visitor at home . The first IPL 7 match in India between Chennai Super Kings and Kolkata Knight Riders at the JSCA International Stadium complex on Friday is an example of the second kind . As Jharkhand falls under their catchment area , the Gautam Gambhir-led KKR played two of their home matches here last year. But this year , Ranchi has become CSK 's 'home ' with the Chennai franchise choosing this venue as their second ground . Now that the 'home ' tag has gone , KKR have hardly anything to find comfort in after returning from the UAE with two wins from five encounters. CSK , on the other hand , are in high spirits with four wins from five ties . For CSK , nothing could have been better than playing their first match in India in captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's backyard. The yellow brigade has plenty of reasons to feel at home here and everything is in place to suit CSK 's liking . The real battle could well be between CSK 's solid batting and KKR 's formidable bowling , but with the wicket favouring the batsmen , CSK should start as firm favourites . Dhoni has a well-balanced side at his disposal. Openers Dwayne Smith and Brendon McCullum are in touch and have given CSK an excellent start in almost every match. With R Ashwin batting at No. 8 , they have a deep batting line-up studded with stars like Suresh Raina , Faf du Plessis , Dhoni and Ravindra Jadeja . In the pace bowling department , youngsters like Mohit Sharma and Ishwar Pandey have reduced the pressure on experienced campaigners like Ben Hilfenhaus . In Ashwin and Jadeja , Dhoni has got two good spinners in the shortest format of the game. However , for KKR , batting is the main concern. The only positive for KKR in their last match against Rajasthan Royals was skipper Gambhir finding his feet with a 44-ball 45 after a horror run that included scores of 0 , 0 , 0 and 1 . Only Manish Pandey , Suryakumar Yadav and Bangladesh all-rounder Shakib Al Hasan look to be in good touch for the 2012 champions . Coming to ground realities , the turf is likely to be a belter. JSCA head curator SB Singh said he has prepared a wicket keeping in mind the entertainment factor of the spectators . And you do n't need to be an expert to know that the degree of entertainment is directly proportional to the number of boundaries and sixes in this format of the game . COACH SPEAK CSK coach Stephen Fleming spoke to the media ahead of his team 's match against KKR on Friday.. . ON PLAYING IN RANCHI " We had a great experience here with the Champions League last year. We did n't lose a game. So we are pretty familiar with the surroundings. Obviously the skipper ( Dhoni ) has a very strong connection with this city and we really enjoyed here last time. We are happy to be back. " ON HIS YOUNG PACERS " We are really happy with what Mohit ( Sharma ) has done so far. He probably comes from a higher level to start with...he has been recognized by the Indian selectors. He is still relatively new but what he and Ishwar ( Pandey ) have done is excellent. Seam bowling in the UAE is one of the reasons we won four matches there . ON SUPPORT FOR CSK IN RANCHI " We are very lucky with the fan support we have and I do n't think it matters where we play. We always get a large contingent of yellow shirts turning up. We have enjoyed our time in Chennai , played beautifully there. Fact is we are not there and we have done well here. So that 's two good grounds for us but our support wo n't die because we are not playing in Chennai. In fact it will get stronger with the fan base we got. " RCB coach Daniel Vettori is hopeful his team will play to its potential in the Indian leg of IPL. Vettori shared his thoughts on Thursday in Bangalore.. . ON YUVRAJ SINGH 'S FORM " I think Yuvraj , if you look at his game individually , he helped us win the first one , played really well in the last game and almost got us home in the third one. Yuvi has been improving all the time and I am excited by some of his performances. " ON VIRAT KOHLI 'S CAPTAINCY " Virat has done a very good job. I have always admired leaders who have that intensity and immense desire to win. And that 's what Virat has shown so far. He is the player that young guys really want to follow. " http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Suresh Raina,Mahendra Singh Dhoni,Kolkata Knight Riders,Gautam Gambhir,Chennai Super Kings Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
