Kings XI Punjab 's Virender Sehwag made 32 off 26 against Royal Challengers Bangalore. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED DUBAI : Virender Sehwag ( 32 ) and David Miller ( 26 ) played useful knocks to help Kings XI Punjab register fifth straight victory in IPL 7 after defeating Royal Challengers Bangalore by 5 wickets . Earlier , table-toppers Punjab 's bowlers produced a disciplined performance to restrict Royal Challengers Bangalore to 124 for eight in their Indian Premier League match on Monday . Sandeep Sharma led with impressive figures of 3/15 while Rishi Dhawan ( 2/14 ) and Mitchell Johnson ( 2/19 ) chipped in with two wickets apiece. There was a wicket for Lakshmipathy Balaji also . Having missed the team 's first four games with a hamstring injury , Chris Gayle attacked from the word go , picking 20 runs in the first over of the match. But that 's all he could make as the left-handed batsman fell in the next over . Yuvraj Singh ( 35 ) top-scored for RCB with the help of three fours and a six while facing 32 balls . Earlier , RCB had a rollicking first over with the returning Gayle picking Glenn Maxwell for special treatment . The first two boundaries were not convincing but the sixes over long-on and long-off had Gayle written all over them . RCB 's joy was short-lived though as Sandeep Sharma cut short the towering Jamaican 's stay after he missed the line to be bowled off a delivery that swung away from the left-hander . More blows awaited RCB as they lost their skipper Virat Kohli cheaply , Sharma being the bowler again. The 20-year-old medium pacer from Patiala then accounted for Parthiv Patel , before Rishi Dhawan joined in the party , removing the dangerous A B de Villiers and Yuvraj Singh in quick succession . Pace spearhead Johnson and Balaji then struck to make matters worse for RCB . Kohli 's was a debatable decision as the ball seemed to be going down the legside. The batsman looked frustrated as he made his way back to the dressing room . Takawale poked at a length ball and got a thick edge that was duly taken by wicketkeeper Wriddhiman Saha . While going for big drive on the up , Patel edged one to the keeper , leaving RCB precariously placed at 26 for four . RCB put up a brief resistance before de Villiers found Maxwell at backward point. The South African put on 41 runs for the fifth wicket with Yuvraj , who was dismissed by Dhawan even before the batting team could cross 100 . Albie Morkel ( 15 ) and Varun Aaron ( 11 ) took the score past 120 . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sandeep Sharma,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Rishi Dhawan,Kings XI Punjab,IPL 7 Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
