Manish Pandey swears by life in the fast lane Vedam JaishankarVedam Jaishankar,TNN | Jun 3 , 2014 , 10.28 AM IST Pandey 's fearless and carefree batting approach has captains either applauding or wringing their hands in despair. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED BANGALORE : Manish Pandey 's fearless and carefree batting attitude was the USP which attracted Kolkata Knight Riders , according to triumphant skipper Gautam Gambhir . While these qualities are the very essence of T20 , it would be no exaggeration to state that Manish lives by them . Five years ago , a young Karnataka team led by Rahul Dravid took on Punjab in the quarterfinals of the Ranji Trophy. Punjab had made 300 and had Karnataka reeling at 272/7 . The new ball had been taken just moments earlier. Manish 's response to it was to step out and loft the Punjab fast bowlers over their heads for sixes and fours. He raced to his century and fetched the first-innings lead for his team. Karnataka advanced . The approach caught Punjab off guard while a couple of Karnataka 's accomplished batsmen confessed they would not have even dreamt of playing those shots at that stage of the game . But this is the sort of approach that has left Manish 's captains either applauding or wringing their hands in despair . His intermittent successes have often been spectacular , like the 94 against Kings XI Punjab in the IPL final on Sunday or in 2009 when he became the first Indian to make an IPL with an unbeaten 114 for RCB against Deccan Chargers in South Africa . A hernia operation in 2011 laid him low for a while. But when he returned he was as adventurous as ever. The devil-may-care attitude that was the highlight of his approach to batting remained , but none dared comment about it because Manish was still scoring those huge centuries in Ranji , Duleep Trophy or any other form of the game . Manish , whose father was an army officer , came to Bangalore on temporary transfer when his son was just seven. Staying in the army quarters and studying in an army school prob ably developed the aggressive streak in him , according to his early coach Irfan Sait . " Even at that young age he loved to bat. In camp matches he would steal a single off the last delivery of the over and keep strike. I had to speak to him about this attitude , but he continued to play as he wanted , " Sait said . When Manish 's father was transferred to Rajasthan Manish chose to stay back in Bangalore with his mother and sister because cricket opportunities in the city were greater. By then he had made a name for himself in under-15 cricket . " I rushed him into second division cricket when he was just 14. He scored a century. The seniors spoke sharply to him because he did not care too much about fielding. He answered with another ton in the next match. Gradually he also became a brilliant fielder , " said Irfan . Manish played for India under-19 alongside Virat Kohli and Ravindra Jadeja. But while their careers took off he was not given his due by selectors , who probably wanted him to bat in a conventional style . One of the repercussions of this was that as an uncapped player he commanded a lower pay packet in IPL. Manish , who was allegedly on the lookout for a better financial packet , was banned for four matches for trying to wrangle a better deal. This period , along with his hernia problems , pushed him back . But Manish proved that a good man can not be kept down for long by springing back into the thick of things with his swashbuckling batting for Karnataka , South Zone and now KKR . Those who know the youngster speak of his love for cars , bikes and speed. His collection of cars includes an Audi and a two-seater Mercedes. Among the bikes is a Suzuki Hayabusa . One teammate said he 'd rather walk than take his chances in any vehicle being driven by Manish. Obviously Manish drives as he bats -aggressively and by taking chances . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virat Kohli,Rahul Dravid,Manish Pandey,Kolkata Knight Riders,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
