Glenn Maxwell of the Kings X1 Punjab raises his bat after scoring a half-century during an IPL 7 match against Chennai Super Kings in Abu Dhabi. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED CHENNAI : Virender Sehwag may not have fired the way he would have liked to in the IPL so far , but his team Kings XI Punjab are off to a rousing start , courtesy the blistering Glenn Maxwell . India 's own maverick believes it 's Maxwell 's ability to forget what has happened in a match that makes him such a dangerous player. " It is great to have Maxwell with us in the team. After the match , he forgets what he did on the field , and is very humble , " Sehwag said . With 279 runs in three outings so far , Maxwell has become the toast of the tournament and Sehwag feels it has a lot of positive impact on the Kings XI dressing-room . " His positive energy is infectious , and he loves to play golf and goof around. It 's a great atmosphere in the dressing room with Maxwell being there , " said Sehwag . Sehwag , who scored an entertaining 30 against Sunrisers Hyderabad at Sharjah on Tuesday night , feels he is beginning to hit some form. " It is certainly a great feeling to be hitting some good form. I now intend to play well and make it count in the upcoming matches , " said the 35-year-old on the eve of Kings XI 's match against the Kolkata Knight Riders at Abu Dhabi on Saturday . Despite having years of international experience under his belt , Sehwag prefers to walk into any tournament without setting any targets for himself. Sehwag 's Punjab teammate David Miller had recently mentioned how Sehwag 's uncluttered mind was his biggest asset . " I do not keep any targets and just go with a blank mind. The whole idea is to be able to contribute for your team. While chasing , keeping up with the required run-rate is very important. Also , when we bat first , it is extremely crucial to get a good start so that the team can build on it , " Sehwag kept it simple . Music has been a great stress-buster for Sehwag for years now. In order to keep his concentration , Viru used to chant Sai Bhajans while batting. However , the swashbuckling opener seems to have changed track these days . " I 've now switched over to 'Panga Na Lo ' which is the Kings XI Punjab 's team 's anthem ! " Sehwag said. The champion opener is currently hooked to the number 'Baby Doll ' from the movie Ragini MMS 2 . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Glenn Maxwell,Virender Sehwag,Kings XI Punjab,IPL,David Miller Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
