Maxwell guides Kings XI Punjab to massive victory Arnab Lall SealArnab Lall Seal,TNN | May 8 , 2014 , 11.00 AM IST Kings XI Punjab 's Glen Maxwell being congratulated by his teammate David Miller on his half century against Chennai Super Kings during the IPL 7 match at the Barabati Stadium in Cuttack. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED CUTTACK : Glen Maxwell led the charge once again for Kings XI Punjab , scoring a brutal 38-ball 90 which helped his team get to a massive 231/4 against a hapless Chennai Super Kings on Thursday . In reply , CSK could only manage 187/6 in their 20 overs to lose by 44 runs. Aiding Maxwell in his onslaught over MS Dhoni 's men was Punjab skipper George Bailey , who scored a 13-ball 40 , and David Miller , who scored 47 . Chennai were left with the improbable task of chasing 113 from their last five overs after faltering in the first over itself , when Sandeep Sharma sent dangerman Dwayne Smith back to the pavilion . With Brendon McCullum not at his best at the other end , Suresh Raina tried to lift the scoring rate but he did not last long , being dismissed for 35 trying to hit Maxwell out of the park . Ravindra Jadeja fell cheaply , too , played on off Rishi Dhawan 's bowling. McCullum was the next to go , reducing the Super Kings to 98 for four. With the scoreboard reading 119/4 after 15 overs , the task seemed too difficult even for captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni ( 23 ) and Faf du Plessis ( 52 ) . The day belonged to Maxwell , who demolished Chennai after MS Dhoni won the toss and decided to field first. When the two teams met for the first time in this edition of the Indian Premier League , it was Maxwell who stole the limelight with a blistering 95. On Wednesday , he again tormented the Chennai bowlers , scoring eight sixes and six fours . He was particularly harsh on Ravichandran Ashwin. After being hit for two consecutive sixes by Maxwell , all Ashwin could do was to bowl two consecutive wides. In his next over , Ashwin came over the wicket but the result was no different as Maxwell scored 21 runs and also reached his half-century . Miller gave him good support from the other end and hit one of the biggest sixes of the match off Ravindra Jadeja that reached as high as the third tier . However , he failed to bring up his half-century and was bowled by Dwayne Smith for 47. That did not stop Maxwell from slowing down as he continued the onslaught. But this time also he was unable to reach the magical three-figure mark and was caught at mid-wicket off Mohit Sharma 's bowling . Earlier , asked to bat first , Kings XI Punjab could not have hoped for a better start as Virender Sehwag hammered the first ball of the match off Ben Hilfenhaus for a four through cover . In the next over he took on Ishwar Pandey as he smacked him for three fours - first through midwicket , then over extra-cover and the last one over cover . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Glen Maxwell,Kings XI Punjab,George Bailey,David Miller,Chennai Super Kings Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
