READ MORE Chris Gayle | Virender Sehwag | Suryakumar Yadav | Sandeep Sharma | Glenn Maxwell RELATED CUTTACK : Arguably the most dangerous opening batsman ever to play for India , Virender Sehwag has no qualms in stating that his Kings XI Punjab teammate Glenn Maxwell , who has been tormenting bowlers in the ongoing IPL 7 , is more destructive than him and even Chris Gayle . Maxwell has proved to be the most feared batsman in this edition of the Indian Premier League and has already notched up three 90-plus scores in the tournament . Asked if the Australian 's top-notch batting reminds him of his heydays , Sehwag responded in negative . " No , no. I was not that destructive. I was a bit , but not that much , " Sehwag said . Talking about what he likes the most about Maxwell 's batting , Sehwag said , " I do n't think he is worried about his game ; he 's more worried about golf and practises more golf than cricket. He just goes out there in the middle , gives his 100 percent out there and comes back happily with whatever he gets. " The Delhi-based player said Maxwell is more dangerous than the strapping West Indian Chris Gayle . " I think Maxwell. He and Miller. If the two of them going , it becomes very difficult for the bowling side because if one misses a ball , the other makes up for it with a six , " he was quoted as saying in the IPL official website . After scoring a 23-ball 30 in KXIP 's big win over Chennai Super Kings here yesterday , the out-of-favour India opener said the best is to yet to come from his blade . " Not yet. The best is yet to come. I am striking the ball well and would like to continue to contribute to the team. I have been scoring 20s and 30s , but now it is time to score like the way Maxwell has been doing. Hopefully , in the coming games I will score big . " Today , I was a bit unlucky ; I got an edge and it went on to hit the wicket. In the coming games , I will try to be a little more careful and not do anything rash after getting a start and concentrate a bit more. " Coming back to Maxwell , Sehwag says he feels like as if the Australian is playing book cricket . " Absolutely ! The kind of form he is in , it is so difficult to stop him. Nothing matters to him - the bowlers or the fielders or the boundary. I felt like he was playing book cricket and every time he opened a page , it was four or six. It has been great to watch him bat. " Sehwag also spoke about the younger crop of players in the KXIP set-up . " I speak a lot to the younger guys. We have some young Indian batsmen like Gurkeerat Singh , Wriddhiman Saha , Mandeep Singh , Manan Vohra and even Pujara. They all talk to me about T20 cricket and how they can improve their game and what they should do to keep their game intact when they are not playing . " I share my experience with them. It 's good to chat with the young players because it makes you feel young too. " As far as young Indian players are concerned , Sehwag said Kolkata Knight Riders ' Suryakumar Yadav , CSK 's Mohit Sharma and his own teammate Sandeep Sharma . " Sandeep Sharma and Mohit Sharma are the two guys who have impressed me the most. As far as batsmen are concerned , I really like the look of Suryakumar Yadav. He seems like a very good talent and if he continues to focus , he has the ability to score a lot of runs in the future and also maybe play for India one day. " Talking about Sandeep 's bowling , Sehwag said , " I like the fact that he can swing the ball in as well as take it away. Also , he has tremendous control over his bowling . " For us , he has been very vital because he gives us early breakthroughs , in the first or second over , which is very important in this format. " http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Chris Gayle,Virender Sehwag,Suryakumar Yadav,Sandeep Sharma,Glenn Maxwell Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
