" Glenn Maxwell is a gifted cricketer and has every shot in his repertoire , " says Kings XI Punjab skipper George Bailey. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED CHANDIGARH : Aussie Glenn Maxwell has caught the imagination of every Indian with his superlative hitting in this year 's IPL. Several epithets and sobriquets have been showered on the 25-year-old Victorian . While , Indian captain MS Dhoni compared Maxwell 's hitting prowess to that of Sachin Tendulkar and Virender Sehwag 's in one of the post-match presentation ceremonies , Sehwag went a step further and said that Maxwell 's " impact of destruction " is far more than his and Chris Gayle 's put together . For a TV viewer or a spectator on the ground , watching Maxwell bat is totally 'paisa-vasool'. So does Maxi play to the stands ? Is it just slam-bang cricket for him ? Can he adjust his game to different conditions ? TOI posed these questions to his Australia and now Kings XI Punjab captain George Bailey and got an insight about Maxwell 's thought processes . " Maxwell is a gifted cricketer and has every shot in his repertoire , " says Bailey. " However , that does n't mean he goes slam-bang right from the start. He is not a slogger. If you have noticed when he goes out to bat , generally there is Viru at the other end , who has already given the team a fast start and is going great guns. Here Maxi takes the backseat . " Again it is quite noticeable that his first 10-15 runs generally come at run-a-ball where Maxi is giving himself time to settle down. Then he has specific targets in the opposition bowling attack and he tries to take maximum advantage of their overs. Accordingly he also manipulates the field. So his hitting has a method and plan attached to it , " Bailey goes on to add . Bailey also feels that Kings XI Punjab team management has created a conducive atmosphere where players can express themselves freely both on and off the field , which is resulting in good performances this season . " No doubt it has been a great season for us so far. It is a versatile team that can play and win in all conditions. But , credit must also go to the team management and a highly efficient coaching group. They allow dynamic players like Maxwell , Miller , Viru to go out there and express themselves freely , which is extremely important to have results in your favour , " Bailey reflected . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virender Sehwag,Sachin Tendulkar,Kings XI Punjab,Glenn Maxwell,George Bailey Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
