Kings XI Punjab 's Glen Maxwell being congratulated by his teammate David Miller on his half century against Chennai Super Kings during the IPL 7 match at the Barabati Stadium in Cuttack. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED CUTTACK : Glenn Maxwell 's stupendous 90 and skipper George Bailey 's unbeaten 40 powered Kings XI Punjab to a comfortable 44 runs victory over Chennai Super Kings in IPL match . Chasing massive 232-run target , CSK ended at 187/6 in 20 overs. With this victory , the Punjab outfit regained their top spot in points table . Earlier , Maxwell rained with fours and sixes in a stupendous exhibition of strokeplay as his 90 off just 38 balls took Kings XI Punjab to a mammoth 231 for four in their IPL match on Wednesday . Maxwell , the most prolific scorer this season , continued with his show of incredible batting prowess as he butchered the Chennai bowlers to submission to almost single-handedly take Punjab to the highest total of the IPL 7 so far after his side was put into bat . Except for Mohit Sharma ( 2/15 ) , all the Chennai bowlers were punished heavily with Ishwar Pandey ( 0/41 ) , Dwayne Smith ( 1/36 ) , Ravindra Jadeja ( 0/37 ) and R Ashwin ( 0/38 ) being at the receiving end as the 25-year-old Australian hit six fours and eight sixes in front of a packed crowd at Barabati Stadium . He stitched 135-runs with David Miller ( 47 off 32 balls ) for the third wicket from just 10.4 overs after the duo came together in the sixth over at 38 for two . The duo added a phenomenal 88 runs in the five overs after the halfway mark , scoring 17 , 14 , 21 , 18 and 14 each over with the 100-run partnership between Maxwell and Miller coming up in just 8.4 overs . Punjab added an incredible 162 runs in the second half of their innings with captain George Bailey chipping in with a cameo of 13-ball 40 not out towards the end to take his side to the fifth highest total in IPL history . Earlier , opener Virender Sehwag ( 30 ) began with a bang by hitting the first ball of the innings. He hit three fours off Ishwar Pandey in second over to give Punjab a flying start . His opening partner Mandeep Singh , who replaced Cheteshwar Pujara at the top today , was out for just three of the bowling of Mohit Sharma in the fifth over while trying for an unnecessary shot . Sehwag was non-plussed even after the departure of his opening partner Mandeep Singh in the sixth over as he hit Mohit for a four the next ball. But just when it looked like Sehwag he has returned to his explosive best , he got out next over of the bowling of Hilfenhaus . The out-of-favour former India opener dabbed at a good length delivery with an angled blade and Hilfenhaus managed to nip it back enough to take the inside edge , hit the pads and cannon into the stumps. Sehwag once again got the start but failed to convert it to a big score in this IPL . Then the in-form Maxwell and Miller took over and the duo hit a flurry of fours and sixes with Ashwin being the receiving end of the duo 's fury. Maxwell smashed Ashwin for three sixes while Miller did the same once as the off-spinner conceded 38 runs from two overs . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virender Sehwag,Kings XI Punjab,IPL 7,Glenn Maxwell,George Bailey Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
