MCA in a fix over SRK 's entry to Wankhede Stadium PTI | May 14 , 2014 , 06.26 PM IST READ MORE Vilasrao Deshmukh | Sharad Pawar | Shah Rukh Khan | Mumbai Cricket Association | IPL governing council RELATED MUMBAI : The Mumbai Cricket Association ( MCA ) finds itself in a catch-22 situation as it may have to allow Kolkata Knight Riders ' co-owner Shah Rukh Khan at Wankhede stadium if it wants to host the IPL final on June 1 . One of the conditions put forth by Indian Premier League Chairman Ranjib Biswal to MCA , one was to allow entry to all franchise owners and officials for hosting the finals . The Bollywood superstar was banned for five years from entering MCA premises , including the Wankhede Stadium , by the Association 's managing committee , headed by the late Vilasrao Deshmukh , on May 18 , 2012 after he was involved in a skirmish with security staff and officials of the cricket body after his team 's victory over Mumbai Indians two nights earlier . Biswal had Tuesday replied to protest letter it received from the MCA attaching a list of do 's and dont 's , which have been clearly defined in the letter . Some of the other conditions put out by the IPL were to allot 85 per cent parking slots to IPL , no ambush marketing at the stadium , no bursting of fire crackers post 10 pm , limited number of accreditations to MCA members . The MCA will have a managing committee meeting on Thursday evening to discuss these conditions . However , it is not clear whether the MCA would lift the ban , as sources said there is no IPL rule that owners must be present for the final . Yesterday , the IPL Governing Council deferred its decision over the protest letter it received from the MCA against the shifting of the cash-rich league 's final from Wankhede to M Chinnaswamy Stadium in Bangalore . Stung by the Governing Council 's decision to shift the final assigning any specific reasons , MCA president Sharad Pawar had shot off a protest letter to the Board . Pawar had shot off the letter to the IPL Governing Council and all BCCI members , demanding a real reason behind shifting the T20 extravaganza 's grand finale to Bangalore from its original venue . The letter by Pawar had asked for the reason for this decision of the Governing Council . " Considering that 20 matches of the ongoing Pepsi IPL season were played overseas , the GC took a decision to try and take the play-offs to as many stadia as possible. Several venues had expressed their interest in hosting the play-offs , " BCCI had said when announcing the revised knock-out schedule . Protesting the BCCI move , officials of the MCA had handed over their IPL accreditations to the tournament organisers . On Saturday , IPL 's GC got involved in a tele-conference and decided to allot the final to the Karnataka Cricket Association . The May 30 Qualifier 2 , however , is scheduled as per original fixture at the Wankhede Stadium , which has already hosted three home games of Mumbai Indians and is set to host two more on May 23 and 25 . The May 28 eliminator has been allotted to the Cricket Club of India 's Brabourne Stadium . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Vilasrao Deshmukh,Sharad Pawar,Shah Rukh Khan,Mumbai Cricket Association,IPL governing council Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
