McCullum sizzles as CSK post 148/3 against KKR PTI | May 2 , 2014 , 11.16 PM IST In a contest that was reduced to 17 overs per side after rain delayed the start by an hour and 40 minutes , CSK also got valuable contribution from Suresh Raina ( 31 ) . ( PTI Photo ) RELATED RANCHI : Brendon McCullum sizzled with an enterprising half-century after the Indian Premier League arrived in the country to the pitter-patter of rain , powering Chennai Super Kings to a daunting 148 for three against Kolkata Knight Riders on Friday . McCullum pulverised the Knight Riders attack during a 40-ball 56 , which contained five boundaries and two sixes . In a contest that was reduced to 17 overs per side after rain delayed the start by an hour and 40 minutes , CSK also got valuable contribution from Suresh Raina ( 31 ) . Mahendra Singh Dhoni ( 22 ) and Ravindra Jadeja ( 17 ) remained not out . Opting to bat , the two-time former champions raced away to 20 before Shakib Al Hasan , who opened the bowling for KKR , dismissed Dwayne Smith in the third bowl of the third over . Going for a sweep , Smith , after kick-starting the innings with a boundary , missed the line to be trapped in front of the wicket for a 11-ball 16 at the JSCA International Stadium Complex . McCullum , however , carried on and pulled R Vinay Kumar with utter contempt over the deep midwicket fence for a maximum . Another short one from Piyush Chawla was dispatched over the on side for a boundary by McCullum . KKR bowlers , especially Vinay Kumar , was guilty of bowling too short and McCullum took full advantage pulling him for two more fours . Suresh Raina , meanwhile , was content playing the second fiddle to the New Zealander , before he lofted Chawla straight down the pitch for a massive six. Using his wrists , the left-handed batsman found the gap between deep midwicket and long on for another four , before driving Shakib through the covers . However , a waist-height full toss from Shakib did the trick for KKR with Raina holing out at long on in the 11th over , even as CSK inched towards 100. Rain faced 25 balls for his knock , which had four boundaries and a six . Jacques Kallis was introduced in the 12th over and he was greeted with a six by McCullum , which also brought up his fifty . But Andre Russell got the burly Kiwi batsman after he had him caught at deep point in his very first over , leaving skipper Dhoni to do the hitting in the innings ' final over that fetched 15 runs . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Suresh Raina,Shakib Al Hasan,Kolkata Knight Riders,Chennai Super Kings,Brendon McCullum Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
