Millionaire Maxwell promises better returns this IPL PTI | Apr 19 , 2014 , 05.47 PM IST Glenn Maxwell raises his bat after scoring a half century during an IPL 7 match against Chennai Super Kings in Abu Dhabi. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : He could n't quite live upto the million-dollar price tag in the IPL last season but after a spectacular debut for Kings XI Punjab this year , Australian batsman Glenn Maxwell says the " relaxed atmosphere " in his new team will help him be a consistent performer . " It always feels nice when you know that you are going to be a regular in the playing eleven , something which was not possible at a star-studded Mumbai outfit. Here I feel more relaxed and do n't feel the same pressure of expectations. The start has been good and hopefully we will only get better from here , " Maxwell said from Dubai a day after hammering 95 off 43 balls to ensure Punjab made short work of Chennai Super Kings ' 205 in their IPL opener in Abu Dhabi . He surely set the the tournament on fire yesterday courtesy his sensational innings but it was not all hunky dory last season . Maxwell could not make an impact in the three games he got after being snapped up for USD one million by Mumbai Indians , a team which boasted of international stars such as Sachin Tendulkar , Ricky Ponting , Kieron Pollard , Rohit Sharma and Dwayne Smith . " That way , it is a lot different at Kings XI. The Mumbai Indians had all bases covered and the plan was to win every match and eventually the tournament. Here , the goals are different. We do n't have big international names so the focus is on just doing the best we can in a game and improve from there on , " said the 25-year-old Victorian . Asked about the Punjab squad led by his Australian one-day skipper George Bailey , Maxwell said : " It is a nicely balanced bunch and the presence of experienced Indian guys is a great help. Viru ( Sehwag ) is still an unbelievable and it is incredible what Cheteshwar Pujara has done in Tests in such a short time. " 'Maxi ' , as he is casually called , showed enough signs yesterday that his ominous form at the World T20 has carried on to the IPL . His creative shots often leave many flummoxed but the diminutive batsman insists it does n't require a lot of work . " I actually practice not just one specific stroke during training. And even something like a switch hit and a reverse sweep is not something I always try in the nets. I make sure I play all types of bowling including the throwdowns and try to hit the ball clean , " he said explaining his practice routine in a nonchalant tone . How about pacing his innings and managing a high strike-rate ? " I take things ball by ball mate , trying to find the gaps and manipulate the field. " Last year , Maxwell became a rare millionaire who drove a 15-year-old sedan and this season he has gone a step further . " I have got rid of that car mate. I have come to a conclusion that I do n't need one anymore. Roaming around in cabs is much easier and I have got people who deal with stuff like this and other money matters. It helps me maintain my focus on the field , " he quipped . On to his Australia career and the constant queries on what he is doing to transform himself into an all-format cricketer , much like compatriot David Warner . " I think I have been asked about Warner some 200 times. He has obviously been a revelation for Australia. Not many people thought he could graduate from T20s and look what he has done. I too love playing in the longest format. Hopefully I will get my chances , " summed up the player who has represented Australia in two Tests , 24 ODIs and 21 T20 Internationals . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = IPL,Sachin Tendulkar,Kings XI Punjab,Glenn Maxwell,George Bailey Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
