Mission impossible for Mumbai Indians Ehtesham Hasan Ehtesham Hasan,TNN | May 23 , 2014 , 11.26 AM IST Mumbai can count themselves lucky to play their last two games at the Wankhede. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : With their chances hanging by a thread , Mumbai Indians go into their penultimate game of IPL 7 against bottom-placed Delhi Daredevils , hoping against hope to qualify for next week 's playoffs . The reigning champions , whose campaign caught wind a little too late in the day with two back-to-back wins against Rajasthan Royals and Kings XI Punjab , need Royals to lose their remaining two games to proceed further in the competition . Mumbai 's final league match is against Royals on Sunday , but the picture will be clearer following Friday night 's encounter between Rajasthan and Kings XI Punjab . If the Royals fail to get the better off Kings XI , then it will be a straight shoot out between them and MI for the playoffs . But for that to happen , the hosts will have to first tide over the challenge from Delhi who have had some wood on them in the past . The Daredevils have won just two games in this edition and one of those came against Mumbai in Sharjah. Mumbai , however , can count themselves lucky to play their last two games at the Wankhede , a place where they have lost just once in their last eleven outings . It does look difficult for things to pan out the way captain Rohit Sharma and his men want them to , but looking back at the disappointing season , Mumbai Indians and Delhi Daredevils think tanks do have a lengthy autopsy to conduct to look into the reasons for the poor show . One big positive to have come out this season for MI is opener Lendl Simmons. Much like his West Indian colleague Dwayne Smith , who was put on the block earlier this year , the 29-year-old has shown the wherewithal to be seen as a long term prospect . Simmons was drafted into the squad for the India leg of the tournament after all-rounder Jalaj Saxena was ruled out due to a finger injury. The Trinidadian struck the first hundred of the season against Kings XI Punjab on Wednesday to keep MI 's hopes flickering . Simmons has recorded scores of 38 , 68 , 12 , 62 and 100 not out in his last five outings and it only bodes well for the franchise that has perennially struggled to find the right combination at the top . For the Delhi Daredevils , they have little option but to revisit the drawing board yet again after choosing to start afresh this season. For starters , more than Kevin Pietersen the captain , Delhi needs the free flowing spirit of Kevin Pietersen the batsman to inspire the men around him . No attack is good enough to stop the towering Englishman when he gets going . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Rohit Sharma,Mumbai Indians,Kevin Pietersen,IPL,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
