Mumbai Indians ' Harbhajan Singh celebrates the wicket of Kevin Pietersen of Delhi Daredevils during their IPL 7 match. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : Mumbai Indians handed Delhi Daredevils their eighth straight loss , beating them by 15 runs in their Indian Premier League ( IPL ) match at the Wankhede Stadium on Friday . Mumbai 's third win on the trot kept them in the hunt for a playoff spot -- all be it the smallest of chances . Mumbai Indians have 12 points , the same as Sunrisers Hyderabad and the only chance of either team making it to the playoffs would be if Rajasthan Royals , who are in fourth with 14 points and a game in hand , lose both their final matches . The Daredevils ' dismal run since returning from the UAE continued. Delhi are bottom of the table having won just two of 13 matches , both their victories coming in the UAE leg . An 85-run fourth wicket partnership between Manoj Tiwary ( 41 ) and J.P. Duminy ( 45 not out ) took Delhi close but it was n't enough as they were restricted to 158 for four in 20 overs . Kevin Pietersen ( 44 ) got things rolling for the Daredevils but Murali Vijay ( 8 ) and Dinesh Karthik ( 7 ) failed as Delhi managed just 61 runs off the first 10 overs . Tiwary and in particular Duminy played superbly to make a match off the contest but had a little too much to do as they fell 15 runs short . A power packed half-century from Michael Hussey ( 56 off 33 ) helped Mumbai score 173 all out in 19.3 overs . Lendl Simmons ( 35 ) and Hussey bludgeoned their way to a 87-run opening stand off just 48 balls . Hussey was dismissed in the 12th over with the score on 120. Rohit Sharma ( 30 ) looked to started from where Hussey left off but the captain 's fall had catastrophic effect on the team as they lost eight wickets for just 33 runs-- giving Delhi a way back . South African leggie Imran Tahir bagged three wickets while Jaydev Unadkat chipped in with two . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Rohit Sharma,Mumbai Indians,Michael Hussey,IPL,Indian Premier League Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
