Mumbai Indians face formidable Chennai Super Kings in IPL 7 Eliminator Gaurav Gupta Gaurav Gupta,TNN | May 28 , 2014 , 09.49 AM IST Playing for rival teams , the Hussey brothers will try to outwit each other. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : Buoyed by their magical win against the Rajasthan Royals on Sunday that saw them make the playoffs , Mumbai Indians now take on formidable Chennai Super Kings in the Eliminator on Wednesday night at the Brabourne Stadium . It is a match-up not even the most die-hard MI fan would have imagined a month back , when the team was struggling in every department after losing its first five games in UAE . But the hosts have shown amazing resilience to win seven out of their nine games in India which has given them a new lease of life . While CSK still go into this game as favourites , having beaten MI twice already this season , Sunday night 's miraculous jail-break may just turn the defending champs into a different side altogether . The biggest dangerman for CSK could be Corey Anderson , who re-discovered his powers at the perfect time in the crunch game against the Royals , blasting an unbeaten 95 off merely 44 balls to pull off an impossible chase for MI. Having struggled earlier in the tournament , the Kiwi will feel confident of producing an encore . It is not just Anderson , though , that CSK need to keep in check. After trying out various combinations at the top , MI finally struck gold with a lethal opening pair in Michael Hussey and Lendl Simmons . The veteran Aussie , like Anderson , has found his touch after floundering initially , while the West Indian has principally been responsible for MI 's turn in fortunes . Following this trio is skipper Rohit Sharma , all-rounder Kieron Pollard and Ambati Rayudu. Sharma and Pollard can carry out the salvage operation and launch a decisive counter-attack , while Rayudu can perform the support act brilliantly as he did on Sunday . Worryingly for CSK , they have lost three out of their last four games , though it must be said that maintaining the same intensity does become difficult once the team is through to the playoffs pretty early . They would be boosted by the return of Brendon McCullum , who flew to New Zealand for the birth of his second child. McCullum has formed a successful opening stand with Dwayne Smith , an MI recruit last season. The big-hitting West Indian has hit five half-centuries so far . Faf du Plessis , who partnered Smith , during McCullum 's absence , looks dangerous too. Suresh Raina and MS Dhoni are far too experienced in this situation and continue to remain the most dangerous finishers around . CSK 's bowling too looks much more dangerous than MI 's. Spinners R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja are a handful in this format , while the pace attack looks secure in the young hands of Ishwar Chand Pandey and Mohit Sharma . With Australia 's Ben Hilfenhaus to back them up and Ashish Nehra back in form , Chennai look well equipped to take on MI 's batting might . The CSK-MI rivalry is slowly developing into cricket 's version of the 'El Classico. ' MI have nine wins against the most consistent team of the league , the most times CSK have lost to anyone . In the knockouts , however , CSK hold a 2-1 edge. They beat them in the 2010 final at the DY Patil Stadium and then again in the Eliminator in 2012 , in Bangalore. MI , though , returned the favour by beating them in last year 's final in Kolkata . In their previous clash at the Brabourne Stadium in 2010 , MI , in the midst of a great run at CCI , had beaten CSK easily. This season , MI have lost to CSK twice already. Will they be third-time lucky ? http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Suresh Raina,Rohit Sharma,Mumbai Indians,MS Dhoni,Chennai Super Kings Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
