Mumbai Indians gear up for Royal Challengers Bangalore Gaurav Gupta Gaurav Gupta,TNN | May 6 , 2014 , 10.54 AM IST Playing in familiar surroundings at home , MI look a far more dangerous team. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : Having infused some life into their campaign with a stunning win over Kings XI Punjab on Saturday , their first this IPL season , Mumbai Indians face another tough game as they try to climb up the points table . On Tuesday night at the Wankhede Stadium , they will be up against the batting might of Royal Challengers Bangalore , who beat Sunrisers Hyderabad on Sunday , riding on an incredible knock from AB de Villiers . The swashbuckling South African showed exactly why he is rated by many as the top limited overs batsman in world cricket , blasting eight sixes in a 41-ball , unbeaten 89 to fashion a fabulous win for RCB . The scary thought for the Mumbai Indians is that the other marauder in the RCB fold , Chris Gayle , is slowly but surely finding his groove. After missing the first four games due to a back injury , the Jamaican looked to be shaking off the rust against Sunrisers before getting dismissed . Gayle has put the MI attack to the sword at the Wankhede before - he had carted a 59-ball , unbeaten 82 against them back in 2012 . Beyond Gayle and De Villiers , MI will have to plan for the other big guns in the RCB artillery - skipper Virat Kohli and Yuvraj Singh . Both have sizzled in bursts , but both possess the quality to tear apart any attack. It will be interesting to see how the Wankhede crowd reacts to Kohli . The star bat had criticised their behaviour after being booed at this venue last year , following a controversial run out appeal which he did n't withdraw. Kohli has risen in stature in Indian cricket dramatically since that episode , and is seen as heir apparent to current captain MS Dhoni . With the experienced Zaheer Khan down with a side strain , MI are n't best-placed to take on this heavy batting machine , which will worry their 'star-studded ' think-tank no end. They will largely bank on the brilliance of Lasith Malinga to derail RCB . Right now though , the hosts have reason to be cheerful. Buoyed by their vociferous home crowd , they opened their account against a formidable side on Friday. Playing in familiar surroundings at home , MI look a far more dangerous team - they had won all their eight games at the Wankhede last season - a factor that went a long way in them clinching the title . In Kieron Pollard , they have a finisher as good as any in the world. Skipper Rohit Sharma is due for a big one , while Kiwi all-rounder Corey Anderson will look to improve on his man-of-the-match performance on Saturday . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Yuvraj Singh,Virat Kohli,Rohit Sharma,Mumbai Indians,Chris Gayle Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
