Mumbai Indians look for a lift against Chennai Super Kings K Shriniwas Rao K Shriniwas Rao,TNN | Apr 25 , 2014 , 09.53 AM IST Mumbai Indians have simply failed to get going especially in the batting department. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED SHARJAH : Apart from winning matches , there 's been plenty of activity that 's been happening in the Mumbai Indians camp. The entire week , lasting up to April 24 , was one filled with celebrations as team owner Mukesh Ambani brought in his 57th birthday and former skipper and icon player Sachin Tendulkar turned 41 . The last game Mumbai Indians played here was on April 19 , Ambani 's birthday , and there 's been a five-day break since . Whether the break helped them rejuvenate or gather more rust will be known on Friday evening at the Dubai International Cricket Stadium when they take on the formidable Chennai Super Kings . MI played a practice match against the UAE national team on Wednesday when CSK were busy overpowering the Rajasthan Royals. MI returned to practice once again on Thursday afternoon while CSK decided to rest for the day . It was a clear indication of how the two teams were placed in their minds ahead of the big-ticket clash. Chennai go into the match riding on back to back wins - the first a massive one against Delhi Daredevils and the second a low-scoring tie against the Rajasthan Royals. The first match showed CSK 's batting prowess in Abu Dhabi while the second , in Dubai , gave an idea of the depth in their attack . MI , on the other hand , have simply failed to get going especially in the batting department. The top-order , with out-of-touch Michael Hussey opening the innings , and Tendulkar missing in action post retirement , has looked shaky in both games so far . It is the team 's bowling led by Lasith Malinga , Zaheer Khan and Harbhajan Singh , that looks in good form. The trio 's efforts helped them make a fist of things despite putting up less than 120 against Royal Challengers . The wicket in Dubai , regardless of the toss , has been good to play on in either innings. At the same time , the track gave the spinners a lot to look forward to in the match played here on Wednesday . If conditions stay the same , both bowling sides will have enough arsenal to bring on and it is only the MI batsmen who will be tested once again , especially in comparison to the might of the Super Kings . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Zaheer Khan,Sachin Tendulkar,Mumbai Indians,Michael Hussey,Chennai Super Kings Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
