Mumbai Indians relying on its core group to deliver Ehtesham Hasan Ehtesham Hasan,TNN | Apr 12 , 2014 , 12.30 AM IST READ MORE Zaheer Khan | Rohit Sharma | Lasith Malinga | Kieron Pollard | Aditya Tare The MI management may have entrenched their faith in the core group of their side by retaining Rohit Sharma ( captain ) , Lasith Malinga , Pollard , Harbhajan Singh and Ambati Rayudu , but their bowling does appear to be over-reliant on Sri Lankan slinger Lasith Malinga. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED Do n't regret missing out on century : Rohit MUMBAI : Why change a winning combination , is a common theory we get to hear in a team sport. The Mumbai Indians have taken the axiom a little too earnestly by re-signing 11 players for IPL 7 from last year 's squad that finally brought home the silverware after six attempts. While there 's nothing wrong with that , the theory of sticking to winning combinations more often than not works during a lengthy league or a tournament and not necessarily from one season to the other . There are other things that need to be factored in. Like the form and fitness of key players heading into the season. For instance , coach John Wright and mentor Anil Kumble would desperately want to know how well has Kieron Pollard recovered from a knee injury ( sustained while playing a charity football match ) that kept him out of cricket for six months . While they will be heartened to hear that the Trinidadian power house has struck a hundred in a three-day Caribbean first-class game against Jamaica , they would want to know if he is still as athletic in the outfield and will be game to send down four overs given the nature of injury. That , of course , remains to be seen . Then there 's the case of Corey Anderson. The New Zealander is nursing an injured finger and there is a question mark over his availability for the UAE leg . The MI management may have entrenched their faith in the core group of their side by retaining Rohit Sharma ( captain ) , Lasith Malinga , Pollard , Harbhajan Singh and Ambati Rayudu , but their bowling does appear to be over-reliant on Sri Lankan slinger Lasith Malinga . There 's a belief that Malinga and Zaheer Khan will lend balance to the attack , but the latter , at 35 , seems to be over the hill. It 's a mystery why MI , despite their deep pockets , did not hold on to a hot property like Mitchell Johnson . The arrival of Mike Hussey will bolster the batting that is void of big names. Nicknamed Mr. Cricket , the Aussie pro is someone whom MI can count on even as the likes of Rayudu , Aditya Tare , Rohit and Pollard will look to bat around the veteran . As far as the spin department goes , MI will hold their own with Harbhajan Singh and Pragyan Ojha in business . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Zaheer Khan,Rohit Sharma,Lasith Malinga,Kieron Pollard,Aditya Tare Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
