Mumbai Indians take on Chennai Super Kings at Wankhede Ehtesham Hasan Ehtesham Hasan,TNN | May 10 , 2014 , 10.43 AM IST Mumbai have inflicted more losses on CSK than any other franchise. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : After being derailed by Kings XI Punjab for the second time this season , the MS Dhoni-driven Chennai express will roll into Mumbai Indians ' bastion , otherwise called the Wankhede , to set the record straight on more than one count . For starters , when they take on the reigning champs on what promises to be a Saturday night humdinger , the two-time champions Super Kings , will look to go all out and demonstrate that the 44-run defeat suffered primarily due to the freakish talent of Glenn Maxwell , was nothing more than a bump in what had been a smooth ride till Wednesday . The reverse was perhaps due to the fact that Dhoni overvalued his team 's ability to whittle down totals and overestimated his bowlers ' skills to restrict the Kings XI batting . That of course will have no bearing on Mumbai Indians , who have quickly forgotten their Arabian misery to register two morale-boosting wins , first against Kings XI Punjab and then Royal Challengers Bangalore , to keep their slate clean at home for 10 games now . The last time they lost a game in their citadel was in 2012 , when Kolkata Knight Riders stunned them. Since then , it has been a one-way street for the blue and golden brigade . The Rohit Sharma-led side also holds the bragging rights when it comes to the rivalry between the two well-oiled units. Head to head , Mumbai have inflicted more losses on CSK ( 9 ) than any other franchise in the 16 times that they have played each other in the last seven years . CSK were bowled out for a paltry 79 on their last visit here in 2013 much against the run of play. The manner in which their famed batting had capitulated had become a talking point in a season that put cricket to shame . The defeat and other off-field distractions that have plagued CSK since then , of course , will not play on the minds of the batting line up that has unearthed a destructive opening pair in Dwayne Smith and Brendon McCullum. The duo averages close to 60 after eight games . McCullum 's assault on the Mumbai bowlers in Dubai last month , where he blasted a 53-ball 71 to carry his team home will rankle the Mumbai players , although the think-tank has done well to add medium pacer Praveen Kumar in the mix . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Mumbai Indians,MS Dhoni,Dwayne Smith,Chennai Super Kings,Brendon McCullum Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
