Patel credited veteran spinner Murali Kartik for his impressive performance with the ball. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : With six wickets from five matches at an excellent economy rate of 5.72 , Kings XI Punjab 's left-arm orthodox bowler Akshar Patel has been one of the most impressive spinners in IPL 7 so far . Despite the presence of some big names in the team , this 20-year old from Gujarat has held his own in the tournament even as his team has won all five matches so far . " The team morale is excellent. After three years , we have a new team. Our team combination has been great and it has worked for us , " Patel told TOI on Thursday . Patel credited veteran spinner Murali Kartik for his impressive performance with the ball. " I am happy with my form. I have bowled well and am glad that am able to contribute to the team 's success. Murali Kartik has been of great help , he keeps giving me bowling tips. Even Mitchell Johnson keeps guiding all of us. " The former Mumbai Indians player was also all praise for captain George Bailey. " George Bailey is a good person and an aggressive captain. He keeps encouraging us youngsters and gives us the freedom to experiment. He is also very calm. Even coach Sanjay Bangar keeps motivating and encouraging me. I have their backing. They have shown faith in me and I would like to live up to their expectations , " said Patel . One of the key players behind Punjab 's success has been Glen Maxwell and Patel said the team enjoys watching him bat. " We thoroughly enjoy watching Maxwell bat. He is an explosive batsman and has been given the freedom by the team management to play his natural game. " Asked how it feels to play alongside the likes of Virender Sehwag , Johnson , Glen Maxwell and David Miller , Patel said , " I feel proud to play alongside them. They keep chatting with me and giving me tips on how to improve my game. " http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Murali Kartik,Mitchell Johnson,Kings XI Punjab,George Bailey,Akshar Patel Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
