" Its good that no such incident ( match-fixing ) has surfaced this time , " Rahul Dravid said. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED AHMEDABAD : Rajasthan Royals ' mentor Rahul Dravid although expressed happiness that no spot-fixing or match-fixing controversy has happened till now in the ongoing edition of the Indian Premier League , he said the players need to keep their eyes and ears open all the time . " Its good that no such incident ( match-fixing ) has surfaced this time. But , we ( players and teams ) all need to be vigilant and keep our eyes and ears open , because , there will be people who will be wanting to spoil the game , " said Dravid at a press conference on Wednesday . Last season of the IPL was marred by the controversy of spot-fixing , which saw the arrest of three Rajasthan Royals players -- S Sreesanth , Ajit Chandila and Ankeet Chavan . Dravid along with the Royals captain Shane Watson , chief coach Paddy Upton and some other team players addressed a press conference here today on the eve of Rajasthan 's match against Sunrisers Hyderabad at Sardar Patel Stadium in Motera . Since Jaipur is not given any IPL match this season , Ahmedabad has been declared as the home ground of Royals , and Dravid is hopeful of getting support of the locals here . " Ahmedabad has always proved lucky for RR in the past. We are having a good record here and fans here are equally passionate for the game. I am sure that local fans will see RR as their own team , as Ahmedabad does n't have their own team in IPL. I hope that fans will support us in upcoming games. " Lauding the superb bowling performance by the 42-year-old spinner Pravin Tambe , whose hat-trick against Kolkata Knight Riders helped Royals win their previous game , Dravid said he was the face of thousands of talented yet unknown players . " He has been playing cricket for almost 20 years , yet you can see how humble and hard working he still is. He represents thousands of talented boys across India , " Dravid said . Meanwhile , Watson thanked Dravid for being the mentor. " I loved it when I was given the opportunity to become the captain. I am learning from some of the best players of the game like Rahul , who knows how to get best out of every player , " said the skipper . " The best thing about our team is that we do n't have many coaches , like one for batting , one for fielding , one for bowling , etc , " Watson added . Coach Upton , who is high on confidence having won five out of seven games so far , said : " We play without having fear of failure. Another factor is that our owners do n't put pressure on us. We created an environment for young players to play good cricket. " http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = S Sreesanth,Rajasthan Royals,Rahul Dravid,IPL 7,Ajit Chandila Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
