Gavaskar , who was appointed the interim president of the BCCI for IPL affairs by the Supreme Court , chaired the pre-IPL season Captains & Coaches meeting. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : BCCI interim president , Sunil Gavaskar stressed on the importance of playing the game according to MCC Spirit of Cricket -- Play hard , Play fair -- during Captains & Coaches meeting ahead of the seventh IPL which begun in Abu Dhabi on Wednesday . Gavaskar , who was appointed the interim president of the BCCI for IPL affairs by the Supreme Court , chaired the pre-IPL season Captains & Coaches meeting yesterday . " Sunil Gavaskar , interim president , BCCI-IPL , chaired the pre-IPL season Captains & Coaches meeting , on Tuesday , 15 April 2014. He stressed to the captains , the importance of their teams playing the game according to the MCC Spirit of Cricket - Play hard , Play fair , " a BCCI release said . " He also addressed their position as role models for followers of the game and other players , as they built their respective careers. He reinforced the core message that integrity was non-negotiable . " During the day , he also met with former and recently retired cricketers - VVS Laxman , Sachin Tendulkar , Rahul Dravid and Anil Kumble - and sought their views on various issues. Sourav Ganguly was unfortunately unavailable , as he was travelling , " said Sanjay Patel , BCCI secretary . The IPL-7 today started with a clash between defending champion , Mumbai Indians and Kolkata Knight Riders , who won the tournament in 2012 at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium in Abu Dhabi . The UAE is hosting the high-profile T20 event 's first leg from April 16 to 30 owing to a clash of dates with the Indian general elections and security concerns emanating from that . The tournament will return to India on May 2 after being assured of security in states where voting would be over by that time . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunil Gavaskar,Sourav Ganguly,Sanjay Patel,IPL,Anil Kumble Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
