Prasad bats for more Indian coaches in IPL PTI | Apr 14 , 2014 , 05.50 PM IST Venkatesh Prasad , who had been associated with the RCB and CSK as bowling coach in the past , is not part of any IPL franchise this year and he termed it as 'disappointing'. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : Saying that Indians are second to none , former pacer Venkatesh Prasad today advocated having more Indian coaches in the Indian Premier League set-up . Out of eight IPL teams , only Kings XI Punjab have an Indian Head coach in Sanjay Bangar . " It is an Indian Premier League. It is good to have a mix of foreign coaches , foreign players , because you are definitely going to improve your knowledge of the game , but it is not that all foreigners are knowledgeable . " Please let us not go by that. I think that is something which people need to understand , " said the 44-year-old former bowler , who guided Uttar Pradesh to the finals of the Syed Mushtaq Ali All T20 event . " I have seen so many players who are better than the foreign players. So many coaches in India who are better than the foreign coaches , who are part of the IPL set-up now , " added the Bangalore-born Prasad who played 33 Tests and 161 ODIs for the country between 1996 and 2001 . Prasad , who had been associated with the Royal Challengers Bangalore and Chennai Super Kings as bowling coach in the past , is not part of any IPL franchise this year and he termed it as 'disappointing' . " It is disappointing in a way because it is something that I feel every franchise needs to look at - having Indian coaches as part of their team management - for a simple reason that only four foreign players can play in the 11 and the remaining other seven are Indians , " he said . Prasad said the break from his vocation will help him analyse things from outside that he hoped would stand him in good stead next year . " It is disappointing to miss out but there is always a learning ( process ) . It is always good to step back and then look at the scenario from outside and then learn a few more things , so that you are better as a coach and better as a person when you start doing this , hopefully from the next year onwards , " he said . " I am going to be part of the media and keep watching games and keep analysing them. I would be able to watch and analyse the games and obviously learn a few things by doing those. So , I hope to increase my knowledge , " the former Karnataka player added . Prasad further said coaching in IPL side was a big challenge as everything is result-oriented . " It is an amazing challenge because you are only looked at as per your achievements and the results that you have given to the team. It 's not about what sort of a contribution you are making to the team. That is a sad part actually . " Here not only the franchise owners or people should not only look at results but also look at developing players. Whether the people in the management , the coaching staff are they doing that or not , that is also very important. But that is not the case in most of the franchises , I would say , because they are only looking at the result , " he said . Prasad , who took 96 and 196 wickets in Tests and ODIs respectively , recollected his experience of having been part of the last six IPLs as part of the Royal Challengers Bangalore franchise first and then Chennai Super Kings . " It has been a huge challenge for me being a part of six IPLs. And in that for four years I was part of Royal Challengers Bangalore and twice I was with Chennai Super Kings. I was part of the team when we won both IPL and Champions League for CSK and I have played the finals of Champions League for RCB . " In that way I have gained a lot and it has been a huge challenge to work with the players , work with that sort of set up when people are only looking at the result , where it is result-driven or result-oriented . " That really pushes you to the hilt and there are a lot of preparations that one has to work over , especially for the support staff. It is easy for the players. Coaching is probably the toughest job I have come across , " he said . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Venkatesh Prasad,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Kings XI Punjab,Indian Premier League,Chennai Super Kings Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
