Preity , along with the rest of the co-owners , gives all the credit to Sanjay Bangar for his understated contribution. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED SHARJAH : Two spectacular chases , both against strong opponents , have ensured Kings XI Punjab their best start to the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) in seven years and marked them out as strong contenders for the title this season . Hiring Sanjay Bangar as coach , buying the right set of players at the auction , investing in young domestic talent and providing the team with a good support staff have been some of the better things that Punjab have accomplished this year. The team 's co-owner Preity Zinta , who always worked up a smile even when things were n't going her team 's way the last few years , just ca n't hide her joy . " Fingers crossed , I 'm looking forward to a good tournament , " she told TOI. " All the stakeholders in Kings XI Punjab - the team owners , players , coaches and support staff , sponsors , fans - have stood by us through good and bad times. To whatever extent we succeed , it 's for all of them. " Preity , along with the rest of the co-owners , gives all the credit to Sanjay Bangar for his understated contribution. " Getting him on board is the best thing that could happen to us. He is a man of very few words but his contribution has been immense. All credit to him. He 's a very humble man and the players like him very much , " she says . Pointing out how , in the last so many years , 2014 has been the first time that Kings XI Punjab have started an IPL season on a strong note , Preity says , " It was only in 2013 that things began to get normal for the franchise. The first two years of IPL was about understanding how to go about the whole thing , but in 2010 all the wrong kind of things started to happen and we were dealing with court cases. There were issues with the BCCI and it was a very difficult phase. When you get into these things , it 's not easy at all. " In 2010 , Kings XI Punjab and the Rajasthan Royals franchises were terminated by the BCCI for 'not disclosing their internal shareholding pattern ' , following which a court battle and arbitrations ensued and both the teams were reinstated. " It becomes very difficult when you have to pay Rs 100 crore bank guarantees and it 's not just cricket playing on your mind , " says Preity . She 's glad it 's all over now and cricket has become priority. " Everything went back to normal in 2013 and this is the first time we began with a level-playing field , like everybody else. Our ownership pattern was questioned , questions were asked about my stake in the franchise. All the details were enquired into , and they all turned out to be fine , " she says , talking about those troubled days. " We need to thank the judicial system for that. " In 2008 , when the consortium - also involving businessmen Ness Wadia and Mohit Burman - bought the Kings XI Punjab franchise , they had a very good team at their disposal , says Preity. " We were n't even allowed to retain the players we wanted. There were insinuations at all times about how we had done something wrong. I was linked with cricketers. It was all very sad. " Preity certainly has not forgotten how " a hug or a handshake with players always ended up with people talking all kinds of nonsense " about her links to cricketers. " It was always rubbed in that I was a woman. 'Oh so she hugged , she must have done something more. ' I was always reminded about being a woman in a male-dominated game and I could only blame the media for that , " she says . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sanjay Bangar,Preity zinta,ness wadia,Kings XI Punjab,IPL Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
