Kings XI Punjab coach Sanjay Bangar at Eden Gardens on Monday evening. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED KOLKATA : The league phase done and dusted , it 's time for the playoffs , with Kings XI Punjab facing Kolkata Knight Riders in Qualifier I at Eden Gardens on Tuesday . Rain ruled out Monday 's match-eve practice sessions , but that should n't be a problem for the teams who have been playing frequently enough to be ready for action if the weather relents. Some showers have been forecast on Tuesday also , so the teams will keep fingers crossed . In case of a washout , though , there is a reserve day ( Wednesday ) , which is expected to be dry . The teams have treaded different paths en route to bagging the top two spots in the league table. While Kings XI Punjab were almost sure of sealing a final four berth after the first leg in UAE , where they won all five matches , the Knight Riders left it late after losing five of their first seven matches . So Tuesday 's encounter pits the most consistent side of this IPL ( KXIP , 12 wins out of 14 ) against the hottest team in the second phase ( KKR , 7 wins on the trot ) . The Knights , who finished their league campaign with three home wins - including a 161-run chase in just 14.2 overs over Sunrisers Hyderabad to ensure another appearance at the Eden - will start as clear favourites. They have a much better bowling unit than KXIP and their batting - led by Orange Cap-holder Robin Uthappa is in good health too. KKR have not only won their last seven games , but done so quite convincingly . They are certainly the team to beat . KXIP , who got a 9-wicket thrashing at the hands of KKR in Cuttack two weeks ago , may be found wanting in the bowling department. The likes of Sandeep Sharma , Rishi Dhawan , Parvinder Awana , Akshar Patel and out-of-form Mitchell Johnson will have their task cut in restricting the likes of Uthappa , Gautam Gambhir , Pathan and Shakib-Al Hasan . The resurgence of the Baroda Bomber , who bludgeoned 72 off 22 balls against Hyderabad , will give any opposition sleepless nights in trying to figure out how to stop him from repeating his Saturday heroics . Kings XI have , in Glenn Maxwell , someone who can match Yusuf 's power-hitting. Maxwell , though , faces extra pressure as KXIP rely largely on him to get a jumbo total. Pathan , by comparison , can play much more freely , knowing fully well that the top seven can all contribute . In fact , it is this aspect of everybody making some contribution that gives the Knights a further edge. That way , Gambhir is better placed than his opposite number , George Bailey . The KXIP will bank heavily on their batting to push KKR. Maxwell apart , they have some other impact players like Bailey and David Miller. And then there is Virender Sehwag , who ca n't be written off . Viru may be past his prime , but on his day , the opener can get KXIP off to a flier. The Kings XI will also look for a useful contribution from Wriddhiman Saha , who will love to make his 'homecoming ' memorable with an all-round show with the bat and big gloves . The Eden wicket is likely to assist the spinners and Gambhir could be tempted to bring back leggie Piyush Chawla -who took 3-19 in both games versus the Kings XI -and restore his three-pronged spin attack . A berth in the final awaits the winning team , but the losers will get a second chance in Mumbai on Friday . A washout will see Kings in final The IPL Governing Council has kept a reserve day for all three playoff matches as well as the final , so if the Qualifier 1 between KKR and KXIP is washed out or can not be completed on Tuesday , it will be replayed on Wednesday ( reserve day ) . However , if the match is not completed even on Wednesday , then KXIP will go through to the final on account of having more number of wins ( 11 ) in the league phase than KKR ( 9 ) . KKR will then move to Mumbai to play Qualifier II against the winners of the Eliminator between Chennai Super Kings and Mumbai Indians on Friday . Meanwhile , KKR coach Trevor Bayliss insisted that his team had peaked at the perfect time. " We have peaked at the right time very much like we had done in 2012 when we had won the crown , " Bayliss felt . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Kolkata Knight Riders,Kings XI Punjab,Glenn Maxwell,George Bailey,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
