Rajasthan Royals fail to seal playoffs berth Hindol Basu Hindol Basu,TNN | May 24 , 2014 , 08.51 AM IST Quick wickets put paid to Rajasthan 's hopes of clinching a playoff berth. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED MOHALI : A double strike by Kings XI Punjab all-rounder Rishi Dhawan derailed Rajasthan Royals ' chase of 180 runs at the PCA stadium in a crucial IPL encounter between the two teams . Dhawan got back-to-back wickets in the ninth over of the Rajasthan chase , pegging back the stumps of a well-set Ajinkya Rahane with an indipper and then rattling the furniture of Royals skipper Shane Watson with the very next delivery . RR opener Karun Nair also perished in pursuit of quick runs , gifting his wicket away to L Balaji , while Stuart Binny holed out in the deep off leggie Karanveer Singh 's bowling . The quick wickets put paid to Rajasthan 's hopes of clinching a playoff berth on Friday itself -and shutting Mumbai Indians out -as Punjab won by 16 runs . Only Sanju Samson , with 30 off 29 balls , and Hodge with 31 off 18 not out looked like putting up a fight for Rajasthan , who needed a win to seal a play-off berth . Left-arm orthodox spinner Akshar Patel was again impressive for Punjab , taking 3/24 off his four overs , as Rajasthan managed 163/8. Rajasthan , however , still have a chance of making it to the play-offs should they beat Mumbai on Sunday . Earlier , Punjab rested Glenn Maxwell but skipper George Bailey and David 'Killer ' Miller structured together a perfect finish as Kings XI Punjab posted a challenging total of 179/4 . Bailey ( 26 off 18b ; 1x4 , 1x6 ) and Miller ( 29 off 20b , 2x6 ) took a special liking to James Faulkner and smashed 23 runs of his final over. The late acceleration by the Oz-Proteas pair meant KXIP took 46 runs off the final three overs . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Rishi Dhawan,Rajasthan Royals,Kings XI Punjab,George Bailey,Ajinkya Rahane Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
