Rajasthan Royals look to rein in Chennai Super Kings Pratik Bandyopadhyay Pratik Bandyopadhyay,TNN | May 13 , 2014 , 10.09 AM IST Pravin Tambe and James Faulkner have been outstanding for the Rajasthan Royals in IPL 7. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED RANCHI : When the Chennai Super Kings team bus reached JSCA International Cricket Stadium on Monday afternoon , there were no fans to welcome them . It is unusual in Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's hometown where he enjoys demi god-like status. What kept fans indoor is the heat. Even around 6 pm , the mercury refused to drop below 40 degrees Celsius . Imagine the ordeal of playing a T20 match from 4 pm. For the same reason CSK batsmen had to play only net bowlers in practice till the lights came on . Rajasthan Royals , on the other hand , are coming off a fantastic run chase against Royal Challengers Bangalore , and their confidence would be sky high . When these two sides met in Dubai earlier in the tournament , CSK had prevailed in a low scoring match as the Royals ' batting failing miserably . But there , as Chennai bowling coach Andy Bichel pointed out on Monday , " the ball swung around. Bowlers did get some help in UAE. " Now IPL is back on familiar terrain , where any target is achievable and batsmen are likely to have the last word . While the Super Kings are looking all the more invincible this season with the addition of Dwayne Smith and Brendon McCullum to their squad , Royals are once again looking the side to beat with exciting young players like Sanju Samson and Karun Nair complementing seasoned performers Shane Watson , Smith and Faulkner . Barring the match against Sunrisers Hyderabad , when they inexplicably collapsed for 102 chasing a low target , Royals have been very competitive. If they win on Tuesday , Royals will join Super Kings and Kings XI Punjab at the top of the table with 14 points . To be played on the same strip which hosted the CSK-KKR match , spinners are likely to play a crucial role , especially when the lights come on. One of the reasons Dhoni does not mind Ranchi as his team 's 'adopted home ' is the purchase Ravindra Jadeja and Ravichandran Ashwin get from the pitch here . Jadeja , who had claimed 4-12 against the Knight Riders , will relish bowling on this surface. So would Ashwin and West Indies leg-spinner Samuel Badree . Royals will be banking on their veteran leg-spinner Pravin Tambe ( 14 wkts ) to keep CSK 's strong batting line-up in check . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Shane Watson,Rajasthan Royals,MS Dhoni,Chennai Super Kings,Brendon McCullum Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
