RCB owner lauds Parthiv , De Villiers PTI | Apr 20 , 2014 , 05.06 PM IST READ MORE Vijay Mallya | Royal Challengers Bangalore | Parthiv Patel | IPL 7 | A B de Villiers RELATED SHARJAH : Royal Challengers Bangalore owner Vijay Mallya on Sunday lauded Parthiv Patel and A B de Villiers for guiding the team to victory against arch-rivals Mumbai Indians in the Indian Premier League . " I have always said Parthiv is a gutsy , talented player - he showed it today. He was fantastic , and A B coming in there and calming things down - that was obviously expected from him - walking into a troubled situation. He did his role and performed it perfectly , " he said in a post-match interview to RCB 's official website . Both Parthiv and A B stitched a 99-run unbeaten partnership for the fourth wicket after RCB were in a tricky situation , struggling at 17 for three with Nic Maddinson , Virat Kohli and Yuvraj Singh back into the hut . Patel mixed caution with aggression to score an unbeaten 57 off 45 deliveries , while hitting seven boundaries. A B played the sheet-anchor 's role to perfection , making an unbeaten 48-ball 45 with the help of three fours and two sixes . Mallya said the depth of RCB batting not only came to the team 's rescue but also pulled them out of a hole , paving the way for a convincing victory against Mumbai Indians . " The depth of Royal Challengers batting came not just to rescue but I think it proved a very , very important point that even if we lose early wickets upfront , as we did - 17 for three - we continue to win the match and did n't lose another wicket , " he said . Mallya also lavished praise on his bowlers for restricting Mumbai Indians to a modest score . " It was great win. Our bowlers did an outstanding job by restricting Mumbai Indians to 115 , " he said . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Vijay Mallya,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Parthiv Patel,IPL 7,A B de Villiers Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
