Rejuvenated Kolkata Knight Riders take on Sunrisers Hyderabad Solomon S Kumar Solomon S Kumar,TNN | May 18 , 2014 , 10.45 AM IST The opening pair Robin Uthappa and Gautam Gambhir have been in form for KKR. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED HYDERABAD : After their stupendous run in their maiden season last year , a buoyant Sunrisers Hyderabad went in for some 'strategic ' purchases in the auction for IPL 7 to strengthen their side but somehow they seem to have missed the mark as the magic is missing from their campaign . The Sunrisers have dished out a patchy show thus far in the tournament the tournament as they have struggled to be consistent and the two back-to-back losses at home this week has put the orange brigade on the backfoot . The Shikhar Dhawan-led team is placed fifth on the table with eight points and are marginally ahead of Royal Challengers Bangalore on net run-rate . The Hyderabad side has two home games before they hit the road for their final two matches of the season. Up first for them on Sunday are the rejuvenated Kolkata Knight Riders , whom they play again in their last game on May 24 . With Kings XI Punjab , Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals making sure of their places in the playoffs , three teams are in contention for the last spot . Knight Riders , who have 10 points , surely have the edge but Sunrisers and Royal Challengers Bangalore too have a chance of making the grade but they will need to play out of their skins . Bangalore have the toughest task on hand as they face the Super Kings twice . Hence , the clash between the Sunrisers and the Knight Riders could well decide who finishes fourth and makes it to the playoffs . The odds are definitely stacked against the hosts as the visitors are on a roll having notched up three consecutive wins and that too with big margins . The ease with which they disposed of the mighty Kings XI Punjab and defending champions Mumbai Indians in their last two games will have done a world of good to their confidence . The Sunrisers , on the other hand , suffered big losses against these sides here . The home side has one of the best bowling attacks but has failed to live up to the expectations. Barring Bhuvneshwar Kumar , the Sunrisers have been found wanting in this area. Dale Steyn has not been as effective as he was last year and leggie Amit Mishra looks a lost soul . Up against the in-form opening pair Robin Uthappa and Gautam Gambhir , the Sunrisers will have their task cut out . Uthappa ( 382 runs ) has come into his own ever since he started opening the innings and has lent solidity to the Knight Riders upfront . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunrisers Hyderabad,Shikhar Dhawan,Robin Uthappa,Kolkata Knight Riders,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
