Remarkable Robin Uthappa raises the bar high Amitava Das Gupta Amitava Das Gupta,TNN | May 27 , 2014 , 09.49 AM IST Uthappa is the first KKR batsman to scale the 600-run peak in a single edition of IPL. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED KOLKATA : Five matches into IPL 7 , Robin Uthappa had n't found a fixed slot in KKR 's batting line-up. Shunted around the middle and late middle-order -from No. 4 to 7 - the Karnataka right-hander struggled to get into the groove. Scores of 1 , 55 , 22 , 19 , 0 reflected his state of mind . It was after the first-ball duck batting at No. 7 against Rajasthan Royals that he decided to speak up , asking the team management to be given a chance to open the batting. The request was granted , and the rest is history . In nine matches since he took charge at the top of the order , Uthappa has n't failed even once , notching up four fifties with his lowest score being 40 . This remarkable consistency has taken him to the top of the batting charts with an aggregate of 613 -80 more than the second-placed Glenn Maxwell at the end of the league phase . And significantly , Uthappa has broken new ground by becoming the first KKR batsman to scale the 600-run peak in a single edition of IPL. That , too , in his first season with the purple shirts . In doing so , he surpassed Gautam Gambhir 's tally of 590 in 2012 , but the captain certainly wo n't mind losing that record ! Uthappa may be competitor No. 1 in his bid to earn a Team India recall , but Gambhir knows his new opening partner has played a major role in the team 's progress to Qualifier 1 . But it was n't meant to be like this. KKR had decided to get Uthappa on board envisaging a finisher 's role for him while sticking to the tried and tested Gambhir-Jacques Kallis as the opening pair . The veteran South African got off to a roaring start , smashing 72 in 46 balls to set up a comfortable win in the opener against MI. But two single-digit scores in his next three outings , along with Gambhir 's miserable start and Uthappa 's struggles in the middle-order , paved the way for a change that resulted in a magical turnaround in KKR 's fortunes . Besides his hunger for runs , what has worked wonders for the Knights is Uthappa 's ability to score quickly. A batsman whose flamboyance often bordered on recklessness during the early part of his career , Uthappa has now matured into a sensible strokemaker who does n't go hammer and tongs from the first ball . His 613 runs at a strike rate of 137.44 are in sharp contrast to what the man he displaced as opener ever managed. In three full seasons ( 201113 ) with KKR , Kallis ' best show was in his first year when he scored at 112.16 . For a franchise whose batting was never its strongest suit , Uthappa has clearly come as a breath of fresh air. But the icing on the cake will come only if he can extend his impressive form to the playoffs and help Gambhir lift the trophy at the Chinnaswamy Stadium on Sunday . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Robin Uthappa,Kolkata Knight Riders,Jacques Kallis,Glenn Maxwell,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
