Reflecting on his IPL career so far , Manish Pandey conceded that he lost his way after becoming the first Indian to score a hundred in the tournament in 2009. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED ABU DHABI : On a high after playing a crucial role in Kolkata Knight Riders ' stunning IPL win over defending champions Mumbai Indians , Manish Pandey said reuniting with Jacques Kallis , the veteran with whom he previously played in the Royal Challengers Bangalore team , helped him rediscover some lost form . Pandey 's 64 was Kallis ' 72 were the cornerstones of KKR 's 163-run total , which helped them clinch a 41-run win over the fancied Mumbai . The duo 's 131-run stand was the highlight of the IPL 's opening match . " When I went out there to bat , I remembered the old times when I batted with him and I realised nothing had changed. It was exactly the same batting with Jacques again and I could feel that same comfort level. We had a lot of partnerships together with RCB and we know each other 's games well. We kept talking throughout our time together in the middle , " Pandey said . " The best thing about the partnership was the communication. Right from the very beginning , we decided that we need to stick it out here and build a good partnership because it was n't easy to bat on this wicket initially. So , the plan was cut out very clearly and we executed it to a tee , " he told IPL 's official website . Reflecting on his IPL career so far , Pandey conceded that he lost his way after becoming the first Indian to score a hundred in the tournament in 2009 . " I think I was a bit off the radar. I was n't consistent. I was doing well at the domestic level , in first-class cricket , but I could n't bring that in the IPL. " " Although I played a couple of decent knocks for the Pune franchise , I knew that as a top-order batsman , I had to start converting the starts into big scores consistently. I am glad I have started this tournament with a good knock and I hope to be consistent now , " Pandey said . Asked if that memorable hundred put him under pressure , Pandey replied in the negative . " It was n't the case of putting pressure on myself , to be honest. I think I was n't playing the game I did in the first couple of IPL seasons. I believe I should have put in a little bit more effort , " he said . " People 's expectations had increased from me after that century and I should have tried harder to live up to it. I should have gotten used to it , but I could n't. I will try my best to rise up to that standard again and then live up to it this time , " he added . On playing under Gautam Gambhir 's captaincy , Pandey said he has enjoyed the stint so far . " I spoke to him only a few days after the auction. We were playing against each other at the domestic level and he had a nice chat with me. He made my role in the KKR setup very clear and told me what he expects off me , " he said . " He set goals for me for this season and encouraged me to achieve them without sacrificing on my own style of playing cricket , " he added . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = IPL,Mumbai Indians,Manish Pandey,Jacques Kallis,Kolkata Knight Riders Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
