Rohit guides Mumbai Indians to 141/5 against KKR PTI | May 14 , 2014 , 09.50 PM IST Rohit Sharma struck two sixes and four boundaries to help his team to a modest total after it struggled to force the pace for a major part of the innings at the Barabati Stadium. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED CUTTACK : Skipper Rohit Sharma struck a fine half-century and guided Mumbai Indians to a modest 141 for five in their Indian Premier League match against Kolkata Knight Riders on Wednesday . In his 45-ball 51-run knock , Rohit struck two sixes and four boundaries to help his team to a modest total after it struggled to force the pace for a major part of the innings at the Barabati Stadium . Sunil Narine bowled a very economical final over , conceding just four runs besides dismissing Rohit . Sent into bat , Mumbai Indians lost their openers within the first five overs , with Morne Morkel and Shakib Al Hasan accounting for Chidhambaram Gautam and Lendl Simmons respectively . Struggling against the pace of Morkel , Gautam charged down the track against the lanky pacer but failed to clear cover where Suryakumar Yadav took a good catch . Coming in for Jacques Kallis to strengthen the spin department , Shakib bowled an arm-ball that kept low and disturbed Simmons ' leg stump as the batsman went for a heave. The wicket ensured the Bangladesh left-arm spinner made up for a drop catch in the previous over . After reaching 33 off 27 balls , Rayudu holed out at long-on while trying to force the pace , the successful bowler being Piyush Chawla. He hit 3 fours and a six . It could have become 70 for four but for Yusuf Pathan 's failure to hold on to a sitter at long-on , giving Rohit a life and Morkel a reason to express anguish. To end the over , Rohit got a boundary off a top edge . Corey Anderson broke the shackles with a six and a four off Chawla in the 14th over , the maximum going long and high over the sight screen. It was a productive over for MI as they picked 17 runs off it . Sunil Narine came back to bowl a tight over and peg MI back once again. At the end of the 15th over , Mumbai were struggling to step on the gas at 99 for three . But Rohit soon freed his arms to loft Morkel over long off for a six. Another length ball followed and Rohit effortlessly launched the 146-kmph delivery over extra cover . Having taken a beating , Morkel had something to cheer about as he had Anderson caught at midwicket in what was a soft dismissal . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Shakib Al Hasan,Rohit Sharma,Mumbai Indians,Morne Morkel,Kolkata Knight Riders Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
