Sachin gets the most cheers at Wankhede DUBAI : Heaping praise on Mumbai Indians skipper Rohit Sharma , coach John Wright said that the youngster was " one of most natural captains " and under-estimating him as a leader would be a mistake . " Rohit is one of those guys who just jump into the role and fit into it like a glove , " Wright said . " His tactical decisions have been great , which is very important on the field. But leadership is all about performance , and Rohit has led the team from the front. He has done an outstanding job and I do n't think he should be underestimated , " he added . Wright , however , pointed out that as a defending champions ' skipper , Rohit would face challenges . " He will always be faced with a challenge. This time , he comes in as the defending captain , which is not easy. But his captaincy adds a lot to this team , and what he has contributed to this team should not be undermined. In some of the big games last season , I do n't think he put a foot wrong. I think he 's one of the most natural captains I have ever met , " Wright told the IPL 's official website . Speaking on his team 's composition and their options in the tournament , Wright said , " There 's an air of expectancy. All the teams have a different make-up this time , and from our point of view , we have a core of players from last year as well as some new additions , which is interesting. " On playing the first leg of the tournament in the UAE , Wright said his team was well organised . " Sometimes , combinations are governed by conditions , but that is not the case here. We had a look at the wicket and there was a bit of grass , so it should be a good wicket. Our selection should be very much what we had thought of. We 're pretty well organised , " he said . With departure of the likes of Sachin Tendulkar , Dwayne Smith and Dinesh Karthik , there are huge spots to be filled , but the coach feels that the absence of these players will present the uncapped cricketers such as Aditya Tare and Jalaj Saxena -- a chance to shine . " There is an opportunity there. Some of the big players are not a part of the setup now and we have some young Indian players who have a spot to compete for. Some of the guys are new , while some have been with us for two-three years , and now it is their time . " I think that 's the greatest thing about the IPL -- it creates an opportunity for a virtually unknown player to come in and make a name for themselves. Let 's hope we have the right youngsters who seize that opportunity , " Wright explained . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sachin Tendulkar,Rohit Sharma,Mumbai Indians,John Wright,IPL Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
