Rohit , Pollard power MI to 187/5 against RCB PTI | May 6 , 2014 , 10.21 PM IST Mumbai Indians skipper Rohit Sharma hits a six during an IPL 7 match against Royal Challengers Bangalore in Mumbai on Tuesday. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : Riding on skipper Rohit Sharma 's brilliant half century and Kieron Pollard 's 31-ball 43 , Mumbai Indians posted a competitive 187 for five against Royal Challengers Bangalore in their IPL match on Tuesday . Rohit , who remained unbeaten on a 35-ball 59 , combined with the burly West Indian to forge a 60-ball 97-run partnership for the fifth wicket at the Wankhede Stadium . Rohit 's 68-minute innings yielded three fours and four sixes , while Pollard struck six boundaries . Put into bat , Mumbai started well but lost Aussie opener Ben Dunk ( 15 ) in the first ball of the fourth over. He shared a 25-run stand with wicketkeeper batsman CM Gautam and had struck a couple of fours against Ashoke Dinda before paying the price for a loose shot that was caught by Yuvraj Singh off Harshal Patel . Mumbai looked in control for a while before losing wickets in quick succession. Ambati Rayudu and Gautam added 46 runs off 29 balls for the second wicket before Dinda castled Rayudu in the eighth over . Gautam departed in the next over. He struck three sixes and two fours in his 28-ball 30 . Corey Anderson , who hit a six over long on off leg-spinner Yuzvendra Chahal , perished while attempting the same shot two balls later , reducing the hosts to 84 for four in the tenth over . It was upto skipper Rohit and Pollard to do the repair job. Rohit who got off to a slow start , accelerated and thrashed pacer Varun Aaron in the penultimate over for 24 runs. He carted the bowler for three sixes and a four to bring up his half century . The innings was marred by an ugly mid-field altercation between West Indian all-rounder Kieron Pollard and Australian fast bowler Mitchell Starc in the 17th over of the Mumbai innings . The pacer who had bowled a bouncer earlier , said something to the batsman , who dismissed it with a wave. In the next ball , even though Pollard pulled out of the strike , Starc fired the ball at the batsman , angering the Trinidadian , who appeared to fling the bat at the bowler 's end but , luckily , it slipped out of his hand . Pollard was run out following a misunderstanding in the last over. Royal Challengers Bangalore conceded 48 runs in the last three overs. Dinda was the most profligate and gave away 38 runs in his three overs , while Aaron was expensive as he conceded 41 runs in his four . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Rohit Sharma,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Mumbai Indians,Kieron Pollard,Ambati Rayudu Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
