Royal Challengers Bangalore play for pride against Chennai Super Kings Sunil Subbaiah Sunil Subbaiah,TNN | May 24 , 2014 , 10.43 AM IST With eight defeats in 13 outings , Virat Kohli 's men have never clicked as a unit. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED BANGALORE : Despite a strong line-up , Royal Challengers Bangalore have collectively failed at crucial junctures. As a result , Virat Kohli 's men have not been able to make much of an impact and failed to advance to the Indian Premier League playoffs for the third year in a row . This time , their 30-run defeat against Kolkata Knight Riders on Thursday shattered all hopes of progress . Come Saturday , RCB will look to end their horrid season on a high when they host Chennai Super Kings at the M Chinnaswamy stadium in their last IPL league fixture . With eight defeats in 13 outings , RCB have never clicked as a unit . The main reasons for their patchy run this season are the prolonged back injury of Chris Gayle , slump in Kohli 's form , collective batting failures at decisive games and bowlers ' inability to contain runs during the death overs . RCB 's Rs 14-crore catch Yuvraj Singh , after a series of flops , showed flashes of brilliance scoring back-to-back half-centuries but could do little to change his team 's fortunes in the end. De Villiers produced a series of standout performances with the same result . The moods in the two camps will be very different coming into this game . RCB have nothing to prove and will be playing for pride while CSK will aim to arrest their losing streak and look to establish themselves at the top . With three defeats on the trot - against RCB , KKR and Sunrisers - the Chennai Super Kings suddenly find their campaign wobbling despite being through to the playoffs . Super Kings are second on the points table with 16 points and a victory against RCB on Saturday will consolidate their position among the top two . The problem with Chennai is that their batsmen have n't been consistent , their bowlers have appeared toothless at times and fielders have leaked runs. Overall , the former champions have n't been their formidable selves . RCB bowlers should be wary of West Indian Dwayne Smith , who has been in top form all season. Among Chennai bowlers , pacer Mohit Sharma , who has 18 scalps to his credit , will be the player to watch out for . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Yuvraj Singh,Virat Kohli,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Chris Gayle,Chennai Super Kings Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
