Royals look to put behind controversies against Sunrisers PTI | Apr 17 , 2014 , 02.18 PM IST RR has always given chance to young players despite their lack of experience. While 19-year-old Samson has mesmerized one and all , 42-year-old Pravin Tambe ended up being the match-winner on more than one occasion last season. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED RR player approached to fix IPL game : Report ABU DHABI : One of the worst hit teams in last year 's spot-fixing scandal , Rajasthan Royals will be keen to clear their off-field image with good on-field performances when they begin their IPL campaign by taking on a formidable Sunrisers Hyderabad on Friday . The Royals were left feeling betrayed when errant Indian pacer S Sreesanth and two other teammates -- Ajit Chandila and Ankeet Chavan -- were arrested for allegedly indulging in spot-fixing in at least three IPL matches last season. But they hardly let that hamper their performance on the field . Ironically , RR ended up being the third best team in the last year 's cash-rich event. Led by veteran Rahul Dravid , they dominated the sixth edition , despite lack of big names in their ranks . New captain Shane Watson said the spot-fixing controversy last year was the case of a couple of bad apples in the side , and assured that the team had got over the distraction and was concentrating on giving its best . Under the able guidance of Dravid , who will be seen in mentor 's role this time around , coach Paddy Upton and skipper Watson , the team that is often considered underdog , will be looking at springing up surprises once again . This year , RR have managed to put together a well balanced side. While they picked up players like Steven Smith , Tim Southee , Unmukt Chand and Rajat Bhatia , they managed to retain match-winners such as Watson , Ajinkya Rahane , Stuart Binny , Sanju Samson , James Faulkner and Brad Hodge . Watson has always been a key player for the Royals and the team is expected to excel under his leadership . RR has always given chance to young players despite their lack of experience. While 19-year-old Samson has mesmerized one and all , 42-year-old Pravin Tambe ended up being the match-winner on more than one occasion last season . The Royals will be keen to strike the right balance this time as well . The Sunrisers Hyderabad , who went down to the same opponents -- Rajasthan Royals -- in the Eliminator last season , will be looking to avenge their defeat . The Sunrisers ' fourth finish stunned everyone considering it was their debut season in the last edition . Sunrisers have already showed their brilliance at the auction , where they have bought some talented players to assemble a strong unit . The team boosts of the likes of Shikhar Dhawan , Aaron Finch and David Warner at the top , while there is Darren Sammy down the order along with India youngsters -- Ricky Bhui and Manpreet Juneja . Their bowling will be spearheaded by South Africa 's Dale Steyn along with Bhuvneshwar Kumar , while Amit Mishra and Karan Sharma form a great spin attack in the company of Parveez Rasool . With both teams looking solid on paper , a keen battle is on the cards . Teams ( from ) : Rajasthan Royals : Shane Watson ( c ) , Ajinkya Rahane , James Faulkner , Stuart Binny , Sanju Samson , Brad Hodge , Steven Smith , Abhishek Nayar , Ben Cutting , Kane Richardson , Tim Southee , Unmukt Chand , Ankush Bains , Vikramjeet Malik , Rahul Tewatia , Ankit Sharma , Amit Mishra , Deepak Hooda , Rajat Bhatia , Kevon Cooper , Iqbal Abdulla , Dhawal Kulkarni , Pravin Tambe , Karun Nair , Dishant Yagnik . Sunrisers Hyderabad : Shikhar Dhawan ( c ) , Dale Steyn , David Warner , Darren Sammy , Amit Mishra , Aaron Finch , Irfan Pathan , Ishant Sharma , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Brendan Taylor , Moises Henriques , Venugopal Rao , Jason Holder , S Aniruddha , Manprit Juneja , KL Rahul , Amit Paunikar , Naman Ojha , Ricky Bhui , Ashish Reddy , Chama Milind , Parveez Rasool , Prashanth Parameshwaran , Karn Sharma . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = IPL,Shikhar Dhawan,Shane Watson,Rajat Bhatia,Pravin Tambe Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
