Sachin Tendulkar monitors Mumbai Indians training ahead of IPL 7 opener PTI | Apr 15 , 2014 , 01.24 PM IST Sachin Tendulkar was named as an " MI Icon " recently. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED Sachin gets the most cheers at Wankhede ABU DHABI : The Mumbai Indians players were buoyed by the presence of Sachin Tendulkar , who joined the team 's training session on Tuesday as the high-profile franchise starts its title defence against Kolkata Knight Riders in IPL 7 on Wednesday . The MI players were overjoyed as Tendulkar , who reached Abu Dhabi late Monday night , came in the team 's practise outfit at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium in Abu Dhabi . Having retired from all forms of the game after the Test series against West Indies ended on November 16 last year , Tendulkar seemed to be itching to have a hit in the nets . He has already been named as an " MI Icon " recently and will also do his bit to promote the franchise 's cause of " Education for All " . The legend padded up and had a half-an hour session at the nets during which he was a picture of concentration as if he is going to be a part of the playing XI . He also did his customary knocking facing throwdowns from a member of the support staff . " It was a lesson for the youngsters in the manner Sachin went about his drills. If someone thought that he wanted to hit a few balls for fun , they were mistaken. His drills were just like it used to be before a match , " an MI source said . Tendulkar also keenly watched the Rohit Sharmas and the Kieron Pollards at the net session and was seen talking to chief coach John Wright . The highest scorer of all time in international cricket , will be a part of the team 's think-tank where in he will be providing inputs to coach Wright and skipper Sharma on team combination and strategies . The iconic cricketer had said a few days earlier about how he would want to contribute with his expertise as Mumbai Indians aim to do an encore like Chennai Super Kings did in 2010 , 2011 editions of the cash-rich league . " I have been a part of the Mumbai Indians team since its inception and am delighted to continue my association. This season with Mumbai Indians will be a different experience for me and I look forward to closely interacting with the experienced support staff and sharing my learnings with the exciting youngsters in the team , " he was quoted as saying earlier this week . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sachin Tendulkar,Mumbai Indians,Kolkata Knight Riders,John Wright,IPL Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
