Mumbai Indians beat Rajasthan Royals to qualify for playoffs PTI | May 25 , 2014 , 11.19 PM IST Mumbai Indians ' Corey Anderson celebrates his half century during the IPL 7 match against Rajasthan Royals in Mumbai. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED MUMBAI : ​ Corey Anderson ( 95 not out off 44 balls ) played blinder of an innings to help Mumbai Indians chase down 195/5 in 14.4 overs against Rajasthan Royals and qualify for IPL 7 playoffs on better net run rate . Earlier , Sanju Samson and Karun Nair conjured up responsible knocks under pressure as Rajasthan Royals overcame a slow start to post an imposing 189 for four against Mumbai Indians in their crucial IPL match on Sunday . Samson scored 74 off 47 balls while Nair took 27 balls for his 50-run knock as the two young batsmen shared a 100-run stand in 57 balls after early departure of Shane Watson . Samson , who opened the innings instead of Ajinkya Rahane , hit three sixes and seven fours , while Nair 's knock was studded with two sixes and seven fours . Big-hitting Australians Brad Hodge ( 29 not out ) and James Faulkner ( 23 off 12 balls ) then joined hands in the last five overs to add 49 runs for the fourth wicket . Royals were 59 for one at half-way mark and went on to score 130 runs in the last 10 overs . The tall Faulkner swung Harbhajan Singh for successive sixes over mid wicket and a square cut four in the offie 's final over , 17th of the innings , to take the score past 150 . Faulkner slammed one more six before holing out to Corey Anderson in the deep off Pollard while Hodge remained unbeaten at the other end . Mumbai felt the absence of the injured Praveen Kumar and death-bowling expert Lasith Malinga. Main hope Harbhajan was carted for 43 runs for the wicket of Watson while the others too failed to stop the flow of runs . Asked to bat first , the Royals were kept pegged back by some accurate bowling from Jasprit Bumrah who even bowled a maiden over to Watson . Samson showed aggressive intent from the first ball and hit Corey Anderson for an on-driven four. He then hit Bumrah 's full toss for another four and then slog swept Pragyan Ojha for a six . Watson , kept in check , finally hit a four off the first ball he received from Harbhajan but was caught brilliantly by Kieron Pollard , who ran in and dived to scoop the ball inches off the turf . Royals sprang surprise by sending in Nair instead of Rahane. The newcomer struggled to get going on the slow-paced pitch initially before opening up . Nair slammed his Karnataka Ranji Trophy teammate Shreyas Gopal for a six and two fours on the leg side in the 11th over to perk up the run-rate beyond the 7-run mark . Ojha too was targeted by Nair after his second wicket partner Samson reached his 50 in 36 balls. The left arm slow bowler was hit for six and two fours , including off a switch hit , to help Royals cross the 100 mark in the 13th over . When Harbhajan was brought back to stem the run flow , Nair struck him for a four and a pulled six to reach his 50 off just 26 balls with 7 fours and 2 sixes . He left immediately afterwards , caught at short mid wicket and his partner Samson followed suit in the next over by mis-hitting leg spinner Shreyas to be caught . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sanju Samson,Rajasthan Royals,Mumbai Indians,Karun Nair,IPL 7 Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
