De Kock is yet to hit that one defining knock in the tournament. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : Quinton de Kock is a transformed man this season. Three back-to-back centuries in ODIs often does that to you. In less than a year 's time , the young wicketkeeper-batsman has made himself a fixture in the South African XI . The confidence has percolated to his batting in the IPL too with his new team Delhi Daredevils. The 21-year-old is yet to hit that one defining knock in the tournament but in the form he 's in , it 's not too far away . Excerpts from an exclusive interview.. . This year 's IPL stint seems to be completely different stint for you as compared to last year with Sunrisers Hyderabad.. . It 's definitely been a completely different experience for me. I was pretty unknown when I played for Sunrisers ( Hyderabad ) last year. I did n't have much confidence back then but international success has given me a lot of self-belief . Herschelle Gibbs feels that he sees a lot of himself in your batting. Did you model yourself on Gibbs while growing up ? I loved to watch Herschelle bat when I was young. His batting was so exciting and I think I tried to copy him a little when I was playing in the backyard . How has the team environment been in the Delhi Daredevils ? I feel a lot more relaxed as compared to what I was last year. There are a lot more familiar faces here with guys like Gary Kirsten and Rob Walters around. With so many guys from South Africa , they have more or less made me feel at home . Has coach Gary Kirsten worked on some aspects of your game ? Kirsten has spent a lot of time with me in the nets and suggested a couple of things. They are not big technical changes to my game but small tips which help me play spin a little better . You have looked very comfortable while batting on the Kotla wicket.. . I think it is a very good batting track. We wanted to bat second in our first two matches here and it would have been better if we had won the toss. The track is quite well suited to my game . You and Graeme Smith come from the same school - King Edward VII School in Johannesburg. Was he an inspiration for you growing up ? Smith is from the same school as me and it 's a big cricketing school. There is a lot of great talent in the pipeline there and you 'll see a lot of top-class talent coming through there in the near future. I admire Smith 's leadership skills and it was great to make my Test debut under him. Although I was really nervous on debut , we managed to win the match against Australia . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Quinton de Kock,Herschelle Gibbs,Graeme Smith,Gary Kirsten,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
