Sehwag smashes 72 but KKR restrict Kings XI to 149/8 PTI | May 11 , 2014 , 06.06 PM IST Virender Sehwag has been consistently getting starts and today he got a much deserved half-century. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED CUTTACK : Virender Sehwag showed glimpses of his usual attacking self during his knock of 72 but Kings XI Punjab had a rare batting collapse as they managed a below-par 149 for eight against Kolkata Knight Riders in an IPL match on Sunday . KKR captain Gautam Gambhir 's decision to field was vindicated by his bowlers. While Sehwag 's 50-ball-72 was the highlight of the Kings innings , the failure of the middle-order , once Maxwell was dismissed , became apparent . Gambhir 's decision to include Morne Morkel ( 2/20 ) and Piyush Chawla ( 3/19 ) in the playing XI was justified as they picked five wickets for 49 runs in eight overs between them . Sehwag has been consistently getting starts and today he got a much deserved half-century. His innings had 11 fours and a six off Jacques Kallis . It could n't have been a better start for the Kings XI as the 'Nawab of Najafgarh ' started by blasting Kallis for four boundaries in the first over of the match . A cover drive off the first ball set the tone and it was followed by a clip towards square leg and couple of shots behind the square . Mandeep Singh ( 0 ) tried to slash one off Morkel and gave a simple catch to Robin Uthappa behind stumps . Wriddhiman Saha ( 15 ) joined Sehwag who went about on his boundary spree. He was however dropped on 23 when he pushed hard at a Morkel delivery and the glovesman could n't pouch on to the delivery . Saha hit a couple of boundaries off Yadav before Morkel bowled him with an incutter but there was no stopping Sehwag . There were some streaky edges in between but he did hit some audacious strokes. A straight six off Kallis reminded Sehwag of the old as he completed his 50 off 35 balls . Glenn Maxwell ( 14 ) did n't fire today as he holed out at deep square leg , trying to slog sweep Chawla . Sehwag was finally out when he tried to hoist a Chawla googly which stayed low and hit the off-stump . Once Sehwag was gone , it sparked a sudden collapse as the dangerous David Miller ( 13 ) saw his middle stump uprooted by Yadav. From 87 for two , it suddenly became 120 for five . It got worse when Rishi Dhawan tried to sweep across the line and was bowled in the process . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virender Sehwag,Piyush Chawla,Kolkata Knight Riders,Kings XI Punjab,IPL 7 Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
