Shahrukh Khan adds to Eden jubilation Amitava Das Gupta Amitava Das Gupta,TNN | May 29 , 2014 , 10.45 AM IST Shahrukh Khan was as ecstatic as the players and supporters and hugged Preity Zinta. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED KOLKATA : Kolkata Knight Riders ' passage to the final of IPL 7 was as good as sealed once David Miller was castled by Piyush Chawla in the 13th over . Kings XI Punjab prolonged their agony by batting out the full quota of 20 overs before ultimately losing by 28 runs. But not a soul moved from his seat at the packed Eden Gardens. Not even after Gautam Gambhir and his bunch of invincibles had done a victory lap to thank the 65,000-odd fans . They all waited for the Badshah to make an appearance. And it was n't long before Shahrukh Khan obliged. The co-owner of KKR hugged all the players and then set about going around the stadium , blowing kisses and waving energetically to send the cheering thousands into a frenzy . A sea of silver dots engulfed the stands as the mobile phones worked over time to capture King Khan 'live. ' Busy shooting for his next film , SRK had n't managed to attend any of KKR 's matches this season . This was the last chance at home and he did n't want to miss out , especially after his team had turned their fortunes around by winning an unprecedented eight games on the trot . Khan was as ecstatic as the players and supporters , and did a somersault at the end of his 'walk ' in front of the club house . His entry to the stadium had coincided with a double blow to the KKR innings , with left-arm spinner Akshar Patel sending back Robin Uthappa and Manish Pandey in the space of four balls in the ninth over . As the giant screen caught Shahrukh sitting in the sponsors ' box , murmurs of 'why did he have to come today ' went around the club house . By the end of the innings , though , hope and optimism had driven away the despair . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = shahrukh khan,Robin Uthappa,Preity zinta,Kolkata Knight Riders,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
