Shashank Manohar calls for suspension of IPL , CBI probe of all matches PTI | Mar 26 , 2014 , 07.19 PM IST Manohar 's call came just a day after Supreme Court made stinging observations that Srinivasan should step down to ensure a fair investigation. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : Stating that the " revelation " in the recent IPL fixing scandal could only be the tip of the iceberg , former BCCI president Shashank Manohar on Wednesday called for the suspension of the IPL till a thorough probe by the CBI nails the culprits and the game is cleaned up . Manohar , who was succeeded as BCCI president by N Srinivasan , was also critical of the decision to stage a part of the 2014 IPL in the UAE next month , which he says " will further tarnish the already murky waters surrounding the tournament " . Manohar 's call came just a day after Supreme Court made stinging observations that Srinivasan should step down to ensure a fair investigation to the IPL spot-fixing scandal . " The Supreme Courts observation is that there are very , very serious allegations made in the report and unless the BCCI president steps down , no fair probe can be conducted , " he said . " Considering the latest developments in the BCCI , it is my considered opinion that until the faith of the people in the integrity of the game is restored , the IPL tournament for the year 2014 should be suspended , " Manohar was quoted as saying . " As regards suspending IPL 2014 , the board members should remind themselves that money/profits is neither the aim nor the objective of the board. The primary duty is to promote a clean game of cricket , " he added . He said in view of the serious allegations , regarding betting , spot-fixing and match-fixing , the public at large has lost it 's faith in IPL games . " I had said long back , when the scandal broke , that all IPL matches should be investigated. Only then can all the erring parties be punished and the clean-up initiated. What has been lately revealed could well be the tip of the iceberg. I feel that a thorough probe needs to be done by CBI as the canvas of the activities extends throughout the country , " said Manohar who was the BCCI chief from 2008 to 2011 . " Cricket is the most popular game in India and enjoys a dedicated viewership of millions. This viewership is what generates income and fuels BCCI 's clout on an international level. If the faith of the public is not restored , the BCCI would be failing the public which has catapulted it to being the most influential player on the international scene , " Manohar said . He also voiced concern at the decision of the BCCI to hold the first leg of the IPL in UAE ( after the government refused to provide security due to Lok Sabha elections ) " in view of certain information regarding rampant betting and match-fixing " in that country . South Africa and Bangladesh were also considered as possible venues but the BCCI finally decided to hold the first part of the IPL in the UAE . " Many years back , a conscious decision was taken by the BCCI to abstain from matches in the Middle East in view of certain information regarding rampant betting and match-fixing. As far as I know , that decision has not been revoked. Due to the upcoming Lok Sabha elections , the decision to shift IPL matches to the Middle East will further tarnish the already murky waters surrounding the tournament , " he said . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = IPL,Supreme Court,Shashank Manohar,N Srinivasan,BCCI Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
