Smith , McCullum seal it for Chennai Super Kings K Shriniwas Rao K Shriniwas Rao,TNN | Apr 28 , 2014 , 09.22 AM IST Dwayne Smith and Brendon McCullum ( left ) of the Chennai Super Kings chat during their IPL 7 match against Sunrisers Hyderabad in Sharjah on Sunday. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED SHARJAH : For the excellent show they 've put up here in the UAE so far , the Kings XI Punjab are easily the best of all eight teams so far in the IPL . However , the one factor that sets the Chennai Super Kings apart in this tournament , better than the Kings XI perhaps , is the kind of form their opening pair of Brendon McCullum and Dwayne Smith seem to be enjoying right now . After giving the Super Kings a couple of good starts this season already , McCullum and Smith came up with their second-best effort so far in the tournament , smashing their way to a 85-run opening stand that sunk the Sunrisers at the Sharjah Cricket Ground on Sunday. While it was left to MS Dhoni eventually to complete the chase , the stage was set by these two foreign imports . Chasing 145 for victory , Smith came across as the more aggressive of the two , coming up with five sixes and four fours in his 66. Mc-Cullum hit two sixes and three fours in his 40 and the two batsmen were enough to set the ball rolling for the Super Kings . With 60 runs left to score by the time these two batsmen left , it was only a formality for Super Kings though they lost a couple of unnecessary wickets towards the end of the chase . Earlier in the evening , the Sunrisers won the toss and elected to bat first , not bothering to take any cue from the earlier match of the day between Delhi Daredevils and Mumbai Indians , where the latter batted first and came apart . Shikhar Dhawan looked good in the nine balls he faced. However , a pull off Ben Hilfenhaus saw him hit it straight into the hands of the fielder at mid-wicket . The onus was back on Aaron Finch and David Warner to deliver , the anchors of the 128-run partnership in Sunrisers ' previous game that had helped them win their first match of the season . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Dwayne Smith,David Warner,Chennai Super Kings,Brendon McCullum,Sunrisers Hyderabad Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
