Smith , Raina help Chennai Super Kings tame Delhi Daredevils Devadyuti Das Devadyuti Das,TNN | May 6 , 2014 , 10.12 AM IST Chennai Super Kings ' Dwayne Smith bats against Delhi Daredevils during their IPL match at Ferozeshah Kotla in New Delhi. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : Chennai Super Kings were facing two opponents on Monday night - Delhi Daredevils and Mother Nature. Chasing a tough target of 179 at the Ferozeshah Kotla , IPL 7 table toppers had to keep one eye on the Duckworth & Lewis par score every over due to a steady drizzle from around the 12th over of their innings . They had the perfect man for the task in the middle - Dwayne Smith ( 79 , 51b , 4x4 , 8x6 ) - who according to his own coach Stephen Fleming is a great 'reader ' of a cricket match . The West Indian opener powered to his fourth fifty of the season with a knock studded with eight massive sixes on the small Kotla ground to set up an eight-wicket win - CSK 's sixth on the trot - with skipper MS Dhoni smashing a six and four in the final over . Smith looked completely unflustered during the chase , cruising to his fifty off 38 balls with two fours and six sixes - three of them in the same over off left-arm seamer Jaydev Unadkat. CSK also benefitted from another fine start by openers Smith and Brendon McCullum ( 32 , 35b , 5x4 ) with the pair putting on 82 . Although the asking rate was touching 11 an over by the time Suresh Raina walked into the middle , there was n't a hint of concern. Raina and Smith raised 50 of their second-wicket stand in just 26 balls - not only keeping up with the D&L par score but also the required run-rate. Smith almost settled the game in the 18th over itself when he smashed 4 , 6 , 4 off Mohammad Shami 's last three balls . Earlier , poor luck dogged the Daredevils through their entire innings again but a late onslaught by JP Duminy and Kedar Jadhav carried them to 178/5. Just when the side looked like getting on top , by some quirk of fate , CSK snatched back the initiative with a couple of wickets . Duminy ( 28 n.o. , 17b , 5x4 ) and Jadhav ( 29 n.o. , 18b , 2x4 , 2x6 ) managed to prop up the Devils , much like they had done against the Rajasthan Royals in the last match on Saturday. The duo put on 58 runs in just 34 balls for the sixth wicket . For a while , Tamil was the flavour at the Kotla as Dinesh Karthik ( 51 , 36b , 4x4 , 3x6 ) and opener Murali Vijay ( 35 , 30b , 2x4 , 1x6 ) tore into the Super Kings attack . The third-wicket partnership between the duo yielded 71 runs off just 50 balls after Delhi were left battling at 37 for 2. Daredevils ' Rs 12.5 crore buy Karthik finally showed his worth with a sizzling display . If Karthik had carried on for a few more over , a total of close to 200 was on the cards but the TN stumper was dismissed the very next ball after reaching his fifty . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Suresh Raina,Mohammad Shami,Dwayne Smith,Delhi Daredevils,Chennai Super Kings Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
