Sports ministry questions BCCI 's choice of UAE for IPL 7 V Narayan Swamy V Narayan Swamy,TNN | Apr 5 , 2014 , 05.39 AM IST The BCCI has time until April 10 to reply to other queries . RELATED BANGALORE : The Union sports ministry has given its clearance to this year 's Indian Premier League but not without questioning the choice of UAE as the venue for the first phase of the tournament . Replying to BCCI 's March 20 requisition seeking its green signal , the ministry told BCCI 's chief administrative officer Ratnakar Shetty that it had " no objection from sports angle " to the conduct of the event provided the ministries of home affairs and external affairs cleared it . At the same time , it asked BCCI to explain why it chose a 'non-regular venue ' for holding a few IPL matches when BCCI had the option of selecting a place " which is on the regular international calendar of ICC " . Sources told TOI the ministry was apprehensive of the venues - Abu Dhabi , Sharjah and Dubai - as they were known havens of illegal betting syndicates. " The government banned the Indian cricket team from playing in Sharjah , Toronto and Singapore from 2001 onwards , only because of the problem of match-fixing and betting. But BCCI has chosen UAE again. We would like to know from them the reasons why that country was given precedence , " the sources said . The BCCI has time until April 10 to reply to other queries. While emphasising that the responsibility to deal with betting and match-fixing in IPL will rest with BCCI , the ministry has sought details on the mechanisms in place to prevent illegal activity . THE POSERS 1. Why a non-regular venue has been selected for holding some matches of IPL 2014 instead of choosing a venue which is on the regular international calendar of the ICC ? 2. What mechanisms have BCCI put in place to ensure that unethical practices like betting and match-fixing , etc. do not take place during IPL 2014 ? 3. The amount of license fees paid to ICC for IPL 2014 ? 4. BCCI is required to contribute towards National Sports Development Fund ( NSDF ) . The amount of contribution to NSDF may please be specified which may be based on either the percentage of profit from IPL 2014 or consolidated lumpsum . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sports Ministry,IPL,United Arab Emirates,Ratnakar Shetty,BCCI Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
