Sunrisers beat Daredevils by 8 wickets via D/L method IANS | May 10 , 2014 , 08.58 PM IST Sunrisers Hyderabad 's Amit Mishra in action against the Delhi Daredevils during their IPL 7 match at the Ferozeshah Kotla stadium in New Delhi on Saturday. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : Sunrisers Hyderabad beat Delhi Daredevils by eight wickets via the D/L method in a rain-marred Indian Premier League ( IPL ) match at the Ferozeshah Kotla on Saturday . Delhi 's fourth consecutive loss means they are all but out of contention for the play-off spot while the win took Hyderabad ( eight points ) to fourth in the table , two points ahead of Kolkata Knight Riders in fifth . After restricting the Daredevils to 143 for seven in 20 overs , the Sunrisers ' innings was blighted by rain interruptions . Their target was cut to 117 in 15 overs under the D/L method , when light showers stopped play for the second time in the match . The target was further revised to 97 in 12 overs after rain interrupted proceedings for the third time . Sunrisers were 11 for one in 1.1 overs when the skies opened . At 17 for one in two overs , the rain once again came , interrupting the game for the fourth time . Under the final revised target , Sunrisers needed 43 from five overs and they scored 44 for two in 4.2 overs . Sunrisers captain Shikhar Dhawan ( 4 ) went early , leaving the onus on Australian duo David Warner ( 12 not out ) and Aaron Finch . Finch ( 4 ) was castled by Rahul Shukla , giving Delhi a ray of hope. But a streaky Warner boundary and two sixes from Naman Ojha ( 13 not out ) took Sunrisers over the line with four balls to spare . Earlier , put into bat , Delhi changed things around with their top order , dropping Murali Vijay but that seem to have no effect on South African batsman Quinton de Kock ( 7 ) , who once again failed . Skipper Kevin Pietersen , who promoted himself to opening the batting , struggled early on but Karn Sharma 's fifth over paved way for the Englishman to return to his blistering self . The former England captain smashed the leg spinner for 14 runs and then added to Sunriser 's woes by plundering Moises Henriques for 15 runs in the very next over . However , Amit Mishra put an end to Pietersen 's marauding innings , picking up his 100th wicket in the IPL . Delhi were motoring at 103 for three in 13.1 overs before the rain gods came crashing down . The hosts seemed to lose all momentum after returning. They were 121 for three in the 15th over and managed just 22 runs in the last five , losing four wickets . Pace duo Dale Steyn and Moises Henriques and leggie Amit Mishra claimed two wickets each , while India international Bhuvneshwar Kumar chipped in with one . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunrisers Hyderabad,Shikhar Dhawan,Delhi Daredevils,David Warner,Amit Mishra Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
