Sunrisers Hyderabad end home leg on a winning note Solomon S Kumar Solomon S Kumar,TNN | May 21 , 2014 , 09.40 AM IST Dhawan notched up his maiden half-century in IPL 7 off 39 balls with seven fours and a six. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED HYDERABAD : " Play only for respect , " says a huge hoarding in the city which features the Sunrisers Hyderabad . On Tuesday , the hosts restored some of their lost pride by giving the full house at the RGIC Stadium something to cheer for as they eked out a seven-wicket win over Royal Challengers Bangalore . While the Sunrisers ended their home leg on a winning note after three straight losses , Bangalore 's chances of making it to the playoffs suffered a major setback . Set 161 for victory , the Sunrisers sent David Warner to open the innings with Shikhar Dhawan and the move paid off richly as the duo added 100 for the first wicket . In 12.2 overs that they were together , the southpaws toyed with the rival attack. Dhawan was off the block quickly with his trademark cover drive off Muttiah Muralitharan 's fourth ball. That set the tone for the reply as Dhawan and Warner gave no respite for the rival side . Dhawan notched up his maiden half-century off 39 balls with seven fours and a six. The Delhi lad , however , fell when he responded to Warner 's call for a quick single and was caught short by Yuvraj Singh 's throw to 'keeper Parthiv Patel . Warner , who has been Sunrisers ' best batsman by a distance , took his season 's tally to an impressive 434 . The Australian , who got his fifth half-century of the season , finally fell to a Varun Aaron full toss for 59 ( 46b , 3x4 , 4x6 ) . Naman Ojha got 24 off 20 ( 2x6 ) but Sunrisers still needed 11 off eight balls. Skipper Darren Sammy hit Aaron for a six and killed the contest . Earlier , RCB , who choose to bat first , got off to a poor start as Orange cap holder Bhuvneshwar Kumar trapped Parthiv Patel ( 4 ) leg before with the fifth ball of the innings . With Dale Steyn breathing fire , the visitors found it hard to get runs. The first four overs yielded a modest 25 runs and skipper Sammy brought on offie Parvez Rasool . The Jammu & Kashmir all-rounder , who played his first game of the season , troubled Chris Gayle and that paved the way for the West Indian 's demise. Gayle tried to heave leggie Karn Sharma 's first ball over the leg side and the edge landed into the hands of Rasool at short thirdman . THE PLAYOFF EQUATION After Tuesday 's matches , there is a clear demarcation between the top 4 and bottom 4 teams. The equation now is : Kings XI ( 18 pts from 11 ) have already qualified for the last four Chennai ( 16 from 12 ) have also qualified despite losing to KKR since RCB lost to SRH . Both Kolkata ( 14 from 12 ) and Rajasthan ( 14 from 12 ) have excellent chances of making it as the third and fourth teams. They will be secure with one win each in the home stretch Bangalore ( 10 from 12 ) and Hyderabad ( 10 from 12 ) have only slim mathematical chances Daredevils ( 4 from 12 ) are out of the fray. Defending champions Mumbai ( 8 from 11 ) are more or less out too . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunrisers Hyderabad,Shikhar Dhawan,Royal Challengers Bangalore,David Warner,Chris Gayle Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
