Sunrisers Hyderabad fail to rise against Kolkata Knight Riders Solomon S Kumar Solomon S Kumar,TNN | May 19 , 2014 , 10.04 AM IST The big-hitting Pathan ensured two points for his side. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED HYDERABAD : Desperate times call for desperate measures. With Royal Challengers Bangalore notching up a win against Chennai Super Kings in Ranchi earlier in the day , Sunrisers Hyderabad needed to take some drastic steps . The team management dropped Moises Henriques and brought in former West Indian skipper Darren Sammy and placed on his broad shoulders the onerous responsibility of leading the side out of the mess it was in . But the move failed to bring any luck to the beleaguered side as they crashed to a third consecutive loss at home. The hosts were handed out a seven-wicket thrashing by Kolkata Knight Riders at the RGIC Stadium , on Sunday night . Chasing 143 for victory , the Knight Riders suffered a quick jolt as skipper Gautam Gambhir ( 6 , 10b ) was adjudged caught behind by Naman Ojha off Dale Steyn , a decision the batsman did not take kindly to . But Knight Riders had their share of luck too as Shikhar Dhawan , captain till the last match , dropped Robin Uthappa off Steyn when he was on 9 and the opener responded with a six over square-leg . Uthappa and fellow Karnataka teammate Manish Pandey took the fight to the rival camp as they added 51 for the second wicket. When it looked that Knight Riders were running away with the game , Sammy ran out Uthappa ( 40 ; 33b , 5x4 , 1x6 ) to inject life into the game . However , Pandey was in no mood to let go off the advantage. He smashed two fours and a six off the out-of-form leggie Amit Mishra 's third over - the 12th of the innings to virtually kill the contest . He and Yusuf Pathan added 45 for the third wicket before Pandey ( 35 ; 32b , 3x4 , 1x6 ) fell to leggie Karn Sharma . The big-hitting Pathan ( 39 ; 28b , 2x4 , 2x6 ) and Ryan ten Doeschate ( 25 ; 15b , 2x4 , 1x6 ) ensured two points for their side with an unbroken 42-run stand for the fourth wicket . Earlier , the Sunrisers ' batsmen failed to respond to Sammy 's decision to bat first. After a quick start , the Sunrisers were throttled by the Kolkata spinners and could only post a modest 142/8 . Set free from captaincy , Dhawan played with gay abandon and unleashed some of his trademark cover drives which sent the Knight Riders scurrying for cover . Though Hyderabad lost Aaron Finch ( 8 ) quite early , Dhawan raced to 19 off 14 balls with four boundaries but fell while trying to take on mystery spinner Sunil Narine . Naman Ojha , who made an unbeaten 79 in the last game , scored 22 ( 24b ; 1x4 , 2x6 ) before being snared by Yusuf Pathan off left-arm spinner Shakib Al Hasan . It was then left to Sunrisers ' most consistent batsman David Warner ( 34 off 18 balls ) and the Australian showed no sign of drain out as he went after the Knight Riders. With Lokesh Rahul giving him good company , the duo raised 34 . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Yusuf Pathan,Sunrisers Hyderabad,Shikhar Dhawan,Kolkata Knight Riders,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
