Sunrisers Hyderabad get 'Mad Max ' treatment K Shriniwas Rao K Shriniwas Rao,TNN | Apr 23 , 2014 , 09.54 AM IST Maxwell belted nine sixes and five fours to leave the Sunrisers in a state of despair. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED SHARJAH : The Kings XI Punjab juggernaut continues to roll. Merciless as a Twenty20 unit can get , they had bulldozed opponents in their two matches of the IPL 's seventh edition and on Tuesday , they kept that thundering momentum going . This time , the team at the receiving end was Sunrisers Hyderabad who lost by 72 runs , chasing a target of 194. Led by Shikhar Dhawan , who was listless himself , the team won the toss and elected to field first , their strategy probably being to deny Punjab the opportunity to chase once again . The Kings XI had chased in their previous two matches , against Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals both hefty targets - and won big. On Tuesday though , Sunrisers ' decision to make Punjab bat first saved them no blushes whatsoever . Glenn Maxwell , was once again at the helm of affairs for Punjab , smashing another huge knock of 95 runs that allowed them to set up a total of 193 runs for the loss of six wickets. Maxwell walked in at No. 3 after the opening duo of Virender Sehwag and Cheteshwar Pujara had added 51 runs for the first wicket. From there on , the Aussie made the evening here in Sharjah his own , belting nine sixes and five fours to leave the Sunrisers in a state of despair . This was no blind hitting. The Sunrisers can boast of one of the better attacks in this edition of the IPL but the likes of Dale Steyn , Amit Mishra , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Irfan Pathan and Darren Sammy ran into the one-man army who 's come close to hitting a century thrice now in three matches . In the first game , Maxwell missed his hundred by five runs , like he did again on Tuesday. In the last game , he scored 89 against the Royals , missing the landmark by 11 runs. On all three occasions , Maxwell was dropped , underlining that luck has been on his side too . In reply , the Sunrisers began on a disastrous note and ended with one. The pressure of a target that required them to score at 9.65 runs per over right from the word go , loss of Dhawan early in the innings set them back further . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virender Sehwag,Sunrisers Hyderabad,Shikhar Dhawan,Kings XI Punjab,Glenn Maxwell Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
