Sunrisers Hyderabad inflict fifth consecutive defeat on Mumbai Indians K Shriniwas Rao K Shriniwas Rao,TNN | May 1 , 2014 , 09.34 AM IST Sunrisers Hyderabad 's Bhuvneshwar Kumar celebrates the wicket of Mumbai Indians captain Rohit Sharma during their IPL 7 match in Dubai. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED DUBAI : Unless curiosity has got the better of the Mumbai Indians batsmen , in wanting to know how it feels to hit a six and get cheered by a capacity crowd with music blasting from the loudspeakers , there 's no reason to explain any kind of logic in the manner in which they went about chasing their target on Wednesday . The Sunrisers , who had posted 172 batting first , were watching their attack being taken to the cleaners by MI all-rounder Kieron Pollard. Any cricketer with an idea of how the game was progressing would 've simply stood at the other end of the wicket at all possible times to give Pollard the strike . But not those from Mumbai Indians. Aditya Tare , Harbhajan Singh and CM Gautam -three lower middle-order batsmen - who joined Pollard out in the middle after the Trinidadian had brought MI back in the game with Ambati Rayudu , decided to showcase their own strokeplay and in the process led to their team 's downfall . Up against the Sunrisers Hyderabad at the Dubai Cricket Stadium here , the Mumbai Indians lost their fifth consecutive match of the IPL , this one by 15 runs. They will return home absolutely winless . Pollard 's 78 off 48 balls with six sixes ad three fours remained the most impressive knock of the evening , better than what David Warner had accomplished in setting the target for Hyderabad. The best of their bowlers were taken to the cleaners as Pollard looked threatening enough to single-handedly take the game away . Earlier in the evening , Mumbai Indians won the toss and put the Sunrisers in to bat first , preferring to chase than set a target that has n't worked well for them a few times in this tournament already . Hyderabad started well , Aaron Finch and Dhawan raising hopes of a good start only the second time in five matches so far here in the UAE. The last time they did it , Sunrisers beat Delhi Daredevils at the same venue by four runs . However , on Wednesday , a repeat was n't happening. Dhawan left for 6 and Finch for 16 , the Sunrisers at 38 by the time the second wicket fell , and it looked like the Mumbai Indians were in with a chance to restrict them to a minimal . However , Warner , who dropped himself from No. 4 to five , along with young Karnataka batsman KL Rahul who preceded him , had other plans. From 38-2 , the duo took the Sunrisers to 149-3 , a 111-run partnership securing the team 's target before the other middle-order batsmen eventually stretched the total to 172-5 . Warner seemed at his blistering best , unforgiving with his aggression as he struck four sixes and one four in his 65 off 51 balls. It was the best from the Sunrisers , Rahul complimenting that aggression with a 40-ball 46 . For MI , Harbhajan Singh bowled an outstanding spell to keep the Hyderabad batsmen in check , giving 16 runs in four overs but went wicketless. At the helm of the attack it was Zaheer Khan who ended up with a two-wicket haul for 26 runs in four overs . STORY OF THE MATCH TURNING POINT With Kieron Pollard going great guns on 76 and Mumbai Indians needing 31 in three overs , it looked as if the West Indian all-rounder had swung the game in the favour of the defending champions. However , Dale Steyn bowled a great 18th over which produced just four runs to get SRH back . 162.50 : Pollard 's Strike Rate : The West Indian all-rounder had endured a quiet time so far , but on Wednesday , he found his range and timing to belt 78 off 48 balls to almost pull it off for MI . 14.33 : Ojha 's Economy Rate : The left-arm spinner has n't been at his best this season and he was once again taken to the cleaners. Warner was particularly severe on him hitting him to the short leg side boundary . TALKING POINT Reputations are counting for little this IPL. After four rather poor outings , Aussie veteran Mike Hussey was given the boot by the MI think tank. Ben Dunk , the Aussie who had a great Big Bash for Queensland Bulls was picked. However , he too could n't do much . It was good to see Shikhar and the coaches show a bit of faith in me to bat in the middle. KL Rahul also did a good job in our partnership. He was the one who was keeping me calm. I did well for Delhi last year. It 's good to score for the new team - David Warner , SRH . It was n't an ideal birthday present for me. We spoke about trying to get early wickets and in the last five overs a big score was on the cards. We 've got to win all the games from here on. Let 's see what we can do at home. We have to stay positive - Rohit Sharma , MI skipper . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Zaheer Khan,Sunrisers Hyderabad,Rohit Sharma,Mumbai Indians,Kieron Pollard Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
