Sunrisers ' campaign has virtually come to an end in IPL 7. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED HYDERABAD : " It is not over. We have to win all three ( matches ) and hope some results go in our favour , " said Sunrisers Hyderabad skipper Darren Sammy after his side 's seven-wicket loss to Kolkata Knight Riders on Sunday night . Despite the brave front put up by him , the Sunrisers are aware that their campaign has virtually come to an end and only pride should drive them in the next few games. The season began with a lot of promise which , however , has largely remained unfulfilled . Though Sunrisers bagged big hitters in Aaron Finch and David Warner , who have done well at the top of the order , they were unable to find strong finishers . Once the top four went , the Sunrisers have struggled to post or chase big totals. Lokesh Rahul has been found wanting and all-rounder Irfan Pathan is a pale shadow of his former self . The left-handed batsman has been unable to justify his place in the side but the team management has continued to repose their faith in him. Is it because they do n't have enough bench strength ? With Sammy too not contributing his mite to the team 's cause , Sunrisers are left with a long tail . They have sorely missed the presence of Sri Lankan all-rounder Thisara Perera , who had played a key role in last year 's successful campaign . The Sunrisers ' bowling too has not lived up to potential and this has helped their rivals get away even in tight situations . While Sunrisers have lost out in the race , the Royal Challengers Bangalore are gearing up for a final push and hope to make it to the playoffs. The Royal Challengers are in fifth spot with 10 points , while the Knight Riders are two points ahead . With both teams having three matches to play , the odds are in favour of the Knight Riders to claim the fourth spot. However , the Bangalore side , which has been inconsistent thus far , showed on Sunday that they have the wherewithal to put it across the big guns . The win over Chennai Super Kings has put them in a good frame of mind and it remains to be seen if they can carry on the momentum . A win on Tuesday afternoon against the Sunrisers at the RGIC Stadium is what the doctor has prescribed for the Royal Challengers . AB de Villiers had taken apart the Sunrisers ' spearhead Dale Steyn at home and an intriguing contest is on hands as the two countrymates shape up for yet another clash . With Yuvraj Singh too back in roaring form , Bangalore are looking quite a formidable batting unit. If Chris Gayle and Virat Kohli too decide to join the party one can expect a lot of fireworks as the track is a batting paradise . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Yuvraj Singh,Virat Kohli,Sunrisers Hyderabad,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Darren Sammy Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
