Sunrisers Hyderabad seek home comfort against Mumbai Indians JAC Gladson JAC Gladson,TNN | May 12 , 2014 , 09.30 AM IST Unsettled Mumbai Indians face another stiff challenge away from home. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED HYDERABAD : With five different sets of opening batsmen in eight games , the Mumbai Indians wear an unsettled look. The results , too , have not been encouraging for the defending champions , whose highest opening stand thus far is 25 , and they face another stiff task when they run into a resurgent Sunrisers Hyderabad on Monday . Their fans at the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium will be eager to see them in action for the first time at home in IPL 7 on Monday after the wonderful impression the Sunrisers had made in their debut season last year . Both teams started their campaign on a losing note but while the Sunrisers woke up to the task and backed themselves to revive their campaign with a convincing win over Rajasthan Royals after the AB de Villiers-caused heartbreak in Bangalore , Mumbai Indians have continued to find the going tough . While the Sunrisers headed home for their next four games upbeat after knocking Delhi Daredevils out of contention for the playoffs following their eight-wicket win in a rain-hit match in Delhi on Saturday , Mumbai Indians headed south downcast after Chennai Super Kings handed them their first defeat at home since 2012 , also on Saturday . It may not be as formidable a home run as Mumbai Indians ' 10-game streak at the Wankhede Stadium before the Saturday drubbing by CSK , but the Sunrisers too boast of an excellent record at home , where they have stifled the best of big hitters through a combination of searing pace and quality spin bowling . They have now added a new weapon to the armoury in Bhuvneshwar Kumar , who has 'swung ' games beautifully for the Sunrisers this season , and with 15 sticks in his kitty , has acquitted himself rather well in his role as Dale Steyn 's partner . The one over when AB de Villiers took him apart notwithstanding , Steyn 's still the go-to man for his skipper Shikhar Dhawan , and leaving out Amit Mishra for the game against Bangalore had the desired effect as the leg-spinner returned to his good , old ways and put the choke on Rajasthan Royals in Motera . All of them will have to be on top of their game against Mumbai Indians , down at No.7 in the table with four points , but not short on class . The likes of Rohit Sharma , Ambati Rayudu and Kieron Pollard have good memories of this venue ; Praveen Kumar , Lasith Malinga and Harbhajan Singh are no less dangerous . The Sunrisers have the wood on MI courtesy their 15-run win in Dubai , and with a tally of eight points , the hosts will be well served if Dhawan , Aaron Finch and David Warner fire with an eye on the net run-rate , especially with the region experiencing unseasonal rain . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunrisers Hyderabad,Shikhar Dhawan,Rohit Sharma,Mumbai Indians,Kieron Pollard Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
