Sunrisers spoil KP 's return as Daredevils lose by 4 runs K Shriniwas Rao K Shriniwas Rao,TNN | Apr 26 , 2014 , 09.16 AM IST Dale Steyn of the Sunrisers Hyderabad reacts after dismissal of Delhi Daredevils captain Kevin Pietersen ( unseen ) during their IPL 7 match in Dubai on Friday. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED DUBAI : South African pacer Dale Steyn 's tweet on Thursday read : 'Starting to question whether I 'm a cricketer or a model here at the IPL'. It came in the backdrop of continuous photo shoots the cricketer has had to attend since landing here in the UAE . On Friday , he 'd have figured why he 's so popular wherever he goes and probably understood there 's no point complaining . With two balls - which produced the wickets of Dinesh Karthik and Kevin Pietersen - the express pacer changed the complexion of the game. Within minutes , a possibly good chase had gone awry for Delhi Daredevils . Sunrisers Hyderabad thus won their first points of the tournament , defeating last year 's laggards at the Dubai Cricket Stadium by four runs . Hyderabad , a team that bought impressive bowlers at the players ' auction , had been struggling so far in the tournament simply because their batting lineup had failed to click. On Friday though , it all changed with Aaron Finch , the stocky big-hitter from Australia , finding form . Finch found an able ally in the aggressive David Warner and the two batsmen took the wind out of the Daredevils sail with a 128-run stand for the second wicket . Finch ( 88 ) was the leading performer with the bat. He was first involved in a 56-run opening stand with skipper Shikhar Dhawan and then batting with Warner ( 58 ) , he helped his team set a 185-run target for the Daredevils . Warner , though , was lucky to be reprieved twice by Manoj Tiwary. The Bengal batsman dropped the southpaw before he could get off the mark at point and he let him off on 39 in the deep too . In reply , the Daredevils began impressively. They got off to their best start in the tournament. Openers Murali Vijay and Quinton de Kock batted exceptionally well to add 99 for the first wicket . Vijay ( 52 ) reached his half century while de Kock ( 48 ) fell short of it by two runs and by the time the two left , the Daredevils were left needing 85 runs from 8.4 overs . That is where the middle-order momentum was lost. Wicketkeeper-batsman Dinesh Karthik , who had been the stand-in skipper for Delhi in the first three games , joined skipper Kevin Pietersen , who made a comeback after missing the first three games due to a finger injury . The duo added 36 for the third wicket but struggled to push the scoring in the initial phase of their alliance . However , they were looking to cut loose when Steyn walked in to bowl his third over. The pacer had given away just 15 runs in two overs until then , but no wickets had come his way . In the third over though , he plucked the two big wickets of KP and Karthik and that was that . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Dale Steyn,Sunrisers Hyderabad,Murali Vijay,Kevin Pietersen,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
