Virat Kohli , who came into the IPL following a remarkable outing at the ICC World T20 where he emerged as the top scorer with 319 runs , has mustered only 154 runs for RCB. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED BANGALORE : Virat Kohli might be going through a slump in batting form but the Royal Challengers Bangalore skipper said his focus was on team success rather than individual brilliance . " I 'm not worried about my performance as long as the team is winning , " said Kohli after RCB 's 16-run win over Delhi Daredevils on Tuesday night . Kohli , who came into the IPL following a remarkable outing at the ICC World T20 in Bangladesh where he emerged as the top scorer with 319 runs , has mustered only 154 runs for RCB . " I know guys are stepping up and that obviously gives you a bit of a cushion. I believe in my abilities and I need just one good game to get back to form. " " In a tournament like the IPL it is very difficult to get out of a rut. I am still hitting the ball well " said Kohli , whose top score this IPL season is an unbeaten 49 against Daredevils in Sharjah . " I 've got out in every possible way except hit-wicket , " he added . Asked whether the pressure of captaincy was affecting his performance , Kohli said : " I was captain last year too , when I made big runs. So that 's not the case. " Besides his form , Kohli had to deal with criticism following Yuvraj Singh 's failures with the bat. On Tuesday Kohli was a pleased man having watched Yuvraj pulverize the Delhi Daredevils bowlers to help the team win and stay on course for a playoff berth . " I 'm glad that someone like Yuvraj Singh has delivered after a lot of people had written him off , which I think should never happen to any cricketer. We have to respect what a world class player he has been for India. He has won us two World Cups single-handedly and it 's all about respecting that person who has served the country for so long , " he said . Following a series of flops , Yuvraj scored a 38-ball 83 against Rajasthan but his pyrotechnics went in vain as the visitors pulled off a stunning five-wicket win. " I am really glad to see him stepping up at crucial times , even the last game which we lost unfortunately. I am really happy that guys are picking themselves up. Now we are looking to take one game at a time , " he added . Kohli said the RCB pace trio of Albie Morkel , Varun Aaron and Ashok Dinda were rested for the Delhi game to help them recover from the hammering. " We wanted to give them some mental rest after that game against RR. It is very hard to come back within 48 hours from a game like that , " he said . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Yuvraj Singh,Virat Kohli,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Ashok Dinda,Varun Aaron Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
