Sachin gets the most cheers at Wankhede MUMBAI : Sachin Tendulkar will be " sick of me " by the end of IPL-7 says Michael Hussey , who plans to talk about the game and life after international retirement with the iconic cricketer during his stint with Mumbai Indians over the next month and a half . " I hope so. I am really looking forward to spending time with him and talking about life and cricket. He will probably be sick of me by the end of the IPL , " Hussey said when asked if he will be exchanging thoughts with the recently-retired Tendulkar . The 40-year-old Tendulkar , who was part of MI 's triumphant campaign in the last edition , has been appointed the side 's mentor ahead of the upcoming extravaganza starting tomorrow in Abu Dhabi . Hussey , who had been part of many a remarkable wins with the Chennai Super Kings , will don the blue jersey this time around . " It will be different but I am excited by the challenge of joining a team that I have admired and respected over the six years , " Hussey was quoted as saying by IPL 's official website . The retired Australian great is excited at the prospect of playing at the Wankhede Stadium , which he feels has the " best atmosphere I have ever experienced " . Asked about the rivalry between Mumbai Indians and Chennai Super Kings and if it will take a bit of work to adjust , he said , " I do n't think so. I have had some great battles with Mumbai Indians over the years and look forward to many great battles with CSK over the next few years. " Talking about maintaining high level of fitness , he said , " I have still been able to work hard on my fitness and strength and I am still playing in the Big Bash in Australia. I may be a little rusty early in the tournament but I think I wo n't take long to get up to the required level. " Asked if he suffered from withdrawal symptoms after retirement form international cricket , the 38-year-old responded in negative . " No , quite the opposite actually. I do n't miss the stress , pressure , expectation and media attention. T20 is fun and easier on the body as you get older. " http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sachin Tendulkar,Mumbai Indians,Michael Hussey,IPL,Chennai Super Kings Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
