The stupor cricketing stars in IPL 7 TNN | May 17 , 2014 , 09.38 AM IST Chris Gayle has played six matches and has hit just nine sixes. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED As the Indian Premier League heads for an exciting climax , a look at the big-ticket players who have failed to live up to the hype : Chris Gayle ( RCB ) : The Jamaican big-hitter had sizzled for RCB after he had smoked a record 51 sixes to accumulate 708 runs last season. This year , however , a hamstring injury and poor form has restrained him. He has played six matches and has hit just nine sixes . Jacques Kallis ( KKR ) : In the early half of his career , Jacques Kallis ' South African teammates had named him 'Dozy ' for his dream like , 'not here right now ' attitude on the field. The legendary all-rounder seems to have gone into a snooze cruise this season. Kallis is 33rd on the list of run-getters and ranked 38 in the wicket-takers ' chart . Virat Kohli ( RCB ) : For those accustomed to see Virat Kohli score prolifically for India , will be shocked to know that he 's still to get a fifty. What 's worse he 's got three ducks this season. All the hard work for India must have left him jaded , but there 's some merit in the talk that captaincy has chained him up . Dinesh Karthik ( DD ) : For a team that was built from scratch , the folks at Delhi Daredevils must be scratching their heads for the astronomical sum ( Rs 12 crore ) they paid for Dinesh Karthik. The man from Tamil Nadu has n't lived up to his team 's and fans ' expectations after a fruitful season with Mumbai Indians last year . Shikhar Dhawan ( SRH ) : As a captain , Shikhar Dhawan has n't really inspired his team to raise their game. As an opener , too , his strike rate hovers around 115. The Sunrisers have suffered , at times , due to his lack of imagination as a leader. David Warner batting down the order is an example of that . Corey Anderson ( MI ) : Mumbai Indians let go Dwayne Smith to bring Corey Anderson on board after the New Zealander scored a 36-ball hundred against West Indies on the New Year 's day. The 23-year-old did back his claims of being the hottest kid on the block by doing well against the Indians at home. But the all-rounder 's inability to handle spinners has only backfired on MI . Kevin Pietersen ( DD ) : Before he turned into a gun for hire , Kevin Pietersen had wowed the crowds with his derring-do. But the burden of leading the side this year seems to have affected his batting big-time as he has n't scripted an innings of note after eight games. It would have been great had he chosen to not saddle himself with the captaincy . Mohammad Shami ( DD ) : If the ICC World T20 was n't good enough to prove that Mohammad Shami is n't cut out for the shortest form , IPL 7 has endorsed that belief. In the 10 games that he has played , Shami has conceded 304 runs and picked just five wickets for his efforts . R Ashwin ( CSK ) : R Ashwin has had an indifferent time in the middle. The offie , who has an answer for everything hurled at him , has struggled to respond to Glenn Maxwell 's bludgeoning bat. Since September 2012 , Maxwell has scored 162 runs off Ashwin in international cricket and IPL ( 11x4 , 13x6 ) and has dismissed him thrice. Overall , Ashwin is 12th on the wicket-taker 's list , which is well below his standards . Dale Steyn ( SRH ) : The South African speedster has n't really come into his own till now. The batsmen seem to have got the wood over him in this edition and it reflects in his economy rate of 7.45. The 30year-old has picked 10 wickets in as many games and he appeared helpless after the hiding he took ( 23 runs in one over ) from AB de Villiers . Amit Mishra ( SRH ) : With a nine-plus economy rate , Amit Mishra qualifies to be the official whipping boy of the league. The leg-spinner , who looked in great form in the ICC World T20 not a very long time ago , seems to have lost his mojo of late. He 's been bowling half trackers and full tosses consistently and that has only damaged his team 's chances . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virat Kohli,Shikhar Dhawan,Jacques Kallis,Dale Steyn,Chris Gayle Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
