Defending a ball was always a waste of time and energy Robin Uthappa. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED Robin Uthappa 's intelligent display of batsmanship , mixed with flicks and superbly timed drives on both flanks against the Mumbai Indians , on a typical Cuttack pitch ( which is known to be slow and low ) has exhibited one vital aspect . Batsmanship of manners , as Sir Neville Cardus wrote after watching a Lancashire schoolboy RH Spooner score 83 against Middlesex at Lord 's in 1899 . " It was a pleasure to bowl to Maister Spooner , " said an old player to Sir Neville Cardus , " his batting were as nice as he were himself. " Cardus added , it was batsmanship of manners . Could this expression be borrowed for describing Uthappa 's batting in various formats ? At the Barabati Stadium on Wednesday , the technicalities of batsmanship were put on show by him without a fuss. Ever since he began to open for KKR , his approach was evident . But a day before the s match against MI , he hurt his left big toe in the nets after getting struck by a yorker from Pat Cummins. The pain was excruciating. The physio Andrew Leipus was doing his best . But Uthappa said , " Against MI , I crossed the mental and physical barrier. So big was the injured toe , I could n't put , on my shoes. My shoe size is s UK 10. I requested Morkel for his shoes which are UK 12 f size. But the shoes were a bit too big to move around in. Then I tried UK 11 of Kallis . " It was okay. My toe could breathe , but I was very uncomfortable while running. I was worried about Malinga 's yorkers. I decided to hang around because for me , the team always comes first. I knew running between the wickets was going to be a big problem , but in the end , I could overcome the problem. " After he went out of the Indian team in 2008 , Uthappa seems to have realised that whichever the format one plays , one has to have the basics right . The boy from Suntikoppa in Coorg , Robin has always been an aggressive batsman from his Under-14 days. To him , defending a ball was a waste of time and energy. His simple philosophy seemed to be ` when you have shots , why not play them' . He is an opener because his mental makeup is ideally suited to that slot. If the national selectors are watching these matches , Uthappa ought to be on the tour to Bangladesh and England . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Robin Uthappa,Neville Cardus,Mumbai Indians,Kolkata Knight Riders,Andrew Leipus Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
