" I try to bowl dot balls and bowl in the good areas and mix my deliveries. Vary the pace and at times bowl outside the off-stump , " Ravindra Jadeja said. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : Ravindra Jadeja has been consistently performing with the ball for Chennai Super Kings , and the all-rounder says his mantra to success is to bowl in good areas and mix up the deliveries . Stating that a bowler always adjusts according to the given conditions , Jadeja said , " If the ball is turning then that is one way of bowling and if there is no turn then it is a different ball game . " I try to bowl dot balls and bowl in the good areas and mix my deliveries. Vary the pace and at times bowl outside the off-stump , " he explained . Jadeja was the most economical bowler with figures of 4-0-23-1 for the Super Kings on Monday night against Delhi Daredevils , who ended up posting a competitive 178 for five . Although he conceded 13 runs in his second over , the left-arm spinner dismissed Murali Vijay when handed the ball again and bowled a miserly second spell . " After giving away those runs in the second over I was only thinking about not bowling any loose deliveries in my next over. From the end I was bowling it had a shorter boundary , " Jadeja told IPL 's official website . " This is T20 cricket and they were going to take their chances. I was thinking of not bowling to their strength. My effort was to try and bowl where the batsman ca n't hit the big shots and luckily I was able to bowl in right areas. " Speaking about the dismissal of Vijay , Jadeja said : " He hits well over midwicket and mid-on in the slog overs so I thought of bowling to him outside off-stump. If he hits a good shot then there is nothing much I can do. " Jadeja said the Super Kings were expecting to restrict Daredevils to 160-165 . " When DD were 108 for three and lost a couple of wickets at the score of 120 , we thought of restricting them to 160-165 runs. We also knew that the boundary is a bit small and there is dew and it was drizzling also so we would benefit while chasing , " he said . The Super Kings ' top-order is having a dream run at the ongoing IPL 7 but Jadeja says he is prepared to score some quick runs whenever he is needed to . " I put in extra time in the nets. Considering that there could be a situation where I am needed to score 15-17 runs off the last over , I should be ready , " said Jadeja . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Ravindra Jadeja,Murali Vijay,IPL 7,Chennai Super Kings Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
