Shami said bowling with Bhuvneshwar Kumar for the Indian team does make his job a lot easier. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED NEW DELHI : The new-look Delhi Daredevils side came into IPL 7 with a side packed with seamers. The move did n't quite work on the UAE leg , with the side winning two games out of five . Back on familiar turf for their first match at the Ferozeshah Kotla against Rajasthan Royals on Saturday , skipper Kevin Pietersen and coach Gary Kirsten are busy trying to get the bowling combination right . Paceman Mohammad Shami and left-arm spinner Shahbaz Nadeem are the only two bowlers to have played in all five games. Left-arm seamer Wayne Parnell has been inconsistent while Nathan Coulter-Nile , who was impressive with the new ball in first game , has been ruled out with an injury . Shami said the side was still trying to figure out the right 'mix ' in their bowling. " We are still trying to get our bowling combination right. We have struggled with our bowling at the death. We can do much better with the new ball as well. We 'll aim to restrict teams to around 130-140 , " Shami said after the Daredevils ' practice session at the Palam ground on Wednesday . Shami said bowling with Bhuvneshwar Kumar for the Indian team does make his job a lot easier. " Bhuvi swings the ball very well and keeps things tight at the other end , which makes things easy for me. In the IPL , Nadeem has been bowling well for us but others need to do a much better job , " the Bengal pacer said . Shami might have bagged only three wickets in IPL 7 but has impressed with his pace , touching the 148-kph mark in UAE. Experts like Shoaib Akhtar believe Shami can go quicker if he makes better use of his bowling shoulder. The Daredevils ' assistant coach , Eric Simons , was also seen passing on tips to Shami in the nets . " I have spoken to a lot of senior bowlers and sought their help. Most of them have told me to concentrate on maintaining a good line and length first. Shoaib bhai told me to not compromise on pace and advised me on ways I can go quicker , " the 24-year-old said . Daredevils , who finished at the bottom of the points table last season , have been trying to find their way back under the leadership of Pietersen. The former England captain has been with the Daredevils from Day One but had his first batting session on Indian soil on Wednesday . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Shoaib Akhtar,Mohammad Shami,Kevin Pietersen,Gary Kirsten,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
