Uthappa , Pandey steer KKR to challenging 166/5 against DD PTI | Apr 19 , 2014 , 10.24 PM IST KKR had lost both the openers cheaply but Uthappa and Pandey set the platform for an exciting finish as they collected 103 runs in the last 10 overs. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED DUBAI : Robin Uthappa ( 55 ) and Manish Pandey ( 48 ) batted sensibly under pressure to guide Kolkata Knight Riders to a competitive 166 for five against Delhi Daredevils in an IPL Twenty20 cricket match , here on Saturday . Uthappa patiently added 64 runs for the third wicket with Pandey and then quickly shared a 57-run stand for the fourth wicket Shakib Al Hasan ( 30 not out ) to lift KKR to a decent total after electing to bat . KKR had lost both the openers cheaply but Uthappa and Pandey set the platform for an exciting finish as they collected 103 runs in the last 10 overs . Pandey 's 48 came off 42 balls with five shots to the fence while Uthappa took 41 balls for his knock , which had six boundaries . Hasan also played a crucial role in KKR 's progress with his unbeaten cameo off 22 balls. He hit a six and two fours . Pacemen Mohammed Shami and Nathan Coulter-Nile provided a sensational start to Delhi by removing both the openers before they could even open their accounts . Shami had dangerman Jacques Kallis caught at first slip for a golden duck while Coulter-Nile extended Gautam Gambhir 's poor run by having the KKR skipper caught in leg-slip region for his second successive duck in the tournament . Shami struggled for control but swung the ball both ways to trouble the KKR batsmen. In bowling friendly conditions , boundaries were hard to come , so Pandey and Uthappa relied on singles and twos to steady the innings . KKR innings ' first four came in the fifth over when Pandey pulled one from Shami to mid-wicket boundary. The two batsmen batted cautiously and took their side to 63 for two at half-way stage . Pandey broke the shackles by hitting Shabaz Nadeem for two successive boundaries but the left-arm spinner got his revenge by castling the batsman in the last ball of 11th over . Hasan was aggressive from the start as he lifted Nadeem for a six over mid-wicket and Uthappa creamed off a six and a four off Jimmy Neesham to take KKR total 112 for three from 15 overs . Uthappa departed shortly after completing his fifty but Hasan stayed on smartly to end the innings in style . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Robin Uthappa,Manish Pandey,Kolkata Knight Riders,IPL,Gautam Gambhir Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
