Viru is a superhero of the game , says Miller Devadyuti Das Devadyuti Das,TNN | Apr 14 , 2014 , 11.58 PM IST " I have enjoyed a great time with the team over the last couple of years , " David Miller said. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED IPL offers great learning experience : Thisara NEW DELHI : It 's not often that one innings defines an individual. For David Miller , a sensational hundred off just 38 balls in Kings XI Punjab colours last year marked his arrival on the world stage with a bang . As one match-winner in Adam Gilchrist announced his exit last year , Kings XI found a more than able replacement in Miller , the only foreign player to be retained by the franchise. Teams are now aware of the South African 's capabilities and IPL 7 may well be his litmus test . " The century against RCB last year was definitely one of my most memorable innings. I would n't quite call it my defining knock but my career has certainly developed at the right pace over a period of time since that ton. That night , though , was pretty unforgettable , " Miller told TOI from Dubai on Monday . Miller was signed up by Kings XI in 2011 for just $ 100,000 to replace an injured Dimitri Mascarenhas and was retained at the same price next year. The southpaw 's 418 runs in 12 games at a strike-rate of 164 tilted the scales in his favour when it came to retaining players this year . " I have enjoyed a great time with the team over the last couple of years. It really feels good to be retained by the team but I do n't think it brings any extra pressure. The only pressure that 's there is to keep on performing at my best , " the 24-year-old said . The South African had a very modest outing in the recently-concluded World T20 in Bangladesh , scoring only 84 runs in five games. Lance Klusener , Dolphins coach and one of the finest finishers in the game , dubbed Miller as the Proteas ' match-winner but felt he batted too low down the order . Asked about his preferred batting slot in IPL 7 , he said , " I am a complete team man and I 'll be prepared to bat anywhere , even open. In T20 , it always helps to get a few deliveries to get one 's eyes in. " The man from Pietermaritzburg felt that the Kings XI management bought quite intelligently during the auctions and was especially pleased to get the opportunity to play with Virender Sehwag . " One of the beauties of IPL is the fact that we get to play alongside some of the superheroes of the game and Viru is definitely one of those. I 'll try my best to learn as much as I can from him , " Miller said . Kings XI have had a couple of training sessions in Dubai and played a practice game on Monday evening. Miller said that the side was bonding well under new skipper George Bailey. " George is also finding his way around a new team. We all know that he is a good man-manager and he 's trying to get to know his teammates and how best to utilize them. He 's discussed some good ideas and let 's see how they turn out for the team. " http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Virender Sehwag,Kings XI Punjab,IPL 7,David Miller,Adam Gilchrist Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
