We need to bounce back quickly , says Fleming PTI | May 9 , 2014 , 07.34 PM IST READ MORE Stephen Fleming | Mumbai Indians | Kings XI Punjab | Glenn Maxwell | Chennai Super Kings RELATED MUMBAI : Chennai Super Kings need to quickly get over the mauling they received from Glenn Maxwell 's punitive bat and bounce back to win their high-octane clash against Mumbai Indians , head coach Stephen Fleming said on Friday . " We had reflected on the Maxwell factor at the press conference ( at Cuttack two nights ago ) . On the positive side we scored ( around ) 190 ( 187 ) . Our batsmanship is looking good. But we can tie up under pressure and Maxwell has put us under a lot of pressure in this tournament , " said the former New Zealand skipper at the pre-game media conference . The Australian went on a rampage at the Barabati Stadium to slam 90 in only 38 balls with the help of 8 sixes and 6 fours , which piloted Kings XI Punjab to a season-high 231 for 4 and the two-time former champions replied with 187 for 6 to lose the game by 44 runs , their second defeat in 8 games , the earlier loss also coming against the same opponents in UAE . " But in other games we have been good. We need to bounce back and play well in this game and get another win under our belt which is very important , " said Fleming . Fleming said his side was concentrating on regaining the momentum and finishing in the top two after the league stage to get a crack at a direct spot in the final through the first qualifier on May 27 . " It 's crucial to go on a run and win six in a row which will put us in a very good position. We know the next three games very important for us. All we are concentrating on is to sustain ( position ) in the top 2 by winning tomorrow and maintain pressure on Rajasthan ( Royals ) and Sunrisers ( Hyderabad ) . The table can change very quickly , " he explained . The key for his side after the loss in the previous game was to stay calm which they had exhibited in the past , felt Fleming . " There 's pressure there. We need to get on a winning run to ease the pressure. The moment you lose pressure builds up. Our challenge is to maintain calm. Over the years we have done that well even when we were in a lot of trouble. T20 is highly emotionally strung. We have to maintain smart presence on the field. " " I think it 's not quite at the stage where you can see the trend ( on who will qualify for the play-offs ) . Looking at the quality of the sides , Mumbai can go on a run now and win 4-5 games. It looks tough for Delhi , but those two sides have got the capability. I am pretty sure someone else will join the pack. " http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Stephen Fleming,Mumbai Indians,Kings XI Punjab,Glenn Maxwell,Chennai Super Kings Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
