Sunrisers coach Moody rules out batting concerns HYDERABAD : Armed with the best in business at the top of the tree in batting and bowling departments , Sunrisers Hyderabad are set for the Desert Safari , the first leg of IPL-VII , beginning in the UAE on April 16 . The Hyderabad outfit , which made its IPL debut last season with no mean success - the team finished fourth with a 10-6 win-loss record - will have reasons to be pleased with its acquisitions at the auction. Aaron Finch , David Warner and skipper Shikhar Dhawan ( retained ) form an explosive combination at the top. Dale Steyn is a lethal weapon while Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Ishant Sharma can swing it their way . SRH mentor VVS Laxman reckoned Finch and Warner are a big plus point. " We have retained players who have done well last year and added skilful T20 players who will straightaway fit into the environment we created last season. There was a lot of stress on building the right environment and we now have players with good skill sets , right attitude and fighting spirit to win tough matches,' ' he told TOI on Thursday . Sunrisers reveled at home , where they played to their strengths , which is their bowling ( Dhawan played only 10 games ) , but faltered in their away games. " We hope to address that issue and go one better this time. In Warner , Finch and Dhawan we probably have the best top three in T20 cricket. The top three are very important in this format and then we have the likes of Darren Sammy and Henriques as options to follow them. Overall it 's a balanced team for all conditions , " Laxman said . Leg-spinners Amit Mishra , who they got back by using the right to match card at the auction , and Karn Sharma , bought back for a hefty price , also played a crucial role in sealing important wins. SRH have added variety to their attack by getting Parvez Rasool into the mix this season. " The leg-spinners were excellent bowling in tandem. Mishra and Karn are match-winning bowlers. Steyn and Ishant were excellent first up but spinners were one reason we did well last season. It 's great that we have them both back. " Unlike last year , though , there is a different set of domestic players whose contribution , Laxman reckoned , is very important to the team 's success. " We have good local talent both in terms of international and domestic experience. Bhuvneshwar , Ishant and Irfan ( Pathan ) have good knowledge of various conditions. " http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = VVS Laxman,Shikhar Dhawan,Karn Sharma,Irfan Pathan,Bhuvneshwar Kumar Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
