Wickets should be the same in UAE , believes Ishant PTI | Apr 11 , 2014 , 06.02 PM IST Replying to a query on UAE wickets , Ishant Sharma said the pitch conditions are the same anywhere in Asia and execution of plans is a crucial aspect in shortest format. ( TOI Photo ) RELATED HYDERABAD : Having missed out on the recent World T20 and Asia Cup action , lanky pacer Ishant Sharma is fit and raring to go for Sunrisers Hyderabad in the seventh edition of IPL starting April 16 in Abu Dhabi . " Obviously , you feel bad when you are not part of the T20 World Cup. It is a big tournament. But , it is not in my hand. If I am playing Test cricket or wherever I am playing , I have to do well in those conditions and that particular format , " Ishant said on Friday . Ishant , who did a splendid job for Sunrisers in the last edition , hopes to put up a good show in the new season as well . " Obviously , I am looking forward to do well in the new season. I am bowling well. I am in good rhythm. I played in domestic Twenty20 , bowled well , took some wickets. I am confident with my bowling and hopefully I will do well for the Sunrisers this time as well , " he said . Replying to a query on UAE wickets , he said the pitch conditions are the same anywhere in Asia and execution of plans is a crucial aspect in shortest format . " I think the wicket will be the same. It does not matter whether you play in India or UAE , wicket will be the same in Asia. You should know where you need to bowl in T20 format. You do n't need to see how the wicket is going to behave. You just need to execute your plans well. That 's it , " he said . Looking to make a comeback to the national fold , Ishant is not setting any personal goals for himself as that , he believes , would create unnecessary pressure . " I do n't set personal goals for myself. Because in doing so you end up putting pressure on yourself. In T20 cricket one needs to react according to the situation , " he said . Asked how he dealt with poor form in recent times , he said one needs to move on rather than getting bogged down by an unimpressive performance . " Obviously , you feel bad if you do n't do well for your country. When you are a professional , you need to move on and ensure that you learn from your mistakes , " Ishant said . Ishant reveals that a pep talk by his mother or close friends surely helps him regain his confidence when he is feeling low . " It was a setback for me when I did not do well for the country or when I was not selected. I think the one person who gave me confidence is my mother. At one stage , I thought I should stop playing ODIs. But my mother talked pulled me out of my negativities. Such support from your parents or friends gives you the much-needed confidence. Now , I am enjoying my cricket , which is more important. If you enjoy your cricket and express yourself on the field , you will do well , " he said . On Sunrisers ' chances in the upcoming tournament , Ishant believes that every team will pose a challenge to each other . " It is difficult to say that. Every team is good and balanced. It is better to take one game at a time and that 's what we are going to do , " he said . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = United Arab Emirates,Sunrisers Hyderabad,Ishant Sharma,IPL,Asia cup Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
