RR player approached to fix IPL game : Report MIRPUR : Rajasthan Royals has had a controversial tenure in their six seasons in the Indian Premier League but their new captain Shane Watson feels it would have been a " shame " if the champions of the inaugural year were barred from playing in the seventh edition of the cash-rich tournament . " Personally for me , it would be a huge shame if Rajasthan was n't playing this IPL because I certainly love every moment I 've spent there since it started , " said Watson during a pre-match media interaction of Australia 's 'dead-rubber ' against minnows Bangladesh . " But as I have said , we ( RR ) have been kicked out before so you never know how things will pan out but we are on the right side again , thank God. I 've always been confident things will work out well in the end , which it seems to have worked out that way , " he added . Since Australia are already out of the tournament , topics like IPL and Yuvraj Singh dominated the discussions more than their match against Bangladesh . " Yuvraj was always going to take a bit of time to get going. He obviously had n't scored any runs in the first couple of games but I 've seen Yuvraj take us apart at certain times since I was 18 ( referring to the 2000 U-19 World Cup ) , " said Watson . " Playing against Yuvraj , when he is on , he hits the ball in all different spots. He gave himself a bit of time to get in and then picked his bowlers to be able to take on , " he added referring to Yuvraj 's 43-ball 60-run innings which gave India a huge 73-run victory . Watson feels when Yuvraj is counter-attacking , he is at his best and the innings against Australia will give him a lot of confidence boost . " There 's no doubt when Yuvraj is taking on the bowlers , it is certainly when he is at his absolute best. And tonight , he hit the ball as clean as anyone in the world , from the quicks to the spinners as well , " the allrounder said . " Ya , there 's no doubt it is going to be a huge confidence-builder for the Indian team itself as well as Yuvraj. He is batting well for the Indian team certainly makes them a great team because they have got a very good opening combination and him in the middle-order , we 've seen what he has done in the World Cup previously as well. " On the Bangladesh game , Watson said that he wants to do well personally as well as a team . " I have been nowhere near my best in the tournament. I have probably scored five runs or so. May be I have taken more wickets than the number of runs that I have scored , " he said . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Yuvraj Singh,Shane Watson,Rajasthan Royals,IPL,Indian Premier League Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
