Kolkata Knight Riders win IPL 7 trophy PTI | Jun 1 , 2014 , 10.08 PM IST Kolkata Knight Riders ' Manish Pandey celebrates his fifty runs during the IPL 7 Final match against Kings XI Punjab. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED BANGALORE : Riding on Manish Pandey 's brilliant 50-ball-94 , Kolkata Knight Riders chased down a mammoth 200-run target to beat Kings XI Punjab in the final and lift the IPL trophy on Sunday . Earlier , Saha played a career defining innings as his magnificent century propelled kings XI Punjab to a competitive 199/4 . Saha walked into the record books by being the first ever player to score a century in the IPL final as his unbeaten 115 off 55 balls had 10 fours and eight sixes . Saha and Vohra were swift yet brutal in their shot-making as they added a whopping 129 off 12 overs after Kings XI Punjab looked in a spot at 58 for two after the front 10 . The back-10 got them as many as 141 runs thanks to the brilliant counter-attack by the Bengal stumper . Vohra , a surprise retention at the start of the season scored 67 off 52 balls with six fours and two sixes. He was lucky on 62 as Robin Uthappa collected the ball in-front of the stumps while trying to stump him. But he was out trying to slog Chawla . The day belonged to Saha , who was in a mood to punish the spinners but played some equally good shot against the pacers including a hook shot off Morne Morkel . Sunil Narine , who decided to give Test cricket a miss was esepcially clobbered for 46 runs in his four overs . Saha completed his century off 49 balls hitting Narine over long-on for a six which Suryakumar yadav nearly got his hand . Virender Sehwag 's ( 7 ) fans , who were expecting another swashbuckling innings were left disappointed as the veteran did n't execute the pull-shot off a well-directed bouncer from Umesh. The resultant skier was taken by Gautam Gambhir standing at mid-off . Then there was a battle of wits between the skipper which Gautam Gambhir won hands down. Rival skipper George Bailey promoted himself up the order which prompted Gambhir to bring in Narine. The first delivery was a big off-break as Bailey tried to play an ugly paddle shot shuffling across the line. He missed it and the leg-stump was uprooted . Vohra on the otherhand slog-swept Piyush Chawla over depe mid-wicket for a six while Saha also got into the groove with some singles . KKR initially bowled a tight line and the slowness of the pitch helped them before Saha cut loose . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Wriddhiman Saha,Kolkata Knight Riders,Kings XI Punjab,Indian Premier League Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
