Yuvraj , De Villiers propel RCB to 190/5 PTI | May 11 , 2014 , 10.22 PM IST Royal Challengers Bangalore 's Yuvraj Singh plays a shot during the IPL 7 match against Rajasthan Royals at Chinnaswamy Stadium in Bengaluru. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED BANGALORE : Yuvraj Singh struck form with a magnificent 83 while AB de Villiers hit a scintillating 58 to power Royal Challengers Bangalore to 190 for five against Rajasthan Royals in their IPL match on Sunday . Yuvraj , who was dropped on 47 by Sanju Samson , shared a game-changing 132 run partnership with de Villiers as RCB scored 84 runs in the last five overs to snatch the momentum from their rivals , who were well in command till 12 overs . Yuvraj , who received criticism from some quarters for his slow batting and failures in this IPL , began with a flourish as he smashed seven fours and seven sixes in 38-ball knock . De Villiers , who is the most consistent batsman of RCB , continued with his form in T20 , punished the bowlers with five sixes and a four . They belted 120 runs in the last eight overs , sending bowlers on a leather-hunt . The duo were competing in hitting fours and sixes towards the end of the innings after RCB had a disastrous start , losing three wickets for 40 runs in 8.1 overs . RCB innings was off to a disastrous start after their captain Virat Kohli , who opened the innings instead of Parthiv Patel , returned to the dugout cheaply in third over . Kohli tried to smash the ball over extra-cover , got a thick edge that went into the hands of Rajat Bhatia stationed at third man off Kane Richardson . The mighty West Indian Chris Gayle , who is yet to get a big score under his belt in this IPL , started his innings sedately but shifted gears by smashing two boundaries in Pravin Tambe 's first over for nine runs . However , in the next over the oldest IPL player had the last laugh by having Gayle reaching for a googly and was caught by Sanju Samson behind the stumps after he had made 19 off 25 balls with three boundaries . Vijay Zol , who played his first match of the season , made 16 runs off 14 balls with three boundaries , before he thick edged right-arm legbreak Rahul Tewatia 's wrong one to captain Shane Watson standing in first slip . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Yuvraj Singh,Royal Challengers Bangalore,Rajasthan Royals,IPL 7,AB de Villiers Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
