Daredevils post 184/3 against Royals NEW DELHI : Once labelled a 'pie-chucker ' by Kevin Pietersen , beleaguered Yuvraj Singh has found support from the maverick batsman , who says the India left-hander is at the receiving end of " unwarranted criticism " following his scratchy knock in the World T20 final . Yuvraj 's 21-ball 11 sucked the momentum out of India 's innings on Sunday and some unruly fans pelted stones at the all-rounder 's residence in Chandigarh. India lost the title clash to Sri Lanka by six wickets . Standing behind Yuvraj , who is now a friend , Pietersen said : " I have n't read the newspapers here but what I have seen on twitter is that he has got a bit of stick. I think that it was unwarranted and he did not deserve this. " Former India players such as Kris Srikkanth and Ravi Shastri had critical of Yuvraj 's batting , prompting Pietersen to say that it 's " very easy to say things " when one is not an active international cricketer . " You ca n't always be good. It 's very easy to say things when you stop playing. I see a lot of players talking who do n't even play international cricket and wished they were playing , have a lot of things to say. Because criticising is the easiest thing to do , " he said . Set to lead Delhi Daredevils in the upcoming seventh edition of Indian Premier league , Pietersen is happy that he will have to face a selection dilemma when it comes to having his pick between 'Million Dollar Man ' Dinesh Karthik and the new South African sensation Quinton de Kock when they kickstart their campaign . While De Kock has made grand entry into international cricket , Karthik 's Rs 12.5 crore bidding makes him slightly favourite to get the nod . " Of course , it is good to have selection dilemmas as it is quite a good thing to have. I kind of enjoy having selection dilemmas. You have got to hate the fact that you can only choose from only 11 players . " You should be wanting that your squad of 16 is ready to have a go. Yes , it will be a difficult pick for the first match but we would certainly settle down with time , " he said . Life without international cricket is not something that Pietersen would have ideally imagined but then he has been a non-conformist in many ways . Pietersen loves to be a " realist " and that 's the reason he is not feeling stressed ahead of IPL . " I do n't see any pressure. In fact , I enjoy pressure. As an individual , all you can do is to give your best. In the next six weeks , I will give my everything to Delhi Daredevils. I am a firm believer in 'what will be will be'. So people ca n't demand things. People can be happy if things happen and be disappointed when things do n't happen. I am a realist in every sense , " Pietersen said matter-of-factly . The batsman is upbeat about his team 's chances as he believed that the team has got good depth . " We do have a lot of expectations as we have picked up a player that can do real good things. The strength is good as we have quality Indian players and experienced overseas players. In Gary Kirsten , we have a great coach. I think we have the ability to go all the way. Having said that , I can tell you that there are no guarantees as such , " he said . Talking about DD coach Gary Kirsten , K P said that both are on the same page regarding team 's common goal . " I think my interactions with Gary has been very , very good. We kind of sing from similar hymn sheet. Gary is a very relaxed man and a great man manager. I just ca n't wait to start working with him. " When Pietersen speaks , the reassuring tone makes even worrying factors look like non issues . Delhi 's spin bowling is an issue but Pietersen brushed it aside . " We have leg-spinner Rahul Sharma apart from Shahbaz Nadeem. He 's played for India and he will be good.' ' He also feels that there is no big deal about adaptability as some of the younger Indian players will be playing in UAE for the first time . " If you talk about me , I have done that for 10 years of international cricket playing in different countries in different conditions. As far as the younger players are concerned , it will be a good experience for them. " http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Yuvraj Singh,World T20,Kevin Pietersen,IPL,Delhi Daredevils Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
