1st Test : Elgar gives South Africa solid start against Sri Lanka The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jul 16 , 2014 , 01.26PM IST South Afric 's Dean Elgar bats against Sri Lanka on the first day of the first Test in Galle. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 GALLE : Opener Dean Elgar smashed an unbeaten 62 as South Africa raced to 111/1 at lunch on the opening day of the first Test against Sri Lanka on Wednesday . Elgar , 27 , hit nine fours and a six in his 91-ball knock after new Test skipper Hashim Amla chose to bat on a placid track at the Galle International Stadium . The left-handed Elgar and his partner Alviro Petersen ( 34 ) gave the visitors a steady start , putting on 70 for the opening wicket off 101 balls . Petersen was particularly severe on left-arm spinner Rangana Herath , welcoming him with four boundaries in his first over of the day . Elgar picked fast bowler Shaminda Eranga for special treatment , hitting him for three fours in the same over , including one that crashed away through the point boundary . The opener , playing in his 10th Test , reached his second half-century in style , smashing off-spinner Dilruwan Perera through midwicket for an elegant boundary . He also lofted Perera over the long-on boundary fence for the only six of the session . Desperate for a breakthrough , Sri Lankan skipper Angelo Mathews made frequent bowling changes but failed to find success until the 17th over , when Perera ( 1-31 ) had Petersen trapped leg before wicket . Petersen was unhappy with the decision of on-field umpire Richard Kettleborough and asked for a review . The decision was upheld when replays showed the ball would have clipped leg-stump . Petersen made 34 off 46 balls with the help of four boundaries. Faf du Plessis , batting at number three for the first time , was unbeaten on 14 at the break . Earlier , South Africa picked a lone specialist spinner in Imran Tahir with JP Duminy as a part-time off-spinner . Sri Lanka close two slow bowlers in Herath and Perera . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
