1st Test : Sangakkara keeps alive Sri Lanka victory dream The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jul 19 , 2014 , 06.10PM IST Sri Lankan Kumar Sangakkara plays a shot during the fourth day of the opening Test match against South Africa at the Galle International Cricket Stadium in Galle. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 GALLE ( Sri Lanka ) : Kumar Sangakkara smashed his 49th half-century as Sri Lanka launched a stunning fightback on the fourth day of the first Test against South Africa on Saturday . The prolific left-hander also shared 96 runs for the unbroken second wicket with Kaushal Silva ( 37 ) to take Sri Lanka to 110-1 at stumps . The hosts need 260 runs with nine wickets in hand to pull off a magical come-from-behind win with three full sessions left in the game . Sri Lanka had been forced on the backfoot after they were bowled out for 292 to concede a huge 163-run lead in the first innings . But a sporting declaration by new South African skipper Hashim Amla at the tea score of 206-6 turned the game on its head . Although no team has ever scored more than 300 runs in the final innings at Galle , the 36-year-old Sangakkara made a target of 370 look chaseable . The star batsman had so far hit seven fours and a six in his 58-run knock that came off 89 deliveries . South Africa began their defence well , with Dale Steyn once again giving his side the early breakthrough by dismissing opener Upul Tharanga for 14 . But Sangakkara stood like a rock at the other end , once despatching a full-toss from Tahir over the mid-wicket fence for a huge six . He completed his half-century in style , sweeping leg-spinner Imran Tahir through midwicket for a four . Silva also knocked off some easy runs , smacking part-timer Jean-Paul Duminy for two fours in a row . Vernon Philander , who was Friday fined 75 percent of his match fees after being accused of ball tampering , bowled six wicketless overs for 13 runs . Earlier , AB De Villiers hit six boundaries in his breezy 58-ball 51 and also shared 62 runs with Quinton de Kock ( 36 ) to set up South African second innings . The Proteas had made 455-9 declared in their first essay. To their credit , the Sri Lankan spinners exploited well the dry and dusty track , accounting for all the wickets that fell in the South African second innings . Off-spinner Dilruwan Perera picked an impressive 4-79 while Rangana Herath took 2-84 . Perera struck early into the second session , claiming the big wicket of Amla , who is leading South Africa for the first time in Test cricket . Amla ( 22 ) mistimed his flick and lobbed the ball to a diving Upul Tharanga for his second cheap dismissal in the game . Faf du Plessis ( 37 ) fell to a turner from Herath that crashed on to his stumps , dislodging the bails . De Villiers frustrated the spinners with his shot-making until his stumps were shattered by Perera close to the tea break . De Kock fell on the last ball before the break , lobbing an easy return catch to Perera . Opener Dean Elgar , who made 103 in the first innings , was the first batsman to fall as he tried to go for an ambitious drive off Herath but nicked it behind to wicketkeeper Dinesh Chandimal . Alviro Petersen ( 32 ) was given caught behind off Perera but the batsman asked for a review. TV replays remained inconclusive and in the end the decision of on-field umpire was upheld . The batsman walked off the field , shaking his head in disappointment. South Africa had wrapped up the Sri Lankan innings in the fifth over of the day with paceman Morne Morkel ( 3-49 ) sending back overnight batsman Herath for 19 . The second and final Test will be played in Colombo from July 24-28 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
