2nd Test , Day 1 : Centurion Rahane takes India out of deep waters The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 18 , 2014 , 09.07AM IST Ajinkya Rahane acknowledges the crowd after reaching century during play on the first day of the second Test against England at Lord 's cricket ground on July 17 , 2014. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : In a series that has been labelled as 'Pushgate ' after James Anderson allegedly shoved Ravindra Jadeja during the first Test at Trent Bridge , both England and India jostled all day for pole position before Ajinkya Rahane emerged from the shadows to steal the limelight with a brilliant hundred at Lord 's on Thursday . Put into bat by England skipper Alastair Cook on a made-to-order greenish pitch , India were lucky to get through the first session , losing just two wickets for 73 runs before collapsing in a heap in the second and recovering through an eighth-wicket stand of 90 between Rahane ( 103 ) and Bhuvneshwar Kumar ( 36 ) to end the day on 290/9 that kept them very much in the game . Rahane , who looked to be in complete control during his 233-minute stay at the crease , became the ninth Indian batsman to notch up a Test hundred at this historic venue. It was an innings of exemplary courage and conviction that lent a semblance of dignity to the Indian tally . Having come into bat shortly after lunch with his team in trouble at 86 for three , Rahane did n't let the situation bog him down. He picked his spots to score his runs , taking full toll every time the English pacers pitched it short . Sensing that he could run out of partners after Bhuvneshwar had his stumps rattled by Stuart Broad with one that kept somewhat low , Rahane stepped on the gas even as he shielded Mohammad Shami , whose Trent Bridge heroics earned him a minor promotion in the batting order. Two successive pulls through midwicket off Liam Plunkett saw Rahane rush to 98 before he brought up his second Test hundred with a delightful punch through cover off Anderson , operating with the second new ball. Significantly , Rahane 's second fifty came off just 50 balls . Anderson , easily England 's best bowler on view , had his man three balls later when he held a low return catch to send back the man who had single-handedly held the Indian innings together on a day that should have been dominated by the home team . Earlier , England pacers , guilty of not making full use of the new ball in helpful conditions in the opening session , made amends after lunch by pitching the ball up and attacking the stumps. It was a woeful period for India during which they lost four wickets , including that of skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni , for the addition of just 67 runs . India did lose an early wicket when Shikhar Dhawan edged Anderson to Gary Ballance at second slip , but Murali Vijay and Cheteshwar Pujara , despite being beaten occasionally by the late movement , hung in there grimly to thwart England. Vijay , who was put down by Matt Prior off Broad even before he had opened his account , batted well for an hour before top-edging an intended flick off Plunkett to depart for 24 . It could have been three down for 73 had Prior held a regulation catch off Moeen Ali 's bowling after Virat Kohli only managed a nick while trying to cut. Kohli , however failed to make it count , and once again fell fishing outside his off-stump . It was Anderson his 70th wicket -the most claimed by any bowler at Lord 's . Pujara , who has made a career out of blocking everything that rival bowlers throw at him , stonewalled for a shade under two hours before losing his middle stump to Ben Stokes , who sneaked one in through the gate. Dhoni , who has this awful habit of walking into his strokes , hastened his downfall by trying it against Broad and Prior , for a change held the catch. With Jadeja and Stuart Binny failing to reproduce their Trent Bridgeform , the onus fell on Rahane , who was well up to the task . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
