India win Lord 's Test by 95 runs The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jul 21 , 2014 , 08.06PM IST India ’ s Ishant Sharma celebrates taking the wicket of England ’ s Matt Prior on the fifth day of the second Test. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Ishant Sharma took seven wickets as India ended a run of 15 Tests without an away victory courtesy of a 95-run win over England at Lord 's on Monday . This victory , only India 's second in 17 Tests at Lord 's , put the tourists 1-0 up in the five-match series after the drawn opener at Trent Bridge . Meanwhile this result extended England 's run without a Test win to 10 matches . England , chasing 319 for victory , were bowled out for 223 with paceman Sharma taking five for 24 in 33 balls either side of lunch as the hosts demonstrated an alarming weakness against the short ball . The slump saw England , who had been 173 for four , lose their last six wickets for 50 runs . Sharma 's final figures of seven for 74 were his best in Tests , surpassing the 25-year-old 's six for 51 against New Zealand in Wellington earlier this year . England resumed Monday on 105 for four , having only three times in their history made more than 300 in the fourth innings to win a Test . And only once before had a side made more batting last to win a Test at Lord 's , with the West Indies piling up 344 for one against England back in 1984 thanks to a brilliant double century by Gordon Greenidge . But on the stroke of lunch , England were 173 for four with Joe Root and Moeen Ali holding firm . However , to the very last ball of the session , Ali turned his head away from a Sharma bouncer and gloved a simple catch to Cheteshwar Pujara at short leg . It was the end of his painstaking , three-hour , 39 and a fifth-wicket stand of 101 with Root , then unbeaten on 52 . The resumption saw several England batsmen fall to bouncer traps so obvious they might as well as have been sign-posted . Wicketkeeper Matt Prior , who has been having a torrid season behind the stumps , decided to hook Sharma , with several men positioned for the shot deep on the legside , but did n't get over the top of the ball and duly picked out Murali Vijay at mid-wicket . Ben Stokes then fell for a duck when he miscued an intended pull to Pujara at wide mid-on . England 's hopes of a draw now rested with Root but on 66 he too could n't resist a bouncer , hooking Sharma straight to Stuart Binny at deep backward square leg . During their 5-0 Ashes thrashing in Australia , England had been undone by the express pace of left-arm fast bowler Mitchell Johnson . Sharma was nowhere near as quick but , with England donating their wickets , he did n't need to be . Stuart Broad also failed to cope with a rising delivery , gloving Sharma down the legside to India captain and wicketkeeper Mahendra Singh Dhoni to leave England on the brink of defeat at 216 for nine . The match ended when James Anderson was run out by Ravindra Jadeja 's direct hit , with the two players both facing a possible ban from matches in the rest of this series following their alleged confrontation in the drawn first Test at Trent Bridge . Root and Ali had come together with England in dire straits at 72 for four after losing three wickets for two runs in 20 balls on Sunday . England had collapsed on Sunday , with under-pressure captain Alastair Cook out for just 22 to make it 27 innings since the last of his England record 25 Test hundreds . Fellow experienced batsman Ian Bell fared even worse , bowled for one , his run without a Test century now extending to 19 innings . Cook elected to field on a 'green top ' after winning the toss and saw India decline to 147 for seven . But , not for the first time in recent matches , England failed to polish off the tail as India made 295 in their first innings , with Ajinkya Rahane scoring 103 . The third Test at Southampton starts on Sunday . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
