2nd Test : Sri Lanka on top despite Amla ton The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jul 26 , 2014 , 07.36PM IST South African captain Hashim Amla rasies his bat to celebrate scoring a century during the third day of the second Test against Sri Lanka in Colombo. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 COLOMBO : Captain Hashim Amla struck a gritty 139 not out but failed to stop Sri Lanka from taking the driver 's seat in the second and final Test against South Africa on Saturday . Amla , 31 , batted for more than eight hours to frustrate the Sri Lankan spinners who shared nine wickets between them to bowl out South Africa for 282 in their first innings . Sri Lanka , who made 421 in their first essay , were 11-0 at stumps in their second innings on the third day for an overall lead of 150 . Off-spinner Dilruwan Perera ( 5-69 ) grabbed a five-wicket haul , his second in five Tests , while left-armer Rangana Herath chipped in with 4-71 . South Africa 's weaknesses against spin were exposed as none of the batsmen , barring Amla , could even make a half-century despite the fact the wicket was no minefield . " There were phases when the runs dried up , it was tough scoring runs , " said South African coach Russell Domingo after the day 's play . " It was n't easy for us because of the consistency of their spinners. It would have been great if we had scored 100 more runs. 140-odd is a big lead , it 's a substantial lead. Sri Lanka are obviously in a very good position , " he said . For Amla , it was his first century as South Africa 's Test captain. He faced 382 balls and hit 12 fours in his marathon effort . It was also the first by a South African captain in Sri Lanka , and proved crucial to help the visitors avoid the embarrassment of a follow-on . The South African innings was wrapped up in the final session with Herath having Dale Steyn ( 30 ) caught by Kumar Sangakkara and Imran Tahir ( 15 ) by Upul Tharanga at deep mid-off . Perera then sent back Morne Morkel for a duck to bowl out the Proteas with five overs remaining in the day . Sri Lankan openers Kaushal Silva ( five ) and Upul Tharanga ( six ) saw off the overs without any hiccups . South Africa lost Jean-Paul Duminy and Vernon Philander ( nine ) to spin in the second session that saw them put on 71 runs at less than three runs an over . Duminy ( three ) fiddled around for more than an hour before he was stumped by Niroshan Dickwella off Herath while Philander was bowled by Perera . Perera said the defensive approach by the South Africans had boomeranged on them . " We thought they were trying to play for a draw. We managed to get a good lead because they batted defensively . " At the moment , we do not have a target in mind. But if we get about 200 runs more , we will be in a very good position , " he said . Amla , dropped on 93 at short cover by Silva , completed his 22nd Test hundred with a single off Herath , a fitting reward for his lonely toil on the crease . The bearded batting wizard is leading the side for the first time in this two-Test series after being named skipper last month following the retirement of Graeme Smith . The first session saw Herath get rid of AB de Villiers ( 37 ) and Quinton de Kock for a duck in the space of three balls after South Africa had resumed at their overnight 98-3 . Amla and De Villiers had started off positively and saw off the first hour without harm . Amla broke the shackles with two consecutive fours off unorthodox spinner Ajantha Mendis and De Villiers followed suit , hitting paceman Suranga Lakmal ( 1-54 ) for three boundaries in the same over . De Villiers had a scare on 30 when he gloved Lakmal to the wicketkeeper but TV replays showed the ball had bounced just inches short of Dickwella . But just when the partnership was building up between Amla and De Villiers , Perera 's double-strike reduced South Africa to 150-5 . He first had De Villiers trapped plumb in front off the fourth ball and then knocked the off-stump of De Kock off the last ball of the over . South Africa lead the series 1-0 after winning the opener in Galle by 153 runs . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
