36 years on , Bindra quits as PCA chief The author has posted comments on this article Hindol Basu , TNN | Aug 24 , 2014 , 11.43AM IST Bindra has been a fierce critic of the current Indian cricket board including present ICC president N Srinivasan. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHANDIGARH : One of India 's senior most cricket administrators , Inderjit Singh Bindra has resigned as president of the Punjab Cricket Association ( PCA ) after being in charge for 36 years . " I feel it is the right time to withdraw from the daily affairs of PCA , " Bindra told TOI. " I will be leaving cricket administration a satisfied person. A day comes in everyone 's life that one has to go through this phase and I have made my decision. " D P Reddy , an IAS officer who has been an administrator with PCA for the past 14 years , will take over as the new president. Just two months ago , he was relieved as principal secretary ( finance ) , one of the top portfolios in the secretariat and the charge was given to principal secretary ( health ) Vini Mahajan . At present the 1985-batch officer is principal secretary - excise , taxation , industries and commerce. The 56-year-old is currently the vice-president of the association . Welcoming Reddy , PCA joint secretary G S Walia said , " Our immediate goal is to conduct the upcoming Champions League Twenty20 event successfully in Mohali next month. " Remembering his association with Bindra , PCA secretary M P Pandove said , " He played a big role in marketing the game successfully in India. Both the World Cup 's that India hosted , whether it was the 1987 World Cup or the 1996 World Cup , it was Bindra along with ( Jagmohan ) Dalmiya who ensured that rights were awarded to the Indian sub-continent , " Pandove reflected . " Similarly , he also played a big role in opening up the Indian cricket television market when he was the board president from 1993 to 1996. His tenure as board president was used only to promote the game , not to fill the coffers as a status symbol , " he added . Bindra has always been a straight-talker and a fierce critic of the current Indian cricket board including present International Cricket Council president N Srinivasan. He had asked the ICC 's executive board to investigate Srinivasan for allegedly violating the ethics of the game 's governing body . Bindra had said in July that Srinivasan should have resigned from the BCCI long back and added that his continuation as chief of India 's cricket body had brought Indian cricket to a " sorry state " . The 70-year-old remembered the good times with PCA after stepping down . " Our best moment , even if the most anxious one , was the 2011 World Cup semifinal when the prime ministers of India and Pakistan landed up in Mohali to witness the match and in the end everyone praised the arrangements. Every important visitor had nice things to say about our facilities and organization , " Bindra reminisced . For Bindra , the three most satisfying things were Punjab winning the Ranji Trophy in 1992-93 , the construction of the PCA stadium in Mohali and PCA getting the best-run association award from BCCI for four years . Besides playing key roles in the BCCI and PCA , Bindra was also ICC 's principal adviser when Sharad Pawar was its president. Interestingly , in all his years as a cricket administrator he never had to contest an election to stay in office . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
