3rd Test : Cook back in form as England reach 247/2 after Ballance ton The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Jul 27 , 2014 , 05.46PM IST England ’ s captain Alastair Cook hits a shot during play on the first day of the third cricket Test match. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SOUTHAMPTON : Skipper Alastair Cook marked his return to form with a dogged 95 while youngster Gary Ballance hit his second successive century as England reached a comfortable 247 for two against India on the opening day of the third cricket Test , here today . The highlight of the day was Cook 's dour batting after getting reprieve on 15 when Ravindra Jadeja dropped a sitter at third slip off debutant Pankaj Singh 's bowling . Cook , who missed out on a 26th Test century by five runs , has now gone without a three-figure mark in 29 consecutive innings . Once he got a 'life ' , decided to grind it out as he played 231 balls hitting nine fours frustrating a pedestrian Indian attack in the process . Cook added 158 runs with the in-form Ballance who struck his third Test century , and second on trot against the visitors remaining unbeaten on 104 at the end of day 's play . At stumps on a rather disappointing day for Indians , veteran Ian Bell gave Ballance company , batting on 16 . It was Jadeja who got rid of the England skipper after frustrating him with a packed leg-side field. Cook in his bid to pull got a faint nick as Dhoni took a smart catch down leg-side. The England captain did n't seem too amused with umpire Marais Erasmus ' decision but returned to a standing ovation from the spectators having gone through one of the toughest phases in his international career . The Indian bowlers did n't get much help from the Ageas Bowl strip with only debutant Pankaj , who was inducted after Ishant Sharma opted out due to ankle injury , looking good in patches . Pankaj ( 0/62 in 20 overs ) bowled some lovely deliveries including the one which Cook edged to Jadeja , who failed to latch onto a ball that was eminently catchable . With the second new ball , he produced a delivery that swung from leg to middle to trap Ian Bell in-front but umpire Rod Tucker did n't seem interested . Mohammed Shami ( 1/62 ) got Sam Robson 's wicket but was the most disappointing of the pace trio erring in length on a number of occasions . Ballance on his part hit 15 boundaries in his 204 ball unbeaten knock . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
