ACC , Asia Cup future under cloud The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | May 28 , 2014 , 11.06AM IST ICC 's intention was communicated to the ACC members in a meeting of the body in Chennai on Tuesday . Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : The future of the Asian Cricket Council ( ACC ) is in doubt. According to sources in the Asian body , the ICC wants the regional bodies of world cricket - Asia , Asia Pacific , Europe , Africa and America to be disbanded . ICC 's intention was communicated to the ACC members in a meeting of the body in Chennai on Tuesday . " The ICC gives money to these bodies for the development of cricket in the respective zones. But England Cricket Board and Cricket Australia feel that the money needed for development of the different countries need not be routed through these bodies , " an ACC source told TOI . The ACC members feel that such a move has been mooted by Australia and England because the European and the Asia Pacific bodies do n't have much function . " These bodies are virtually redundant. But ACC is a much more active body and most of the development in cricket in recent times has been in Asia , " the source said , citing the example of Afghanistan , UAE and Nepal . At present the ACC gets 50 % of the development funds of the ICC , which amounts to $ 6m annually . " The ICC is going through a churning process at the moment and we have to see how things shape up in their annual meeting in June when N Srinivasan takes over as the new chairman , " the source added. Srinivasan , who is the head of ACC , chaired Monday 's meeting . The ACC is the only body outside ICC which organises an ODI tournament -the Asia Cup -involving Test playing nations . The members are not sure about the future of the Asia Cup if ACC is disbanded. " One of ACC 's prime objectives is the smooth running of the Asia Cup , which we have done over the years. We are not sure about the future of the tournament , " the source added . Meanwhile , the annual accounts of the ACC were passed in the meeting and Srinivasan will be in Kuala Lumpur at the end of June for the AGM of the Asian body. From there , he will fly out to Australia for the annual ICC meeting . PCB hopes for Indo-Pak series in 2014 : Badar Khan , the accounts officer of PCB who was present in the meeting , said that they are hoping bilateral ties between India and Pakistan will start very soon . " The response from the BCCI has been positive and we hope that we will play India very soon , " Khan said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
