Alastair Cook keeps celebrations simple The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 19 , 2014 , 10.52AM IST Cook felt it had been more satisfying to have won the series in India in 2012. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : One thing you can say about Alastair Cook is that he is a nice bloke. The England captain , who admitted on Sunday that he would have quit had it not been for the encouragement from his wife Alice , led the celebrations after his side came from behind to thrash India 3-1 and retain the Pataudi Trophy . And true to his style , Cook kept in simple and dignified. After a brief demonstration of euphoria on the field and posing for a group photo with the trophy , Cook led his players on a lap of honour around The Oval arena. A good Sunday crowd gave Cook and his boys a loud cheer as they waved and clapped in acknowledgement . It was a far cry from England 's Ashes celebration here last summer when the trio of Kevin Pietersen , Stuart Broad and James Anderson had urinated on The Oval pitch while having a celebratory drink after the fourth Test against Australia ended in a draw , signalling an Ashes win for the home team . Cook , who went through a tough time in the five-Test series , disclosed that he always believed that England would bounce back . " I had a lot of confidence in the talent and amount of skill we had in the dressing-room. I did n't think we 'd win quite so emphatically , as we have done , " Cook said after the match . " Southampton was clearly a turning point for us , to finally get the win. Once we won there , we decided that was how we wanted to play our cricket against these guys , " Cook added . " Credit to the five bowlers for the way they 've bowled -because with sustained periods of pressure , we did n't let them get away from us. " Cook felt it had been more satisfying to have won the series in India in 2012. " I still think winning in India was an amazing achievement. So I 'm going to rank that one higher. But that still should n't take away from the way we 've played these last three games , " he said . The most pleasing aspect of England 's victory over India was the manner in which his team dominated Dhoni 's boys . " They did n't get more than 150 in four innings , and all our batters scored runs , so it 's almost like perfect games , " he added . Record on Anderson 's mind Man-of-the-Series James Anderson revealed that the controversy surrounding his spat with India 's Ravindra Jadeja had made him more determined to perform on the field . " At Southampton , when the stuff was going on around before and after the game... we were so focused on winning that game , and since then we 've not let India back into the series , " said Anderson , who , however , admitted to feeling the pressure of being only four wickets shy of going past Ian Botham 's tally of 383 Test wickets. It will be an amazing thing if I do get there. Right now the talk is driving me mad. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
