Amla poised to lead South Africa into new Test era The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Jul 15 , 2014 , 04.35PM IST Hashim Amla replaces the colossus Graeme Smith , who led the side for a decade and elevated them to the number one Test ranking in world cricket. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CAPE TOWN : South African Test cricket will usher in a new era under captain Hashim Amla on Wednesday when the country 's first permanent non-white skipper leads the side out against Sri Lanka in Galle . Top order batsman Amla replaces the colossus Graeme Smith , who led the side for a decade and elevated them to the number one Test ranking in world cricket , a status they only recently lost to Australia . Both men share similar traits regarding their will to win but in terms of personality , it would be hard to find two people from more opposite ends of the spectrum . Smith was bullish , controversial and his bristling self-confidence often mistaken for arrogance. He was a born leader . Amla , a devout Muslim , has a quiet demeanour , comes across as a little too humble at times and has shied away from leadership positions in limited-overs formats in recent years . That has led to him being known in the South African dressing room as the 'Silent Warrior' . The 31-year-old was initially not in the running to replace Smith with the job looking secure for vice-captain AB de Villiers , who was groomed for the role by former coach Gary Kirsten after being handed the captaincy for the one-day side . However , doubts over De Villiers ' ability to keep wicket , lead the side and be a batting mainstay led selectors to opt for Amla instead . The latter 's role will be to nurture a side that has lost some major talent and big personalities in the recent past . Apart from Smith , all-rounder Jacques Kallis and wicketkeeper-batsman Mark Boucher have also retired - in many ways the spine of the test side for the past 15 years . GOOD FORM Where Amla and Smith are similar is that both lead by example on the field , the weight of their runs and ability to turn in match-winning performances earning them respect the world over . Amla also comes into the first match of the two-test series in good form gained during a spell with English County Surrey , where , ironically , he replaced Smith after the latter injured his knee . His scores of 109 , 101 and 48 from as an opener in the three-match ODI series , won by South Africa ahead of the Tests , highlights his fine touch , but were achieved without the burden of captaincy . That will be the biggest worry for the South African selectors with Amla and De Villiers now the two batsmen expected to get most of the runs for the team . It was never a problem for Smith . In fact , he revelled in the responsibility of scoring important runs for the side at his opening position and his strength of character allowed him to do that . Amla 's mental strength is less obvious , but should not be discounted. His shoulders are less broad , his personality less fierce but he remains a warrior . The Sri Lanka Tests are South Africa 's first since the 2-1 home series defeat by Australia in March . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
