Andrew Flintoff 's comeback bid on hold The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jun 6 , 2014 , 01.28PM IST Flintoff was forced to quit in 2009 , his ankles and knees having repeatedly suffered from the pounding they took as he charged in. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Andrew Flintoff 's much-talked about return to county cricket wo n't take place this week after he was left out of Lancashire 's squad to play Yorkshire in a Twenty20 match at Old Trafford on Friday . Last week saw Lancashire announce that the 36-year-old all-rounder was back in their Twenty20 squad five years after the former England captain 's injury-induced retirement . But after he took scored just 16 and took two wickets but leaked 39 runs in a second XI T20 defeat by Leicestershire at Arundel on Thursday , Flintoff was omitted from the senior Lancashire squad announced for the 'Roses ' match , with the side bidding for their fifth straight win in this season 's competition . England great Ian Botham warned Flintoff was making a " massive mistake " in coming out of retirement . Flintoff , like Botham a pace bowling all-rounder and ex-England captain , was forced to quit in 2009 , his ankles and knees having repeatedly suffered from the pounding they took as he charged in . " While I wish him all the very best , I think he is making a massive mistake , " Botham wrote in a recent Daily Mirror column . " We 've not seen Fred on a cricket field since those memorable days in 2009 -- and five years is a long time out of the game . " Unless he 's managed to swap knees with someone , I do n't know how it has suddenly got better , allowing him to tear in and play the game properly. " But after playing for club side St Annes last weekend , Flintoff tweeted : " Thanks for your concerns @ BeefyBotham but being happy is never a mistake ! " A powerful batsman and aggressive bowler , Flintoff 's best series was when he scored 402 runs and took 24 wickets as England regained the Ashes 2-1 in 2005 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
