Andrew Strauss in Kevin Pietersen swearing storm The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jul 5 , 2014 , 09.54PM IST Strauss reportedly used a particularly obscene epithet to describe Pietersen. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Former England captain Andrew Strauss found himself involved in a fresh row regarding Kevin Pietersen after making highly offensive comments about his former Test colleague while broadcasting on Saturday . Sky Sports commentator Strauss , believing he was off the air in a break in play during the Lord 's bicentenary match between MCC and the Rest of the World , reportedly used a particularly obscene epithet to describe Pietersen . But although Strauss 's remarks were n't heard by Sky viewers , they were picked up on an overseas app receiving a continuous feed of the Sky commentary . A brief statement issued by Sky said : " Earlier comments were made during a break in play which were heard overseas. We apologise for the language used. " Pietersen , after making a match-saving hundred in a Test against his native South Africa at Headingley in 2012 , was briefly dropped from the England team after sending text messages said to contain derogatory references to Strauss to Proteas players . Strauss , twice an Ashes-winning captain , retired following South Africa 's 2-0 win in that series . The former opening batsman insisted at the time , however , that he had not quit as a result of the comments made by Pietersen , his predecessor as England captain . However , he did say in retirement : " I was n't all that bothered about him ( Pietersen ) sending texts to the South African players that he knew quite well . " I did , however , have issues with him criticising me to the opposition. " That felt like talking out of school , not to mention giving the opposition a way to drive a wedge between Pietersen and myself and the team . " And if he really had given information about how to get me out , well that amounted to treachery and I would never forgive him . " I am confident , in retrospect , that he did not give the South Africans information on how to get me out . " The nagging frustration I still have is that all of that time , effort and commitment from our players over a three-year period to make our environment special and different was undermined in one episode. " Pietersen was subsequently restored to the England team. But following England 's recent 5-0 Ashes thrashing in Australia , the England and Wales Cricket Board effectively ended the 34-year-old Pietersen 's international career -- even though he is England 's all-time leading run-scorer across all formats -- in what they said was a move designed to support current captain Alastair Cook . Pietersen said Friday he still harboured hopes of an England return but playing for the Rest of the World against an equally star-studded MCC side on Saturday he did little to advance his cause by being stumped for 10 off Pakistan off-spinner Saeed Ajmal . In Pietersen 's absence , England were beaten 1-0 at home to Sri Lanka in a two-Test series last month . England begin a five-Test series at home to India at Nottingham 's Trent Bridge ground on Wednesday . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
