Ashwin takes cue from England-Sri Lanka series The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Jun 18 , 2014 , 07.02AM IST Ashwin felt not many players would carry the scars from India 's previous tours. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : With a long and tough England tour looming , Ravichandran Ashwin said on Tuesday his preparations were on track but he needed to be " smart " in his approach and avoid " desperation " . He also said he was picking up cues from the performance of the Sri Lankan side presently in England. India will be playing a five-Test series after having been hammered 0-4 in England last time around . " I have n't planned anything but I have charted some preparation and it 's going well , " Ashwin said . " I 'm just going to go and enjoy my game because I do n't think desperation works. I have to be smart about what I 'm doing. I 've been watching the England-Sri Lanka series , and since Lanka is a sub-continental team like us , I am trying to see what advantage I can take of what is existing there. Although ( Rangana ) Herath is a left-arm spinner and I 'm an off-spinner , I 'm trying to pick up what he had to offer , " Ashwin said . Ashwin felt not many players would carry the scars from India 's previous tours . " Our batsmen did well in the IPL. We have no baggage to carry. We 'll just look to enjoy our game. It 's important , though , to start well. If we can jot down something from our tour games , it will be good , " he felt . It was also an emotional day for Ashwin 's father. While recalling his son 's initial journey in cricket during a special event for Father 's Day , the senior Ashwin chocked. For Ravichandran , a Railways employee , cricket was a dream which he fulfilled through his son . " Due to our financial conditions , I was n't able to be a cricketer. However , I did n't want Ashwin to miss out. Even his mother wanted him to play for India , " said Ravichandran , before almost breaking down . He later complimented his son , who is a qualified engineer , saying : " He is a bold , intelligent guy. He is tough to compete with. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
