Aussies must learn to play in India : Greg Chappell The author has posted comments on this article Sunil Subbaiah , TNN | Aug 11 , 2014 , 10.45AM IST Chappell feels neglect of spinners at the domestic level is ruining the Australian spinners. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BANGALORE : Cricket Australia 's National Talent Manager Greg Chappell said exposing their young players to the rigors of Indian conditions will help better prepare their national team in its quest to improve their dismal record in the sub-continent . The former India coach , who is in the city as part of the Australian development squad 's overseas training exercise at the KSCA Alur facility , said the exposure trips were vital for Australia to play consistently in the sub-continent . " The best way to learn is to play in different conditions. As we saw with the Australian Test squad , a team that was on the verge of being very successful came here and got beaten 4-0 , " said Chappell referring to Australia 's series defeat against hosts India last year . Australia have a woeful record in the Indian sub-continent. Following their 2-0 Test series win over Bangladesh in 2006 , Australia have played 13 Tests here , winning just one in 2011 against hosts Sri Lanka . " Conditions are very different from the ones in which our players grow up. We 've identified that batting against spin is an issue and that bowling spin is a problem in Australian cricket. To expose our young spinners and batsmen to these conditions is important , " added the 66-year-old South Australian . Chappell said he was in talks with National Cricket Academy director Brijesh Patel to organise reciprocal programs for players and coaches of both nations . " A reciprocal arrangement is something that we may need to think about in future. We were talking with Brijesh ( Patel ) about doing some reciprocal programs for our players and coaches. We will bring players and coaches here and NCA will do likewise , " said the veteran of 87 Tests and 74 ODI 's . Chappell feels neglect of spinners at the domestic level is ruining the Australian spinners , which , in turn , is the reason for the dearth of top-class talent . " We did n't make it a priority. We allowed the system to throw up whatever it threw up and unfortunately it did n't include a lot of spin bowlers. Nathan Lyon 's a fine bowler. History will show that he 's quite a successful spin bowler. Australia does n't have a great history of finger spin. You could name on one hand the top finger spinners we 've had in the last 100 years. Ashley Mallett is probably the stand-out candidate , Tim May was a good foil to Shane Warne , " he said . " Finger spin is not much of a factor in Australia. But wrist spin is. Historically we 've always had wrist spinners. We 've made it a priority to start unearthing young spin bowlers , " he added . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
