Axed Pietersen had no support from senior players : Downton The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | May 23 , 2014 , 04.34PM IST The controversial batsman Pietersen 's England career was ended in February. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Kevin Pietersen had no support from senior players in the dressing room prior to his sacking by England in the wake of the 5-0 Ashes thrashing by Australia , according to England managing director Paul Downton . The controversial batsman 's England career was ended in February when he was left out of World Twenty20 in Bangladesh and the preceding tour of the West Indies . Downton , who was instrumental in the decision to end Pietersen 's international career , said the batsman had become " disinterested " on the pitch and that Australian captain Michael Clarke had " played him like a schoolboy " . " There was an enormous amount of frustration surrounding KP from everyone in the management team in terms of his attitude and whether he was really fighting it out , " Downton told BBC 's Test Match Special programme . " There was a feeling KP was n't engaged in the way he should be. I talked to quite a few senior players and could n't find one supporter who wanted KP to stay in the side. " Downton said he was shocked at Pietersen 's performance in the fifth test in Sydney which England lost by 281 runs with Pietersen contributing only nine runs . " I watched every ball and I 've never seen anyone as disinterested or distracted on a cricket field as Kevin , " he said. " It led me to talk to every person on the management team within England and a lot outside it . " I then spent the next three weeks speaking to more people but the decision we came to was in the best interests of English cricket. I 'm not saying all that happened in Australia was down to KP , team dynamics disintegrate when you 're under pressure. " Pietersen played 104 test matches for England , averaging 47 , but managed only two half centuries in the five tests in Australia. Downton said Pietersen 's refusal to dig in for the team and a series of soft dismissals hastened the end . " It was frustrating seeing him with his 'this is the way I play ' type attitude ' " , Downton said. " Clarke played him like a schoolboy almost. " England 's Ashes debacle also led to coach Andy Flower leaving along with batting coach Graham Gooch while spinner Graeme Swann retired before the end of the series . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
