BCCI calls emergency meeting on April 20 The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Apr 18 , 2014 , 12.38AM IST A majority of the BCCI units had written to interim president Shivlal Yadav to summon a Working Committee meeting to discuss the entire issue . Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : The Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) sent out a notice on Thursday for an emergent Working Committee meeting to be held at its headquarters in Mumbai on Sunday ( 3pm ) to discuss the course of action in wake of the Supreme Court 's directive . The apex court on Wednesday had directed the BCCI to file a reply by April 22 on how it plans to hold an inquiry into the role of 13 individuals , including N Srinivasan , in betting and spot-fixing issues in IPL 6 . With the Supreme Court making it clear that it did not want to interfere with the cricket board 's autonomy and would prefer a full-fledged internal inquiry by its own panel into the allegations against these individuals listed by the Justice Mukul Mudgal committee , the ball is now in BCCI 's court . A majority of the BCCI units had written to interim president Shivlal Yadav on Wednesday to summon a Working Committee meeting to discuss the entire issue before the reply is filed before the court. Bowing to pressure from the units , and with Srinivasan finally out of the way , Yadav directed secretary Sanjay Patel to call an emergent meeting of the Working Committee , the most powerful decision-making arm of the board . Srinivasan , of course , can not be part of the meeting as he has been directed by the Supreme Court to keep away from BCCI matters till the probe is completed. In Srinivasan 's absence , senior BCCI members like Rajeev Shukla ( VP , North ) , Jagmohan Dalmiya ( CAB ) and MP Pandove ( Punjab ) are likely to take the lead in charting the course of action . Dalmiya , who was appointed as the caretaker of the BCCI when Srinivasan had stepped aside in June last year , welcomed BCCI 's move. " I am happy that better sense has prevailed and an emergent Working Committee meeting has been convened by the BCCI. In fact , there are some issues of serious nature that need to be discussed at the earliest . " It can not be denied that the image of the BCCI has taken a beating of late. Therefore , it is of paramount importance to ensure that the BCCI 's image is restored in the eyes of the cricket loving public of India , " Dalmiya said in a statement on Thursday . Efforts are also on to persuade former presidents Sharad Pawar , IS Bindra and Shashank Manohar to attend the crucial meeting that could well determine the very future of the Indian cricket board that has been mired in controversies over the past 11 months. It is unlikely that Pawar will be available as he is busy with election campaign , but there is every chance that other senior members could come together to lead the BCCI out of the crisis . A section of the members are of the opinion that the probe should be conducted by a three or five-member panel comprising eminent persons of impeccable reputation who have no truck with the BCCI . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
