BCCI looks to formalize Srinivasan 's return The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Sep 26 , 2014 , 10.57AM IST East Zone members hold the key to Srinivasan 's return to power because it 's the East 's term to propose and second the name of the president for the new term. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : N Srinivasan wo n't be there in person but he will once again be the centre of attraction as the Indian cricket board 's ( BCCI ) working committee meets on Friday . The support for the Tamil Nadu strongman is beyond doubt and the 24-member body of the board will take all possible measures to make it a smooth return for Srinivasan at the helm . The Justice Mudgal committee , which is probing the BCCI spot-fixing scandal , has been given a deadline till Nov 2 by SC and Srinivasan can only come back to power if he is given a clean chit by the panel . The BCCI , therefore , will formally propose to postpone the date of the AGM after the report is submitted. As per the BCCI constitution , the AGM was supposed to take place by Sept 30 but BCCI members argued that the financial documents can only be signed by the democratically elected president Srinivasan and not the interim boss Shivlal Yadav . East Zone members hold the key to Srinivasan 's return to power because it 's the East 's term to propose and second the name of the president for the new term . Cricket Association of Bengal ( CAB ) and National Cricket Club ( NCC ) are in the working committee but interestingly all the eastern units have been invited to be present in the Friday gathering . The six units had already pledged their support for Srinivasan verbally in an informal meeting of the members on Sept 7 and the issue might be formalized on the sidelines of the working committee meeting . A few cricket issues will also be discussed , with Ravi Shastri 's appointment as the team director being prime on the agenda. The BCCI wants to use him selectively till the World Cup and it 's understood that the members will give the go-ahead . Shastri 's report on the Indian team during the ODIs in England will also be discussed and a on the basis of that report a decision on the coaching staff will be taken . The two foreign coaches , Trevor Penney and Joe Dawes will be asked to serve out their contract at the National Cricket Academy in Bangalore. Duncan Fletcher , though , will stay with the team as the coach till the end of the World Cup . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
