BCCI ready to accept RCA-free Rajasthan The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Aug 25 , 2014 , 10.47AM IST There is the option of some of the players signing up for other teams for the domestic season , but BCCI feels that is no solution at all . Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : The Rajasthan Cricket Association ( RCA ) may have been banned but the BCCI does n't want the players of the state to face the music . The Board sources indicated that they would be happy to include a Rajasthan XI for the Board organized tournaments , provided the Rajasthan State Sports Act permits that . " We have nothing against the players and we want them to play. But the Rajasthan State Sports Act does not permit the use of term 'Rajasthan'. The matter has to be settled soon for the sake of Rajasthan players , " a source close to the developments pointed out . It was told that BCCI has an ad-hoc committee that can look into the matter , but for that a few legal hurdles have to be crossed. The Board is ready to go the extra mile to ensure that for the players , provided RCA is kept out of the equation . " There 's no way there can be a team under Rajasthan Cricket Association. Beyond that , we are ready to do anything for the players , " the source added . There is the option of some of the players signing up for other teams for the domestic season , but BCCI feels that is no solution at all . " Of course there are some top players ( like Robin Bist and Pankaj Singh ) who will easily get other teams. But it ca n't happen for all players. The home players of other states might not be too happy either with that arrangement , " the source said , adding that only three 'guest players ' can be accommodated in every state side . The last date of submitting the form for inter-state transfer is September 1 and time is also running out for the Rajasthan players . " It 's a matter of grave concern. We hope a solution is reached soon , " the source added . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
