BCCI to appeal Ravindra Jadeja fine The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 26 , 2014 , 05.42AM IST Ravindra Jadeja had been fined 10 % of his match fee for abusing Shane Watson in the final ODI against Australia in Bangalore on November 2 last year. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SOUTHAMPTON : The Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) is peeved with match referee David Boon 's decision to fine Ravindra Jadeja 50 % of his match fee after finding him guilty of committing a Level 1 breach of the ICC Code of Conduct for Players and Player Support Personnel on Friday . Boon , who was the match referee in the first Test at Trent Bridge , penalized Jadeja for his involvement in an incident with England 's James Anderson on the second day ( July 10 ) of the Test . " The BCCI wishes to make it clear that it is not satisfied with the verdict. The BCCI reserves its right to appeal against the sentence. The BCCI believes that Mr Ravindra Jadeja was not at fault , and supports him fully , " a statement issued by board secretary Sanjay Patel said . According to ICC regulations , all first-time Level 1 offences are non-appealable. However , as it is the second time in 12 months that Jadeja has been found guilty , the BCCI can appeal. The BCCI has 48 hours — from the time it gets a written copy of Boon 's verdict — to file its appeal . For the record , Jadeja had been fined 10 % of his match fee for abusing Shane Watson in the final ODI against Australia in Bangalore on November 2 last year . Interestingly , Boon found Jadeja not guilty of the offence which he was originally charged with , but found him guilty under Article 2.1.8 , that relates to 'conduct contrary to the spirit of the game'. " While I was in no doubt that confrontation did occur , and that such conduct was not in the spirit of the game and should not have taken place , I was not comfortably satisfied that this was a Level 2 offence , " Boon said in a statement . " Therefore , in exercising my discretion under article 7.6.5 of the code and having heard all the evidence , I was comfortably satisfied that Mr Jadeja had committed a Level 1 offence under article 2.1.8 of the code. " All Level 1 breaches carry a minimum penalty of an official reprimand and a maximum penalty of 50 per cent of a player 's match fee. Boon held a hearing in Southampton on Thursday evening which was attended by both Jadeja and Anderson , their legal counsels , witnesses as well as BCCI 's MV Sridhar , Phil Neale and Paul Downton of the ECB , and the ICC 's Ethics & Regulatory Lawyer . The hearing lasted nearly 150 minutes before Boon and included oral statements by the players , video footage and cross-examination of the witnesses by Kendrah Potts , counsel representing the ECB , and Jonathan Ellis , who represented Jadeja . Meanwhile , Anderson 's hearing will be held on August 1 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
