Bhuvneshwar swings it , but Test in Ballance The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 19 , 2014 , 10.06AM IST Bhuvneshwar repeatedly probed England batsmen outside their off-stump before reaping the dividends. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : At a venue where they have traditionally struggled , Team India won four of the first five sessions before England No. 3 Gary Ballance compelled attention with a sparkling century to leave the second Test at Lord 's tantalizingly poised . With a hot afternoon sun sucking out all the juice and leaving the pitch bereft of greenery , Indian bowlers could derive no lateral movement but fortune swung prodigiously every session before leaving India with a slender advantage . At close on Day 2 , England were unhappily placed at 219/6 -76 runs behind India 's first innings tally of 295 -after having lost Ballance ( 110 ) and Moeen Ali ( 32 ) to casual strokes . Ballance and Ali had wrested initiative back from India with a 98-run partnership for the fifth wicket but were also responsible for throwing it away . The dismissals of Ballance , who got a faint tickle to a Bhuvneshwar Kumar delivery down the leg side after notching up his second consecutive hundred at Lord 's , and Ali , who failed to read part-timer Murali Vijay 's innocuous off-spin , left Matt Prior ( 2 ) , Liam Plunkett ( 4 ) and the remaining English batsmen with the task of negotiating the second new ball that is just six overs old and get the team a substantial first innings lead to cushion the pangs of having to bat last in the match . Indian players had a good day in office. On a pitch that appeared to have grown bald and brown overnight , Bhuvneshwar led the Indian attack and repeatedly probed England batsmen outside their off-stump before reaping the dividends . Bhuvi , who had bowled his heart out on a lifeless track at Trent Bridge to grab five wickets , bowled a nagging off-stump line to frustrate Alastair Cook. The captain showed no signs of returning to form as he hung out his bat to one from Bhuvi that left him a shade and Dhoni did the rest. Cook 's latest failure could have far-reaching consequences on his career . Mohammad Shami , who consistently bowled a touch short in his opening spell , should have had the scalp of Sam Robson had Ajinkaya Rahane held on to a regulation edge at second slip even on his second attempt or Ravindra Jadeja scooped it up on the rebound. Robson , then on eight , could not make it count , giving Bhuvi his second wicket and leaving England two down for 51 at lunch . There was no change in England 's fortunes in the second session with Ishant Sharma , who fired in a wild 'wide ' in his first over , kept the pressure up by hitting the pads on a couple of occasions and Stuart Binny too bowling an attacking line . Binny , in fact , could have picked up his maiden wicket had either Dhoni or Shikhar Dhawan made an attempt to catch the ball instead of merely looking at each other . England 's misery was compounded soon after as the experienced Ian Bell was taken by Jadeja at third slip after the ball went off the gloves of the batsman , whose last-minute attempt to sway out of a Bhuvi delivery went in vain . And when the prolific Joe Root was trapped in front of his stumps by a quicker one from Jadeja , England slipped to 113 for four. But Ballance and Ali took full toll of a tiring attack and an old ball to revive England. Till Bhuvi struck again with the new ball . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
