Bhuvneshwar takes a 6/82 as England take slender first innings lead The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jul 19 , 2014 , 06.11PM IST India 's Bhuvneshwar Kumar celebrates taking the wicket of England 's Ben Stokes during the third day of the second Test at Lord 's Cricket Ground in London. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Bhuvneshwar Kumar troubled the England batsmen with his swing bowling finishing with career best figures of six for 82 as India managed to bowl out the hosts for 319 thereby conceding a 24-run first innings lead . At lunch , India were 11 for no loss with a minor deficit of 13 runs that needs to be wiped out. Shikhar Dhawan ( 10 batting ) and Murali Vijay ( 0 batting ) safely negotiated the four overs before lunch . Earlier , Bhuvneshwar 's second successive five-for figures helped him get his name on the prestigious Lord 's 'Honours Board ' after his teammate Ajinkya Rahane got his name up there on the first day . The UP seamer 's figures were second best by an Indian after Amar Singh 's 6/35 at the hallowed ground back in 1936 . Ravindra Jadeja ( 2-46 ) , Moahmmad Shami ( 1-58 ) and Murali Vijay ( 1-12 ) were the other wicket-takers for India in this innings . On a pitch where Bhuvneshwar troubled the batsmen with his moving deliveries , his senior partner Ishant Sharma went wicketless after bowling 24 overs. While a few deliveries did beat the bat , the lanky seamer was guilty of not making the batsmen play on a quite a few occasions . The morning began with England still adrift by 76 runs and only 4 wickets remaining . There was a deep cloud cover over the ground and flood lights were switched on within the first hour of play. With the second new ball only 6 overs old from the previous evening , the Indian bowlers would have been licking their lips . However Shami and Ishant were poor in their initial spells , losing all discipline from Friday as they erred in line as well as length . It allowed Matt Prior ( 23 runs , 42 balls , 4 fours ) and Liam Plunkett ( 55 not out , 79 balls , 8 fours ) to score quickly and they did , hitting 8 boundaries in the morning , as they brought up their 50-run partnership off only 74 balls in the 95th over . It looked like India might squander away their advantage but that is when Prior top-edged one off Shami and Shikhar Dhawan ran back from first-slip to complete a stunning catch . It sparked off a mini-collapse as Kumar came on to bowl and dismissed Ben Stokes ( 0 ) and Stuart Broad ( 4 ) quickly in the 99th over. England had lost 3 wickets for 15 runs in the space of 26 balls . Plunkett soldiered on and in the company of James Anderson ( 19 runs , 21 balls , 3 fours ) added 39 runs for the last wicket . He completed his maiden Test fifty in the 105th over , with the English 300-run mark coming up an over earlier. Anderson was then accounted for by Jadeja in the next over bringing a close to their first innings . On Day one , Ajinkya Rahane 's second Test ton helped India recover from 145/7 at one stage to 295 runs in their first innings. He scored 103 runs and added 90 runs for the 8th wicket with Kumar ( 36 ) to guide his team to safety. James Anderson , playing under allegations of physical abuse against Ravindra Jadeja , took 4-60 . On Day two , Gary Ballance struck his second Test hundred in four matches to help his side reach 219/6 at stumps in reply to India 's total. The first Test at Nottingham ended in a draw . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
