Big win ensures Mumbai Indians stay alive The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Sep 15 , 2014 , 01.18PM IST Mumbai Indians will know exactly what they would require in order to clinch a berth in the main round. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 RAIPUR : Mumbai Indians were not totally on top of their game , but there was distinct improvement over their first match , especially in the batting department . That was enough to fetch them of a much-needed win by nine wickets over Southern Express to keep hopes of making it to the main round of the CLT20 alive . There were issues with their bowling and fielding , as Southern Express , after being inserted , ran up a total of 161. But openers Lendl Simmons and Michael Hussey found form at the right moment to lay the foundation of Mumbai Indians ' win with a superb 139-run stand . After the departure of Hussey for a well-made 60 , skipper Kieron Pollard finished off the match in a hurry in order to improve the net run rate. He clobbered a couple of sixes off left arm spinner Sachith Pathirana to help overhaul the target with 22 balls to spare . Mumbai Indians now have a good chance of taking one of the two berths in the main round from the qualifiers , especially after Lahore Lions , their torments in the opening game , lost to Northern Knights by a huge margin of 72. That has affected their net run rate quite substantially . After a rest day on Monday , Mumbai Indians will take on the leaders Northern Knights in the night match after Lions clash with Southern Express in the earlier game. By the time that match concludes , Mumbai Indians will know exactly what they would require in order to clinch a berth in the main round . With the big win Mumbai Indians have improved their net run rate while Lahore Lions ' has plummeted after being mauled by Knights in the earlier game. In case of a tie on points , Mumbai Indians would be expected to pip the other teams on NRR . Coach John Wright may not be happy with the performance of the bowlers and fielders , but surely the effort of the openers Simmons ( 72 not out from 51 balls ) and Hussey would have raised the confidence level of the team before the deciding match against Knights . Earlier , Express made a good recovery , adding 101 runs in the last 10 overs to put up a fighting total. Much of the damage was done by the lanky all-rounder Maharoof . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
