Statistics are something that really tease cricketers : Dhoni The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 9 , 2014 , 06.50AM IST Dhoni continued to indulge in a cat-and-mouse game with the media that left even British journalists bemused. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NOTTINGHAM : Indian captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni , who celebrated his 33rd birthday with his teammates at the hotel here on Monday , blamed lack of luck for the Indian team 's inability to force victory in recent matches despite being on top. By harping on the importance of the process rather than the results , Dhoni continued to indulge in a cat-and-mouse game with the media that left even British journalists bemused . Following are excerpts from the series-eve media interaction with the Indian captain : On his young side winning just one of the last 15 away Tests Statistics are something that really teases cricketers. You can play around with it a lot. In the last two Test series that we played abroad , in South Africa and New Zealand , our performance was really good even though we lost both. We were in a position to win both series. So , between the first Test in South Africa and the last Test in New Zealand , there has been considerable improvement . On the importance of winning abroad consistently I have always maintained that the process is more important than the result. What is important for us is to take the team forward and give the players the right guidance so that they get the exposure to do well outside . On his team 's inability to close out matches In cricket , you need the luck to be on your side. At times we have missed a genuine seam-bowling all-rounder , so we have had to play three pacers and a spinner. At times , edges went past the fielders ; sometimes rival batsmen batted for one-and-a-half days to save a Test . Whether Stuart Binny can be a bowling all-rounder Stuart is someone who can bowl a bit and bat as well. If we can give him enough chances and groom him , then he can do that job for us. He may not be as good as Kallis , but he certainly can bowl 10 overs and bat a bit . On the pressure on Ishant to lead the attack As far as Ishant is concerned , he is bowling well. It 's very important for him to get into a good rhythm as he is someone who can get a bit more bounce than others . On dealing with pressures of captaincy One way is to not read newspapers and avoid watching television. But as captain , you will be asked these questions. It 's best to ignore these things and focus on taking the team in the right direction . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
