Cheteshwar Pujara praises spinner Akshar Patel The author has posted comments on this article Ajit Bezbaruah , TNN | May 29 , 2014 , 11.04PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AHMEDABAD : Indian Test batsman Cheteshwar Pujara was all praise for his Kings XI Punjab ( KXIP ) teammate Akshar Patel who has been drafted into the India squad for the Bangladesh ODI series . Pujara said the left-arm spinner had done really well in IPL and hoped the T20 event would have prepared him well for the international grind . " He has performed really well during the IPL. He has been one of the go-to bowlers for us. With the IPL experience I hope he will be able to do well even in ODI format. He is young and has got an opportunity...so let us see how it goes , " said Pujara . Pujara was talking to reporters ahead of KXIP 's second Qualifier against Chennai Super Kings ( CSK ) in Mumbai on Thursday. With India touring England next month most of the questions revolved around that tour and Pujara said that the two warm-up games that the Mahendra Singh Dhoni-led team would play before the five-Test series against England would help the visitors adapt adequately to the conditions . " We have some time , that is a good thing. We have two practice games before the Test matches , so it is a positive thing for us. We have enough time for preparation , " he said . The England tour commences on June 26 with a three-day game in Leicester. The visitors are set to play another warm- up game against Derbyshire ( July 1-3 ) before the opening Test begins at Trent Bridge on July 9. Pujara , who has played only two one-day internationals ( ODIs ) and was also included in the team for next month 's three-match ODI series against Bangladesh , said the upcoming tour would provide good , competitive cricket . " Hopefully , I will get a game this time. It is a good opportunity for all the young players who are part of this tour. Playing against Bangladesh in their home conditions wo n't be that easy. Bangladesh is a good team. We have a young side so it will be competitive. " India would take on Bangladesh in Mirpur on June 15 , 17 and 19 and the selectors have rested several regulars from the team , including Dhoni. Suresh Raina will lead the side . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
