Clarke confident no corruption in Aussie team The author has posted comments on this article AFP | May 21 , 2014 , 01.32PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Captain Michael Clarke stressed Wednesday that no Australian teams he has played with have been involved in corruption , saying it was wrong for all cricketers to be tarred by match-fixing . The International Cricket Council has a long-running investigation into the scourge , and reports emerged this week that New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum had been asked to fix games . McCullum is not under investigation , but his evidence to the ICC 's anti-corruption unit leaked to Britain 's Daily Mail reveals he was approached by a " world renowned former cricketer " in 2008 . The Kiwi captain reportedly said that " Player X , whom he described as " a hero who became a friend " , offered him up to 107,000 pounds ( $ 180,000 ) to underperform in matches . " ( X ) said that the 'Big Boys ' in international cricket were doing it and he did n't want me to miss out , " the Mail reported him saying , with the first approach in Kolkata before the inaugural Indian Premier League and the second in England the same year . Clarke said Australian players were taught from a young age about corruption and what to be on the look-out for in terms of approaches and knew the difference between right and wrong . " I am extremely confident about the players that I 've played with , " he told reporters . " For this Australian team , they all know very clearly that there 's no room for corruption in our team. A big part of our job is to uphold the integrity of our sport and I think we do that well . " I can only talk about Australian players , but in this country we are very well educated and I 'm very happy , satisfied and confident that Australian players are making the right decisions. " Clarke refused to comment on individual players when asked about former New Zealand player Chris Cairns , who has acknowledged his name has been linked to Player X but denied any involvement with corruption or match-fixing . " I think everybody involved in the game is disappointed that things like this happen , but I want to pay credit to the ICC and Cricket Australia for the work they put in to try and stop this , " he said . " I do n't think we should be tarring all the players with the same brush. What we 've seen of late is it 's a minority that is dealing with these sort of issues. Like I say , I would be disappointed if the supporters and fans of cricket think that this is happening a lot more than it is. " " I do n't care who it is , I want to see it stamped out , " he added. Clarke , who said he had not picked up a bat for several months after a bruising tour of South Africa and seeing Australia reclaim the top spot in ICC Test rankings , said he was fully recovered . Paceman Ryan Harris , who underwent knee surgery after the series win in South Africa , said he too was on the road to full recovery , and " just about " walking normally for the first time in two years . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
