CLT20 : Chennai Super Kings prevail in run feast The author has posted comments on this article Vedam Jaishankar , TNN | Sep 23 , 2014 , 12.14PM IST Raina timed the ball gloriously and sixes and fours flowed off the meat of his bat to all sections of the ground. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BANGALORE : Dolphins ' top-order batsmen went for broke but the scorching pace set earlier by Chennai Super Kings ' Suresh Raina , in particular , Brendon McCullum , Ravindra Jadeja and Faf du Pleissis kept the key CLT20 league match beyond their reach at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium on Monday . Dolphins , chasing a stupendous target of 243 , had to throw everything at the opponents if they had to achieve the victory . The magnitude of the chase demanded that their batsmen had to be lucky all the time. But brave as their top order batsmen Cameroon Delport ( 34 ; 9b ) and Cody Chetty ( 38 ; 28b ) were , fortune simply did not favour them . They lost wickets at regular intervals to be bowled out for 188 and thereby went down by 54 runs . It was their second successive loss in the tournament while home team Chennai Super Kings are back in the reckoning for a shot at a spot in the last four . The match was all about the amazing pyrotechnics of the left handed Raina ( 90 ; 43b , 4x4 , 8x6 ) . He was not the one to let go of a superb opportunity to make use of a great batting track , hemmed in as it were by short boundaries . Right through his stay he looked in pristine touch and rarely ever needed to muscle his way through the Dolphins ' bowling. Instead , he timed the ball gloriously and sixes and fours flowed off the meat of his bat to all sections of the ground . With opener Brendon McCullum ( 49 ; 29b , 5x4 , 3x6 ) , he took the bowling by the scruff of the neck as CSK raced to register the fastest 100 ( 54 balls ) in CLT20 history . The second-wicket pair made a mockery of Dolphins tactical mistake of asking them to take first strike and two other batsman , Faf du Plessis ( 30 ; 19b , 3x4 , 1x6 ) and Ravindra Jadeja ( 40 n.o ; 14b , 3x4 , 3x6 ) too drove home the advantage to the unbridled joy of a good crowd . About the only thing that went right for the Dolphins was when their ploy of opening the bowling with left-arm spinner Keshav Maharaj paid off. He had Dwayne Smith caught in the deep off the fifth ball . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
