CLT20 : Kane Williamson canes Cape Cobras The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Sep 20 , 2014 , 11.56AM IST Williamson hit an unbeaten 101 off just 49 deliveries. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 RAIPUR : Kane Williamson set the Naya Raipur stadium alight with a blistering century on Friday night. His unbeaten 101 off just 49 deliveries was the first century in this year 's CLT20 . Williamson severely caned the Cape Cobras attack to help Northern Knights post a formidable 205 for five , the first time the 200-mark was breached at the venue . Northern Knights then had the Cobras struggling at 44 for two in 7.2 overs when rain stopped the match. With the par score being 77 at that stage , Knights emerged the winners by 33 runs by DL Method . Knights had dominated their rivals in three matches in the Qualifiers and Friday was no different , winning their Group B game with a comprehensive victory . With Hashim Amla already in the pavilion just before the play was halted by rain , was a big blow for the listless Cobras ' hopes and even if the play had resumed they looked incapable of a fightback . After being put in , Knights were given a rollicking start by Williamson and Anton Devcich as the depleted outfit from South Africa looked pretty rusty . Their pace attack without Dale Steyn just lacked the sting , especially as Vernon Philander and Rory Kleinveldt have just recovered from injuries. With the inform Knights openers having played a big part in their team 's entry into main round , were at their attacking best . The two put on 140 in just 13.4 overs ( 82 balls ) to lay the foundation of the big total. The two could have gone on and on , but unfortunately Devcich ( 67 , 46b , 8x4 , 1x6 ) was run out to a fine direct hit . Williamson was far from affected by the departure of his partner and went on to complete his century in the final over , when he hammered Philander over the covers for his fifth six off a free hit. He also struck 8 boundaries during his 49-ball knock which virtually took the game away from the Cobras . Thanks to Williamson 's effort , there were many firsts during the innings. It was the first time 200 runs were posted by a team at the venue which had hosted two Delhi Daredevils IPL matches last year and six CLT20 Qualifiers last week . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
