CLT20 : Kings lord over Knights , book place in semis The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Sep 27 , 2014 , 11.02AM IST Virender Sehwag of Kings XI Punjab raises his bat after scoring a half-century against Northern Knights during CLT20 match at Mohali on Friday. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MOHALI : The PCA stadium for Friday night 's doubleheader was not even half-full. But the ones who attended sure got their money 's worth. First , they witnessed a heart-stopping tied match between Cape Cobras and Barbados Tridents , which the former ultimately won in the Super Over . Then the crowd was treated to some delightful display of power hitting by the Kings XI Punjab batsmen. Put in to bat , the home team ran up the third-highest total - 215/5 - in CLT20 history . The task of attaining the daunting target proved a mountain to climb for Northern Knights and they fell 120 runs short of the target . With their third win in as many matches , KXIP ensured a berth in the semifinals from Group B , leaving the other four teams to fight it out for second spot . Hobart Hurricanes , who have won two of their three games and play Barbados Tridents here on Sunday afternoon , are now best placed to join KXIP in the semifinals , to be played in Hyderabad on October 2 . Cobras sting Tridents in thrilling Super Over Jonathan Carter registered not only his maiden century on Friday , but also the first-ever by a Barbados Tridents batsman in T20 cricket . But his effort was not enough for his team as they lost their Oppo CL T20 match against Cape Cobras by one run in the Super Over after the teams ended with scores tied at 174 runs each . After hammering an unbeaten 111 , Carter had to come out to bat again in the Super Over after Cobras had managed just 11 runs in their Super Over. It was a master move by the Cobras to ask offspinner Sybrand Engelbrecht to bowl . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
