CLT20 : Kings XI Punjab off to a winning start The author has posted comments on this article Hindol Basu , TNN | Sep 19 , 2014 , 12.22PM IST Maxwell produced a characteristic high-octane innings to make sure that Punjab never felt the pressure of the asking run-rate. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MOHALI : Kings XI Punjab registered a comprehensive five-wicket win against the Hobart Hurricanes in their first CLT20 encounter at the PCA stadium on Thursday . KXIP 's Lankan recruit Thisara Perera gave an all-round performance , first picking up two wickets in a miserly bowling spell and then hit a quick 35 ( 20b ; 4x4 , 1x6 ) as Punjab romped home with 14 balls to spare . Coming in at 775 to join his captain George Bailey at the crease , Perera instantly took the pressure off by smashing a boundary , a six , and then again another four off leggie Cameron Boyce . The Lankan set the tone and added an unbroken 69-run partnership with Bailey ( 34 not out off 27b ; 5x4 ) , who finished the match with a flurry of boundaries . It was n't all that easy for the Kings as Hurricanes ' new ball bowlers -Doug Bollinger and Ben Hilfenhaus - had them tottering at 233 after their opening burst , but Glenn Maxwell ( 43 off 25b ; 4x4 , 2x6 ) produced a characteristic high-octane innings to make sure that Punjab never felt the pressure of the asking run-rate . Earlier , it was a slow start for the Hurricanes after being put in to bat. Openers Tim Paine and Ben Dunk were tied down by the new-ball bowlers and when Paine tried to break free , left-arm spinner Akshar Patel castled him with an arm ball . Perera was the best bowler on show and he picked up his first wicket , having Dunk ( 26 off 25b , 4x4 ) caught at deep cover in the Australian 's pursuit to clear the cover boundary . Aiden Blizzard ( 27 off 18b , 2x4 , 1x6 ) hit some lusty blows to give much-needed momentum to the Hurricanes ' innings , but Perera cut his stay short . After Shoaib Malik gifted his wicket to leg-spinner Karanveer Singh , Kings XI slumped to 784 in the 13th over . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
