CLT20 : Mumbai Indians go for Pollard power The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Sep 12 , 2014 , 12.10PM IST Pollard is an automatic choice in the MI set-up. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 RAIPUR : Mumbai Indians have finally decided that it will be Kieron Pollard who will lead the team in the Champions League T20 championship . Ever since their skipper Rohit Sharma broke his finger during India 's second ODI against England in Cardiff a fortnight ago , he was always a doubtful starter for the CLT20 . Whatever little hopes MI had of Rohit making a quick comeback ended after he suffered a shoulder injury , and was ruled out of action for a further four weeks . Mumbai Indians coach John Wright while announcing the name of the West Indies all-rounder , as the captain said that MI were never short of options . " We have many experienced players in the side who are also capable leaders. Harbhajan Singh has led the team in the past with distinction. But he wants to concentrate on his bowling right now . " Pollard is an automatic choice in the MI set-up , and his success as the captain having led the Barbados Tridents to Caribbean Premier League T20 triumph. Aussie batsman Michael Hussey 's place in the playing XI is not assured , which was a reason that he was n't considered for the hot-seat . If fit and available , the four first choice overseas players are likely to be skipper Kieron Pollard , Lendl Simons , Corey Anderson and Lasith Malinga . " Therefore we finally decided on Pollard 's name as he has proved to be an astute captain. He led his domestic team to title in their T20 League which helped them qualify for the CLT20 too , " the former India coach said . Wright further said : " We were never short of options and were well prepared for a different skipper the moment Rohit suffered that injury in Cardiff. There is no doubt that we will miss Rohit both as a captain and a premier batsman. However , we are confident that with a strong pool of players we will do well in the championship , first in the qualifiers and then in the main round. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
