Contracts may force Dhoni to play all formats : Kirmani The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Jun 4 , 2014 , 09.15AM IST Syed Kirmani receives the lifetime achievement award from Sunil Gavaskar and industrialist Harsh Goenka during the CEAT International Cricket Awards 2014 in Mumbai. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Former India wicketkeeper Syed Kirmani , who won the 'CEAT lifetime achievement award ' here on Monday , feels that " commercial considerations " may be preventing India skipper MS Dhoni from quitting at least one format in order to preserve himself for a longer duration . " The ball is entirely in his court. If he is fit , he can play in all formats , " Kirmani told TOI in an exclusive interview , before explaining why he thought Dhoni may be keen to play for India in all formats . " You see , he is on a contract. All Indian players are on a contract with some firm or the other , where they endorse their products. These companies would like to see the players , who they pay to endorse their products , play in all the formats so that their logo is seen all the time. This is holding the players from taking a break. There could be other reasons too , " Kirmani opined . The 64-year-old , who played 88 Tests , was a part of the 'Kapil 's Devils ' team which won the World Cup in 1983. All through his career , he had to live in the shadows , while others around him hogged the limelight , whether it was the famous quartet of spinners he kept wickets for or Kapil Dev , with whom he added 126 * for the ninth wicket against Zimbabwe to save India the blushes during a World Cup game in 1983 . While it was Kapil who justifiably hogged glory at Tunbridge Wells for his glorious 175 not out , Kirmani 's contribution - an unbeaten 24 at a critical stage , was no less vital. In the Indian dressing room , thanks to his changing hairstyles and fabulous sense of humour , he remained a popular character . Kirmani expressed happiness upon receiving the award , but also rued the fact that he could have played much more for India , but was n't 'allowed ' to. " It ( the award ) is a matter of honour and I am thankful for it. However , to be honest , I do n't think I was allowed to 'achieve ' in my career. I had a lot of cricket ahead of me. In my opinion , though , it is God who makes the destiny of an individual. This award is given to one who has literally served the country till he retires after achieving everything. I was at the pinnacle of my career. I was mature and improving match by match , when the almighty said 'enough is enough. ' However , I have no regrets at all. I am enjoying life , and there is no time to crib , " the man with the famous long and thin moustache said . Kirmani was impressed with the talent displayed by young stumper Sanju Samson , but had a word of caution for him . " He has shown maturity in his approach. However , it is important for a youngster to retain his head on his shoulders , and not get carried away by his good progress and talent. Many promising youngsters have slipped into wilderness because they lost their heads , " he felt . Being a stumper , Kirmani relished Kings ' keeper Wriddhiman Saha 's unbeaten 115 in the IPL final. " It was wonderful to see a keeper-bat come out to open the innings and click so well. This shows that consistency in fielding a player brings out the best in him , " the ex-Karnataka player stressed . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
