Contrasting fortunes for Pankaj and Varun The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 10 , 2014 , 12.40PM IST Pankaj Singh celebrates after the dismissal of England 's Jos Buttler as Chris Woakes ( L ) looks on during the fourth Test at Old Trafford. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MANCHESTER : Cricket can be a cruel game and at times is known to test even the best. Only those with strong mental resolve survive the grind of Test cricket. Ask Pankaj Singh , who not only went wicket-less on his debut at Southampton but also gave away 179 runs ( 0/146 & 0/33 ) to end up with the worst-ever figures for a bowler on debut . " That 's cricket , " he had shrugged after the match where he had been unlucky not to have picked up at least two wickets. So when Pankaj caught Alastair Cook on Thursday to give Varun Aaron his first wicket on return to Test cricket , he must have wondered whether he was destined to get one himself . Pankaj 's wait for his maiden wicket finally ended half-an-hour before lunch on Day 3 when Joe Root got a tickle down the leg side to a short , ill-directed delivery and Dhoni held a shoulder-high catch. It was good to see his teammates rush to congratulate him even as he thanked the heavens above for the 'reward' . For the record , it was his 416th legitimate delivery in Test cricket and it cost him and India a whopping 274 runs. It was an important breakthrough as Root and Jos Buttler had added 134 priceless runs for the seventh wicket . Pankaj did n't have to wait long for his second , though. It come just before the lunch break in the form of Buttler , who drove an off-cutter uppishly to Cheteshwar Pujara at mid-off . Purely from the bowling point of view , Pankaj has just about deserved to hold on to his place in the playing XI because of Ishant Sharma 's continued absence . He has been lucky to bowl on two surfaces that have yielded decent bounce and carry. Yet , his lack of pace is a major drawback and will render him ineffective on slower surfaces. On Saturday , he was guilty of wasting the second new ball by bowling way too short. At his pace , he is better off hitting the deck and attacking the stumps with his cutters . The same prescription does n't hold good for his partner Varun Aaron , whose pace clearly rattled the Englishmen. Aaron is not super quick , nor is he accurate but when he gets his radar right and fires them in , he can hurry the best as Cook found out in the first innings . His inclusion in the XI at the expense of Mohammad Shami was a calculated gamble by MS Dhoni , which paid off. Like Pankaj , playing in his second Test , Aaron did all that his captain wanted him to -bowl fast and test batsmen with the short ball . " There is no pressure on me to bowl quick all the time. Bowling at a sustained speed for five or six overs is not a problem. But yes , shorter spells are always better , " Aaron said . The most pleasing aspect of Aaron 's performance is that he bowled consistently at over 140 kmph and had batsmen ducking for cover when he dug it short. Stuart Broad paid the price for being over-aggressive and had to retire hurt after copping a nasty blow on the bridge of his nose while trying to pull a bouncer from Aaron , who finished with figures of 397 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
