2nd Test : England 216/6 at close on Day 2 The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Jul 18 , 2014 , 11.15PM IST India 's Bhuvneshwar Kumar second right , celebrates with teammates the wicket of England 's Gary Ballance , during the second day of the second Test. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : England 's Gary Ballance scored his second century as the second Test against India sat evenly-poised following a sweltering day 's play at Lord 's on Friday . Having dismissed the visitors for 295 on a pitch that appears to be getting easier to bat on , England reached 219 for six at the close of day two . Liam Plunkett ( 4 ) and Matt Prior ( 2 ) will look to reach India 's total on Saturday should the predicted poor weather hold off , while the visitors will be desperate to take a lead into their second innings . Bhuvneshwar Kumar was the pick of the Indian bowlers , getting rid of captain Alastair Cook and Sam Robson before lunch and Ian Bell after the break . The hosts also lost Joe Root before Ballance and Moeen , two of England 's success stories in what has been a tough period after series defeats by Australia and Sri Lanka , combined to good effect . They put on 98 for the fifth wicket , having come together with their side in trouble at 113 for four . While others in England 's order struggle , Zimbabwe-born Ballance continues to prosper at number three , scoring two centuries and two half-centuries in his last five turns at the crease . He hit 15 boundaries in total , reaching three figures off 186 balls when he flicked Stuart Binny through the on side . After lofting the first ball he faced to the fence , Moeen showed commendable patience in supporting Ballance before being trapped lbw by part-time spinner Murali Vijay for 32 . Ballance fell shortly after the new ball was taken , well caught down the leg side by Mahendra Singh Dhoni to become Kumar 's fourth wicket . Question marks remain over the form of Cook , however , who has not passed three figures in over a year and has now scored 93 runs in six test innings against Sri Lanka and India this season after this latest failure . He looked comfortable at the crease before nibbling at a ball from the accurate Kumar that was caught by Dhoni behind the stumps , a combination of poor footwork and lack of conviction contributing to his downfall . Fellow opener Sam Robson 's determination to fling the bat at a ball from Kumar saw him off for 17 , while Ian Bell was taken by surprise by a delivery that jagged in and caught him on the glove , catches being taken by Dhoni and Jadeja respectively . Joe Root was starting to look comfortable before being given out lbw to spinner Ravindra Jadeja despite him getting an inside edge . Earlier India 's first innings lasted only ten balls of the morning session before Ben Stokes had Shami caught by Cook , his 100th test catch , with five runs added to the overnight score . The quick breakthrough was scant consolation for the hosts , who had India at 145 for seven just after tea on Thursday before Ajinkya Rahane ( 103 ) combined with the lower order to ensure their bowlers had a total to defend . The first match of the five-test series at Trent Bridge was drawn . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
