Cook still unable to lift lid on Pietersen axe The author has posted comments on this article Apr 1 , 2014 , 07.34PM IST Despite being England 's all-time leading run scorer across all formats , South Africa-born Pietersen was axed by the England and Wales Cricket Board. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : England captain Alastair Cook said Tuesday he was " frustrated " at his inability to reveal the reasons behind Kevin Pietersen 's international exile , although he promised all would become clear " soon " . Despite being England 's all-time leading run scorer across all formats , South Africa-born Pietersen was axed by the England and Wales Cricket Board in February following the team 's 5-0 Ashes thrashing in Australia . But precisely why he was sent into international exile , with seemingly no hope of return , remains a mystery and Cook was unable to shed any fresh light on Tuesday . " I ca n't actually answer that question , totally , at this precise moment in time which is incredibly frustrating for me , " Cook told Sky Sports News at county side Essex 's media day . " Everyone will say I 'm sitting on the fence , but there are a number of reasons which will become clearer soon . " You have to respect the decision and the position I am in at this precise moment in time , " the left-handed opening batsman added . Initially the ECB would only cite the need for a new " team ethic and philosophy " as the reason behind the axing of the 33-year-old Pietersen , England 's leading run-scorer in the Ashes . But , following fierce criticism from the likes of former captain Michael Vaughan regarding such wording and that management ought to be able to handle 'maverick ' players , the board clarified its position with another February statement saying the team had to be rebuilt and that to do that " we must invest in our captain Alastair Cook...with everyone pulling in the same direction and able to trust each other " . The ECB added : " It is for those reasons that we have decided to move on without Kevin Pietersen . " But that statement still left unanswered the question of what precisely Pietersen had done in Australia to deserve such drastic treatment , with some in the England hierarchy saying confidentiality reasons prevented them from revealing precise details . That simply led to more fresh criticism of the ECB amid suggestions they 'd rather having malleable 'nice chaps ' on board rather than different types of possibly more awkward characters who were nevertheless match-winners . England 's recent struggles , culminating with the humiliation of Monday 's 45-run defeat by minnows the Netherlands in the World Twenty20 in Bangladesh , where a team without Pietersen and Cook , who does not play in T20 internationals , were dismissed for just 88 , have only led to fresh questions . Cook accepted the 'Pietersen issue ' would not go away until England addressed it full on , but insisted he could n't do so at this moment in time . " Everyone is going to keep asking that question until we give the answers , but at the moment we just ca n't so I 'd love to talk about something slightly different , " said the 29-year-old . Some of Pietersen 's celebrity friends , such as television personality Piers Morgan , have subjected the ECB to a constant barrage of social media criticism since England decided they could do without him . If it 's arguable how much good Morgan 's support has done Pietersen , it 's certainly irked the England hierarchy , including Cook , who were all party to the controversial decision . " If anyone thinks the decision was taken lightly and without a lot of consideration and a lot of thought -- a lot of things went into the decision , " Cook said . " It was a tough decision. The decisions will be made clearer in due course. You just have to respect that at the moment. It is frustrating. That is the position I 'm in , " he added . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
