Cook surprised by India 's capitulation The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 11 , 2014 , 10.17AM IST Cook admitted that he knew he was on the brink earlier in the series. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MANCHESTER : England captain Alastair Cook , who was down in the dumps after his team went down to India in the Lord 's Test , on Saturday paid tribute to the spirit of his young squad . " We stuck together as a team , " said Cook. " Even when we went 0-1 down we still thought we had a chance of winning the series because there were three games left , " he added . " We were at rock bottom at Lord 's but after the glimmer of hope runs from the younger guys gave us , it was a matter of the senior guys stepping up the plate. A younger side has made that easy - it was a matter of believing. Keep doing the stuff and it would turn. The challenge was to match the intensity , to set the tone like we did on that first morning. " The England skipper admitted that he was surprised at India 's capitulation . " We did n't think we 'd get it done today , but Moeen was fantastic. Everything went to plan. You do n't often get nine wickets in a session , we got on a roll straight after tea. At tea we planned to get them six down , " said Cook. " A part of their game must have been to attack Moeen. He has improved rap idly. I 've never seen a bloke work so hard and make such a big improvement. He 's a canny operator. When it 's spun he 's bowled well , " he said . Cook also revealed that his top bowler Anderson had been suffering from a debilitating sickness bug. " To see Jimmy bowl nine overs - he had n't eaten for 48 hours - was great. He set the tone at the start. We did n't think they would fall as they did , but they did. " Cook also admitted that he knew he was on the brink earlier in the series. " That was a tough moment as a side , we spoke about it. You run out of chances in my position , but I had a lot of confidence. It was about hanging in there. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
