Cricket in Argentina gives local kids a new hope The author has posted comments on this article Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Children in a Buenos Aires slum play cricket to escape poverty and crime. Their coach Daniel Juarez tells us how the game has transformed the lives of these kids . Cricket is nothing new for Argentineans. The locals were introduced to this game by the Britishers who invaded the country in 1806. Unlike rugby , soccer and tennis , the game of cricket never found its place in the country . Interestingly , in 1861 , the Buenos Aires Cricket Club came into being. Today , there are roughly 2000 teenagers playing the game under the Argentine Cricket Association banner which celebrated its 100th year last year . Some of the kids playing in some 10 cricket academies and 20 schools supporting cricket in the country come from shanty localities. One such place in Buenos Aires is Villa 21-24. A place notoriously famous for all the wrong reasons -drugs , street-fights and open looting , outsiders fear entering this locality . Cricket was first played in this crime-prone neighbourhood in 2009. It was Daniel Juarez , an accountant by profession , who came to the slum with the idea of changing the lives of children through this game . " Pope Francis was a frequent visitor to this town when he was the cardinal in this region. It was his work that inspired me to do something for the kids of this hard locality , " said Daniel. Interestingly , Jaurez first came to know about the game of cricket through his son who found a liking towards it on television . Today , Daniel lands up in this locality every day to train youngsters and has earned himself the job as coach of Caacupe. The team which consists of students between the ages of eight to 15 has already been recognised by the International Cricket Council ( ICC ) . " Cricket has changed the lives of kids in this area. They have learnt to behave , work as a team and respect their elders. It has forced them to go back to school. It is a prerequisite for all the members of the Caacupe cricket team to attend school. I do n't know if the game has taken them out of poverty , but it has certainly given them hope of a new life , " he said . Messi and Maradona are the biggest sporting icons of the country yet Daniel thought of introducing cricket and not soccer to the kids. " Everyone in Argentina plays soccer , so if I had introduced this game the kids would n't have been eager to learn or be part of any team. So , I thought of teaching them a new sport and cricket was the ideal answer. " Cricket is one of the key activities in the Caacupe community , which is named after a virgin saint popular in Argentina . Being a young cricket club it does not have any state funding and survives through donations . The equipment like bats , balls , gloves and helmets , are all given by former players from other clubs. The team members dream of playing for the Argentinean cricket side . " The kids look up to Sachin Tendulkar and admire his consistency. They constantly watch his videos and try to emulate his shots , " points out Daniel . Already , three players from the Caacupe team are part of the Argentina U-15 team. Team players are now aiming to break into senior ranks . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
