Curious case of Cheteshwar Pujara The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Aug 13 , 2014 , 11.10AM IST Kapil Dev had marked out Pujara as the most significant player for the series. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 He does n't do it often , but when Cheteshwar Pujara sported a frown after being adjudged lbw to a Moeen Ali delivery that seemed to be missing leg stump , it was understandable. He was desperate for runs . Having gone to England after building a sizeable reputation for himself , thanks to his relentless streak of accumulating runs , India 's new No. 3 , unfairly touted as the next Rahul Dravid , has disappointed in recent weeks with his inability to get going . There 's been a steady dip in form since his arrival in England. Pujara got 38 and 55 at Trent Bridge , 28 and 43 at Lord 's , 24 and 2 at Southampton and 0 and 17 at Old Trafford . This , on the back of scores of 1 , 23 , 19 and 17 on the tour of New Zealand . It is n't surprising that India 's fortunes too have nosedived with Pujara 's form. He along with Virat Kohli were tipped to be the batting mainstays on the tour . Before the team 's departure for England , legendary allrounder Kapil Dev had marked out Pujara as the most significant player for the series. The 26-year-old , however , has failed to stay and shape the Indian innings , aggregating a mere 207 runs in four Tests for an average of 25.87 . Pujara 's reputation has been built around consistent performances , even if mostly on Rajkot belters. The Saurashtra batsman had raised expectations with his stirring run-making ability in first-class cricket itself , when he stroked two triple hundreds , and one at the U-22 level as a prelude to his international career , which saw him stroke a couple of double hundreds against England and Australia at home. Displaying enormous patience and flawless technique , Pujara evoked comparisons with Dravid , even though the youngster was yet to be tested outside the sub-continent . The first blip , or signs of trouble , showed on the tour to New Zealand , where he managed just 60 runs in four innings. The problem , however , is , Pujara has looked good even while failing. He gets out just as he appears to be getting settled at the crease . Skipper MS Dhoni pointed out that the early exit of the openers meant that the Rajkot-based star was being exposed to the new ball far too early. That , however , can not be the sole reason for Pujara 's struggles . Former Bengal batsman Debu Mitra , who coached Saurashtra for the last decade , can claim to know Pujara 's game fairly well. " I do n't think there is anything wrong with him. This can happen to any cricketer , even Sunil Gavaskar failed in the odd series. Cricket looks easy from outside the 75 yards , but it is a dangerous game. For a batsman , it is a one-ball game. Even Virat Kohli is in bad form. Then at Old Trafford , all the batsmen failed on a track where we should 've bowled first , so why is the media singling Pujara out ? " Dilip Vengsarkar , who did well abroad in his time , however , was scathing in his assessment of not just Pujara , but the entire young batting crop in India shirts . " The techniques of all our top batsmen — Kohli , Shikhar Dhawan and Gautam Gambhir — have been exposed. A basic technical fault in their game is that they all defend with an angled bat against the moving ball , which results in the ball going towards the slips. I ca n't understand what our coach Duncan Fletcher is doing , " said Vengsarkar . Like most of his colleagues , Pujara has surrendered his wicket twice to the rather innocuous off spin of Moeen , which shows how his confidence has dipped. To make it worse , he does n't have the DRS to bail him out of a bad review . " One big score , and he will be a different batsman altogether , " said India 'A ' coach , Lalchand Rajput. " He did play well in South Africa , so it 's not as if Pujara ca n't play well abroad . As for doing well in England , Pujara can take a cue from Dravid , who played a season of county cricket to get used to the English conditions. " With the fifth and final Test starting at The Oval on Friday , Pujara still has a chance to salvage something out of this tour — that can put the smile back on his face . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
