Current crop cares for Tests too : Rahul Dravid The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Sep 13 , 2014 , 09.13AM IST In a speech laced with humour , Dravid had everyone in splits with his responses to questions from the audience. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : There is one interesting facet to Rahul Dravid 's personality which was hidden from public view during his playing days : his sense of humour , evident when he delivered the sixth Dilip Sardesai Memorial Lecture at the Cricket Club of India here on Friday . Dressed immaculately , as he always is , in a tie and formal blazer , Dravid showed preparation is still the key as he read out a 'self-prepared ' speech on an interesting topic - 'Oral traditions in cricket' . He spoke about how anecdotes and advice from 'seniors ' is still an essential part of growing up for cricketers at a time when technology arms the player with every nugget of information . In a speech laced with humour , Dravid had everyone in splits with his responses to questions from the audience. A few BCCI officials had reportedly blamed the wives and girlfriends of Indian players after the team faltered in the Test series against England . Responding to a query on whether partners should be allowed to travel with the team , he quipped : " Since I 'm married , I would say yes. Wives , girlfriends , or a partner of any gender should be allowed , because the Indian team travels for almost the entire year. You ca n't start blaming them for the players ' poor performance. In fact , if you do n't allow them , that would be a bigger problem ! " Stating that he loved interacting with the Indian team ahead of the Test series in England , Dravid shot down the notion that team 's 'gen-next ' does n't care about Test cricket . " Guys like ( Ajinkya ) Rahane , ( Virat ) Kohli and ( Cheteshwar ) Pujara do n't ask me questions about T20 , but they keep asking me about Test cricket. I think they do care a lot about it. " Dravid does feel , though , that the current players ' connect with history needs to be better . " They are always willing to talk about it , but their touch with history is not as good as it should be. They live in the age of Internet. They are willing to watch a YouTube clip about ( Sunil ) Gavaskar batting , but they wo n't go deep to research about it , " he said . Dravid had sympathy for Pakistan off-spinner Saeed Ajmal , who has been suspended due to an illegal action . " We should n't look at chucking as a crime. It 's like no-ball. Nobody says you are cheating. You should allow the bowler to correct their action and return to the game , " he felt . The former India skipper had kind words for the ICC too , which has been under fire for not barring Ajmal from the game earlier . " The ICC has a rule in place. When they reviewed a lot of old footage , they found a lot of bowlers , including ( former Aussie pace great ) Glenn McGrath , also having a 'bend, ' but he was n't chucking. I am glad they are strict about this. They have kept it consistent. " Fearing that " ODI cricket without a context would struggle , " the 41-year-oldcalled for an end to " meaningless one-day games. " Though he almost ducked the question , Dravid also dropped enough hints that he would be ready to coach India someday . " There 's a time and place for everything. I 've enjoyed being in the media and mentoring Rajasthan Royals. In future , I would love to be the coach of the Indian team or even a Ranji team , " he said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
