Dhoni hints at playing an extra bowler The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 9 , 2014 , 06.44AM IST Ravindra Jadeja , MS Dhoni and Virat Kohli prepare to bat during net practice. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NOTTINGHAM : If the focus is entirely on the 22 yards that matter at the Trent Bridge , where the first of the five Tests between England and India gets under way on Wednesday , it is understandable , for it is a clash between two teams that have seen better days . Four years ago when these two teams had squared up in England , the fight had been for the No. 1 spot in Tests. We all know what happened : Even native Indians had shown more spunk while resisting the British colonialists than MS Dhoni 's team which surrendered in all four Tests and the top ranking in 2011 . Both teams have since slipped down the pecking order following a series of reverses . India are currently ranked No 4 while England are a spot behind. The irony is , no matter how convincingly either team wins the series , neither side can hope to rise higher than No 3 , while a 2011-like reverse will see India slip to No 7 in the ICC Test rankings . Both sides have lost iconic players , chiefly through retirements , and are in the process of rebuilding. More importantly , both India and England have not only struggled to put up big totals on board , but also failed to consistently bowl out the opposition twice. This brings the pitch back in focus. The one on offer here is not a traditional green top that visiting teams have come to expect. But the brown surface hides a green stubble that is making Team India see red. Experts here feel that pace bowlers will get much assistance from the surface on the first couple of days before it flattens out on Day 3 and 4 . England 's pace attack -comprising James Anderson , Stuart Broad , Chris Jordan and Liam Plunkett -should relish bowling on this surface first up. It is Anderson 's happy hunting ground where England 's premier pacer has returned a five-wicket haul six times in 7 Test matches. While Anderson ( 355 wickets ) will be looking to swing a few in his bid to displace Ian Botham ( 383 ) as England 's leading wicket-taker in course of the Test series , his strike partner Broad will be hoping to get some bounce to have rival batsmen hopping around . There appears to be no change in India 's gameplan with skipper Dhoni stating during the match-eve media interaction that he would bat at No 6 , thereby hinting at the possibility of India going in with five bowlers , including all-rounders Stuart Binny and Ravindra Jadeja . Dhoni admitted that the lack of a pacebowling all-rounder had hurt India 's cause in recent times , and the team management is looking to groom Binny to play that role . If there is no change of heart overnight , Rohit Sharma will miss out. It is bad news for R Ashwin , too , for the off-spinner has gone from being the first-choice spinner to ` nochoice ' when the team is playing abroad . If India are looking to land the first punch , they must look to deliver with both bat and ball. No better place to start than at this venue where they had bowled out England for a meagre 221 on Day 1 of the Test in 2011 and had them in trouble at 57/2 in the second after taking a 67-run first-innings lead before losing the plot and the match by a whopping 319 runs. Interestingly , it was here in 2007 that India had won the Test by seven wickets , and thereby the series , under Rahul Dravid . For England , who have won their last five Tests at Trent Bridge , and their skipper Alastair Cook , the series represents a fresh start . Cook allayed fears over Matt Prior 's thigh injury , saying the bearded wicketkeeper is " 99 per cent sure of playing " which means Jos Buttler , who has been called in as a cover , will have to wait . Under fire from the British media for his lack of runs and England 's capitulation against a lower-ranked Sri Lanka , Cook has no option but to lead from the front. The England captain , who averages 55.26 against India , will no doubt relish batting against an attack that lacks both depth and variety . The contest between two evenly-matched sides could well be decided by one heroic knock or a brilliant spell of bowling -ideally from one team. Take your pick , or watch and wait . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
