Dhoni wins Asian award for sports in UK The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Apr 5 , 2014 , 10.11AM IST In 2013 , Dhoni became the first captain to win all the three ICC trophies. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : On a roll in the ongoing ICC World Twenty20 where his team has entered the final , Indian cricket captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni has another reason to smile as he has won the 2014 Asian award for outstanding achievement in sports in London . Dhoni , currently in Bangladesh leading India in the ICC World T20 , was honoured Friday night . Former England cricketer Ramprakash , who was to present the award at the glittering ceremony at the Grosvenor House Hotel , read out a message from Dhoni " dedicating the award " to his fans in Asia and all over the world . The citation said , " Dhoni is widely regarded as one of the greatest finishers in limited overs cricket. Under his captaincy , India has won numerous awards including the 2007 ICC World Twenty20 , the CB Series of 2007-08 , the 2010 Asia Cup , the 2011 ICC Cricket World Cup and the 2013 ICC Champions Trophy . " In 2013 , Dhoni became the first captain to win all the three ICC trophies. Dhoni was ranked 16th on the Forbes list of highest paid athletes. " Dr Cyrus Poonawalla , Chairman of Poonawalla Group which includes Serium Institute of India , won the Asian Business Leader of the Year award for his outstanding contribution to the field of medicine . G P Hinduja , Co-Chairman of the Hinduja Group presented the award to Poonawalla and hailed his achievements . Indian film and TV actor Irrfan Khan , the first Bollywood actor to star in two films that won the Academy Award for Best Director -- Slumdog Millionaire ( 2008 ) and Life of Pi ( 2012 ) -- was chosen for the Asian outstanding achievement in Cinema award . Venkatraman " Venki " Ramakrishnan , who shared the 2009 Nobel Prize in Chemistry with Thomas A Steitz and Ada E Yonath , received the Asian outstanding achievement award in Science and Technology . Saying that he was touched by the award , Ramakrishnan said , " it is not often scientists are recognised by the society. " He said the Asian Diaspora generally prefer their children to go for studies which is " financially rewarding. " Salil Shetty , Secretary General of the Amnesty International , received the Asian Public Servant of the Year award . Norah Jones , daughter of sitar maestro Ravi Shankar , received the outstanding achievement in music award . Ahmed Kathrada , who suffered imprisonment for 26 years along with Nelson Mandela in South Africa for his involvement in the anti-apartheid movement , received the Founders Award . Kathrada dedicated the award to " those comrades who did not live to see freedom in South Africa. " Other recipients of the awards were Jackie Chan , MBE ( The Fellowship Award ) , Sir David Tang ( Outstanding achievement in the arts ) , Gok Wan ( outstanding achievement in Television award ) , Lui Che Woo ( Entrepreneur of the Year Award ) . Paul Sagoo , Founder of the Asian Awards , said the awards have come a long way since their inception in 2009 . " My vision for these awards was simple - to create an event which would recognise exceptional achievement from those within the global Asian community , on a scale which had never been seen or done before. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
