Did n't expect a call so soon : Naman Ojha The author has posted comments on this article Ruchir Mishra , TNN | Aug 2 , 2014 , 11.18PM IST With Dhoni at the helm , Ojha knows his chances are slim but he is prepared. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NAGPUR : " India lacks a good wicketkeeper batsman and Naman Ojha can be a good option , " ex-India batsman Mohd Kaif had commented after Central Zone won the low scoring Duleep Trophy final against a star-studded North Zone outfit way back in 2004-05. Ojha , then 22 , had batted superbly against the likes of India pacers Joginder Sharma , Amit Bhandari and Gagandeep Singh on a green top in Nagpur scoring 55 out of 133 . Few months later , MS Dhoni arrived on the scene with 148 against Pakistan at Vizag. His 183 against Sri Lanka at Jaipur three months later virtually sealed the careers of many aspiring wicketkeepers. Ojha was one of them. He has been playing cricket for close to 15 years and is already a veteran of 101 First Class games. However , his performances over the years have mostly gone unnoticed. That has n't stopped him from giving his best. Finally , his hard work and consistent performances over the last three-four seasons has paid off. Ojha has been included in the Indian Test squad in place of the injured Wriddhiman Saha for the final two Tests against England after a brilliant Australia 'A ' tour . The MP wicketkeeper batsman scored 430 runs during the recently-concluded India 'A ' tour with the help of three tons in as many innings and that paved the way for his selection for the England tour. Asked if he expected to bat so well in alien conditions , Ojha said , " It was a different challenge. Frankly , I was expecting the call but not so soon. I have been consistently performing for the last three to four years on some of the most challenging wickets. I always bat at the top for MP , but I do n't have a fixed spot in the Central Zone line-up. Batting with the tail has its own challenge and I enjoyed it. I am a natural stroke-maker. But of late , I have been very selective with my shots. It comes with experience. Now , I know what type of game I need to play at different stages. I never change my game irrespective of the format I play , " Ojha told TOI on Saturday , the eve of his departure to Manchester , the venue of the fourth Test . At 31 , where most cricketers are happy to give up their dream of representing the country and are content to make a living through domestic cricket and T20 leagues , Ojha still dreamt of playing at the highest level. That prompted him to invest on improving his game. He has been seeking guidance from ex-India cricketer and current Mumbai coach Pravin Amre for the last two years and the results are there for all to see. He has scored over 2000 runs in the last three seasons. " I do n't want to play just for sake of it. I love to score runs. I get very good sleep when I score. It 's important to keep working on your game. When I started training under Amre Sir , I just wanted to improve myself. The India cap was n't on my mind. It materialized because of Hiru Bhai ( Narenda Hirwani ) , who has been a great help to me throughout my career , " he said . With Dhoni at the helm , Ojha knows his chances are slim but he is prepared. " I am ready for the challenge. If the opportunities come my way I will try and grab it with both hands. I want to play Test cricket , " he signed off . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
