Dominant India eye clean sweep against England The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Sep 2 , 2014 , 11.59AM IST India would look for their first bilateral ODI series win against England in England in 24 years. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 EDGBASTON : With an unassailable lead already in their pocket , India return to a venue where they clinched the Champions Trophy last year as they look to avenge their humiliation in the Test series . If they win the fourth one-dayer on Tuesday by putting up another dominating display in Birmingham , India would record another historic triumph - it would be their first win in a bilateral ODI series against England in England in 24 years . India have no doubt been aided by what has been a common feature in both the Champions Trophy and this series - wickets helping spin. It is a factor that has helped both R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja come into their own - both have taken five wickets each giving little away . This is in stark contrast to the Test series , where both struggled to get batsmen out . The visitors have taken a 2-0 lead in the series after recording comprehensive victories at Cardiff ( 133 runs via DL method ) and Nottingham ( six wickets ) in the second and third ODIs respectively. The first ODI at Bristol was abandoned due to rain . At Edgbaston then , the Men in Blue will be hoping to wrap things up , so that the final game becomes a mere formality. Their confidence will stem from the fact that England have been unable to challenge them in any department so far . Currently , in limited-overs cricket , the hosts appear to be a rabbit caught in the headlights , compared to the Tests , where they appear as a far more formidable force . With the World Cup in Australia-New Zealand not too far away , England seem beset with problems . India back on top of ODI rankings India have been confirmed as the top team in the latest ICC 's ODI rankings , following Zimbabwe 's historic three-wicket win over Australia in Harare on Sunday . World Cup defending champions India 's impressive showing in the ODIs in England had taken them to the top spot , which they shared along Australia . However , Zimbabwe 's first win in 31 years over the Aussies meant that four-time World Champs slipped to fourth in the ranking , with South Africa second and Sri Lanka third . Pakistan 's poor series in Sri Lanka has seen them drop to fifth , with Zimbabwe , Afghanistan and Ireland bringing up the rear . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
