Dravid says India 's attack key to England series The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jul 5 , 2014 , 02.19PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Former captain Rahul Dravid says India 's success in England will largely depend on how well their under-fire bowling attack can shape up during the five-Test series , starting at Nottingham on July 9 . " I think the key is going to be the ability to take 20 wickets , " Dravid told reporters at Lord 's , where he is playing for MCC XI against the Rest of the World in a match marking the ground 's bicentenary on Saturday . Under Dravid 's leadership , India , in 2007 had won the three-Test series 1-0 -- one of just three Indian Test series victories on English soil . Dravid pointed out that left-arm pacer Zaheer Khan , who is not a part of the current series because of injury , and retired leg-spinner Anil Kumble played a vital role in the team 's victory in 2007 . " When we won the series here in 2007 , Zaheer was exceptional but he got good support from the other guys as well. Anil was brilliant because he was able to control the game by keeping one end tight , " Dravid recalled . The touring Indian squad comprises experienced pacer Ishant Sharma -- the only bowler in their squad to have played a Test in England prior to this trip - but he was off-colour during the warm-up games. The pace unit also consists of Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Mohammed Shami and Stuart Binny . Dravid said unless these bowlers are able to swing the ball , it would be difficult to get the better of the English batsmen . " All three of those seamers swung the ball in that ( 2007 ) series and if the Indians can pitch the ball up and swing it , I think they give themselves a chance , " he said . Dravid , however , is confident that the young batsmen in Cheteshwar Pujara , Shikhar Dhawan and Rohit Sharma would come up with impressive performances . " I think most of them , whilst they 've not played Test matches here , have been on 'A ' tours here and they have played one-day cricket , including the Champions Trophy ( which India won ) last year , " Dravid said . " I see the potential for this young group of players to become a formidable batting force , " the 41-year-old said . Dravid , who made his debut in England in 1996 with a fluent 95 at Lord 's , said he learnt a lot during that tour . " I know how much I learned from my first tour of England. I went away from here a much better cricketer and better person for it , " he said . " There is a great opportunity here , a great learning experience. " India were whitewashed 0-4 in England during their last tour in 2011. In fact , they have n't won a Test away from home since beating the West Indies in June 2011 -- the run has now stretched to 14 matches . Dravid has been appointed as an advisor to the Indian team in England for the Test series and he will be joining them ahead of the first Test . Asked if he would be " mentoring " the side , Dravid said , " We will see with the results. If it goes well , I have done it. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
