England cricket team 's year of trouble The author has posted comments on this article Ehtesham Hasan , TNN | Jul 17 , 2014 , 11.18AM IST No other team has been embroiled in controversies as much as Alastair Cook 's side in recent times. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 No other team has been embroiled in controversies as much as Alastair Cook 's side in recent times. TOI revisits a few of them . Knockabout at Walkabout ( June 2013 ) : England 's golden boy , Joe Root , needles Australia 's opener David Warner in the roped-off area of the Walkabout bar in Birmingham following a Champions Trophy win over old foes. The maverick Aussie punches the young batsman and is subsequently suspended by Cricket Australia after the British press and former England cricketers cry themselves hoarse . Stuart 'Fraud ' ( July ) : Stuart Broad edges an Ashton Agar delivery to Australia captain Michael Clarke at first slip and stands his ground after umpire Aleem Dar fails to notice the nick. Aussie coach Darren Lehmann labels Broad a cheat for which the ICC fines 20 % of his match fee. The all-rounder , match referee Chris Broad 's son , justifies his action of not walking . Trott 's flight ( November ) : Jonathon Trott , fails to overcome his mental gremlins Down Under and returns home after playing the first Test at Brisbane. Officially it is maintained that the batsman is suffering from a 'stress-related condition ' but the British press lays the blame at Warner 's door for saying Trott is 'poor , weak and looked scared ' facing Mitchell Johnson . Sudden 'Swannsong ' ( December ) : With England 3-0 down in the Ashes , Graeme Swann announces his retirement with immediate effect. Even as Swann 's grandmother blames 'a certain Australian player ' for the decision , the off-spinner is accused of chickening out. Media pundit Piers Morgan tweets , " Graeme Swann 's been a great player for England , but it 's not 'courageous ' to quit an Ashes series before it finishes. It 's selfish. " KP Saga ( February ) : Kevin Pietersen is made the scapegoat for England 's woes in the Ashes and is unceremoniously dropped by the ECB who squarely blames its best batsman for all the ills affecting English cricket. Even as KP maintains a dignified silence some of his team-mates and officials , openly and discreetly , leak stories to the media . Mankaded & 'Lankaded ' ( June 2014 ) : The Sri Lankans are rubbed the wrong way after former England captain Michael Vaughan calls their bowling attack 'club class. ' There 's more controversy in store after spinner Sachithra Senanayake runs out wicketkeeper Jos Buttler for backing up too far during an ODI. The Lankans are accused of not playing in the right spirit of game even as the bowler had warned Buttler in earnest. The bad blood spills over in the Tests , and charged up Lankans emerge victorious . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
