England flirted with risk against India The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 23 , 2014 , 11.43AM IST England batsmen , instead of being smart and cautious , chose to flaunt their bravado. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Geoffrey Boycott had a wry smile on his face during the lunch break on Monday , the final morning of the Lord 's Test. The legendary England opener , who is now a radio commentator , was telling a few Indian journalists how Moeen Ali and Joe Root had put England back on track to win the second Test match . Boycott 's smile grew wider when play resumed and Matt Prior - who had come in at the fall of Mooen 's wicket at the stroke of lunch - and Root smacked two short balls apiece from Ishant Sharma and Mohammad Shami for boundaries , adding 20 runs in two overs . " The Indian bowlers are gifting away the game by bowling short on this pitch , " Boycott observed as Indian fans in the galleries resigned themselves to witnessing yet another capitulation at Lord 's . Two overs later when Prior pulled Ishant straight down Murali Vijay 's throat at midwicket , Boycott was left shaking his head . Prior 's indiscretion was put down to his poor form and lack of self-belief and not a reflection of his lack of hooking ability . With Root playing with supreme confidence , England believed they would get the required 121 runs with the likes of Liam Plunkett , who had made an unbeaten 55 in the first innings , and James Anderson , who had contributed a career-best 81 in a world-record stand of 198 for the tenth wicket with Root at Trent Bridge , coming in at No. 10 and 11 , respectively . What they had not reckoned was that England 's lower order would be sucked into flirting with the short ball and be doomed . The manner in which English batsmen brought about their own downfall prompted former England fast bowler and captain Bob Willis to observe that he had seen " fewer hookers in Soho on a Saturday night " than at Lord 's on a Monday afternoon . Willis ' comment raised a few chuckles but truth to tell , England batsmen were not dismissed playing the hook shot , but a cruder version of the pull much like willow wielders from the subcontinent who have an aversion to chin music . Boycott , forever correct and conventional , could not believe what he had seen. If bowling short balls was a tactic by the Indians , it was borne out of frustration . With the ball not swinging or seaming on a fifth day pitch and lone 'skidder ' Ravindra Jadeja unable to give the ball a rip , the Indian attack looked as potent as a castrated bull . It was a desperate gamble by Dhoni that even Ishant initially had been reluctant to buy into. As Dhoni later admitted , India got lucky with it. The best way to play short-pitched bowling is not to play it. England batsmen , instead of being smart and cautious , chose to flaunt their bravado . Alastair Cook admitted that England paid for being over-aggressive. " You live and die by the sword. It was a high-risk strategy that did n't come off , " Cook said in defence of his batsmen , who chose to take on Ishant on a surface that had flattened out considerably . In doing so , they not only threw out conventional cricket wisdom out of the window and turned opposition 's desperate gamble into a " brilliant " strategy . One shudders to think what would have happened had England chosen to be discreet rather than flamboyant. It would be blasphemous to point a finger at Dhoni after this fine win , but for the second match in a row he chose a fifth bowler who played virtually no role . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
