England thrash India by innings and 244 runs , win series 3-1 The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Aug 17 , 2014 , 09.33PM IST England players celebrate after winning the fifth Test on the third day against India at The Oval in London on August 17 , 2014. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : India 's recent saga of spineless performances touched a new low as they crashed to a humiliating innings and 244 runs defeat well inside three days in the fifth and final Test against England , who clinched the series with a 3-1 margin , here on Sunday . It was yet another abject surrender by the batsman , who were shot out for 94 in just 29.2 overs as they continued their embarassing display succumbing to their heaviest Test defeat in 40 years . This was after England took a gigantic 338 runs lead with a healthy first innings score of 486 riding on a brilliant 149 not out by Joe Root. The series win enbaled Alastair Cook and his boys to retain the Pataudi Trophy for the second straight time in three years . While statistically , it was not a 'Whitewash ' like the last time in 2011 when India lost 0-4 , but once the script took a different turn in Southampton , it had only been a case of humiliation of Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's men , who simply were not good enough to put up a semblance of fight against a rampaging English outfit , running all over them . The likes of Gautam Gambhir ( 3 ) , Cheteshwar Pujara ( 11 ) , Virat Kohli ( 20 ) whose faulty techniques in adverse conditions was cruelly exposed by the likes of Jimmy Anderson , Stuart Broad. While Kohli did not have a clue about how to tackle deliveries shaping away , Pujara was all at sea against the ball coming into the right-hander . It was ironical that India lost two Test matches with a total playing time of five days -- which is the duration of a single Test match . It was near-impossible to prevent a landslide victory for England but opener Murali Vijay ( 2 ) , who had a decent first half of the tour got an incutter from Anderson was adjudged leg-before . Gautam Gambhir ( 3 ) did n't slide the bat in as he was a feet short off the crease failing to beat a direct throw from Chris Woakes. While India went into the lunch at 9 for two , the writing was there on the wall . Chris Jordan ( 4-18 ) and James Anderson ( 2-16 ) once again hassled the visitors as the Indian batsman were unable to cope with their swing bowling skills in better conditions for a second match running . Stuart Broad ( 1-22 ) and Chris Woakes ( 1-24 ) were the other wicket-takers as India 's score-card was again a disappointing reading with only three batsmen able to reach double figures . Pujara and Kohli then started off post-lunch in a bit to rediscover their form and for a brief period of play they did look better than they have previously in the last three matches . It did n't last long though as they added only 21 runs for the third wicket , the highest for the Indian innings . Pujara was then caught behind off an unplayable delivery from Anderson as the slide began . Ajinkya Rahane ( 4 ) came to the crease and pushed and prodded his way for some time before he was dismissed in the same manner five overs later as Gary Ballance pulled off a stunning one-handed catch at third slip . Five balls later came the death blow as skipper MS Dhoni ( 0 ) was caught tamely at forward short leg and India were once again struggling at 46/5 . Kohli atleast managed to get them past the 50-run mark but it was n't enough to salvage any pride. The batsman then was dismissed in the 24th over , looking to clip the ball on the leg-side but only edging to first slip . Jordan then upped the ante and quickly scalped R Ashwin ( 7 ) and Bhuvneshwar Kumar ( 4 ) in the space of five balls in the 26th over . Varun Aaron ( 1 ) was run-out an over later. The end came as Ishant Sharma ( 2 ) was unable to fend off a short ball and lobbed the ball up for Moeen Ali to finish India 's misery. Stuart Binny remained unbeaten on 25 * ( 28 balls , 4 fours ) . India 's misery had been compounded in the morning session when trailing by 336 runs they lost two quick wickets as soon as they started their second innings . Murali Vijay ( 2 ) was trapped LBW by a sharp inswinger from James Anderson ( 1-1 ) while opening partner Gautam Gambhir ( 3 ) was foolishly run-out off the first ball of the 7th over as rain forced an early lunch break. India still trail England by 329 runs . This was after Root ( 149 * , 165 balls , 18 fours , 1 six ) struck his second century of the series as the hosts were eventually bowled out for 486 runs in their first innings , taking a 336-run lead , in reply to the Indian total of 148 runs . Ishant Sharma ( 4-96 ) and R Ashwin ( 3-72 ) were India 's best bowlers in this innings , while Varun Aaron ( 2-153 ) also bowled his heart out. Bhuvneshwar Kumar ( 1-86 ) looked tired after a long series and Stuart Binny ( 0-58 ) was the only other bowler used . Starting at the overnight score of 385/7 , India were looking for an early end to the English innings. But Root had other plans . First he reached his fifth Test hundred in the third over of the day - 108th of the innings - having faced 135 balls , with 10 fours and 1 six. The visitors had some luck in that over though with Ishant removing Chris Jordan ( 20 runs , 33 balls , 2 fours ) ending his 82-run partnership with Root . But the visitors were in for some more punishment as new batsman Stuart Broad opened up as soon as he arrived at the crease . He scored off every delivery until the 11th ball that he faced , taking 27 runs off his first 10 balls. Root was bowled in the 110th over by Ishant but it was deemed a no-ball. He too then started playing some aggressive strokes as the Indian bowling was taken to task , scoring 49 runs off the next 30 balls he faced . In the first hour , India bowled only 11 overs but conceded a massive 98 runs. Root and Broad added 63 runs for the ninth wicket off just 6.4 overs with a scoring rate of 9.45 runs per over. Broad was finally caught at gully off a short ball from Ishant , after scoring a quick-fire 37 runs off 21 balls , with 5 fours and 1 six . Ashwin then brought an end to the innings dismissing James Anderson ( 1 ) cheaply but the match was already out of India 's hands by then . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
