Five-wicket Steyn rips through Sri Lanka The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jul 18 , 2014 , 06.22PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 GALLE : Speed bowler Dale Steyn took five wickets as South Africa seized control on the third day of the first Test against Sri Lanka on Friday . Steyn , 31 , unleashed some fiery bowling without much help from a dry and flat track to finish with figures of 5-50 , his 23rd five-wicket haul in Tests . At stumps , Sri Lanka were 283-9 , still trailing the visitors by 172 runs with just one wicket in hand . Sri Lankan skipper Angelo Mathews fought back valiantly with an 89-run knock before being bowled by leg-spinner Imran Tahir . Mathews , who missed scoring his third Test ton on the trot , also shared 71 runs with Rangana Herath for the eighth wicket , the highest partnership of the innings . His effort was especially commendable since Sri Lanka 's two big hitters -- Mahela Jayawardene ( three ) and Kumar Sangakkara ( 24 ) -- failed with the bat . Steyn struck early in the final session , removing Lahiru Thirimanne ( 38 ) with an away-moving delivery which the batsman edged behind to wicketkeeper Quinton de Kock . The lanky fast bowler struck again soon to dismiss Dinesh Chandimal and Dilruwan Perera off his consecutive overs to cap a fiery three-wicket burst . Chandimal ( six ) was caught at midwicket while Perera snicked to de Kock without opening his account . Mathews tried to hit back , smacking Morne Morkel ( 2-45 ) for five fours in one over to race to his fifties but that was a rare show of dominance on an otherwise disappointing day for the home team . Earlier , Tharanga , making a Test comeback after more than six years , stood out with his doughty 83-run innings that contained 14 fours and a six . Tharanga defied the hostile fast bowling for some three hours but he was finally undone by part-time spinner Jean-Paul Duminy who had him stumped by de Kock . Steyn tasted the first success in the morning session when he got rid of opener Kaushal Silva ( eight ) . Silva tried to hook a bouncer from Steyn but edged it to long leg where Vernon Philander dived forward and plucked the ball inches off the ground to complete a spectacular catch . His dismissal brought in Sangakkara , coming into the match on the back of a record seven successive fifty-plus scores . The left-hander looked his normal poised self , pulling and driving Steyn for two fours in an over , which included his trademark cover drive . Tharanga provided solid support to his more famous partner , reaching his fourth half-century with a four off Duminy . Tharanga dished out similar treatment to Tahir , the only specialist spinner in the South African squad , whacking him around for two boundaries is his consecutive overs . Sudden rain close to the lunch break held up the game briefly. And just as the match resumed , Sangakkara paid the price for losing his concentration , inside edging Morkel on to his stumps . Jayawardene , who has announced that he will retire in August , was trapped leg before by Steyn while trying to defend against a stinging yorker from the bowler . The former skipper asked for a review but replays vindicated the on-field umpire 's call . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
