Fixing Saga : 'Star ' forced Lou Vincent to fix ICL ties The author has posted comments on this article Agencies | May 18 , 2014 , 11.13AM IST During his stint with the ICL , Vincent was also offered a woman and cash to throw away games. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 WELLINGTON : Former New Zealand batsman Lou Vincent has revealed that he was caught in a " tangled web " of match-fixing as he came under the power of an " international star " to whom he could not say no . The extent of Vincent 's match-fixing has been laid bare in explosive disclosures drawn from the International Cricket Council 's anti-corruption investigation into the former player , who is at the centre of one of cricket 's biggest scandals. His evidence has implicated up to 12 players in match fixing . According to stuff.co.nz , among the claims Vincent told of being threatened by an international star , who waved a bat near his head when he failed to keep his side of the bargain after hitting a six when he was attempting to be stumped during the now-defunct Indian Cricket League ( ICL ) . Revealing his apparent helplessness , Vincent is quoted as saying in ICC documents that he was under the power of " the man " and could not say " no " to him , although he also admitted that he did not want to throw away the chance of getting " all that money " . " When you 're under whatever this power ( this man ) has over me , I felt I could n't say 'no ' to him . . . I did n't want to throw away the chance of getting all that money , " Vincent is quoted as saying in ICC documents , referring to the " international star " . Vincent further said that when one of the fixes failed , he incurred the wrath of " that man " , who accused him of " costing him millions " and " fixing for someone else " . The Kiwi batsman , who played 23 Tests and 102 ODIs and scored a Test hundred on debut against Australia , revealed that he used a number of signs to show that fixes were on , including changing the colour of his bat handle or pulling away when the bowler was running in . The player also revealed that he was instructed to score 10 to 15 from 20 deliveries and then get out. During his stint with the ICL , he was also offered a woman and cash to throw away games . Vincent also said that he justified the fixes in England because his contract with Sussex was " only for £ 22,000 " and he was unhappy at how the England and Wales Cricket Board ( ECB ) had made him wait three years for a British passport . While there would be few people who would sympathize with the Kiwi , he found support in the form of former England skipper Andrew Strauss. Strauss said Vincent has given the authorities " something to work with against a cancer on the game " . Former New Zealand Cricket ( NZC ) boss Justin Vaughan has also come out in support of Vincent , saying he " felt for " the former Kiwi batsman who was going through a very " depressing situation " . Vaughan said that he has known the player for many years and Vincent had a " well-documented rocky road in terms of mental state , mental illness that he has battled. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
