Fletcher sidelined , Shastri put in charge for ODI series The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Aug 20 , 2014 , 11.11AM IST Shastri has in the past been the go-to man for the BCCI in times of crisis. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The Indian cricket board ( BCCI ) on Tuesday cracked the whip on Team India 's support staff following the MS Dhoni-led squad 's horror show in England . It appointed player-turned-commentator Ravi Shastri as 'director ' of the team for the ODI series against Cook and Co starting August 25 . The move is aimed at clipping the wings of head coach Duncan Fletcher , who remains in his post but will now report to Shastri , who will be the overall in-charge of cricket affairs . Fielding coach Trevor Penney and bowling coach Joe Dawes have been asked to go on 'leave'. Sources suggested they had basically been suspended , with a call to be taken on their future after the series . In their place , the BCCI decided to enroll former India all-rounder and Kings XI Punjab coach Sanjay Bangar and former fast bowler and India under-19 coach Bharat Arun as assistant coaches . Bangar earned praise as coach of Kings XI and has also coached the India 'A ' outfit. U-19 assistant coach R Sridhar , who was previously part of the defunct National Cricket Academy ( NCA ) and fielding coach of Kings XI in the last IPL , will join as fielding coach for the ODIs in England . The board fell shy of taking action against Dhoni , whose role as Test captain has come under increased scrutiny , with BCCI secretary Sanjay Patel saying , " There is no need to remove Dhoni as captain. Our full support is with him for the entire series. The rest of the decisions will be taken by the selection committee. " While the official pronouncements on the issue seemed to suggest that Dhoni has the full backing of the establishment , sources within the board indicated that his position is secure for the moment only because there seem to be no viable options . Team India 's coaching staff has borne the brunt of the board 's displeasure over the England debacle with the BCCI officially backing skipper Dhoni . With core members of the squad , particularly the batsmen , failing on the England tour , any potential contenders for the captaincy will have to bide their time , BCCI sources indicated . The last time the BCCI hired former Indian players as assistant coaches was way back in 2007 . Incidentally , the contracts of Penney and Dawes -both brought in the coach -were extended earlier this year , as was Fletcher 's. Fletcher 's contract is set to expire in April 2015 . Shastri has in the past been the go-to man for the BCCI in times of crisis , having been appointed 'cricket manager ' for a tour of Bangladesh after Greg Chappell 's removal as coach following India 's poor show in the 2007 World Cup . " In culmination of the discussions among all the office-bearers of the BCCI over the last couple of weeks , the BCCI has decided to avail the services of former India captain , Mr Ravi Shastri , to oversee and guide the Indian cricket team for the forthcoming One-day International matches against England , " a BCCI statement said . The move is a clear indication that the BCCI is setting the stage for the removal of Fletcher , whose has had a poor tenure as coach and whose influence , or lack of it , on the players has often come under scrutiny. The new set-up makes his presence redundant . " It 's a message that has been sent out to Fletcher. We did n't want to sack him but make it amicable for him to leave , " a source told TOI . " The team is with Ravi Shastri. It is his baby. He will handle everything , " Patel said , adding : " We looked at all options. I must appreciate that Shastri readily agreed to work in the interests of the team. I asked him , 'This is a challenge , Ravi. ' He said , 'Sure Sanjay , we can work out something. ' " Interestingly , Shastri 's column in the TOI on Tuesday called upon the " glam boys " of the team to " do penance " . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
