Fletcher 's wings clipped , Shastri appointed Team Director The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Aug 19 , 2014 , 01.22PM IST 52-year-old Shastri , has played 80 Tests and 150 ODIs for India scoring 3830 and 3108 runs respectively. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Cracking the whip following India 's shambolic Test series against England , the BCCI on Tuesday virtually sidelined coach Duncan Fletcher by appointing former captain Ravi Shastri as the Team Director while giving a " break " to bowling coach Joe Dawes and fielding coach Trevor Penny for the upcoming one-day series . Under pressure to act after India 's disastrous performance in the Test series , the BCCI also appointed former players Sanjay Bangar and Bharat Arun as assistant coaches and R Sridhar as the fielding coach as it revamped the team management . While Fletcher will continue as the head coach of the team , the shake-up is a clear indication that his wings will be clipped with Shastri taking over as the Director for the one-day series beginning from August 25 . This is not the first time that Shastri has been appointed as a part of 'Damage Control ' exercise. In 2007 after the World Cup debacle in the West Indies , the former India all-rounder was appointed as a 'Cricket Manager ' for the tour of Bangladesh after Greg Chappell was sacked . " In culmination of the discussions among all the office-bearers of the BCCI over the last couple of weeks , the BCCI has decided to avail the services of former India captain , Mr. Ravi Shastri , to oversee and guide the Indian cricket team for the forthcoming one-day international matches against England , " a press release issued by the BCCI said . " Mr. Duncan Fletcher will continue as Head Coach while Ravi Shastri will be the overall in-charge of Cricket affairs of the Indian Team. " The support staff will have a more Indian look with Kings XI Punjab chief coach Sanjay Bangar , India U-19 coach Bharath Arun and colts fielding coach M V Sridhar being roped in place of Dawes and Penney . " In their continuing efforts to re-energise the support to the team , the BCCI has given a break to the bowling coach Mr Joe Dawes and the fielding coach , Trevor Penney , for the one-day series and appointed Sanjay Bangar , former Indian all-rounder , and former India fast bowler Bharath Arun as the Asst. coaches of the team . " R Sridhar will join the support team as the fielding coach for the one-day series. " 52-year-old Shastri , has played 80 Tests and 150 ODIs for India scoring 3830 and 3108 runs respectively. He also has 151 Test and 129 ODI wickets . India 's humiliating 1-3 defeat in the Test series had prompted many former cricketers to call for Fletcher 's immediate ouster , saying that he had not contributed anything . The former cricketers had also questioned the leadership abilities of captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni who has a poor track record in overseas conditions. The BCCI , however , has not disturbed Dhoni for the time being . Under Fletcher , India have now lost 13 Tests outside the sub-continent with seven in England , four in Australia , one each in New Zealand and South Africa . 41-year-old Bangar had played 12 Tests and 15 ODIs in early 2000 , with his gritty half-century at Headingley opening in overcast conditions in a memorable victory still remembered . Bangar , considered to be one of the brightest young coaches , had guided an unhrealded Kings XI Punjab team to the final of the IPL and has been widely acclaimed as a shrewd tactician with brilliant knowledge about the domestic set-up and its cricketers . Karn Sharma , a member of current India ODI team had made his debut under Bangar 's captaincy at the Railways and has attributed a lot of his success to him . Having only retired from active cricket a year earlier , Bangar is believed to have the best ringside view and is also seen as a future coach of the Indian cricket team by many . Bharath Arun had opened the bowling with legendary Kapil Dev in 2 Tests and 4 ODIs in the mid 80 's without much success . Arun , who will probably be the bowling coach , has been heading the NCA 's bowling unit for a close to seven years now and is best known for guiding the Unmukt Chand-led India U-19 team to World Cup victory in Australia back in 2012 . His record while coaching the senior teams has not been great as under his tutelege , the Bengal team relegated from Ranji Trophy 's Elite to Plate Group back in 2007-08 domestic season . Fielding coach R Sridhar , a former Ranji Trophy player for Hyderabad , has been India U-19 's fielding coach and the junior players swear by his work ethic. He has also been a fielding coach with the Kings XI Punjab in the IPL . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
