Gavaskar says club cricket is best form of cricket The author has posted comments on this article PTI | May 12 , 2014 , 06.50PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 BHUBANESWAR : Describing club cricket as the best form of cricket , legendary cricketer Sunil Gavaskar on Monday said it teaches players the way to carry weaker member of a team . " Club cricket is the best form of cricket. It teaches one to be friends with your rivals even as you compete hard with them on the ground , " Gavaskar said at a function organised by a local cricket club to felicitate him . Stating that one 's performance in club cricket gets the attention of the Ranji Trophy selectors , Gavaskar said " from Ranji , you go on to play Duleep Trophy and then international cricket. " In a message to the budding cricketers of the state , the legendary Indian opener said : " You must aim to achieve what your predecessors have failed to achieve. In your case , it would mean you should try your best to win the Ranji Trophy for the Odisha team , something that has not been achieved yet . " Similarly , if you go on to play international cricket , your aim should be to beat top teams like England and Australia 4-0 or 5-0 on their home turf , " he said . He also advised the young cricketers to make sure they wear the right shoes. " If your shoes are not right , it would affect every aspect of your cricket - batting , bowling and fielding , " he said . Requesting the parents and guardians of players to encourage their children and not stifle , he said " cricket teaches some of the finest values in life. " Gavaskar , appointed interim BCCI president for the duration of the IPL this season by the Supreme Court , commended IPL Chairman Ranjib Biswal for the excellent job that he had done. Biswal hails from Odisha . Odisha DGP Prakash Mishra , chief guest on the occasion , said he wished Gavaskar was appointed full time head of BCCI. Sports and Youth Affairs secretary Saswat Mishra , City police Commissioner R P Sharma and legendary coach Kishor Mania were also present on the occasion . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
