Give new players more time like I got : Virender Sehwag The author has posted comments on this article Arani Basu , TNN | Mar 30 , 2014 , 01.10AM IST On his own form , Sehwag was startlingly honest , saying that selectors had few reasons to bring him back into the team. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Exactly 10 years ago today , Virender Sehwag joined the club of India 's batting greats when he raced to the first triple hundred scored by an Indian in Test cricket . Since that day in Multan , Indian cricket has seen a sea change. And as he battles to get back into the Indian team , a wiser Sehwag does n't mind conceding he has done little to earn a comeback and that Indian cricket should stick with fresh faces . " I was given a lot of chances when I was young. I used to fire in one or two instances out of 10 hits. Yet , the team management stuck with me and only then the consistency came in. The same holds for the likes of Shikhar Dhawan. He should n't be under pressure after a few failures. Amit Mishra is also a good bowler and now that he has got his chances , he has started performing. Virat Kohli , Cheteshwar Pujara and Rohit Sharma have it in them to break my record of scoring triple hundreds. New faces should be given more time , " said the 35-year-old , firm in his opinion during the launch of a junior cricket tournament initiated by the Sehwag International School . A survivor of the 2004 side , Yuvraj Singh is struggling in the current set-up. Sehwag was quick to rise to his former teammate 's defence. " If you look at the numbers , Yuvi was the man-of-the-match only three T20s ago. He deserves a few more chances and we all know when he gets going he can turn a tournament in India 's favour , " he said . On his own form , Sehwag was startlingly honest , saying that selectors had few reasons to bring him back into the team. " I have n't scored runs , how can I expect to be recalled ? But every match and every tournament is a platform for me now to make a comeback. Just like when I scored a century for MCC recently in Abu Dhabi , people started talking about me coming back. " At this stage of his career , experience is what the swashbuckler is banking on and not leading Kings XI Punjab does n't fluster him . " For the amount of top-flight cricket I have played , I do n't need to worry about words like confidence and moral boosts. I had told coach Sanjay Bangar that I wo n't mind if I had to lead the team but if they had someone better to do the job then they should go ahead with him. And then he called up to say they had finalised George Bailey and he told me that I will still be a leader in the team. It does n't matter to me if I am the captain or not , " said Sehwag . In his efforts to grab the eyeballs of the selectors , the veteran 's batting position has been a talking point since he decided to drop to No. 4 when playing for Delhi . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
