Glenn McGrath to work with Indian pacers The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Aug 29 , 2014 , 12.15PM IST McGrath will work with some of the top pacers of the country. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : Glenn McGrath might have predicted difficult times for India in Australia later this year , but the Aussie legend will work with some of the top pacers of the country in the lead-up to the high-profile series . BCCI 's tie-up with MRF Pace Foundation has already been formalized and the first batch of trainees will be in Chennai from September 1-10 , working under McGrath. Leading the group of pacers is Varun Aaron , who made his debut in England , along with the likes of Ishwar Pandey and Ashok Dinda . With the beginning of the National Cricket Academy in 2000 , the BCCI had stopped sending their pacers to MRF Pace Foundation for training . Many of the pacers , though , came on their own to train under Dennis Lillee , the former coaching director , and now McGrath. Aaron and Pandey , in fact , have been MRF products , learning their trade under the Aussie pace greats . In the recent past , the relations between BCCI and MRF Pace Foundation have improved and the group of 11 pacers will be the first to be sent by BCCI to Chennai for training in 14 years . " The boys will be sent to the MRF Pace Foundation. The ties between BCCI and MRF have been renewed and we are happy that our bowlers will be working under McGrath , " a BCCI source told TOI on Thursday . The other pacers who will be sent in the first batch are Rahul Shukla , Veer Pratap Singh , Deepak Chahar , Nathu Singh , Ankit Rajput , Anureet Singh , Shardul Thakur and CV Milind . " We are looking at the best crop of pacers in the country to work under McGrath. I am sure it will stand them in good stead before a very important season , which includes the series to Australia and the 50-over World Cup Down Under , " the source added . The decision to send the pacers was taken in a working committee meeting of BCCI sometime back . " The fast bowlers will be here when McGrath conducts his camps , " the source added . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
