Greenish tinge at Lord 's lifts spirits in both camps The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 16 , 2014 , 08.41AM IST It 's more or less certain that Dhoni 's experiment with five bowlers will continue at Lord 's. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : The curator at Lord 's chose to keep the pitch under cover for better part of Tuesday in spite of a bright summer sun beating down on the square. It later transpired that his curious act was to retain the moisture content in the pitch and prevent it from drying out . When the 'veil ' was lifted off the pitch late afternoon , a greenish surface revealed itself , lifting spirits in both camps even though no one is sure just how much of the greenery will remain before the curtain goes up on the second Test between England and India on Thursday . Rival skippers Alastair Cook and Mahendra Singh Dhoni , who had made their disillusionment with the Trent Bridge pitch quite clear in their post-match comments , expect a much better playing surface here with pacers getting value for their efforts. In the given scenario , it 's more or less certain that Dhoni 's experiment with five bowlers will continue here . If the pitch retains it greenish visage , expect India to play the same XI that drew the first Test with Stuart Binny retaining his place in the line-up. However , if the pitch looks browner and drier , off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin will almost certainly play . It could be at the expense of one of the all-rounders , with Binny the most likely candidate to sit out . It would be a pity if Binny has to sit out after playing a match-saving knock of 78 on the final day at Trent Bridge . With the Indian team management advocating continuity , it was no surprise that coach Duncan Fletcher gave those who played in Nottingham the first hit in the nets on Tuesday . The fact that Ashwin , too , had a long bowl and was the last to leave the nets after finishing his batting stint indicated that he was very much in contention to make his maiden appearance at Lord 's . India 's main worry at this stage is lack of a significant contribution from their best batsman Virat Kohli in the run fest at Nottingham. During his two brief appearances at the crease , that lasted 45 minutes , Kohli appeared to be unsure of whether to go forward or back , and was trapped somewhere in between. He chose to bat against throw-downs in one of the outside nets during Tuesday 's practice in a bid to sort out his problems . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
