Has Mahendra Singh Dhoni run his course ? The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Aug 19 , 2014 , 08.57AM IST It 's time Dhoni asked himself if he is daunted by the prospect of leading this Test team. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 Even the best of ideas usually have short shelf lives. Not the idea of MS Dhoni as India 's Test skipper , though . The Indian captain , with all his strengths and limitations as a player and leader of men in the five-day format , knows this better than anyone else . After all , did n't he say , when asked after the culmination of India 's horror show in England on Sunday if he would resign , that " you asked me the same question in 2011 " ? Dhoni has been one of the most astute readers of the game , at least in the shorter formats. He knows the importance of learning the art of reinventing oneself , or he would n't have made runs in England with all his technical limitations . He also knows , as a sportsman , that he ca n't fight expiry dates. Or he would n't have said " you 'll have to wait and watch if I am strong enough or not strong enough " when asked if he would resign from Test captaincy . The problem is , " waiting and watching " is n't what good cricket teams do , and India have been doing just that at least since 2011 , as Dhoni himself suggested. It is n't about one Test loss , or even one series defeat . Dhoni 's captaincy , much like his batting and wicketkeeping , has often been an exhibition of mental strength and street-smartness overcoming basic technical deficiencies . It can be argued that the idea can only go so far in a format where you are rigorously under the scanner for days at an end and the typical 'quick-fix ' attitude to on-field crisis ca n't fetch you long-term results . It could also be the case that Dhoni is not to blame for India 's batting failures and the inability of some of India 's best batsmen to adjust to conditions and rectify their mistakes , which eventually played the biggest role in the defeat to England . What is clear is that even after India losing 13 and winning one of their last 17 overseas Tests , opinion is divided on whether Dhoni should quit Test captaincy . Even as a wide range of eminent cricketers , from Martin Crowe to Dilip Vengsarkar , feel Dhoni has run out of ideas and should go , others like Ian Chappell and Anshuman Gaekwad believe Dhoni can not be faulted for the persistently poor run of his batsmen . When it comes to the media and fans , Dhoni the man has created a shield around himself Captain America would be proud of. His methods remain inscrutable. There is no denying , though , that he has often come across as a player not too keen on the traditional format. Sunday was n't the first time he has hinted at quitting from Tests . Following a similar horror run in England and Australia , Dhoni had said in January 2012 , " If I want to see the 2015 World Cup , I 'll have to retire from one of the formats ( no prizes for guessing which ) . We 'll see by the end of 2013. " The year has come and gone , and Dhoni is still here. So are the poor Test results . On Sunday he even said something totally out of place ( " do n't be jealous of the IPL " ) when asked if India was too focused on the shorter formats . Dhoni even seemed relieved at the Oval post match ceremony that the Test series was over , saying , " The One-day format... we have some new players coming in and it 's not as demanding. " It 's time Dhoni asked himself if he is daunted by the prospect of leading this Test team , which seems prone to repeating its mistakes. It may be a good idea to look in the mirror and ask if it hurts to lose a Test series. Does he value Test success enough to inject enthusiasm for the format among some of his players ? Does he have any Test ambitions left ? It 's well-known Dhoni 's influence stretches to the administration too , and a similar apathy seems to have enveloped India 's cricket board when it comes to changes . " The time for action may have come and gone , and we should ideally have asked this question about Dhoni 's place a Test skipper before India left for England , " Anshuman Gaekwad who does n't believe Dhoni should be sacked now , told TOI . " The problem is deeper. If the batsmen had scored runs and India had drawn the series , would we be asking this question ? It 's clear our Test culture needs a relook. But if no Dhoni as Test skipper , then who ? Conversely , can anybody else a Test skipper do any worse ? Dhoni ' bizarre tactics and muddled team selection have been talking points throughout the England series but it 's clear that rank bad fielding , poor batting and inferior implementation of strategies by the bowlers are equally to blame for Dhoni 's dreadful overseas Test record . Does this Indian team have a slipshod attitude to Tests , and is it willing to invest in the much higher levels of commitment , focus , skill and patience the format requires ? Can Dhoni still be the motivator India needs ? The answers lie with India 's se lection committee . Times View It is time MS Dhoni was dropped as captain of India 's Test team. A string of away series defeats in England , Australia , South Africa and New Zealand under his watch have seen India 's stature as a Test playing nation severely diminished and the loss at home to England in 2012-13 has only added to the feeling that Dhoni 's heart is simply not in the longest version. With any other individual , the debate would long since have been settled , but the current captain 's proximity to the powers-that-be of Indian and world cricket as well as -to be fair to him -his considerable achievements as captain in the 50-over format have helped him stay on. But enough is enough. Those still backing Dhoni point out that the primary reason for India 's abject surrender in England was a collective batting failure , in which the captain was somewhat of an exception , not tactical blemishes in captaincy. There is some merit in that argument , but a captain in not merely a tactician , he must also be a motivator. The last two Tests showed quite clearly that the unit under him had lost its will to fight and he must shoulder much of the responsibility. They also ask , 'if not Dhoni , who ? ' We strongly feel that is the wrong question. That there is nobody else capable of donning the mantle of captain is an assumption that can only be tested by trying out somebody else. How much worse can it get , anyway ? A signal must be sent that poor performance has consequences. Today , the core of the team seems to feel that its place is secure. That has to change and only shock therapy will do it . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
