Hosts England Cook up a Test revival The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 28 , 2014 , 06.01AM IST With 8231 runs in his kitty , Cook is now England 's third-highest run-getter in Tests. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SOUTHAMPTON : It was a hard day 's work for Indian bowlers , who were made to toil on a docile Ageas Bowl pitch by England 's top order which laid the foundation for a big total after skipper Alastair Cook won the toss and elected to bat in the third Test here on Sunday . The woefully out-of-form Cook finally redeemed himself with an innings of substance --his first in last 10 outings --but fell five short of his 26th Test hundred as England stole the opening-day honours by posting a healthy 247/2 . Gary Ballance , who has made the No. 3 spot his own after having inherited it from Jonathan Trott , logged his third century in six Tests -- his second on the trot in the series -- to upstage his skipper with whom he shared a 158run partnership for the second wicket . Ballance , who had struck a brilliant 110 at Lord 's and has n't put a foot wrong in the series , negotiated the second new ball well and was unbeaten on 104 in the company of Ian Bell ( 16 ) , who like Cook , is searching for form . India started the Test on a wrong note after being forced to replace an injured Ishant Sharma with Pankaj Singh , who toiled manfully on his Test debut. India sorely missed Ishant 's pace and will be certainly worse off without his ability to extract bounce on a surface that has something in it for those willing to bend their back . Cook showed remarkable application even as he battled for over four hours to come within sniffing distance of ending his 27-innings century drought . In doing so , he went through long periods without hitting a single boundary , but did n't let his intensity drop. Sam Robson ( 26 ) , who had earlier shared a 55-run opening stand with his skipper , was India 's lone success in the first two sessions which were won by England even though both Cook and Ballance survived anxious moments and were beaten by the occasional " effort " ball from Indian pacers . Cook had his share of luck as well. His edge off the very first ball of the day from Bhuvneshwar Kumar fell tantalizingly short of second slip and Ravindra Jadeja put down a knee-high catch when Cook , batting on 15 , poked at Pankaj 's away-going delivery . He also survived a close run out call , but went on to complete his 36th half-century. With 8231 runs in his kitty , Cook is now England 's third-highest run-getter in Tests behind Alec Stewart ( 8463 ) and Graham Gooch ( 8900 ) . He overtook David Gower ( 8231 ) when he scampered for his 70th run here . He fell at the fag end of the day while trying to flick Jadeja and the snickometer showed a faint edge. It was a sad end to a fine innings , but with the monkey off his back now , Cook will be looking to cashing in from here on . Indian pacers bowled with a lot of heart . Pankaj bowled straight and full in his maiden spell in Test cricket. Bhuvneshwar , the hero of the first two Tests , lacked the pace to be effective on the surface on offer , while Shami bowled too short even though he was rewarded with a wicket of Robson when he pitched it up. Jadeja , as is his wont , did n't give anything away , but the lack of penetration was palpable . Earlier , India made two changes to the XI that had won at Lord 's. Apart from Pankaj coming in for the injured Ishant , skipper MS Dhoni opted to play safe by going back to the seven-batsman formula as Rohit Sharma replaced Stuart Binny . England to made a couple of surprise changes by replacing both their back-up pacers -- Liam Plunkett and Ben Stokes -- with Chris Jordan and Chris Woakes , apart from handing young wicketkeeper-batsman Jos Buttler his debut . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
