How India can bounce back The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Aug 21 , 2014 , 09.13AM IST BCCI appointed Ravi Shastri as a director of cricket affairs superseding coach Duncan Fletcher and skipper MS Dhoni. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 With the Indian cricket board ( BCCI ) appointing Ravi Shastri as a director of cricket affairs superseding coach Duncan Fletcher and skipper MS Dhoni , it 's time to focus on improving performance ahead of the one-day series in England. TOI takes a look at what can be done by the new dispensation to ensure better results.. . MAKE PLAYERS ANSWERABLE TO 'DESI ' SUPPORT STAFF A flustered BCCI has replaced the foreign flavour in the support staff - fielding coach Trevor Penny and bowling coach Joe Dawes - with Indians Sanjay Bangar ( assistant coach ) , Bharat Arun ( bowling coach ) and R Sridhar ( fielding coach ) . With effective communication the need of the hour , can they , along with Shastri , make a difference where Fletcher and Co failed ? The support staff 's job is not easy. They all know their appointment is a damage-control exercise , and might even be a temporary one. Can they rise to the challenge ? WORK ON FAULTY TECHNIQUE OF THE BATSMEN Though India fared poorly in all the three departments - batting , bowling and fielding - during the Tests , the main problem clearly was the batting. Since the first innings in the third Test at Southampton , the visitors could n't put together more than 200 on the board , with things reaching rock bottom at the Oval , where the entire side folded for 94 to lose the Test by an innings and 244 runs . The faulty technique of some of India 's biggest batting stars was exposed against the moving ball in helpful conditions. Bred on featherbeds , these batsmen struggled against the seam and swing generated by James Anderson and Stuart Broad. A predominantly side-on stance , minimal feet movement and not knowing where their off stump cost the Pujaras and Kohlis dear. A majority of the top order nicked deliveries to the slip cordon or got bowled or LBW trying to leave the ball . What was surprising , though , was how they kept repeating their mistakes and refused to address technical shortcomings. To improve in the Onedayers , they must clearly acknowledge their deficiencies. This is where the support staff comes in . INJECT FRESH IDEAS ON THE FIELD There is an urgent need to inject fresh ideas and enthusiasm. Though the bowlers have fared better , they have seemed devoid of ideas , pitching it short and wide when consistently bowling a good or fuller length outside the off stump would have worked better. The spinners have looked to contain rather than attack. The fielding was the worst that India have produced in a long , long time , with the slip cordon being the chief culprit. Even the captaincy has often seemed listless . PERSIST WITH 'DIRECTOR OF CRICKET ' POST Ravi Shastri is calling the shots now , but how long will this new dispensation last ? If , as director of cricketing affairs , even chief selector Sandeep Patil will report to Shastri , the board must ensure the player-turned-commentator is given a decently long stint at the helm to make effective changes . Shastri 's position is n't the first of its kind in cricket. Former England coach Andy Flower , now the technical director with the England and Wales Cricket Board ( ECB ) , was known as the team director , while Pat Howard has been the GM , team performance , of the Australian team since Nov 2011. Even New Zealand had a director of cricket with the national team till last year . For positive results , the board has to appoint Shastri on a longterm basis. To be effective , he must have complete say in team selection , and maybe even have a say in on-field strategies. Whether Shastri is willing to stick around for long , though , is the big question , but the BCCI must persist with the new post it has created if performance is to improve . IMPROVE CONFIDENCE LEVELS Can Team Shastri succeed where Dhoni and Fletcher have clearly failed , and motivate this dispirited and shaky lot to rediscover the fire ? One of India 's biggest problems is a crisis of confidence , and when your best batsmen seem leadenfooted at the crease it 's time for a rude awakening. This will be the biggest challenge for the new dispensation . PUT DHONI ON NOTICE While Zimbabwean Fletcher 's authority has been eroded , lack of options have led to Dhoni retaining his captaincy.Although Dhoni is still India 's best bet as ODI skipper , he must realize nonperformance will have its ramifications.More importantly , how motivated is Dhoni to lead his team to victory again in the next World Cup , which is less than six months away ? Does he have new peaks to conquer as captain and player ? These questions must be clearly put to Dhoni.He must be made accountable for his often-questionable on-field decisions , and his influence over team selection must be reduced . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
