Ian Bell named England 's 2013-14 player of year The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jun 10 , 2014 , 10.32AM IST Bell , for much of his career a 'rising star ' , is now one of England 's senior players. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Ian Bell said he wanted to " lead from the front " after being named England 's Cricketer of the Year on Monday . The 32-year-old Warwickshire batsman won the award , voted for by the English cricket media , on the back of making three centuries and two fifties during England 's 3-0 home Ashes series win against Australia last year . But that series was quickly overshadowed by England 's 5-0 thrashing in Australia in 2013/14 . " I do n't think we reacted well to the problems we had and there has been plenty of fall out since , " said Bell in what appeared to be a reference to the post-Australia tour ditching of star batsman Kevin Pietersen and Andy Flower 's replacement as coach by Peter Moores . " When you step back from it all and have a look , I think we got blindsided by Australia . " It is horrible to come away from that with a 5-0 scoreline , but it will be a good experience in the long run for the younger players who were on that trip . " Back in 2006/07 , myself , Cooky ( current captain Alastair Cook ) , Straussy ( retired skipper Andrew Strauss ) , Jimmy ( Anderson and KP ( Pietersen ) were all on that tour when we lost 5-0 and we all came back in 2010/11 and won that series . " There is no reason why on the next tour of Australia the ( Joe ) Roots , the ( Gary ) Ballances , the ( Ben ) Stokes ca n't go back and win. " " It is easy to look at the winter and get down , but we have done some good stuff too recently , " insisted Bell , who received his award during a dinner at Lord 's -- the venue for Thursday 's first Test against Sri Lanka . " To win three Ashes on the bounce means we must have been doing something right. " Thirteen Tests have now passed since England managed the benchmark score of 400 in an innings . Bell , for much of his career a 'rising star ' , is now one of England 's senior players and should reach the landmark of 100 Tests in this month 's second and final Test against Sri Lanka at Headingley . " You 're looking for the senior players to lead the way so of course myself and Cooky have to shoulder plenty of responsibility in that department , " Bell said . " We are the men who have been there and done it and scored the big hundreds , so it is time for us to do so again . " Hopefully , this ( award ) is the start of something special for me and the team , helping some of these young guys through into the team . " Part of that is me playing well as a senior player and leading from the front , " said Bell , whose 98 Tests have yielded 6,722 runs , including 20 hundreds , at an average of 45.41 . As for playing 100 Tests , Bell reflected on the words of England great Graham Gooch . " It 's a funny one because you are thinking of your 100th one but , as Goochie says , the only match that means anything or the only innings that means anything is the one you 're in right now. " This season has seen England push back its home Test programme , reducing the chances of matches being played on typically English green , seaming pitches . Bell believes that will work in favour of Sri Lanka , who beat their hosts 3-2 in a recent one-day series , and especially star batsmen Mahela Jayawardene and Kumar Sangakkara . " You only have to look at the two guys in their team who will go down as two of the greatest of all time , " Bel said . " They 've got absolute quality through their side. " It is not early season anymore , so they 'll be a lot more comfortable. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
