ICC cricket committee discusses burning issues of game The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jun 6 , 2014 , 01.54PM IST The Cricket Committee was also updated on the deliberations of the Working Group the ICC established to review the use of technology in umpiring . Page 1 of 4 BANGALORE : Run-outs of non-striker batsmen backing up too early , the rising instances of confrontation among players and means to improve the use of technology in umpiring dominated the discussions at a two-day meeting of the ICC 's cricket committee . The committee , headed by former Indian captain Anil Kumble , deliberated on the major issues facing the game and came up with its suggestions to deal with them . " The Cricket Committee believes that a non-striker should be deterred from leaving his or her crease before the time the bowler normally delivers the ball , " the ICC said in a statement . " It did not support a formal warning being introduced prior to a bowler being eligible to run out a non-striker , but it did support the view expressed by some captains that the umpires should n't ask the captain whether he wanted the appeal to stand before making a final decision . " The Law strikes a sensible balance between preventing a batsman from gaining an advantage whilst at the same time preventing the bowler from unfairly seducing the batsman into leaving his crease by faking to deliver and then holding on to the ball , " it added . On the use of technology in umpiring decisions , the committee felt more needed to be done to improve the rate of success . " One concern related to the checking of No balls on the fall of a wicket , and the delay caused by stopping a dismissed batsman from leaving the field while the replays of the No ball were reviewed , " the ICC said . " The committee was very positive about the Officiating Replay System ( ORS ) used during the latter stages of the World T20 in Bangladesh , which consists of a dedicated screen and an operator who sits in the TV umpire 's room and provides the TV umpire with instant replays from any camera angle . " This system can be used in either DRS or non-DRS matches , and can help umpires make accurate decisions quickly , particularly boundary and No ball checks , " it added . The committee unanimously supported the expanded use of this system in international cricket , and this recommendation will be considered by the Chief Executives later in June from 22 to 28 . The committee also considered the performance of the Decision Review System ( DRS ) , from the technology and TV umpiring errors that occurred during the Ashes in the UK , to some of the noticeable improvements made to the DRS in the second half of the season . " Overall the use of the DRS increased the Correct Decision rate by 4.4 per cent during the season. " The Cricket Committee was also updated on the deliberations of the Working Group the ICC established to review the use of technology in umpiring . " It supported one of the strong recommendations from the Working Group , that all technology used in decision-making should be independently evaluated prior to being included on a revised list of technologies approved for use in DRS matches. It was advised that this testing is likely to commence in the second half of 2014. " Kumble said the discussions were fruitful. " We have enjoyed two very productive days of meetings in which the committee discussed a wide range of issues. I thank the members for their insight and value their recommendations , which will now be taken forward to the ICC Chief Executives ' Committee and the ICC Board later this month in Melbourne . " On player behaviour , the committee felt there needs to be better decorum on the field and umpires should not hesitate to act strict. The committee noted an increase in the number of reports made under the Code of Conduct during 2013-14 , and encouraged umpires to continue to take strong action when player behaviour crossed acceptable boundaries . " There was particular concern about the number of reports laid for inappropriate contact between players , as many of these instances had the potential to escalate and create an ugly confrontation , " the statement read . The committee also discussed the balance between bat and ball in international cricket , noting a sharp increase in the number of sixes hit in ODI cricket over the past six months . " The committee will be keeping a close watch on the performance of cricket bats moving forward. In the short term , the committee was of the strong view that venues must be set-up to their maximum boundary dimensions , having observed a noticeable distance between the rope and the perimeter fence at some international grounds . " The current ICC playing conditions direct that the largest possible playing area be provided subject to a maximum boundary size of 90 yards from the centre of the pitch. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
