ICC may appeal James Anderson verdict The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 4 , 2014 , 02.04AM IST The Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) had gone straight to the ICC and pressed Level 3 charge against Anderson after the team management had insisted on it. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MANCHESTER : The countdown for an ICC appeal against judicial commissioner Gordon Lewis ' 'not-guilty ' verdict on the spat between James Anderson and Ravindra Jadeja has begun . With Lewis listing the submissions and his own concerns in the case , ICC chief executive Dave Richardson has seven days to file an appeal if the world cricket body feels unhappy with the verdict . The Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) had gone straight to the ICC and pressed Level 3 charge against Anderson after the team management had insisted on it . The ICC , now headed by N Srinivasan , must quickly decide whether justice had been done in the case after Lewis let both Anderson and Jadeja off the hook. If the ICC bosses are unhappy with the verdict , they have a right to appeal . If they exercise their right to do so , a three-member appeals panel will be constituted to hear the matter afresh and Anderson will be back in the dock. He can , however , continue to play till the appeal , if filed , is disposed of . Jadeja 's case will not be under review even if the ICC appeals against Lewis ' verdict because his part of the hearing was conducted under a different clause and on an appeal from BCCI , whereas in Anderson 's case , the ICC was the prosecutor . This complex situation would not have arisen had the whole issue , which is now three weeks old , had been handled more prudently by the BCCI as well as the England and Wales Cricket Board ( ECB ) . By turning down ECB 's request to tone down their charge against Anderson from Level 3 to Level 2 , the BCCI not only overplayed their hand but also invited a tit-for-tat countercharge against Jadeja by the hosts. More so , because there was no clinching audio or video evidence to prove who was the guilty party in spat between the two players . With fellow players appearing as eye witnesses for either side choosing to be highly biased towards their teammates , the judicial commissioner was quick to discard their testimony . In fact there was so little evidence before Lewis that he had no choice but to let both players go. That is something Lewis has admitted to , if a report based on his leaked verdict is to be believed . What remains unexplained is Lewis ' reluctance to even book the duo for breaching the ICC Code of Conduct for players. After all , the ECB had admitted that Anderson had pushed Jadeja , but had done so in self-defence after the Indian all-rounder had turned aggressively towards him . Indian captain MS Dhoni is believed to have stopped Jadeja and shepherded him back to the dressing room. Even if there was no concrete evidence of physical contact , there are enough pointers to conclude that whatever happened between the two was certainly not gentlemanly and in the spirit of the game . The ICC , in the past , has fined and punished players for lesser offences. Letting Anderson , who has never been a model cricketer , and Jadeja , who celebrated his 50 at Lord 's by waving his bat like a sword , go without even a rap on their knuckles sends out a wrong signal . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
