ICC to empower on-field umpires to call for chucking The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Sep 16 , 2014 , 11.47AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : The decision to ban Saeed Ajmal for chucking is the first step towards 'operation clean-up ' , which the new management of the International Cricket Council ( ICC ) has undertaken on a war footing . It 's understood that the world body is planning to empower on-field umpires , whereby they can call bowlers with suspect action for chucking . ICC authorities feel that a match is often decided by a bowler who is chucking and that has to be stopped. For that to happen , it 's crucial that the on-field umpire has the power to call a bowler and stop him from altering the course of a game. The rule ca n't be implemented before the 2015 World Cup , because the playing conditions have already been set . To minimize the threat of chuckers in the World Cup , the world body has taken a stand against bowlers with suspect actions. " The idea is to ensure a fair game of cricket and the world body will go all the way to ensure that , " a source told TOI on Monday . The ICC was eager to empower umpires before the World Cup but it 's too late now . " That 's something that is going to happen in future. A game can not be decided by unfair means , " the source added . There was huge uproar in the late 1990s when Australian umpires Ross Emerson and Darrell Hair called Muttiah Muralitharan for chucking. Consequently , the ICC stepped in and devised a rule whereby an umpire could report a bowler who bowls with a dodgy action . The controversial 15 degree rule also came in whereby a bowler was allowed to straighten his arm to a certain degree. Now , the ICC is getting strict again . DOOSRA NOT ILLEGAL : SAQLAIN KARACHI : Retired spin king Saqlain Mushtaq on Monday defended the controversial 'doosra ' delivery he invented , which has come under renewed scrutiny since fellow Pakistani Saaed Ajmal 's chucking ban . " Who says doosra is illegal ? " he asked. " It can be easily delivered within the allowed rules. It is not an easy delivery to bowl but if a bowler becomes an expert if he does n't transgress. You need to have strong muscles to bowl a 'doosra ' , then fitness matters , also grip , rhythm and follow through. If just one of these things is missing then you get out of limits , " he added . AJMAL HOPES TO PLAY WORLD CUP Pakistan 's suspended Saeed Ajmal has not given up hope on playing in the 2015 World Cup. " I do n't take it as a pressure or tension. For me it is a challenge. Obviously I am saddened like every other Pakistani because of the ban. But I am confident that with the help of a legend like Saqlain Mushtaq and our coaches I can get back into international cricket before the World Cup , " he said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
