If Ajmal is strong , he will overcome this : Muralitharan The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Sep 19 , 2014 , 12.28PM IST Murali feels that it would largely depend on Ajmal himself on how he comes out triumphant in his hour of crisis. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : There is one man who would exactly know how Saeed Ajmal would be feeling right now. It is unlikely that the Pakistan off-spinner would have had a single night of decent sleep ever since he was banned from international cricket for an alleged 'illegal ' action . Almost 20 years ago , Test cricket 's top wicket-taker Muttiah Muralitharan , then a young offie who had just begun to gain strides in top-level cricket , experienced something similar . Much to his entire country 's consternation , the Sri Lankan spinner was 'called ' for chucking multiple times during his team 's tour to Australia . Murali 's public humiliation marred the series , and served as a catalyst for Sri Lanka 's triumph in the 1996 World Cup , as the whole team rallied around him . As Pakistan great Javed Miandad pointed out , Ajmal can certainly take inspiration from Murali , who bounced back each time his action was questioned - he was banned from bowling the 'doosra ' in 2004 . Murali himself , though , feels that it would largely depend on Ajmal himself on how he comes out triumphant in his hour of crisis . " It is difficult to say how he would or should cope with it , because it depends on your personality , how strong you are in tacking obstacles that may appear along the way. If you are mentally strong , you will bounce back , if you 're weak , you 'll be finished , " Muralitharan told TOI on Thursday . The Lankan great , who finished his career with 800 Test wickets , felt that the best way to overcome this phase for Ajmal would be to 'prove it to people that he is n't doing anything wrong.' " In my case , I was naturally upset when the allegations ( of chucking the ball ) were first made against me. After all , you 're only a human ! However , I believed in myself. I wanted to prove it that I was n't doing anything wrong. I cleared around six-seven Tests during my almost two-decade old career. Once he proves it that his action is legal , and the 'bend ' in his arm while delivering the ball is below 15 degrees , he can bowl again , " said Murali , who is ironically now a spin bowling coach with the Australian team for their series against Pakistan in UAE . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
