I keep learning from Dhoni : Brendon McCullum The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Sep 14 , 2014 , 11.20AM IST Brendon McCullum has been training with Chennai Super Kings over the last few days , preparing for the Champions League T20. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : Brendon McCullum has been training with Chennai Super Kings over the last few days , preparing for the Oppo Champions League T20. He might be the New Zealand captain , but while playing for CSK , he is another member of the unit who is always ready to come up with his inputs , helping skipper MS Dhoni along the way. During a chat with TOI ahead of a practice session on Saturday , McCullum spoke about all these and much more. Excerpts : You have been part of three IPL franchises in different times. How is the CSK experience different ? I played with Kochi Tuskers for a year and five years with Kolkata Knight Riders and enjoyed all of it. But yes , CSK is a very well-led and wellmanaged unit with some quality coaching staff. The game plan is very deliberate and it 's a matter of fitting into it . Keeping , being the No. 1 batsman in the team and captaincy - how difficult is it to balance the three ? It has its demands , but you only play for a certain amount of time and the bigger impact you have is better. As far as I am concerned , I enjoy the extra responsibility when I am doing it for New Zealand or Otago ( in the Champions League last year ) . When I am playing for CSK , the situation is different with MS in charge. There are four other guys who have been captains of their national team and in addition to that , there 's ( Suresh ) Raina and ( Ravichandran ) Ashwin , who form a part of the leadership group. When I play for CSK , I try to learn from how MS goes about his work and enjoy not having to take up the responsibility myself . How important was Adam Gilchrist 's role in revolutionizing the 'keeper-batsman 's role ? Gilly absolutely changed how the rest of us would play our cricket. Before him , a keeper was expected to keep well and the runs would have been a bit of a bonus. But after Gilly , so many of us came along -from ( Mark ) Boucher to ( Kumar ) Sangakkara , who is an absolute genius. There 's of course Dhoni and now AB ( de Villiers ) -but it all started from Gilly . He changed what was expected of the keeper . How would you compare Dhoni and Adam Gilchrist ? In ODIs MS is out on his own , but in Test cricket Gilly was so destructive. I think MS is more about the total package - how he navigates through certain circumstances , his calm presence and of course his batting. Apparently there might be some similarities , but Gilly and MS are different characters. I feel Gilly set the benchmark for Australia how they are going to dominate the opposition . What makes you such a big hit in T20 cricket ? You have to be prepared to get out when you are playing T20s. There will be times when you get out cheaply , but you can not compromise with your instinctive attacking mind-set . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
