India , England ponder over combination for second Test The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 17 , 2014 , 10.20AM IST Dhoni will be hoping that his luck with the toss would hold so that his pacers can have a crack at the England batsmen when the pitch is fresh and green. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : The controversial spat between India 's Ravindra Jadeja and England 's James Anderson at Trent Bridge is just not cricket , but it has surely put the two teams on the edge before the second Test at Lord 's gets underway on Thursday . After both teams failed to breathe life into the opening Test on a 'dead ' pitch at Nottingham , the one at Lord 's , with much of its greenery intact , holds out hope of producing a result . Having misread the Trent Bridge surface completely , and erred in team selection , the two team managements now have little option but to stick to the same XI here. Having toyed with the possibility of playing an extra spinner here , both India and England have not ruled out the possibility of fielding R Ashwin and Simon Kerrigan , respectively , but even if they take that unlikely call , it will be only before the coin goes up . India captain MS Dhoni , who has now won six tosses in a row , will be hoping that his luck would hold so that his pacers can have a crack at the England batsmen when the pitch is fresh and green. With the London sky continuing to be overcast intermittently , it is unlikely the pitch will lose any moisture and flatten out as the match progresses . Other than Virat Kohli 's lack of runs , India 's main worry will be the inexperience of their players. Barring Dhoni and Ishant Sharma , none of the players have previously played at cricket 's most celebrated cauldron. It will be a bigger challenge for bowlers as well as fielders to adjust to the seven-foot gradient that stretches across the Grand Stand to the Tavern . Historically , bowlers from the sub-continent have struggled to get it right on this unique playing surface that hides the deception in its bowels. But those who make the adjustments , especially pacers , get good value for their effort. It is just the kind of surface where the likes of Anderson and Stuart Broad can wreak havoc with the extra yard of pace they have at their command. And unlike Trent Bridge , the ball will carry to the wicketkeeper at a decent height which is bound to test batsmen . Experts say , the key to making runs here is knowing where your off-stump is and letting everything outside it go through to the man with the big gloves. With the ball coming on to the bat , there will be plenty of opportunities to score runs. It is something that Kohli will do well to keep in mind . It will be a crucial test for England captain Alastair Cook . The clamour in the media surrounding his form is growing louder with every failure and his latest one at Trent Bridge , where he was bowled behind his pads by Mohammad Shami , did not inspire much confidence . If England fail to force victory here and Cook does n't get runs , the home team could well have a new captain for the third Test. Asked whether he his team had any special plans for Cook , the Indian captain was very charitable . " The thing about poor form is that you can al so regain it in 10 minutes in the middle. We do have our plans and strategies in place but it is not individual-specific. It is for the England team as a whole , " said Dhoni . England will be hoping that the controversy will fire up Anderson and the players to put it across an Indian team that is already looking like a bunch of unhappy tourists early in to their long itinerary . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
