Indian batsmen slump against England pacers The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 8 , 2014 , 10.12AM IST Dhoni 's 71 was instrumental in India putting at least 150 runs on the board. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MANCHESTER : It was like one of those horror flicks where if you miss the first few minutes , you struggle to catch the plot . It indeed looked very spooky when India lost their top four for just eight runs in 31 balls after their captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni won the toss and elected to bat under an overcast sky and on Old Trafford 's moisture-laden pitch . But with Indian batsmen bent upon self-destruction , there was no Hitchcockian twist in the tale. But for a counter-attacking knock of 71 from Dhoni and an entertaining 40 by R Ashwin on his comeback , there was nothing of note in the Indian innings that produced just 152 runs and lasted less than a one-day innings . At stumps , the hosts were 113 for 3 after losing the wickets of Sam Robson to Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Alastair Cook and Gary Balance to Varun Aaron . It was indeed a lively track with good pace , bounce and some demons in it. James Anderson , condoned for abusing Ravindra Jadeja at Trent Bridge , continued to torment Indian batsmen by making the ball talk in conditions tailormade for his brand of bowling . The skill with which he bent the ball , making it dart either way in the air and off the seam , made you wonder why he lets his mouth do so much talking in the first place . And with Stuart Broad putting off surgery on his injured ankle till the end of the series to lend a helping hand to Anderson , England did not need much back-up support . A peep at old records showed that it was India 's worst start in 62 years --a slight improvement on their bone-chilling four-down for no score at Leeds in 1952 --but they never looked like repairing the early damage and get the innings back on an even keel . It looked like a 'fishing ' competition after the match got off to a delayed start ( 30 mins ) because of an early morning drizzle. England 's five-man slip cordon and wicketkeeper Jos Buttler had a busy time as Anderson and Broad kept the ball up and swung it appreciably . Gautam Gambhir , back in whites after almost two years , showed no foot movement as Broad squared him up with one that left him and the resultant edge was held by Joe Root at gully. Murali Vijay , who left 9 of the 14 balls he faced , was forced to play at one from Anderson that moved away late and Alastair Cook held the edge low down . Virat Kohli 's miserable tour continued when he edged the second ball he faced to give Anderson his second wicket , while Broad accounted for Cheteshwar Pujara by having him drive away from his body . Ajinkya Rahane showed why he has been one of the more successful Indian batsmen on this tour with a brief knock that promised much before ending in disappointment. His 54-run partnership with Dhoni arrested the slide , but when he too perished behind the wicket while trying to drive ambitiously , shortly before the lunch break , India were back in the dock at 62/5 . There was no change in the script for India after lunch as Anderson trapped Jadeja leg before wicket to add insult to injury before Ashwin contributed a brisk 40 off 42 balls in a 66-run partnership with Dhoni to give the Indian innings a coat of self-respect . Ashwin , who was easily the best Indian batsman on view , however , went for an overambitious pull off Broad to gift his wicket away . Realising that the end of the innings was near , Dhoni went on the attack and gathered some useful runs. Dhoni , who lived a charmed life with edges off his blade either falling short or wide of the slip fielders , finally perished while trying to pull Broad . His 133-ball 71 was not his best knock but it was instrumental in India putting at least 150 runs on the board . Broad , who snapped up four wickets in 21 balls after lunch , made sure India packed up for 152 and he finished with fantastic figures of six for 25 -by far his best show against India . England went into the match unchanged from Southampton , while India made three changes , bring in Gambhir , Ashwin and Varun Aaron in place of Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma and Mohammad Shami . INDIA 'S QUACK RECORD : 6 DUCKS IN AN INNINGS India on Thursday became the 4th team in Test history to register six ducks in an innings as England bowled them out for 152 . The other three teams with this dubious distinction are Pakistan ( 128 ) against West Indies in 1980-81 at Karachi ; South Africa ( 105 ) against India at Ahmedabad in 1996-97 ; Bangladesh ( 87 ) vs WI at Dhaka in 2002-03 . It was the second time in India 's Test history that three of the top four batsmen got out without scoring. The previous instance was in the second innings of the Leeds Test in 1952 . That India made 152 was thanks to skipper MS Dhoni , who scored a gritty 71 ( 133 balls , 154 ) . R Ashwin ( 40 ) and Ajinkya Rahane ( 24 ) were the only other players to reach double figures . Dhoni equalled S African John Waite 's record of 7 fifties by a wicketkeeper against England in England . India slumped from 8 for 0 to 8 for 4 within the space of 13 deliveries as Stuart Broad ( 6-25 ) and James Anderson ( 3-46 ) ran riot . India , who won the toss , made three changes to the side that lost the 3rd Test , bringing in R Ashwin for Rohit Sharma , Gautam Gambhir for Shikhar Dhawan and pacer Varun Aaron for Mohd Shami . Broad 's ( at left ) performance was his best ever against India . Alastair Cook equalled Sunil Gavaskar 's feat of 106 Tests in succession . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
