Indian youngsters look to shine in Bangladesh The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jun 14 , 2014 , 11.30AM IST The second-string Indian side is led by Suresh Raina. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 DHAKA : India 's fringe players will have a chance to impress the selectors in the build-up to next year 's cricket World Cup on Sunday when they begin a short one-day series tour to Bangladesh . The visitors are without eight regulars , including captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni and the prolific Virat Kohli , for the three day-night matches , which will all be played at the Sher-e-Bangla stadium in the capital Dhaka and led by Suresh Raina . Just four members of the squad -- Cheteshwar Pujara , Ajinkya Rahane , Stuart Binny and Wriddhiman Saha -- will fly to England later in the month for a marquee tour comprising five Tests , five ODIs and one Twenty20 . The series offers the likes of Pujara , who has six Test centuries but has played in just two one-dayers , a chance to stake their claims to a place in the squad for next year 's World Cup in Australia and New Zealand . " It is a good opportunity for all the young players who are part of this tour , " Pujara , 26 , said after being named for the Bangladesh series . " Playing against Bangladesh in their home conditions wo n't be that easy. Bangladesh is a good team. We have a young side so it will be competitive. " For Bangladesh , it will be their first series under new coach Chandika Hathurusinghe , who has been handed a two-year contract following the recent departure of Australian Shane Jurgensen . Hathurusinghe would be keen to start off on a winning note and turn around the fortunes of the perennial whipping boys of international cricket . " My main goal is to make sure that when my two years is finished , Bangladesh are in a good position to win matches at home and away , " the former Sri Lankan opening batsman said in a press conference earlier this week . Ranked a lowly ninth in ODIs , Bangladesh have had a string of disappointing shows recently with a 3-0 whitewash against Sri Lanka followed by early knockouts from the Asia Cup and World Twenty20 despite being hosts of both tournaments . Bangladesh captain Mushfiqur Rahim said the team had an opportunity to bounce back with a good show against the second-string Indian side . " I did n't expect them to take this series so lightly , " the wicket-keeper batsman told reporters recently . " We have a chance to give a reply on the field. There is extra motivation. And one should not forget that if they lose , India will lose , not India A , " the skipper added . India , the World Cup holders , currently lie third in the ODI rankings. The other two matches are on June 17 and 19 . Squads : India : Suresh Raina ( Capt. ) , Robin Uthappa , Ajinkya Rahane , Cheteshwar Pujara , Ambati Rayudu , Manoj Tiwary , Kedar Jadhav , Wriddhiman Saha ( wk ) , Parvez Rasool , Akshar Patel , R Vinay Kumar , Umesh Yadav , Stuart Binny , Mohit Sharma , Amit Mishra . Bangladesh : Mushfiqur Rahim ( Capt. ) , Tamim Iqbal , Anamul Haque , Shamsur Rahman , Mominul Haque , Shakib Al Hasan , Nasir Hossain , Mahmudullah , Mithun Ali , Abdur Razzak , Masrafe Mortaza , Shohag Gazi , Ziaur Rahman , Al-Amin Hossain , Taskin Ahmed . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
