India short-circuit England to win at Lord 's The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 22 , 2014 , 09.25AM IST Indian players celebrate after winning the second Test against England by 95 runs on the fifth day at Lord 's. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Ishant Sharma emerged from obscurity to knock England cold with short-pitched deliveries as India clinched a rare Test victory at Lord 's on Monday . On a dicey last-day track , Ishant obeyed skipper MS Dhoni 's command and bounced out England with an old ball to give India a convincing 95-run win , only their sixth in England . Interestingly , the Indian team which had to wait for 28 years to repeat its 1983 World Cup triumph in 2011 , had to spend exactly the same number of years to add to their 1986 Test win at Lord 's . By sheer coincidence , on both occasions , Dhoni emulated Kapil Dev. There were many rightful contenders for the Man-of-the Match award , but none more so than Ishant , who bowled with sustained aggression to hammer out India 's first overseas Test victory in three years . However , it would not have been possible without debatable , yet effective , tactics from Dhoni . Chasing 319 runs for victory , the English pair of Joe Root and Moeen Ali had defied Indian bowlers all morning to take the team score from 105 to 156/4 , prompting Dhoni to bring on Ishant from the Pavilion end for a second spell in 74th over with clear instructions to serve chin music . It all but backfired on India as Root , who has played himself in by then , smacked Ishant 's first , third and fourth balls to the off-side for boundaries . Clearly reluctant to persist with the same line of attack Ishant had a word with Dhoni , who insisted that the lanky bowler tries it for one more over --the last before the lunch break. Ishant obliged by targeting batsmen 's body but Root defended dourly before stealing a leg-bye off the third. Moeen refused to play the next two deliveries before committing the cardinal mistake of taking his eye off the last ball before the break . As the batsman ducked into the bouncer , the ball hit Moeen on his gloves and popped up for Cheteshwar Pujara to hold at short leg. It was just the kind of luck India needed and the players disappeared into the pavilion having broken a spirited 101-run partnership for the fifth-wicket that had assumed threatening proportions . With Shami joining Ishant in the bouncing spree , runs came thick and fast as Root and Matt Prior cashed in despite a packed on-side field. The two pacers conceded 10 runs each in the first two overs after lunch and there was a touch of panic in the ranks . Dhoni plugged one end with Ravindra Jadeja , who was marvellously economical but not really incisive , and persisted with Ishant in the 80th over with an eye on the second new ball . Ishant saved ECB the cost of a new cherry by cleaning up the English lower order to finish with career-best figures of 7/74 , going one better than in Wellington where he had picked up 651 against New Zealand earlier this year . Prior started England 's procession after lunch by pulling one straight down Murali Vijay 's throat on the midwicket fence before Ben Stokes picked up his third duck of the series by spooning up the ball at midwicket in trying to pull Ishant from outside his off-stump . And it was all over bar the shouting when England 's best young player and highest-ranked Test batsman , Root finally lost his patience and his horrific attempt at another pull ended up in the hands of Binny at deep square leg. Root 's 66 off 146 balls was only for the record books . Stuart Broad became the fifth victim of Ishant 's short-pitched deliveries , gloving it to Dhoni down the leg side . The final dismissal -- of James Anderson -- was school boyish , summing up England 's approach in the match . He set off for a non-existent single after playing Jadeja to the off-side and was beaten by the bowler 's direct hit at the striker 's end . Significantly , the match ended with England 's best player at Trent Bridge on all fours and the man he had allegedly " pushed " during a spat , exulting in ecstasy . Ishant , one of the most ridiculed Indian cricketers , silenced his critics with stunning figures of 7-74 and was declared man of the match . It was India 's first overseas win in 16 Tests and over 3 years ( 1,124 days ) . It was only India 's second win at Lord 's. The last one had come in 1986. It was only India 's 6th Test win in England. The last one was at Nottingham in '07 . Ishant 's figures were the fourth best ever by an Indian pacer abroad and the best ever in the fourth innings. Another Sharma , Chetan , had taken 5 wickets the last time India won at Lord 's . India had also reclaimed the World Cup 28 years after it won in 1983. Kapil Dev was captain then and in 1986. So Dhoni has emulated his feat twice over , in 2011 and now . Roger and Stuart Binny are the only father-son pair from India to win a Test at Lord 's. 7 of the current Indian team were not even born in 1986 . THE OTHER MEN BEHIND THE WIN Bhuvneshwar Kumar : Provided the all-round dash India desperately needed , grabbing six wickets for 82 runs in the first innings and scoring 36 and 52 at crucial junctures . Ajinkya Rahane : Scored a superb 103 in the first innings which took the team to relative safety after England put India in to bat on a green wicket . Murali Vijay : Made up for opening partner Shikhar Dhawan 's dismal form , following his century at Trent Bridge with a disciplined 95 off 247 balls in the second innings . Ravindra Jadeja : Often criticized for not contributing with the bat , his counterattacking 68 off 57 balls rescued India from 235/7 and helped set England a daunting target of 319 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
