I never lost hope : Pankaj Singh The author has posted comments on this article Saibal Bose , TNN | May 29 , 2014 , 10.54AM IST Page 1 of 4 JAIPUR : It has been a long wait for Rajasthan 's Pankaj Singh . The tall medium-pacer has been one of Indian domestic circuit 's most consistent performers for quite some time. In fact , he has been among the highest wicket-takers in Ranji Trophy for the past five years. Yet , a berth in the Indian team had been eluding him . Finally on Wednesday , the hard-working Pankaj was rewarded for his efforts with a place in the 18-member squad for July 's tour of England . " I think I deserve it , " Pankaj told TOI. " I had been performing quiet well in the domestic circuit , yet was n't being considered good enough for the Indian squad. Now that I have got this opportunity , I will strive to make it count. " It is also quite significant that Pankaj 's parent association , Rajasthan Cricket Association , is currently suspended by the BCCI . It recalls that while handing out the suspension , the BCCI had made it clear that players from the state will not suffer . With Deepak Chahar making the Emerging squad a few days ago and now with Pankaj finding a place in the India squad , the BCCI could well be reaching out to the players , assuring that they will be taken care of , despite the standoff among administrators . " There was an obvious tension when the RCA was suspended , " Pankaj said . " We players were not quite sure how we will be treated. Whether we would be made to suffer or not. However , the BCCI had provided hope when it had said that the players will be looked after. It is good to see that the players are getting their due , despite everything that has happened recently. " Pankaj 's selection might have come out of the blue for many , but the selectors clearly had an eye on him since last year , when he was selected in the Rest Of India squad in the Irani Cup tie against Karnataka . Although ROI suffered an innings defeat , Pankaj was the highest wicket-taker for the team with a six-for-122 . " I had been hoping that my performances are being noticed , but when I was n't getting called up for India , a kind of frustration was setting in , " Pankaj said. " I was wondering what more I had to do. " The frustration was telling on the field too , although with his vast experience , he continued to lead the Rajasthan attack. " I never lost hope , " he added . " Every time an Indian team was being selected , I hoped that I would get a mention. " Pankaj was in the India Test squad that toured Australia in 2008 , but did not get to play in any match. He made his India debut in One-Day Internationals in 2010 in Harare against Sri Lanka under Suresh Raina 's captaincy. Pankaj went wicketless in his seven overs , conceding 45 runs . " This is a great opportunity for me , " Pankaj said . Conditions in England would suit his style of bowling , as he banks more on seam than pace. He has never played in England before , but is not worried about that. " I will try to utilize the conditions and give of my best , " he said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
