Ishant fit as 'missing ' Dhoni puzzles all The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 14 , 2014 , 10.58AM IST Ishant Sharma darted in from a full run-up and bowled at good pace. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : After three days of rest and recreation , the Indian players had a lengthy net session at The Oval in sunny Surrey on Wednesday , but their 'commander-in-chief ' was conspicuous by his absence . Under normal circumstances , skipper MS Dhoni 's 'no-show ' at the optional net session would n't have attracted much attention , but in the wake of India 's heavy loss at Old Trafford inside three days and two days before the fifth and final Test which his team must win to level the series , his absence set tongues wagging . The news filtering through the Indian camp is that Dhoni simply chose to exercise his right to skip optional practice in order to get some additional rest. And but for wounded pride , there is no reason to believe that Dhoni is carrying any injury . So his absence was indeed intriguing . A total lack of communication from the team management led to considerable speculation. Among many rumours in circulation is that the skipper went to a shooting range to hone his 'target practice' . It may be recalled that several members of the team had gone for a similar target practice in Manchester the day after the Indian team lost the fourth Test . Dhoni apart , there were no surprises in the net session that lasted well over three hours. It was the same old routine , practised by the same old faces with the same old approach . R Ashwin was the first man to bat in the nets. It may have been a reward of sorts from the team management for his fine show with the bat in both innings at Old Trafford . On his part , Ashwin played pace and spin with equal ease before having a long bowling stint. The Oval pitch looks greener than the ones at Old Trafford and Ageas Bowl . The expert opinion is that even if some grass is left on the surface to aid lateral movement , there will be help for spinners , both in terms of turn and bounce . Ishant Sharma , who has missed the last two Tests with an ankle injury , appeared to have put the issue behind him as he darted in from a full run-up and bowled at good pace. He did n't bowl for long , but operated smoothly enough to suggest that he was ready to return to the playing XI . In fact , that could be the only change in the Indian line-up that lost the fourth Test. Logically , Ishant should come back in place of Pankaj Singh , the man who had replaced him at Southampton . Given Dhoni 's confidence in Ravindra Jadeja , it 's hard to see him replace the bits and pieces player with a frontline batsman. It would make a lot of sense because even if there is some help from the pitch , Jadeja is unlikely to exploit it because he bowls flat and does n't spin the ball as much as Ashwin . In spite of his none-too-convincing return to the Test fold , Gautam Gambhir is set to get another shot at redemption. He had a long chat with coach Duncan Fletcher and it remains to be seen whether it makes a difference to his batting. A clearer picture of the Indian line-up will emerge after Thursday 's practice where , hopefully , Dhoni will be in attendance . DEFENDING WITH THEIR 'BACKS' LONDON : Indian cricketers dividing themselves into two teams and kicking a football round as part of their warm-up routine is a common scenario. But on Wednesday , fielding coach Trevor Penney introduced a new element to the curriculum . After the usual game of football , Penney involved the players in a game where they had to pass a tennis ball on one bounce to a teammate. And the losers of the game that resembled handball , had to line up side-by-side , like footballers arrange themselves in a 'wall ' to defend a free-kick. The only difference was that the losing team was made to stand with their backs to the shot-taker , ostensibly to avert injuries . Virat Kohli , who took what looked like a 'penalty ' , however , wasted it by blasting the football way over the players into the stand . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
