Ishant 's injury is Pankaj 's big chance The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 28 , 2014 , 06.22AM IST Pankaj was the second-highest wicket-taker in the 2013-14 Ranji Trophy season with 39 wickets. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SOUTHAMPTON : Pankaj Singh became the tenth pace bowler since 2010 to get an India cap when the team management drafted him into the playing XI for the third Test against England on Sunday . Pankaj , who had made his ODI debut back during a tri-series in 2010 against Sri Lanka in Zimbabwe , came into the side in place of Ishant Sharma whose troublesome ankle apparently played up after Saturday 's practice session . The team management , which kept Ishant 's injury a secret , hoping that the ice treatment and rest would help the bowler to recover , decided not to risk the lanky pacer in a five-day match , especially with two more Tests to be played in the series . It was a big blow for India as they lost a potent and experienced pacer who played a key role in the victory at Lord 's last week. Pankaj , who had been toiling honestly in the nets for a month now , got the nod ahead of fellow reserve pacers Ishwar Pandey and Varun Aaron . The 29-year-old , who has been among leading wicket-takers in domestic cricket since 2009 , saw his hard work finally rewarded when he was handed his maiden India cap by former skipper Sourav Ganguly . Pankaj was the second-highest wicket-taker in the 2013-14 Ranji Trophy season with 39 wickets. Ganguly , who said that he would have preferred Aaron to Pankaj because the former is quicker through the air , however , acknowledged later in the day that the debutant had bowled better than his figures suggest . Pankaj , who was in the Indian squad on the 2007-08 tour of Australia , was born in UP 's Sultanpur district but has played all his cricket for Rajasthan , bowled wicket to wicket on a pitch that yielded little lateral movement but enough bounce to those willing to bend their back . Pankaj thus became the fourth pacer , from UP , after Mohammad Shami ( Amroha ) , Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Praveen Kumar ( Meerut ) , to make the Test grade in the past three years . He was unlucky not to pick up the wicket of England skipper Alastair Cook with the first ball of his third over when the batsman pushed at an away going delivery and Ravindra Jadeja at third slip failed to hold on to a knee-high catch . Pankaj became the 282nd player to represent India in Test cricket . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
