Jadeja-Anderson spat united us : Joe Root The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 14 , 2014 , 11.17AM IST Root acknowledged that the Anderson-Jadeja spat had helped to bring the team together. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : In many ways Joe Root epitomizes the spirit with which England have fought back in the series after having fallen behind 1-0 at Lord 's . Root , one of the rising stars in English cricket , is the second-highest scorer for his team with 369 runs in the series , is also a fantastic fielder and a handy part-time off-spinner . The 23-year-old , who is averaging 46.55 in Tests , has n't been involved in too many series wins and he is looking forward to one against India . " It is exciting. We 've not been in this position for a while. There are a lot of new faces around. We will really try to nail down what has been a good little bit of form in the last two games. If we can make it three that will be great , " said Root while interacting with the media . Asked about England 's transformation since Lord 's , Root said. " More than anything else we 've won the key parts and recognized them a bit earlier. We 've stayed really tight as a side , even when we were struggling at Lord 's -I think we came out of that really well. " Root acknowledged that the Anderson-Jadeja spat had helped to bring the team together . " The good thing that came from it was that we did n't let it affect us. That may be one way where we did get tighter ( as a unit ) . It gave us another incentive to want to throw a punch back at them , " said Root , who , however , expects India to fight back at The Oval . " India are a very good side -we know that -and we 're going to have to make sure we do everything we can to win this series comfortably , " he added . Talking about his personal form , Root , who struggled in the Ashes in Australia , said , " It 's always nice to get runs after you 've struggled a little bit. I obviously struggled , as did a lot of people out in Australia , but you come back and get the opportunity to score runs. When you get yourself in you want to make sure you go and make big scores. " Root dismissed all talks about him being a successor to Alastair Cook as is being reported and suggested in several quarters . " It ( captaincy talk ) did n't come anywhere near the front of my mind. We knew that Alastair is the man to take us forward. That 's one area we 've been very good , we 've stayed very tight to what we believe in and I think that 's why we 've managed to turn it around , " Root said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
