Kohli and Pujara 's continued failure hurts India The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 8 , 2014 , 10.26AM IST The similarity of Pujara and Kohli 's dismissals suggest that they need a bit of technical assistance and mentoring. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MANCHESTER : They are young , focused and supremely talented , but as different as chalk and cheese in terms of temperament and technique . Having inherited the No. 3 and No. 4 spots in the Test team from two legends - Rahul Dravid and Sachin Tendulkar - and served their internship with distinction , Cheteshwar Pujara and Virat Kohli were expected to be the mainstay of India 's batting on their maiden tour of England . Statistics rarely tell the whole tale , but so anaemic has been Pujara and Kohli 's individual contributions in the three-and-a-half Tests so far that it has left India in dire need of a transfusion. Kohli ( 101 runs ) , widely regarded as the best young batsman in the world , is averaging 14.42 after seven innings , while Pujara , who has an unflappable temperament , has made 190 runs at an average of 27.14 . Their lack of runs continues to hurt India , but the bigger worry for MS Dhoni 's team is that both Pujara and Kohli have looked at sea against the moving ball , especially the swing and seam movement that James Anderson and Stuart Broad have consistently managed to generate . Kohli , in particular , seems to have no clue where his offstump is and Anderson has preyed on this weakness to gobble him up thrice in the series so far. In order to cover the away movement , Kohli is simply plonking his left foot outside his off stump , which is resulting in opening of his shoulders . His square-on stance is compelling him to nibble at deliveries he should be leaving alone. That he has been caught thrice in the slip cordon thrice and twice by the wicketkeeper -once even to part-timer offspinner Moeen Ali -tells its own story . Predominantly a back-foot player , Kohli needs guidance to fine-tune his technique in order to succeed against swing bowling. But instead of looking to remain side-on and take a big stride forward , Kohli is spending most of his time in the nets batting in his usual style against throw-downs from support staff . Pujara , whose short but impressive Test career has been built on a solid defensive technique , has scored 1279 of his 1840 career runs on sub-continent pitches. His back-foot play and ability to block brought him some success on bouncy South African pitches last year , but he cut a sorry figure in New Zealand and continues to feel his way around in English conditions . Anderson , Broad and Liam Plunkett have repeatedly swung the ball past his flailing blade , while Ben Stokes went through the gate at Lord 's . The similarity of Pujara and Kohli 's dismissals suggest that they need a bit of technical assistance and mentoring , but with Dravid having returned to India after the third Test , the talented duo will have to look somewhere else for inputs and inspiration if they want to a shot at redemption and a last tango in England . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
