Kohli has to apply his mind a lot more : Viswanath The author has posted comments on this article Shrivathsa Sridhar , TNN | Aug 15 , 2014 , 10.49AM IST Kohli has a series average of 13.5 , the joint second-lowest by an Indian top-order batsman in an overseas series of eight innings or more. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BANGALORE : Indian cricketing legends GR Viswanath and Erapalli Prasanna suggested that the national team 's struggles against England off-spinner Moeen Ali were largely problems of their own making , as they singled out two batsmen who needed to deliver in the final Test of the five-match series that India are looking to save . Moeen has already picked up 19 wickets in the series so far - the second most by a spinner in a contest between the two nations in England , behind Ray Illingworth 's 20 in 1967 - and will look to play another decisive part in the fifth Test which begins at the Oval on Friday . " If Moeen has taken 19 wickets in this series , he must obviously have bowled well. But by batting the way they have done against him , the Indian players showed him that he has the ability. Moeen 's status as a bowler has been upgraded because the Indians have been too defensive , " said Prasanna , part of India 's famed spin quartet of the 1970s . Prasanna said MS Dhoni and Co gave the impression that they were playing to avoid England 's pacemen and were caught out by Moeen 's excellent line throughout the series which England lead 2-1 . " The only solution in the next Test will be to not give the England bowlers a psychological advantage , " he said . Viswanath said his big concern was with the form of young gun Virat Kohli . " Most Indian batsmen have been guilty of bad shots , especially against Moeen , " said Viswanath . " However , I 'm not concerned about their ability to tackle him in the final Test. One player I am worried about is Kohli , who I feel has to apply his mind a lot more. From a technical point of view , he needs to play the ball a lot softer and get his right hand closer to his right leg , " said the legendary batsman . Kohli has a series average of 13.5 , the joint second-lowest by an Indian top-order batsman in an overseas series of eight innings or more . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
