Kolkata beat Chennai in thrilling opener The author has posted comments on this article Unfortunately for Dhoni , Andre Russell ( pic ) and Ryan ten Doeschate stole CSK 's thunder to script a remarkable three-wicket win. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 HYDERABAD : " An individual can win the game for you or take the game away from you , " Chennai Super Kings skipper MS Dhoni had declared a couple of days ago. His fears came true on Wednesday . Unfortunately for Dhoni , Andre Russell and Ryan ten Doeschate stole CSK 's thunder to script a remarkable three-wicket win , with six balls to spare , for Kolkata Knight Riders in the Oppo CL T20 Group A opener here. After Ashish Nehra had destroyed the top order with spell of 37 in three overs , the Knight Riders were staring at humiliation but Doeschate and Suryakumar Yadav turned things around with a 30-run stand for the fifth wicket to set the stage for Russell . Russell , who joined ten Doeschate with the score reading 515 , went after the rival attack. The big-hitting West Indies player raced to his 50 off 22 balls with two fours and five sixes. With the others taking the stick , Dhoni turned to Nehra and the left-arm seam er responded well by castling Russell ( 58 ; 25b , 4x4 , 5x6 ) , but the damage was more or less done. Ten Doeschate ensured a win for his side with a masterly unbeaten 51 ( 41b ; 3x4 , 2x6 ) . Earlier , Dhoni and allrounder Dwayne Bravo scripted Chennai Super Kings ' remarkable escape from Kolkata Knight Riders ' spin trap. The famed spin attack of Kolkata had the formidable Super Kings batsmen in knots before Dhoni and Bravo strung an unbeaten 71-run stand off 45 balls for the fifth wicket to stage a remarkable recovery . Coming together at 864 , the duo played some sensible cricket against the spinners , especially Sunil Narine , before launching into fast bowlers Pat Cummins and Umesh Yadav to help CSK reach a competitive 157 for four . Brief scores : KKR 1597 in 19 overs ( Russell 58 , Doeschate 51 * , Nehra 421 ) beat CSK 1574 ( Dhoni 35 * , Bravo 28 * , Narine 19 , Chawla 226 ) by 3 wickets TODAY 'S MATCH : Kings XI Punjab vs Hobart Hurricanes , 8 pm ; Star Sports 1 & 3 , Star Sports HD1 Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
