Lara to play alongside Tendulkar in Lord 's bicentenary The author has posted comments on this article PTI | May 28 , 2014 , 10.11PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MANCHESTER : West Indies legend Brian Lara today joined fellow all-time batting great Sachin Tendulkar of India and became the latest entry in the star-studded list of players who will participate in the MCC v Rest of the World Lord 's Bicentenary match on July 5 . Lara will play alongside India 's Sachin Tendulkar for MCC , with Australia 's Aaron Finch , currently the world 's leading Twenty20 batsman , also in the hosts line-up , besides other legends such as Shane Warne and Adam Gilchrist . Australia paceman Peter Siddle , a thorn in England 's side during the Ashes , will join Nottinghamshire team-mate and former Test wicket-keeper Chris Read in the MCC side . Fast bowlers Umar Gul of Pakistan and Tino Best are the final names to be added to the MCC and Rest of the World sides respectively . Tendulkar will captain an MCC XI that also includes another retired India batting star in Rahul Dravid , Pakistan off-spinner Saeed Ajmal and former Australia fast bowler Brett Lee . Warne , arguably cricket 's greatest leg-spinner , will captain a Rest of the World XI that includes his former Hampshire team-mate Kevin Pietersen as well as Sri Lanka 's Muttiah Muralitharan and Pakistan 's Shahid Afridi . " Lord 's always holds a very special place in any cricketer 's heart , and I am very much looking forward to helping celebrate its Bicentenary with MCC , " Lara said in a statement . " It was an honour to be asked to be involved and it will be fantastic to play at such an iconic place on such a special occasion. " Marylebone Cricket Club ( MCC ) , founded in 1787 , moved to its present site in the north-west London suburb of St John 's Wood in 1814 , with the ground then owned by Thomas Lord -- hence its name -- before the club bought him out. PTI AH Lord 's Bicentenary Match teams MCC : Sachin Tendulkar ( IND , capt ) , Saeed Ajmal ( PAK ) , Shivnarine Chanderpaul ( WIS ) , Rahul Dravid ( IND ) , Aaron Finch ( AUS ) , Umar Gul ( PAK ) , Brian Lara ( WIS ) , Brett Lee ( AUS ) , Chris Read ( ENG , wkt ) , Shaun Tait ( AUS ) , Daniel Vettori ( NZL ) Rest of the World : Shane Warne ( AUS , capt ) , Shahid Afridi ( PAK ) , Tino Best ( WIS ) , Paul Collingwood ( ENG ) , Adam Gilchrist ( AUS , wkt ) , Tamim Iqbal ( BAN ) , Muttiah Muralitharan ( SRI ) , Kevin Pietersen ( ENG ) , Virender Sehwag ( IND ) , Peter Siddle ( AUS ) , Yuvraj Singh ( IND ) . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
