MCA , BCCI on collision course The author has posted comments on this article TNN | May 12 , 2014 , 09.36AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : The Mumbai Cricket Association ( MCA ) is miffed at the IPL governing council 's decision to shift the IPL 7 final from the Wankhede Stadium to Bangalore 's Chinnaswamy Stadium . The MCA , led by Sharad Pawar , has called for an emergency meeting on Monday to discuss the GC 's sudden decision and identify their future course of action . MCA officials say the GC has failed to give proper reasons why the final has been shifted from Mumbai and the BCCI has been reluctant to give the real reasons behind the decision. MCA president Pawar shot off a letter to GC on Saturday demanding explanation and officials say they are not willing to take things lying down . BCCI , meanwhile , has a different perspective to the development. GC sources say the decision to shift the final from Mumbai to Bangalore has been taken with the idea to provide all the big centres with enough matches this season , especially considering that close to 20 matches this year were played out of the country ( in UAE ) . " Mumbai has hosted two finals in the past and so has Chennai. Kolkata has also hosted a final. Bangalore , which is another big centre , has n't hosted a final yet. That was one of the reasons , " a source told TOI . Besides , sources further pointed out that the May 30 qualifier ( second ) is scheduled at the Wankhede as per the original fixture . " Members thought the Brabourne Stadium could also host one of the matches and therefore the May 28 eliminator has been allotted to them , " the source added . MCA officials say they 've handed all their IPL accreditations back to GC. GC sources however claim that they have n't received the accreditations yet . Sources in the Mumbai Indians franchise , meanwhile , has said they have no idea at all of what 's been happening between the GC and MCA. MCA is believed to be now taking a stand that they want all the remaining matches scheduled at the Wankhede to be shifted out of the city and is planning a serious face-off with the board . Those who follow the politics surrounding Indian cricket are already busy pointing fingers at how the entire stand-off is nothing but a result of a power-tussle between Pawar and BCCI chief N Srinivasan . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
