Michael Carberry gets England recall The author has posted comments on this article AFP | May 13 , 2014 , 04.42PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Michael Carberry was recalled to limited overs duty by England on Tuesday after being named in both the Twenty20 and one-day international squads to play Sri Lanka . England 's 13-man Twenty20 squad , captained by Middlesex batsman Eoin Morgan in the absence of the injured Stuart Broad for a lone match against World Twenty20 champions Sri Lanka at The Oval next week , also sees experienced stroke-player Ian Bell return to the format while the big-hitting Michael Lumb has been dropped . Meanwhile left-arm seamer Harry Gurney , who made his ODI debut in a rain-marred ODI that against Scotland that was reduced to 20 overs per side , and fit-again Yorkshire all-rounder Tim Bresnan are in both squads . Ashes opener Carberry made no secret of his anger at being dropped from the ODI series in Australia that followed England 's 5-0 Test drubbing 'Down Under ' , having performed creditably in the same format against the team 's oldest international rivals on home soil . But since then England have axed Ashley Giles as their limited overs coach , with Peter Moores now the sole man in charge across all formats after Andy Flower stood down following the Ashes debacle . And , with a new look selection panel also on board , 33-year-old Hampshire batsman Carberry has been given a chance to revive his white-ball career with England . Now the management must decide which two from the trio of Carberry , Twenty20 specialist Alex Gales and Bell , who has not played in the format for more than three years , will open against Sri Lanka . Meanwhile England have also named a 14-man squad for the first three of five ODIs against Sri Lanka . Bresnan and Carberry were added to the 13 chosen to face Scotland , with Moeen Ali dropping out . This is a possible indication the selectors want Worcestershire batsman and occasional off-spinner Ali to bowl some more overs in first-class cricket ahead of the two-Test series against Sri Lanka , where the hosts may not field a specialist to replace retired slow bowler Graeme Swann . England Twenty20 squad : Eoin Morgan ( Middlesex , capt ) , Moeen Ali ( Worcestershire ) , Ian Bell ( Warwickshire ) , Ravi Bopara ( Essex ) , Tim Bresnan ( Yorkshire ) , Jos Buttler ( Lancashire/wkt ) , Michael Carberry ( Hampshire ) , Harry Gurney ( Nottinghamshire ) , Alex Hales ( Nottinghamshire ) , Chris Jordan ( Sussex ) , Joe Root ( Yorkshire ) , James Tredwell ( Kent ) , Chris Woakes ( Warwickshire ) England ODI squad : ( matches 1-3 ) Alastair Cook ( Essex , capt ) , James Anderson ( Lancashire ) , Gary Ballance ( Yorkshire ) , Ian Bell ( Warwickshire ) , Ravi Bopara ( Essex ) , Tim Bresnan ( Yorkshire ) , Jos Buttler ( Lancashire/wkt ) , Michael Carberry ( Hampshire ) , Harry Gurney ( Nottinghamshire ) , Chris Jordan ( Sussex ) , Eoin Morgan ( Middlesex ) , Joe Root ( Yorkshire ) , James Tredwell ( Kent ) , Chris Woakes ( Warwickshire ) England Twenty20 and ODI fixtures against Sri Lanka : May 20 : Twenty20 , The Oval May 22 : 1st ODI , The Oval May 25 : 2nd ODI , Chester-le-Street May 28 : 3rd ODI , Old Trafford May 31 : 4th ODI , Lord 's Jun 03 : 5th ODI , Edgbaston Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
