Mohit Sharma working on death bowling The author has posted comments on this article Mohit , who has trained under Dennis Lillee , wants to work with McGrath if he gets an opportunity. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : Mohit Sharma has been one of the most consistent bowlers in IPL and the Chennai Super Kings pacer is keen on continuing his record in the Champions League Twenty20 . Mohit , who has been with the CSK team for the last two seasons , featured in 31 games and his ability to bowl outside the off-stump on a consistent basis makes him a difficult bowler to attack . The Haryana pacer though does n't want to dwell on his past , rather he is always looking to upgrade himself for bigger challenges . " I have been working on my death bowling. It 's very difficult to do well all the time especially in T20s as the format generally helps the batsmen. I have been given a particular role by my captain and I try to shoulder the responsibility with confidence , " Mohit , who is in city to train for CLT20 , told TOI on Saturday . The paceman , who has played two ODIs and a T20 match against England in the recently-concluded series , felt his bowling is getting better with every game . " I have been to South Africa , New Zealand , Australia ( with India A ) and England. It 's been a great learning curve for me. " I played two ODIs against England and enjoyed bowling in English conditions but was unlucky to get injured in the second match , " the 25-year-old added . He missed the chance to train under Glenn McGrath as the camp dates clashed with the England series and by the time he returned home , it was over. Mohit , who had trained under Dennis Lillee , wants to work with McGrath if he gets an opportunity . " Of course... I would love to do that. It would be great if a get a chance to train under Glenn in future. " The CSK seamer had a slight problem with his landing and is working under Super Kings ' bowling coach Andy Bichel to rectify the problem . " I needed a little bit of fine-tuning. I am thankful to Andy for his guidance , " he added . Mohit is almost a certainty in the CSK line-up and he looks to keep up the good work . " I do n't know whether I have sealed my place in the final XI but yes , I have played all the matches last year and will be glad if I get more chances . It 's a matter of pride for me to play for CSK and I 'll be ready whenever the team management asks for it . " I have always dreamt of playing for CSK and I am lucky to be a part of one of the best T20 sides in the world and whenever I contributed in CSK 's win , it bring a lot happiness. I have another opportunity now to prove my ability and looking forward to have a great Oppo CLT20 , " the pacer signed off . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
