No footage of Jadeja-Anderson spat irks India The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 21 , 2014 , 10.29AM IST Was Jadeja-Anderson spat evidence tampered with ? ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Much like the ongoing second Test between England and India here at Lord 's , the spat between Ravindra Jadeja and James Anderson at Trent Bridge , too is headed for an interesting finish . While Team India will fancy its chances of bowling out England on a fifth-day pitch , they find themselves on an uncertain wicket on the Jadeja-Anderson issue , which will be heard by an ICC Appeals Commissioner here on Tuesday . Although there was no official confirmation from the England and Wales Cricket Board ( ECB ) , the Indian team management is unhappy with unconfirmed reports that there is no video evidence available of the alleged altercation between Anderson and Jadeja despite the fact that a camera had been installed outside the dressing rooms at Trent Bridge . The incident occurred during the lunch break of the second day 's play at Nottingham during which , Indians claim that Anderson had allegedly " abused " and " pushed " Jadeja as the players were making their way into the dressing rooms . The England team management , which had initially described it as a " minor " incident , later filed a countercharge against Jadeja. Preliminary hearings on both complaints will be conducted by Australian Gordon Lewis via teleconference . Indian officials as well as players are unhappy about the non-availability of video footage because in the absence of it , the Appeals Commissioner may find it hard to arrive at a conclusion as players from both teams are likely to back their own mate . Indians were banking heavily on the video evidence as they clearly believe that Anderson had no business to " push " Jadeja -a point crisply and forcefully made by Dhoni at the match-eve press conference . Officials at the Nottinghamshire County Cricket Club stressed that while a camera was placed in the area , it was n't active during the time of the incident . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
