No ICC appeal leaves BCCI red-faced The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Aug 7 , 2014 , 11.20AM IST James Anderson had all the reasons to be happy after the ICC 's decision. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MANCHESTER : The Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) ended up with a red face on Wednesday after the International Cricket Council ( ICC ) confirmed that it was satisfied with the reasons provided and had elected not to exercise its discretion to appeal against the decision relating to James Anderson , pursuant to clause 8.3.2 of the ICC code of conduct . There was no reaction from the BCCI , which had written to the ICC urging it to appeal against judicial commissioner Gordon Lewis ' decision to let Anderson go scot free for want of conclusive evidence in his spat with Ravindra Jadeja during the Trent Bridge Test . ICC chief executive David Richardson said : " This outcome is the result of two exhaustive and thorough disciplinary processes and , after considering the written decision , the ICC is satisfied with the manner in which the decisions have been reached . " It was a complicated and sensitive matter relating to charges brought against two players at different levels of the ICC Code of Conduct . " There appears to have been vastly conflicting evidence on both sides , with a total of 13 witnesses who gave testimony. After carefully considering the decision by Gordon Lewis , whose vast experience was invaluable to the process over recent weeks , we believe that no further purpose would be served by prolonging the process through further appeal proceedings . " The disciplinary procedures were robust and transparent and all parties had ample opportunity to ask questions , test the evidence and make submissions. We have determined that there is no merit in an appeal and that it would not be in the best interest of the sport to take such action . " As a matter of best practice , the ICC will now review the procedures as set out in the code and reflect upon the comments made by Gordon Lewis in his decision about how a case of this nature might better be provided for in the future. " Commenting on the use of offensive language , Richardson added : " International cricket is tough , competitive and uncompromising but we must reiterate that there is no place in the game for the use of offensive language that is personally insulting of one player by another . " It is imperative that all captains , players and coaches as well as umpires and referees are reminded of and do not shirk responsibility to one another and to the game. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
