Pakistan court reinstates Zaka Ashraf as PCB chief The author has posted comments on this article AFP | May 17 , 2014 , 08.06PM IST Ashraf appealed against the decision and was reinstated on January 15 this year , before Sharif again sacked him a month later. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ISLAMABAD : Pakistani cricket turmoil deepened on Saturday after an Islamabad high court suspended a management committee appointed by the prime minister and reinstated Zaka Ashraf as chief of the cricket board . Pakistan 's Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif had sacked Ashraf on February 10 this year and appointed a committee chaired by Najam Sethi to oversee cricketing matters . Saturday 's order meant all decisions taken by Sethi are now null and void -- including the appointments of head coach Waqar Younis and Zimbabwean batting coach Grant Flower . It is the third time Ashraf has been reinstated since May last year. Judge Noorul Haq Qureshi heard around 25 petitions from the employees of the Pakistan Cricket Board ( PCB ) who were sacked by Sethi , and read out his decision in the court . Ashraf 's lawyer Karim Kundi said the court decided to revert to the situation of February 10 . " The notification of February 10 has been struck down as null and void as it was illegal , and as natural consequences Ashraf and other board staff who were superceded by the order are reinstated , " Kundi said . Ashraf hailed Saturday 's decision. " This is a win for Pakistan cricket , " Ashraf told Pakistani media. " I will try to correct the wrong things in Pakistan cricket and do whatever is good for Pakistan cricket. " The Sethi-led committee and Pakistan 's Ministry of Inter Provincial Coordination , which oversees sporting matters in the country , are likely to challenge the decision next week . The same Islamabad court had suspended Ashraf in May last year , ruling his election " dubious " . Sethi was appointed PCB chairman in June . Ashraf appealed against the decision and was reinstated on January 15 this year , before Sharif again sacked him a month later . The frequent changes have made Pakistan the laughing stock of international cricket . The Supreme Court earlier this year refrained from taking the case ahead , suggesting that the government has the authority to initiate changes within the PCB . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
