Pakistan should learn from Indian cricket : Moin Khan The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Apr 11 , 2014 , 05.10PM IST " The Indian players are groomed in the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) . The competition is extremely tough there now , " Moin Khan said. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 KARACHI : India 's continued dominance in ICC events and BCCI 's influence in international cricket has prompted Pakistan coach Moin Khan to admit that India is not only a powerhouse but they should take a leaf out of the neighbour 's book . The former wicketkeeper-batsman believes that Pakistan fans , players and board need to understand that India 's meticulous planning and the mental strength of their players has taken them to a new level . " The Indian players are groomed in the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) . The competition is extremely tough there now. The players who get through this system and make it to the top are quality players and have the ability of sustaining pressure at the highest level , " Moin was quoted in the 'Express Tribune' . The Pakistan Cricket Board has also announced that it intended to launch its super league T20 competition in January next year in the United Arab Emirates . Moin , 42 , hoped that the Pakistan administrators would think on these lines and take requisite steps. " We need to understand and accept the facts , this is the first step in the right direction , if we are honest and work with the vision then only can we overcome India at the big stage ( ICC world events ) " . The PCB decision to create its own T20 league also stems from the fact that Pakistan players , despite their standing in T20 cricket , have been kept out of the cash-rich league since 2008 . Moin said whatever may be the reason , this had deprived Pakistan players the chance to play alongside and against other international players in a competitive league which would have been a good learning curve for them . Pakistan lost to India in the recent World T20 in Bangladesh , continuing the jinx of not being able to win against India in World Cup events . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
