Pakistan slip after Sangakkara 's double ton The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Aug 9 , 2014 , 06.17PM IST Sri Lanka 's Kumar Sangakkara celebrates his double century during the fourth day of the first Test against Pakistan in Galle. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 GALLE ( Sri Lanka ) : Veteran Kumar Sangakkara hit a 200-plus score for the 10th time to light up the fourth day 's play in the first Test between Sri Lanka and Pakistan in Galle on Saturday . The prolific left-hander made 221 as the hosts declared their first innings at 533-9 shortly before stumps , a lead of 82 runs over Pakistan 's total of 451 . Left-arm spinner Rangana Herath then had opener Khurram Manzoor caught behind for three to reduce the tourists to 4-1 in six overs before the close . Ahmed Shehzad was on one and nightwatchman Saeed Ajmal had yet to score when stumps were drawn , leaving Pakistan the task of batting out the final day to draw the opening encounter of the two-match series . Sangakkara , second only behind Australian legend Don Bradman 's tally of 12 scores of more than 200 , took advantage of the easy-paced wicket to toy with the Pakistan attack for nearly 12 hours . He fell in the post-tea session , stumped off spinner Abdur Rehman trying to pick up the scoring rate in the company of tailenders . Pakistan 's frontline off-spinner Ajmal , who went wicketless for 46 overs , grabbed five on either side of tea to finish with expensive figures of five for 166 from 59.1 overs . Pakistan paid heavily for letting Sangakkara escape off the first ball of the day when Rehman spilled a chance at point off left-arm seamer Junaid Khan . Junaid struck three deliveries later as Mahela Jayawardene was adjudged leg-before through the Decision Review System ( DRS ) . Umpire Ian Gould turned down a loud shout from the bowler , but Pakistan earned a positive verdict after appealing for a review from the TV official. Replays showed the ball hitting the top of the off-stump . Jaywardene , who is due to quit Test cricket after the series ends in Colombo later this month , made 59 in a third-wicket stand of 113 with Sangakkara . The 36-year-old Sangakkara had on Friday risen to fourth place in the list of century-makers with his 37th hundred , the seventh three-figure knock in his last 14 Tests . Only the retired trio of India 's Sachin Tendulkar , with 51 centuries , Jacques Kallis of South Africa , who had 45 , and Ricky Ponting of Australia on 41 , have scored more hundreds . Skipper Angelo Mathews hit 91 during a fourth-wicket stand of 181 with Sangakkara before he was caught in the slips off Ajmal just before tea . The Sri Lankan captain has been dismissed in the 90s on five occasions -- thrice on 91 against Pakistan since last December . The second and final Test will be played on Jayawardene 's home ground at the Sinhalese Sports Club in Colombo from August 14 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
