Pietersen fears England in for Swann dive The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jul 8 , 2014 , 02.34PM IST Pietersen said India would be helped by the fact English pitches are not only no longer the green seamers of old. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NOTTINGHAM : Kevin Pietersen thinks England could be in for a particularly tough Test series at home to India in the absence of Graeme Swann . Off-spinner Swann 's retirement during England 's 5-0 Ashes thrashing in Australia has left Alastair Cook 's side without a specialist slow bowler , given the selectors refusal to recall Monty Panesar . Swann took 255 wickets in 60 Tests and was a mainstay of the attack. This was in sharp contrast to the situation during the team 's recent 1-0 defeat in a two-Test series at home to Sri Lanka where off-spin was provided by Moeen Ali , primarily a batsman , whom England captain Alastair Cook appeared reluctant to trust with the ball . Cook 's tactics were called into question that series but Pietersen -- a former England captain who was sent into international exile after the Ashes by team management -- said it was always going to be tough without Swann . " Alastair Cook struggles to captain the side when opposition batters become established because he can not toss the ball to Swann , who could defend and attack in equal measure , " Pietersen wrote in his column in Tuesday 's Daily Telegraph on the eve of the first of a five-Test series between England and India at Nottingham 's Trent Bridge ground . " Swann made Andrew Strauss 's captaincy look good and he made Cook 's look good , too , by making crucial breakthroughs when the opposition were threatening to take the game away . " It was down to Swann 's genius , and not tactical masterstrokes. The Indians respect Swann hugely , they think he is a fantastic bowler and I know they are licking their lips about facing any other English spinner who bowls to them. " Pietersen added India would be helped , just as Sri Lanka were , by the fact English pitches are not only no longer the green seamers of old but have also lost pace and increasingly resemble the kind of slow , low-bouncing surfaces found in the sub-continent . " Home advantage was lost when new drainage systems were installed at Test venues turning our pitches into sandpits , " Pietersen said . " They are horrendous. They give little to the seamers and when it spins , it does so slowly , negating the threat of the turning ball . " The drainage was addressed with the best of intentions ; to give the public as much cricket as possible by reducing the amount of overs lost to rain . " It is good news for chief executives running grounds carrying the burden of heavy debts but in terms of the quality of cricket the public are seeing , it is not good enough...It is something that has really changed since India were beaten here 4-0 three years ago. " Pietersen 's comments were echoed by England new-ball bowler Stuart Broad , who plays at Trent Bridge for county side Nottinghamshire . " I know our players three or four years ago brought the theory up that they were making the wickets too dry too early , and it is quite hard to keep bounce in the wickets now - unless you leave them really green , which Test match wickets just do n't do , " Broad said . " I think Test wickets should be flat -- no doubt , because the crowds want to come and see runs scored . " But if you catch the edge of a batsman , it 's got to carry to the wicketkeeper and the slips -- that 's the number one rule. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
