'Players looked jaded after second Test in England' The author has posted comments on this article Arani Basu , TNN | Aug 22 , 2014 , 11.49AM IST Sources suggested the dressing room atmosphere got gloomy as the defeats piled up. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : With the jury still out on the reasons behind India 's abject surrender in England , sources close to the team told TOI that the players simply lost fizz after the second Test and there was no one to egg the young bunch on . " All the players had been on the road for a long time. After the IPL , some of them even went to Bangladesh. It was clear after the second Test that the players were jaded , " a BCCI official said , adding that coach Duncan Fletcher did very little to fire up the players . " There were a lot of rest days and optional practice sessions. The players were struggling to push themselves and since Fletcher had very little to say , Dhoni had to make the decisions. " Sources also suggested the dressing room atmosphere got gloomy as the defeats piled up . " The likes of Virat Kohli and Gambhir felt the absence of stalwarts in the dressing room. They missed the likes of Sehwag , Laxman , Yuvraj , Tendulkar or Dravid , who were instrumental in the past in keeping the morale high during a difficult series. They felt Duncan could have done more , " said a source . Kohli 's childhood coach Rajkumar Sharma said the completely out-of-form Virat was " very disturbed by what was happening " . In fact , Sharma was about to fly over to England in the middle of the series but could n't manage a visa . " I was going there to give him moral support. He was saying Dhoni was left with too much to do as the others could n't contribute. It 's so disappointing to see everyone failing and the captain taking the blows on and off the field , " Sharma said . Did BCCI think Virat was marrying his girlfriend ? Virat Kohli 's decision to have his girlfriend - Bollywood actor Anushka Sharma - around on the tour has sparked controversy following his poor run of scores. TOI has learnt that BCCI secretary Sanjay Patel permitted Kohli to have Anushka around since he was under the impression the duo was about to tie the knot . " There was resistance from certain quarters of the BCCI but Sanjay Patel said Virat was getting married to his girlfriend. Going by his words , the board allowed Virat to have his girlfriend with him , " a BCCI official said . The official added that teammates backed Virat later . " The players asserted there was nothing wrong in what Virat did. They pointed out how the FIFA World Cup-winning German team had girlfriends on tour throughout in Brazil , " the official said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
