Ravi Shastri in full-time role for World Cup The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Sep 27 , 2014 , 10.55AM IST Ravi Shastri will be with the team during the home series against West Indies as well , even though Patel said that Shastri might not be working full-time during the home series or the four-Test series in Australia. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : India will go into the 2015 World Cup under the stewardship of Ravi Shastri . The former Indian captain 's performance as the coaching director in England was appreciated by the BCCI and it was decided that he will stay on as team director till the World Cup . " We had meetings with him and he was happy to carry on till the World Cup , " BCCI secretary Sanjay Patel said coming out of the BCCI working committee meeting . Shastri will be with the team during the home series against West Indies as well , even though Patel said that Shastri might not be working full-time during the home series or the fourTest series in Australia . " We have left that bit open. He will work as per his availability during the Australia Test series. But he will be with the team 24x7 from the tri-series in Australia and will continue till the World Cup , " Patel said . Under-fire coach Duncan Fletcher too has been retained following positive reports by the team and Shastri. Skipper MS Dhoni too has openly backed Fletcher and the BCCI , despite initial reservations about the coach , preferred to continue with the 67year-old coach . " There was never any doubt about his knowledge. The communication skills sometimes become an area of concern but with an Indian support staff around , it should n't be a problem , " an official added . The three Indian coaches - Sanjay Bangar , Bharath Arun and R Sridhar - have been retained and they will be with the team from the West Indies series onwards. The two foreign coaches , Joe Dawes and Trevor Penney have been asked to serve out their contract at the National Cricket Academy . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
