Relief for Anderson ; Loss of face for Dhoni and BCCI The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 2 , 2014 , 06.37AM IST The Indian team management had accused pacer James Anderson of " abusing " and " pushing " Ravindra Jadeja during the lunch break on the second day of the first Test. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SOUTHAMPTON : India 's strident stance against Anderson comes a cropper as judicial commissioner Gordon Lewis lets off the England pacer , as well as Ravindra Jadeja It was a complete loss of face for Team India and the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) after judicial commissioner Gordon Lewis on Friday found both England pacer James Anderson and Indian all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja " not guilty " of breaching the ICC 's code of conduct for players and support staff . Lewis came to this conclusion after hearing both parties over six hours via a videoconference. The Indian team management had accused pacer Anderson of " abusing " and " pushing " Jadeja during the lunch break on the second day of the first Test at Trent Bridge . Indian captain Mahendra Dhoni , who claimed to have seen Anderson " pushing " Jadeja on the stairs leading to the dressing room , had condemned the " physical " act during a press conference at Lord 's , saying that " there is no way can I go and touch you , or you can come and touch me " . Dhoni had also maintained that Jadeja had not been the aggressor. " It was good on Jadeja 's part not to react. I felt he addressed the situation in a most appropriate manner. That 's something we have to learn and move forward. Someone has to back off at the right time , " Dhoni had said . The Indian captain , who appeared as one of the witnesses along with Gautam Gambhir and physio Evan Speechly at Friday 's hearing , however , would be happy that Lewis overturned match referee David Boon decision to fine Jadeja 50 % of his match fees for " bringing the game into disrepute " . The England camp , on the other hand , has reasons to be elated after Anderson was cleared of the charges and given the green light to lead the home team 's attack in the remaining part of the series. Stuart Broad and Matt Prior were among those who appeared as witnesses for England . There was no official reaction either from the Indian camp or the English team management , but the let-off of Anderson would certainly leave Dhoni and his boys demoralized . The skipper , in particular , will have to put the whole incident behind him after having led the crusade against " big bully " Anderson . By clearing Jadeja and Anderson of any significant wrong-doing , Lewis has also made Boon 's position untenable. Boon had not only reduced the charge against Jadeja to Level 1 but also fined him for bad behavior . The ECB and Anderson were represented in the hearings by Nick De Marco while Adam Lewis ( queen 's counsel ) represented Jadeja. The hearings were also attended by the two team managers , the ECB 's Paul Downton , the BCCI 's Sundar Raman and MV Sridhar , the ICC 's general manager ( cricket ) , Geoff Allardice , and the ICC 's ethics and regulatory lawyer , Sally Clark. Neither team is allowed to appeal the verdict with only the ICC chief executive able to lodge a challenge . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
