'Relieved ' Pietersen at peace with end of England career The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Jun 9 , 2014 , 12.47PM IST Surrey 's Kevin Pietersen fields during the T20 match against Essex at The Oval in London on June 6 , 2014. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 Kevin Pietersen is at peace his England career is over and has said the team 's dressing room was not a " pleasant place " during the 5-0 Ashes whitewash in Australia . The 33-year-old former captain 's central contract was terminated by England after the disastrous tour and the team will walk out to play their first test on Thursday , against Sri Lanka at Lord 's , since the sacking of the prolific run-scorer . " I will have no anger , no negative thoughts whatsoever when England walk out without me at Lord 's on Thursday to play their first test since the Ashes , " the South Africa-born cricketer wrote in a column for the Daily Telegraph on Monday . " I am grateful for what I have had and moved on with my life. I have scored 13,500 international runs for England and it would be greedy to want more , so I am at peace with everything . " I wish my friends in the England team well. " Portrayed as a brash cricketer and frequently labelled a disruptive dressing room influence , the ECB said Pietersen was axed because captain Alastair Cook needed to be able to trust and rely on the support of all his players . " In fact , it has been a relief to be out of the dressing room because it was not a pleasant place in Australia , " Pietersen continued. " We were losing and in my opinion the environment was poor , and I was not alone in thinking that . " It is a view shared by a number of the players who have spoken their minds since coming back from the tour. " ALL OK The right-handed batsman , who scored 8,181 test runs in 104 tests at a 47-plus average , said media reports of his frosty relationship with coach Andy Flower were damaging . " But my relationship with the other players was fine. We had an incredible tour on and off the field , " he said . " I was helping all the bowlers out with their batting , and the night we lost 5-0 we were all having a drink in the bar together with our wives and girlfriends , which proves all was OK between us and still is. " Zimbabwean Flower also stepped down following the series after five years at the helm and was replaced by Peter Moores as the England coach . Pietersen said something like last year 's back-to-back Ashes series should never happen again and his team were not ready to come and defend the urn so soon . " It was really hard for the England team to go to Australia and defend the Ashes just weeks after winning at home , " Pietersen said . " The senior players were tired and it soon became a really long grind against an Australian side who had their backs up in their own country . " Australia knew they came close to winning here. The 3-0 defeat in England last year was not a true reflection of that series in terms of the way they played their cricket and we played ours , so I knew it was going to be a tight return contest and we were not equipped to handle it. " Pietersen also picked Mitchell Johnson , who took 37 wickets in the five tests , for special praise and lauded Australia captain Michael Clarke for handling the fiery paceman intelligently in the series . " Johnson 's bowling was the best and most aggressive I have seen during my career , and I told him so at the end of the test series when we shared a beer , " said Pietersen . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
