Rudi Webster asks Team India to unlearn bad habits The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Aug 24 , 2014 , 11.25AM IST How quickly MS Dhoni & Co can recoup will be determined by the depth of their motivation and self-discipline. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 How quickly MS Dhoni & Co can recoup will be determined by the depth of their motivation and self-discipline , writes noted sports psychologist Rudi Webster . After a promising start in the first Test against England and a win in the second Test at Lord 's , the Indian cricket team went into steep decline , losing the next three Tests and finishing the series in a deep performance slump . I am aware of the shame and pain the players are feeling and I would like to offer them a few words of comfort : success is not permanent and failure is not fatal. Instead of feeling sorry for themselves they should use their failure as a learning experience . Victory often arises out of failure because the pain of failure sometimes breaks the shell that stifles talent. The way in which the players deal with this setback will speak volumes about their character. How quickly they recover and get back to winning ways will be determined by the quality of their thinking and the depth of their motivation , self-belief and self-discipline. How well they execute the basic skills will also be critical . Olympic decathlon champion Rafer Johnson once said : " The most enjoyment I had was not always winning , ( although I hated losing ) . But what gave me the biggest thrill was the way I reacted when I was beaten - what I thought about when I was beaten and how I came back from defeat. To my mind , the great champions are the ones who react to defeat in a positive way. I 'd much rather climb into the head of someone who has lost , and see what made that person come back to be a victor , than to climb into the head of a winner. " Players ' confidence is always low in a slump and it often results in negative thinking , self-doubts , weak concentration , impatience , confusion , poor judgment , heavy feet , a tight grip , uncoordinated movements and poor execution of the basic skills . The basics form the fabric of performance and any time that fabric is weak , performance will suffer. The slump might start with a technical or physical fault but in the end it is always made worse by poor mental functioning. We then overestimate the difficulties and challenges in the situations we face while underestimating our ability to cope with them . The Indian players who performed poorly in the Tests in England can reverse form by adopting a similar or slightly modified form of treatment . They should answer these important questions as honestly and as thoroughly as they can : What do we want to achieve and become and why ? What standards should we aim for ? What do we stand for and believe in ? What are our most important values and priorities ? What is our action plan ? What are the bad habits , limiting beliefs and negative thinking that will hold us back ? Playing better is often more about unlearning or removing bad habits , negative thinking and limiting beliefs than about learning or adding new ones . Finally , the coaches can improve team cohesion and team interaction by setting up a contract of expectations with the players. They can tell the players exactly what roles and functions they expect them to perform , and what standards they expect them to meet. And they can then find out from the players what they expect from the coaches. Both sides will then know exactly what to expect from each other . Players instinctively think that whenever they are in a slump , something must be wrong with their technique , which they then proceed to take apart bit by bit. Moreover , the people around them offer all sorts of technical advice and suggest that the players change important aspects of their game that worked well for them in the past . Players must learn to protect themselves from that type of advice. Ian Chappell a former captain of Australia , claims that in those people who have a reasonable history of success , a slump is usually due to poor mental functioning rather than to any great technical problems . Years ago , a famous West Indies batsman was in a bad slump and at the time he received lots of technical advice from the experts around him. But the suggested changes did not work so he tried a different approach. He learned how to relax his body , calm and clear his mind , and simplify and modify his thinking. In addition , he kept his mind in the present by focusing on playing one ball at a time. Strong ego-boosting techniques then helped to improve self-belief , self-image and self-confidence . He lowered his expectations , set modest goals and concentrated on mastering the basics of batting following the ball out of the bowler 's hand , picking up its angle , line and length quickly , and allowing his body to move freely and naturally into position to receive the ball. Early in his innings he remained calm and concentrated on stroking the ball in the 'V ' between mid-off and mid-on to stop himself from playing across the line and giving his wicket away . Finally , he imprinted those activities in his mind with regular visualization and mental rehearsal techniques. Soon after , he established himself as one of the world 's best batsmen . The power of expectations can not be overestimated. Your expectations of people and their expectations of themselves are key factors in how well people perform . ( Rudi Webster is a sought-after sports psychologist who helped the likes of Viv Richards and Greg Chappell bounce back from a nightmarish run. The author of Think Like A Champion , a reference point in sports psychology , mentored the underperforming Kolkata Knight Riders to their maiden IPL title in 2012. He spoke to Gaurav Gupta ) Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
