Sachin , Amre helped Raina overcome bouncer phobia The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Aug 29 , 2014 , 12.06PM IST Arjun Tendulkar was chosen to test Raina with the short stuff in the nets. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Suresh Raina 's dazzling century off 75 balls in the second ODI against England in Cardiff was the result of meticulous preparation and a fierce desire to overcome his weakness against the short ball . Before the ODI series , Raina , in a desperate attempt to " turn a corner , " sent an 'SOS ' to former India batsman Pravin Amre , currently a Mumbai coach and batting consultant to many top players . The UP batsman then had a rigorous four-day 'camp ' with Amre at the MCA 's BKC indoor facility . As luck would have it , Raina received advice not just from Amre but Sachin Tendulkar too. In fact , Tendulkar 's son Arjun , a budding all-rounder , was the one chosen to test Raina with the short stuff in the nets . Amre 's agenda was simple - to get Raina to overcome his anxiety while facing the short ball . " I had to work on his head position. I told him to remove his helmet. When I gave him throwdowns with the tennis ball , he was supposed to face them without headgear. Batting with a helmet makes us develop wrong habits , " Amre told TOI on Thursday . " Did Viv Richards and Sunil Gavaskar bat with proper helmets ? I asked him to discover his own instinctive way of negotiating the short ball. The focus was on leaving the short ball well , as earlier he would look to be positive and play it anyhow. I am glad he did that well in Cardiff. Despite leaving the short balls , he was able to blast a century off just 75 balls. This is because he can play the big shots. " Raina , who smashed his first ODI hundred outside the subcontinent on Wednesday , has in the past struggled to overcome this weakness against genuine pace despite finishing off many games for India during his 192-match career . Amre said he worked on boosting Raina 's confidence . " I told him , 'Forget about what people say about how you play the short ball. You are both physically and mentally strong , which reflects in your big-hitting ability and longevity in ODIs. You are our biggest match winner after MS Dhoni , and the next-best finisher. You can destroy an attack. If you can do it in the IPL , you can do it anywhere . " Sachin too pepped Raina up , asking him to bat more often on the front foot outside India , since it helped him get hundreds on bouncy wickets in South Africa , " Amre added . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
