Sachin greater than Bradman , claims book with 'evidence' The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Apr 23 , 2014 , 03.26PM IST On the eve of Sachin Tendulkar 's 41st birthday Rudolph Lambert Fernandez has come up with a book 'Greater Than Bradman. ' ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The jury is still out on whether Sachin Tendulkar retired a greater batsman than late Australian legend Don Bradman but a Chennai-based author claims to have found the " forensic evidence " to prove that the Indian maestro was indeed the better of the two icons . On the eve of Tendulkar 's 41st birthday , his first after retiring from international cricket , Rudolph Lambert Fernandez has come up with a book 'Greater Than Bradman ' , which aims to prove that the Little Master is the greatest batsman of all time . " It is not another biography of Sachin or Bradman. It is not another compilation of interviews , match anecdotes and expert essays. It is not an autobiography. It is an analysis. It is a forensic study that aims to set the record straight , " the author claims about the book . " This is the first and only book that challenges Bradman 's rank as a batsman , " he says . Fernandez wishes to present a copy of the book to Tendulkar 's brother Ajit , his wife Anjali and his formative coach Ramakant Achrekar . " I am eager to present a paperback of the book to the three As , who were in many ways responsible for Sachin realising his greatness -- Ajit his brother , Achrekar his coach , and Anjali his wife. This book is a celebration of Tendulkar 's greatness and what he stood for on the cricket field -- there is no higher tribute , " said Fernandez . Fernandez says the book uses illustrations from " science and martial arts " to prove Tendulkar 's greatness . " It questions traditional measures of greatness that revolve around statistics. It offers a more honest approach that respects a batsman 's figures but places them against the backdrop of his playing environment " , he says . " The 21st century cricket readers need a closer look at Bradman. They appear all too familiar with Sachin , having seen his every shot dissected a 100 times. They have seen his ducks , his run-outs , his many failures , " said Fernandez . Fernandez said his book offers a whole new perspective on Tendulkar 's cricketing career . " This book is not about Sachin being the greatest batsman in 1998 or in 2010. It is about him as the greatest batsman in cricket history , " he said . " While the point of this book is to demonstrate Sachin 's superiority over Bradman , it would be a pity if this were to be read as scorning the similarities between them -- their desire to dominate , their eagerness to excel , their genius. Thankfully these have been celebrated already by other writers , " he said . Tendulkar 's 200 Test appearances yielded 15,921 runs at an average of 53.78 , a feat so huge in magnitude that no contemporary or even a talented successor of his , looks capable of overhauling it in the near or distant future . At the end of his ODI journey , the 40-year-old right-hander had , under his belt , a whopping 18,426 in 463 matches at an average of 44.83 . The right-hander retired as only batsman to score 100 international centuries -- 51 in Tests and 49 in ODIs . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
