Sachin Tendulkar 's 15-a-side idea rejected The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Sep 20 , 2014 , 11.26AM IST Tendulkar had shared this idea during his felicitation by the MCA at the Bandra Kurla Complex last December. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : The Mumbai Cricket Association ( MCA ) has shot down cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar 's innovative idea to have 15-a-side games at the inter-college and school level instead of the usual 11 . Tendulkar had shared this idea during his felicitation by the MCA at the Bandra Kurla Complex last December . " When we have inter-school and inter-college matches , can we take 15 players instead of 11 ? The boy who leaves his home every day for a match in the hope that he will do something , a lot of times does n't know whether he is going to play or not. Many a time , the wicket may be a turning track and having a third seamer makes no point. Sometimes , there is only one seamer and there is a spinner bowling from the other end . " That 's not the fault of the poor 12year old fast bowler. But he is prepared to work hard for the entire year not knowing that he may not be picked , " Tendulkar had said then. Apparently , the retired great was keen that the proposal be implemented , but it was rejected by the MCA 's technical committee recently , for not being 'feasible' . Meanwhile , the MCA , at a Managing Committee ( MC ) meeting on Friday , which was chaired by its president & NCP supremo Sharad Pawar , decided to help certain ex-cricketers most of whom are aged 70 and above - with their medical expenses to the tune of Rs 50,000 on a 'case-to-case ' basis . The decision to help these ex-players , who could n't feature in the Ranji Trophy but were famous club cricketers in the 50s and 60s , was taken following a letter written by former India skipper Ajit Wadekar to Pawar . The letter , which was signed by reputed ex-India players like Dilip Vengsarkar and chief selector Sandeep Patil , requested the MCA to provide financial assistance to a few ex-cricketers who had turned old and were struggling to foot their medical bills . The association is also planning to celebrate former president SK Wankhede 's birth centenary around Diwali. The famous cricket administrator and politician was chiefly responsible for building the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai. " We will organise a major get-together where ex-cricketers will be invited , " an MCA official told TOI on Friday . In another major decision , the MCA has decided to extensively renovate the BKC. " We will build a 'mount gallery, ' and provide residential facility for the trainees there. The mount gallery , which will have a grass embankment and stairs , will enable around 1,000 spectators to enjoy a match at the venue , which hosts First Class matches , and hosts touring sides during practice games. There will be a gym , cafeteria , and a media box at the ground too. We have got a go-ahead from MMRDA to proceed with the construction there , " said an official . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
