Sangakkara stars for Sri Lanka on rain-hit day The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Jul 27 , 2014 , 07.34PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 COLOMBO : Kumar Sangakkara and skipper Angelo Mathews struck brisk half-centuries to help Sri Lanka set up a thrilling finale to the series-deciding second Test against South Africa on Sunday . Sangakkara ( 72 ) hit his tenth 50-plus score of the year and Mathews chipped in with an unbeaten 63 as the hosts declared their second innings on 229-8 shortly before close of play to set the visitors an imposing target of 369 . At stumps on a rain-interrupted day four , South Africa were 38-1 , needing 331 more runs off a minimum 98 overs to pull off a series-clinching win . Quinton de Kock ( 21 ) and Dean Elgar ( 13 ) were the not out batsmen at the crease . The hosts , who posted 421 in their first essay , had bowled out South Africa for 282 in their first innings to gain a 139-run lead . South Africa lead the two-Test series 1-0 after winning the opener in Galle by 153 runs. Even a draw in this game will see the Proteas reclaim the world number one ranking from Australia . Sangakkara felt the visitors would play for draw than go for a win on Monday . " Even in the first innings I thought they were playing for time ( rather ) than scoring runs. That allowed us to put pressure on them , " he said after the day 's play . " The more negative ( approach ) you have , the more defensive shots you play. So , we are just happy to have fielders around and make sure they play as defensively as possible , " he said while hoping the rains would keep away . South Africa 's chase did not start the way they had hoped for as they lost their first wicket with just six runs on the board . Opener Alviro Petersen ( zero ) failed for the second time in the game when he was caught off left-arm spinner Rangana Herath , who opened the bowling . Senior South African batsman AB de Villiers was confident his side could pull off a win and clinch their first Test series victory on the island in 21 years . " We are not playing negative cricket , we will assess the situation in the morning and if we have wickets , then we will go for a win , " he said . " We are very positive that we can pull this off. It means everything to us to win this series in Sri Lanka , so we will do our best to make it happen. " The Sri Lankan batsmen had started off confidently after rain interrupted play for an hour following the lunch break . Sangakkara unleashed his trademark silken pulls and drives to race to the 50-run mark with a boundary off leg-spinner Imran Tahir ( 2-76 ) . Just when he was looking good for a bigger score , he edged to wicketkeeper De Kock off Morne Morkel ( 4-45 ) , bringing an end to his enterprising knock that included eight hits to the fence . Kithruwan Vithanage ( seven ) was superbly caught by Faf du Plessis who ran backwards without taking his eyes off the ball and then dived forward to pluck it inches off the ground . Test debutant Niroshan Dickwella top-edged to AB de Villiers off Dale Steyn ( 2-59 ) , failing to repeat his first innings performance which saw him score 72 . Tahir bowled Dilruwan Perera and Morkel sent back Herath , prompting skipper Mathews to declare the innings . Earlier , Sri Lanka added a healthy 97 runs in the first session while losing their openers and the prolific Mahela Jayawardene . Jayawardene , who cracked a solid 165 in the first innings , was out for a duck in a bizarre fashion off Tahir . The stylish right-hander played the reverse sweep but the ball popped up and Dean Elgar rushed across from short leg to pouch the ball before crashing into De Kock . Jayawardene was given out but he sought a review believing that the ball had not touched his glove. However , the decision of the on-field umpire was upheld and the batsman walked away shaking his head in disappointment . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
