Sangakkara ton just enough as Sri Lanka see off England The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jun 1 , 2014 , 10.35AM IST Sangakkara 's 19th ODI century saw the 36-year-old take 13 balls to get off the mark. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Kumar Sangakkara 's first century at Lord 's laid the platform for Sri Lanka 's nail-biting seven-run series-levelling win against England in the fourth one-day international on Saturday . Just days after they 'd been shot out for 67 during a 10-wicket defeat at Old Trafford , Sri Lanka made 300 for nine after being sent into bat . Sangakkara 's 112 -- his first hundred at Lord 's in any format -- was the centrepiece and together with Tillakaratne Dilshan ( 71 ) , he put on 172 for the second wicket after they 'd managed just 15 runs between them in Manchester . England needed what would have been their joint second-highest total to win a one-day international . But their pursuit of a victory target of 301 was rocked immediately when Lasith Malinga reduced England to 10 for two by removing captain Alastair Cook and Ian Bell . But Jos Buttler , who came in with England in dire straits at 111 for five , brought the hosts back into the match with a brilliant maiden ODI hundred , the fastest ever scored at Lord 's . Together with Ravi Bopara ( 51 ) , the man-of-the-match shared a sixth-wicket stand of 133 that left England eyeing a remarkable win . England got the target down to 20 off two overs and then 12 off the last one , bowled by Malinga . Buttler took a first-ball single but Chris Jordan then drove Malinga straight to Dilshan at long on . Buttler then took two only to be run out for 121 off the fourth ball when he dug out a yorker straight back to Malinga . A target of nine off two balls was beyond new batsman James Tredwell and Malinga , who took three for 52 had again proved himself a superb 'death ' bowler . Earlier , Sangakkara 's 19th ODI century saw the 36-year-old take 13 balls to get off the mark . But such was the composure and experience of the left-hander , playing his 373rd match at this level , he never looked flustered . Sangakkara found his touch in the 18th over with three boundaries in successive balls from Joe Root . The number three drove the occasional off-spinner straight down the ground and next ball lofted him over mid-on before cover-driving him for a superb four . Dilshan fell , having faced 109 balls with just five fours , when he was bowled leg stump by Anderson after attempting one trademark 'Dilscoop ' shot too many . As well as representing a reversal of fortune for Sri Lanka , the innings was also something of a 'reality check ' for paceman Jordan , who took a career best five for 29 at Old Trafford but saw his 10 overs at Lord 's cost 67 runs . Sangakkara 's two off Jordan saw him to a 95-ball hundred with 13 fours. However , Sangakkara was dismissed soon afterwards when off-spinner Tredwell had him stumped by opposing wicketkeeper Buttler . Malinga struck with his first ball when he had Cook lbw on review with an inswinger before fellow opener Bell edged the 'slingshot ' seamer to Mahela Jayawardene at slip . Ballance ( 42 ) , who overturned his on-field dismissal on nought and Root ( 43 ) staunched the flow of wickets but the Yorkshire duo 's sedate stand of 84 contained just three fours as England , who went 21 overs without a boundary , fell behind the required run-rate . Sangakkara ended the third-wicket partnership by taking an excellent catch off spinner Mendis after Ballance played a reverse sweep . And when he stumped Eoin Morgan , England were 111 for five. But an undaunted Buttler hit cleanly and went to fifty by driving seamer Nuwan Kulasekara , whose 10 overs cost an expensive 81 runs , for six . Buttler even hooked and pulled Malinga for a six and a four off consecutive balls . Bopara offered excellent support before he top-edged a sweep off Mendis to short fine leg . Buttler kept going , driving Kulasekara over extra-cover for two sixes in consecutive balls . And when he got to three figures in 60 balls , with nine fours and four sixes , Buttler had recorded the quickest ODI hundred at Lord 's . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
