SC clears deck for announcement of RCA poll result The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Apr 30 , 2014 , 04.03PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The Supreme Court on Wednesday cleared the deck for declaration of result of Rajasthan Cricket Association elections and asked the poll observer to declare it on May 6 . Brushing aside the objection of BCCI which is expecting that the result might go in favour of former IPL commissioner Lalit Modi , a bench headed by Justice A R Dave directed the registry to send the results , filed in a sealed envelope , before it by its appointed observer Justice ( retd ) N M Kasliwal , to the observer to declare the result . The court , however , said that anyone aggrieved of the outcome of the elections can challenge it before an appropriate authority . The apex court had on November 20 , 2013 made its retired judge Justice Kasliwal a principal observer to oversee the elections . Modi was allowed to fight for the post of RCA President in the December 19 elections held under the supervision of a Supreme Court-appointed observer . Modi was slapped with a life ban on September 25 last year by the BCCI after its disciplinary committee found him guilty on eight charges of " indiscipline and misconduct " . The elections had become contentious because Modi was in the fray for presidentship . Challenging the election , the BCCI pleaded that Modi should not have been allowed to contest the poll and the election be quashed . The BCCI had challenged the Rajasthan Sports Act , 2005 allowing Modi to contest the RCA presidential election despite being banned for life by the Board . The BCCI disciplinary committee , comprising Arun Jaitley , and Jyotiraditya Scindia , had submitted a 134-page report in July , 2013 , in which it had found Modi guilty of financial irregularities , indiscipline and " actions detrimental to the interest of the BCCI " . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
