Selectors lean towards fresh faces for ODIs The author has posted comments on this article Ehtesham Hasan , TNN | Aug 6 , 2014 , 10.45AM IST 19-year-old prodigy from Kerala Sanju Samson was always considered India material. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Wicketkeeper batsman Sanju Samson and leg-spinner Karn Sharma are the two new faces in India 's 17-member squad for the five-match ODI series and one-off T20 against England , the first of which begins in Bristol on August 25 . Samson , the 19-year-old prodigy from Kerala and a Rahul Dravid protege at Rajasthan Royals , was always considered India material . The only question was when the Sandeep Patil-chaired committee would blood him . Samson 's impressive run of scores in the recently concluded quadrangular series in Australia may have finally encouraged the selectors to give him a go . That they have included him in the squad suggests that the selectors see him as someone who can handle the pressure when India travel Down Under to defend their World Cup title next year . Samson can open the batting too and that would provide some comfort to Dhoni as the current ODI opening pair of Shikhar Dhawan and Rohit Sharma has struggled on foreign pitches . Leg-spinner Karn Sharma 's all-round exploits in Australia recently won the selectors over. The 26-year-old from Meerut , who plies his wares for Railways and IPL team Sunrisers Hyderabad , belted some decisive cameos that swung a couple of games India 's way. Besides , he has a deceptive googly . Another one who could have got a look-in was Maharashtra batsman Kedhar Jadhav , who played an instrumental role in India 'A ' winning the quadrangular in Australia last week as the selectors put their faith in the tried and tested Suresh Raina yet again . The 29-year-old Jadhav , who bats in the middle-order , had finished as the second highest run-getter ( 225 @ 56.25 , S/R 119 ) behind Samson Down Under . Raina , on the other hand , was dropped for the Asia Cup in March following an extended lean patch . THE SQUAD : MS Dhoni ( captain ) , R Ashwin , S Binny , S Dhawan , R Jadeja , Virat Kohli ( vice-Captain ) , Dhawal Kulkarni , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Ajinkya Rahane , S Raina , Ambati Rayudu , Sanju Samson , Mohammed Shami , Karn Sharma , Mohit Sharma , R Sharma , Umesh Yadav . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
