Shastri effect helping India , feels Mumbai 's 'Class of 94' The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Sep 2 , 2014 , 12.10PM IST What can not be ignored is the contribution of Indian cricket 's 'crisis man, ' Ravi Shastri as Team Director. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : After being hammered in the Tests , India have stunned everyone by bouncing back in style in the One-dayers against England , taking a 2-0 lead . A change in format and the arrival of inform players has helped India 's cause , but what can not be ignored is the contribution of Indian cricket 's 'crisis man, ' Ravi Shastri as Team Director . The benefits of his presence have already been acknowledged by Raina after the left-hander hit a splendid hundred to set up India 's win in the second ODI . The change in India 's fortunes , post Shastri 's induction , is n't a surprise to Mumbai 's 'Class of '94'. That season , Shastri led a severely depleted Mumbai team , full of greenhorns , to the Ranji title , something that they had failed to achieve for the last decade , despite boasting of numerous stars in their line-up. Those who played under him swear by the 'Shastri effect.' " He is a great motivator - the best captain I ever played under. The self-belief he gave all of us - particularly the youngsters , was unbelievable , " former Mumbai stumper and then coach , Sulakshan Kulkarni told TOI on Monday . Kulkarni illustrated his point. " I remember he told Amol Muzumdar , who was yet to make his First Class debut , 'Just play this game as if you are playing a U-19 match. ' He ended up scoring a record 260 in his first game , " he recalled . One of the youngsters Shastri had a profound effect on that season was former India and Mumbai leggie Sairaj Bahutule . " Believe me , he is the best thing to happen to the Indian team right now - he certainly was the best thing to happen to me at that point in time. He changed the way I played my cricket. He had that special ability to bring out the best in you. He left a huge imprint on me. He was a taskmaster , " Bahutule gushed . Shedding light on Shastri 's tough-as-nails approach , Bahutule revealed , " In one game , I told him I wo n't be able to bowl because my index finger was bleeding. He told me : 'I do n't care , you have to bowl. ' I eventually ended up picking up four wickets , " the former leggie said . " His attitude was typically khadoos - keep at it. At the same time , he was a friend , in whom you could confide anything. He radiated positivity. There was an aura around him. He made us believe we could beat any team , " said Bahutule . Ex-India and Mumbai seamer Paras Mhambrey , who was in his debut season in 1994 , recalled another episode which reflects how Shastri backs his men . " At Faridabad , just before the pre-quarters against Haryana , I was checking the bounce on the match wicket , and received an earful from curator ( Sarkar Talwar ) . Shastri saw this from the dressing room , and ran to Talwar and told him : 'You have a problem , talk to me , not him. I 'm the captain. ' There was no need for Shastri to do that for me , but just the fact that he did , made a huge difference to me. " Mhambrey remembered . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
