Shikhar Dhawan named one of Wisden 's Five Cricketers of the Year The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Apr 9 , 2014 , 02.31PM IST Dhawan was the highest run-scorer during India 's triumph in the Champions Trophy. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : India 's swashbuckling opening batsman Shikhar Dhawan has been named as one of the Five Cricketers of the Year , an honour dating back to 1889 , by Wisden for his performance in 2013 . The 28-year-old Dhawan was the highest run-scorer during India 's triumph in the ICC Champions Trophy , amassing 363 runs in five ODIs at an average of 90.75. He was awarded Man of the Series for his performance that included centuries against South Africa and West Indies . His performance during the tournament in England was acknowledged by Wisden , which also named Australian duo Chris Rogers and Ryan Harris , England batsman Joe Root and England women 's captain Charlotte Edwards in the list . Opener Rogers , fast bowler Harris and Root were chosen for their contributions to the 2013 Ashes , while Edwards was acknowledged for leading the English side to the finals of the recent World Twenty20 . In 2013 , Dhawan scored 1162 runs in 26 ODIs at an average of 50.52 , but the left-hander is currently going through a dip in form and was dropped from the side after the Bangladesh match during the recent World Twenty20 . The Cricketer of the Year is chosen by the editor of the Wisden Cricketers ' Almanack , based on their " excellence in , or performance on , the previous English summer " . It can be won only once in a player 's career . Dale Steyn was Wisden 's Leading Cricketer in the World for 2013. He was the second South African to be selected for the award after Jacques Kallis in 2007 . Wisden editor , Lawrence Booth , however , criticised the sports administrators and dismissed the new ICC blueprint as " colonial-style divide and rule " , that meant " the rich would be getting a whole lot richer " . " Cricket is appallingly administered , and is vulnerable to economic exploitation by the country ( India ) powerful enough to exploit it and the two countries ( Australia and England ) prepared to lend their plans credibility , " Booth , editing the Almanack for the third time , wrote in the 151st edition of British-based Wisden . He added : " As India prepare to take their 'central leadership responsibility ' , international cricket holds its breath. " India , Australia and England -- together termed as the 'Big Three ' -- were handed the majority of the powers and revenue by ICC in February . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
