South Africa lose openers but tighten grip on Test The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jul 19 , 2014 , 12.54PM IST Sri Lanka 's Dilruwan Perera jumps away from the ball as South Africa 's Alviro Petersen ( L ) completes his run during the fourth day of their first Test in Galle on July 19 , 2014. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 GALLE : South Africa consolidated their lead on the fourth day of the first Test against Sri Lanka Saturday despite losing their opening batsmen to spinners Rangana Herath and Dilruwan Perera . After bundling out Sri Lanka for 292 , the Proteas moved to 63/2 at lunch in their second innings for an overall lead of 226 runs with eight wickets in hand . The visitors had made 455/9 declared in their first innings. New Test skipper Hashim Amla was batting on seven with Faf du Plessis on eight at the break . South Africa started off cautiously against a bowling attack that relied heavily on spin in the absence of frontline seamer Shaminda Eranga , who is injured . Opener Dean Elgar , who made 103 in the first innings , was the first batsman to fall as he tried to go for an ambitious drive off Herath ( 1-24 ) but nicked it behind to wicketkeeper Dinesh Chandimal . He faced 29 balls and hit two fours in his 12-run knock. Alviro Petersen ( 32 ) took on the spinners fearlessly , twice reverse-sweeping Perera in the same over for boundaries to step up the scoring . In the end it was Perera who brought Petersen 's promising innings to an end with a good length ball that he nicked to Chandimal . Earlier , South Africa wrapped up the Sri Lankan innings in the fifth over of the day with paceman Morne Morkel ( 3-49 ) sending back overnight batsman Herath for 19 . Herath edged the bowler to second slip where AB de Villiers dived to his left to pluck a stunning catch and bring the curtain down on Sri Lanka 's first innings . Sri Lanka added just nine runs to their overnight score of 283-9. Pace spearhead Dale Steyn was the star of the South African bowling , finishing with 5-54 , his 23rd five-wicket haul in Tests . The visitors were dealt a blow when paceman Vernon Philander was fined 75 percent of his match fee Friday after being accused of ball-tampering . Philander , who bowled 15 wicketless overs for 31 runs , did not bowl on Saturday . The second and final Test will be played in Colombo from July 24-28 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
