South Africa overrun Zimbabwe in one-off Test The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Aug 12 , 2014 , 10.18PM IST Piedt 's four for 62 in the second innings helped bowl Zimbabwe out for 181 midway through the final session of day four , before South Africa 's top three knocked off the 41 runs required for victory. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 HARARE : Dane Piedt recorded the best figures by a South African spinner on his debut as the tourists wrapped up a nine-wicket win over Zimbabwe in the one-off Test at Harare Sports Club on Tuesday . Piedt 's four for 62 in the second innings helped bowl Zimbabwe out for 181 midway through the final session of day four , before South Africa 's top three knocked off the 41 runs required for victory . It also gave Piedt match figures of eight for 162 , which eclipsed the seven for 189 taken by leg spinner Ian Smith on his debut against England in 1947 . " He bowled exceptionally well. The wicket did turn and offered a lot of assistance to the spinners , but he bowled brilliantly , " South Africa captain Hashim Amla said . " I never want to put any pressure on a youngster coming into South African cricket because I know how difficult it can be , but he 's got a promising future ahead. " Zimbabwe had begun the fourth day on 28 for one , still trailing by 113 runs , and only lost nightwatchman Donald Tiripano in the first session for the addition of 52 runs . However , Dale Steyn trapped Mark Vermeulen lbw in the fifth over after lunch , sparking a procession in which the hosts fell from 98 for two to 124 for seven . While Piedt caught and bowled opener Vusi Sibanda for 45 and also grabbed the prized wicket of Brendan Taylor , Morne Morkel bowled Regis Chakabva and then had Sean Williams brilliantly caught at backward point by JP Duminy . Although Richmond Mutumbami led an entertaining counter-attack that saw Zimbabwe level the scores shortly before the tea interval , Steyn returned to have the wicketkeeper caught behind for 43 and end the home side 's resistance . Steyn finished with match figures of eight for 84 as Zimbabwe were bowled out for 181 in their second innings , leaving South Africa with plenty of time to wrap up the match with a day to spare . Although Dean Elgar fell with two runs required for victory , Alviro Petersen and Faf du Plessis finished the game off . " We 've had to adapt a lot and play smart cricket to get the job done , and I think we 've done that really convincingly , " said Amla . " Winning in four days is as big a victory as you get on this type of surface. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
