Srinivasan set to attend ICC meeting in Dubai The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Apr 8 , 2014 , 06.42PM IST Under-fire N Srinivasan is all set to attend the ICC executive board meeting in Dubai on April 9-10. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Under-fire N Srinivasan is all set to attend the ICC executive board meeting in Dubai on April 9-10 as BCCI 's " representative " despite being sidelined from the Cricket Board 's affairs following a Supreme Court directive . A senior BCCI official confirmed that Srinivasan " will attend the ICC Board meeting " , according to 'ESPNcricinfo' . While the Supreme Court had shunted out Srinivasan from all affairs of the board , the two-judge bench had declined to pass an order in relation to his role in ICC affairs , saying it was an " internal " matter of the BCCI . Normally , the BCCI president is inducted onto the ICC board as a Director and the secretary attends the ICC Chief Executives Committee meetings . At every Annual General Meeting , it is the BCCI president who nominates the Board 's representative at ICC meetings , and at the last meeting held in Chennai on September 29 , 2013 , it was verbally decided that " Srinivasan will continue to be in the ( ICC ) executive board and Sanjay Patel ( secretary ) in the CEC. " Hours after the Supreme Court order , Patel had said that Srinivasan will remain BCCI 's representative at the ICC . But since then the Federation of International Cricketers ' Associations ( FICA ) has requested the ICC to sideline Srinivasan from the executive board and to not allow him to take over as the ICC chairman in July , at least until the time he is cleared of all the charges . The ICC has remained tightlipped over the issue ever since the Supreme Court had Srinivasan removed from his official position of BCCI president . " No comments at this stage , " ICC has been repeatedly saying . The BCCI has expressed confidence that it has not only acquired the apex court 's approval for Srinivasan to continue with his ICC responsibilities but claimed there will also be no protest from within the ICC Board towards his chairmanship . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
