Steyn stars in big South Africa win against Sri Lanka The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jul 20 , 2014 , 03.02PM IST South African captain Hashim Amla ( C ) celebrates with teammate Dale Steyn after victory in the opening Test against Sri Lanka at the Galle International Cricket Stadium. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 GALLE : Dale Steyn grabbed a match haul of 9-99 as South Africa thrashed Sri Lanka by 153 runs on Sunday on the fifth and final day of the first Test . Steyn 's figures , the best by a quick at the Galle ground , helped the visitors bowl out Sri Lanka twice in the match despite a wicket which offered little help . It was only South Africa 's third win on the island and their first since 2000 . Steyn was well-supported by seamer Morne Morkel , who picked up four wickets as Sri Lanka 's second innings ended on 216 shortly into the second session . Sri Lanka needed to make another 260 runs on the final day with nine wickets in hand to pull off a come-from-behind win. But they lost their remaining wickets for just 106 to go down tamely in the end . The victory was especially sweet for Hashim Amla , who was leading the side for the first time in Test cricket . Amla celebrated his winning start by hugging his teammates and exchanging high fives . South Africa can now reclaim their top world ranking from Australia if they win the second and final Test in Colombo from July 24-28 . Part-time spinner Jean-Paul Duminy picked up two wickets including the crucial scalp of Kumar Sangakkara , who made a fighting 76 to salvage some pride for the hosts . Sri Lanka , who had resumed on their overnight 110-1 , added just 51 off 24 overs in the first session while losing five wickets . Steyn , who had taken a five-wicket haul in the first innings , struck in the fourth over of the day to give his side the breakthrough they needed . His victim was opener Kaushal Silva ( 38 ) who nicked the seamer behind the wickets , where Quinton de Kock dived to his right to take a stunning catch . Silva 's dismissal ended a 104-run stand with Sangakkara for the second wicket , the highest of the innings . Sri Lanka were dealt a bigger blow off the first ball after the drinks break when Morkel had big-hitter Mahela Jayawardene caught behind for 10 . Sangakkara was dropped on 65 but failed to take advantage of the reprieve , pulling Duminy to short midwicket where Amla took a fine catch . He hit nine fours and a six in his 145-ball innings. The dismissal of Sangakkara and Jayawardene in quick succession infused new energy into the visitors . Lahiru Thirimanne was caught by AB de Villiers off Steyn for 12 , while Morkel had Dinesh Chandimal ( one ) caught behind by de Kock . Sri Lanka lost Dilruwan Perera ( zero ) to Steyn in the second over of the post-lunch session , the tailender offering an edge to de Kock who took five catches in the innings . Rangana Herath ( 20 ) was caught by de Villiers as he tried to play the sweep shot against Duminy . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
