Stuart Binny has justified his selection : Dravid The author has posted comments on this article Rohan Puri , TNN | Jul 18 , 2014 , 09.29AM IST Rahul Dravid rings the five-minute bell prior to the start of play on the first day of the second Test between England and India at Lord 's cricket ground on July 17 , 2014. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Former India captain Rahul Dravid urged the ICC to thoroughly investigate the Ravindra Jadeja-Jimmy Anderson controversy on Wednesday . " I actually had n't heard about it. I read it in the newspapers. I think the ICC is investigating the matter. The allegations are pretty serious and they need to be investigated , " Dravid told TOI in a telephonic conversation on Wednesday . Dravid , however , refused to connect this incident with the previous ones ( referring to the jelly-bean incident involving Zaheer Khan and the England team in 2007 ) and said , " They are two different incidents and I would not like to connect them. " Stuart Binny 's selection has led to a debate , drawing criticism from various experts. However , Dravid is of the view that Binny has justified his selection . " Well , I think he has definitely justified his selection with the bat and I thought he batted really well. It 's never easy to bat when you 're under that kind of pressure in your first game , and I thought he played really well. It was n't a wicket for his kind of bowling , so I 'm not that concerned. I think if the conditions suit his kind of bowling , then you will see he can bowl a lot better and he will be quite effective , " said Dravid. India 's opening pair of Murali Vijay and Shikhar Dhawan was not able to provide India with a solid start but again Dravid is not worried. " As a pair , the openers have not had a big partnership. They got off to a good start in the first Test but somehow Dhawan could not make it count. Vijay played really well and I am happy for him. He has worked very hard and he certainly deserved the century . It was a good from the Indian perspective. " Talking about the track at Trent Bridge , he said before the Test began , " None of us expected the pitch to be slow. Everyone is going to hope for a better pitch at Lord 's.. . Rahul Dravid was elected as the newest member of Laureus World Sports Academy , becoming the 47th member of the panel . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
