Team India vows to put controversies behind The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 7 , 2014 , 10.57AM IST The stage is set for resumption of some serious cricket , weather permitting. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MANCHESTER : The James Anderson-Ravindra Jadeja spat that had cast a dark shadow over the ongoing series finally lifted on Wednesday , but the dark clouds and intermittent drizzle robbed both teams of valuable practice on the eve of the fourth Test . The pitch at the Old Trafford sweated under layers of cover and large parts of the outfield were rendered soggy by nagging rain , forcing Alastair Cook and his 'English Lions ' to train at the adjoining indoor facility in the morning. MS Dhoni and his boys , who trained in the afternoon , enjoyed mild sunshine , but had to make do with a curtailed nets session . With more rain predicted on all five days of the Test , a full game looks unlikely even though the drainage system here is far more modern than in other parts of the world . Overcast and wet conditions , therefore , could have a huge bearing on team selection in a match that could potentially decide the fate of the series . Cook , who has used part-time off-spinner Moeen Ali very intelligently in the series , has stuck to four pacers to do the job. Given the squad at his disposal , Cook is in no position to abandon this formula . He only has to choose his options carefully , for he will need four fit and eager pace bowlers who can bowl India out twice , preferably in four days . The conditions and the pitch will no doubt suit England pacers , who have stronger arms and few yards of additional pace than their Indian counterparts. In absence of sustained sunshine , required to suck out all the moisture from the pitch , Dhoni may have second thoughts on sacrificing a sixth batsman in order to include off-spinner R Ashwin . Over-confidence proved to be Rohit Sharma 's undoing at Southampton , and he will lose his spot only if Dhoni wants to play a fifth bowler . Gautam Gambhir too has an outside chance of replacing an out-of-sorts opener Shikhar Dhawan , but Dhoni is clearly not losing his sleep over the lack of runs from Virat Kohli 's bat . " I agree that he has not converted his starts into big scores , but he has been batting well. Given the kind of talent he possesses , it is a matter of just one innings , " Dhoni reasoned. The skipper also felt that Kohli will emerge from this phase as a better player . " Sometimes , when you are doing very well , you do n't know how to handle the situation when things go wrong. He is sure to learn from this up-and down phase , " Dhoni added . The good thing from India 's point of view is that the pitch looked largely unaffected by rain and batting first should be the preferred option if Dhoni wins the toss after having lost two in a row . The Indian skipper , who acknowledged that his team never looked like getting 20 wickets at Southampton , promised to address the issue along with improved catching . " We also need to look to put up as big a score on the board as it puts pressure on the opposition , " reminded Dhoni , who is likely to keep faith in Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Mohammad Shami and Pankaj Singh as his three principal pacers. Varun Aaron will step in if one of the three pulls out late . Cook , having got back among runs and having led England to victory , finds himself in a happy space for the first time in the season . With Dhoni assuring that neither he , nor his team , will be suffering from a hangover from the Anderson-Jadeja episode , the stage is set for resumption of some serious cricket , weather permitting . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
