The second coming of Ambati Rayudu The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Sep 1 , 2014 , 12.31PM IST Rayudu hit an unbeaten 64 to guide India home against England in Trent Bridge. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : When Ambati Rayudu hit an unbeaten 64 to guide India home against England in Trent Bridge on Saturday , after the chase looked shaky once , one man 's 'wait ' was finally over . Back in 1992 , an enthusiastic seven-year-old boy had approached Vijay Paul and Nagesh Hammond 's 'camp ' in the Gymkhana in Secunderabad to learn cricket . " He appeared as a special boy right away. When he was 10 , I put him in the 'senior nets, ' where he looked at ease against boys far bigger his age. At 13 , I played him in an 'A ' division game , and he hit a hundred on debut. He did n't look back after that. His big moments came at the U-16 and the U-19 level , " Rayudu 's coach Paul , told TOI . Rayudu 's 'big moments ' included scoring an unbeaten 177 against England for the India U-19 team in 2002 , and then captaining the side in the under-19 World Cup in Dhaka . " He should have played for India when he was a teenager , " rued Paul . " He was a prodigy that time. He deserved an opportunity to play for India much earlier , " felt former India stumper and chief selector Kiran More too . However , while a few from that '04 U-19 World Cup batch - like Suresh Raina , Irfan Pathan and Dinesh Karthik - did go on to play for India , Rayudu , despite all his talent , lurched in wilderness due to controversies he , and those associated with him , want to forget about now . He migrated to the Indian Cricket League ( ICL ) in 2007 , before coming back into the mainstream. Life seemed to be going nowhere for him , and one thought that Indian cricket had lost him for good , Rayudu struck gold . The Mumbai Indians signed him up for the 2010 season , and the rest , as they say , is history . Another factor that helped Rayudu bounce back was the move to play for Baroda . " He has really blossomed since moving to Baroda and MI. In Baroda he has had the chance to bat on fast , difficult wickets , which has improved his game , " More felt . It has n't been as easy a ride for Rayudu in Team India. It can be tough when you 're seen as a 'reserve ' player all the time , and only get your chance when someone breaks a bone or is out of form . It happened in England too. It was only an injury to Rohit Sharma that created a vacancy for him. And Rayudu caught the opportunity with both hands . The ease with which Rayudu batted suggests that he could be the 'all-conditions man ' India desperately need , especially with the World Cup in Australia and New Zealand not far away . " He 's got a quality technique , which means he can play on all surfaces. He 's a smart cricketer , who knows when to pick up one and twos , and when to hit boundaries , " said More . More felt Rayudu now deserved a spot in the first XI right away . " At 28 , he 's got his opportunity pretty late , but he must be played consistently now. He 's a quality batsman , and the experience of 13 years of First class cricket has helped him become better. As far as our World Cup plans are concerned , he could strategically be a key player , " More said . Paul felt Rayudu 's tremendous 'mental strength ' had helped him overcome what was a tough phase for the cricketer . " He is mentally very tough. He has become calmer , more attentive now. He is solely focused on the game , " Paul revealed . Having waited for a long , long time to see Rayudu sizzle in India colours , the coach felt content. His 'special boy ' was finally doing 'special ' things . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
