Thirimanne issues 'Mankad ' warning to England The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jun 6 , 2014 , 01.37PM IST Sri Lanka 's Sachithra Senanayake ran out England 's Jos Buttler during their ODI at Edgbaston in Birmingham. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NORTHAMPTON : Sri Lanka 's Lahiru Thirimanne insisted Thursday the tourists would have no qualms about running out an England batsman backing up too far during their upcoming Test series , despite the furore over Jos Buttler 's dismissal at Edgbaston . Sachithra Senanayake ran out England 's Buttler as the non-striker , who only days earlier had made a blistering hundred at Lord 's , for 21 during Sri Lanka 's 3-2 series-clinching victory in the fifth and final one-day international at Edgbaston on Tuesday . Although a perfectly legal dismissal , the exit of Buttler sparked a global debate about whether it was within the 'spirit of cricket ' -- even though the bowler had previously warned the batsman . " We actually warned him twice , he was taking starts after we warned him so I think that 's the rule of the game , " Sri Lanka vice-captain Thirimanne told reporters on Thursday . " After the first time he has to learn , if he 's doing two or three times you ca n't help it , " Thirimanne added . Asked if they 'd be prepared to dismiss a batsman in such a manner during the two-Test series against England , which starts at Lord 's a week on Thursday , Thirimanne replied : " Yes , if he 's taking unfair starts , we 'll warn him , warn twice and after that... " Asked if the incident involving Buttler , not included in England 's 12-man squad for Lord 's announced Thursday , could lead to ill-feeling in the Test series , Thirimanne replied : " England , in the one-day tournament came at us really hard , I do n't think they 'll come at us much harder ( in the Tests ) . " We 'll expect some good cricket and we 're looking forward to it. " Buttler 's exit was only the eighth reported instance of a 'Mankad ' , the term coined after India 's Vinoo Mankad ran out Australia non-striker Bill Brown during the 1947/48 Sydney Test , at international level, Thirimanne was speaking after making 120 not out on the first day of Sri Lanka 's four-day warm-up match against Northamptonshire . Together with opener Kaushal Silva ( 152 not out ) he 'd so far shared an unbroken stand of 238 at Northampton . But left-hander Thirimanne , captaining the side in the absence of the rested Angelo Mathews , had a huge slice of good fortune when he was dropped first ball by teenage wicketkeeper Ben Duckett off a regulation chance . " It was nice to have some time in the middle. It was a nice ball , I just nicked it and I was lucky to bat through the rest of the day 's play , " he said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
