Thorns for Team India at Rose Bowl The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 1 , 2014 , 06.32AM IST England 's Moeen Ali ( second right ) celebrates after dismissing India 's Bhuvneshwar Kumar ( unseen ) during the third Test match at the Rose Bowl cricket ground in Southampton. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SOUTHAMPTON : India 's spineless display of batting catapulted part-time spinner Moeen Ali into overnight stardom and helped England to register a comprehensive 266-run win in the third Test at the Ageas Bowl on Thursday The result was never in doubt after India were reduced to 112/4 on Day four . Those who paid good money to watch the remaining Indian batsmen putting up a good fight went back highly disappointed as England wrapped up the match well before lunch on the final morning . It was India 's 15th Test loss under Mahendra Singh Dhoni . Only the late Mansur Ali Khan Pataudi , after whom the trophy for the ongoing series is named , lost more matches ( 19 ) than Dhoni. And the fact that 13 of these losses have come after Dhoni led India to World Cup glory in 2011 , tells its own story . India 's latest debacle under Dhoni could have looked far worse but for the benevolence of his opposite number in England ranks. Alastair Cook had clearly overestimated India 's survival capacity in the last innings on a rapidly deteriorating pitch. After his bowlers rolled India over in the second innings for just 178 runs in 66.4 overs , Cook must be ruing not having enforced the follow-on. After all , winning by an innings is far more satisfying than by 200-odd runs . The biggest satisfaction from England 's splendid victory must have been derived by Ali who finished with career-best figures of 6/67. Ali , ordered by the ICC to take off his " Save Gaza " and " Free Palestine " wristbands , would have been tempted to dedicate his match-winning feat to the " cause " he has been championing . It 's not the first time that a part-time spinner ran through an Indian line-up in the second innings. Australia 's Michael Clarke had sensationally run through India 's line-up on a treacherous Mumbai track in 2004 , grabbing the last six wickets for just nine runs ! It was , however , not in a winning cause . With 15 wickets in three Tests , Ali has emerged as a very viable fifth bowling option for Cook , who has been juggling his four-pronged pace attack quite deftly. " To bowl the way he did on a turning track on the fifth day of the match...I could n't have asked for anything more , " said Cook of Ali , who now has 15 scalps . It was Anderson , who dealt the first two blows on the final morning before Ali stepped in to polish off the tail. England 's premier pace bowler , who celebrated his 32nd birthday on Wednesday by picking up his 16th five-wicket haul to end India 's first innings , produced two perfect outswingers to draw edges from the bats of Rohit Sharma and Dhoni . There was some confusion about Sharma 's dismissal with the Hot Spot failing to pick up any edge but real-time snicko clearly suggesting contact between bat and ball , but there was none whatsoever in the case of Dhoni. The Indian captain , who had to reach for the ball while playing away from his body , 'walked ' as soon as he nicked it . Ali then picked up two in one over as Ravindra Jadeja deflected the ball onto his stumps in a bid to dig out a yorker , while Bhuvneshwar popped one to gully while lunging forward . Shami and Pankaj both misread the line and were castled by Ali , leaving Rahane unbeaten on a fighting 52. It was a fighting knock from the man who had thrown his hand away in the first innings. However , with no support , his effort went in vain as England levelled the series 1-1 . WHERE INDIA LOST IT While England played out of their skins to square the series at Southampton , India need to introspect too. Besides failing to cope with James Anderson 's prodigous swing , the visitors floundered on several counts. TOI does a post mortem FALSE START After the high of the Lord 's win , India should have looked to continue beating England on the field , rather than off it. Instead , skipper MS Dhoni chose to sulk in front of the media about Ravindra Jadeja being fined after his alleged spat with Anderson. Then , it emerged that that the hero of the Lord 's triumph , Ishant Sharma , would miss out. To make it worse , Dhoni after being brave by playing five bowlers earlier in the series , got defensive and opted for six batsmen . SLIP-SHOD FIELDING India dished out one of the worst slip fielding displays you will see ever , and it cost them heavily. It started with Jadeja dropping Alastair Cook off Pankaj Singh at third slip , and then , the malaise spread to others. Later , Shikhar Dhawan grassed Jos Buttler at first slip taking the number of ` drops ' in the slips to an astonishing six. India still have n't identified the personnel in the slip cordon . SHAMI LOSES FIZZ Mohammad Shami is enduring a forgettable tour. The 24-year-old talented seamer took the first wicket for India in this game , but failed to add to his tally after that. That he was given barely four overs in England 's second innings , shows how off-colour he has been. In three Tests so far , he has taken five wickets @ 73.20 . BATTING DISORDER The spine of the Indian batting is dodgy and it 's causing India pain. Shikhar Dhawan has looked edgy against the moving ball. The left-hander has scored just 122 runs in six innings. The out-of-form Virat Kohli ( 101 in six innings @ 16.83 ) may end up being one of the biggest disappointments of this tour. Cheteshwar Pujara 's failure added to their problems . IT 'S MOEEN NOT MURALI The Test turned when Rohit Sharma and Ajinkya Rahane threw their wickets away to Moeen Ali 's off spin in the first innings. Both underestimated the part-timer. In the second dig , the Indians treated Moeen like Muralitharan. Apart from Rahane , no one was willing to attack him. Agreed that India were trying to save the Test , but on a deteriorating track , a bolder approach was needed . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
