Three bosses , one big muddle in Team India The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Aug 26 , 2014 , 11.53AM IST Has Dhoni ruffled too many feathers in the BCCI for his own good ? ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : It would make for a good Kaun Banega Crorepati question right now. Who exactly is the 'boss ' in Team India ? Ravi Shastri the new director of cricketing affairs or captain MS Dhoni , who Shastri likes to believe is the leader ? Or is it coach Duncan Fletcher , who Dhoni claims is in charge ? Or is it all three of them ? After Ravi Shastri 's appointment a week ago following India 's poor performance in India along with those of assistant coaches Sanjay Bangar , Bharat Arun ( fielding coach ) and R Sridhar ( fielding coach ) , Indian cricket board ( BCCI ) secretary Sanjay Patel had claimed that the team was Shastri 's " baby " . A board official has told TOI , " You can say that Shastri is the captain , while Fletcher is the vice-captain. " However , the logic of this new structure sounded fuzzy when , days after Ravi Shastri said in an interview to Times Now that Dhoni was in charge , the skipper himself asserted before the first ODI in Bristol that coach Fletcher was still the 'boss ' and would remain as coach till the 2015 World Cup . It 's also unclear if Shastri himself will stay on till the World Cup . With confusion reigning and the protagonists speaking in different voices , it was left to an embarrassed BCCI secretary Sanjay Patel to clear the air , saying Dhoni 's comments were his " personal opinion " . On Monday , a top board official told TOI , " What he ( Dhoni ) has said seems to be his own perception. He may not have understood our brief properly , or he may have put it in different words. Our stand is very clear. In this situation , Shastri is the boss to whom everyone reports. Fletcher may look after the day-to-day affairs of the team , but it is Shastri who will give a direction to the side and oversee everything . " After the tour , Shastri 's report will be the most critical document for us. If he observes that Fletcher is n't up to the mark , it wo n't be far-fetched to say we will sack him. The same goes for Dhoni. Now if Shastri is going to evaluate Fletcher 's performance , then who is the boss ? " The source added : " It seems Dhoni feels Shastri will be some sort of administrative manager. That 's not the case. " Shastri , according to the board , is on a 'fact-finding ' mission to investigate what went wrong with India in the Tests against England . In the press conference on Sunday , Dhoni had also talked about the 'unfair ' removal of the support staff. " It 's a bit tough on Trevor and Joe , especially when fielders drop catches and the fielding coach has to miss the series , " he had said. The BCCI official said : " We agree it is a harsh decision , but then hard decisions need to be taken at times. How can you not question the role of the fielding coach if a young team drops that many catches ? We are not here to do charity. " Has Dhoni , who is himself under scrutiny for poor leadership outside the subcontinent , ruffled too many feathers in the BCCI for his own good ? Clearly , the skipper and the BCCI are not on the same page anymore. To add to this , there seems to be no clarity on who is calling the shots in the India camp . Going into an important ODI series , with the World Cup not too far away , India bear an unsettled look . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
