Titanic tussle on the cards The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 25 , 2014 , 05.40AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SOUTHAMPTON : It is somewhat ironic that England , 0-1 down in the five-Test series against India , will launch their revival campaign at this sunny port city from where the RMS Titanic had set sail on its disastrous maiden voyage in 1912. Sotonians ( local residents ) , who lost over 600 , mostly crew members , in the disaster , continue to nurse a troubled legacy that is now 102 years old . The burden on England captain Alastair Cook and his mates is nowhere as heavy. They have only to carry the cross of the Lord 's loss even as they look to get back on even terms in the series that is still wide open . The door may be far from being shut on them , but the English team management must coax their batsmen to give a " no hooking " undertaking before setting sail in search for victory . While Cook and Co. will take heart from the fact that India are hardly an iceberg of the size that the Titanic had run into , MS Dhoni 's lads by now know for certain England are certainly not as strongly built like the ill-fated ocean-liner. The contest at a refurbished Ageas Bowl promises to be Titanic simply because England can ill afford a second loss on the trot while India would loath to surrender the advantage they gained at Lord 's . In the given scenario , both sides are expected to press for a win but wo n't mind settling for a draw to avoid a loss . Much like at Lord 's , the pitch here was kept under cover the whole day , ostensibly to keep the moisture in the top soil intact. It might just be the kind of surface that gives England pacers a chance to make amends after disappointing big time on the Lord 's made-to-order green top . It would be interesting to see how India approach the third Test for they are not accustomed to leading in a series while playing abroad . It remains to be seen whether Dhoni keeps faith in his five-bowler formula and persists with two half-baked all-rounders — who either add up to a complete batsman or a front-line bowler — or chooses to play safe by including an extra batsman. But the Indian captain , starved of success outside the sub-continent , will do what it takes to either protect the lead or enhance it . Bowlers , particularly pacers of both sides , have had to work very hard in the two Tests so far , and the script is unlikely to change much at the 'Bowl ' , which being a new ground , does n't have too much history attached to it . It is a big ground , with lush green outfield and picturesque surrounding that could test batsmen 's resolve and keep pacers interested right through the five days as the bounce in the pitch dies a slow death . It has been a see-saw battle so far in the series with both sides failing to sustain pressure. If India find themselves in front by a short head , it is because unlike England they have been audacious without being adventurous . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
