Ton-up Elgar shines for South Africa The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jul 16 , 2014 , 03.30PM IST Dean Elgar raises his bat and helmet in celebration after scoring a century during the first day of the opening Test against Sri Lanka at the Galle International Cricket Stadium. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 GALLE : Opener Dean Elgar hit an unbeaten 102 to guide South Africa to 194/1 at tea on the opening day of the first Test against Sri Lanka on Wednesday . The 27-year-old left-hander smashed 11 fours and three sixes in what was only his third Test innings as an opener and first outside South Africa . He also shared 70 runs for the opening wicket with Alviro Petersen ( 34 ) and another 124 runs with Faf du Plessis ( 57 not out ) after new Test skipper Hashim Amla chose to bat on a placid track at the Galle International Stadium . Elgar , playing his 10th Test , reached his second century in style , dancing down the track to smack off-spinner Dilruwan Perera for a massive six over the fence . The visitors ' dressing room erupted in applause for what was the first ton by any South African opener on the island . Elgar 's form bodes well for a side going through transition after the retirement of Graeme Smith , Mark Boucher and Jacques Kallis . Plessis , batting at number three for the first time in 15 Tests , also appeared at ease against the bowling attack , which relied heavily on spin . Earlier , Petersen was particularly severe on left-arm spinner Rangana Herath , welcoming him with four boundaries in his first over of the day . Elgar in turn picked fast bowler Shaminda Eranga for special treatment , hitting him for three fours in the same over , including one that crashed away through the point boundary . Desperate for a breakthrough , Sri Lankan skipper Angelo Mathews made frequent bowling changes but failed to find success until the 17th over , when Perera ( 66/1 ) had Petersen trapped leg before wicket . Petersen was unhappy with the decision of on-field umpire Richard Kettleborough and asked for a review . The decision was upheld when replays showed the ball would have clipped leg-stump . South Africa have picked a lone specialist spinner in Imran Tahir with JP Duminy as a part-time off-spinner . Sri Lanka chose two slow bowlers in Herath and Perera . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
