Top honours for Virat Kohli , Shikhar Dhawan The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Jun 3 , 2014 , 10.01AM IST Dhawan dedicated his award to his son. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Three prominent players of the Indian cricket team , Virat Kohli , who was named CEAT International Cricket of the Year for the second time , Shikhar Dhawan ( adjudged ODI Player of the Year ) and R Ashwin ( Indian Player of the Year ) won significant honours at the CEAT Cricket Rating ( CCR ) International awards , at a glittering function on Monday night . The best 'stroke ' of the evening , however , came from the bat of former Pakistan opener-turned commentator , Rameez Raza , who hosted the event . Rameez revealed that Nawaz Sharif , Pakistan 's current Prime Minister , had been a First Class Cricketer . " Nawaz has played First Class cricket. He played for the same club as I did. Imran also played for the same side , but they do n't see eye to eye these days , mainly due to political reasons " Rameez recalled , sending the audience into splits . " Nawaz was a fierce cutter of the ball. He plays with a straight bat , as you might have seen during his recent ( India ) visit , " he added . Rameez then narrated a hilarious anecdote about Sharif 's passion for cricket . " After we won the '92 World Cup , Nawaz called us over and congratulated the team . He told me : 'I have two complaints against you. You did n't invite me for your marriage. ' 'My apologies , I thought you are a PM , so you must be busy, ' I excused myself . 'My second issue is that you caught my fierce cut at point, ' he said. Stumped by this , I answered : 'I would have never taken that catch , had I known that you would become a PM. ' He really enjoys his cricket , " Rameez reminisced . He also revealed that Sharif had " played against the mighty Windies in a practice game before the 1987 World Cup in the sub-continent. Imran told the West Indians to take it easy , since he was an amateur player , and a chief minister back then. However , they bowled five bouncers on the trot to him , before sending his middle stump cartwheeling off the sixth ball ! " Rameez remembered . Rameez termed the India-Pak contest as the 'baap ' of all , and batted for it to be resumed soon . Former India batsman VVS Laxman felt that Pakistan could play in India , on a short tour . " You could n't afford to give your wicket to Kapil Dev when Imran was the captain. Once , Imran scolded me for that despite the fact that I had scored a hundred. Imran would scream at me , asking me to observe Gavaskar closely , " said Rameez . Dhawan dedicated his award to his son. " I wanted to dedicate a Man of the Match award to him after he was born , but I did n't win any MoMs after that and the wait had become long ! So now , I dedicate this to my son , " he said , invoking peals of laughter . Robin Uthappa , part of the IPL-winning KKR team , was named the 'Domestic Player of the Year. ' Former India wicketkeeper Syed Kirmani , meanwhile , won the Lifetime Achievement award . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
