Tough to convince Ishant to bowl short : Dhoni The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 22 , 2014 , 09.49AM IST " It was , perhaps , my last Test at Lord 's as I do n't see myself coming back here , " Dhoni said. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Mahendra Singh Dhoni got lucky the third time as the Indian captain saw his team seal an emphatic 95-run win over England in his third appearance in a Test match at Lord 's . Dhoni , who had batted for nearly four hours , mostly in the company of tailenders to help Rahul Dravid-led Team India salvage a draw in 2007 , had seen his side surrender to England by 196 runs in 2011 . The following are excerpts from Dhoni 's post-match interaction with the media : On his team 's 95-run win : It was hard work and team effort. It is important to realise that you wo n't always get the result in your favour. In the last two series we played abroad , we were in a position to seal victories but somehow failed to do that in spite of the bowlers putting in a great effort. So it was important to keep working hard. It is only because of that we were able to win this game . On the odds against his team : There was a lot of pressure on us. I lost a crucial toss and we had to battle hard in the first session when there was moisture in the wicket. I felt that the openers and the No. 3 batsman coped with it well before Rahane came up with a special knock. Bhuvneshwar bowled well in the first and Ishant in the second . On winning at Lord 's : It was , perhaps , my last Test at Lord 's as I do n't see myself coming back here. Lord 's is special but then every match is special. It is great to win Tests outside India . On Ishant 's short-pitched bowling : To start with it was very difficult to convince him. When he first came on to bowl I told him bowl short and set the field in such manner that he does n't even think of pitching it up. It worked , and once he got Moeen Ali 's wicket , he was eager to persist with it. He has really worked hard on his fitness and he gives one hundred percent. There is no reason why he should n't try bowling short as he has the height to exploit the bounce and put pressure on batsmen . On using the short ball as a tactic : Unlike Australia , we do n't have many bowlers who can bowl consistent bowl short and be effective. If I was Mitchell Johnson , I would n't pitch it up irrespective of who is the batsman. Ishant is someone who can do that , but I ca n't ask Bhuvi to bowl like that. Even Shami can bowl quick but he does n't get much bounce from the pitch. We just wanted to exploit the conditions and throw a challenge to them. In this case we were lucky and it worked in our favour . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
