Usain Bolt to challenge Yuvraj Singh in cricket at Chinnaswamy The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Aug 27 , 2014 , 12.18PM IST Sources expect light-hearted banter between Bolt and Yuvraj to keep the crowd entertained. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BANGALORE : The theory that ball travels faster than man will be put to the test on September 2 when world and Olympic champion Usain Bolt takes on India 's Yuvraj Singh in a cricketing showdown at the Chinnaswamy stadium . Jamaica 's Bolt , who has been roped in by his sponsor Puma , will play a tennis ball match with the Indian southpaw for about an hour. Yuvraj 's friend and former India off-spinner Harbhajan Singh too is part of the show along with another IPL player . " We are expecting around 4,0005,000 pass-holders to watch them in action between 4-5pm next Tuesday , " sources told TOI . " The game is likely to be six players-a-side. Each team may play around 3-4 overs. " Clarity on the number of players and overs may emerge in the next few days but the organisers are excited about what Bolt and Yuvraj would do on the field besides playing cricket . Bolt 's cricketing skills and love for the game are well known , with West Indian batsman Chris Gayle , who was bowled by the sprinter in a charity match in Jamaica last year , saying that Bolt had very nearly " knocked my head off with a good , competitive bouncer. " While the tennis ball to be used at the Chinnaswamy will pose no such danger , sources expect light-hearted banter between Bolt and Yuvraj to keep the crowd entertained . " Both are exuberant , lively persons. We would expect them to feed off each other 's performance to come up with something spontaneous , " they said . The stars will also perform a few skills on the field after the match . The entire show will be held closer to the stands for the spectators to get a better view of the action , it is learnt . After a foot surgery and a hamstring injury , Bolt has run only four times this year. He clocked the world 's best for an indoor 100m run with 9.98sec in Warsaw last Saturday . Earlier , he ran on the Copacabana beach in Rio de Janeiro in a 'Mano-a-mano ' race where he timed 10.06sec. At the Commonwealth Games , he was on the track twice , helping Jamaica to the 4x100m relay gold . The IAAF Diamond League Final in Zurich was to be his final competition but Bolt withdrew from it before announcing that he had decided to end his campaign this season. He will resume training in October . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
