Utseya hat-trick in vain as South Africa beat Zimbabwe The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Aug 29 , 2014 , 09.01PM IST South African captain Hashim Amla hits the ball during the third match of the triangular series against Zimbabwe at the Harare Sports Club on Friday. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 HARARE : South Africa survived a batting collapse precipitated by a hat-trick from spinner Prosper Utseya to beat Zimbabwe by 61 runs in the third match of the triangular series on Friday . Utseya , who finished with career-best figures of five for 36 , became only the second Zimbabwean to take a hat-trick in a one-day international as South Africa delivered an off-key batting performance to be bowled out for 231 . But Zimbabwe , with their best chance of rare win over a major cricketing power , fell well short of the target as they were bowled out for 170 off 38.3 overs . South Africa , who convincingly beat Australia thanks to a fine batting display on Wednesday , raced to 142 after 24 overs before stand-in captain Hashim Amla was stumped off Utseya for 66 . Five runs later fellow opener Quinton de Kock also departed , caught for a run-a-ball 76 as he tried to reverse sweep to become the first of Utseya 's hat-trick victims . Rilee Rossouw was caught at first slip from the next ball and the big-hitting David Miller was trapped lbw as Utseya bowled an attacking line to the left-hander . Utseya took his fifth wicket when he trapped JP Duminy lbw . VALUABLE WICKET South African wickets continued to tumble at regular intervals as they teetered at 195 for nine with seven overs left before a last-wicket partnership of 36 lifted them to a more respectable total . Imran Tahir made 23 not out to ensure the visitors used up all but one ball of their allocated 50 overs . Impressive hitting from Sikandar Raza and Hamilton Masakadza gave Zimbabwe a confident start but spinner Aaron Phangiso bowled the beefy Masakadza with his fourth ball and uprooted the wicket of the dangerous Brendan Taylor for a duck . Sean Williams and Malcolm Waller put together a 46-run fifth wicket partnership but Waller was caught off a short delivery from Dale Steyn and Williams , who top-scored for Zimbabwe with 46 runs off 79 balls , holed out to Amla at midwicket off Ryan McLaren . The last four wickets went for 17 runs to give South Africa , whose regular one-day captain AB de Villiers missed the game with a viral infection , a comfortable win with more than 10 overs to spare . " We have to learn to win games. We work hard in the nets but come the games we fall short , " Zimbabwe captain Elton Chigumbura told reporters . " It 's in the head. It 's about how much you want it. Today we did n't show it. " The only previous Zimbabwean to take an ODI hat trick was Eddo Brandes against England in Harare in 1997 . The next game in the seven-match triangular series is on Sunday when Zimbabwe face Australia . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
