Veteran spinner Murali Kartik retires from competitive cricket The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jun 14 , 2014 , 07.09PM IST " I want to thank everyone for their support and felt that it is the right time to go. I have enjoyed playing this game and it has given me a lot , " Murali Kartik said. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Veteran left-arm spinner Murali Kartik on Saturday retired from competitive cricket having played eight Tests and 37 ODIs for India between 1999 and 2007 taking 24 and 37 wickets respectively . However it was first-class cricket where Kartik was always a force to reckon with 644 wickets from 203 games which also included stints with English county sides like Middlesex , Surrey and Somerset . " I have decided to hang up my boots from all forms of competitive cricket but will honour my commitments for Kings XI Punjab during this year 's Champions League T20. I want to thank everyone for their support and felt that it is the right time to go. I have enjoyed playing this game and it has given me a lot , " Kartik said in a press conference . " I would like to thank my parents and wife Shweta for their support , my coaches MP Singh , Gurcharan Singh and the greatest motivator of all Bishan Singh Bedi. Not to forget the influence that Maninder Singh had on my career , " said one of the premier left-arm spinners in the world . Kartik also thanked BCCI 's president-in-exile N Srinivasan as he first got a chance to play competitive cricket for India Cements . " I would like to thank N Srinivasan sir and Kasi sir ( Kashi Viswanthan ) for giving a chance to play Buchi Babu as a teenager for Vijay Sports Club. My first captain VB Chandrasekhar who gave me a lot of confidence. " Asked about his high point in international cricket , Kartik said , " The Mumbai Test ( match haul of 7/76 ) where I won the man-of-the-match award will always be special as we were able to restrict an Australian side chasing 103 ( 107 ) . Also when Sachin presented me with my India Test cap and Kapil Paaji ( then coach ) presented the India hat. " Talking about his best captain , he said , " It 's got to be Azzu bhai ( Mohammed Azharuddin ) , who would tell you that as a bowler , you should be knowing what to do rather than me telling you. " He profusely thanked Indian Railways as a team that had a lot of intent despite limitations . " Winning the Ranji Trophy in 2001 gave us a lot of joy. We beat teams like Bengal and Tamil Nadu before beating Baroda in the final. We were defending a first-innings score of 270-odd and Baroda were over 100 for no loss. We won it from there and it was a special feeling . " In Railways , we never had the facilities but we believed in each other and stood by one and another. Probably that 's an ingredient that a learned man like Sanjay ( Bangar ) carried in his job when he decided to take up the Kings XI assignment , " said Kartik , who will be seen more as a media pundit rather than getting into full fledged coaching role . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
