Vijay hits a gutsy fifty as India lead by 145 after Day 3 The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jul 19 , 2014 , 11.05PM IST Indian opener Murali Vijay acknowledges the crowd after scoring a half-century against England during the third day of the second Test match at Lord 's cricket ground in London. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : India lost three wickets in quick succession but fought back through Murali Vijay 's gutsy half-century to take their overall lead to 145 , leaving the second cricket Test against England interestingly poised on Saturday At stumps on third day , India were 169 for four despite a solid 78-run second wicket stand between Vijay ( 59 batting ) and Cheteshwar Pujara ( 43 ) . Vijay is in company of skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni , who survived a hostile spell from Stuart Broad to remain undefeated on 12 off 51 balls having added crucial 46 runs with Vijay for the fifth wicket . The Tamil Nadu opener has shown tremendous patience during his 190-ball knock today which had seven fours but more impressive was his decisiveness while leaving deliveries outside the off-stump . With England batting deep , it will be interesting to see what kind of target is set by the Indian batsmen. India will be aiming for a lead of 250 plus in order to make a match of it on a Lord 's track which will then help Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Co to exploit the conditions . It was 6/82 was the main reason for India getting England out for 319 in their first innings thereby restricting the first innings lead to 24 . For England , it was Liam Plunkett , who started the collapse by first inducing a nick from Pujara , who again looked good for a big knock. Virat Kohli ( 0 ) 's error in judgement cost him dearly as the delivery he left jagged back enough to clip the bails . From a relatively comfortable 118 for one , India were reduced to 123 for four in a space of three overs . First innings centurion Ajinkya Rahane then got a howler from umpire Bruce Oxenford as a rising delivery from Stuart Broad hit his arm-guard before lobbing up as Matt Prior ran from his position to dive forward and complete a catch . Shikhar Dhawan ( 31 ) again got a start but failed to convert it into a big score leaving his place in the playing XI for the third Test under scanner . Vijay and Dhawan batted on an eased out pitch as they wiped out the deficit by the seventh over . Dhawan hit four boundaries but a flashy shot off Ben Stokes brought about his downfall with Joe Root taking the catch at point . Vijay in company of Pujara , however denied the bowlers any openings , looking to bat patiently for long in this third innings of the game , and brought up the 50-run mark in the 18th over. Plunkett and Moeen Ali were the other bowlers used in the session . Earlier , Bhuvneshwar 's second successive five-for figures helped him get his name on the prestigious Lord 's 'Honours Board ' after his teammate Ajinkya Rahane got his name up there on the first day . The UP seamer 's figures were second best by an Indian after Amar Singh 's 6/35 at the hallowed ground back in 1936 . Ravindra Jadeja ( 2-46 ) , Moahmmad Shami ( 1-58 ) and Murali Vijay ( 1-12 ) were the other wicket-takers for India in this innings . On a pitch where Bhuvneshwar troubled the batsmen with his moving deliveries , his senior partner Ishant Sharma went wicketless after bowling 24 overs. While a few deliveries did beat the bat , the lanky seamer was guilty of not making the batsmen play on a quite a few occasions . The morning began with England still adrift by 76 runs and only 4 wickets remaining . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
