Virat Kohli can surpass Sachin Tendulkar : Kapil Dev The author has posted comments on this article Tushar Dutt , TNN | Mar 26 , 2014 , 02.07AM IST Share on Linkedin " Virat has so far shown that he has more ability and talent than anybody else and if he can play till 32 or 34 with same fitness and without injuries , he will come to a point where he may overtake even Vivian Richards and Sachin Tendulkar , " said Kapil Dev. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 KUALA LUMPUR : Virat Kohli can be better than Sachin Tendulkar and break many records , said former India skipper Kapil Dev . However , in the same breath , Kapil said that the Delhi dasher was not equipped yet to take charge from MS Dhoni as captain . Kapil is one of the brand ambassadors of the Laureus World Sports Awards , which are scheduled to be held in the Malaysian capital on Wednesday . " I do n't compare , there can not be a second Don Bradman , and there can not be another Sachin Tendulkar. But yes , Kohli has got amazing talent , it 's huge for a 24-year-old , and maybe , he can be better than Tendulkar. The next generation has to be better than the previous one , " Kapil said when asked if Virat can surpass Tendulkar 's records . " Virat has so far shown that he has more ability and talent than anybody else and if he can play till 32 or 34 with same fitness and without injuries , he will come to a point where he may overtake even Vivian Richards and Sachin Tendulkar. " But when asked if Virat is ready to replace Dhoni to lead India , he said , " No. " " The only thing is when you have such a senior captain then it will be always confusion in the team if you make Virat captain and Dhoni playing under him. It wo n't be fair for the team. But when Dhoni is not there , Virat should get a chance. Why push him so early , when the time will come , he ( Virat ) will get his chance. Till the time , he will become mature a player , " he said . About another Delhi batsman Virender Sehwag and his comeback , the World Cup winner said , " Nobody else can score runs for him. I think he is the most attractive and entertaining batsman we have seen in the last 20 years. I will go miles to watch him , when he is playing well. But to be back in the side , he will have to get a lot of runs , " said Kapil . India will tour England in June this year and will play a five-Test series there for the first time since 1959. Kapil said Indian players have got the potential but is not sure how effective they will be in the English conditions . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
