Virat Kohli looks to land the first punch The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 8 , 2014 , 11.11AM IST India 's batting spearhead is keen to deliver on maiden Test tour of England. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NOTTINGHAM : There is so much history surrounding Test cricket in England that it is difficult for those with complete disregard for it to ignore it . It is hardly Virat Kohli 's problem that India last featured in a five-Test series in 2002 , when they toured the West Indies. That was the year when Brazil won the World Cup a record fifth time and Australian Lleyton Hewitt annexed the Wimbledon crown . Twelve years down the line , Brazil are chasing a sixth WC title , while Team India , under MS Dhoni , are looking to exorcise the ghosts of 2011 when they were whitewashed 4-0 on their last tour of England . On his first big tour of England , Kohli is expected to lead India 's batting charge against an England attack that , despite missing the quality of off-spinner Graeme Swann , still has enough depth to worry the visiting side . Kohli was cautious in his approach while fielding questions from the media at the Trent Bridge on Monday , where he and his team had a long and rigorous training session . " It is important to do well in the opening Test because it could well set the tone for the series. There will be enough opportunities to bounce back in the course of a five-match series , but it is always a good feeling for a team to land its opening punch , " Kohli said . Widely regarded as the most talented young batsman to emerge on the scene after Sachin Tendulkar , Kohli is known to set short-term goals and is focused to achieve them . Asked whether he had set himself any targets , Kohli shrugged. " It 's my maiden tour of England and I will be playing my first Test at Lord 's. Having heard so much about the conditions and the challenges here from our seniors , we are looking forward to it , " said Kohli , who has made the No. 4 spot in the batting order his own following the retirement of Tendulkar last year . " I desperately wanted to do well on my maiden series in Australia , South Africa and New Zealand , and having tasted varying degrees of success against these top sides , I am focused on doing well in England , " Kohli added . The conditions here will test India 's young and exciting talented crop of players that coach Duncan Fletcher has been raving about. The brown well-baked pitch on offer here is quite in contrast to the lush green outfield. The expert opinion is that it will have enough moisture to aid lateral movement at least on the first couple of days before the surface flattens out to become the batsmen 's ally . Commercial compulsions of a high-profile series between two of the world 's best teams , both of whom were No 1 not too long ago , forbid the preparation of bowler-friendly pitches lest matches get over inside three or four days. But the curator seems to have left enough grass to make India see red . So much so that the talk emanating from the Indian camp pertains to playing five front-line bowlers with all-rounder Stuart Binny taking the fourth seamer 's role at the expense of a middle-order batsman . With experienced opener Gautam Gambhir and Rohit Sharma banished to the 'outer ' net where they knocked against throw-downs , and off-spinner R Ashwin playing more football than cricket , the indications were pretty clear . All-rounder Ravindra Jadeja is likely to play as the sole spinner , much like he had done in New Zealand and the Indian team management is ready to gamble by including Binny , whose ability to swing the ball and bat capably down the order seems to have convinced Dhoni that if a chance has to be taken , it is best taken at the beginning of the series. Binny would team up with Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Mohammad Shami and Ishant Sharma to exploit the conditions here . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
