We must capitalise on 50-50 situations : Dhoni The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Jun 22 , 2014 , 07.45AM IST The 'real ' Dhoni would be on show in England. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : He was reminded of the 'ghosts ' of the past repeatedly , but true to his 'Captain Cool ' billing , MS Dhoni remained calm and composed at a press meet hours before the Indian team 's departure for the gruelling five-Test tour of England , on Saturday . Sporting a 'fresh ' look thanks to a break after the IPL , the skipper of the Indian team , whose side suffered a humiliating 4-0 mauling three years ago in the 'Old Blighty ' , exuded confidence ahead of a trip that may have a significant bearing on his future as Test captain , considering the side 's consistent failure to win outside the sub-continent under him . While the scars of the 'horrendous ' England tour in 2011 remain , Dhoni 's optimism stems from the fact that many of this youthful Indian team would n't carry baggages of that reversal , since they were n't part of the side back then. His confidence has also been enhanced by how many of his 'boys ' have performed on recent overseas tours , though India have remained winless on recent tours abroad . The crucial thing , he feels , will be his team 's ability to close out the game when in sight of a winning position. The first Test will be held in Trent Bridge from July 9 . " The 2011 series in England and ( then ) Australia were very disappointing for us , but when we went to South Africa and New Zealand , we were not really able to close the games. It was a good effort by our bowlers but we were denied by some fantastic batting from opposition. When we come to 50-50 situations , we should capitalise on that , " he stressed . Even coach Duncan Fletcher , who has often been under fire from critics considering his poor record with the team overseas , expects this side to do better . " It was disappointing to lose to England and Australia , but this is a relatively young side with an added advantage that it does n't carry any baggage. They have played some good cricket in South Africa and Australia. Potentially , it is a good side , " Fletcher said . The good part is , the captain , with question marks still hanging around his neck about his ability to come good as a match-winning batsman on foreign shores , is willing to back his natural , attacking game , which means the 'real ' Dhoni would be on show in England . " As far as my batting is concerned , I need to be far more aggressive. When I am aggressive , I am far better than when I try to play like a proper batsman. I intend to go for my shots from the first ball. I have to back my instincts. It is very important to back my strength , and not think too much about the situation , " he said . With India 's 18-member squad departing on the wee hours of Sunday , Dhoni was happy that the side would arrive in England much in advance. A few games against county sides may just help his team get acclimatised to the conditions well in time before the Test series . " It 's good we are going early so that we can get into the groove. It 's a long series and we are n't used to be playing a five-Test series. We have got enough time to prepare , " he said . Recalling the drubbing in England the last time around , Dhoni said : " During the 2011 England , we had eight-nine injuries. It put lot of pressure on us. It did n't help that we did n't have effective part-time bowlers with us then. It was a difficult period for us. " In the context of the injury-ravaged tour last time , Dhoni was happy that his squad had plenty of reserves to fall back upon this time . " It looks like a big squad , but it is needed considering the duration of the tour. It increases the bench strength and you can replace injured players. It also helps in having a quality practice session , when the main bowlers take some time off , " he said . Fletcher pointed out that England would badly miss a class batsman like Kevin Pietersen . " They are also in a rebuilding phase and they wo n't have Pietersen which will be a huge blow for them. It will make the tour quite interesting. Our focus will be to get Cook and Bell out quickly. Their bowling side is still experienced with Anderson and Broad. We have to go there and adapt to the conditions fast , " the coach said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
