West Indies set to axe Sammy as Test skipper : Report The author has posted comments on this article PTI | May 9 , 2014 , 06.38PM IST Darren Sammy , who was appointed captain in 2010 , was relieved of his one-day duties in 2013 and was replaced by all-rounder Dwayne Bravo. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 PORT OF SPAIN : West Indies all-rounder Darren Sammy is set to get the axe from Test captaincy and Denesh Ramdin is likely to take his place in the upcoming New Zealand series , according to a report . Just when Sammy is busy playing for Sunrisers Hyderabad in IPL 7 , the 'Trinidad Guardian ' reported that wicketkeeper batsman Ramdin has already received the nod from the Caribbean selectors though the final call will be taken by the West Indian Cricket Board ( WICB ) directors later . " Denesh received a call from chairman of the selection panel Clyde Butts who asked him whether or not he was interested in leading the regional team in Test cricket , " the newspaper quoted a source as saying . " Denesh indicated that he was willing to take on the challenge and this message was passed on to the WICB for ratification. By the end of the teleconference , the region would know who will be at the helm for the New Zealand series. " Sammy , who was appointed captain in 2010 , was relieved of his one-day duties in 2013 and was replaced by all-rounder Dwayne Bravo . He has continued to lead the Test and Twenty20 sides but disastrous results on the Test tours of India and New Zealand last year raised doubts over his leadership abilities and his individual failure as an all-rounder has also not helped his case . Meanwhile former West Indies manager Omar Khan is throwing his support behind Ramdin saying that he will make a good captain. " Denesh is a very good tactician and a student of the game. This to me is a plus in any leader. He also has great team building capacity and this sure to work for him at this time . " Ramdin has been around for quite a while in regional cricket , he has played with the current group all his career and has enjoyed good relations with them , so I think he will be good as captain , " said Khan . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
