We 've some unfinished business : George Bailey The author has posted comments on this article Hindol Basu , TNN | Sep 16 , 2014 , 02.30PM IST Bailey exuded confidence that his team can repeat an IPL-like performance and lift the CLT20 trophy. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHANDIGARH : After a stupendous IPL this season , where they reached the finals of the tournament , Kings XI Punjab are looking to go a step further in the upcoming Champions League T20 tournament . Skipper George Bailey , on Monday , exuded confidence that his team can repeat an IPL-like performance and lift the CLT20 trophy . " It was a good IPL for us , but it was n't the IPL that we wanted ( not winning the title ) . We have some unfinished business and going into the CLT20 we would like to lift the trophy , not just finish runners-up , " Bailey said . " It is a new start for us. We have taken the good things out of IPL , what we learnt as a team , how much we grew as a team. But I think it 's important to focus ahead , " the Kings XI skipper added . In the IPL , Glenn Maxwell and David Miller ( also known as the M&M combination ) took the tournament by storm and instilled a fear amongst opposition bowlers . Similarly , Virender Sehwag , after a slow start to the IPL , came into his own in the playoffs against Chennai Super Kings , hitting a match-winning century . According to the KXIP captain , the form of these three batsmen will once again prove to be crucial for their team 's chances in the CLT20 . " Viru , Maxi and Miller are in top-notch form. All of them are hitting the cricket ball with the same intent , which is to send it out of the park. Maxi and Miller have shown in international cricket that their form is pretty good. We believe in playing aggressive cricket right from the start of an innings to the end of it and these three play a crucial role in achieving our targets. They give our bowling attack defendable totals , " Bailey told TOI after a practice match held at the Sector 16 cricket stadium here . Johnson doubtful However , the Kings XI team management has a cause for huge concern. Quick bowler Mitchell Johnson , who is currently nursing an injury , is yet to get a clearance from Cricket Australia for the CLT20 . Talking about the Australian speedster , Kings XI coach Sanjay Bangar said , " As of now , we are still waiting for clearance from Cricket Australia. We can not really take a call as of now as we are still waiting for his clearance. " " Whether he is available or not , we still have a group of individuals who are capable of executing the role that has been given to them. It will be good if he is available , but we are ready to cope with the eventuality of his non-availability , " Bangar added . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
