Where India lost the plot against England The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Aug 18 , 2014 , 08.59AM IST Share on Linkedin India 's captain and wicketkeeper Mahendra Singh Dhoni and Varun Aaron watch the presentation of the trophy to England after they win the Test match and series , on the third day of the fifth Test at The Oval in London. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 When MS Dhoni & Co. vanquished England at Lord 's last month to take a 1-0 lead in the series , no one would have imagined that the next three Tests would end up being a nightmare for the visitors who went down without a fight. Where did India get it wrong ? TOI takes a look.. . POOR TECHNIQUE The Indian top order appeared like sitting ducks against James Anderson and Stuart Broad due to faulty technique. The news coming out from England is that coach Duncan Fletcher had asked the young batsmen to go for a more opened stance rather than the conventional side-on stance to negotiate the extra speed and swing generated by the English bowlers. This , apparently , left the Indian batsmen confused and resulted in a debacle of colossal proportion . SHODDY SLIP CATCHING The Indian slippers dropped more than they caught and they were left paying through their nose. Ravindra Jadeja grassing out of touch Alaistar Cook off Pankaj Singh at third slip in Southampton , was perhaps when the series turned on its head. Cook survived , and the rest , is history. The bowlers kept on throwing their hands in despair as the visitors ' butterfingered slip fielders kept spilling catches at key moments. In dropping almost a dozen catches , India gave away almost 500 extra runs , which made a huge difference . CONFUSED APPROACH AGAINST MOEEN ALI After Graeme Swann 's retirement , England were supposed to struggle in the spin department. However , The Indians ensured that their hosts forgot Swann in a hurry. They surrendered 19 wickets @ 23.00 to the part-time spin of Moeen Ali which buried the myth that Indian batsmen are the best players of spin in world cricket. The batsmen could n't find the right balance between attacking or defending Ali and the confused approach saw the all-rounder pick more wickets in the series than pacer Stuart Broad . CAPTAIN COOL OR CLUELESS ? While MS Dhoni the batsman was at his best in the series , the same ca n't be said about Dhoni the captain and 'keeper. MSD 's follies began at Southampton , where his rant against the ICC for letting off Anderson in his spat with Jadeja perhaps took the team 's focus off cricket for a while. His team selection reflected how unsure he was about who his best players were. His field placings lacked imagination and more often than not his bowling changes lacked game sense. His glove work was ordinary too . NO TEAM BONDING Though Dhoni claimed that his side underwent a few team bonding exercises , it was clear that as the defeats kept mounting , the Indian players ' spirits kept flagging , and the team increasingly bore a disjointed look. There was little encouragement for the bowlers from behind the stumps let alone a pat on the back , which works as a real booster at times . When a partnership developed , the body language of the Indian fielders showed that they wanted to be anywhere but on a cricket field . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
