Yuvraj is our greatest match-winner till date : Gambhir The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Apr 9 , 2014 , 12.27AM IST " I do n't think any cricketer has criticised Yuvraj. It is the media which has attacked him and we need to be careful about what we say , " said Gambhir. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Gautam Gambhir played crucial knocks in the finals of two world events that India have won - 2007 World T20 and 2011 World Cup. And in both these events , one man who played a major role in India 's triumph , was Yuvraj Singh . On Tuesday , Gambhir aggressively defended Yuvraj who has been copping flak for his tardy innings in the final of the World T20 last Sunday which India lost to Sri Lanka . " Yuvraj has been the greatest match-winner for India and he still is. Kolkata Knight Riders ( KKR ) went berserk in the auction to get Yuvi but lost to Royal Challengers Bangalore. I maintain that if there was an auction today , I will still go all out to have him in my team , " Gambhir , the KKR captain , said during a promotional event here on Tuesday . Gambhir lashed out at those who singled out Yuvraj for India 's defeat on Sunday. " I do n't think any of the current players think he was the sole reason. The ex-cricketers and media need to be careful while targeting an individual and need to know that 11 players win or lose the match for a team. " Asked about not bidding for Virender Sehwag who has done well opening again with Gambhir for Delhi in the domestic T20 tournament recently , the 32-year-old said , " I do n't make the final strategy for KKR. But we needed a middle-order batsman of Yuvraj 's calibre. " While the notion is that Virat Kohli was left to do too much all by himself in Dhaka , the southpaw said that batsmen at the top of the order always get to do most of the scoring. " There are only 120 balls in a T20 match. Naturally , the ones batting at number 1 , 2 and 3 will get the maximum balls to face. And there is no question of Indian batting over-relying on Virat. " Now that IPL is a week away , Gambhir says he is pleased to have Morne Morkel in his team . " Morne Morkel has been the best fast bowler I have ever faced. I have faced the Dale Steyns and the Brett Lees but he is the toughest to face among all of them. With Morne 's pace and Sunil Narine in the ranks , we should do well. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
