Australia bag hat-trick of Women 's World T20 titles The author has posted comments on this article Nitin Naik , TNN | Apr 6 , 2014 , 04.47PM IST The Australian women 's cricket team poses at the podium with the trophy after winning the ICC Women 's World Twenty20 final against England at Shere Bangla National Stadium in Dhaka. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 DHAKA : The Australian women 's side , led by Meg Lanning , achieved what their male counterparts , led by George Bailey had set out to do. The Southern Stars , as they are popularly called , crushed arch-rivals England to win their third World T20 crown in a row with a clinical six wicket win at the Shere Bangla National Stadium , here , on a muggy Sunday afternoon . Medium-pacer Sarah Coyte was awarded the player of the match for her spell of 3-16 , which included the wickets of England openers Sarah Taylor , lbw for 18 and skipper Charlotte Edwards for 13 as Edwards tried to break the shackles. She came in the second spell to castle Tasmin Beaumont . England were strangled and could not hit a single six throughout the match. In fact , they just could n't hit a six right through the tournament . Edwards admitted later on that the greater physical strength of the Australian players proved to be decisive factor. " It 's something that we need to look at , " she stressed. England have had a great summer where they won the Ashes and Edwards admitted that this win was a disappointing end to a great summer . With the bat , the Australians appeared to be a in a hurry as they slammed four sixes. Skipper Lanning slammed 44 in 30 balls with two sixes and four fours. Her partnership of 60 for the third wicket with all-rounder Elise Perry 31 not out ( 32 balls , 3x4 , 1x6 ) did the business for the three-time champs. Perry , who has also represented Australia in the football World Cup , hit the winning runs and storm to the dug out as the players ran to the pitch to sing the team anthem . Lanning , the leader of a young team stressed that despite the team being young in age , the players are all experienced. " The bowlers won it for us. And while batting , even though we were chasing a small target , we wanted to be positive. " About being stronger physically than her English counterparts , Manning said , " We do train a lot actually. " Coyte , 23 , who has a tattoo on her left arm in Arabic which reads , " God gives the greatest strength to its strongest soldiers , " says playing cricket with her brothers , Scott ( 29 ) and twin Adam , in Camden , New South Wales , toughened her up. " To get the wickets of Taylor and Edwards who are world class so early was great. I 've been working on discipline and that has worked , " she stressed . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
