Irani Cup : Rest is not enough for Karnataka The author has posted comments on this article Vedam Jaishankar , TNN | Mar 21 , 2015 , 12.32PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 BENGALURU : A disparate group of individuals do not a team make. This point was driven home forcefully by Karnataka when they exposed the fragility of the Rest of India team and trounced them by a humiliating margin of 246 runs at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium on Friday . In the process , the holders retained the Irani Cup and , significantly , notched up their second successive treble - Vijay Hazare Trophy , Ranji Trophy and Irani Cup - in consecutive years. " We were disappointed when we were bowled out for 244 in the first innings and were hurting further after conceding the lead. But I knew our team had many match winners. It was a just a case of one or two of them coming good at the right time , " said a triumphant skipper Vinay Kumar at the end of the match . On this occasion , it was Manish Pandey 's turn to step up and repose the confidence his skipper had in the team. " When he got hit on the elbow while batting last evening , I told him to just hang in there and let Karun Nair do all the scoring. He stuck to the plan and today he opened out brilliantly , " Vinay acknowledged . Rest of India 's skipper Manoj Tiwary too praised Pandey 's aggressive batsmanship as the exciting stroke maker hammered the stuffing out of an errant Varun Aaron this morning to race to a splendid century that earned him the man of the match award . Actually Pandey is known for his uncanny habit of coming good in big matches. This morning he was batting sedately until a wayward Aaron needled him by unnecessarily peppering him with short-pitched deliveries. With just the tail as support , Pandey had no option but to throw his bat at the ball and the shortpitched deliveries from Aaron served as fodder . He slammed him for 22 runs in that 26th over , inclusive of two huge sixes and two fours , and instantly went from first gear to sixth ! It was obvious that Aaron 's temperament had let him down at a crucial stage , particularly as the bowler at the other end , Shardul Thakur , was operating with plenty of discipline and keeping it tight. But Aaron 's prodigal ways undid Thakur 's hard work. The Mumbai paceman , though , was richly rewarded when he cleaned up the last four wickets and came away with a rich bag of five for 86 . Pandey who slashed , cut and pulled ferociously , remained unbeaten on 123 ( 287m , 164 , 12x4 , 3x6 ) . His batting today came as a sharp contrast to the dour stonewalling tactics of the third day and resulted in completely disheartening the rivals . As if on cue , Karnataka paceman Abhimany Mithun cranked up good pace and in his opening over sent back opener Unmukt Chand ( 1 ) and new batsman Paras Dogra ( 0 ) . In his next over he dismissed Naman Ojha ( 0 ) to effectively break the back of the Rest innings and ensured that his team would enjoy its Ugadi a festival at home , rather than on the cricket field. Mithun 's fiery opening spell had Rest reeling at 8 for 3 and after that it was a matter of time before Karnataka added another piece of silverware to their trophy cupboard . Kedar Jadav ( 56 ) once again top scored for his team , despite being sent in to bat at number six. Rest were all out for 156 . Brief scores : Karnataka 244 & 422 ( Pandey 123 * , Samarth 81 , Nair 80 , Thakur 5-86 ) beat Rest of India 264 & 156 ( Jadhav 56 , Shreyas 439 , Mithun 3-40 ) by 246 runs . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
