10-team World Cup is a backward step : Sachin Tendulkar The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 4 , 2015 , 04.58PM IST Sachin Tendulkar met Brian Lara in Sydney on Tuesday. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Calling the ICC 's decision to reduce the number of teams in the 2019 World Cup " a backward step " , cricket icon Sachin Tendulkar said such a move is unfair to the Associate nations . Full Coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 While the ICC wants to curtail the number of teams participating from 14 to 10 , Tendulkar , an ambassador for the World Cup , told an audience at an exclusive dinner here that the governing body should instead be exploring ways to expand the next tournament to as many as 25 teams . " I found out the next World Cup would only be ten teams. Which is slightly disappointing because as a cricketer I want the game to be globalised as much as possible and , according to me , this is a backwards step , " Tendulkar was quoted as saying . The batting great felt Test nations should regularly play their 'A ' sides against Associates to provide a " fair platform " for smaller cricketing countries . " We 've got to find ways of encouraging the lesser teams. " Tendulkar was not on the same page as ICC chief executive David Richardson , who has defended the planned reduction . " The World Cup itself , the premium event , without exception should be played between teams that are evenly matched and competitive. " " The lesser teams have , in each and every World Cup , they always surprise top teams. And they can do it on a consistent basis only if they 're given a fair platform to express their talent . " Right now , they get up after four years on the cricket world 's biggest platform and they 're expected to play and compete with the likes of Australia , South Africa , India , New Zealand , West Indies , Sri Lanka , so many top sides. It 's unfair to them. " Since the 2011 World Cup , Ireland have played only 11 ODIs against Full Member nations and their captain William Porterfield has been joined by his Scotland counterpart - Preston Mommsen - as well as a host of players and officials from both Associate and Full Member sides , in calling for a " level playing field " . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
