Associates have justified World Cup spot , says Irish skipper The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 14 , 2015 , 01.39PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Even if Ireland fail to make the quarterfinals of the cricket World Cup they and the other associate members have shown enough promise to warrant inclusion in future tournaments , skipper William Porterfield said on Saturday . The Irish , the only one of the four associates to beat a test playing nation at the 11th edition with wins over West Indies and Zimbabwe , can make the last eight by beating Pakistan in their Pool B finale in Adelaide on Sunday . Even if they lose , a first victory for their associate colleagues United Arab Emirates over West Indies would send the Irish through . But with the International Cricket Council controversially cutting the number of teams from 14 to 10 for the 2019 tournament , defeat for both UAE and Ireland on Sunday would likely mean a long wait for another World Cup chance . Ireland have three wins from five games here , but UAE , Afghanistan and Scotland have lost 15 of 16 matches to offer some justification to the ICC 's decision . Porterfield , though , felt those losses did not paint the whole picture . " I think all teams in the competition have shown enough to justify a change in 2019 , " the 30-year-old , who was part of the Irish team that beat Pakistan at the 2007 World Cup , told reporters . " Afghanistan could have gone across the line against Sri Lanka ... which would have been great for them to get that win . " But I do n't think it should matter. We 've shown enough regardless come tomorrow of where we 're at and where the next qualifiers are at. " Ireland and Afghanistan have the best shot of the four to make the 2019 World Cup after the ICC added the duo to the rankings-based qualification system along with the 10 full test playing nations . Hosts England and the top seven sides as of September 2017 will qualify for the next World Cup , with another two coming from another qualifier for the bottom four and six other associate sides . But the chances of success for Ireland and Afghanistan will depend on the amount of fixtures they will be able to play to help their ranking . And that is a concern for Porterfield . " We 've played nine against the top 10 in the last four years , and I 'm sure that 's a lot more maybe by Afghanistan. UAE and Scotland would n't have played that many , " the Northern Irishman said . " So accumulative among the four countries , we 've probably played as many in four years as a lot of teams play in one year , if not less . " So in terms of coming into this competition , I think the qualifiers have prepared themselves very well considering the preparation over the four years. I think to be able to do that with that little preparation is great. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
