Beating West Indies was no upset , says Porterfield The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 16 , 2015 , 01.15PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NELSON ( New Zealand ) : Ireland captain William Porterfield demanded his side be treated with respect after their four-wicket World Cup win over the West Indies on Monday , denying the result was an upset and taking aim at cricket 's two-tier system . Elated at claiming yet another scalp from among cricket 's elite nations , Porterfield said he believed Ireland were good enough to be treated as equals . After restricting the West Indies to 304 in their 50 overs at Saxon Oval in Nelson , Ireland chased down the target with a comfortable 25 balls to spare as they finished on 307 for six . The 12th-ranked Ireland are considered associate or junior members of the International Cricket Council ( ICC ) , while the West Indies , a Test-playing side , are among the top 10 teams designated full members . In theory , the full members should dominate 'minnows ' such as Ireland , but Porterfield said it was no surprise to him they coasted home against the the West Indies . " I do n't see it as an upset , " he said. " We prepared to come into this game to win , we 're going to prepare to go into the UAE ( United Arab Emirates ) game to win , South Africa after that and so on. " Victory over the West Indies put Ireland in a good position to qualify for the quarter-finals from Pool B . South Africa , India and Pakistan are the senior teams in the pool and Ireland 's progress could be decided on the outcome of their game against Zimbabwe , another full member of the ICC . " The term an upset , anything from minnows to associate , I do n't see why a team has to be an associate or a team has to be a full member , " Porterfield said . " Sure you 're ranked one to whatever but It 's not like that in any other sport and I do n't see why it has to be like that in ours. " Ireland 's top-order all scored freely against the West Indies with Paul Stirling making 92 , Ed Joyce 84 and Niall O'Brien an unbeaten 79 . Ireland have earned a reputation as giantkillers at World Cups after beating England in 2011 and Pakistan four years before that , but have seldom been given opportunities to develop in between their appearances at the showpiece tournament . In the four years since the last World Cup , Ireland have only played nine matches against full members while the West Indies have played 21 in the past year alone . Porterfield believed he side would only get better as the tournament progressed . " It was the intent we played with when we took the attack back to the West Indies ( that was pleasing ) , " he said . " They came at us pretty aggressively as well , and the way the lads came out and kept continuing the scoring was great and we knew there was more in the tank. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
