Bigger battles ahead , says Dhoni The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 16 , 2015 , 10.35AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : For the first time on the tour of Australia - since November 2014 - India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni had a smile on his face while talking to the media . And why not ? His side had just put it across Pakistan for the sixth time in the World Cup , without a reverse against its name. But more than that , it was the ideal start Team India were looking for in their title defence of the World Cup - barring the practice game against Afghanistan last week , India had gone winless on the entire tour. On Sunday , in the clash that promised so much , India hardly put a step wrong . It was a comprehensive win which had the Indian fans jumping deliriously and the Pakistani fans wondering if their team will ever be able to end the jinx of losing to their arch-rivals in the World Cup.Dhoni could n't stop smiling. " It was a fantastic game for us as far as the bowling , batting and the fielding is concerned , " he said , but later added that there were still quite a few grey areas in which the team needed to improve for their upcoming challenges . " Yes , we have defeated Pakistan. But there are bigger battles and tougher teams ahead of us. We need to improve in certain areas , like keeping the bowling tight in the first 10 overs and ensuring that there are n't too many lapses while fielding , " he said . The Indian skipper also praised the effort of the batsmen , especially the way Virat Kohli and Shikhar Dhawan laid the platform. " I felt after we lost Rohit ( Sharma ) , the partnership of Virat and Shikhar was really crucial because the ball was doing a bit . " If you see , the Pakistan team 's strength is their fast bowling and I felt they bowled well. However , Virat and Shikhar tackled their bowlers well and then when they got set , they started to bat fluently. I was confident that the two would return to form sooner than later , " he said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
