Excluding Pollard , Bravo a self-inflicted blow : Lara The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Feb 18 , 2015 , 01.32PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : West Indies batting legend Brian Lara has described as " a self-inflicted blow " , the decision by the Clive Lloyd-led selection panel to exclude Kieron Pollard and Dwayne Bravo from the regional side for the ongoing World Cup . The former West Indies captain said he is confused by the decision to leave Pollard and Bravo out of the side still struggling to reclaim its title as world beaters , CMC reported Tuesday . Lara 's opinions are contained in an article he wrote for the Trinidad Guardian newspaper just before the West Indies crashed to a four wicket defeat at the hands of minnows Ireland in their world cup opener Monday . " I believe we have shot ourselves in the foot and had the people who selected our team seen the World Cup for the prestigious tournament it is , both Kieron Pollard and Dwayne Bravo would have been in Australia , New Zealand , " wrote Lara . " It is hard to understand the reasons why they are absent. It 's a self-inflicted blow , for sure. " Bravo was captain of the West Indies side that pulled out of a tour of India last October because of a pay dispute between the players ' union and the West Indies Cricket Board ( WICB ) . But Lloyd , who criticised the abandonment at the time , insisted that Bravo had not been overlooked for the World Cup because of his role in the walkout . However the chairman of selectors , who led the West Indies to World Cup triumph in 1975 and 1979 , told reporters that the time had come to exclude Bravo and Pollard on the basis of underperformance . " Statistics do not always tell the whole story and simply put , there are no sensible reasons why both players are not there. In fact , the reasons advanced for their omissions are ridiculous , " Lara wrote . " Pollard 's mere presence is enough to put fear in the hearts of the opposition , and his attitude and confidence is such that it lifts the members of his own team. " Pollard and Bravo are fourth and fifth on the list of highest run-scorers for the West Indies since the 2011 World Cup . " Statistics can not put a value on that , or the indomitable camaraderie and spirit which he and Bravo deliver , " insisted Lara . The Caribbean side plays Pakistan in Christchurch Saturday in their second match of the Pool B of the World Cup . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
