India can '99 percent ' win World Cup : Madan Lal The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Mar 9 , 2015 , 03.27PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 GREATER NOIDA : One of the 1983 World Cup-winning heroes , Madan Lal is mightily impressed with the current Indian cricket team and believes that they can " 99 percent " retain the prestigious title . " I must say that India is playing very good cricket at the moment. The way they are playing is the best I have seen in a long time , " the former bowling all-rounder said here on Monday . " India can 99 percent win this World Cup. If one day goes bad , that is another thing and if they do n't win , then it will be due to their own mistakes. But hats off to them for how they have played so far. " India have started their World Cup campaign on a brilliant note by defeating Pakistan , South Africa , the United Arab Emirates and the West Indies on the trot to qualify for the quarterfinals. In the process , they won their eighth match in a row in World Cups which equals their previous longest Cup streak , established in 2003 . " The team has done well in all the departments -- bowling , batting and fielding. The turnaround that they made following their tour of Australia is remarkable , " added Lal , who inaugurated his new cricket academy at Gaur City here on Monday . Though the first three victories were comprehensive , India struggled to a four-wicket win over the Windies in their last match at Perth on Friday. However , the 63-year-old , who played for India from 1974 to 1987 , played down the issue . " The West Indies match was very important. I do n't think they played poorly. These kind of things keep happening in sports. It was a tight match and a very good win. Also , you must not discount the WACA wicket which is pretty tricky , " said Lal , who is well remembered for his spell of three quick wickets that broke the back of the West Indies batting in the 1983 final . " It was important that ( Mahendra Singh ) Dhoni spent some time out in the middle and got some runs under his belt. It is a plus point and it will also boost his confidence. The team now has 6-7 players who can win India a match on their own. " Asked to comment on the recent controversy where vice-captain Virat Kohli was involved in an ugly spat with a journalist of a leading national daily , Lal said the top order batsman should have controlled himself . " Kohli did not do the correct thing and the incident should not have happened. He should keep his emotions under control. He is a young player and made a mistake. But I am sure he learned from this incident and is unlikely to do such a thing in future , " concluded the former right-arm pacer . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
