World Cup 2015 : We were stuck in second gear , says de Villiers The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 7 , 2015 , 05.00PM IST AB de Villiers fought a lone hand in South Africa 's 202 with a brilliant 58-ball 77 including five sixes and seven boundaries. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : South Africa captain AB de Villiers took responsibility for the shock 29-run ICC World Cup 2015 loss to Pakistan on Saturday , blasting his team for being stuck in " second or third gear " . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Pakistan pulled off a hard-fought triumph under the Duckworth-Lewis method in a match shortened to 47-overs-a-side at Auckland 's Eden Park . Pakistan 's 222 in 46.4 overs , interrupted by two delays for rain , was boosted by 56 from skipper Misbah-ul-Haq while recalled opener Sarfraz Ahmed chipped in with a brisk 49 . De Villiers fought a lone hand in South Africa 's 202 in 33.3 overs with a brilliant 58-ball 77 including five sixes and seven boundaries . But chasing a revised target of 232 , the Proteas were undone by Pakistan 's trio of left-arm seamers Rahat Ali ( 3/50 ) , Wahab Riaz ( 3/45 ) and Mohammad Irfan ( 3/45 ) who thwarted de Villiers 's hopes of wrapping up a quarter-final place before the last round of pool games next week . Both Pakistan and South Africa now have six points from five matches , behind Pool B leaders India who have a perfect eight from four . " I 'm not blaming anyone. I 'm not saying anyone did n't have the energy. I just did n't feel any electric vibe at the warm-up , " said de Villiers . " That is normally a bit of an alarm bell going off for me. It is my responsibility to try to get the guys going , which I could n't , so maybe I should take responsibility for that . " I just could feel that nothing was really happening at a hundred percent. It was almost like a car that 's stuck in second or third gear , and that 's not going to win you cricket games , especially not under pressure and in big tournaments like this . " So we need to have a chat about what maybe went wrong tonight and try to get to fifth gear again against the UAE , " said De Villiers , of their concluding pool game in Wellington on Thursday . De Villiers described the loss as " disappointing. " " Once again we seemed to not get enough partnerships in pressure situations. We 've done it in the past , but unfortunately tonight we could n't do that , so it 's a very disappointing loss , " he admitted . " I felt that Pakistan wanted it more than us. There 's nothing wrong with the batting. It 's just a matter of urgency and being prepared to fight it out. " . The South African captain was full of admiration for Pakistan 's bowling . " They bowled pretty well tonight. They were geared up and really wanted to win the game. You could see that from a mile away. " South Africa were well set at 67 for before Pakistan took four wickets off 39 balls for the addition of just ten runs to leave them struggling at 102-6 . De Villiers put on 32 with Dale Steyn ( 16 ) for the seventh wicket and another 34 with Kyle Abbott ( 12 ) for the next . But Sohail Khan had de Villiers caught behind by Sarfraz Ahmed for a world record equalling sixth catch -- the most by a keeper in a one-day international . " Every time we lost a wicket it was was a turning point. It was all about us not losing wickets and them picking up wickets , " said the captain . De Villiers said he retained full faith in his team who are still on course for a last-eight place . " I 've got full faith in the ability of the players around me. That 's why they 're all here. I know I ca n't win this World Cup alone. I need my team-mates. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
