World Cup 2015 : Ashwin content playing second fiddle to pace The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 23 , 2015 , 05.35PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Ravichandran Ashwin may not be India 's highest wicket-taker in the World Cup but the lanky off-spinner is not complaining . Fast bowlers Mohammad Shami ( 17 ) and Umesh Yadav ( 14 ) have taken more wickets than Ashwin as holders India , traditional spin powerhouses , have focused their attack on pace . In five of their six group matches , the quick men ensured the longest India had to wait for their first wicket was the fifth over , allowing Ashwin and his fellow spinners the luxury of dominating the middle overs . " As far as the spinner is concerned , when I come in , I 've got that little bit more freedom , " Ashwin told reporters ahead of the semifinal against Australia . In claiming 12 wickets , Ashwin has proved more economical than the pacemen , no mean feat for a spinner in a format in which rules and conditions favour batsmen so heavily . The 28-year-old from Chennai has also relished the challenge of bowling to the best batsmen in the tournament , particularly in the powerplays . " I think the batting powerplay is a very good time to attack because you do n't give a lot of singles and it is pretty much about boundaries and wickets , " he said . " I like to throw myself in the middle and try and see how much of an impact I can make in a game against Chris Gayle or AB de Villiers . " I look to get them out in the middle because once you get them out the game is going to go your way. " Temperament-wise a pace bowler in a spinner 's disguise , Ashwin 's control of his craft has been astounding , something he underlined with three maiden overs in India 's high-pressure tournament opener against arch-rivals Pakistan . Ashwin has controlled his turn , stuck to an off-stump line and varied flight and pace to force batsmen into committing mistakes -- a recipe his team would expect him to repeat on Thursday against Australia . " Ashwin is someone I have always loved to have in my side , " captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni said after the win over Ireland . " I have always pushed him to bowl in the powerplays and difficult situations. He is really confident about his bowling. He understands his bowling well . " The good thing with him is he keeps improving himself. Every time he is part of the series , he sees the challenges and accordingly improves , " Dhoni added . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
