World Cup 2015 : Clarke reveals Test aim after World Cup win The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 29 , 2015 , 08.30PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Australia captain Michael Clarke said his next target after winning the World Cup in his last one-day international on Sunday was to take his team back to the top of the Test rankings . Clarke hit 74 as Australia defeated New Zealand by seven wickets in a one-sided final in front of a record crowd of 93,013 at the Melbourne Cricket Ground . Australia bowled out the Black Caps for 183 and then galloped to victory in the 34th over to win one-day cricket 's showpiece event for the fifth time , with this World Cup triumph their first on home soil . The 33-year-old Clarke , who announced his retirement from the one-day international format on the eve of the final , added 112 runs for the third wicket with his likely successor Steve Smith , who made an unbeaten 56 and struck the winning boundary . Australia are currently second in the International Cricket Council 's Test rankings , six ratings points behind South Africa . But leaving the 50-over format will give Clarke -- whose career has been blighted by back and hamstring problems -- an opportunity to concentrate on the five-day game . " My next task is to try and get Australia back to the number one position in Tests , " he told reporters after Sunday 's match . " We have a busy period ahead with tours of the West Indies and then on to England for the Ashes . " I hope my retirement from one-day cricket will prolong my Test career. I am only 33 and hope I have a few more years left in the game. " Clarke said he had not made up his mind about playing in various Twenty20 leagues around the world due to his Test commitments . " I have not thought about playing in the T20 leagues , " he said. " I just wanted to concentrate on the World Cup. Now that it is over , I will get time to think over it . " But I am very excited about Test cricket. I do n't want to rush to any decisions about other things. " Clarke scored 7,981 runs at an average of more than 44 including eight centuries and a best of 130 in his 245 one-day internationals . He added signing off from the shorter format by winning the World Cup was the ideal way for him to bow out of ODI cricket . " There are no such things as fairytales in sport but this is as close as it gets , " he said . " There was a lot of pressure and expectation playing in front of our own crowds. But the boys soaked up that pressure well. Mentally we were ready for the final. " Clarke praised his bowling unit after the left-arm pace trio of Mitchell Starc , James Faulkner and Mitchell Johnson shared eight wickets on Sunday to set up the emphatic victory . " Our bowlers won us the World Cup , " he said. " There is no doubt that Starc deserved the man of the series award for his 22 wickets. Starc and the whole bowling unit have done a great job . " Our bowling in every single game has been exceptional. " I think being aggressive and going for wickets was a good strategy. If there are wickets in hand , the last 15 overs can be very destructive. So it 's better to take wickets and not just restrict the runs. " Clarke complimented New Zealand , whose unbeaten tournament run of eight consecutive victories ahead of the final included a one-wicket pool-stage win over Australia in Auckland , saying they were worthy finalists . " New Zealand deserve credit for the way they played in the World Cup , " he said. " I wish them good luck for the future. But it was to be our day today. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
