World Cup 2015 : Every team has potential match winners , says Vettori The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 8 , 2015 , 01.22PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NAPIER : New Zealand are paying little attention to their World Cup rivals ' form in the group stage of the tournament as every team that reaches the knockout rounds have potential match winners in the side , spinner Daniel Vettori said on Sunday . Vettori produced a man-of-the-match performance of 4-18 in New Zealand 's six-wicket victory over Afghanistan at McLean Park on Sunday , which gave the co-hosts a 5-0 record in Pool A . India are the only other unbeaten side in the tournament , having won all four of their Pool B matches , while several potential contenders have suffered hiccups . South Africa were beaten by India then crashed to a 29-run loss on the Duckworth/Lewis method to Pakistan , who were abysmal in their first two matches , losing to India and West Indies before sneaking home against Zimbabwe . That victory suggested Misbah ul-Haq 's side may have turned the corner , while Sri Lanka have also looked in more ominous form after losing to New Zealand and then being pushed by Afghanistan . Vettori , who passed the 300-wicket milestone in ODIs on Sunday , said his side were not taking anything for granted as the competition gets down to the business end . " Anyone that we come up against in the quarterfinal is going to be tough opposition , " Vettori said. " All of the teams that eventually make it have got match winners in it . " You ca n't sit back and say a team is in form or has n't played well because you are ( having ) to go into it thinking the team will play their best . " It 's the nature of the way that we look at things. " New Zealand 's batsmen had little trouble in chasing down the 187 needed for victory on Sunday , with Corey Anderson hitting a four in the 37th over to ease his side to the six-wicket win . It was the fourth successive match they had won chasing down small totals and , for some pundits , the lack of time out in the middle for several New Zealand batsmen could be an issue heading into the knockout stages . Martin Guptill ( 57 ) , Ross Taylor ( 24 not out ) and Grant Elliott ( 19 ) all got some time batting on McLean Park , though Vettori said " ticking boxes " was not part of their game plan . " We 're just looking at it as we 're trying to win games , regardless of the situation , " he added . " I think it 's important that we keep thinking that way , because if we get caught up in working through a checklist in what 's right and what 's wrong in trying to win a World Cup it 's not going to work . " It 's just purely about winning games. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
