World Cup 2015 : Left is just right for Starc fan Wasim Akram The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 17 , 2015 , 12.19PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Wasim Akram ca n't wait to see six left-arm seamers in action when Australia and Pakistan clash Friday for a World Cup semifinal spot , but admits Mitchell Starc is his favourite exponent . The Adelaide showdown promises a feast of left-arm pacemen with Australian spearhead Starc the leading wicket-taker in the World Cup with 16 victims in five matches . Feared for his pace and bounce , Mitchell Johnson has taken nine wickets while James Faulkner has three in three games since returning from a side strain on March 4 . Pakistan 's left-armers are led by Wahab Riaz ( 14 wickets ) ably assisted by Rahat Ali ( eight ) and Mohammad Irfan ( seven ) . Pakistan will hope Irfan recovers from a hip injury which forced him to sit out their last game against Ireland on Sunday. He did n't bowl in Tuesday 's net session and awaits a scan on the injury before being assessed for Friday . Left-arm fast bowling legend Wasim , part of the Pakistan team which won the country 's only World Cup title in 1992 , said he is anxiously waiting for the showdown of lefties . " It excites me no end , " Wasim told AFP. " When I used to play there were very few left-armers , it was a sort of novelty but imagine three on each side ? I will be the most excited person at Adelaide Oval. " As many as five left-arm pacemen have played in the same one-day international , the last being in Sharjah last December when Pakistan faced New Zealand . Mitchell McClenaghan and Corey Anderson bowled for the Black Caps while Pakistan had Sohail Tanvir , Irfan and Riaz in their line-up . Wasim said left-arm fast bowling has evolved in the last few years , with Starc his favourite exponent . " To me Starc is the best. He has height and he swings the ball and that is why he is so successful , " said Wasim , of the 25-year-old who took a career best 6-28 in the narrow one-wicket loss to New Zealand in Auckland last month . Wasim praised New Zealand 's Trent Boult who has 15 wickets in six games . " Boult is also very good and has a good attitude towards taking wickets , " said Wasim of the New Zealand paceman . As far as the Pakistan team is concerned , Wasim said Irfan needs to work on his fitness . " Irfan is different , " said Wasim of the 7feet , one inch paceman -- the tallest man to play international cricket . " His body stretches more and needs careful handling. " Riaz has impressed me the way he bowled against Zimbabwe , then South Africa and Ireland , fast and with resolve , " said Wasim . " The only problem he had was with his wrist , which seemed to get locked ( at the point of delivery ) and that 's why he was not bringing the ball in. Now it has improved. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
