World Cup 2015 : No backing down on Black Caps ' fearless style , says McCullum The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 29 , 2015 , 07.18PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Skipper Brendon McCullum is adamant there will be no backing down in the Black Caps ' fearless approach in the wake of their crushing World Cup final defeat to Australia . Australia powered to a seven-wicket defeat of New Zealand before a record 93,013 Melbourne Cricket Ground crowd , winning their fifth World Cup crown with 16.5 overs to spare . McCullum 's Black Caps stormed into their first World Cup on the back of an unbeaten eight-match run playing an aggressive swashbuckling brand of cricket . But the scale of New Zealand 's defeat in the final , including McCullum 's dismissal for a three-ball duck in the opening over , led to questions over whether they should temper their bold playing style , a suggestion the skipper flatly rejected . " No , no , you do n't change your style of play. Look , for us to develop into the team that we want to be in international cricket , we have to play like that , " he told his post-match media conference . " I think there 's an element of fearlessness about how we play , which has been an effect on other teams , as well . " I think if you ask most of the teams in this tournament what they think of how we 've played the game , they would be very respectful of how we 've gone about it . " It 's what gives us our greatest pleasure , as well , and sometimes we 're going to come undone , but for us to compete against the big teams on regular occasions and for us to be able to develop into the team we want to be , we need to keep playing this brand of cricket . " We 'll get better at doing it the more we become accustomed to it , and I guess a stronger depth of players we develop in the same sort of mould of cricket as we have . " So yeah , we 're not going to change. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
