World Cup 2015 : Pacers biggest plus for India , says Danny Morrison The author has posted comments on this article Ruchir Mishra , TNN | Mar 18 , 2015 , 10.41AM IST Morrison feels that noisy crowd at Melbourne will play a huge role. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NAGPUR : Danny Morrison was a well-known exponent of swing bowling in the 1990s but he always looked up to the two Ws ( Wasim Akram and Waqar Younis ) for reverse swing . While outswing was the New Zealand speedster 's potent weapon , he added quite a few tricks to his armoury to become an effective One-day bowler. Although reverse swing is almost absent during this World Cup , Morrison is keenly watching the pace bowlers try different things to make best use of two new balls and the new Powerplay rule . " We looked , studied and followed the two Ws and what they did with the old ball. Things changed in 2012 when the new rules were introduced. Yorkers are under-used because of this. The bowlers these days bowl bouncers , slow bouncers , slower ones , cross-seamed and angle-seamed deliveries to get the ball roughed up quick enough to make the ball reverse a little bit around the 35th over. I am pretty impressed with the Indian pacers. If they watch how Wasim and Waqar bowled - and also Lasith Malinga - they can consistently deliver at the death , " Morrison told TOI on Tuesday . The Indian pacers were the weak link in the Indian lineup , but they turned things around after the tri-series. India are the only team to have bowled out the opposition in every match . " The biggest plus for India is their pacers. You look at Mohammed Shami , who has been the highest wicket-taker since 2014. Mohit Sharma is a surprise weapon for India , particularly on those drop-in wickets which are very good for batting. Umesh Yadav seems to have got his rhythm back. He looks a good athlete with a smooth run-up. The timing in his action through the bowling crease is very good and his wrist position looks perfect. His outswing is back and at that pace , it 's never easy for batsmen. Their combination is going well for India. Then you have Ashwin who is a dangerous wicket-taking bowler because of his height , variations and flight. You would like Jadeja to be in a bit better form but others are chipping in well , " he said . So far , things have gone India 's way but the knockouts are different. Bangladesh wo n't be pushovers and Morrison feels India need to respect their quarterfinal opponents. " Bangladesh have beaten England and pushed New Zealand in Hamilton. But India need to concentrate on their performance. Dhoni and Raina 's ability to finish and Virat 's record while chasing is amazing. They have Shikhar and Rohit who have the ability to set up the game with big scores. So , they have plugged most of the loopholes , " he added . Morrison feels that noisy crowd at Melbourne will play a huge role. " Bangladesh play in noisy crowd too but there will be more Indians than Bangladeshis at MCG. We saw what happened to South Africa. It 's a bit different playing in front of 40,000 people and 90,000. India have that experience. If India bat first and score big , it would be difficult for Bangladesh. They did well against England and New Zealand but while batting first. They struggled against Sri Lanka while chasing , " the 49-year-old said . Morrison feels India can go all away because of the aggressive brand of cricket they are playing. " India surprisingly won in 1983 and lost in 1987 when they were trying to defend the title at home. Here , it 's different. They won it at home and now defending when people probably think they are n't so good in foreign conditions. They have gained momentum but can they do it ? Only time will tell but they have a great chance of doing that , " he said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
