World Cup 2015 : Planned to bowl yorker first up to McCullum , says Starc The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 29 , 2015 , 09.21PM IST McCullum was bowled by Starc in the first over which set the tone for the rest of the match. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Man of the tournament Mitchell Starc said that there was a plan to bowl yorkers to Brendon McCullum first up and he was happy to execute that plan . McCullum was bowled by Starc in the first over which set the tone for the rest of the match . " I think personally it was a bit of a planning game with Craig McDermott about just bowling in pace and yorker to him first up , and I 'm not sure how that first one missed , but lucky the third one hit. There 's a lot of luck involved , but just nice to see that plan come off , " a delighted Starc said at the media conference on Sunday . " I think we 've watched him ( McCullum ) a fair bit through the tournament being pretty destructive. He 's been a key player for them right from the beginning , and he 's been fantastic for the Kiwis to get them off to great starts. I think after that game in New Zealand we knew we had to sort of assess him as he went because he 's very unpredictable , " said the left-arm paceman , who ended the tournament as the highest wicket-taker with 22 scalps alongside New Zealand pacer Trent Boult . Since loads of runs were scored , Starc was happy that ball dominated the bat in the final . " It 's nice to see bat dominate ball every now and again. There 's been some fantastic performances with both. Obviously it 's been a couple of big scores , a couple of double tons. Look , it 's just been fantastic the whole tournament , and I guess from the Australian point of view , I think we 've worked really hard at our bowling . " Not only in the World Cup but leading up to it , and to see it come off , I think every bowler who 's bowled in the tournament , not just the guys who played the final , it 's been fantastic , " he said . On how he managed to get all those wickets ( 22 in all ) at a 3.5 runs per over economy rate , Starc said , " We have all complemented each other throughout the whole tournament. I 'm speaking on behalf of the Australian squad anyway. But yeah , look , it 's been awesome. We 've got guys who do things differently in the 15 , got guys who can swing it , guys who can bowl -- a few guys who can bowl in the 150s. Jimmy ( Faulkner ) comes in and uses variations better than most people. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
