World Cup 2015 : Pressure on Australia not Pakistan , says Sarfraz The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 17 , 2015 , 10.28AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : In-form opener Sarfraz Ahmed believes the pressure of expectation will be on Australia when the co-hosts take on Pakistan in a highly-charged World Cup quarterfinal , vowing an attacking approach from his team . The 27-year-old wicketkeeper/batsman hit his team 's first hundred of the World Cup which helped Pakistan beat Ireland in Sunday 's last Pool B match to earn them a place in the last-eight . Sarfraz said Australia will be under huge pressure on Friday because of their status as title favourites and due to the attention on them playing at home . " I think the pressure is on them so we will try to attack them and play positive cricket , " said Sarfraz on Tuesday . " We have always had tough contests with Australia. Against them in the United Arab Emirates , we beat them in a competitive Test series , " added Sarfraz , of Pakistan 's 2-0 win last October -- their first over the Australians in 20 years . Pakistan are sweating over the fitness of key paceman Mohammad Irfan who did n't bowl in Tuesday 's training session and will have a scan on his hip injury later in the day . Sarfraz admitted the Australian bowling attack -- comprising left-arm pacers led by leading wicket-taker Mitchell Starc -- will be challenging . " We also have three left-arm fast bowlers so we are preparing with their help. I think our preparation against their left armers will be good as we have three days to do that. We know they have a very good bowling attack . " I have played Starc before in the UAE so we will see the footage and prepare well for Friday. The target is to give Pakistan a good start and get a win , " said Sarfraz who played as an opener in the three-match one-day series against Australia last October . He scored 34 , 65 and 32 in a 3-0 defeat but admits the Adelaide Oval conditions will not necessarily just only favour Australia . " The pressure of the different conditions is always there and from their home crowds but I remember that Imran ( Khan , the 1992 World Cup winning captain ) said that the Adelaide pitch is also good for Pakistan. " Sarfraz also admitted that expectations on Pakistan have risen back home after four consecutive wins at the World Cup . " I know the expectations rise after doing well but a quarterfinal brings more pressure so it will be important not to succumb to that pressure , " he added . " I open the innings with ( Ahmed ) Shehzad so the pressure is giving a good start to the team so that the later batsmen capitalise on that start. After scoring that hundred my confidence has also risen and I am feeling well . " My performance in the last two matches was good and it helped the team win but we are not thinking too far ahead ( winning the Cup ) . The boys are working really hard and I will try to keep my form , utilise that and give a good start because a good start will be important. " Sarfraz also scored run-a-ball 49 in the 29-run victory over South Africa in Auckland , the win that helped put Pakistan on course for the quarterfinals . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
