World Cup 2015 : Rahane is more confident now , says Tait The author has posted comments on this article Ruchir Mishra , TNN | Mar 3 , 2015 , 11.10PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Ajinkya Rahane has come of age as a batsman in the last 15 months. Not only has he proved his worth in adverse conditions , the 'peaceful warrior ' is growing in stature with every series. The breathtaking innings against South Africa in the ongoing World Cup demonstrated his class . Rahane 's former Rajasthan Royals teammate Shaun Tait feels his ability to deal with the short ball sets him apart from rest. Tait says Rahane is among the best in the world . " The first time I saw Ajinkya bat I knew straightaway he will be a star. He has a great work ethic , a great personality and temperament. He is very kind-hearted and every time he makes runs , it makes me happy , " Tait , a former Australia pacer , told TOI from Adelaide . " Ajinkya has always played the short ball well. In a team where most can not handle it , Ajinkya was a shining light. Now young Indian batsmen know how to tackle short-pitched stuff. Ajinkya has grown in confidence since his Rajasthan Royals days. He knows he can play well against the best fast bowling attacks , " the 32-year-old said . The former pacer feels Ajinkya 's form will be as important for India as Virat Kohli 's . " They are world class players with great technique , temperament and possess all the shots in the book. It 's tough to bowl to somebody like Virat. I am sure all the teams playing against India will have plans for him. However , when you have class player like him , plans do n't always work , " he said . While India 's batting has always been very strong , it 's the Indian bowling which has improved considerably. " Indian bowling unit is strong. They have not only performed well in the tournament but also have a bright future ahead . " Umesh ( Yadav ) and ( Mohammed ) Shami have pace and accuracy. Australia is not an easy place to come and bowl to. So far , wickets have favoured the batsmen. But Indian bowlers have the pace to make a difference , " Tait said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
