World Cup 2015 : Sri Lanka in great hands , says retiring Sangakkara The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 18 , 2015 , 04.44PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Sri Lanka great Kumar Sangakkara said he was confident about the future of the side after he bowed out of one-day internationals with a World Cup quarterfinal defeat by South Africa . The 37-year-old left-hander top-scored for the Islanders with 45 but it was n't enough as Sri Lanka were dismissed for just 133 on their way to a nine-wicket loss at the Sydney Cricket Ground . Sangakkara , who will continue in Test cricket , had always planned to bring down the curtain on his one-day career after the World Cup . But there was no fairytale finish for either Sangakkara or fellow batsman Mahela Jayawardene , for whom this was a last Sri Lanka match in any format , as the two veterans -- both runners-up at the 2007 and 2011 World Cups -- were denied the chance to play in a third straight final . " I think the team is in great hands. Angelo Mathews has been such an impressive leader right throughout , " said Sangakkara . " I think Tillakaratne Dilshan might be playing a few more seasons for Sri Lanka , and we 've had Lahiru Thirimanne ( who made a fluent 41 on Wednesday ) who 's really made great strides . " Every single time he plays he looks more and more impressive. We 've had a few injuries this tour , but if you look at the players we have , you ca n't but be positive about the future . " I think if you take some of the younger players , if I can compare myself to them at the same age , I think these guys are quite a way ahead of where I was , and that 's quite exciting when you really look at it because that means they 've got so much more left to learn and a lot more to give to Sri Lanka , " Sangakkara , who made his ODI debut in 2000 , said . " I have no fear about the future of Sri Lankan cricket. " Reflecting on Wednesday 's match , he said : " It 's disappointing to lose , especially in a quarterfinal , but to win against a side like South Africa we have to do really well . " We were expecting , as much as anyone , of ourselves. But we were n't good enough today. " Sangakkara 's record-breaking run of four successive ODI hundreds finally came to an end on Wednesday but he bowed out as the World Cup 's current leading run-scorer with 541 in seven innings at an average of over 108 . The wicketkeeper-batsman 's overall ODI figures are outstanding too , with 14,234 runs in 404 matches , including 38 hundreds , at an average of 41.98 , as well as 501 dismissals comprising 402 catches and 99 stumpings . " That 's the way it goes , " said Sangakkara of losing his last ODI. " Personally I 've had a great time playing with these boys. Disappointments are a part of our career , and you just take it on the chin and move on. " Paying tribute to his longstanding team-mate , Sangakkara said : " I think Mahela has been an exceptional player for Sri Lanka.I 'm sure he 's going to be thoroughly disappointed today , but also , sometimes there is a bit of relief , as well , when your career ends. " And Sangakkara said he had no regrets about bowing out now. " The tape holding my fingers together , there 's a lot more holding my body together . " I 'm sure I can play maybe a year or two more , but I feel that the time is now . " I 'm pretty happy with the decision I 've made. I 've tried to give everything when I 've played the game . " But you know , the game goes on. You ca n't hold onto it and people should n't be too sentimental . " At the end of the day , I think a lot better players and greater players have gone , and the game has gone on and there are new players who take the mantle , and in my case it wo n't be any different. " Asked how he would like to be remembered , Sangakkara said : " If anyone can say that they 've enjoyed playing against me and playing with me , I 'll be more than happy. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
