World Cup 2015 : Team India inconsistent like Bollywood stars , says Jeffrey Arthur The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 4 , 2015 , 10.04PM IST MS Dhoni , Virat Kohli and Shikhar Dhawan stand behind the ICC World Cup Trophy before their Pool B match against UAE in Perth. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BENGALURU : Renowned British author and a former MP Jeffrey Archer on Wednesday said the current Indian cricket team puzzles him and compared the Mahendra Singh Dhoni-led side with Bollywood superstars , who according to him are famous for their inconsistencies in giving hit films . Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 " Frankly speaking , I am puzzled by the current Indian team. I think ( Virat ) Kohli is among the best batsman I have ever seen in my life , but I think that they are becoming too much like Bollywood superstars ( who are inconsistent in giving hit films ) . I mean for the last six months they have been playing rubbish. They come to the World Championship and they start playing properly , " he said in an interaction with the audience on the occasion of the launch of his book -- 'Mightier Than the Sword ' -- here . Arthur 's comments came after India witnessed a horrendous tour of Australia preceding the World Cup but returned to form when it mattered most . Having beaten strong teams like Pakistan and South Africa in the ongoing World Cup in Australia and New Zealand , India are all but assured of a place in the quarterfinals . And Arthur said India 's inconsistency is disappointing , but feels the team has the potential to deliver . " So , they are a kind of disappointing. But they can deliver even though they are not consistent and that is the problem , " he said . Arthur , meanwhile , took a dig at T20 cricket , calling it a rubbish format . " I think 20-20 is rubbish. I think VVS Laxman and Rahul Dravid , batting all day against the Australians and beating them on the following day - that is cricket , not this 20-20 rubbish , " he said . Archer has a great fan following in India and has been a frequent visitor. He had visited India last year and in 2013 to promote the fourth and fifth volumes of the " The Clifton Chronicles " . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
