Clinical Kolkata Knight Riders tame Chennai Super Kings Archiman Bhaduri Archiman Bhaduri,TNN | May 21 , 2014 , 10.02 AM IST Uthappa 's 39-ball 67 led Kolkata Knight Riders ' victory charge. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED KOLKATA : Kolkata Knight Riders continued their winning run , taking a step closer to a playoff berth by defeating Chennai Super Kings by eight wickets in their first 'home ' game at the Eden Gardens on Tuesday . Sunrisers Hyderabad 's win over Royal Challengers Bangalore earlier in the day gave KKR a two-point cushion over both their immediate rivals , which they extended to four points to stay ahead in the race for a playoff berth . KKR skipper Gautam Gambhir struck to his winning formula of winning the toss and putting the opposition in as they restricted CSK to 154/4 in their 20 overs . It was once again a strong opening partnership between Gambhir and Robin Uthappa which did half the job for the hosts. However , CSK , in spite of being confirmed a playoff spot on Tuesday , need to look at their fielding . In their last match in Ranchi , they dropped Royal Challenger Bangalore 's AB de Villiers , who took the match away from them , and on Tuesday they dropped in-form Uthappa twice . Uthappa 's 39-ball 67 led KKR 's victory charge and Shakib Al Hasan finished things off with a superb 21-ball 46 . Uthappa was first dropped by Ravichandran Ashwin at first slip off Ben Hilfanhaus , coming in place of David Hussey , in the fourth ball of the innings when the batsman was on six . He again got a life on 24 , when none other than Suresh Raina dropped him at first slip off Mohit Sharma. Even Brendon McCullum was guilty of dropping Manish Pandey later in the innings , making it a forgettable night for Chennai . Although the flow of run dried up after the departure of both openers , their 64-run opening-wicket stand in seven overs set the tone of the KKR innings . CSK bowlers were also guilty of not bowling to their field , which helped KKR batsmen to score freely and reach the victory target in 18 overs . Earlier , KKR made an early inroad when Pat Cummins , who replaced Morne Morkel in the XI , cleaned up red-hot CSK opener Dwayne Smith in the second over of the day. The Australian pacer , who bowled a wicket-maiden , could n't have dreamt of a better start to his IPL 7 campaign . Smith 's partner McCullum , though , made amends by hitting Cummins for two sixes -one over third man and another over cover . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Robin Uthappa,MS Dhoni,Kolkata Knight Riders,Gautam Gambhir,Chennai Super Kings Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
