Sunrisers Hyderabad 's Bhuvneshwar Kumar ( left ) celebrates after taking wicket of Ajinkya Rahane ( unseen ) of Rajasthan Royals during the IPL 7 match in Ahmedabad. ( PTI Photo ) RELATED AHMEDABAD : Bhuvneshwar Kumar led disciplined bowling attack with his four-wicket haul to help Sunrisers Hyderabad beat Rajasthan Royals by 32 runs in IPL match . Chasing a modest target of 135 , Rajasthan were bowled out for 102 in 19.5 overs . Earlier , Rajasthan Royals skipper Shane Watson conjured up a hat-trick as Sunrisers Hyderabad put on a spineless batting show to manage a below par 134 for nine in their Indian Premier League clash on Thursday . It was a pathetic batting display by Hyderabad as more than the Rajasthan bowling , it was poor shot selection of the Hyderabad batsmen that let them down . None of the SRH player , except skipper Shikhar Dhawan ( 33 ) , applied himself as Watson ( 3/13 ) and Rajat Bhatia ( 3/23 ) shared six wickets between them . It was a split hat-trick for Watson as he dismissed Dhawan in the last ball of his first over and then sent back Moises Henriques ( 9 ) and Karn Sharma ( 0 ) when he returned for his second over later in the innings . In his last match also the burly Australian had taken three wickets in one over to trigger a KKR batting collapse . Apart from Dhawan , Irfan Pathan 's a-run-a ball unbeaten 21 helped SRH reach at least a modest total . Dhawan , who had been struggling thus far , seemed to have found his touch back as he hit some sweetly-timed boundaries. His cuts and drives , predominantly on the off-side , reached the boundary ropes in jiffy . However , he could not capitalise on the stupendous start , getting back to dug out in somewhat strange fashion. One from Watson kept slightly low and faint edge carried the ball onto stumps. His 20-ball knock had seven boundaries . In came Lokesh Rahul ( 18 ) and he too began in tremendous fashion , dispatching Dhawal Kulkarni for two boundaries but Aaron Finch ( 9 ) joined his captain in the dug out , thanks to a stunning catch by Ajinkya Rahane off Bhatia . The Australian neither got the power nor the elevation in his shot and Rahane latched on to the chance diving forward . Rahul squandered the good start by playing a reckless shot , giving Bhatia his second wicket. It was left to new-man in David Warner ( 6 ) and Naman Ojha ( 17 ) to provide impetus to the innings but the former did not help the cause of his side by departing early . Leg-spinner Pravin Tambe , star of Rajasthan 's previous match with a hat-trick , foxed the charging Australian left-hander with a turning ball and Sanju Samson had an easy stumping to do . Ojha too left his side in tatters as he was bowled by Bhatia while attempting to work the ball on the on-side. Watson then piled on the SRH misery by completing his hat-trick . http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Sunrisers Hyderabad,Shane Watson,Rajat Bhatia,Rajasthan Royals,IPL 7 Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
