Al-Barkaat - a different school of thought The author has posted comments on this article Dhananjay Roy , TNN | Feb 25 , 2015 , 12.37PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Among the many things school-going children dread in India , breaking window panes while they are out playing , ranks right up there with things like getting hauled up for bunking classes , playing pranks on classmates or seeking help on the sly while struggling during examinations . But here 's a school that does not mind members of its cricket team taking aim at its windows situated about 70 yards away from their nets , and rewards them instead . This strategy sure has paid off handsomely , with Al Barkaat Malik English School ( Kurla ) winning their maiden Harris Shield title a few days ago. In the process , they shattered the dominance of Rizvi Springfield ( Bandra ) who had held the prestigious title for the last six years . " Given their age , it 's not easy for them to hit the ball in the air so far , so the windows are generally safe ! The rewards vary from a T-shirt , a cap , a pen , and things like that. This gesture just motivates the boys , " says Nafees Khan , the chief coach of the team . And encouragement is something these kids require immensely , for a majority of the boys come from extremely humble backgrounds . Considering the fact that the school began operations only about a decade ago , emerging champions in the competition that has thrown up a majority of Mumbai 's cricketing talent for decades is a remarkable feat. " We are grateful to the management that spares no effort in promoting cricket , " says Khan , who is a guard with Central Railways , and is assisted by a couple of other CR colleagues - Pankaj Ojha ( batting coach ) and Ashish Gupta ( bowling coach ) . Al Barkaat first hit the headlines when their team won the Giles Shield Plate Division title in 2012. A year later they emerged the Giles Shield Elite Division champs and also won the Harris Shield Plate title. While giving the school 's trophy cabinet a facelift , these triumphs have left an indelible mark on the players , who otherwise would have struggled to showcase their skills on the pitch . " Playing cricket and doing well for the school has boosted my self confidence , " says Mukund Sardar , 15 , who is a pace bowler and resides in a slum in Govandi 's Tata Nagar. His grandmother , who sells fish at Dockyard road , approached Nawab Malik , a trustee of the school a few years ago and requested him to admit Mukund and his younger brother Rajesh into the school , and help them hone their cricketing skills . And surely these boys did n't disappoint : while Mukund returned with a match-haul of nine wickets in the Harris Shield semifinals , left-arm spinner Rajesh enjoyed a ten-wicket haul in the final . " Earlier we would just loiter around in Govandi. But now , we are pretty popular amongst youngsters. They come up to us every time they see our names in newspapers , " says Mukund who is sporting a mohawk these days. He was part of the Mumbai U-14 side in 2013 when he opened the bowling with Arjun Tendulkar , and harbours hopes of becoming a professional cricketer . Another player who shone in the Harris final was Kesar Singh Thapa , a wicketkeeper batsman who travels to the school from Masjid Bunder where he stays with his parents in a temple premises. He struck an invaluable 87 in a low-scoring game , and is amongst the few players who have indeed managed to shatter one of the window panes. And no one 's complaining ! Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
