American fan catches cricket bug at World Cup The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 21 , 2015 , 11.55AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 WELLINGTON : Greg Conley did n't know much about cricket until he watched the noisy high-profile World Cup game between Pakistan and India in Adelaide last week . The 51-year-old American from Boston has watched eight Summer Olympics ( since Seoul , 1988 ) , and as many Winter Games , but had never before been to a cricket match . So what brought him to Australia and New Zealand for the World Cup ? . Conley , who works in system information at a Boston hospital , said that as there were no other major international sporting events during his holidays , he decided to give cricket a try . " I love doing new things and exploring new games so on my holidays this time I thought what to do ? When I read there is a Cricket World Cup about to start I decided to give it a try , " Conley told AFP outside Wellington 's Westpac Stadium on Friday . " I am enamoured by this sport and want to be as passionate as an Indian fan. They are simply superb with their chanting , colourful attire and unabated following of their team. " On a 27-hour journey , Conley tried to gather knowledge about cricket through two books ( Cricket Tamasha by James Astill and a coaching manual , as well as consulting the Wikipedia website . But little did he realise that he had no chance of getting a match-ticket for the clash between arch-rivals India and Pakistan at the sold-out 47,000 capacity Adelaide Oval . " When I arrived at the Adelaide stadium I found lots and lots of people and there were no tickets , so it was a damp squib and I went to watch the match in a pub , " said Conley , who has also watched eight soccer World Cups beginning in Mexico in 1986 . But not getting a match ticket was n't his only disappointment. " Why I decided to watch the India-Pakistan game was because I read about their rivalry , just like the Brazil-Argentine in soccer , and because I wanted to watch Sachin Tedulkar , who is like our Magic Johnson or Michael Jordan ( in basketball ) , " said Conley , then unaware that the 'Little Master ' had retired . " But when I asked someone in the pub about when Tendulkar will come to bat , he gave me a stare as if I was an unwanted person , " added Conley , who finally attended his first cricket match in Nelson , on New Zealand 's South Island . " It was fantastic to be at Nelson stadium and see Ireland win against the West Indies , " said Conley who , in common with many Bostonians , has Irish ancestry . " I will back India for their fans and Tendulkar , Ireland for being my country of origin and the West Indies as they are the only ones from the Americas ( at the World Cup ) , " he added . Conley , who will fly back on Saturday , will watch the rest of the games in Boston . " It 's now tough to leave but I have to , " said Conley who on Friday was able to claim , unlike many lifelong cricket fans , that he 'd been among the crowd when New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum scored the fastest-ever World Cup fifty . " I will watch the rest of the games on big screens in Boston for the next five weeks. " Cricket officials have long cherished the idea of the game taking off in the United States and Conley said there were grounds for optimism . " There is some cricket in Boston but they mostly like the Twenty20 games as they are more popular and take less time , but I am sure this game has the fire-power to enamour the rest of the world , " said Conley . " My next target will be to tour India , meet the great man Tendulkar and watch the World Twenty20 next year. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
