Asia quartet defy convention at World Cup The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 16 , 2015 , 12.14PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Co-hosts Australia and New Zealand may be the teams to beat , but the striking feature of this World Cup is Asia 's four Test nations defying conventional wisdom to make the quarterfinals . Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 The belief that Asian cricketers struggle on the hard , bouncy wickets Down Under was thrown out of the window as India , Sri Lanka , Pakistan and Bangladesh moved ahead from the group stages . Three more wins will see a team crowned the 2015 champions -- just like Pakistan did when the World Cup was last held in Australia and New Zealand in 1992 -- and another victory for Asia can not be ruled out . " There is no reason why an Asian side ca n't win this time , " legandary Pakistani fast bowler Wasim Akram , who was part of the 1992 winning team , told AFP . " They have played well and deserve to go through. In a knock-out situation , past form will really not count. Everything depends on how you play on that day. " Defending champions India bounced back from a dismal tour of Australia prior to the World Cup to record six straight wins in the league , which surprised many , but not team director Ravi Shastri . " I 'm not one bit surprised , " the former all-rounder told the Wisden India website. " What we are looking forward to now is to carry on the good work. Not think too far ahead , but keep the momentum going. " India 's quarter-final opponents at the iconic Melbourne Cricket ground on Thursday will be Bangladesh , the surprise packet of the tournament who knocked England out in the league . Bangladesh went through almost the entire last year without a win in Test or one-day cricket , but the tactical acumen of their Sri Lankan coach Chandika Hathurusinghe and fast bowling adviser Heath Streak has paid dividends . Two consecutive centuries by Mohammad Mahmudullah and incisive fast bowling by Rubel Hossain and young Taskin Ahmed led the turnaround for the Tigers , and skipper Mashrafe Mortaza promises more from his side . " We are hungry for success and I am confident we can reach new heights , " said Mortaza , whose team sent India crashing from the first stage of the 2007 World Cup in the Caribbean . Mortaza said his biggest challenge was to check the growing excitement in the team over making the knock-out rounds for the first time and the prospect of playing before some 90,000 spectators at the MCG . " Everyone is excited about the game but as a professional unit we must focus on the task ahead , " he said. " Its a chance to show the world that we are among the top teams. " The India-Bangladesh match means that at least one Asian team will be guaranteed a place in the semi-finals , but Sri Lanka and Pakistan will also be strong contenders for the last four . Sri Lanka , who take on the powerful but inconsistent South Africa in Wednesday 's first quarter-final at the Sydney Cricket Ground , have the prolific Kumar Sangakkara in their ranks . The 37-year-old left-hander , playing one-day cricket for the last time , has already hammered an unprecedented four consecutive centuries and tops the batting charts with 496 runs . With the 38-year-old Tillakaratne Dilshan having made 395 runs with two hundreds , it promises to be an enthralling contest between Sri Lanka 's in-form batsmen and the Proteas ' attack led by Dale Steyn . Coach Marvan Atapattu is confident that Sri Lanka , the 1996 champions who lost in the finals in both the last two editions , are equipped to deal with the pressures of a knock-out game . " Over the last few years in big tournament matches , I 've seen people raise their game and raise the whole team , " he said . " These guys can do it again. When it comes to pulling together and working towards a common goal , we 're among the best. " Pakistan , described by South African coach Russell Domingo as " predictably unpredictable " , lived up to that reputation by bouncing back from two defeats to win four in a row . And as they prepare to tackle mighty Australia at the Adelaide Oval on Friday , skipper Misbah-ul Haq was convinced his team can win the tournament and repeat the feat of their 1992 predecessors . " Of course we can win the World Cup , " Misbah said after knocking Ireland out of the race. " We have the momentum. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
