Australia 's final World Cup sledge ends with apology The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Apr 1 , 2015 , 09.40AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Australian wicketkeeper Brad Haddin has offered an unusual half-apology after his final World Cup sledging of New Zealand , suggesting that liquid celebrations may have fuelled his frank comments during a radio interview . The arch sledger had been at the forefront of big " send-offs " for Kiwi batsmen Martin Guptill and Grant Elliott as well as spinner Daniel Vettori after their key dismissals in Sunday 's final in Melbourne , where Australia thrashed their traditional rivals . The next day Haddin went on local radio and , asked about the send-offs , added a few more remarks . " You know what ? They deserved it , " the wicketkeeper said . " They were that nice to us in New Zealand ( when Australia lost a pool match ) and we were that uncomfortable. They were that nice to us the whole week . " I said in the team meeting : 'I ca n't stand for this anymore. We 're going at them as hard as we can.' " I said , 'I 'm not playing cricket like this. If we get another crack at these guys in the final I 'm letting everything ( out ) . And I 'm not going to play another one-day game so they can suspend me for as long as they like. " But Haddin has since tempered his words and suggested the celebrations after winning the tournament might have had something to do with his comments . " We were celebrating a World Cup win and enjoying ourselves after a long tournament , " he said . " In hindsight , we should have stayed off the radio. If I offended anyone , it was never my intention. " Haddin 's sober remarks stood in stark contrast to his earlier on-air descriptions of the party antics of coach Darren Lehmann and all-rounder James Faulkner among other players . " I 'll paint a picture for you now , " Haddin said during the radio interview. " I 've got a coach who 's spooning the World Cup who ca n't speak . " I 've got James Faulkner who 's got his clothes off but do n't tell everyone . " And I 've got the Marsh boys , and you know I ca n't even talk about the Marsh boys because you know what trouble they have . " I 've got Josh Hazlewood ... he 's never been drunk in 30 years. It 's a problem. We just ca n't get him drunk. He 's an absolute nightmare to drink with. " Defeated New Zealand arrived home Tuesday after diplomatically playing down the send-offs . " It was n't really discussed within the group , " said captain Brendon McCullum . " Send-offs are send-offs. It 's not something we necessarily are concerned about. " " I think the focus should be on how well Australia played and how they deserved this victory rather than any minor issues. " Australia won by a crushing seven wickets . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
