Australia 's Watson enjoying charmed second life at World Cup The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 20 , 2015 , 07.17PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Shane Watson continued to make the most of his 'second life ' at the World Cup , surviving a dropped catch and a fiery assault by Pakistan paceman Wahab Riaz to guide Australia to the semi-finals with an impressive half-century on Friday . Watson was dropped on four in the deep after weathering a barrage of bouncers from Wahab , but finished unbeaten on 64 and teamed up with Glenn Maxwell for a 68-run partnership to close out a dominant six-wicket victory at Adelaide Oval . The barrel-chested Queenslander was also dropped by selectors for Australia 's pool match against Afghanistan , an omission some thought might spell the end of his tournament , if not his one-day international career . He was a surprise recall for the co-hosts ' win over Sri Lanka in Sydney and scored a handy 67 in the match at the SCG when pushed down to the middle order . Watson batted at fifth in the order against Pakistan to continue his late-tournament resurgence and earned special praise from captain Michael Clarke . " I 've said for a long time that a good mix of youth and experience in any sport at the highest level generally has the most success , " Clarke told reporters . " I think we 've got that through our squad. Yeah , and I think Watto showed that today . " Like I say , he had some luck getting dropped at fine leg , but then to be able to find a way to tough that out and then capitalise more importantly once he got through that spell , played his natural game , hit the ball really well. So yeah , I think his experience certainly helped him today. " Led by four wickets from recalled paceman Josh Hazlewood , Australia 's seamers were at their intimidating best to restrict Pakistan for 213 , setting up the platform for victory . The India semi-final will promise different conditions on a Sydney Cricket Ground wicket that traditionally offers turn but was benign in Australia 's pool win over Sri Lanka . Pakistan captain Misbah questioned whether Australia might suffer at the SCG for the lack of a quality frontline spinner against India . Clarke , an occasional left-arm tweaker , said his team would make do with part-timer Glenn Maxwell and himself , if specialist Xavier Doherty was not called up . " I do n't think a ball spun in the game we played against Sri Lanka , " Clarke said. " I think it 'll depend on what wicket gets prepared . " If it does spin , we 've got spinning options in our squad . " I 've got confidence that whatever 11 is selected , we play our best cricket , we give ourselves every chance of winning that game in whatever conditions. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
