Barry Richards wants ball tampering legalised The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 18 , 2015 , 02.25PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : South African cricket legend Barry Richards feels that ball tampering should be legalised in order to make the game more balanced and not heavily loaded in favour of the batsmen . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 One of South Africa 's most talented batsmen , Richards fears for the future of modern-day cricket with an unfair domination of bat over ball . " All I want is a 50-50 contest , which it is not now , " Richards , 69 , was quoted as saying on Cricket Australia website . " If it continues the way it is , kids will only want to bat. There will be no bowlers and the game will decline , " he added . Richards , who was able to play only four Test matches - all against Australia - before South Africa 's exclusion from the international scene in 1970 , averaged over 70. He said that allowing ball-tampering , placing restrictions on bat making and a relaxing rules regarding leg-side bowling are just some of the measures that could be introduced to even up the contest . " Reverse swing is an art. Let the bowlers rub the ball in the dirt if they want because not all bowlers can produce reverse swing , " Richards said . " Maybe in one-day cricket you could let the better bowlers bowl 25 of the 50 overs , but only two bowlers are nominated before the start to bowl those overs . " The pressing of cricket bats also has to be controlled and the thickness in their edges. Maybe there can also be a designated sweet spot area for bats , ours used to be about the size of a 50 cent piece but now they are much bigger . " You could also relax cricket 's leg-side rules a bit. These are just a few of my ideas , because batsmen have it too easy these days , " he added . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
