BCCI elections may throw up a no-contest The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Feb 27 , 2015 , 09.53AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : The much-awaited Annual General Meeting ( AGM ) of the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) , slated for March 2 in Chennai , is unlikely to witness an electoral battle. With the ruling faction , led by N Srinivasan , and the rival group , headed by Sharad Pawar , both hopelessly placed in the numbers game , the elections to the world 's richest cricket body is set to be called by the Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) which is in a position to directly or indirectly influence at least eight votes in a 31-member house . There is still no unanimity over the choice of candidates for BCCI 's top post , but there is ample indication that the ruling party at the Centre is dead against backing the Srinivasan faction , which stands thoroughly discredited in the highest court of the land following a long-drawn inquiry into the IPL 6 scandal. Arun Jaitley could play a key role in this regard. Hectic parleys are expected over the next two days after the finance minister finishes putting final touches to the Union Budget . Pawar 's assertion on Wednesday that he would not brook either the continuation of BCCI president-in-exile Srinivasan or any attempt by him to rule by proxy by installing one of his loyalists , seems to have found support in the ruling party . The BJP is expected to make its stand clear by Saturday. It is likely that it may either go with NCP supremo Pawar , a former ICC and BCCI chief , or back a 'neutral ' pan el headed by either Jagmohan Dalmiya or Rajeev Shukla in a bid to cleanse the country 's cricket administration. While Dalmiya 's failing health is a matter of concern , Shukla 's Congress links may hinder his candidature . In either case , it will be a no-contest because the numbers will add up nicely for any panel that gets the BJP 's blessings. For the record , the BJP can influence the votes in DDCA ( Delhi ) , Himachal , Gujarat , Andhra and Jharkhand besides the three government institutions -- Railways , Services and Universities. Needless to say , any panel which gets these eight votes will have no problems in mustering a simple majority which translates to 16 votes at the AGM . Moreover , the panel backed by the BJP will also attract the traditional fence-sitters , who are known to switch allegiance in order to remain on the right side of the Establishment , reducing the electoral battle to a no-contest. If BJP makes its stand clear in the next 48 hours , there is a good chance that the panel backed by the party will sail through unopposed as the other factions may shy away from exposing their 'loyalists ' in a lost cause . As things stand , the Srinivasan camp has the support of seven associations , while the Pawar faction can bank on the support of nine. If the BJP throws its weight behind the neutral panel , expect a majority of the Pawar group to follow suit . Either which way , it could signal two things : End of the Srinivasan era in the BCCI and yet another electoral victory for BJP . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
