Benaud - the end of a 'Marvellous ' innings The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Apr 10 , 2015 , 08.33AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Richie Benaud holds a revered place in international cricket , lauded as a " national treasure " and the most influential Australian cricketer and broadcaster of his era . The Test great and pioneering broadcaster died in his sleep Friday at the age of 84 after fighting skin cancer and the debilitating effects of a car accident near his Sydney seaside home in 2013 . " Our country has lost a national treasure , " mourned Cricket Australia chairman Wally Edwards . " After Don Bradman , there has been no Australian player more famous or more influential than Richie Benaud. " Benaud , who was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire ( OBE ) in 1961 for services to cricket , led Australia in 28 of his 63 Tests and did not lose a series as captain . His adventurous leadership was encapsulated by the famous tied Test with the West Indies in Brisbane in 1960 . Australia were chasing 233 with 320 minutes of play left , and Benaud 's instinct was to go for an improbable win. He came in to bat at a perilous 92 for six and hit a rollicking 52 , as Australia counter-attacked until a run-out on the last ball left the scores tied . The dashing leg-spinning all-rounder epitomised his cricket by playing with his shirt unbuttoned to his chest and his collar upturned . Benaud said recently he was paying the price for a cricket career in which he did not wear a hat or sunscreen against the often fierce sun . " When I was a kid we never ever wore a cap. I wish I had. You live and learn as you go along , " he said . " I recommend to everyone they wear protection on their heads. Eighty-four-year-olds do n't seem to mend as well as they used to. " The first man to complete the double of 2,000 runs and 200 wickets in Test cricket , Benaud combined sport with life as a journalist for The Sun and the News of the World from 1956 until his retirement as a player in 1964 . He learned reporting on the police beat and began his broadcasting career on BBC Radio in 1960 , moving to BBC Television three years later. He also had a stint on Britain 's Channel 4 . Benaud said of his laconic commentating style : " The key thing was to learn the value of economy with words and to never insult the viewer by telling them what they can already see. " He memorably featured in a series of television advertisements for the Australian Tourism Commission in 2004. The commercial showed him in a range of scenic locations saying his cricketing catchphrase , " Marvellous " . The much-mimicked Benaud was renowned for appearing before the TV cameras adorned in his beige jacket and he never took umbrage at his many impersonators . " I never talk about that. The only objection I have is if someone uses my name or image and tries to sell something , " was Benaud 's response when asked about the satirists . After retiring from playing Benaud divided his time between the summer cricket seasons of Britain and Australia , working in television and writing books and for newspapers . Overall Benaud played in or commentated on approximately 500 Test matches , as he noted in one of his final interviews in Britain . Through his work in England and commentary for commercial television in Australia , he became the iconic voice of the Channel Nine team from the first summer of media baron Kerry Packer 's trailblazing World Series Cricket in 1977-78 . He retired from international commentary after the 2005 Ashes series , partly as a protest against the game 's disappearance from free-to-air TV in Britain . Benaud remained a mainstay in Nine 's cricket coverage until the 2013 car accident sidelined him , before he announced in November last year that he was fighting skin cancer . It was Benaud 's distinctive voice that provided a moving tribute to Test cricketer Phillip Hughes , who died when struck by a bouncer last November . Benaud finished his narration with a poignant " forever , rest in peace , son " . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
