Best four in World Cup 2015 semis , says Mike Hesson The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 22 , 2015 , 09.55AM IST New Zealand fans celebrated their side getting through to the semis , and extending their unbeaten run to nine matches , coach Mike Hesson said they deserved to be among cricket 's ODI elite. ( Agency Photo ) Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : There can be no argument about the make up of the World Cup semifinals , with the best four teams still alive , New Zealand coach Mike Hesson declared Sunday . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 New Zealand were the last confirmed semifinalists when Martin Guptill 's stunning 237 not out set up a lop-sided 143-run victory over the West Indies in Wellington on Saturday . They meet South Africa in Auckland on Tuesday in the first semi-final with Australia playing India in the second semi-final two days later in Sydney . New Zealand 's demolition of the West Indies was hailed in the local news media , led by calls from one radio station for a national holiday next Tuesday so the whole nation can watch their semi-final against South Africa . But while the New Zealand fans celebrated their side getting through to the semis , and extending their unbeaten run to nine matches , coach Hesson said they deserved to be among cricket 's ODI elite . " The best four teams are in the semifinals and I do n't think many people could disagree with that , " he said Sunday as New Zealand flew to Auckland for their showdown with South Africa . " South Africa on their day are exceptional , ( but ) put them under pressure and see what happens . " The two sides are playing good cricket and it 's going to be a heck of a show. " Hesson said New Zealand were " confident as a group " and he rated Guptill 's heroics with the bat against the West Indies as one of the finest innings he had seen . " The way he paced the innings by setting the tone early , playing straight , adapting to the conditions and timing everything from ball 30 on. It was pretty surreal , " he said . " There were a lot of high fives and huddles ( in the team room ) . It was an amazing innings which we were immensely proud to watch. " In addition to Guptill 's 237 , the highest score ever in a World Cup match , a four-wicket haul for Trent Boult and an outstanding leaping catch by Daniel Vettori were significant elements in the win over the West Indies . Vettori , the elder statesman of the New Zealand side , had to take a lot of ribbing from his teammates for the way he hurled his 1.91 metre ( 6ft 3in ) frame into the air to pull off a remarkable one-handed catch that removed Marlon Samuels . " I did n't think 36-year-olds could jump that high , " Hesson quipped . " From our point of view , I thought it was going over ( the boundary ) and he 'd made a bit of a token jump , but obviously there was more to it. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
