Bitter rivalry adds edge to World cup semifinal The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 23 , 2015 , 02.14PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : The love-hate relationship between Australia and India has added extra spice to Thursday 's World Cup semi-final at the Sydney Cricket Ground ( SCG ) . There is no shortage of mutual respect between the two teams but as the two most powerful nations in contemporary cricket , they are also the fiercest of rivals . With players on neither side willing to give any ground , their battle for global supremacy has led to some tense battles on and off the pitch , which have occasionally overheated . The most infamous clash was during the second match of their 2007-8 series , played at the SCG. India lost the match in the final moments of the last day but that was only the start of the drama . The Indians were furious that a number of key umpiring decisions had gone against them. Then their spinner Harbhajan Singh was charged with racially abusing Australia 's Andrew Symonds in what became known as the 'Monkeygate ' scandal . Harbhajan was banned for three matches , further upsetting the Indians , who responded by saying they were abandoning the tour and heading home. The International Cricket Council intervened , the charges were later downgraded and the team agreed to stay . But the rivalry has remained to this day. In the lead-up to the World Cup , the teams played each other in a test and one-day series where tensions again threatened to boil over . The Australian batsman David Warner and the Indian pair of Virat Kohli and Shikhar Dhawan were all fined by the ICC after a row during the test series while Australian fast bowler Mitchell Starc was given a warning . When the teams switched to One Day Internationals after the test series , Warner was slapped with another fine after telling Indian opener Rohit Sharma to " speak English " . With the match sold out and hundreds of millions of people expected to watch on television as the teams fight for a place in the World Cup final , all the ingredients are there for another explosive battle . The players on both teams have already been warned about their behaviour but have shown no signs of backing down with so much at stake . " They 've spent a lot of time in the country so they 've adapted well to the conditions , so it 's no surprise they 're up against us in the semi-final , " Australian all-rounder James Faulkner told a news conference before team training on Monday . " I think they 're a very strong team and we are as well . " I think there always ( is rivalry ) in the game , if there is n't you 've got problems . " It 's the nature of the game , it 's a semi-final , it 's cut-throat , there 's going to be words said. It 's going to be a really tough contest and both teams wo n't be backing down. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
