Branded bat sales down in Delhi even as World Cup fever peaks The author has posted comments on this article Abhimanyu Mathur , TNN | Mar 17 , 2015 , 08.31PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Usually , the World Cup is to sports retailers what Diwali is to gadget sellers. During this time , the sale of bats and other cricket gears generally sees a substantial increase , particularly if the Indian team performs well . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 However , the ongoing World Cup has been an aberration. Despite a strong performance by Team India , bat sales have actually dropped in the city . Factors like increase in online sales and the board exams have contributed to this , say retailers. Manufacturers say that orders from Delhi have dwindled in recent years and even the World Cup could n't change this trend . ORDERS FROM DELHI ALMOST NEGLIGIBLE , SAY MANUFACTURERS Rakesh Mahajan , director , BDM , says , " Every World Cup , we generally see a spike in sales , but this time , despite an excellent performance by India , the sales have been negligible. Most of our stock is still in the warehouse , which is quite surprising. Much of it is because the orders from Delhi and NCR have been minimal. Delhi used to be one of our biggest markets but , of late , the sales have been dismal. " Paras Anand , marketing director , Sanspareils Greenlands ( SG ) , says , " The sale of cricket gear has plateaued in the last couple of years in Delhi and NCR. This is mainly due to Delhi 's proximity to Meerut. Smaller manufacturers and dealers directly deliver their bats in bulk to academies and coaches. This has adversely affected the business of retailers in Delhi , who , in turn , place fewer orders with us. So , despite the World Cup , there has n't been any increase in sales for us. " FOOTFALL LOW IN DELHI STORES DESPITE WC Manoj , sales executive at Lodhi Sports in Ghitorni , says , " Usually during a World Cup , we see a 15-20 % rise in the sale of Kashmir willow and English willow bats. But this time , we are actually seeing a decline as compared to last year. Increase in online sale of sports gear is one major factor , as it has reduced the number of people going to retail stores. We retailers invest extra during this time , as we feel the sales would increase. But the situation is so bad that a few stores have been forced to shut shop as they could not recover this investment. " Pankaj Sethi , owner of Sethi Sports in Tagore Garden , says , " The footfall in sports retail stores in Delhi is at an all-time low. We have seen that over the last two-three years , the number of customers has gone down gradually. Additionally , coaches and cricket academies tie-up with smaller manufacturers. This affects our business and sidelines the big players like BDM , SS , and SG. We anticipated a decline and placed fewer orders this time. " CHEAPER BATS FROM LOCAL MANUFACTURERS MORE POPULAR Manufacturers say that an increased focus on advertisers instead of manufacturers has led to a decline in their sales. Mahajan elaborates , " If a Kohli or a Dhoni has a bat with a sticker of some company on it , what every kid notices is the name on the sticker and not the maker. So kids want that bat 'jisse Dhoni khelta hai ' , regardless of who the maker is. Small manufacturers make the most of this situation by making cheaper willow bats with those stickers. " Sanjay Singh , a bat dealer from Lajpat Nagar , says , " Earlier , smaller manufacturers usually made bats with cheaper local wood and not willow. But of late , they have also switched to Kashmir willow , making their bats more in demand. Additionally , they do not have an established brand and so , have no qualms about allowing advertisers to put their stickers on the bats. Kids are enticed by these cheaper willow bats with company stickers on them. " BOARD EXAMS AFFECTING SALES The ongoing board exams have also contributed to the decrease in sale. Anand says , " About 60-70 % of the market is made up of those under the age of 18 - school children. Earlier , the World Cup used to take place in May-June , which coincided with the summer vacations. But since 2007 , the tournament is being held in Feb-March , when most students have their exams. " Anil , salesman at a sports shop in CP , says , " Younger kids do n't buy bats made of willow , which are more expensive than those made of local wood. The older kids , who do buy willow bats , have their exams right now. So , the sales are bound to be low. Last time , the World Cup was in India and the craze and hype around the tournament was greater. So , despite the exams , sales did increase. But this time , even though India is performing quite well , the interest is low. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
