Brendon McCullum : New Zealand 's multi-talented , muscular leader The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 28 , 2015 , 11.24AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : When Brendon McCullum took over as captain of New Zealand in December 2014 , the team was engulfed by dressing-room strife . Now , just over two years later , the Black Caps are in their first World Cup final and the muscular , multi-skilled McCullum is being feted as a national hero . The 33-year-old opener has sport in his blood. In his schooldays , he was selected ahead of future All Blacks superstar Dan Carter in a regional rugby team but learned to love cricket hanging around the grounds of New Zealand while his father Stuart carved out a first-class career with Otago from the 1970s to 1990s . Older brother Nathan is also a New Zealand Test and ODI player , although he is likely to be watching Sunday 's final against Australia from the MCG sidelines as he has yet to be selected for a game at the World Cup . Facing the Australians in front of around 90,000 people at the MCG will not daunt the skipper , who needed all his battling qualities when he assumed the leadership of the team in 2012 . He replaced Ross Taylor as captain but immediately had to deny any involvement in outsting his team-mate from a leadership role . McCullum was a controversial choice as his country 's 28th captain with his tough , tattooed exterior in marked contrast to the wholesome boy-next-door Taylor who , in protest at being dumped as skipper , immediately withdrew from the ensuing tour of South Africa . McCullum was seen as the preferred choice of newly-installed coach Mike Hesson , who never publicly endorsed Taylor and referred to him as being a board appointment . In an editorial at the time , the New Zealand Herald described New Zealand Cricket ( NZC ) as a rudderless ship and said " Taylor has become the latest poster-child for the high-performance dysfunction in our national summer game " . McCullum said suggestions he was involved in a coup and of a rift between himself and Taylor , was untrue . " It cuts right to the bone , that people would question your integrity and your character like that , " he said . The controversy did n't affect McCullum 's career too much. To date he has made 5,870 runs in 92 Tests with a high score of 302 against India in February last year , the only Test triple century score by a New Zealander . He is also brutal in the ODI format with 5,808 runs in 248 games and with a best score of 166 . At the ongoing World Cup , he hit an 18-ball 50 against England , the fourth time he has reached a ODI half-century in 20 balls or fewer . Twenty20 is also in his headlights. In the first match of the Indian Premier League in 2008 , he hit 158 before becoming the second man , after West Indies ' Chris Gayle , to score a Twenty20 international century against Australia in 2010 . As well as a flamboyant , pinch-hitting role at the top of the Black Caps order , McCullum has a flair for the personal touch . On his right shoulder , he has childrens ' birthdates tattooed in Roman numerals . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
