B-Town thanks Indian cricket team for perfect Sunday The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Feb 15 , 2015 , 07.03PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Bollywood stars , including Lata Mangeshkar , Amitabh Bachchan and Ajay Devgn , were on Sunday rejoicing the Indian win over Pakistan in a World Cup pool match in Adelaide . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Here 's what they shared on Twitter : Lata Mangeshkar : Hamari Bhartiya Cricket team ko is jeet ke liye meri taraf se bohot bohot badhaai ( I congratulate Team India for its victory ) . Read Also : India-Pakistan clash lights up Twitter Amitabh Bachchan : YEEEAAAAHHHHH ! India wins ... my second prediction came true too ... is it got something to do with the date 15th Feb ! 15th Feb ! historic date for me ... on this date 46 years ago in 1969 , I signed my 1st film to join the Film Industry. Well played INDIA ... entire team showed resolve , talent and determination ! May you continue such onwards ...JAI HIND ! Anupam Kher : JAI HO. Touch Wood. Ma Ka Thu Thu bhi kaam aaya. # GreatStart Ajay Devgn : Woke up watching # IndvsPak match today. This is what I call a perfect Sunday and perfect start to the World Cup . Riteish Deshmukh : World Cup Record Intact ! Dia Mirza : Nicely done @ imVkohli ! ! ! Many more to come # ICCWorldCup2015 # StayInYourZone : ) : ) # INDvPAK Arjun Rampal : Congratulations India.Great start , keeping our record intact.Fantastic game our team played.Outplayed them completely Virat man of the match . Sushant Singh Rajput : Bleeding blue... What a start... way to go team India... ! ! # ProudDesi Boman Irani : Well played India ! Cool , clinical and in control ! We sweated at home more then you did on the field. # INDvsPAK Sonakshi Sinha : Yay ! ! We won Manoj Bajpayee : Very impressive victory. congrats team India . Shraddha Kapoor : WINNNN ! ! ! # IndvsPak # INDIAAAAA Preity Zinta : Yeahhhhhhhhh ! ! ! ! ! India wins the match. Awesomeeee ! Now the grin is plastered across my face # PAKvsIND # CWC15 Am Loving it ! Sushmita Sen : Yessssssssss ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! INDIA ! ! ! ! ! Proud of our team ! ! ! ! ! : ) # IAMFamily : ) # CWC15 Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
