Chris Gayle blast epitomizes ODI batting 's changing face The author has posted comments on this article West Indies batsman Chris Gayle celebrates scoring double century during the World Cup match against Zimbabwe in Canberra. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : There have been 16 180-plus individual scores registered by batsmen in One-day cricket over the last 31 years , beginning with the walloping of England in 1984 by Vivian Richards. Of those 16 batsmen , only three have been able to go past the 200-run mark. To put it the other way round , 13 batsmen ended up missing the landmark by anywhere between six to 17 runs . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Sachin Tendulkar broke that barrier on February 24 , 2010 in Gwalior against South Africa. On Monday , Chris Gayle became the fourth batsman after Tendulkar , Virender Sehwag and Rohit Sharma ( twice ) to join that coveted list . The fear that Richards evoked in the opposition camp may now rest in the memories of the old-timers who saw him in his pomp. For the present generation , a double hundred is the new benchmark of One-day batting excellence. How come a double ton is no longer a distant figure. What has changed in cricket that batsmen are aiming for the stars and getting there. Take a look : NEW ODI CRICKET RULES Sachin Tendulkar 's 200 not out in 2010 being an exception , the remaining double hundreds in ODIs have come under the new set of ICC rules that have garnered quite a bit of criticism for making the game heavily batsman-friendly . In the first 10 overs of mandatory powerplay , only two fielders are allowed outside the 30-yard circle. Only three fielders are allowed outside the circle during the batting powerplay of five overs. In the non-powerplay overs too , only four players can be posted outside the circle . While two new balls from each end give teams with a good pace attack a bit of an edge , they also provide top-order batsmen the opportunity to be on the attack mode for longer than what it used to be . THE T20 PHENOMENON Shahrukh Khan went into a tizzy when Brendon McCullum scored an unbeaten 158 for the Knight Riders in the very first match of the IPL in 2008. Ever since , there have been five 150-plus scores in the tournament , the highest being Chris Gayle 's 175 not out , and 15 125-plus scores . What these scoring patterns have done to the game the format notwithstanding is they have allowed batsmen to free their arms faster regardless of a bowler 's reputation or the conditions . The idea to entertain , the mindset to go after the bowlers , the young generation 's lack of respect for any reputation , flat pitches thanks to Twenty20 again and the batsman 's preparedness have changed the dynamics of batting forever . SHORTER BOUNDARIES The MCG is among the few venues that meets the ICC 's international stipulation for field dimensions while the Brit Oval , Newlands in Cape Town and the SCG come close. But most cricket grounds across the world are way smaller , thanks to renovations over the years . No wonder then , 173 is the highest ODI score at the MCG , 151 at the SCG and 145 the highest at the Kensington Oval . NEED TO HAVE HIGH-SCORING GAMES The ICC is facing questions over the size of modern cricket bats , lack of support the Kookaburra balls provide to slow bowlers and the ever-rising need to please the paying public. All this has led to a surfeit of big totals and fours and sixes galore. The beneficiary is obviously the batsmen who are making merry with bigger scores and higher strike rates . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
