Clarke return has team 's 'full support ' , says Johnson The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Feb 17 , 2015 , 11.07AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 The return of regular Australia captain Michael Clarke for the second World Cup match against Bangladesh has the team 's " full support " even if it will be tough to change a winning side , fast bowler Mitchell Johnson said on Tuesday . On the comeback from hamstring surgery , Clarke is expected to pad up for Saturday 's match in Brisbane , meeting the deadline to prove his fitness or sit out the World Cup entirely . Clarke 's return is likely to mean stand-in skipper George Bailey is tipped from the side after leading them to a 111-run demolition of England in the opener in Melbourne and scoring a useful half-century . " I love the captaincy that he ( Clarke ) brings , " Johnson told reporters in Brisbane on Tuesday . " He has got so much experience and George does as well. But Michael Clarke has been the captain for a number of years now . " I know he has the boys ' full support. " Clarke played his first match with the team in two months last week , top-scoring with a 64 in a warm-up match against United Arab Emirates. That prompted pundits to question why he was rested for England . Coach Darren Lehmann said Clarke needed to do more tests this week , particularly in the field , to prove himself ready . Clarke 's race to be fit has been something of a soap opera in Australia and an unsourced report by Fairfax media last month alleged a rift between the 33-year-old , his players and the country 's cricket board . Lehmann , Clarke and seasoned all-rounder Shane Watson all dismissed the innuendo in recent weeks , while Johnson said the captain 's rehabilitation had not distracted the team . " I know that he is ready to go , " Johnson said . " But I do n't know from a playing point of view what the plan is. He is doing what he needs to do. He is not making it a distraction for us . " Whenever that chance is when he gets back in we will be ready for him. " Australia 's big win over England reinforced their status as favourites to seal a record fifth World Cup title , and Johnson said it would be hard for selectors to change the lineup for Bangladesh . " It will be. It was a pretty short meeting after the game , " said the 33-year-old . " But we can always get better at certain things , not lose wickets so closely together . " ( But ) the fielding was outstanding throughout that innings. If we can keep that intensity up I think we are going to have confidence throughout this tournament. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
