Clarke salutes Smith as Australia power into World Cup final The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 26 , 2015 , 06.51PM IST Sunday 's final in Melbourne will give Australia the chance to avenge their one-wicket loss to New Zealand in a pool-phase thriller at Auckland 's Eden Park last month. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Australia captain Michael Clarke praised the " exceptional " Steve Smith after his side beat defending champions India by 95 runs on Thursday to set a ICC World Cup 2015 final with New Zealand . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " I feel really excited. Smithy was exceptional once again , and I was really proud of the execution of our bowlers , " said Clarke after a convincing win at the Sydney Cricket Ground where the impressive Mitchell Starc took two for 28 in 8.5 overs and James Faulkner three for 59 in nine . Sunday 's final in Melbourne will give Australia the chance to avenge their one-wicket loss to New Zealand in a pool-phase thriller at Auckland 's Eden Park last month . " Losing to New Zealand really gave us a kick up the backside , " said Clarke. " Mentally I think the guys are ready to walk into the final . " New Zealand have been playing some great cricket , ( captain ) Brendon ( McCullum ) has done a great job. " Smith added : " We thought 330 was around par , we knew we had to bowl and field well and the boys did a great job , so roll on Melbourne. It 's nice to contribute to a few wins . " I hope I have more runs in the bank -- a big hundred would be nice. " India made a bold start to their chase , with the highest score ever made by a side batting second to win a one-dayer at the SCG the 334 for six made by Australia against England in 2011 . But once opener Shikhar Dhawan holed out for 45 off Josh Hazlewood , India struggled and even Dhoni 's brisk innings came too late to turn the tide . " Overall Australia played very good cricket. Over 300 is a very big score to chase , but I thought it was just over par , " said Dhoni . " Shikhar Dhawan was batting freely , he did n't need to play the big shot. It was too many for me to chase . " Our lower order really needs to work hard on their batting. " The 33-year-old wicketkeeper-batsman hinted this may have been his last appearance at the World Cup by saying : " I 'm not sure whether it will be my last World Cup. " But with India having an enjoyed an unbeaten run to the semifinals , Clarke said : " Huge congratulations to MS Dhoni and his team , I think they 've competed really well in this World Cup . " I 'm pretty sure it wo n't be his last World Cup , he 's got a lot of cricket left in him. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
