Clarke to quit ODIs after World Cup final , will keep playing Tests The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 29 , 2015 , 10.08AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : The whisper was getting louder , the question was being asked , and Michael Clarke decided this was time . Three days after demoting himself to No. 6 in the batting-order in a World Cup semifinal , the captain announced he would not play ODIs after the final . " How do you feel about your own game , " he was asked after the win in Sydney against India , and Clarke had shrugged. By his own admission , in a couple of hours he went back home , woke up his wife and told her that he was going to leave the ODI scene after the World Cup . " It was 12 : 30 am and Kyly was in bed , and I think that 's when I spoke to her about it , " Clarke said , adding : " But I will play Test cricket , it 's still the No. 1 format for me. In fact my decision to quit ODIs has a lot to do with the fact that I want to play Test cricket for some more time. " The past few months have been one of emotional turmoil. He lost his ` little brother ' Phil Hughes in the beginning of the summer , there was a career-threatening injury that followed and there was a time when it seemed that he might not be able to play the World Cup . But Clarke believed he could , and finally got fit only in the third game that Australia played in the tournament , incidentally against New Zealand. But Clarke did n't exactly flourish in the tournament and his presence meant that George Bailey , the in-form player , had to sit out . " At the back of my mind I 've been thinking whether I have a chance of playing in the next World Cup , and about 48 hours ago I made the decision that I do n't. That answered a lot of questions for me , " Clarke said . Clarke , though , did not tell his teammates until he reached the ground on Saturday to prepare for the final . There were a few handshakes around and coming up to the MCG media centre , Clarke said : " I was very fortunate four years ago to get the opportunity to captain this ODI team. It was really good preparation for me leading up to this World Cup and I think the next Australian captain deserves the same opportunity. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
