Comeback Aamer urges youngsters not to 'destroy ' lives The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 10 , 2015 , 06.55PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 RAWALPINDI ( Pakistan ) : Former Pakistan pace prodigy Mohammad Aamer Tuesday urged young players to be careful of the company they kept to avoid " destroying " their lives , as he prepared to make his return from a spot-fixing ban . The 22-year-old was due to begin his first game back in domestic cricket on Monday but the first two days in the garrison town of Rawalpindi , not far from Islamabad , were cancelled due to a waterlogged pitch . Aamer was one of three Pakistanis banned from all cricket for at least five years for arranging no-balls to order in a Test against England at Lord 's in 2010 . He urged young players to learn from his mistakes and concentrate on the game . " If you want to achieve something in life you need to be very focused in your goals , " he said between fielding drills at the army cricket ground in Rawalpindi . " In these five years I 've learnt you need to make good friends in life , have good company , do n't destroy your life. " Aamer , fellow quick bowler Mohammmed Asif and then Pakistan captain Salman Butt were jailed in Britain over the spot-fixing scandal in 2011 . Aamer 's ban was originally due to expire on September 2 , but the International Cricket Council used discretionary powers to allow him to return to domestic cricket early , citing his early admission of guilt and cooperation with anti-corruption authorities . Looking more muscular than when he last played competitively , Aamer said he had been working hard on his fitness and had not lost any of the zest that saw him become the youngest bowler , at just 18 , to take 50 Test wickets . " I have n't played competitive cricket so far -- when you play in the rhythm of a match you know what speeds you 're bowling at when you 're at a good ground wearing spikes , " he said . " I feel in my practice that my pace has n't gone down , it 's going to be the same. " Aamer 's comeback match for the Karachi-based Omar Associates team against the Army in Pakistan 's Grade-II cricket league -- one rung below first-class -- was washed out for the second consecutive day on Tuesday following torrential rainfall last week . But he said he was hopeful of getting match practice on Wednesday , with the next game due to start in Rawalpindi on Friday , as he works on his goal of eventually returning to the national team . With Pakistan 's bowling attack finally appearing to click in a key World Cup victory over South Africa at the weekend , Aamer 's swift return to the side is far from assured . But he heaped praise on his former teammates , terming their performance " outstanding " and congratulating the team for its " fighting spirit " . Aamer singled out South Africa 's Dale Steyn and Australia 's Mitchell Starc , who has so far taken 12 wickets at an average of 10 during the World Cup , as his top bowlers at the moment . He is mindful too that thanks to the influence of Twenty20 cricket , tactics have moved on in his absence and he acknowledged he will need to adapt his game to emulate Steyn and Starc . The once-deadly yorker is no longer the killer weapon it once was , with batsmen like South Africa 's AB de Villiers willing to attack the delivery . " Yorkers are generally best in the death situation , but perhaps not for someone like AB de Villiers , " Aamer said . " But not everyone is an AB who can reverse sweep a yorker ! It all depends on the situation whether you should be bowling yorkers or slow bouncers. " His return has been eagerly awaited by most fans in cricket-mad Pakistan , though some notable critics , including former captain Rameez Raja , have argued he should not be given a second chance in the sport . Aamer said he would do his best to prove his detractors wrong and show he had turned over a new leaf . " I am trying my best and I did video messages with the ICC aimed at youngsters -- do n't take shortcuts , be focused on your goals , " he said . " I would not wish the five years I went through on my worst enemies. Work hard with good intentions and leave the rest to Allah , at the end of the day Allah will respect that. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
