Cricket-inspired food and cocktails available at eateries this World Cup season The author has posted comments on this article Ismat Tahseen , TNN | Feb 21 , 2015 , 03.01PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 To add to the current World Cup cricket fever in the city , eateries and gastro-pubs are serving dishes and drinks named after top cricket players and cricket terminology. So get ready to indulge in Dhoni da Tikka ( stuffed cottage cheese kebabs with mint chutney ) or try a No Ball ( a jalapeno stuffed cheese ball ) , at a hotel at the international airport. Says city-based chef Navid Sayyad , who has devised a similar menu. " There is such a huge demand for all things cricket now and I ca n't tell what gets more takers. " " Dhoni 's Dazzling Sixer ( spiced clay pot prawns ) , Virat 's Straight Drive ( chicken tikkas ) , Gayle 's Power ( grill chicken ) , Afridi 's Boom Boom ( lamb kebabs stuffed with cheese ) or the Malinga 's Yorker ( bell pepper and spinach gallets ) are all in demand , " says Sayyad. And in favour of India 's opponent for Sunday 's India vs South Africa match , a bar at Hill Road , Bandra will serve the South African specialty , Bunny Chow ( a hollowed out bread filled with curry ) . Amit Singh of a rooftop bar in the western suburbs has come up with a Bleed Blue Cocktail with blue curacao , breezer and crushed ice. Also tank up on Cricket LLIIT 's ( Longest Long Island Iced Teas ) conjured up especially for the game at a pub in Colaba. Another bar at a five-star in Andheri East has a molecular cocktail exclusively dedicated to the Indian team for World Cup. Called 'Smoke Down Under ' , it contains lychee liqueur , pomegranate juice and sour mix muddled and strained over lemon ice and dry smoked with basil and orange peel , and is available in three colours. And at a shots bar in Andheri West is fanning fans ' hopes with cricket-styled discounts. In Strike A Century , if Kohli hits a century , folks get a 10 % discount , for the Hat-trick Shot , if an Indian bowler gets a hat-trick patrons get three shots at the price of two and if the total score of India is above 300 there 's a big discount too . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
