Cricket World Cup 's most controversial moments The author has posted comments on this article Soumitra Das , TNN | Mar 14 , 2015 , 01.15PM IST Virat Kohli abused an Indian journalist for an old story on him and Anushka Sharma. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 Any world championship would be boring without a few controversies to spice up the action. This year 's World Cup , which is about to enter the quarterfinal phase , has had its share of controversies already. Here 's presenting some World Cup controversies which created as much buzz as the on-field action : 2015 Associate Anger : Although teams like Ireland have excelled this year , the ICC 's plans to reduce the World Cup to a 10-team affair in 2019 has left the associate nations fuming. Ireland captain William Porterfield blasted the move , and found support from Sachin Tendulkar . Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Kohli vs Scribe : In a case of mistaken identity , Virat Kohli abused an Indian journalist for an old story on him and Anushka Sharma. How we wish he would concentrate on taming bowlers instead ! Third Umpire Errors ? Some decisions by the third umpire during crunch moments have been debated. Pakistan 's Umar Akmal 's dismissal against India and England Chris Jordan 's run-out vs Bangladesh top the list . Twitter Bloopers ! Scotland 's Majid Haq was sent home after posting a racist tweet when he was dropped against Sri Lanka. West Indies cricket chief Dave Cameron retweeted a demand for Chris Gayle to be given " a retirement package " after he failed against Pakistan . The John Mooney moment : Zimbabwe 's Sean Williams was playing well against Ireland until he was caught on the boundary by John Mooney . While it was n't clear his foot was touched the ropes , Williams trusted him and Zimbabwe lost. A Zimbabwean reporter later labeled him as an alcoholic . 2011 The big toss confusion ! During the India vs Sri Lanka final , the coin had to be tossed twice after Jeff Crowe , the match referee , said that he did n't hear Sri Lanka skipper Kumara Sangakkara 's call the first time. Well , did that cost them the cup ? 2007 A 'Dark ' Day : The final between Australia and Sri Lanka turned out to be an embarrassment for the authorities. After the teams went off for bad light , a mistake by the officials led to the game resuming in near total darkness , although the cutoff point to constitute a match had already been reached ! The Woolmer tragedy : A day after Pakistan lost to Ireland to crash out of the tournament , their coach Bob Woolmer was found dead in his hotel room. It shook up everyone . Flintoff goes boating : After a late night drinking session , Andrew Flintoff was caught commandeering a pedalo ! He was stripped of vice-captaincy and suspended for a game . 2003 Ban Game : Shane Warne was sent home after he failed a drug test . Black armbands : Zimbabwe skipper Andy Flower and Henry Olonga wore black armbands during a match , protesting against Robert Mugabe 's presidency and " death of democracy . " Later , England refused to travel to Zimbabwe , and New Zealand did to Kenya . 1999 The ear-piece ! During their game vs India , skipper Hansie Cronje took the field with an earpiece taking instructions from coach Bob Woolmer. The gadget was removed during the first drinks break . 1996 Eden 's shame : As an Indian defeat seemed inevitable in the semifinal against Sri Lanka , the crowd vented its frustration by lighting fires and throwing bottles. The match was awarded to Sri Lanka , and Vinod Kambli left the field crying . 1992 Rain Rule : Before rain halted play , SA needed 22 off 13 balls to win England. After the rains , the target was reduced to 21 off one ball . Miandad 's Mimicry ! Irritated by Kiran More 's appeal , a miffed Javed Miandad started imitating him and jumping up and down like a monkey ! Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
