Delhi 's Vaibhav does a Dhoni in Syed Mustaq Ali Trophy The author has posted comments on this article Rohan Puri , TNN | Mar 26 , 2015 , 11.06AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Vaibhav Rawal knows how to make an impression. On Tuesday , he had finished the Delhi innings with a six , helping them set a challenging target against J&K . On Wednesday , this time chasing a target of 160 set by Punjab , Rawal finished off the match in style , hitting Siddharth Kaul for a huge six over deep mid-wicket . Playing in only his second T20 domestic match , Rawal guided his team home with an unbeaten 31 of 13 balls , giving Delhi their second win in the Syed Mustaq Ali Trophy at the Ferozeshah Kotla . Chasing a testing total of 160 , Delhi were off to a poor start once again , losing skipper Gautam Gambhir for just four runs. Gambhir , who scored just 10 against J&K on Tuesday , hit straight into the hands of Manan Vohra at covers off Barinder Singh . Applauded loudly by a handful of fans , Virender Sehwag was the next batsman in. Sehwag started the innings in typical fashion , slashing at a ball just outside off-stump but ended up nicking it to Punjab skipper Harbhajan Singh , who failed to grab the ball at first slip. It was a mistake that cost Punjab dear as Sehwag opened his account with a boundary and then went on to make 39 important runs . The highlight of the day was when Sehwag hit Gurinder Singh for two consecutive sixes , one over long on and the other at deep mid-wicket. He then punished Harbhajan with another big one straight over his head . However , Harbhajan got his man as Sehwag hit a low full toss straight into his hands. Nitish Rana ( 35 ) , Milind Kumar ( 23 * ) and Rawal played valuable knocks to see Delhi home . Earlier in the day , Yuvraj Singh ( 25 ) hit three fours and a six in his innings before being bowled by Pranshu Vijayran. Gurkeerat Mann top scored for Punjab with 42 . Delhi bowler Pawan Suyal was hammered for four consecutive fours by Gurinder and gave away 18 runs in his last over.Brief Scores : Punjab 159/7 in 20 overs ( Gurkeerat Singh 42 , Gurinder Singh 34 not out ; Pranshu Vijayran ( 3-32 ) lost to Delhi 162/4 in 19.3 overs ( Sehwag 39 , Nitish Rana 35 , Vaibhav Rawal 31 n.o. ; Brainder Sran 2-30 ) . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
