Dharmasena first to play and umpire in World Cup final The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Mar 27 , 2015 , 03.53PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Sri Lanka 's Kumar Dharmasena was on Friday selected to officiate the final of the cricket World Cup on Sunday , thereby becoming the first person to feature in the quadrennial tournament final as both an umpire and player . English umpire Richard Kettleborough , rated as the world 's best umpire for the past two years , was unsurprisingly chosen to be in the centre at the Melbourne Cricket Ground ( MCG ) , reports the Sydney Morning Herald . Four-time Cup champions Australia will take on maiden finalists New Zealand in the summit clash . That he will be joined by Dharmasena , who won the International Cricket Council ( ICC ) umpires ' award in 2011 , was a surprise - not because of the Sri Lankan 's general standard of officiating but because of his role that saw England 's James Taylor stranded two runs short of a maiden century for England . After the leg-before dismissal of Taylor , made by presiding umpire Aleem Dar was overruled by the video umpire , Dharmasena independently called for a review of an incident that happened a few seconds later. England attempted to run a leg-bye and Jimmy Anderson was run-out at the striker 's end by a direct hit from Glenn Maxwell . On advice from video umpire Billy Bowden that confirmed Anderson was short of his ground , the paceman was given out , which ended England 's innings and , with it , the match . Taylor 's displeasure with the decision was later vindicated , with the ICC confirming the ball should have been considered dead from the moment Dar raised his finger , which occurred before Maxwell 's throw that ran out Anderson . " The ball should have been deemed dead when the batsman ( James Taylor ) was given out leg before wicket. No further runs or dismissals were possible , " the ICC later conceded in a statement . " The PCT ( Playing Control Team ) spoke to the England team management and acknowledges that the game ended incorrectly and an error was made. " None of the match officials involved in the match faced any penalty for the blunder . The elevation of Dharmasena , 43 , comes 19 years after he played in Sri Lanka 's 1996 triumph against Australia . South African Marais Erasmus has been appointed video umpire , with Englishman Ian Gould to serve as fourth umpire. The ICC 's most senior match referee , Sri Lankan Ranjan Madugalle , will fill that role on Sunday . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
