Dhoni knows how to win World Cups : Michael Vaughan The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Mar 24 , 2015 , 05.54PM IST One can not rule out the Dhoni-factor in the semifinal , Vaughan said. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Former England captain Michael Vaughan on Tuesday said that though both India and Australia have a 50-50 chance , one can not rule out the Mahendra Singh Dhoni-factor when the two teams clash in the World Cup semifinal at the Sydney Cricket Ground ( SCG ) on Thursday . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " There is something about Dhoni and World Cups. Dhoni knows how to win World Cups and that goes quite a long way. What he did after the tri-series is remarkable. I really do think it is a 50-50 caller. India has got the power and finesse , " Vaughan was quoted as saying by bcci.tv . The former right-handed batsman said the SCG pitch could suit the Indian slow bowlers . " India would fancy themselves playing at the SCG. It will take some spin. ( Ravichandran ) Ashwin is getting the ball to shape through the air which is very important to his style of bowling , " said the 40-year-old . " They are looking at what South Africa 's Imran Tahir did in the quarterfinal and it will come down to certain players winning their opening battles , from ( David ) Warner and ( Aaron ) Finch to Shikhar Dhawan and Rohit Sharma winning the opening battle against Mitchell Starc. Come Thursday , it will be about which of the teams plays better. " Vaughan also stressed on the batting armoury of both the sides . " The Indian team has a wonderful array of batsmen who have been there and done that. They have got a couple of young players like ( Ajinkya ) Rahane who I believe is the best technician among Indian players. He plays the quicks and spin as well as anybody. With MSD , they have a firecracker , " he said . The former cricketer said that if all-rounder Glenn Maxwell gets going it will be tough for the defending champions to stop him . " For the Aussies , Maxwell has had a wonderful tournament and has the ability to hit the ball 360 degrees from ball one. If Maxwell has his day , India ca n't win because he would score 100 in 50 balls. MS can do the similar but it 's generally down to the foundation , " he said . The Englishman added that skipper Michael Clarke and Smith will be crucial as they are the best players of spin in the Australian side . " Smith and Clarke will be crucial for Australia as these two are the best players of spin and one of them at least will have to get a decent score , " he said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
