Downton backs Moores after England 's woeful World Cup exit The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 9 , 2015 , 11.20PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 LONDON : England and Wales Cricket Board chief Paul Downton is standing behind under-fire coach Peter Moores in the aftermath of England 's embarrassing World Cup exit . Moores ' men crashed out of the tournament in the group stages on Monday as a humiliating 15-run defeat to Bangladesh saw England hit a new low in a woeful World Cup campaign that has included four defeats in five matches . Moores ' tactics and team selection have been widely criticised since he was appointed for his second spell as England head coach 11 months ago , but Downton insists the former Lancashire coach remains the right man for the job . " I have every faith in Peter Moores , " Downton told Sky Sports. " Part of the reason for appointing Peter Moores was he is a very experienced coach . " Whoever took this job was going to have a really difficult job. " We had a side that broke up in Australia , we had to introduce new players and part of dealing with it - which was obviously going to be pressurised - was that experience . " We 're very early into an appointment. Much as we 'd like to change things instantly , it takes time . " Look at New Zealand and where they were with their one-day cricket two years ago - it takes time to bring things through . " We had a very successful team between 2009 and 2013 , we have to rebuild again . " There are no shortcuts. We have to back our players , invest in them and in time we will be back there again. " One criticism regularly levelled at England is they lack the aggression and flexibility to compete with the top sides , but Downton says the players need more time to develop . " We 've tried to be much more aggressive , " Downton said. " What has struck me has been how much influence T20 is having on one-day cricket and a lot of our players do n't play much T20 cricket so that is clearly something we have to look at . " The big message from this World Cup has been you have to attack , you have to look to get wickets and you attack with the bat . " We have a talented bunch of players but they 're very inexperienced. " England 's World Cup misery adds to a disappointing 12 months that includes just one series victory in six across all formats under Moores . " It 's hugely disappointing , I feel very sorry for the fans who have travelled and the fans who have followed it on the TV because they 've clearly under-performed , " Downton said . " This is not just about this tournament , this goes back to 1992. It goes wider than this group of players , it goes back to a domestic structure , and putting an emphasis in this country more on Test cricket than one-day cricket and that has to change. " Former England captain Nasser Hussain believes it is England 's players who must take responsibility for the team 's failures . " There have been some mistakes made in this tournament but every time we have the same thing. David Lloyd , Ashley Giles , Duncan Fletcher - the moment we 're knocked out , the coach goes , " Hussain said . " First of all , the players need to look at themselves and take responsibility. " Andrew Strauss tasted World Cup disappointment as England captain in 2011 and he conceded the current generation just are n't up to the required standard . " The truth is we 're not good enough , " Strauss said. " From one to 11 , we have n't got the players that can compete with a top team . " We could n't compete with Bangladesh , and certainly ca n't compete with Australia , South Africa and these teams. " Exiled England batsman Kevin Pietersen , a long-time critic of Moores , tweeted : " I CAN NOT BELIVE THIS ! I JUST CAN NOT ! But , well done Bangladesh ! You deserved it ! . " DO NOT SAY WE HAVE N'T PRIORITISED ODI CRICKET ! We played a back to back Ashes to make sure England played 6 months of ODI 's before this WC ! " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
