World Cup 2015 : Bangladesh knock out England to set up likely clash with India The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 9 , 2015 , 05.21PM IST Bangladesh paceman Mashrafe Mortaza ( R ) celebrates his wicket of England 's batsman Joe Root during the Pool A match at the Adelaide Oval. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Bangladesh on Monday knocked out England from the cricket World Cup with a 15-run win to set up a likely clash with defending champions India in the quarterfinals of the mega event . Scorecard | Points Table Put into bat , Bangladesh rode on Mahmudullah 's resilient century to post 275 for seven and then put up a spirited bowling show to pack England for 260 runs in 48.3 overs in a thrilling Pool A contest . Bangladesh , who romped into the quarterfinals of the World Cup for the first time , are likely to take on India in the quarterfinals , provided that they finish fourth in the group and the title holders expectedly finish at the top of Pool B . Man of the Match Mahmudullah ( 103 ) struck his first ODI ton to lift Bangladesh from 99 for four to a respectable score after stitching a crucial 141-run fifth-wicket partnership with Mushfiqur Rahim ( 89 ) . England medium pacers James Anderson and Chris Jordan bagged two wickets each . England started the chase on a decent note even after opener Moeen Ali ( 19 ) was run out but the top-order batsmen failed to convert their starts and let go of the advantage in the must-win game . Bangladesh bowlers , ably led by Robel Hossian ( 4-53 ) , struck at crucial junctures to put England in trouble . Ian Bell tried to do the rescue act with a hard-working 63 but Hossian got the opener caught behind in the 27th over . The middle-order wobbled only to be held by Jos Buttler ( 65 ) , who fought hard but his seventh ODI fifty was not enough to save England 's fading fortunes . Chris Woakes ( 42 not out ) battled hard till the end but got little help from the tail as Hossain cleaned up the final two batsman with good seam movement . Hossian got good support from captain and pace spearhead Mashrafe Mortaza ( 2-48 ) and Taskin Ahmed ( 2-59 ) . Buttler and Woakes , with their seventh-wicket 75-run partnership , looked like taking the Three Lions to a win at one stage , but Bangladesh were just unstoppable on a day that belonged to them . Bangladesh players celebrate their win over England , knocking them out of the World Cup in Adelaide. ( Reuters Photo ) Mahmudullah bettered Bangladesh 's previous individual best of 95 made by Tamim Iqbal against Scotland earlier the tournament . He , along with Mushfiqur Rahim , who smashed his way to 89 off 77 balls , lifted Bangladesh from a sloppy start by adding 141 runs for the fifth wicket . The partnership was another World Cup record for the Bangladesh side . Paceman Anderson had provided England a fiery start by removing both the openers -- Imrul Kayes ( 2 ) and Tamim Iqbal ( 2 ) -- in his first two overs but the following batsmen showed a lot determination . Mahmudullah first shared a 86-run stand with Soumya Sarkar ( 40 ) to stabilise the innings and then combined with Rahim to stitch up a decent total . Mahmudullah 's 103 came off 138 balls with seven hits to the fence and two over it and Rahim punished the British bowlers by eight fours and a six . Bangladesh could have scored more but Jordan bowled a fantastic penultimate over in which he gave away just three runs and took a wicket too . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
