Euphoric Indian fans hail win over foes Pakistan The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 15 , 2015 , 08.44PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Jubilant fans spilled out onto India 's streets and let off firecrackers after the national team defeated bitter rivals Pakistan in their opening World Cup match in Adelaide on Sunday . Read Also : India-Pakistan clash lights up Twitter Scores of euphoric university students gathered in the heart of the capital New Delhi as soon as the last Pakistan wicket fell , dancing and waving the saffron and green Indian flag . " I love you , Virat Kohli , it 's the best gift that you could give India , " said Shreya Sharma , 21 , planting a kiss on a blow-up poster of the Indian vice-captain . Prime Minister Narendra Modi , who had called his Pakistani counterpart Nawaz Sharif to wish him luck before the match , took to Twitter to congratulate the team . " Congrats Team India. Well played. We are all very proud of you , " he tweeted . For legions of supporters in both India and Pakistan , a win over the old enemy is almost as important as winning the tournament. " The pressure is now off India , now they can relax for the rest of the tournament , " S. Shriram , a software professional said . " For me , India has won the World Cup today ! " Earlier in the day a photo trending on Twitter showed guests at a wedding craning their necks to watch the match live on a giant screen . On Saturday special prayers were held at a famous temple in Mumbai where fans chanted hymns in front of a replica of the World Cup Trophy -- kept beside Ganesha , the Hindu god of luck and fortune . However , some Indian fans were left seething after their Air India flight to Sydney was delayed by eight hours - meaning they missed the game altogether -- according to local newspaper reports . Enraged fans held heated arguments and engaged in " fisticuffs " with besieged airline staff who blamed the delay on a shortage of cabin crew . " AI ( Air India ) has killed the World Cup for us. We had a connecting flight to Adelaide. We wo n't get to see it even on TV now , " one passenger said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
