High-flying Kiwis roll over Sri Lanka The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 15 , 2015 , 01.55PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : The sun peeped through the clouds for a while and saw happy faces all around the pristine Hagley Oval on a cold Valentine 's Day . The crowd had every reason to be ecstatic - New Zealand had lived up to their pre-tournament promise and notched up a thumping 98-run victory in the World Cup opener , that too over former champions Sri Lanka . Every single unit of this well-oiled New Zealand machine looked perfectly in place right from the beginning. Barring a dropped catch in the 37th over by Ross Taylor at first slip , the Kiwis did n't put a foot wrong in this thoroughly professional display . It started with the opening partnership of Brendon McCullum ( 65 off 49 balls ) and Martin Guptill ( 49 off 62 balls ) , which put up 111 in 15.5 overs under overcast conditions. Despite the conditions and two new balls , the Sri Lankan pacers failed to move it around on a pitch that did n't have a blade of grass on it. Spearhead Lasith Malinga , coming back from an injury , was much too wayward and McCullum did n't need a second invitation. He was equally fluent both off his front and backfoot , taking a heavy toll of the Lankan bowling. He could easily have gone on to make a century but was dismissed trying to accelerate , caught at long-off off left-arm spinner Rangana Herath . By then , the platform had been set up for New Zealand and it was a matter of keeping it going for the extremely resourceful middle-order. After Kane Williamson and Grant Elliot had done their bit , it was left to Corey Anderson ( 75 off 46 balls ) to give the Kiwi innings a push towards the end. He was dropped once , and the allrounder made the most of it. He made room for himself and kept tonking the Lankan bowlers , who clearly struggled with the four-fielder rule . The Lankan chase started on a promising note till the wily old fox Daniel Vettori came on to bowl. He pushed one a little slower through the air , it stopped on opener Tillakaratne Dilshan and he ended up giving a return catch to Vettori ( 2-34 ) . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
