I can be frontline spinner for Aussies against India : Maxwell The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 22 , 2015 , 06.46PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : As the SCG wicket is expected to help the spinners , Glenn Maxwell says he was ready to play the role of frontline spinner for Australia in World Cup semifinal against India . The semifinal between India and Australia will be played at the same wicket where seven Sri Lankan wickets fell to spinners against South Africa in the quarterfinal . Australia do not have a regular spinner in their ranks as they heavily rely on their pacers , led by Mitchell Starc , while India have R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja . " I 've taken a couple of wickets this tournament which has been nice , and I feel like I 've been doing the job that Michael Clarke has been asking of me whenever I 've come to the crease , " Maxwell said . " I had a chat to John Davison ( Australian spin bowling coach ) last night and he said my shape was looking really good. It 's starting to become a bit more of a frontline spinner 's action as well and not so much just a run-stopping option but it 's actually becoming semi-threatening , compared to just going and putting the ball on a tee , " Maxwell was quoted as saying by Australian media . Maxwell , who was used quite well by his skipper in the quarter-final against Pakistan , said his in the recent past he has developed into a good spin option for his side . " I think after that UAE series against Pakistan last year I worked out a few things with my bowling. As soon as I came back to Australia I worked really hard on it and I felt like I was starting to get signs of what I wanted to do with my off-spin and what other coaches had been looking for me to do as well which was to get that drop and a bit more energy on the ball , " he said . " Coming from a fast bowler 's background growing up I have a long bowling stride for an off-spinner and I 've been trying to shorten that but still have the same energy through the crease. It 's been a long work in progress , I 've had to change my action about six or seven times since the academy which has been frustrating but hopefully with this change there 's only an upward curve now . " I 've been working with everyone. I have a chat with whoever wants to listen basically , whoever can put up with me for the longest , " he said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
