ICC accepts Mustafa Kamal 's resignation The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Apr 1 , 2015 , 06.45PM IST Mustafa Kamal speaks to the media in Dhaka. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 DUBAI : The International Cricket Council on Wednesday accepted the resignation of its disgruntled president Mustafa Kamal , who quit the position after being denied the honour of presenting the World Cup winners ' trophy . READ MORE : ICC president Mustafa Kamal quits , says 'it has become Indian Cricket Council' " The International Cricket Council ( ICC ) today confirmed that Mr Mustafa Kamal has tendered his resignation as the ICC president with immediate effect , " the ICC said in a statement . In his resignation letter to the ICC chief executive David Richardson , Kamal said he was stepping down on personal grounds and offered his apologies to all associated with the ICC , while adding that he had no complaints to make against anyone . " Let the game of cricket under the leadership of ICC touch the hearts and minds of every cricket lover , " he was quoted as saying by the ICC . The ICC Board will now consider the vacant position of the ICC president at its forthcoming meeting in Dubai April on 15 and 16 . Kamal was livid at not being given the opportunity to hand out the World Cup trophy to champions Australia and had left the Melbourne Cricket Ground even before the final finished. Instead , Srinivasan handed over the trophy to Australian skipper Michael Clarke . Kamal was reportedly denied the honours after he blamed poor umpiring for Bangladesh 's comprehensive loss to India in the quarterfinals. The ICC was forced to issue a statement to reject his charges . The Bangladesh Cricket Board president launched an extraordinary attack on ICC chairman N Srinivasan after returning to the country . Calling him " rotten and controversial " , Kamal said the ICC could well now be called the " Indian Cricket Council " . Kamal was reportedly denied the honours after he blamed poor umpiring for Bangladesh 's comprehensive loss to India in the quarterfinals. The ICC was forced to issue a statement to reject his charges . This reportedly infuriated Srinivasan , who was n't amused after hearing Kamal 's comments on record. While the former BCCI president did n't say anything in public , he did express his displeasure to the ICC board members and questioned as to how can Kamal pinpoint on one wrong umpiring decision and take it as an isolated case . Kamal claimed he was asked to withdraw his comments . " I will not withdraw the statement because it was the sentiment of 160 million people. Then they told me , if you ca n't submit an apology or withdraw the statement , you ca n't present the trophy , " he said . According to an amendment in the memorandum and articles of association of the ICC which was unanimously approved by Full Council in January 2015 , it appeared that the job of handing over of trophies at global events rests on the ICC president . According to clause 3.3 ( B ) : " With effect from the 2014 Conference Close Date , the President shall act solely as chairman at Conference and Special Meetings and be responsible for presenting trophies at global competitions and cricket events held under the aegis of the Council. For the avoidance of doubt , with effect from the 2014 Conference Close Date , the President will no longer act as chairman of the Executive Board or as chairman of any Committee or Sub-Committee. " The ICC president is , however , the ceremonial head while executive powers lie with the chairman. However , till 1996 , the World Cup has been handed by various people and not necessarily the head of ICC . " The main reason for my resignation is that I ca n't work with those who can act unconstitutionally and unlawfully , " he said . Kamal had made a stinging criticism about " umpiring bias " during Bangladesh 's loss to India. In that match , India 's Rohit Sharma was not given out to a Rubel Hossain delivery which apparently looked a " touch and go " decision . He insisted that he had not spoken against any country but said he was denied the opportunity of presenting the World Cup trophy for " speaking the truth " . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
