India vs Bangladesh : ICC chief blasts own president over 'fix ' claims The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 20 , 2015 , 02.01PM IST David Richardson defended Dar and Gould from all accusations of biased officiating. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : International Cricket Council ( ICC ) chief executive David Richardson on Friday slammed his organization 's Bangladeshi president for questioning the integrity of umpires , saying allegations of fixing were " unfortunate " and " baseless " . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Mustafa Kamal claimed decisions made by officials during Bangladesh 's 109-run loss to India in their World Cup quarterfinal in Melbourne on Thursday seemed to have been " pre-arranged " . Kamal was angry that India 's Rohit Sharma , who top-scored with 137 , had not been given not out on 90 when he was caught at deep mid-wicket off the bowling of Rubel Hossain , only for umpires Aleem Dar and Ian Gould to signal a no-ball for what appeared to be a legitimate waist-high delivery . But Richardson defended Dar and Gould from all accusations of biased officiating . " The ICC has noted Mr Mustafa Kamal 's comments , which are very unfortunate but made in his personal capacity. As an ICC president , he should have been more considerate in his criticism of ICC match officials , whose integrity can not be questioned , " said Richardson . " The no-ball decision was a 50-50 call. The spirit of the game dictates that the umpire 's decision is final and must be respected , " the former South Africa wicket-keeper added . " Any suggestion that the match officials had 'an agenda ' or did anything other than perform to the best of their ability are baseless and are refuted in the strongest possible terms , " Richardson insisted . Kamal said he was considering quitting his post in protest . " As the ICC president , whatever I have to say I will say it in next meeting. It could happen that maybe I will resign , " Kamal said in comments aired on Bangladeshi television . " There was no quality in the umpiring. It looked like they took the field after it ( the outcome ) was pre-arranged , " he alleged . Bangladeshi fans were also furious at the dismissal of star batsman Mohammad Mahmudullah who was caught close to the boundary rope . Shikhar Dhawan makes his first attempt at a catch to dismiss Bangladesh 's Mahmudullah during the Cricket World Cup quarterfinal match. ( AP Photo ) The match was the biggest in the history of the cricket-mad nation , marking the first time that Bangladesh had made the World Cup quarterfinals . Many fans wept only after the defeat while protestors also burned an effigy of Dar , who hails from Bangladesh 's great rival Pakistan . Kamal , whose position has been largely ceremonial since India 's Narayanaswami Srinivasan became the body 's chairman last year , said the ICC 's acronym seemed to stand for the Indian Cricket Council . " I can not represent the Indian Cricket Council. If someone has imposed a result on us , in that case no one can accept it , " added Kamal , who is a minister in the Bangladeshi government . Meanwhile the Indian cricket board said Kamal should have made his feelings known to his fellow administrators before airing them in public . " I wish he could have taken all these issues on the ICC platform during the ICC meetings , " said Anurag Thakur , the Indian board secretary . " The ( reality ) is we 've won against Bangladesh and India has won all the previous matches in the league stage. I think it 's time to move ahead...we can discuss and debate these issues in the next meeting. " Bangladesh 's exit dominated the country 's front-page headlines on Friday with , many commentators blaming shoddy umpiring for the defeat . " Tigers fall to controversial calls , " read the lead in the Dhaka Tribune , while the headline of the mass-circulation Bengali daily Kaler Kantha said : " The dream run ends in umpiring scandal. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
