ICC should go back to 1987 Cup format : More The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Apr 1 , 2015 , 09.10PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Former India stumper Kiran More wants the next ICC Cricket World Cup in 2019 be held on the same format as the 1987 edition organized in the sub-continent for the first time in which he also figured as a player . " It ( the just concluded edition ) was a disappointing World Cup. There were only two or three close games overall. Everyone knew who will enter the quarterfinals although England did not make it due to their own folly , " More said after a training session of the Mumbai Indians squad at the Wankhede Stadium . England were upstaged by Bangladesh in the race to make the last eight from two pools in the showpiece event co-hosted by eventual champions Australia and runners-up New Zealand . " I would like the 1987 format to be adopted again , " said the former chief selector ( 2004-06 ) , referring to the two-group programme with the top two in each pool advancing to the criss-cross semifinals that was in force in the 1987 mega event that was jointly hosted by India , Sri Lanka and Pakistan . The next World Cup is to be hosted by England . More , who is the wicket keeping consultant of MI , was also of the opinion that the use of two different balls from both ends be dispensed with along with the rule by which at least five fielders need to be stationed inside the 30-yard circle even during non-power play phases of an innings . " The five-fielder rule should go. Also only one ball should be used instead of two. The reverse swing has gone out of the equation now. As per the old rule the ball change used to happen after 34 overs , " he pointed out . The 52-year-old from Vadodara , who played in 49 Tests and 94 ODIs , was also of the view that even in T20 games the boundary lines should not be placed less than 75 yards from the wicket . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
