ICC World Cup 2015 : Australia vs New Zealand - who 's saying what The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 29 , 2015 , 03.52PM IST Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Who 's saying what on Twitter about Sunday 's World Cup final between Australia and New Zealand : " @ cricketworldcup. @ MCG. @ ICC Forget the duck , Starc is now more popular than the Easter Bunny in AUS # AUSvNZ # CWC15pic.twitter.com/7D1y14KncR. " - Google AustraliaNZ on Mitchell Starc 's trending popularity . " You beauty ! ! ! ! " - Australian fast bowler Shaun Tait on Mitchell Starc 's first over dismissal of Brendon McCullum for a duck . " Starc produces the best ..against the best ..on the best stage... BIG ! ! ! ! ! ! ! " - Ex-Sri Lanka international Russel Arnold . " Boooooooommmmm ! ! ! ! Wow , what a start that is for Australia..... Well done Mr Starc , just awesome..... " - Aussie spin great Shane Warne . " Back to bed for me now McCullum is out ! ! Script is written for Clarke to win it now ! ! # CWC15. " - Yorkshire county cricketer Will Rhodes . " Elliott has achieved the highest score by a South African in a World Cup final. ( By getting off the mark. ) " - Sydney journalist Richard Hinds . " What a catch by Haddin. Catches win matches.. and.. bang bang go the Aussies ! ! Game changer. " - Arnold again as Ross Taylor falls to a fine one-handed catch by the Australian keeper . " What this World Cup has clearly shown is that a fast , full and straight Yorker is a very good delivery ! " - Former Australian seamer Jason Gillespie . " @ mstarc56 & @ MitchJohnson398 showing the old fashion yorker is still very much in vogue. # CWC15Final. " - Ex-Australian all-rounder Tom Moody in full agreement . " A duck for the former Australian Luke Ronchi. " - Fox Sports revels in the Kiwi batsman 's misery . " Bugger. " - New Zealand team 's official website . " Great toss to lose as always good to bowl first in big finals... # justsaying ha ha # CWC15Final. " - Former Australia batsman Damien Martyn . " Have to say this @ CricketAus bowling attack is outstanding...... The reason why they will be World Champions... " - Former England skipper Michael Vaughan . " Southee and Boult shared 10 wickets to bowl Malaysia out for 47 in the 2008 ICC U19 World Cup. They need a performance like that today. " - Malaysia Cricket Board . " As I mentioned who ever will win AUS vs IND semis that team will win the cup. Australia doing it in style at MCG. " - Former India spinner Harbhajan Singh . " Great 50 @ MClarke23 you are a champion. " - Former Australia batsman Damien Martyn . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
