ICC World Cup 2015 : India vs Pakistan - India bat first , go with two spinners against Pakistan The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Feb 15 , 2015 , 08.31AM IST MS Dhoni shares a lighter moment with Virat Kolhi during a training session in Adelaide. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Reigning champions India won the toss and will bat first in their much-anticipated World Cup Pool B opener against Pakistan at the Adelaide Oval on Sunday . Scorecard India skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni decided to go with two spinners for the clash in front of a sell-out crowd bathed in sunshine at the Adelaide Oval . All-rounders Ravindra Jadeja and Ravi Ashwin will provide the spin after the pace attack of Umesh Yadav , Mohit Sharma and Mohammed Shami have had a crack at Pakistan with the new ball . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " We 'll have a bat first , it looks like a good wicket , " Dhoni said to huge cheers from an already lively crowd . " It 's slightly on the dry side but I feel it will still be a good wicket. Maybe it might slow down later , but not a lot. " Misbah-ul-Haq said he too would have batted first had he won the toss as Pakistan chase their first World Cup win over their neighbours and fierce rivals in six attempts . Pakistan will line-up pretty much as expected except at wicketkeeper where Umar Akmal , who impressed in the warm-up win over England last week , displaces Sarfraz Ahmed . " He 's really in good form and we really wanted to play a fifth bowler so that 's why we had to sacrifice Sarfraz , " Misbah said . " We have a young team and this is a great chance to show they can perform on the big stage. " The match has been billed as a " war without guns " and some believe it could attract the biggest ever TV audience for a cricket match with more than a billion tuning in . " India-Pakistan World Cup game , nothing gets better than this , " Dhoni added . Teams : India ( Playing XI ) : Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Virat Kohli , Suresh Raina , Ajinkya Rahane , MS Dhoni ( w/c ) , Ravindra Jadeja , Ravichandran Ashwin , Mohit Sharma , Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav Pakistan ( Playing XI ) : Ahmed Shehzad , Younis Khan , Haris Sohail , Misbah-ul-Haq ( c ) , Sohaib Maqsood , Umar Akmal ( w ) , Shahid Afridi , Wahab Riaz , Yasir Shah , Sohail Khan , Mohammad Irfan Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
