ICC World Cup 2015 : Ireland shock West Indies by 4 wickets The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 16 , 2015 , 11.24AM IST Paul Stirling , right , sweeps the ball in front of West Indies 's Denesh Ramdin during their Cricket World Cup pool B match. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NELSON ( New Zealand ) : Ireland caused the first upset of the World Cup when an audacious 92 by Paul Stirling paved the way for a four-wicket win over the West Indies at Nelson 's Saxton Oval on Monday . Scorecard Stirling stood in a match-defining 106-run stand with Ed Joyce for the second wicket as Ireland chased down a 305-run target with 25 balls to spare . Stirling cracked his 92 off 84 balls , Joyce scored 84 off 67 and Niall O'Brien chimed in with an unbeaten 79 off 60 deliveries as they cashed in on wayward West Indies bowling . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 It was Ireland 's first win over the West Indies in six official matches and the first victory at this World Cup achieved by a team batting second . The 12th-ranked Irish paid scant regard to the high-profile West Indians and enhanced their own reputation as giant-killers after beating other top-tier nations England and Pakistan in the previous two World Cups . The victorious finish was a fitting reward for their spirited start to the match when they opted to bowl and rapidly reduced the West Indies to 87-5 . Chris Gayle again failed to fire as spinner George Dockrell carved through the upper order before a dashing century by Lendl Simmons and a personal-best 89 from Darren Sammy put some backbone into the West Indies innings . Their power batting lifted the West Indies to what should have been a respectable 304 but they lacked the discipline in their bowling to defend the total . Captain Jason Holder opened with a first ball that raced wide of slips to the boundary to give Ireland an immediate five runs from extras which started Stirling and William Porterfield on their way to a 71-run first wicket stand . With Porterfield 's dismissal for 23 , the left-handed Joyce joined right-hander Stirling to continue piling on the pressure . Stirling 's dismissal , caught behind off a Marlon Samuels delivery , saw O'Brien arrive to up the tempo further with the textbook formula of looking for an early boundary each over and accumulating what runs were on offer afterwards . The West Indies were powerless to contain the onslaught , going through eight bowlers , as the Irish batsmen clobbered six sixes and 34 fours . Joyce , on 42 , was dropped by Darren Bravo when he belted Holder towards the boundary , and O'Brien was on 38 when he skied a Jerome Taylor delivery and Holder dropped what should have been a regulation catch . Taylor was the most successful West Indies bowler with three for 71. Ireland started the day in the best possible fashion , winning the toss and ripping out the West Indies premier batsmen . Dockrell , who finished with three for 50 , claimed the prized wickets of Gayle ( 36 ) , Samuels ( 21 ) and Ramdin ( one ) in the space of just eight deliveries . It was another disappointment for Gayle who has not passed 50 since playing Bangladesh in August and the last of his 21 centuries was against Sri Lanka in June 2013 . Simmons and Sammy gave the innings respectability with a West Indies sixth-wicket record stand of 154 Simmons -- whose uncle Phil , the former West Indies batsman , is Ireland 's coach -- was eventually dismissed in the last over for 104 , his second one-day international century . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
