ICC World Cup : Inspired Virat Kohli finds way to perform on big stage The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 16 , 2015 , 08.59AM IST Virat Kohli celebrates as he reaches 100 runs against Pakistan during the Pool B World Cup match at the Adelaide Oval. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 Virat Kohli flaunted his big-match potential and heralded his return to form in India 's World Cup opener on Sunday. At an emotionally charged , overflowing Adelaide Oval on Sunday , Kohli rode on the adrenaline and left behind memories of his poor run in the recent tri-series to record his 22nd ODI ton . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Kohli is likely to place this knock at the top of his list too , even though , by the batsman 's own lofty standards , this was a more restrained , more calculating effort. " This is probably one of the biggest wins of my career so far , " the Delhi batsman said after the win over Pakistan. " This is an amazing way to begin the World Cup. ( This was a ) big game against Pakistan and it was an amazing fight. " Offering a peek into his unique methods of preparation , Kohli , the Man of the Match , said , " The last couple of days have been tough. There were too many people in the hotel getting worked up m about the game. You just have to stay in your own little space. I hate to lose and I play passionately. I like the pressure and expectations. The support has been magnificent. It was too loud at times for MS ( Dhoni ) to catch our attention. " Asked about his innings , which was more about steady accumulation rather than a dazzling array of boundaries , Kohli said he was merely performing the part assigned to him by the team management. " We have discussed the roles of each and every player. My role in the team is to bat through the innings. The power hitters can play around me knowing that one end is secure. The way Shikhar Dhawan and Suresh Raina batted today is commendable. " The team management , in fact , would have heaved a huge sigh of relief after Kohli 's effort. In the tri-series matches , Virat was unable to even get into double figures . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
