Ideas flow at BCCI conclave The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Mar 16 , 2015 , 11.31AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : As a gruelling domestic season heads towards the business end with the Irani Trophy and Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy slated for later this month , the BCCI captains and coaches ' conclave was held here on Sunday. The meeting which was attended by state captains like Harbhajan Singh ( Punjab ) , Mohammed Kaif ( Andhra ) and Abhinav Mukund ( Tamil Nadu ) recommended a number of changes to the existing domestic system . As the IPL auction is held in the middle of the Ranji Trophy season , a majority felt that the one-day competiton and the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 tournament should be conducted before the auctions to help players showcase their wares in the shorter formats. The captains also wanted the number of matches in these formats increased and turf balls be introduced in one-dayers . " There is an overall thought to make the domestic T20 tournament more relevant and conduct it prior to the IPL auction , " said BCCI technical committee chairman Anil Kumble who attended the meeting . With the ball keeping low at many venues across the country , spinners rue the lack of bounce on those tracks. This issue was also put put on the table alongside a recommendation for a spinners ' academy along the lines of the MRF Pace Foundation in Chennai . With underprepared pitches being the talking point during many matches this season , one of the ideas mooted was the involvement of players of stature in monitoring pitches in their respective zones. Another issue which was raised by most team representatives was the quality of umpiring. In the recently concluded Ranji season , a number of teams felt they were robbed of crucial points due to poor umpiring . Teams from up north expressed their concern regarding the scheduling of the homes games during winter , which results in truncated and sometimes abandoned matches. J&K coach Sunil Joshi said , " There are instances where only an over or two are played in an entire day , or the third and fourth days are called off. So one of the suggestions from us was to start the season in October and play the first play four home ties in the north and then the rest can all be away matches. That way we can get more playing hours. " A few state units also sought more rest between Ranji league games and suggested 95 overs per day. " The captains and coaches raised a couple of key issues including the scheduling of matches , quality of balls and various formats. They are happy in the way it ( domestic season ) is conducted. The best of their recommendations will be discussed in the Technical Committee meeting which is scheduled to be held in Kolkata later this month , " said Kumble . Delhi team unrepresented Although the conclave was held in the Capital , Delhi went unrepresented. Coach Vijay Dahiya had expressed his inability to attend the meeting and informed the DDCA but skipper Gautam Gambhir was conspicuous by his absence. Meanwhile , former international pacer and UP coach Venkatesh Prasad , who too missed the meeting , said he was not informed of the same . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
