I have n't retired from any format as yet : Chris Gayle The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 21 , 2015 , 08.35PM IST Chris Gayle certainly wants to feature in next year 's World T20. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 WELLINGTON : A recurring back injury will certainly keep Chris Gayle out of the upcoming home Test series against England , but the destructive West Indies batsman insists that he is not retiring from any format of the game . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 West Indies on Saturday bowed out of the ICC World Cup 2015 after losing to New Zealand by 143 runs even after Gayle hit a 33-ball 61. Gayle , who has been struggling with a back problem , missed a couple of games in the quadrennial extravaganza but certainly wants to feature in next year 's World T20 . " Definitely want to play the T20 World Cup next year for West Indies , there 's no doubt about that , " Gayle said in an interview . " I 've got a few concerns and a few injury ( cases ) to try and solve. I 'll give myself some time and hopefully look back at it and see how well I can actually progress for West Indies cricket at this point in time . " I 'm actually out of the Test series , the back wo n't hold up for that format at this point in time. But I have n't retired from any format as yet. As I go on I will keep informing WICB about my progress in the future with West Indies cricket , " he added . Gayle , whose record individual World Cup score of 215 against Zimbabwe was surpassed by an unbeaten 237 by Kiwi opener Martin Guptill , said that the Caribbean side did well to reach the knockouts . " I thought we played some great cricket. Yes we missed [ Dwayne Bravo and Kieron Pollard ] , but I thought we did well. We had a good all-round team , and the guys played some crucial innings for us , " Gayle said . " It was a situation where you look at it , we reached a quarterfinal , anything could have happened , you just need two good games. " Chasing a mammoth 394 for a win in the last-eight encounter , the West indies were bowled out for 250 in 30.3 overs but Gayle still took out some positives from the loss . " You chase 390 runs , psychologically it will affect your batters , but if we actually had a better plan or structure chasing these sort of targets , it could have helped us in some sort of way . " [ We were bowled out for ] 250 with 19 overs to go , that goes to tell how dangerous we can be , but just to get the mindset right and get a hold of everything and the players to actually believe we can make these things happen. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
