Imposter posing as ex-Pakistan cricketer appears on BBC as expert The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 15 , 2015 , 03.51PM IST Nadeem Alam posed as Nadeem Abbasi to give his " expert " opinion on BBC. ( BBC TV grab ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : An imposter posing as a former Pakistani cricketer has duped the BBC into paying him to appear as an expert on cricket shows and even took part in a discussion involving ex-Indian batsman Aakash Chopra . Nadeem Alam posed as ex-batsman Nadeem Abbasi to give his " expert " opinion on BBC World News , BBC Asian Network and Radio Five Live , despite only ever playing cricket for his home town of Huddersfield . He even took part in a discussion with former Indian batsman Chopra , who is now retired and regularly appears on cricket chat shows for expert comments . Abbasi , furious about the fraudster 's deceit , has decried the BBC for failing to check its facts . " If I ever find Nadeem Alam , I will punch him in the face for damaging the country 's reputation. The BBC is a big institution and surely they must check ? " he told the Sun newspaper . Abbasi , a wicket-keeper batsman , played in three Tests for Pakistan in 1989 . The 46-year-old , who now coaches a team in Rawalpindi , said that his only media appearance was on Pakistani television during the World Cup in 1996 . Abbasi 's Wikipedia page was also tricked by Alam 's actions , with part of his biography reading : " Abbasi is now a freelance journalist and appears regularly on the BBC Asian Network and Radio Five Live. " Alam , however , told the daily that he is " no longer pretending to be Nadeem Abbasi " . " I like to think I have been talking good cricket , " he said . The BBC has apologised and launched an inquiry. " We apologise to the real Mr. Abbasi and we will be looking seriously into what has happened , " a BBC spokesman said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
