Indians will be tough to beat , concedes Finch The author has posted comments on this article Having played a lot against India and in India ( the IPL ) the last few years , the right-hander batsman Aaron Finch has kept tabs on what 's been brewing inside the opposition 's dressing room. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Of the many imposing thoughts that come to mind on how to tackle Australia in a limited overs game , the foremost is their openers - the stocky David Warner and Aaron Finch - coming out to bat.The kind who grew up hitting home runs ; they strut around with their bats , their sole intention being to swat balls across the parks . READ ALSO : READ ALSO : I 'll sledge India if Warner wo n't , says Johnson Warner and Finch have not yet shown their true colours in this tournament. Finch in particular , whose poor run was commented upon by former Australian skipper Ricky Ponting. It 'll only be good for India if it stays that way . These men of brute strength and immense repute are n't just all brawn.Their brains would have worked out the way India have turned the tables in this tournament after a poor summer here. And one of the strongest aspects in this turnaround in Indian fortunes has been a far more disciplined bowling attack than the one Aussies tackled a couple of months ago . " They 're going to be tough to beat , " said Finch , without battling an eyelid on Tuesday. Having played a lot against India and in India ( the IPL ) the last few years , the right-hander has kept tabs on what 's been brewing inside the opposition 's dressing room . " I think they 've gone with a game plan that seems to be clicking for them. After the Test series , the Tri-series and the warm-up game against us , their plan does n't look to have changed too much in the World Cup. I suppose they 've just spent a lot more time in the country , " Finch said , echoing what his skipper had admitted a couple of days ago . But what Michael Clarke did n't say in as many words last week , Finch expressed candidly : he praised the Indian attack that 's been one of the primary reasons for the team 's good showing in the tournament so far . " They 've got skillful bowlers. ( Mohd ) Shami is bowling well. He 's swinging the ball which is a huge factor I suppose for them at the start of the innings. They 've probably played a lot more cricket here and got used to the conditions , the length you bowl and stuff like that . There 's no rocket science , " said Finch. With the likes of Finch and Warner and a very strong batting in the waiting next , a bigger challenge will test them here this week . Weatherwatch Come Thursday , the Australia-India semifinal in Sydney is likely to be a sunny affair with cyclone Vanautu receding. However , weathermen predict Wednesday to be a wet day which may make the Indians happy as MSD & Co. wo n't want a pitch that has spent a lot of time under covers. The Indians are hoping for a SCG pitch that is all dry so that the spinners get good purchase. Forecasts suggest light winds in the New South Wales capital on the day of the big game . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
