India-Pakistan cricket ties to resume from December : Pakistan envoy The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Mar 17 , 2015 , 08.21PM IST Abdul Basit claims the modalities are being worked out , the venue could either be India or the UAE. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : India and Pakistan are set to resume bilateral cricketing ties in December this year , Pakistan High Commissioner to India Abdul Basit said here Tuesday . " Pakistan and Indian cricket teams , would be playing a bilateral series in December this year. We are working very hard on that , it will be happening after a long gap , " Basit said during an event here . The announcement comes seven days after Pakistan Cricket Board ( PCB ) chief Shaharyar Khan on March 10 met newly elected BCCI secretary Anurag Thakur as part of efforts to resume cricket matches between the two countries . Basit said the venue country could either be India or the UAE . " The modalities are being worked out , the venue could either be India or the UAE , " said Basit calling for both the countries to " aggressively pursue " sporting diplomacy . The two neighbours , whose relations have often turned bitter , played their previous bilateral series in December-January 2012-13 when Pakistan toured India . India and Pakistan boards have inked a binding agreement that provides for the two sides playing 12 Tests , 20 One Day Internationals and 11 twenty20 internationals during a six-year period. The opening engagement is slated to be played in December . Rooting for an India-Pakistan semifinal at the World Cup , Basit called upon people to cheer for his country during its quarterfinal clash against the mighty Australians at Adelaide on Friday . " I want to see India and Pakistan play in semifinal so I urge you all to pray for Pakistan against Australia . " So far as I am concerned I will be cheering for India and similarly the Pakistan High Commission in Bangladesh will be cheering for Bangladesh , " Basit said about team India 's quarterfinal against Bangladesh at Melbourne on Thursday . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
