India vs Australia : At SCG , Aussie XI vs 30,000 Indians ! The author has posted comments on this article K Shriniwas Rao & Manuja Veerappa , TNN | Mar 24 , 2015 , 07.59AM IST Fans celebrate as Indian batsman Rohit Sharma scores his century against Bangladesh during the 2015 Cricket World Cup quarterfinal. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY/NEW DELHI : When captain Michael Clarke leads his Australian side into the Sydney Cricket Ground on Thursday afternoon , he will be greeted by an unfamiliar , even hostile , sight : a sea of blue , instead of the comforting dash of gold and yellow that he is used to during one-day battles . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 As per organizers , Indian fans have cornered 70 % of the tickets available in the 42,000-capacity stadium . Clarke reacted in horror at the prospect of taking on India in an away-atmosphere at home and tweeted an SOS : 'I call on Australian cricket lovers to paint the SCG gold on Thursday. We need your support # goldout. ' His team members promptly retweeted the skipper 's message : it might , of course , be futile as none of the Indians is likely to part with his or her prized possession. Indeed , with Air-India declaring full flights direct to Sydney and other Australian cities till the weekend , there might well be many more Indians than Australians even on the streets . Indian fans do n't just make up the numbers ; they are rated among the noisiest crowds in sport and are sure to outshout the Roos. It 's doubtful the Aussie supporters will resort to their favourite pastime of sledging fielders near the boundary in such a scenario. " We were talking about it at dinner , " said allrounder James Faulkner , referring to crowd support. " The last game we played here felt like that ( an away game ) . The passion of Indian fans for their team is sensational. " I call on all Australian cricket lovers to paint the SCG gold on Thursday. We need your support. # goldout — Michael Clarke ( @ MClarke23 ) March 20 , 2015 Former Australia captain Ian Chappell , however , scoffed at the impact that fans can have on the game. " I do n't know why they are worried about the fans. As a batsman you are cocooning yourself from the crowd , " he told a news channel. " ( I ) understand a fast bowler , like Dennis Lillee used to tell me that the crowd chanting got him going. But as a batsman it 's opposite , you are putting the crowd out of your mind. I do n't know why Clarke 's concerned about the crowd turning up because it should n't make any difference to you. " One of the founder members of Swami Army travelling supporters of Team India - Kartik Ayyalasomayajula - promised a rough time from fans for the Australian team. " It will be very loud , very intimidating. It will feel like an away game for them , " he told a Sydney newspaper . Indian fans planned the assault a long time back. Arjun Raja , a former Karnataka Ranji player , now settled in Perth , booked his match ticket and accommodation in January last year . " As members of WACA , a few of us could buy the tickets well in advance. I wanted to watch the semifinal irrespective of the teams , India versus Australia is a bonus , " the 46-year-old former left-handed bats man said . So , will there be sledging in the stands ? " Not really , " says Raja. " There will be some who will have an extra drink and say something. But generally Australians are aware that people from different countries live here and will support their respective teams. " While Raja makes the trip from Western Australia , Nelson D'Souza and his 14-year-old son Siddhant D'souza will take a 16-hour flight from Dubai , to cheer Dhoni and his men . Nelson , an NRI , living abroad for the past 23 years , followed the Indian team from the knockout stages in 2011 and this year too he is willing to go the distance. " We did n't get accommodation in Sydney for March 25 , so we land on the morning of the match and leave after the match. These are small prices you pay to cheer your team , " explained Nelson who works with an airline company . With most of the hotels and apartments booked months in advance , local Indian families are playing hosts for fellow cricket buffs . Sujay Sharma , a student at Macquarie University , who shares a two bedroom flat with three other students , will have nine others for company over the next couple of days. " I 'm not going for the match because I could n't afford to buy the tickets , which are still available in black. But I have nine friends , two of whom have travelled from Derby for the match. They will be staying with us for 2-3 days. It is going to be a little cramped , but that hardly counts. What matters is India winning , " said the 21-year-old . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
