India vs Australia : Those who made the difference The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Mar 23 , 2015 , 10.51AM IST Virat Kohli and Rohit Sharma have been the batting mainstay against Australia in the recent past. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 Take a look at some of the best in the business , these India and Australia players stood up to be counted when it mattered most . Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 INDIA Rohit Sharma : Rohit entered the record books with his double ton against the Aussies on 2013 Diwali day. The range of his strokes and talent were on full display during the 2013-14 home series as he racked up a double ton , a 100 and a 50-plus score. In the tri-series Down Under , played just before the World Cup , the opener hit a ton against the hosts Virat Kohli : If there is one opposition that gets Virat Kohli all pumped up , it is Australia. The Indian batting mainstay registered two hundreds and two fifty-plus scores against the Aussies when they last toured India in 2013-14. His ability to score at a fast clip without going for the slog makes him a difficult player to contain. After a ton against Pakistan in the opening match , it has been a relatively quiet World Cup for Kohli. He is due for a big one come Thursday . Mohammed Shami : The seamer has been playing the lead role for the pace pack with aplomb. Against Australia back home in 2013-14 , his tight length and subtle swing fetched him eight wickets in four matches. He impressed despite bowling on flat tracks. Skipper MS Dhoni would once again be looking at Shami for early breakthroughs against the power-packed Aussie batting order . AUSTRALIA Michael Clarke : Since making his Test debut against India in 2004 , Clarke has been a thorn in India 's side in all formats. The Aussie captain always leads his team from the front and has a healthy average against India. A master at finding gaps and playing risk-free game , he has a penchant for controlling the innings during the middle overs and guiding Aussie to big totals . Mitchell Johnson : Genuine pace had always been a problem for Indian batting line-up. Mitchell Johnson with his raw pace has exploited the Indians ' susceptibility regularly. His tear-away speed coupled with late swing has more often than not been too hot to handle for the Indian batsmen. Apart from his wicket-taking knack , his just over-five economy rate always spelled trouble for India . James Faulkner : The bowling allrounder has a knack of proving his batting mettle against India. His century in Bengaluru threatened to take away the match in which Rohit Sharma scored his first double ton. The left-armer , who bowls a mean slower one and can move the ball both ways , has eight wickets against India . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
