Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Hasina told captain Mortaza and his boys not to be upset . " There 's nothing to be upset. Everyone has seen how we were made to lose. We will win in the future , " she was quoted as saying by BD News . Bangladeshi cricket fans form a human chain to protest following the quarterfinal match in the ICC World Cup between India and Bangladesh in Dhaka. ( AFP Photo ) His comments came as protests erupted in Bangladesh after the cricketing minnows suffered a 109-run defeat by holders India , due in large part to a blistering knock by Rohit Sharma who top-scored with 137 . Bangladesh were handed a 109-run thrashing by India in the quarterfinal match at the MCG. The only dramatic moment in what was otherwise a clinical Indian performance was when centurion Rohit Sharma got a close no-ball reprieve . Rohit was on an individual score of 90 and team total on 196 in the 40th over bowled by Rubel Hossain when a marginal 'no-ball ' call went in favour of the Indian opener. Rohit went onto add another 47 runs in quick time to help India go past 300-run mark . Ian Gould was the umpire who adjudged Rubel 's full-toss as waist high 'no-ball ' with Rohit being holed out at deep mid-wicket boundary. However , TV replays showed that it was a real touch-and-go situation which could have gone either way . BCB has said it will protest the umpiring in its report to the ICC . Protests erupted in Bangladesh after the loss with fans voicing their displeasure with the umpiring. Bangladesh captain Mortaza had also expressed his displeasure at a few decisions going against his side . International Cricket Council ( ICC ) president Mustafa Kamal , a Bangladeshi , also joined the protest saying , " If needed , I will resign from the ICC. Speaking as fan , it appears to me that it ( ICC ) has become Indian Cricket Council. There needs to be an investigation. A result was forced on us today. " Rejecting its own President 's criticism of the umpiring during Bangladesh 's World Cup quarterfinal loss to India , the ICC on Friday said Kamal 's outburst against the match officials was " unfortunate " and " baseless " . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
