Is Srinivasan influence on the wane in BCCI ? The author has posted comments on this article Indranil Basu , TNN | Apr 7 , 2015 , 10.12AM IST Srinivasan 's influence appeared to be on the wane. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : N Srinivasan 's influence appeared to be on the wane as the Indian cricket board ( BCCI ) announced the names of committee members on Monday. The new BCCI list features many who lost to Srinivasan loyalists in last month 's AGM in Chennai. Among these are Rajeev Shukla - who was named the chairman of the IPL , as first reported by TOI - while Jyotiraditya Scindia was appointed head of the finance committee. Incidentally , Ranjib Biswal was Srinivasan 's choice for the IPL chairman 's post . Another BCCI official , Ajay Shirke , who had resigned from the treasurer 's post during the 2013 spot-fixing scandal , makes a return to the IPL governing council. The BCCI also inducted former India captain Sourav Ganguly in place of GR Vishwanath , who was Srinivasan 's choice in the IPL GC last year. Chetan Desai , who lost the BCCI elections last month , will head the BCCI marketing committee . The Srinivasan camp , though , is n't willing to give up without a fight. According to loyalists , Srinivasan still retains the backing of a majority of members in the working committee. However , a source said , " The ruling faction is taking decisions without consulting the previous chief , and that is a clear indication that Srinivasan is losing ground. " Sandeep Patil , however , was retained as selection commitee chairman while Brijesh Patel was removed from the National Cricket Academy chairman 's post and replaced by MP Pandove . Shastri retained in IPL GC With Ravi Shastri being retained in the IPL governing council , there was speculation hat he would not continue as director with the national team. His contact as director of cricket was till the World Cup. Sources said Shastri had old the BCCI before the World Cup that he would not continue , but the current BCCI regime did n't confirm the development. " For next two months , India is n't playing any international cricket. We will ake a decision later during IPL , " a BCCI official said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
