Jagmohan Dalmiya all set to return as BCCI president The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 1 , 2015 , 02.40PM IST Jagmohan Dalmiya , who is president of the Cricket Association of Bengal , filed his nomination papers with support from his own association , the National Cricket Club in Kolkata and the four other east zone associations. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : Veteran cricket administrator Jagmohan Dalmiya is all set to return as BCCI president more than a decade after he last held the top job , emerging as the consensus candidate from incumbent N Srinivasan 's camp . The road for Dalmiya was cleared after another former president Sharad Pawar failed to get a proposer from East zone , prompting the Maratha strongman to pull out of the race ahead of Monday 's much-anticipated and much-delayed Annual General Meeting . It has also been learnt that current board secretary Sanjay Patel will retain his post , provided he is not entangled in a contest with Pawar loyalist Anurag Thakur . The 74-year-old Dalmiya , President of Cricket Association of Bengal ( CAB ) , controls two votes from East Zone and had on Saturday emerged as a front-runner for the top post since no other name was unanimously acceptable to all the units loyal to Srinivasan . Dalmiya 's bid got a boost on Sunday after Pawar failed to get any proposer from the east zone , whose turn it is to nominate the president . All the six state units from the east zone owed allegiance to the Srinivasan camp as his loyalists met here on Saturday ahead of the Annual General Meeting . " Since this is the turn of east zone Dalmiya has both the proposer and seconder from east. The nomination was today at 3pm , " BCCI sources told PTI . In the event of elections , Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association chief Thakur will be the candidate for secretary 's post from the Pawar camp , while Goa 's Chetan Desai was the man chosen to take on Bihar Cricket Association 's Amitabha Chodhary from the Srinivasan group for the post of joint secretary . Haryana 's Anirudh Choudhary will be the treasurer . From the Srinivasan camp , nominees for the five vice presidents are CK Khanna ( North ) , Gangaraju ( South ) , Goutam Roy ( East ) , Mathews ( West ) , while the central zone nominee has not been decided yet . Maratha strongman Pawar , who was projected as possible candidate for the president 's post , flew into the city yesterday and was closeted in a meeting with his supporters. Former BCCI president Shashank Manohar also arrived here for the AGM . The vice-Presidential candidates from the Pawar camp are Jyotiraditya Scindia , Ravi Sawant and M P Pandove . Dalmiya 's elevation to the position has been necessitated by Srinivasan being forced to stay away from the election owing to a Supreme Court directive. Srinivasan can only vote during Monday 's electoral process . In fact , the AGM itself has been delayed for a while now owing to legal battle that Srinivasan is fighting in the top court . The apex court is currently hearing the IPL spot-fixing scandal in which conflict of interest with regards Srinivasan 's position as BCCI President and IPL team owner has come in for sharp criticism from court . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
