Jagmohan Dalmiya : Return of the wily survivor The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 2 , 2015 , 09.15AM IST Dalmiya came back at the helm of CAB in 2008 and since then enjoyed a smooth tenure , becoming a yes-man of the BCCI administration that had once even thrown him out. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 " Mere paas Eden hain ! " That was Jagmohan Dalmiya 's Deewaaresque defiance in 2005 after he lost the BCCI presidential elections to Sharad Pawar on his home turf . READ ALSO : ​ Dalmiya wins power play , will head BCCI In 2013 , at 73 years and out of the blue , he had made a brief return as interim chief in a board racked by the match-fixing saga. It had raised a strange vision of the return of the wily administrator . Less than two years later , he 's poised to re-claim Indian cricket 's top post. In 2013 , it was his Cricket Association of Bengal ( CAB ) that had brought him back into national reckoning. This time , his influence won him the entire East Zone . Dalmiya is a survivor. He has faced a few storms all these years. He was ousted once from the CAB but the maverick-turned-survivor never let go . He came back at the helm of CAB in 2008 and since then enjoyed a smooth tenure , becoming a yes-man of the BCCI administration that had once even thrown him out . In May 2013 , N Srinivasan agreed to Dalmiya becoming the interim chief of the BCCI in the face of the betting and spot-fixing storm. Srinivasan recognised the fact that Dalmiya is one administrator who did n't have political compulsions at the moment . In addition , other than the CAB , he has direct control over the vote of National Cricket Club - a non-existent unit in Kolkata which has continued to hold on to its voting right in an electorate of 30 . Dalmiya has had a well-documented anti-Sharad Pawar stance. Dalmiya 's reservation about Pawar stems from the fact that the Mumbai man was instrumental in humiliating him in a BCCI meeting in 2006 and stopped all grants to CAB , which led to him vacating his post at home . Srinivasan , on the other hand , fell out with the Maratha strongman since helping him take over BCCI in 2005 . But given his ambition , will Dalmiya continue to be a rubber-stamp chief to another controlling president ? That was the million-dollar question which was doing the rounds in the BCCI circles. He gave two contradictory reactions since emerging from the working committee meeting in Chennai that brought him back to the limelight . " I am not the president , Mr Srinivasan is...I am only the interim chief , " Dalmiya said , surrounded by Srini 's men in Chennai. A day later , soaking in his moment of limelight on his CAB turf , the 73-year-old contradicted himself. " If you think I am Srinivasan 's proxy , that 's wishful thinking...I will show what it is , " Dalmiya had said . That 's just a glimpse of the power hungry boss who ruled Indian cricket for close to two decades. After coming to cricket administration in the early '80s , he went against his mentor Biswanth Dutt , captured power both at BCCI and CAB , and went on to become the ICC president . But one of his fiercest battles was for the BCCI president 's post in 2001 , when he beat AC Muthiah by a single vote in Chennai and took complete control over the body . But it was Pawar 's emergence in 2004 that rocked Dalmiya for the first time and even though he held on with the help of a casting vote in the acrimonious election that year , one could sense that the end was near . Or maybe , it was n't. Despite being barred from all BCCI meetings for three years , the Chanakya of cricket administration is back at a time when the game needs an image rebuilding. Can he do it all over again ? ( THIS PROFILE HAD APPEARED IN TOI 'S CREST EDITION DATED JUNE 8 , 2013. IT 'S BEING REPRODUCED HERE WITH SOME UPDATES ) Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
