Kevin Pietersen signs for Surrey in bid for England recall The author has posted comments on this article AP | Mar 25 , 2015 , 05.40PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Kevin Pietersen took another step toward a possible return to the England team by signing for Surrey on Wednesday , giving the country 's most controversial player two months in English county cricket to impress selectors before the Ashes series . Pietersen is seeking a way back into the England set-up after being ditched following last year 's Ashes whitewash in Australia so the team could build a new " ethos and philosophy' ' without its most divisive influence . He was given encouragement by the incoming chairman of the England and Wales Cricket Board , Colin Graves , who said last month that Pietersen could be recalled if he plays county cricket and scores lots of runs. Pietersen and Graves have also spoken over the telephone . Pietersen has reacted by securing a release from his contract with Indian Premier League side Sunrisers Hyderabad and signing a season-long deal with Surrey , for whom he played Twenty20 cricket last year . " A Kevin Pietersen with ambitions to play for England and a real determination to score big runs for Surrey will be a huge asset to us,' ' said Alec Stewart , the former England batsman who is Surrey 's director of cricket . Pietersen will be available for the opening game of the county championship on April 19 . " I 'm absolutely thrilled to be back at Surrey,' ' Pietersen said. " It 's a club very close to my heart . " There is a fantastic group of lads here , and hopefully we can deliver what the great Surrey fans want to see - lots of runs and comprehensive victories. " The five-test Ashes series begins on July 8 with the first match in Cardiff . The South Africa-born Pietersen is a former England captain and his adopted country 's all-time top run-scorer in all formats. He has played 104 tests , 136 one-day games , and 37 T20 internationals . James Whitaker , England 's national selector , said at a squad announcement last week for the upcoming West Indies tour that Pietersen was " not part of our plans,' ' after being repeatedly asked about the batsman . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
