Kieron Pollard takes break from first-class cricket The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Mar 10 , 2015 , 08.29PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 PORT-OF-SPAIN ( Trinidad ) : West Indies allrounder Kieron Pollard is to take an " indefinite break " from first class cricket , Trinidad and Tobago ( T&T ) cricket officials have confirmed . The confirmation came shortly after Pollard took five for 36 on Monday for T&T in a 175-run loss against the Windward Islands in the WICB Professional Cricket League ( PCL ) at the National Cricket Centre in Couva . He will be out of the Red Force team for their next PCL four-day match against current leaders Guyana Jaguars in Guyana starting Friday . " Pollard has informed the TTCB that he is taking an indefinite break from first class cricket , " said the TTCB facebook page . " Pollard is now unavailable for selection for the remainder of matches in the WICB Professional Cricket League Four-Day tournament " . Earlier this season , opening batsman Adrian Barath pulled out of the team saying he , too , was taking a break . Pollard 's announcement comes on the heels of countrymen Dwayne Bravo and Lendl Simmons ' retirement from Test cricket . Simmons is currently in the West Indies team taking part in the World Cup in New Zealand and Australia . " The Trinidad and Tobago Cricket Board would like to thank Kieron Pollard for his services in the first-class match against the Windward Islands , " said another post on the TTCB facebook page . " The board wishes him the best during his period of indefinite leave from first-class cricket and wishes him an early return. " Media reports from Port of Spain said Pollard sent an email to the CEO of the T&T Cricket Board and the team selectors informing them of the situation . Pollard 's appearance against the Windward Islands was his first match for T&T since the Nagico Super50 tournament in January , hosted by T&T . He returned to the T&T line up against the Windwards after recovering from a leg injury . " He ( Pollard ) said the stress and strain of the four-day cricket was taking a toll on his body. Well it is up to him , when he is ready he will return , " said T&T Cricket Board chairman of selectors Alec Burns . Fast bowler Shannon Gabriel and batsman Mark Deyal have been included in the T&T squad to face Guyana in the next round of the WICB four-day competition . Gabriel replaces Daniel St Clair , who is suffering with a kidney infection and Deyal comes in for Akeal Hosein , who has had a disappointing season . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
