Kohli fantastic but Kane no less : Brendon McCullum The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 17 , 2015 , 08.17AM IST Kane Williamson and Virat Kohli led New Zealand and India respectively during the U-19 World Cup in Malaysia , where India went on to become the champions. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 DUNEDIN : Virat Kohli took a bold step in Adelaide on Sunday to stake his claim as the No. 1 batsman of the World Cup with a match-winning century against Pakistan. But there 's another player who , his nation feels , wo n't allow Kohli to run away with the crown so easily . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 It 's Kane Williamson , who was bought by Sunrisers Hyderabad for Rs 60,000,00 in the IPL auction. His national skipper believes the Kiwi right-hander will one day go on to become the best batsman in the world . " I know the comparisons with Kohli will keep coming. Kohli is fantastic player but I can speak for Kane because I know him better. I have hardly seen anybody better than Kane at his age , " Brendon McCullum said . Williamson and Kohli led New Zealand and India respectively during the U-19 World Cup in Malaysia , where India went on to become the champions. Though they are of the same generation and have a similar hunger to pile on runs , the two players have vastly different temperaments. While Kohli is the flashy , never-say-die go-getter , Williamson is one you wo n't even notice has gone past his half-century. The Kiwi , an orthodox player , worked on his game during his County stint with Gloucestershire to become more effective in the limited-overs game. That surely helped as he looked dangerous in the World Cup opener against Sri Lanka . " Kane lends incredible solidity to the middle-order of our team. I have all the admiration in the world for the way Kohli leads those run-chases for India , but I can assure you that Kane is as good as anybody else in the world , " McCullum said . " Kane is a phenomenal talent , " McCullum added. " I believe he 'll go down as our greatest-ever batter. I do n't want to put that added pressure on him , but what we 're seeing at the moment is a guy who is incredibly comfortable with his game , who keeps trying to develop his game , keeps learning. " Williamson 's entry in IPL may well be a game-changer for him. He will have to deliver for SRH on a daily basis in the demanding T20 format and there 's bound to be a buzz around him. But on Monday morning during New Zealand 's practice , Williamson looked to be on a different planet. " Let 's see if anybody buys me , " Williamson smiled when TOI asked him about his IPL hopes after a gruelling batting session . While some of the New Zealand cricket experts feel it would have been better if Williamson had stayed away from the lure of IPL money , his skipper believes it 's going to make him a better cricketer . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
