Martin Crowe inducted into ICC Hall of Fame The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 28 , 2015 , 01.23PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : There was a bit of grey and a lot of blue as Martin Crowe came out to play the last game of his life. The rain came as the game between the club 's 1994 Premier 's XI and President 's XI got off but as Crowe was about to come out to bat , the sun peeped through. It seemed cricket God wanted to set the stage up for one of his favourite son 's last day with the bat . Crowe is fighting cancer , he can almost see the end. There 's a bit of resignation as he says " This is the last time I am coming to this club " . After all , Cornwall is the piece of green where young Martin used to come with his father Dav and brother Jeff since he was a little boy. His father 's ashes are spread in this ground , there 's a bench in old Dav 's name too. " You see up there , that 's my father 's bench , " Crowe says , panting a bit . " There are no memories of 1992 , " he said , but when he went out to bat in his 92 World Cup shirt , it was all about memories. He put his collar up , just like the young Martin used to , danced down the track , played those majestic on-drives. It was a 20-ball 25 with old mate Mark Gretbach at the other end , and it seemed like an old poem lost in the pages of a diary at the corner of the dusty attic . Crowe has been inducted into the ICC Hall of Fame , he will come to Eden Park on Saturday , but he is scared that the emotions might just take over . " Brendon ( McCullum ) is such a fantastic captain , the team is playing so well , I have to keep my emotions in check , " he said . Once his batting was done , his mates went out to field but Crowe was done for the day. As the crowd around enjoyed the game , Crowe trudged along towards his car , to leave his club. It was around this time TOI caught with him. " Is there an abiding Indian memory ? " he was asked , to which Crowe stops. " It 's Sachin. Whenever I think of India , I think of Sachin. He was the best , " he says , reminding that he would meet the Little Master in an invitational dinner on Friday night. " See you mate , thanks for coming , " he says before leaving . Thank you Martin Crowe , for all the entertainment . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
