Miandad to players : Take inspiration from 1992 team The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 17 , 2015 , 09.57AM IST Javed Miandad reminded the players that the 1992 team - led by Imran Khan - too had lost to India before going on to win the World Cup. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : A day after their heart-breaking loss to India , legendary Pakistani batsman Javed Miandad criticized the team management but told players not to get disheartened and take inspiration from the 1992 team , which won the World Cup here . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Miandad reminded the players that the 1992 team - led by Imran Khan - too had lost to India before going on to win the World Cup . He said : " In a way it 's good that Pakistan have suffered an early setback. Remember , Pakistan lost three matches in a row in 1992 , which also included that defeat against India , but we came back strongly to lift the trophy. Pressure should now be off their shoulders and they should concentrate on the remaining five group matches. What they need is to field the right combination and look for specialists , instead of accommodating players who are part timers or not in form. " He added : " Even now nothing is lost. Players should forget the setback and play their matches aggressively and with the right combination of players . " To me , it seems the Pakistan team management is confused where its strength lies. It wants to bat deep down to No. 8 and also does n't want to miss out on the sixth bowler. I am afraid that 's not the right approach . " Relying on the left-arm spin of Haris Sohail was another big gamble. Against strong batting , he wo n't be effective on the pitches here. They used not one or two but three spinners against the Indian batsmen who are so prolific against them. That was a big mistake , " he said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
