Morale-boosting anthems for our Men in Blue The author has posted comments on this article V Lakshmi , TNN | Feb 27 , 2015 , 01.49PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Much to the delight of us Indians , Team India has been delivering power-packed performances this World Cup , winning the matches it has played against Pakistan and South Africa. While compliments and encouraging words on social networking forums from the cricket crazy nation have boosted the team 's morale , a few anthems have also been composed to keep the players in high spirit. Here 's a look at some of them : Nine popular singers - Benny Dayal , Raghu Dixit , Karthik , Hari and Sukhmani , Akriti Kakar , Zubeen Garg , Shakthisree and Kavita Seth - have come together to bring out the cricket anthem this year. These artistes have revisited the popular AR Rahman number Chale Chalo ( from Lagaan ) , albeit with different lyrics , in nine different languages. The beautifully shot video features the artistes and depicts how cricket is a part and parcel of everyone 's lives . Siddharth Mahadevan and Krishna Beura have come up with the official World Cup song for India this year. While Shreyash and Preet have composed the number , Yours DC has also lent his vocals for the same. Shot in a stage-like setup , the song aims to boost the drive of the men in blue . AR Rahman 's nephew and composer GV Prakash has cut a single to cheer Team India. Hey Champion , composed and sung by him , also features Vishakha Singh. MS Dhoni and Virat Kohli have also made a guest appearance in the song , which pays tribute to our team . This World Cup , Bob 's Beat by Swedish music producer WDL is being played in the stadiums to keep the players motivated. The number 's beats reflect the competitive nature of the sport . Neeraj Pandey , who is helming the biopic on MS Dhoni , has directed a music video , titled Phir Se. According to him , the song is 'an anthem , plea , prayer , dream , all rolled in one'. The song sums up the mood of the nation during the Cup , and is a tribute to the passion of the players and our love for cricket . Way back in 2012 , Dhanush featured in a music video - Sachin Anthem or the Sachin Song - for which he also lent his voice. The anthem was a tribute to Tendulkar 's formidable performances in the field of cricket for 23 years. The English song , composed in desi style , also featured Kolaveri Di composer Anirudh and South Indian actress Anushka . Following suit , in 2013 , singer Kailash Kher had come up with another Sachin anthem , Yeh Desh Hai Achambho Ka. The occasion was to commemorate the Master Blaster 's retirement from cricket after his 200th Test. The song explained why he is considered the pride of the nation . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
