My wife saw me through the ban : Ojha The author has posted comments on this article Rupam Jain , TNN | Mar 3 , 2015 , 02.53PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Pragyan Ojha looks a little pale , but with shades and a smile , he looks alright. And why not - after being banned from playing cricket for his faulty bowling action , Pragyan has shot back into reckoning , picking up four wickets in a recent Ranji trophy match . " I think I have now begun the second innings of my career. I believe there is something good in everything bad. I am thankful to my friends - the ones I play Ranji Trophy with - as they motivated me , " says Ojha , as he sits down at his home in Banjara Hills for a chat . ...THE TAG 'BANNED ' HURT That I was 'banned ' from playing hit me hard. It appeared like I was at fault. I think was trying too hard. From 2013 , my action was under scrutiny. I wore a half sleeve jersey and bowled in Duleep Trophy matches which were broadcast nationally. If I was hiding something , I would n't have done that. The bowling action was like an injury , it was not deliberate. But it motivated me to come back stronger. I just wanted that tag to go . I DID N'T DO ANYTHING DELIBERATELY.. . The coaches at the SRMC Sports Centre , where I was sent for rehab , said I needed to correct my action. To unlearn and change the bowling action , I had to practice a lot after understanding the problem. If it was intentional , I would have taken a longer to get out of rehab. I was in just 25 days . KARABEE SAW ME THROUGH After the ban , I was down and upset. But I never cried. My wife Karabee saw me through the tough phase... she never showed that she was upset and was her normal self. It just made my life seem normal even in those tough times . 25 DAYS OF REHAB WAS N'T EASY When I went to SRMC rehab centre it was crucial for me to adjust mentally. My mind was rejecting the corrective measures. I was not bowling straight. It was like I could n't bowl. But D Vasu and Venkatramana , who are coaches at the centre , told me what I have to work on . LAXMAN 'S WORDS STAYED WITH ME.. . Laxman , PS Niranjan , Amol Shinde , Alfred Absolom - they were with me throughout. Laxman told me that this is a phase and I have to overcome it. His words stayed with me.. . I WANT TO MAKE IT TO TEAM INDIA SOON I am a firm believer in working hard and doing what I do right. I would rather do what is in my control , and that 's performing. I am very passionate about playing for the country. The last game I played for team India , I was the Man of the Match for picking up 10 wickets. I want to get back there and make a difference. I want to be someone who can win games for India just like Anil Kumble , Bishen Singh Bedi , Chandrasekhar , Venkatapathy Raju , Prasanna would do. I want to be like those guys . I DID N'T EXPECT TO BE PICKED UP FOR THE T-20 TEAM I did n't expect to make it to the IPL this year. But the franchisee I have been playing for backed me and picked me up. I am glad because IPL does give you visibility. Then , there are home series coming up after IPL and I want to perform well . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
