New BCCI regime prefers status quo on DRS The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 25 , 2015 , 04.50PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : A change of guard at the BCCI has not changed the board 's view on the controversial Decision Review System ( DRS ) with the powerful body saying it can not accept the technology in its current state . India is the only team which has refused to use DRS in bilateral series ever since it did not find the system 'foolproof ' in a Test match against Sri Lanka in 2008 . " We stand by the view the BCCI has taken in the past. if there is a change in technology there can be a rethink ( on our stance ) but that has not happened yet , " newly-elected BCCI secretary Anurag Thakur said before leaving for Australia to attend the India-Australia World Cup semifinal in Sydney on Thursday . The ICC has tweaked the technology since 2008 but it is still not good enough for India despite being at the receiving end of some umpiring bloopers on a few occasions , most recently in the Test series in Australia . The DRS is used in all ICC events including the ongoing World Cup. But only ball tracking and Snicko feature is being used , and not Hot Spot due to shortage of equipment , said the world body last month . India have maintained that they will not embrace the technology until it is 100 percent accurate. During the Test series , Dhoni defended the team 's stance on DRS despite feeling hard done by a few calls . " There is a lot of 50-50 decisions that are not going in our favour. We are on the receiving end more often than not. What happens in DRS , even if the DRS is around , those ( contentious ) decisions wo n't go in our favour , " Dhoni had said . " DRS is used often to justify the decision that is given by the umpire. What is important is to use DRS as a way of giving the right decision whether the umpire has given it out or not out. " The BCCI 's clout in the ICC has given it leeway to stick to its stand on DRS , ignoring the criticism it gets from time to time . It remains to be seen whether BCCI 's approach changes after ICC reviews the technology post ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 . " There is work going on at the moment around reviewing DRS and the use of technology , and I think it has been status quo to the World Cup using the same system we have used for a while. But I think after the World Cup , we will revisit the last few years and see how it is going and whether the protocols that are in place at the moment are the ones that serve our game the best , " ICC general manager Geoff Allardice said in the run up to the World Cup . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
