New Zealand will have to dig deep against Australia : Crowe The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 27 , 2015 , 02.53PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : With New Zealand at the cusp of World Cup glory , former captain Martin Crowe has said the Black Caps will have to dig deep into their resources if they have to beat Australia as it will be a " high emotion " title clash between the trans-Tasman rivals . New Zealand go unbeaten into the title clash in Melbourne on Sunday and even though the Brendon McCullum-led side has won all their eight matches on home shores , playing in Australia would certainly test their true mettle . Crowe believes that Australia will certainly be a tough opposition to match . " It 's the unknown. Nobody played at MCG , probably only Daniel Vettori and Brendon McCullum , I am not sure. But they will have to dig in their reservoir of resources , their own own resilience and that 's where they are playing their game from , " Crowe said in an exclusive interview ahead of the World Cup final . " I do n't think the grounds are going to have too much of a difference but up against Australia it 's certainly going to be a high fever emotion in cricket 's silicon valley , " he said . The Kiwis have got the better of Australia in the league stages when they edged past the Kangaroos by 1 wicket in a low-scoring thriller at Eden Park , Auckland , but Crowe still feels that the Micheal Clarke-led side is a hard nut to crack . " I mean Australia bring a very powerhouse kind of game. It 's a lot of brawn and they are very bullish about it , " said Crowe . It will also be a battle of pacers when Trent Boult , leading the wickets pack in the showpiece event with 21 from eight matches , and company , lock horns with the likes of Mitchell Starc ( 20 wickets ) , Mitchell Johnson and Josh Hazlewood . Crowe has a lot faith in the ability of Kiwi fast bowlers . " New Zealand have got a lot more skill in the fast bowling department , with their fast swing , " he said . Despite the presence of spinners like Daniel Vettori and Glenn Maxwell in the respective sides , Crowe opines spin will not play much of a part at the MCG . " Spin played a huge part in this World Cup , but MCG is a big ground and I do n't think spin will dominate proceedings. And even if it does the New Zealand side have been able to meet up all the challenges so far , " Crowe said . Remind him of the 1992 World Cup campaign , when they lost to eventual winners Pakistan in the semi-finals , Crowe says that cricket has come a long way in 25 years . " Different time , different era , different conditions , different rules , different everything. The game is played at a much faster pace , the rules favour the batsman. So it 's not possible to compare the fact that they have gone one further than 1992. They have broken the semi-final barrier and now they are on the verge of something pretty special , " said the former batsman . An imaginative leader who maximised his team 's potential and resources by thoughtful captaincy , Crowe chose McCullum ahead of India 's Mahendra SIngh Dhoni when it came to modern-day ODI leadership . " I would agree on McCullum as he has brought in a whole new style of captaincy. Though totally different brand of captaincy. Dhoni is very consistent , he has been a very shrewd captain. A very gifted captain under pressure and a fine player in the middle . " But Brendon brings a different style , he does the batting as well , he is a lot more 'going hard ' kind of a leader. He 's a lot more refreshing. So I will back him in comparison to MS ( Dhoni ) , but not by much , " Crowe concluded . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
