'Northern disturbance ' makes Anurag Thakur BCCI secy The author has posted comments on this article Hindol Basu , TNN | Mar 3 , 2015 , 10.12AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHANDIGARH : Top BJP leader and Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association ( HPCA ) president Anurag Thakur took everyone by surprise on Monday during the BCCI elections when he beat incumbent Sanjay Patel to become the all-powerful board 's new secretary . Thakur was the only candidate of Maratha strongman Sharad Pawar , who took a key post while all other positions went to former president N Srinivasan 's camp. Thakur won by just one vote 15 to 14 to engineer the upset. TOI had reported on Sunday that the Srinivasan lobby had the numbers in its favour and was favourite to sweep the elections. It panned out exactly like that , except Thakur ensured it was n't a whitewash . So , how did Thakur upstage the Srinivasan applecart ? Sources in BCCI confirmed to TOI that at the eleventh hour , some Srinivasan loyalists cross voted in favoured of Thakur. An influential BCCI member , on condition of anonymity , said that the whole North Zone voted for Thakur , effectively meaning seven votes in favour of the HPCA president . The north is represented in BCCI by Delhi and District Cricket Association , Services Sports Control Board , Punjab Cricket Association , Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association , Haryana Cricket Association , Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association and All India Universities . It is learnt that out of these state units , only Punjab and Himachal were with the Pawar camp. The rest were Srinivasan loyalists. But during actual voting , all of them supported Thakur . Many felt that BJP 's influence in many of these bodies may have prevailed over their cricketing alliances . Another top BCCI source , who was present during the AGM in Chennai , told TOI , " There was a huge northern disturbance in Srinivasan 's pre and post elections set plans , which led to Patel 's unexpected defeat. " Thakur 's number game and eventual victory got a further boost when two other board members abstained , while votes were being cast for the post of secretary. Interestingly , the two members did exercise their franchise when voting for other posts took place . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
