Off-field distractions hurting Windies : Davis The author has posted comments on this article Prasad RS , TNN | Mar 15 , 2015 , 10.39AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Just after his team 's loss to Ireland in the World Cup opener in Nelson last month , West Indies skipper Jason Holder had remarked , " We tried to be better with our bowling in the Powerplay and the death overs , but were n't able to pull them back. " In that match , the two-time former champions scored 304 but failed to defend it . Barring the games against Pakistan and Zimbabwe , West Indies ' bowlers have n't managed to bowl out the opposition. With the exception of Jerome Taylor ( 11 wickets from 5 games ) and Andre Russell ( 7 from 5 outings ) , none of the West Indian bowlers even feature in the leading wicket-takers ' list. The steady decline of West Indian bowling attack over the last many years may not surprise anyone anymore , but the lack of effort saddens many. Former West Indies cricketer Winston Davis is one of them . Davis , who featured in 15 Tests and 35 ODIs for West Indies , is disappointed with the current team 's inability to play to potential. " There is no dearth of talent in the West Indies side , but they need to stitch it together in a tournament such as the World Cup.They need to avoid off-field distractions if they are to make a mark , " said the 56-year-old while speaking to TOI from Worcester in England. Davis , confined to a wheelchair after being hit on his head by a tree branch he was cutting while helping construct a church back in the 90s , is confident that the West Indies will feature in the business end of the tournament. " If World Cup is the only thing on the players ' minds at this stage , then I am sure we can even get to the final. On our day , we have the talent to beat any side , " said Davis . For about two decades , Davis ' career-best ODI figures of 7-51 ( against Australia at Leeds ) , which came in the 1983 World Cup , topped the list of leading bowling performances in the quadrennial event before Glenn McGrath ( 7-15 ) and Andy Bichel ( 7-20 ) bettered it during the 2003 World Cup . In the current edition , New Zealand 's Tim Southee bagged 7-33 to join the exclusive club. Davis vividly remembers that special day of his playing career. " The night before the team was selected , I was n't part of the playing XI as Malcolm Marshall was included. Unfortunately , Malcom fell ill and I was drafted into the side the following morning , " recalled Davis , who cherished the wickets of Kim Hughes and David Hookes. Among the current crop of fast bowlers , Davis rates Dale Steyn highly. " He is blessed with pace and has maintained himself over the years , " Davis said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
