Pakistan 's jinx against India in World Cup continues The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 15 , 2015 , 07.14PM IST Pakistan have now lost to India for the sixth time in ODI World Cup , besides having been beaten thrice in the Twenty20 World Cups. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE/ISLAMABAD : Pakistan 's jinx against India at cricket World Cup continued on Sunday with their heavy defeat in Adelaide , making it 9-0 in favour of India and prompting angry Pakistani fans to take to streets and burn TV sets . READ ALSO : World Cup India-Pak clash lights up Twitter In 1996 World Cup , India beat Pakistan by 39 runs in Bangalore , while three years later , they again got the better off their rivals with a 47-run win in Manchester . Maintaining their stranglehold , India under captain Sourav Ganguly beat their neighbours by six wickets in the 2003 World Cup in Centurion. In 2011 , the 1983 Champions hosted the quadrennial event and the hosts beat Pakistan by 29 runs in Mohali . India made it 6-0 in 50 overs World Cup today by thrashing them by 76 runs at the Adelaide Oval . India also dominated Pakistan in T20 World Cups with Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's men defeating their rivals by five runs in the 2007 edition in Johannesburg . In 2012 , India once again had the upper hand against Pakistan as they notched up a eight wicket win in Colombo , while in 2014 they won by seven wickets in Dhaka . Pakistani fans took to streets and set TV sets on fire to give vent to their anger against yet another loss to India . After the win , former India captain Ganguly said it was a commendable performance by the Indians to keep their unbeaten World Cup track record intact . Ganguly said the Indians have not only maintained their supremacy in the 50 over cricket in World Cup but also in Twenty20 versions . Talking about the pressure of playing Pakistan in a World Cup match , Virat Kohli , who was adjudged the Man of the Match for his 107 , said , " Last couple of days have been too tough. Too many people in the hotel getting worked over. You just have to stay in your little space. " Former South African cricketer Jhonty Rhodes , who himself has featured in four World Cups , said it is a " billion dollar " question as to why Pakistan can not beat India in World Cup matches . " We ( South Africa ) have never reached the final ... It 's not a single factor. Why Pakistan is not able to beat India is a billion dollar question , " he said . Pakistan 's 1992 World Cup wining captain , Imran Khan found fault in team combination and said a specialist wicket-keeper should have been picked . " I always believed in having specialist players and I think playing Umar ( Akmal ) as a keeper was a mistake and it cost us . " I think Virat Kohli was the key for India and batted very sensibly while the way our fast bowlers delivered in the end was very satisfying . " Today 's pitch was very good for batting but chasing 300 even than is always a psychological pressure. " Batting great Zaheer Abbas felt that Pakistan committed too many mistakes on the field and also while selecting the team . " Pakistan committed too many mistakes. Younis Khan should not have been sent as an opener and they should not have dropped Sarfraz Ahmed and made Umar Akmal keep wickets , " he said . " There was no proper planning. We made so many mistakes. Our captain did blunders. Sending Younis Khan to open the innings was a big blunder and using Umar Akmal as a wicketkeeper was another. Moreover , we dropped so many catches . " Last World Cup also we dropped so many catches. When do we learn ? , " asked Zaheer . Indian off-spinner Harbhajan Singh also expressed happiness that India could maintain their unbeaten record against Pakistan . Asked about Shahid Afridi 's potential , Harbhajan said : " He is a potential bomb which can be dangerous when it falls in your courtyard but he mostly falls in his courtyard. " Former Pakistan opener Mohsin Khan said that there was no planning by the Pakistanis unlike Indians who planned well for the match . " The way the Indians played it showed that they had prepared well for the match. The way they ran the singles and twos , the field placements and the bowling changes , it shows that they were prepared. Somehow I feel , Pakistan had no planning , " he said . Pakistan 's former spinner Saqlain Mushtaq said : " Our strategy was not right. Though I agree that sending Younis Khan as an opener was country 's requirement but we lacked genuine opener and a genuine wicket-keeper. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
