Pawar keeps Srinivasan on tenterhooks The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Feb 25 , 2015 , 11.53AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : There is absolute panic in the N Srinivasan camp five days before the Board of Control for Cricket of India ( BCCI ) holds its Annual General Meeting and elections that are long overdue. With the Supreme Court on Monday expressing its unhappiness over Srinivasan chairing the working committee meeting on February 8 , it is now clear that he is out of the BCCI presidential race . It means the Srinivasan camp now has to come up with a 'trustworthy ' candidate , who will toe their line if he manages to cobble up a simple majority in the March 2 election. In absence of Plan B , the ruling group is scrambling to find a 'suitable ' candidate who must also be acceptable to the rest of the flock besides being able to deliver . Till a couple of weeks back , Shivlal Yadav , who has been officiating as interim president following a Supreme Court directive last year , was the preferred choice for the ruling group if Srinivasan failed to cross the legal hurdles. But with Yadav embroiled in a financial scandal in his own association ( Hyderabad ) , the ruling group appears to have developed a cold feet. Fearing that the 'tainted ' Yadav may not be acceptable to the BJP , which can directly or indirectly influence at least eight votes in a 31-member house at the AGM , the ruling group is toying with the idea of fielding Baroda 's Sanjay Patel -a staunch Srinivasan supporter - for the president 's post . Patel , who has been officiating as honorary secretary of the BCCI , however , is considered to be a weak candidate. Moreover , he may not be acceptable to a section of the ruling group itself as he has no locus standi in his own association. Patel , who lost the BCA election last year , thus does not control even the Baroda vote . The opposition to Patel could come from East Zone , whose turn it is to nominate a presidential candidate. Over the past three years Odisha , Jharkhand and Assam have broken ranks with other East Zone units - namely CAB , NCC and Tripura - and stood by Srinivasan through thick and thin and enjoyed the 'fringe ' benefits of being on the right ride of the power block. But with Srinivasan out of the equation , there is unease in these associations which can not afford to back the wrong horse. Efforts are on to persuade the representatives of these three associations , whose support would be critical for any candidate the ruling group puts up . The ruling group had also toyed with the idea of fielding Jagmohan Dalmiya for the president 's post , hoping to cash in on the former ICC and BCCI chief 's good relations with BJP stalwart and Union finance minister Arun Jaitley. But a trust deficit seems to have queered the pitch for Dalmiya , who is still too wily to be manipulated in the long run . The disarray in the ruling group is a reason for glee in the rival faction in the BCCI , which is hoping to rally around Mumbai supremo Sharad Pawar if he decides to throw his hat into the poll fray. Pawar has indicated his willingness to make a pitch for the BCCI top post once again , but is carefully weighing his options before committing himself . If Pawar decides to enter the fray , it could be game over for the Srinivasan group. A strong candidate like Pawar is bound to attract fence-sitters who are known to play a crucial role in BCCI elections. However , if Pawar keeps away , the rival group is open to supporting Dalmiya 's candidature if the septuagenarian bids for another shot at the top post . Expect a clearer picture to emerge in a day or two. The last date for filing of nominations is March 1 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
