PCB pulls up Ajmal for captaincy comment The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 21 , 2015 , 06.31PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 KARACHI : The PCB has not appreciated comments made by star off-spinner Saeed Ajmal where he has promoted the names of Mohammad Hafeez and Azhar Ali to replace Misbah-ul-Haq as captain of the one-day squad . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Misbah , who had already announced his retirement from ODIs after the ongoing ICC World Cup , bowed out after a fighting 34 against Australia as Pakistan exited the tournament with a 6-wicket loss at the Adelaide Oval . Ajmal appearing on a local television channel as expert minced no words in stating that he would appoint either Hafeez or Azhar as the next captain . " Hafeez and Azhar are the best choices to take over as captain , " said Ajmal . Asked about the credentials of Younis Khan , Ajmal said that in the first place Younis was finding it difficult to hold his place in the one-day squad as a player . " I do n't know what Younis has in mind. How much more he wants to play but I do n't think he is a potential candidate because his place in ODIs is not guaranteed so how can he be captain. " Ajmal also suggested that perhaps it was time for Younis to also say goodbye to ODI cricket . The off-spinner who could n't go to the World Cup because of a bowling action problem however conceded that his travel documents were being processed by the Pakistan Cricket Board for Australia for scenario of Pakistan qualifying for the semifinals . Ajmal also blasted the batsmen for their failure against Australia in the quarterfinals and in the World Cup . " I am angry because we batted without any plan against Australia and when will these players learn. If you do n't have a good total how can the bowlers defend it. " Ajmal also made it clear that the batsmen had thrown away their wickets against Australia to careless shots , some of them after settling down . " I do n't recall a delivery which deserved wicket our batsmen gifted it away. I do n't know when players like Umar Akmal or Sohaib Maqsood will learn not to make these mistakes. " A source in the PCB said they had taken notice of Ajmal 's comments since he was a centrally contracted player and was given special permission to work on the channel . " He is getting a good package so we did n't want to deprive him of that but some of his comments are a violation of his central contract terms and we are studying them , " the source said . The captaincy issue with Misbah 's retirement has flared up with one lobby also pushing for wicketkeeper-batsman Sarfraz Ahmed to be made captain . Former Pakistan captain Aamir Sohail has minced no words in saying that Sarfraz should be named captain keeping in mind the future . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
