PCB shortlists three candidates for job of chief selector The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 22 , 2015 , 10.07PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 KARACHI : The Pakistan Cricket Board ( PCB ) has narrowed down its search for a new chief selector to three former Test players , Iqbal Qasim , Mohsin Hasan Khan and Wasim Bari . Reliable sources said that PCB has conveyed to the sitting chief selector Moin Khan that he would be released from his position following the conclusion of the 2015 World Cup . " The search is now on for a new chief selector and new selectors and so far former test spinner , Iqbal Qasim , former test captain , Wasim Bari and former test opener , Mohsin Khan are the leading candidates , " a source said . All three have remained chief selectors in the past while Mohsin has also coached the national team in 2011/12 . The source said that PCB Chairman Shaharyar Khan would soon be deliberating with the Board of Governors to decide who should be the new chief selector . " Shaharyar is satisfied that one of these three former players should be appointed chief selector , " the source said . According to another source Qasim could also be given the responsibility of heading the domestic cricket department . Former Test captain Moin Khan has remained underground since being called back home from the World Cup by the PCB for visiting a Casino in Christchurch the night before the World Cup game against West Indies . The source said that when Moin met with Shaharyar after returning to Pakistan he was told in clear terms that his tenure as chief selector was over and he would be informed of future assignments . Till recently Moin was holding dual responsibility of the national team manager and chief selector on a lucrative contract . The source said the board would soon be calling its Governing board meeting to discuss the performance of the national team in the World Cup and to take decisions for the future . Sohaib Maqsood and Fawad Alam are also in line to be appointed as captain of the one-day side . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
