People of Meerut were always considered moody , says Praveen The author has posted comments on this article Pratyush Patra , TNN | Feb 19 , 2015 , 12.37PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Meerut-born Praveen Kumar gets talking about Meerutwalas shedding the tag of being temperamental and the facilities available to cricket enthusiasts in the city Long before Aamir Khan made the name popular , India had found its PK - Meerut 's wonder boy Praveen Kumar who is fondly called PK. Kumar was once the mainstay pace bowler of the Indian cricket team. And even today , he is UP team 's go-to man in difficult situations. The cricketer talks to us about the changes his hometown has undergone and why he will always bear the pain of missing out on playing the 2011 World Cup . Meerut 's people were always considered moody , but not anymore The ongoing Ranji Trophy tournament has kept Praveen Kumar from visiting his hometown for more than 50 days , but he is not homesick. " Kuch paane ke liye , kuch khona padta hai. Ghar toh nahin ja raha , par yeh saal aur mauke , baad mein nahi milenge , " he says. Having grown up in Meerut , he has seen the evolution of both the city and its people. " Earlier , people had the impression that Meerutwalas are temperamental and one could never predict what would offend them. We were considered very moody. But that has changed now. People in Meerut have now become well-educated and well-mannered. " Walks to Victoria Park with my Meerut buddy The 28-year-old spends most of his time with his family whenever he is in Meerut and occasionally goes out for strolls. " There are not many hangout spots in Meerut. So , I visit my farm house in Barnava and I also have my restaurant in the city where I like to spend some time. I also go for walks at Victoria Park. I am usually accompanied by Ravinderji , who is a professor in Meerut College. He is like my elder brother. I have small conversations when people come and talk to me during these evening walks. " Meerut mein proper club cricket ho raha hai aaj-kal He also shares how Meerut 's cricket culture has advanced over the years. " Hum toh bas mat pe practice kartey thay. Aaj toh proper club cricket ho rahi hai Meerut mein. When young boys ( from the city ) come to me seeking advice , I feel happy giving suggestions on how they can improve their game , " he says . Still regret not playing in the 2011 World Cup Praveen says he would always nurse the pain of having missed out on playing the World Cup. In 2011 , he made it to the World Cup squad but could not be part of it because he was battling with injury and dengue. " Woh kasak toh zindagi bhar rehegi. Par jab uss saal India ne World Cup jeeta , toh laga mere bhi sapna poora ho gaya. " Replying to questions about his future , he adds , " Dekho , jhooth toh main bolta nahi. Jo hona hai , ho jayega. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
