Pietersen agrees IPL release , eyes England return The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 24 , 2015 , 06.12PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Kevin Pietersen announced on Tuesday that he has agreed a release from his Indian Premier League contract , as he bids to earn an England recall by rejoining English county Surrey . Axed by England in February 2014 , the 34-year-old batsman hopes to end his international exile by playing county cricket and has drastically whittled down his IPL commitments with the Sunrisers Hyderabad . " I 'm hugely grateful for all the support and understanding I 've received from everyone at the Sunrisers and the IPL , " Pietersen said in a statement on his personal website . " My focus is now very much on the upcoming season in England and I 'm absolutely determined to score as many runs as possible. " The agreement allows Pietersen to miss the Sunrisers ' entire league programme , but he will be recalled if they reach the IPL knockout phase , which runs from May 19-24 . Pietersen , England 's all-time leading run-scorer in all formats , added : " I 've never made any secret of my overwhelming desire to once again represent England and I 'm going to do everything in my power to earn a recall to the international set-up . " To once again put on that England shirt would be a privilege and an honour , but now I have to focus on performing domestically and give myself the best possible chance of meriting selection. " Pietersen is reportedly close to agreeing a return to Surrey , who de-registered him at the end of last season . He has drawn encouragement from incoming England and Wales Cricket Board ( ECB ) chairman Colin Graves 's comments that a return to county cricket would improve his chances of an England return . But other figures in the England hierarchy have played down the prospect of a comeback for the outspoken batsman . National selector James Whitaker said last week that Pietersen was " not part of our plans " , while captain Alastair Cook described the chances of his former team-mate making a comeback as " very unlikely " . Pietersen was dropped after England 's 2013-14 Ashes series whitewash in Australia , with ECB managing director Paul Downton citing his " disengagement " with his team-mates during the last Test in Sydney . He subsequently released an autobiography in which he alleged that a bullying culture had taken root in the England changing room . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
