Prices of India-Australia World Cup semifinal tickets go through the roof The author has posted comments on this article Kounteya Sinha , TNN | Mar 25 , 2015 , 10.01PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Ticket prices for Thursday 's epic semifinal clash between defending champions India and hosts Australia has shot through the roof , selling at over $ 2000 ( nearly Rs 1 lakh ) . India 's sudden dramatic return to form , resulting in the new look team reaching the semis with elan at the 2015 world cup - winning 11 games on a trot , has resulted in a last minute mad rush among cash rich Indians to fly to Sydney to back the blues . According to Sriram Rajmohan - the CEO of Club Seven Hospitality - a travel agency that has facilitated and organised travel for over 900 Indians besides getting them tickets to India 's crucial ties against Pakistan and South Africa said it has received a deluge of ticket requests over the past week for the semifinal clash . He told TOI in Sydney that an a simple package for being able to watch the semifinal in a private suite at the SCG on Thursday with a two night three day hotel accommodation has sold between $ 2500 ( Rs1.5 lakhs ) . India will take on the mighty Aussies at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Thursday - the winner of which will meet New Zealand in the finals . Dozens have already presumed that India will reach the finals and hence have booked off expensive last minute packages to Melbourne where the last match of the World Cup 2015 is to be played . Rajmohan said a two night three day package of only hotel stay and a ticket to watch the final at Melbourne has gone for $ 5000 ( Rs 2.5 lakhs ) . " Of the 900 people who have travelled from India for the matches with us , 700 have travelled through corporate houses , 150 are the general public and the rest of the 50 are high end individuals. Around 120 Indians from India have just booked with us this week itself for the finals , confident that India will reach it. Also around 80 people decided to attend the semifinal this week itself at the last moment " . T C Guruprasad , MD of Centrum said " The market was initially very low , thanks to India 's poor form and some drubbing in the foreign tours before the world cup started. But as soon as they went on a roll at the world cup , interest shot through the roof with Indian fans willing to shell out the top dollar for a last minute ticket " . Sources told TOI that tickets alone are costing nearly $ 2000 besides a last minute air flight ticket . Officially data has already confirmed Indian fans have cornered 70 % of the tickets available in the 42,000-capacity stadium for Thursday 's match . According to Rajmohan , sports related tourism in India has picked up dramatically during the ongoing world cup . " Centrum ventured into a tie up with one of the official travel operators of the international Cricket Council and promoted world cup packages through Club 7. Initially we threw in a two match package that allowed an Indian team fan to travel to Melbourne , Sydney , Gold Coast and Adelaide for Rs 2.85 lakhs , all inclusive including tickets. Those wanting to see just one of these two matches - either India versus South Africa or India versus Pakistan had to pay Rs 1.35 lakhs. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
