Right place , right time for wily CAB strongman The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Mar 3 , 2015 , 10.08AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : In 2004 , when he alone used to control four votes in the BCCI , Jagmohan Dalmiya had managed to successfully stymie Sharad Pawar 's bid to wrest the president 's post from him . Apart from the CAB and NCC votes that he has always controlled by virtue of wearing two hats , Dalmiya also enjoyed a chairman 's vote as the outgoing president. When even three was not enough to stop Pawar , Dalmiya used the casting vote to oust him , somewhat unfairly. Eleven years later , and at 74 , he had just two votes prior to Monday 's AGM. But Dalmiya , who is known to play a mean hand of bridge , fooled the rival groups into believing that he was the only candidate for the BCCI 's top job who is acceptable to all . No one knows it better than Dalmiya that in today 's BCCI two votes count for little. His only advantage was that it was East Zone 's turn to nominate a president and he was not at the mercy of anyone else in case he wanted to test the electoral waters . With Sharad Pawar and Srinivasan locked in a no-holds-barred bat tle to deny the other the coveted post , Dalmiya sensed his chance and positioned himself as a perfect compromise. For someone who has fought and won most elections in BCCI 's history , Dalmiya is no stranger to electoral manipulations . But for a short spell when Prasun Mukherjee , a former Commissioner of Police , Kolkata , headed the Cricket Association of Bengal ( CAB ) in 2007-08 , Dalmiya has been the 'King ' of Eden Gardens for close to three decades now , having seized power for the first time in 1992-93.He has remained undefeated in CAB where 121 units elect him annually .Mukherjee enjoyed a brief tryst with CAB history when Dalmiya was mired in the PILCOM scam and had to step down as president. He returned in 2008 to defeat Mukherjee and reclaim his throne . His band of supporters put up a big arch in front of the Eden Gardens on Monday to welcome him. But their boss , who will also lord over BCCI now , faces huge challenges. At home Bengal barely managed to avoid relegation in Ranji Trophy in spite of Sourav Ganguly 's direct supervision. Nationally , Dalmiya 's first challenge will be to conduct IPL 8 smoothly. It will be interesting to see how he reconstitutes the IPL governing council , besides keeping rival groups in the BCCI happy. Only time will tell whether he was the right choice for the post or merely lucky to be in the right place at the right time . Dalmiya wants Sourav on tech panel Among the first things Dalmiya wants is removal of Anil Kumble from the technical committee and installing Sourav Ganguly in his place. The move has been kept on hold till September , when the next AGM will be held . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
