SA wo n't treat match against India as 'high-profile ' : Domingo The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 20 , 2015 , 01.22PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : South Africa will treat the highly-anticipated World Cup match against India with the same respect as any other international and not as a " high-profile " game , Proteas cricket coach Russell Domingo said . " We are not seeing it as a high-profile game , every game we play is. We are treating it very much in the same way that we would treat every other game , " Domingo said . The match has generated a buzz of interest and hype among the fans in Melbourne , with the 90,000-seat stadium expected to be filled to capacity . " I 've always said over the last year that every game you play for South Africa is a big game , that 's how we want to approach it , " Domingo said ahead of his team 's World Cup match against India on Sunday . The coach said that although India has never beaten South Africa in a World Cup match , past history will count for nothing as both teams look to gain momentum in Group B , which also features West Indies , Zimbabwe , Ireland , Pakistan and the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) . " India are the current world champions and are a wonderful one-day side. Whatever has happened in the past in previous World Cups will count for very little when we play here on Sunday , " the coach said . " We know that there is always a lot of hype when India are in town. They have massive support and some really big players in their side . " We are just focusing hard on our preparations. I have n't thought too much on whether we have a psychological advantage over India . The Proteas ' preparation has been boosted by the behind-the-scenes addition of former Australian batsman , Mike Hussey , who has been brought in to share his mental and tactical experience along with his in-depth knowledge of local conditions . " He is a guy that has won a World Cup as a player and has been in pressure situations in Australia and has played in these conditions for a long period of time . His presence alone will be a big form of motivation for our players , " Domingo concluded . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
