'Shami proved Muslims are Indians first' The author has posted comments on this article Sandeep Rai , TNN | Feb 17 , 2015 , 10.35AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MEERUT : Sitting in his three-room house at Sahaspur Alinagar village in Amroha district , Mohammad Tauseef , the 56-year-old father of Mohammad Shami , does not tire of recalling how his son took wicket after wicket , sending four Pakistani batsmen back in the pavilion and consolidating India 's win in Sunday 's World Cup match in Adelaide . The family had been away for a wedding function in Sambhal on Sunday , but everyone there was glued to TV , watching with undivided attention the bowling of 24year-old Shami who took four wickets , conceding just 35 runs . An ecstatic Tauseef told TOI on Monday , " Can you imagine the feelings of Indians ? This is like winning a war of sorts - my son fought like a valiant soldier. Today , I can say with pride , 'Shami 's performance proves Indian Muslims are Indian first , then Muslims. They feel the same patriotism'. " Tauseef said his big dream was to see his son playing a World Cup match against Pakistan. " My son in the India team against Pakistan in a World Cup match - that dream has now come true. " Tauseef , who owns about 12 acres of land , is the father of three sons and a daughter. He noticed his second son 's talent early. " I 'm an ardent fan of cricket myself and encouraged my son to play the game , " he said. " He showed great promise as a bowler even as a child. His greatest strength is his focus. I only needed to support his talent. " Shami 's mother Anjumara could not contain her joy either. " I was never interested in cricket. Ever since Shami began playing , though , I have not missed a single match. There are times when I can not tell which team Shami and his mates are playing against. But I enjoy the sight of our Shami in action. The IndiaPakistan match was one we had been waiting for with great eagerness. I 'm happy he made the country proud. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
