Shikhar Dhawan : The one & only shining star The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 23 , 2015 , 08.33AM IST India 's Shikhar Dhawan celebrates after scoring a century against South Africa during the Cricket World Cup Pool B match in Melbourne. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Suddenly , Shikhar Dhawan has become the mascot of India 's World Cup campaign. When he delivers , more often than not India end up winning , like was the case in the 2013 Champions Trophy. It is what the team as well as the fans expect of him. And it 's especially delightful that he put on this great show in the home town of his Aussie wife Ayesha , who he has credited with turning his career around when he has been down in the dumps. It was sort of payback time when he thrilled the adoring fans gathered at the Melbourne Cricket Ground while dominating the dangerous South African team . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 It was a big-ticket game , though the intensity was not as high as against Pakistan. Nonetheless , it was against a team that 's considered among the favourites in the World Cup , and whose bowling attack is spearheaded by fearsome bowlers like Dale Steyn and Morne Morkel . Many cricket experts were baying for Dhawan 's blood as the opener has had a miserable time in Australia before the World Cup - both in the Test series and the Tri-series that followed. There was nothing but disappointment for his supporters as innings after innings he tamely edged the ball into the slips early in the innings , so much so that one was left wondering what would India do if he fails to regain his form in time for the World Cup. However , skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni never lost faith in the southpaw . " His form is just an innings away. He has been bogged down by repeated failures , though I see nothing wrong with his technique. It is just a mental thing. All we need him to do is ex press himself ( with the bat ) in the middle. A few good shots and a few minutes of quality time in the middle and he will be back on top of his game , " the captain had said . And that 's exactly what happened as he got his first substantial score against Pakistan , making 73 which set the stage for his Delhi colleague Virat Kohli to strike a stupendous century to set up a winning total in Adelaide last Sunday. Here at MCG , it was Dhawan himself got to three figures , and against a much superior bowling attack than Pakistan 's . It was an innings of class , notwithstanding the reprieve he got when Hashim Amla dropped him on 53 . He was circumspect to begin with as the team plan was to see off the new ball without much damage . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
