Size of 2019 World Cup still to be decided : ICC The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 27 , 2015 , 12.19PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : The number of teams taking part in the 2019 World Cup has n't been finalised , the International Cricket Council said on Friday as it responded to growing criticism that its proposed cut risked damaging the sport 's development . Cricket chiefs have come under fire for their plan to reduce the number of teams involved in England in four years ' time to 10 from the 14 taking part in the ongoing tournament in Australia and New Zealand . But ICC chief executive David Richardson said on Friday : " I 've learnt never to say never to anything. I 'm sure the format of the next World Cup will be debated after this one has finished. " Ireland beat one of the elite Test match nations for the third successive World Cup when they defeated the West Indies by four wickets in their 2015 opener , while Thursday saw tournament debutants Afghanistan 's astonishingly rapid progress continue when they defeated Scotland by just one wicket to record their first World Cup win . " I 'm pleased with the performances of the qualifiers so far , but the bigger tests are still to come , " said Richardson . " The question is what do you want the World Cup to be ? Do you want it to be a jamboree of world cricket or the pinnacle of the one-day game ? " " Heading into this tournament there was criticism that the format ( where 14 teams are split into two groups of seven , with the top four in each pool qualifying for the quarterfinals ) would leave us with a long group stage at the end of which the eight teams everyone thought would get through had made it into the quarterfinals. " Asked what his feelings were following the initially improved showing by the four associate sides -- Afghanistan , Ireland , Scotland and the UAE -- taking part at the World Cup , Richardson said : " There 's a sense of relief. Our biggest concern before the tournament was that these teams would be uncompetitive. " Richardson said the thinking in reducing the number of teams had been motivated by the experience of the 1992 World Cup , when the tournament was last staged in Australia and New Zealand . According to Richardson , the 1992 event had the " best format " of any of cricket 's 11 World Cups , with the then nine competing sides all playing each other with the top four from the round-robin phase going straight into the semifinals . " The best format was 1992 , " said Richardson , South Africa 's wicketkeeper at that World Cup. " You had nine teams , then the semifinals. There was something up for grabs in every match. " However , Steve Waugh , Australia 's former World Cup-winning captain , was among those concerned by a reduction in the number of sides competing at the 2019 World Cup , telling Friday 's Sydney Morning Herald : " It is definitely important to have the minnow countries to grow the game in different markets . " The World Cup of soccer has 32 countries. Cricket needs more than eight teams playing. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
