Starc , Boult in World Cup swing to the left The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 28 , 2015 , 01.12PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : For the second time at this World Cup , Australia 's Mitchell Starc and New Zealand 's Trent Boult will be asked to deliver a killer blow that could determine their team 's fate in the final on Sunday . The two lethal left-arm fast bowlers will go head-to head at the Melbourne Cricket Ground as the tournament 's leading wicket-takers who lit up the group clash between the co-hosts exactly a month ago . Boult grabbed 5-27 to bundle Australia out for 151 in Auckland before Starc hit back with 6-28 to leave the Black Caps nine down and only managing to go past the modest target due to a Kane Williamson six . New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum said it would be hard to forget the performance of both Boult and Starc in what was a " a tremendous advertisement for the game " . " Mitchell and Boult put outstanding spells in that game and both were able to get the ball to swing quite substantially , " said McCullum. " They posed a lot of questions with wicket-taking deliveries. " The two 25-year-olds have played a major role in taking the trans-Tasman rivals to the final , with Boult 's 21 wickets in eight games just one more than Starc. But the Australian has played a match less following a washed out game against Brisbane . Boult has now taken more wickets in eight World Cup games than he did in his first 16 one-day internationals where he had only 18 scalps . The Northern Districts bowler appears to have followed in the footsteps of his hero , Pakistan 's left-arm great Wasim Akram , with consistent pace and his ability to swing the ball both ways . Boult is one of four New Zealanders , along with Williamson , Corey Anderson and Matt Henry , who will be making their first appearance at the gigantic 90,000-capacity Melbourne Cricket Ground . But he will have good memories of playing in Australia , being part of a historic New Zealand win by seven runs on his Test debut in Hobart in December , 2011. He took four wickets in the match . He began his first World Cup appearance with two wickets each in the first two games against Sri Lanka and Scotland , managed just one against England before emerging his team 's hero against Australia . In his next two encounters against Test-nations , Boult picked up four wickets against the West Indies and returned with figures of two for 53 against South Africa in the semi-final . Starc , taller than Boult , generates a lot of pace and bounce but his wicket-taking delivery is the one that he brings in to the right-hander , usually a deadly weapon for left-arm fast bowlers . He is Australia 's most prolific one-day bowler in recent times with 81 wickets in 40 matches that include three five-wicket hauls in his first 17 internationals . Starc , who has extracted plenty from responsive Australian pitches , has been equally successful on slow , flat wickets. In three recent matches in the United Arab Emirates , he claimed nine scalps against Pakistan . Starc may have failed to score a run in three visits to the batting crease in the tournament , but he is no bunny with the bat , having made 99 in the Mohali Test against India in 2013 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
