Struggling Younis denies retirement tweet The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 25 , 2015 , 10.14AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE : Out of form senior Pakistan batsman Younis Khan denied on Wednesday tweeting a plan to retire from one-day internationals after the ongoing World Cup , saying he was working hard to come good for his team . A tweet from a supposedly official Younis account on Tuesday said he was going to retire from white-ball cricket after the World Cup and continue to play Tests . However , Younis insisted he did not have a Twitter account of his own . " I have no Twitter account and it 's ( the story about his retirement ) fake , " Younis said on Wednesday . " I am working hard to come good in batting and have not decided anything like that. " Younis has been a subject of severe criticism from former Pakistan players after scores of six and nought in Pakistan 's defeats in their first two matches of the World Cup . He was asked to open the innings in Pakistan 's first match against arch-rivals India in Adelaide , a promotion which backfired . Since arriving on the New Zealand tour last month , the 37-year-old has managed just 78 runs in eight matches , including four warm-up games and two one-day internationals prior to the World Cup . Pakistan next play Zimbabwe in a Pool B fixture in Brisbane on March 1 , a game they must win to harbour realistic hopes of qualifying for the quarter-finals . Former Pakistan captain turned commentator Ramiz Raja has urged Younis to quit one-day internationals . " I beg of Younis. Thank you for your services to Pakistan cricket but please leave this ODI side now , " Raja told a Pakistan television channel on Tuesday . " I think Younis should tell the management he should be rested. " Javed Miandad , another former Pakistan captain , lashed out at team management for asking a struggling Younis to open . " What 's the rocket science of promoting Younis Khan as an opener ? , " Miandad wrote in his column for the International Cricket Council website . " If you are not an opener you tend to struggle against the new ball and if you are not in form , it only compounds your problems , " said Miandad , also a former Pakistan coach . Younis has scored 7,203 runs in 263 one-day internationals and his selection in the 15-man squad only came after he scored a century during the 3-2 one-day series defeat by New Zealand in the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) last year . Prior to that series , he was dropped from the one-day side which lost to Australia , also in the UAE . He scored 468 runs , including three hundreds and a best of 213 , in the 2-0 win over Australia in the Tests which led the selectors to recall him for the New Zealand series in the UAE . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
