Super Six : The World Cup centurions who came from nowhere The author has posted comments on this article Avijit Ghosh , TNN | Feb 26 , 2015 , 11.08AM IST UAE 's Shaiman Anwar celebrates after scoring his century during the World Cup 2015 Pool B match against Ireland at the Gabba stadium in Brisbane. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 A World Cup ton is a serious milestone in any cricketer 's career and Shaiman Anwar of UAE , on Wednesday joined a select band of unlikely centurions who surprised everybody by reaching the three-figure mark. Here is a list : Shaiman Anwar ( UAE ) : 106 vs Ireland : Brisbane , 2015 : The 19th century English poet Lord Byron once remarked , " I woke one morning and found myself famous. " Anwar , who slammed an improbable century on Wednesday , might find himself in a similar situation. The 35-year-old Sialkot-born shepherded his team out of crisis , showing maturity and class in a 79-ball century marked by a refreshing absence of inhibition , especially towards the end . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Kevin O'Brien ( Ireland ) : 113 vs England : Bangalore , 2011 : Probably the greatest ODI innings by a non-Test cricketer for a winning cause. Kevin batted as if he was playing a weekend club T20 game hoisting six sixes and 13 fours with a strike-rate touching 180. Anderson , Bresnan , Broad -he smashed them all taking the underdogs to a famous victory . Ryan ten Doeschate ( The Netherlands ) : 119 vs England : Nagpur , 2011 : Doeschate 's all-round show - his medium pace also claimed two for 47 - earned him a Man of the Match in a losing cause. The performance probably also fetched him a lucrative IPL contract with KKR . Jeremy Bray ( Ireland ) : 115 n.o.vs Zimbabwe : Kingston , 2007 : In a nerve-jangling game that ended in a tie , the Sydney-born left-handed opener carried his bat through the innings , scoring more than 50 per cent runs for his side . John Davison ( Canada ) : 111 vs West Indies : Centurion , 2003 : Davison 's knock was a starburst of audacious strokes. The opening batsman reached his century in 67 balls , smashing six sixes and eight fours. The knock ensured that Davison figures in every book on cricket trivia . Trevor Chappell ( Australia ) : 110 vs India : Nottingham , 1983 : The world remembers the youngest of the Chappell brothers for bowling an underarm delivery in a Test match on the orders of his brother Greg. Trevor 's century as an opener against India was his only real achievement on the pitch. Consider this : he played 20 ODIs and never crossed 25 in any other innings . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
