Team twists facts in Virat Kohli case The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Mar 5 , 2015 , 12.01PM IST Several journalists present there could make out that Virat Kohli was indeed using foul language and was also pointing finger at the clueless journalist. They are ready to vouch for it. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 PERTH : Dear all , There was a misunderstanding and no abusive language was used , Virat has spoken to the concerned gentlemen immediately and matter ends...Regards Dr. Baba Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 That 's a crisp 25-word message sent to the media by Team India 's media manager , Dr RN Baba , a day after the news that Virat Kohli had abused a journalist during a training session on Tuesday went viral. Baba , instead of tendering an apology , has riled the Indian media further with this weird reaction . Baba is a man of few words at the best of times and is known for his oneliners. He gives away nothing and has spent more time on keeping the media at an arm 's length from the team on this tour than to provide basic information to the huge Indian media contingent . His clarification ( which he calls clarity ) not only tells nothing but also misleads the media. Or may be , he is just not capable of choosing the right words to convey the message . The media manager claims that there was a " misunderstanding " , which was not the case . It was not a misunderstanding but a case of mistaken identity , as Kohli thought he was talking to the journalist who had broken the story of Anushka Sharma being present in Kohli 's hotel on the team 's tour of England last May. Though that report appeared months ago , Kohli has clearly been nursing a grudge and abused a journalist who had nothing to do with that report . The media manager goes on to say that " no abusive language was used " .But several journalists present there could make out that Kohli was indeed using foul language and was also pointing finger at the clueless journalist. They are ready to vouch for it . The manager again goes on to say that " Virat has spoken to the concerned gentleman " . That 's fudging facts as Virat called another journalist and told him to convey his apology as he had mistaken him for another journalist . Baba goes on to write that the " matter ends... " Again that is not the case as the aggrieved journalist 's organisation has lodged a complaint with both the BCCI and the ICC . At the moment , it is unclear where this whole controversy is headed. But there is little doubt that whatever working relation there was between the media and the team management has broken down further which is not a good sign . There is going to be an uneasy situation when the team has its final training session - before the Windies tie - at the WACA on Thursday. There is a media interaction scheduled before that. It 's going to be a tense affair for sure . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
