Teary-eyed at the World Cup The author has posted comments on this article Shiva Prasad , TNN | Mar 28 , 2015 , 11.35AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Sport is such that the heartbreak due to a loss or the exhilaration of a win can not make you hide your emotions. When the loss and disappointment come at a crucial juncture in the games , emotions are harder to rein in. While there have been many occasions when the players have been caught angry , happy and annoyed , there have only been few instances when they have let the tears flow unhindered. Here 's taking a look at some tear-jerking moments in World Cup cricket.. . So close , yet so far The South African players were dropping on the ground like dead flies. The pain of losing yet another semifinal match at the World Cup seems to have hurt them emotionally. Morne Morkel , captain AB de Villiers , Faf du Plessis and other South African players were in tears after crashing out of the ICC World Cup 2015 in a tense last-over semifinal finish at Eden Park. As much as the New Zealand fans were happy for their team making it to finals , they seem to have felt equally sorry for the South Africans . Inzi 's final walk Inzamam cried like a baby when he got out in his final match in the 2007 World Cup. The talented Pakistani cricketer cried as he left the field with a guard of honour having lost his wicket against Zimbabwe. It was his last match before retiring from the game and the big guy could n't control his tears as he was being congratulated by each and every member of the opposite team when he was leaving the ground . Yet another choke The South Africans were also driven to tears in the 2011 World Cup , when they lost a quarterfinal match against the same opposition. The whole team was inconsolable and started crying then . Kambli gets emotional One the most unforgettable scenes in Indian cricket during a World Cup has been Vinod Kambli weeping in grief when the semi-final match was handed to Sri Lanka after fans created a ruckus in the stadium. Kambli went off the field crying inconsolably , after the match 's referee , Clive Lloyd , stopped the game and awarded the match to Sri Lanka . Fiery-tongued to welled-up eyes Pakistani bowler Wahab Riaz bowled the spell of his life and put up a brave fight against the Australians after his team scored a mere 213 runs in the quarter final match during this World Cup. The tears after the game were proof of the effort he had put in and his sportsmanship , too , came to fore when he hugged and congratulated Shane Watson after the match , despite having a fiery verbal duel with him when he was bowling . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
