The curious case of Biswarup Dey The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Mar 5 , 2015 , 12.30PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Biswarup Dey has worked with Dalmiya for more than a decade but is now apparently a close confidante of Srinivasan. He has been a part of various BCCI committees in the past . MUMBAI : The shift in BCCI 's power centre from Chennai to Kolkata seems to have left N Srinivasan a bit jittery. Those in the know of developments say that after the Annual General Meeting of the Board in Chennai on Monday , the Tamil Nadu strongman approached the new BCCI president Jagmohan Dalmiya with a 'suggestion.' " He wanted Dalmiya to sign a 'resolution ' that owing to health issues , he had appointed Cricket Association of Bengal ( CAB ) treasurer Biswarup Dey as his 'executive assistant, ' which meant that Dey would assist him in executing all functions of the new BCCI chief. Dalmiya politely turned down Srinivasan 's offer , " sources said . Dey has worked with Dalmiya for more than a decade but is now apparently a close confidante of Srinivasan. He has been a part of various BCCI committees in the past . Reacting to media reports that Dey had been 'appointed ' by him , Dalmiya clarified to TOI that he had made no such decision so far. Media reports said Dey had been appointed as the new board president 's executive assistant and would act as 'a bridge between new president and Srinivasan. ' " Not till today , " Dalmiya said . The 74-year-old former BCCI and ICC chief also sought to quash rumours and perceptions that he was too old to handle the pressures of occupying BCCI 's top post . " I have been working non-stop for the past 10 days now , and even today I was at my office the whole day. I do n't know from where have questions about my health started to emerge , " Dalmiya said . " Jaggu da was hurt about Srinivasan 's reference to his health. A person of his experience and capability does n't need assistance from anyone , " said CAB vice-president Samar Pal , who was present at the AGM. Those who know Dalmiya well say the veteran is capable enough in managing the affairs of a body he has served for ages . A few Board officials , however , provided a different spin to the story. " Dey has worked with Jaggu da for almost 15 years now , so he is familiar with his style of functioning. He stuck with Dalmiya even during the latter 's worst years , when he was out of power. So , Srinivasan suggested his name. During Dalmiya 's last stint as the BCCI president , there was no IPL or the Champions League T20. The volume of work has increased many times over since. Srinivasan felt Dey would be able to help out Dalmiya immensely. His health was never an issue in this regard , " said an official . Another senior Board official felt Dey 's 'recommendation ' was based purely on talent. " He is a brilliant guy . He is a wonderful person to work with , and is extremely talented , " he said. It would be interesting to see if Dalmiya would indeed seek Dey 's skills , which he would be well aware about . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
