Ton-up Miller glad to star in South Africa win The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Feb 15 , 2015 , 03.58PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 HAMILTON : David Miller was proud have " constructed an innings " after his stunning century on World Cup debut helped South Africa get off to a winning start in Pool B against Zimbabwe on Sunday . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The Proteas were in trouble at 83 for four after losing the toss at Hamilton 's Seddon Park . But that was the end of the wicket-taking for Zimbabwe as Miller ( 138 * ) and fellow left-hander JP Duminy ( 115 * ) shared a mammoth stand of 265 -- a new fifth-wicket record for all one-day internationals -- as South Africa piled up an imposing 339 for four . Zimbabwe were well-placed at 191 for two in the 33rd over as Hamilton Masakadza ( 80 ) and Chamu Chibhabha ( 64 ) threatened before they lost eight wickets for 86 runs , with South Africa , belying their unwanted reputation as World Cup 'chokers ' , eventually winning by 62 runs . Miller faced just 92 balls , including seven fours and nine sixes , but he insisted there was more to his second ODI hundred than blazing hitting. " I just needed to construct a partnership with someone , and JP Duminy was the man today , " said Miller . " It was tough up front and a bit slow initially , but it ( the pitch ) definitely eased up towards the end. JP and I kept encouraging each other along the way and we knew how important this partnership was to the team . " There are a lot of positives I can take in how I constructed this innings , especially when rotating the strike with the spinners on. I 've been working hard on that part of my game. " South Africa captain AB de Villiers , one of several top-order batsmen who fell cheaply , was relieved to see his side launch their bid for a maiden World Cup title with a victory. " We are happy with a winning start , " he said. " Zimbabwe played some really good cricket and they put us under a lot of pressure , especially with the ball in the opening 15 overs . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
