Umpires , technology and close calls this World Cup The author has posted comments on this article Shiva Prasad , TNN | Mar 23 , 2015 , 01.14PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Both , the umpires and the technology used at the ICC World Cup 2015 have been under fire for taking some wrong decisions. Another erroneous call was made during Australia 's crucial quarterfinal match against Pakistan. Misbah-ul-Haq was saved by the fancy lights on the stumps. But even as the use of fancy technology used to make crucial cricketing decisions has been receiving both , appreciation and criticism , here 's a look at some of the close calls this World Cup.. . Flashing bails ! Australian fast bowler Josh Hazlewood might have had Pakistan reeling at three wickets in the sixth over itself , but for the latest technology. The hefty Australian let one fly down the leg side to the Pakistan captain Misbah-ul-Haq which clipped the batsman 's thigh pad , slipped to the stumps , and budged the bails. Lights flashed on the stumps and bails , but the high-on-tech bails , being heavier than they usually are , slid back into position - something that might not have happened had the bails been lighter. Misbah was saved , but the debates on technology have started again . Snicko snub Earlier on , during the India vs Pakistan match , Umar Akmal was given 'out ' by the third umpire as the ball was neatly collected by the wicketkeeper despite the snickometer not confirming an edge off the bat. While the batsman was initially ruled 'not out ' by the on-field umpire , the decision was reversed after MS Dhoni opted for the Decision Review System ( DRS ) . A catch 22 ? Ireland fielder John Mooney held on to a crucial catch - that of Sean Williams who was on 96. With Zimbabwe needing 32 to win off 20 balls and with four wickets in hand , this decision was , in fact , the one that eliminated Zimbabwe from the World Cup. Despite indications that Mooney had touched the boundary with his foot , with the ball in hand , Sean was declared out . Creased out England 's World Cup dreams came to an early end , but the team had their share of a controversial decisions going against them. All rounder Chris Jordan dived to reach his crease after an aborted attempt at a single in the dying stages of a tense showdown with Bangladesh. A close call for the third umpire to make ! Television replays showed that his bat had bounced off the ground after his dive , but the replays were n't conclusive as to whether the bat had completely off the ground or not , and he was given an out . The dead ball debate On day one of the WC , when England took on Australia , English batsman James Taylor was denied a century by an umpiring error. The confusion arose when an LBW appeal from Josh Hazlewood went against Taylor. Meanwhile , the Australian had also tried to run-out James Anderson at the other end. While Taylor called for a review and the LBW was overruled , Anderson was given a run out. But according to cricketing rules , a ball is considered 'dead ' once a batsman is given out . Some call , this Indian opener Rohit Sharma got a reprieve when he was on 90 and tried to smack a full toss from Rubel Hossain. The 'no-ball ' call went in favour of the Indian opener , denying the Bangladesh bowler a crucial wicket. Replays showed that it was a real touch-and-go situation - the decision could have gone either way. Now , whether you agree with the decision or not depends on whether you are an India supporter or a Bangladesh one . Bailed out , again ! This is a pre-Misbah event. In one of the unusual scenes on cricket field , Ireland 's Ed Joyce survived a dismissal after the ball hit the stumps , the bails did not budge from its position. In match against the UAE , Joyce missed Amjad Javed 's delivery and the ball grazed the left-hander 's off-stump. While the bail was in the air , the off-stump bail lit up , but then it settled back into its groove on the stumps . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
