Vettori focused on World Cup wins , not joining 300 club The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 6 , 2015 , 12.47PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NAPIER : Daniel Vettori can reach another milestone in his outstanding international career on Sunday when New Zealand face Afghanistan in the World Cup , but the 36-year-old 's focus is far from the achievement . The left-arm spinner is two victims shy of joining an elite club of 11 bowlers with 300 wickets in one-day internationals. Sri Lanka 's Muttiah Muralitharan heads the list on 534 . Vettori would also become just the ninth player to have taken more than 300 wickets in both ODIs and tests . " For a long time , thinking about those test records were really quite important to me so one-day cricket got put in the background a little bit , " said Vettori , who has 298 wickets in 290 matches for New Zealand and a World XI . " I came into the tournament thinking that way as well and was more interested in how we are progressing and developing as a side . " So I have n't really thought about it at all but it would be a lovely thing to achieve. " Vettori has been blighted by injury over the last two years , which has restricted his involvement in the national team , though he has been a key member of Brendon McCullum 's side in the tournament so far . His role is to tie up one end and exert scoreboard pressure on opposition batsmen while McCullum 's pace bowlers blast away at the other . Vettori said he drew immense satisfaction from the way that plan had worked in New Zealand 's last match , where he choked off the runs against a rampant Australian batting lineup before Trent Boult ripped through their order with five wickets . " With the way Trent bowled and took wickets while I tied up the runs at other end , as a combination we did a really good job for the team , " he added of the one-wicket victory over their trans-Tasman neighbours . That win meant New Zealand remained unbeaten after four games in Pool A , though they were not treating Sunday 's match at McLean Park in Napier lightly . " Afghanistan have been quite impressive , " he said of the World Cup debutants ' performances so far , which included a victory against Scotland. " They have got a balanced lineup . " That 's they best way to look at the associate teams. What are they like as a whole 11 ? And as an 11 they 're a really good team. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
