Virat Kohli watches NH 10 , loves Anushka 's role The author has posted comments on this article Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 The historic Melbourne Cricket Ground attracts tourists on a daily basis and the usual visiting hours are in the afternoon. On Tuesday , those hours coincided with the start of India 's training session and a group , comprising mostly women , sat in the stands on Level Two as their guide talked cricket. The visitors were all ears until Virat Kohli - the darling of those who love and hate him here - walked in to play football. The ladies rose to yell and clap , whistling and waving at the cricketer and all the guide could do was stare down at this young man who Australia ca n't get enough of. Anushka would n't mind this . KOHLI UNWINDS BY WATCHING NH 10 How does Virat Kohli unwind ? By watching girlfriend Anushka Sharma 's latest movie , of course. India 's star batsman decided to watch NH 10 on Tuesday before the World Cup quarterfinal against Bangladesh on Thursday. The flick features Anushka in the lead role. Later , Virat wrote this on his Twitter handle : " Just watched # NH10 and i am blown away.What a brilliant film and specially an outstanding performance by my love @ AnushkaSharma. SO PROUD : ) . " UMPIRE COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN REFERRALS ON AIR The ICC on Tuesday confirmed that the communication between field umpires and the TV umpire during decision-making will be available to the host broadcaster , Star Sports , which will put on air through the the quarterfinals , semifinals and final between March 18 to 29. " The ICC held a successful trial during the One-Day International series between Australia and South Africa in November 2014 , and it will be introduced for the final seven matches of ICC Cricket World Cup , " the governing body said. The umpire communications can be aired during umpire referrals , consultations and DRS reviews . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
