'Voice of cricket ' Richie Benaud dies at 84 NEW DELHI : Even in the virtual world , Richie Benaud made cricket more exciting and interesting. Benaud - who passed away on Friday - may have been revered for his cricket commentary but for those Indians born in or after the late 1980s , he was the voice of early cricket gaming . While previous generations revered Benaud for his cricketing prowess and role as a commentator , these late bloomers were introduced to him through cricket video games . Richie 's stint as a video-game commentator started with EA Sports Cricket 97. Dressed in a sharp white suit , an old man with white hair and wrinkled skin , with a mic in front of him , would come to life on the desktop. This was the time when computers and gaming CDs were relatively new in the country. CDs would get stuck , and often Benaud would be left repeating , " One more wicket and a rare hat-trick will be his...a rare hat-trick will be his. " Pushing the restart button would mean depriving the player of a hat-trick ! After Cricket 97 , Richie went on to lend his voice to its many sequels , including Cricket 99 , 2000 , 2002 , 2004 and Cricket 2007 , the last game in the series. His insights and expert opinions gave a real-life feel to the experience. Richie would often also share funny or interesting stories about players across generations , often regaling gamers with tales about Shane Warne 's leg spin . His words at the end of each innings in a video game would be , " And that , is the end of the innings. " With Benaud 's memorable innings having come to an end , cricket video games have lost their voice . Greg says he deserved the berating Richie gave him Former batsman Greg Chappell has admitted he deserved the berating he got from Richie Benaud during the February 1 , 1981 tie between New Zealand and Australia - following the underarm incident - which many believe tarnished the image of the sport . Speaking after Benaud 's passing on Friday , Chappell said : " Yes , he was ( right ) , as he generally was. He did n't miss too many things on the cricket field or off it. What I got that day I deserved. " Benaud had said : " I think it was a disgraceful performance from a captain who got his sums wrong today and it should never be permitted to happen again. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews http : //timesofindia.indiatimes.com/followceleb.cms ? alias = Shane Warne,Richie Benaud,Greg Chappell,EA Sports Cricket 97,EA Sports Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device .
