What a job ! Pakistan , Australia fans enjoy fab Friday The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 20 , 2015 , 12.07PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE ( Australia ) : Mohammad Anees 's desire to watch Friday 's World Cup quarterfinal between Pakistan and Australia at the Adelaide Oval may cost him his job , but he insists cricket comes first . The manager of the local Indian restaurant where the 33-year-old works had warned him not to bunk duty on Friday but the man from Lahore took the risk . " A World Cup quarterfinal , involving Pakistan and in my adopted city , is impossible to ignore , " said Anees , while waving the green Pakistan flag . " I can leave the job but I ca n't leave the match and I told my manager that in the morning. " Murtaza Jamal echoed the same feelings. " It 's a big match so we left all what we had to do and came in numbers to support our team , " said Jamal , a doctor in Melbourne . " We are here to see Pakistan win so that we can go to Sydney for the semifinal and my God it would be the biggest match -- a mouth watering Pakistan vs India. " India qualified for the March 26 semifinal at Sydney after beating Bangladesh in the quarterfinal on Thursday . Fans of Pakistan 's cricket team , one dressed as the Hulk , cheer on their team during the Cricket World Cup quarterfinal match against Australia in Adelaide. ( Reuters Photo ) New Zealand play the West Indies in the last quarterfinal in Wellington on Saturday to decide who meets South Africa in the first semifinal in Auckland on March 24 . Pakistan fan Haji Basheer flew from Melbourne early Friday to cheer his team . " I back India because my wife is from Hyderabad Deccan in India and I love Dhoni , " said Basheer , referring to the Indian captain . " It would be tough for me who to support if the semifinal is between India and Pakistan. I will have to change my seat at the SCG after every ten minutes. " Murtaza Ali has come from all the way to Islamabad , the capital of Pakistan . " It was a long journey but once I saw Pakistan qualifying for the quarterfinals , I packed my bag and could n't resist coming to Adelaide , " said Ali . Yaqoob Bhatti was dancing to the high-pitched music outside the stadium . " It 's a festival of cricket and love , " said Bhatti , who was wearing a coat , trousers and hat -- all in Pakistan green . " We are here to tell the Aussies that the Cup is ours , just like in 1992. " Patrick and Martina Julian were wearing yellow Australian jerseys in support of their team . " It 's for Australia to lose , " said Patrick. " But I do n't think it will be a cake-walk for us because Pakistan is a dangerous team. " Alex and his two sons painted their faces in yellow to support Australia . " Australia will be champions , " they screamed. " Ours is the best team and we will be better on and off the field against Pakistan , " said Alex , referring to the competition in the stands with Pakistan fans . For David and Courtney Bruce and their daughter Meredith any winner is acceptable . " We have come from London and have Pakistani neighbours so we are happy whoever wins , " said Bruce , whose daughter was exchanging high-fives with Pakistani boys . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
