Who 's saying what at the World Cup semifinals The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 25 , 2015 , 12.28PM IST Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Who 's saying what about the World Cup semifinals on Wednesday : " David will be fine. He knows the rules , as we all do , and his rules are no different than the rest of ours. " - Australia captain Michael Clarke backs temperamental opener David Warner to behave himself in Thursday 's semifinal against India in Sydney . " I heard Davey ( Warner ) say he was not going to get involved in all that stuff. Someone has got to do it and I think I might put my hand up. It 's part of the game. " - Australia fast bowler Mitch Johnson offers to step in on Warner 's behalf for sledging duties . " Look a bit of sledging is okay as long as boundaries are not crossed. The Indian team will not cross the line , but we will not back down either. " - India batsman Rohit Sharma " I talked to Dale Steyn today in Auckland and must say that my respect for him is enormous. True cricketing gentleman. " - Former England spinner Graeme Swann on encountering the South African fast bowler , whose side were knocked out of the World Cup by New Zealand . " He did say when I saw him at the end 'does this mean I get to come to Melbourne ? ' There 's a bit of irony there , I suppose. He 's shown how he important he is to us so I 'm sure he is looking forward to Melbourne. " - New Zealand skipper Brendon McCullum on semifinal star Grant Elliott , who was not selected for a 20-man group which visited the Melbourne Cricket Ground on a scouting mission in October as his chances of being picked in the World Cup squad were considered to be slim . " Hopefully we 've got one more game , one more big fairytale finish for him and then we 'll have a few beers. " - McCullum on aiming to give veteran spinner Daniel Vettori a winning send-off on Sunday . " The bigger the expectation , the more that 's asked , the bigger they stand up. I honestly do n't think this World Cup final is going to daunt these guys. " - Former New Zealand all-rounder Jacob Oram Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
