Winning World Cup will be New Zealand 's finest moment in sport : Hadlee The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Mar 27 , 2015 , 10.45PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Former New Zealand legend Richard Hadlee on Friday said that the Black Caps winning on Sunday against Australia would be the country 's finest moment in sport . Co-hosts New Zealand entered the final of the World for the first time with a victory over South Africa in the semifinals on Tuesday . They now face four-time world champion Australia in the final at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on Sunday . Cricket is a secondary sport in the rugby-mad nation but the New Zealand public has been captivated by the aggression and success of skipper Brendon McCullum 's side , whom Hadlee rates as the best side the country has ever produced for a World Cup . " It does n't matter if it 's Australia , England , India , they 're in it for the first time , they have an opportunity to create history in our game , which means they will never ever be forgotten , " Hadlee was quoted as saying by the Sydney Morning Herald . The 63-year-old said the Black Caps , who have reached their first final after six semifinal losses , had what could be a once in a lifetime opportunity to become sporting immortals . " It 's like the rugby when they won it in '87 , they 've won it twice , and we 're yet to do it. You look at the America 's Cup , great moment in our sporting history , win the cricket World Cup and it 'll be right up there with our greatest ever achievements , " he said . Hadlee , a board member of New Zealand Cricket , said in 40 years of World Cup cricket they have n't won the top prize and it 's high time to clinch it . " We 've had 40 years of World Cup cricket and to finally get across the line if we do is part of our cricketing history. " " Being a board member and involved with NZ cricket for a long time , it 'd be one of the great moments , very , very special and something I 'd love to see in my time , " Hadlee concluded . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
