Wish I had skills of Murali and Warne : Anil Kumble The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 21 , 2015 , 06.03PM IST For Kumble , the greatest batsman he has ever bowled to is Brian Lara. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Being the third highest wicket-taker in history of Test cricket is no mean achievement but former India captain Anil Kumble wishes he had the skills of his two greatest contemporaries -- Shane Warne and Muttiah Muralitharan . READ ALSO : I see a lot of myself in Ashwin , says Anil Kumble " Yeah , Warne and Murali competition , I do n't know whether I looked at it as a competition , but I could never compete with a Murali or a Shane Warne. Wish , I had the skills that they ( Warne and Murali ) had , " Kumble told the mediapersons , after being inducted into the ICC ' Hall of Fame ' at MCG on Saturday . " I 've had some great friendships with Warney and even more with Murali because we played a lot more. We saw each other a lot more. Murali would always call up and congratulate me after every milestone , and he would always possibly be 30 , 40 wickets to the next milestone. So I would also congratulate him saying , Murali , another three Test matches I 'll reach your 30 wickets , so congratulations. It was always a healthy friendship that we had , and it still continues , " said Kumble . As he introspected his 18-year journey in international cricket , starting 1990 , Kumble did attribute a lot of it to the core of the team that included him , Sachin Tendulkar , Rahul Dravid , Sourav Ganguly and VVS Laxman . " That core group stayed for a long time and we started to believe that we can win against any opposition. To this five , you can add Virender Sehwag , Javagal Srinath , Harbhajan Singh and Zaheer Khan , we had a fantastic bunch. I always felt fortunate that I only bowled to Tendulkar , Sehwag or Dravid in the nets and not in international matches. Actually , Tendulkar , Dravid or Sehwag later kind of became my " coach " as they would tell me after playing me in the nets as to where I was going wrong and stuff like that , " Kumble recollected . Shane Warne and Muttiah Muralitharan were Anil Kumble 's greatest contemporaries. ( AFP Photo ) For him , the greatest batsman he has ever bowled to is Brian Lara and he recalled one incident . " Brian Lara was blessed with the ability to hit four or five shots of the same delivery. Once right here at the MCG , during a match played in memory of victims affected by Tsunami , I was bowling to Lara. I bowled a delivery where he charged down the track after I had flighted one. Once he came down the track , he realized that he had misjudged the trajectory of ball. Any other player would have missed it and got out. But Lara swept that delivery for boundary and I knew that nothing could be done , " one could see the admiration in his eyes . He spoke highly of Harbhajan Singh with whom , he had forged a successful combination for close to a decade . " Initially , it was Venkatapathy Raju , Rajesh Chauhan was a part of our group , Hirwani very briefly , Sunil Joshi later on , and then Bhajji , of course , close to 10 years that we played together. And sometimes , we competed against each other , so that was a bit of a challenge. Whenever we toured abroad where they could only accommodate one spinner , so it was always either him or me , so that was a bit of a tough ask . " Even in ODIs , it became that way. Yes , you always feel that you should be playing in every game , but it was a great healthy competition with Bhajji actually bowling exceptionally well on that Australian series in India when I was injured. I believe that spinners like fast bowlers also hunt in pairs . For Kumble , the advantage that he had was having captains , who were not imposing and let him play with a free mind . " In terms of captains , I think I 've had some fantastic ones right through my career. I think all captains under whom I played , did n't really bother coming and telling me what fields to set. They did n't give me instructions . " I never bowled with the captain 's instructions. It was always the other way around where I had the freedom of setting my own field , bowling the way I did , so that relationship was there right from the first Test match that I played until , of course , I captained in the last Test. So right through , whether it was Azhar , Sachin , Sourav , Rahul , I think all of them -- I had a great relationship with all of them. Yes , there were disagreements but it is bound to happen when you play for 18 years , " he said with a sense of pride . Another feat Kumble feels proud about is the century he scored in the Oval Test against England , back in 2007 . " The Test hundred will always remain special , because I believed that I could get a Test hundred. It took me 117 Test matches to realize my batting potential. In fact , just before the Test match , we had a team meeting where I openly said that I was disappointed with our batting line-up because we had great legends and not a single century on that tour. I did n't realize that I had to show them how to get a hundred , " he laughed . " It was something very special. You could see the faces of my colleagues , how happy they were , more than me , when I scored that hundred , " he said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
