World Cup 2015 : 7 reasons why Dhoni is captain cool The author has posted comments on this article Shinjini Banerjee , TNN | Mar 13 , 2015 , 11.55AM IST Dhoni prepares to bat during a training session. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 By beating West Indies in the ongoing World Cup , Mahendra Singh Dhoni not only sealed the quarterfinal berth , but also became India 's most successful World Cup captain. A born leader , he 's labelled as the biggest superstar of world cricket after Sachin Tendulkar . Here 's a lowdown on why Mahi is one of the best skippers in the world . Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 1. A COOL CUSTOMER He ai n't called Captain Cool for nothing.He does n't melt under pressure. His calm temperament has not only won him matches , but has also helped him cope with heartbreaking losses. Never involved in heated arguments , he rarely shows his emotions on the field. He reportedly ensures a peaceful environment in the dressing room as well . 2. A TEAM PLAYER He 's a man who always puts the team 's interest ahead of him. He rarely promotes himself up the batting order to let the others play and score runs. But when the team is in trouble , he always engineers and paces his innings beautifully and builds partnerships . 3. BACKS YOUNG TALENT The youngsters who play under him say that Dhoni Bhai always backs them.What 's more , he always recognises young talent and gives them opportunities.During the 2011 World Cup , when fast bowler Ashish Nehra could n't perform well against South Africa and was feeling low , Dhoni asked him not to lose hope and give his best in the upcoming matches.Consequently , Nehra put up an awesome show against Pakistan in the semi-final . 4. ALWAYS HAS AN ALTERNATIVE PLAN MS always has a plan B and is a quick thinker and decision maker on the field. If one tactic fails , he has another game plan ready. When one delivery does n't work , he advises both his spinner and pacer what to bowl instead . MS Dhoni shares a lighter moment with Virat Kolhi during a training session. ( AFP Photo ) 5. GAME CHANGING TACTICS Mahi is known for his unbelievable match winning tactics , proof of which was seen in the 2007 T20 World Cup , when he gave inexperienced pacer Joginder Sharma the ball in the last over. And it clicked ! India won the tournament. Dhoni followed the same policy by giving Ravichandran Ashwin , the ball in the last over of the 2013 Champions Trophy Final , and India won it. The man with the Midas Touch is known to pull a rabbit out of his hat every time . 6. SPRINGS SURPRISES For instance , in the 2011 World Cup , who would have thought that an out-of-form Mahi would come to bat at no. 5 before the man-in-form Yuvraj Singh ? He knew the team needed him and he did n't think twice. Not only did he become the Man of the Final , but also hit the winning runs in the form of a big six in style. No one knows what is going on in his mind. His unpredictability always works in his favour . 7. EXTREMELY FOCUSED AND FEARLESS Dhoni hardly reacts to sledging. He is very alert when it comes to his game.According to reports , once when a bowler abused him , he sensibly asked the umpire to sort out the matter instead of directly answering back. Dauntless and relaxed , he likes playing his natural game in any situation and is a trend-setter . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
