World Cup 2015 : Aaqib Javed criticises ICC 's plans , questions West Indies ' slump The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 23 , 2015 , 09.45PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE : UAE coach Aaqib Javed , a member of Pakistan 's 1992 World Cup-winning team , has criticised the ICC 's plan to reduce the number of teams in next World Cup from 14 to 10 , and questioned the downward spiral of full members like the West Indies and Bangladesh in recent years . The 2019 World Cup in England is expected to feature the eight top-ranked nations along with two other teams who will come through a qualifying tournament in Bangladesh . " I think the gap is narrowing now and every Associate is pushing the Full Members. I am really surprised by the decision the ICC already made that the next World Cup would be 10 teams , " Javed was quoted as saying by 'National' . The 42-year-old former Pakistan pacer added , " Which 10 teams ? If you look at the performances from some teams , their graph has been going down , like West Indies , Bangladesh and Zimbabwe. I am not just talking about in this World Cup. Overall , what have they achieved in the past 10 years ? Why ca n't there be pressure on them to improve , or go down ? " Javed , who would normally bowl first or second change for Pakistan in the early and mid-1990s , has taken 182 wickets in 163 ODIs and 54 in 22 Tests . " It is very unusual if you compare it to other sports. Sports need competition and opportunities for everyone. What is there for us in Associate cricket ? Ireland have been doing so well for the past 10 years , but have n't gained anything. When it comes to open series , nobody wants to play them. Nobody wants to play Associate teams . " If after two years there was promotion and relegation , how much interest would be created ? This is not rocket science . " Who are the ICC protecting and why are they protecting them ? Forget about audience , it is about competition. Once you are a Test nation , you are a Test nation forever , whatever you do. There is no pressure on them. " The ongoing tournament features four Associate nations in UAE , Ireland , Afghanistan and Scotland . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
