World Cup 2015 : AB is the Neo of the cricketing world , says Steyn The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 6 , 2015 , 10.14AM IST South Africa 's AB de Villiers hits a boundary during the ICC World Cup 2015 match against the West Indies at the Sydney Cricket Ground. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : South Africa captain AB de Villiers ' batting blitzkriegs in the last two months have been so good that even his own teammates are in awe of them , fast bowler Dale Steyn said on Friday . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 De Villiers has scored 241 runs in four innings at the tournament , including a stunning 162 not out against West Indies from 66 balls. He has a strike rate of almost 162 and has the most sixes ( 11 ) and fours ( 22 ) in South Africa 's vaunted lineup . Prior to the tournament , he belted a 31-ball century against West Indies , smashing the old record for the fastest ODI ton by five balls . " Oh , man , it 's like watching 'The Matrix ' movie , really , " Steyn told reporters in Auckland on Friday , a day before his side face Pakistan in their Pool B clash at Eden Park . " There is Neo for you right there. He just does n't understand how good he is . " I think he 's actually figured out now ... there is no roof or cap on how good he can possibly be . " He 's one of those players that 's proven in this year especially just how good he is. I think he 's starting to realise that now . " Bowlers are struggling to find a way to get this guy out. The only way to get him out is when he gets himself out. " Steyn felt sorry for some of his fellow bowlers having to face his captain , though he said if he had to bowl to de Villiers he had a cunning plan that may work . " I 'd trip him on his way out of the hotel ... and hope that he breaks his ankle , " Steyn said while laughing . " He 's a phenomenal player and seeing the ball like no other player is seeing a cricket ball before , and he 's playing shots that I do n't think most people have seen before . " Hopefully he comes out and executes those same skills tomorrow and going forward in this competition. " While Steyn had played against Ireland in Canberra on Tuesday , he said he had been distracted for much of the week with bushfires in Cape Town threatening to engulf his home . He received about 80 messages and 30 missed calls one night from friends looking after his house , who relayed they had been given five minutes to pack what they could carry and get out . " I 've never been more scared in my life , " he said . " I 'm sitting halfway across the world , and everything that I 've ever earned or gotten in my life ...is in that house . " It 's a pretty tough time back home right now. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
