World Cup 2015 : Afghan 's Hassan in Wall Street Journal for somersault antics The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 26 , 2015 , 01.31PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 DUNEDIN : Afghanistan 's latest cricket sensation Hamid Hassan found his way into the pages of the popular US daily the 'Wall Street Journal ' after his somersaulting antics post Kumar Sangakkara 's wicket in their match against Sri Lanka caught the attention of one and all . With a bandana and a war paint on both cheeks , Hassan , in his Rambo-like appearance , is not only a hit with fans and the photographers but also with his World Cup opponents , who are wary of his wicket-taking abilities . With a little over 6 feet in height , his fast-arm suprises batsmen as his 3-45 gave the Angelo Mathews-led team a scare in the pool game after Lanka managed to scrape to their 233-run target in 48.2 overs with only four wickets in hand on Sunday . The pacer continued his somersaulting celebration in the next game after pulling off an athletic diving catch to send Scotland 's Josh Davey on his way . Hassan also stood tall with an unbeaten 15 to see Afghanistan register their first World Cup win against Scotland today . After Samiuallah Shenwari departed post a fighting 96 that set up the game for the Afghans , Hassan , who had earlier bagged a wicket , stitched an unbeaten 19-run last-wicket stand with Shapoor Zadran ( 12 not out ) to give the fans a lot to cheer about . With two losses and a win from three games , the Mohammad Nabi-led side has certainly managed to impress one and all in their maiden 50-over World Cup appearance . Hassan , 27 , in particular has managed to carve his own niche after picking up five wickets from three games so far . It has been a long road to Australia and New Zealand for Afghanistan. The national cricket team was only formed in 2001 , and secured qualification for the 50-over showpiece event after beating Kenya into second spot in the World Cricket League championship . And after years of following heroes from their neighbouring cricket giant Pakistan , with the likes of Imran Khan and Wasim Akram adorning the walls of many a hair salon in the war-ravaged nation , Afghanistan finally have some of their 'own ' stars in Zadran and Hassan . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
