World Cup 2015 : After match , Dale and myself will be best buddies again , says Kohli The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 21 , 2015 , 02.34PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : They will not give each other an inch of space when India and South Africa lock horns in a World Cup match on Sunday but Virat Kohli feels that once the game is over , he will again be " best buddies " with his former Royal Challengers Bangalore teammate Dale Steyn . " I played with him ( Steyn ) in RCB for three years , and we became such good friends that we 've carried on our friendship after that , as well. Whenever I meet him , he gives me the biggest hug , and it 's been consistent throughout. Even if we have to play a game before that , we are always really friendly , " Kohli said about his close friend . " We know on the field , come game time , I 'll be looking to dominate him and he 'll be looking to dominate me , which is a mutual respect kind of a thing , I guess. Whatever is said and done at that point of time , it 's taken in good sportsman 's spirit because we know after the game we 'll obviously be best buddies again , " Kohli said about the world 's No 1 fast bowler . For Kohli , Steyn is the " special one " even though he shares a good rapport with a lot of South African players . " I think I 've shared a great friendship with a lot of South African players over the years , and Dale has to be one of the more special ones. " Kohli said he respects Steyn 's passion as he also has a similar streak in him . " He 's a completely different person on the field , which is absolutely fine. He 's very aggressive. He 's obviously very passionate about playing for South Africa. There 's a good reason why he 's the best bowler in the world for a while now , and he 's so consistent because he has that mentality , and off the field , he 's a completely different person . " He jokes around , he laughs all the time , and you would n't know that unless you know him. I think it 's pretty similar with me and him , how we are on the field and off the field. That 's why I think we get along really well together , " Kohli said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
