World Cup 2015 : Aggression key against West Indies , says Ashwin The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Mar 6 , 2015 , 08.35AM IST Ravichandran Ashwin said that the only way to tackle the mercurial batting , which seeks to put you off , was to be aggressive , go for their wickets and take them out of equation at the earliest. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 PERTH : The Indians will be aggressive and go for the jugular against the West Indies which has some dynamic and unpredictable batsmen like Chris Gayle in the line-up . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Indian off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin said that the only way to tackle the mercurial batting , which seeks to put you off , was to be aggressive , go for their wickets and take them out of equation at the earliest . " It 's not just Chris Gayle , it 's any other batsman. Anybody who attacks wants to put you off your game. I always aim at getting the wicket of any batsman that I think could be dangerous. Once you get them out , the game will turn your way. I mean it 's a pretty simple plan , " Ashwin said on the eve of the match . He said the team needs to have a plan to deal with batsmen , both in powerplay and in the slog overs to contain them. " We need to restrict hitting to one side of the ground because you have only three fielders outside the ring and to maximize those particular fielders is to ensure the hitting to that side of the wicket. If there are pockets that open up , then that 's the time you can attack. That 's the phase when you can pick up a few wickets too , " he said. , On his own performance he said : " It is quite heartening to get wickets. It is always good to be among wickets and perform well. It gives you a lot of confidence. But in terms of preparation for the game , it 's going to be the same because we prepare for every team I like we prepare for the big teams. It 's not going to be very different. We 're pretty confident about executing our plans tomorrow . " I think my journey as a t bowler in international cricket has been a huge learning curve. There are times when you think you 're bowling really well and you end up learning even more in that particular phase. So you ca n't really say you 're bowling at your best. There have been times when I thought I was bowling at my best , but immediately like in 10 months or a year 's time I always found there was another gear to go up. You never know with this game. If you 're open to learning , I think the summit is very high. " On Anil Kumble as role model , Ashwin said : " I started bowling spin pretty late in my career. I was more of a batsman until the 1990s. When I started bowling spin , it was all about Kumble and Harbhajan Singh. I have looked up to them. I 've always maintained that Kumble was one of my big heroes. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
