World Cup 2015 : Angry Pakistan fans smash TVs , stage mock funeral The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 20 , 2015 , 06.27PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ISLAMABAD : Angry Pakistan cricket fans smashed TVs and staged a mock funeral for the team Friday after poor batting and sloppy catching saw them dumped out of the World Cup . A limp display with the bat saw Pakistan bowled out for just 213 and co-hosts Australia chased the target down with relative ease to win by six wickets despite a fiery spell from fast bowler Wahab Riaz . News channels showed footage of fans smashing up a television set in anger at the team 's elimination . In the central Pakistani city of Multan around 50 fans organised a symbolic funeral procession through the streets , complete with a coffin with bats on top . Multan 's residents are much given to protests and staged a similar event after Pakistan 's humiliating 150-run defeat to the West Indies earlier in the tournament . Downcast fans in Islamabad slammed the side 's poor fielding , after two simple chances went down at crucial stages in the Australian innings . " They did their best but they get pressurised easily , that 's why they made a lot of mistakes in their fielding , " Mubashir Khan told AFP . " Two men dropped catches , that 's the main reason for our loss. " But there was praise for Riaz and the other bowlers , particularly as the side lost several key players to injury and suspension in the months leading up to the World Cup . " I 'm really disappointed. But our bowlers played really well and we reached the quarter finals , " fan Jahanzeb told AFP . " This team is our B-team. Our main players are not there. Overall it 's a good performance , but today , it 's really bad. " The defeat was set to bring the curtain down on the one-day international careers of captain Misbah-ul-Haq and big-hitting all-rounder Shahid Afridi . The hashtag # ThankYouMisbah was trending on Twitter in Pakistan in the hours after the match as fans hailed the 40-year-old captain , whose steadying influence has pulled the side out of trouble more than once . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
