World Cup 2015 : As spin comes to the fore , Sri Lanka wait for Herath The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 17 , 2015 , 09.52AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : When it 's Sydney , a word invariably keeps playing in the background - spin. And that 's an area Sri Lanka are hoping to improve in before their quarterfinal game against South Africa. Rangana Herath , their No. 1 spinner , was hit on his left hand during the England game a couple of weeks back and has n't played a single game since . On Monday , Herath did n't bowl a single delivery and it was chairman of selectors Sanath Jayasuriya who doubled up as the leftarm spinner at the nets. But as Herath was leaving the ground , he told TOI : " It 's getting better. I should be OK to play the match. " Jayasuriya , too , said he is hoping Herath will be fit for the big game. " He is recovering fast and his stitches have been taken off.Let 's see how he shapes up by Tuesday. We believe he might be able to play the game , " Jayasuriya said . If Herath is unable to play , off-spinner Sachitra Senanayeke will hold on to his place. Sri Lanka , quite clearly , have better depth - when compared to South Africa - in the spin department , but Jayasuriya did n't specify that they are looking to beat South Africa with spin. " I wo n't say that , we have both pace bowlers and spinners. If we have to beat them , all the departments will have to function well , " he said . The form of Kumar Sangakkara is obviously a huge boost for the Lankans and they are also hoping that Lasith Malinga hits the right line and length during the game. The 'slinger ' was the last man to leave the nets on Monday after an extended practice session under the supervision of bowling coach Chaminda Vaas. " South Africa are a very strong team but we are no pushovers. The composition of this team reminds me of our 1996 World Cup winning side and it should make for a really good game , " Jayasuriya added . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
