Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 There were five ducks in the innings , with fast bowler Pat Cummins , recalled in place of dropped spinner Xavier Doherty , taking three for 42 in seven overs . Matt Machan , who plays for English county side Sussex , top-scored with 40 and Calum MacLeod made 22 but at 79 for seven there was a real chance Scotland would be dismissed for under 100 . However , bold hitting from the ninth-wicket duo of Josh Davey ( 26 ) and Michael Leask ( 23 not out ) took the non-Test side to three figures . Australia captain Michael Clarke -- passed fit after missing training in midweek to rest his hamstring injury -- then decided to give himself some batting practice ahead of the quarterfinal in Adelaide on March 20 by making a run-a-ball 47 opening the innings . There was a worrying moment for Australia , when with 39 still needed for victory , rain stopped play . But when the match resumed , new batsman David Warner -- usually an opener - settled Australia 's nerves with a straight six and a four off the first two balls he faced . Warner finished on 21 not out , off just six balls , while James Faulkner ( 16 not out ) ended the match with a six as Australia finished on 133 for three in 15.2 overs . Scotland have still to win a World Cup match , having now taken part in three editions -- a run of 14 games -- and all four of their previous one-day internationals against Australia had ended in thumping defeats -- by six wickets in 1999 , 203 runs in 2007 , 189 runs in 2005 and 200 runs in 2013 . Opener Kyle Coetzer -- who made 253 runs in Scotland 's first four matches of this tournament -- fell for nought , his second successive duck , when his flat-footed drive off Starc was caught by Steven Smith at third slip . Wickets fell in clusters and 36 for two became 37 for three when Scotland captain Preston Mommsen fell for a second-ball duck when he mishooked a Shane Watson bouncer to Starc at deep backward square leg . Then 50 for four was soon transformed into 51 for five when offspinner Glenn Maxwell struck first ball , Richie Berrington chipping tamely to cover . Left-hander Machan 's enterprising 35-ball innings , including six fours , ended when he turned a short ball from Cummins to James Faulkner at long leg . Scotland were 130 for eight off 25 overs when rain fell and their innings was finished four balls after the resumption , with Davey and Iain Wardlaw ( nought ) both undone by Starc yorkers . Australia lost Aaron Finch early in their chase before Clarke and Watson ( 24 ) put on 58 for the second wicket . Watson became Davey 's 15th wicket of the World Cup when he top-edged a sweep and was caught by wicketkeeper Matthew Cross . Clarke 's quickfire innings , including seven fours and two sixes , came to end when a pull off Wardlaw was brilliantly caught by the diving Leask , running round the boundary . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
