World Cup 2015 : Glenn Maxwell ton fires Australia past Sri Lanka The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 8 , 2015 , 05.13PM IST With this win , Australia , the co-hosts of the World Cup 2015 , have qualified for the quarterfinals. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Australia stormed into the ICC World Cup 2015 quarterfinals with a 64-run victory over Sri Lanka , fired by a spectacular maiden one-day international century from Glenn Maxwell at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Sunday . Scorecard Sri Lanka signalled that they are also in fine form for the knockout stages by having a good crack at what would have been a record run chase with Kumar Sangakkara becoming the first man to score three successive centuries at a World Cup . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 They were always up against it after Maxwell 's 53-ball 102 had helped Australia to 376/9 , however , and it is the co-hosts who are now almost certain to finish second in Pool A and avoid defending champions India or South Africa in the quarterfinals . On a night when the 40,000 crowd were thrilled by a feast of batting , it was Maxwell 's deployment of the full array of shots in his prodigious armoury that proved decisive . His hundred came off 51 balls , just one shy of the record for the quickest World Cup century , and he shared a 160-run partnership with Shane Watson , who hit 67 to celebrate his recall to the team . Maxwell was dropped by a back-peddling Sangakkara on 95 and there was a nervous wait on 99 , his chance of sharing the World Cup record with Irishman Kevin O'Brien disappearing when the umpire ruled a leg bye off the 50th ball he faced . The century came up soon enough with two runs to mid-off , though , and his emotional celebration after reaching the milestone in his 43rd one-day innings was a graphic illustration of what it meant to a player often dismissed as a show-pony . Steve Smith ( 72 ) and skipper Michael Clarke ( 68 ) had earlier steadied the innings with a partnership of 134 after openers David Warner ( nine ) and Aaron Finch ( 24 ) had been dismissed inside the first 10 overs . Maxwell hit 10 fours and four sixes in his innings and the pyrotechnics continued when Sri Lanka came out to bat , Tillakaratne Dilshan setting the tone by spectacularly hitting six fours off Mitchell Johnson 's third over . Johnson had already dismissed Lahiru Thirimanne caught behind for one in his opening over to bring Dilshan and Sangakkara together at the crease . While their 130-run partnership continued , it looked like Sri Lanka had a chance but once James Faulkner ( 3-48 ) trapped Dilshan in front for 62 , it looked like an uphill struggle . Sangakkara had already become only the second player after Sachin Tendulkar to score 14,000 runs in one-day internationals and was not going to be denied his century , which he reached in as many balls with two runs to backward square . He departed soon afterwards for 104 , leaving Dinesh Chandimal , who hit 52 off 24 balls before retiring hurt , and Angelo Mathews ( 35 ) to lead the rearguard action . They were finally dismissed for 312 after 46.2 overs . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
