World Cup 2015 : Australia full of confidence despite NZ loss , says Clarke The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 3 , 2015 , 01.54PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 PERTH : Australia 's World Cup loss to New Zealand was disappointing but no wake-up call , according to captain Michael Clarke , who said his team remains full of confidence despite the frustrating start to their campaign . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Saturday 's defeat in Wellington has left Australia fourth in Pool A , after an opening win over England and a match washed out against Bangladesh . The co-hosts ' tournament has also been affected by injuries , with Clarke 's recovery from hamstring surgery overshadowing the team 's preparations and fast-bowling all-rounder James Faulkner sidelined with a side strain . Paceman Pat Cummins will miss the team 's match against Afghanistan in Perth on Wednesday with another side strain , while media reports of tension between Clarke and coach Darren Lehmann have added additional distractions . Australia 's batsmen were skittled for 151 runs in the much-hyped clash against in-form New Zealand before paceman Mitchell Starc took six wickets to turn what could have been a thrashing into a nerve-jangling one-wicket loss . Asked whether the defeat to their highly-fancied neighbours was a wake-up call , Clarke on Tuesday told reporters in Perth : " I 'll say , no , I do n't think so . " I think we got beaten by a very good team. Obviously , it 's always tough to beat New Zealand in their own backward . " It 's always tough to compete against New Zealand no matter where they play , and they 're playing really good cricket at the moment . " I believe in confidence , and I think we 've been playing some really good one-day cricket over the past 12 months to two years , " Clarke added . " I think the boys did a fantastic job in the tri-series ( against England and India ) , so I think our players are full of confidence , and I think that 's how you play your best cricket . " If you 're confident , you back your own ability , and you walk out and have the freedom to enjoy the brand of cricket you play. I think that 's what we 'll continue to do. " While unlikely to dent their prospects of making the knockout rounds , the defeat by New Zealand has added urgency to Australia 's clash at the WACA against non-test playing nation Afghanistan , who celebrated an emotional first win in their maiden World Cup against fellow minnows Scotland . The International Cricket Council has drawn criticism for plans to cut the next World Cup to 10 teams from the current 14 , which could hurt Afghanistan 's chances of qualifying . Clarke said Afghanistan had been " great " for the tournament . " I think it 's wonderful for the game of cricket , " he added . " I think they 've shown the world on this stage that they 've got a really good team and they can perform at this level against the best. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
