World Cup 2015 : A win against South Africa would make life easier for India in quarters The author has posted comments on this article Avijit Ghosh , TNN | Feb 20 , 2015 , 09.50PM IST Winning the South Africa match would almost seal the deal for Dhoni and company. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Last Sunday Team India 's demolition of Pakistan sparked off the usual frenzy of firecrackers nationwide. It was a crucial win for India. But the Group B match against South Africa coming Sunday is equally , if not more , important to the World Cup ambitions of the Men in Blue . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Here 's why. Any team from Group B would like to avoid Australia and New Zealand , the likely toppers from Group A in the quarters. Both are hosts and in irresistible form. One of the major perks of finishing among the top two in Group B is that you are likely to run into either England or Sri Lanka or even Bangladesh . England have been mauled by Australia and New Zealand in their first two games and could be in serious danger of bowing out in the group stage unless they win their remaining games. As former England all-rounder Ian Botham said on television on Friday , being savaged by the Kiwis might have affected them " upstairs. " In this backdrop , India would prefer to face Sri Lanka/England/Bangladesh , rather than Aus/NZ - and winning the South Africa match would almost seal the deal for MS Dhoni and company. But that would be anything but easy . Despite the scare from Zimbabwe , captain AB de Villier 's team is one of the most balanced and classy in the tournament. They are a superb fielding unit too. Unlike Pakistan , South Africa will not drop Virat Kohli twice. India 's most impactful batsman was let off on 3 and 76 by the generous neighbours . Pakistan were missing three of their most feared bowlers ( Saeed Ajmal , Mohd Hafeez and Junaid Khan ) for a variety of reasons , including injury. Yet Misbah 's men managed to peg India back in the slog overs. In the last four overs , India scored a mere 17 runs and lost four wickets. In the process , the brittleness of its lower middle order was exposed . In the game against Pakistan , Umesh Yadav got away with fairly decent figures of two for 50. But he continues to bowl one or two boundary balls every over. De Villiers , Miller , Amla and the rest are going to come much harder at him . Even Ravindra Jadeja , rusty after returning from a shoulder injury , has hardly looked the same bowler ( 10-0-56-1 ) who had bamboozled Michael Clarke two years ago. Against Pak , he looked the least effective of all and was unable to fashion a decent hit during his five-ball stay . It is interesting how Jadeja was slipped into the playing XI. Right through the triangular ODI series just before the World Cup , Axar Patel was often the tidiest bowler in the team. Unlike Jadeja , there was incisiveness to his bowling . In the only game Jadeja played in the series , he gave away 62 without taking a wicket. The only match he succeeded as a bowler was the last warm-up game against Afghanistan where he took two for 38. Interestingly , Axar was kept out of this game . Much of India 's performance against South Africa would depend on how its spinners perform against De Villiers ' side. The South Africans have always been vulnerable to good spin bowling . It remains to be seen whether India go in with a third spinner or even consider Axar as a second spinner. As one pointed out earlier , there 's plenty at stake . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
