India 's Ajinkya Rahane celebrates his fifty as South Africa 's Morne Morkel watches during the Cricket World Cup Pool B match in Melbourne. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Morne Morkel , the tall and fit-again South African seamer , stood a second more than he should have , and stared at Ajinkya Rahane after pitching a short one outside off. The India No. 4 had looked to play it on the back foot but quickly checked himself and left the ball alone as it rose alarmingly. It was a crucial stage of the innings - the batting powerplay was coming to an end and India were 214-2 in the 39th over. Shikhar Dhawan was going strong but for India to post a healthy target against the strong South Africans , the Delhi opener needed a confident batting partner at the other end . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Rahane , the man sent to do the job , did n't bother returning Morkel 's stare . Instead , the batsman stared down , pondering over perhaps what Morkel would do next. Maybe a yorker after the bouncer ? The tall pacer strode in once again. A fuller one followed , almost an attempted yorker. Rahane was ready. He stepped forward and scooped it over the scooped it over the bowler 's head for a boundary . This time , Morkel did n't stand around that extra second. It was a reply that signified not just the batsman 's intent but his temperament too. Add to that h i s skill and you had a formidable package to deal with . Rahane was batting on 40 when Morkel gave him that stare. Rahane responded by stepping up the tempo to help India get past the 300-run mark. MS Dhoni had sent Rahane at No. 7 against Pakistan , where he was bowled for a duck. The skipper gave him a promotion this time and he played perhaps the best One-day innings of his career so far . Ever since international debut , a notable trait in this Mumbai boy 's batting has been his sense of occasion. In the limited opportunities that he has got till now , he has delivered on the big stage. He does not get fazed easily and can keep himself focused on the job in the midst of chaos . On Sunday , he showed he also had big strokes to go with his solid technique. Sixes came off Wayne Parnell , Imran Tahir and Dale Steyn 's bowling , the last one being the best of the lot . He also drove , pulled and cut with aplomb , taking on the SA attack with a mix of patience and aggression. Going further into the tournament , eyes will be on him every time he steps out with the bat . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
