World Cup 2015 : Best victory celebrations The author has posted comments on this article Mihir Bhanage & Swasti Chatterjee , TNN | Mar 17 , 2015 , 12.41PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 The cricket fan frenzy reaches its peak during the World Cup tournament every four years and this year is no different. While fans celebrate wildly outside the field , the on-field antics of some cricketers give tough competition to their celebrations. From Dwayne Bravo 's cool moves to Trent Johnston 's chicken dance , here are some memorable victory celebrations of cricketers.. . Dale Steyn : Aggression comes naturally to this South African fast bowler. And that is quite evident in his wicket-taking celebration. It 's either a Hulk-like muscle-flex or fist pumping that Steyn prefers for his celebration . Chris Gayle : After Psy broke records with his Gangnam style dance , Chris Gayle immortalised Psy 's trademark step during the IPL and international matches as well. Oppa Gayle-storm style ! Virat Kohli : Gayle did the Gangnam style after West Indies won the World T20 Championship and his friend and IPL teammate Virat Kohli repeated the same after India won the Champions Trophy in 2013 . Shikhar Dhawan : Though Shikhar Dhawan is n't that impromptu when it comes to dancing post victory , his teammate Kohli ensures that he shakes a leg. The latest was Dhawan 's Champions Trophy dancing tryst with Suresh Raina and Irfan Pathan . Trent Johnston : The Irish players have quite a few funny dances to their credit. While Dave Langford-Smith 's Ferret dance is widely popular , Johnston 's trademark chicken dance was a spectacle to watch when he played . Dwayne Bravo : This West Indian is a Gangnam style companion of Gayle and does n't shy away from dancing. Even off the field his moves have got him a couple of film offers in India. Bravo was recently seen in the song Yenda in a Tamil film where he did a Western number . Shahid Afridi : Afridi has n't earned the nickname Boom Boom Afridi overnight. He is consistent in his batting and bowling , which results in the crowd getting to see his Mr X celebration-pose quite often . Adam Gilchrist : Another Gangnam enthusiast , Gilchrist broke into the jig after Harbhajan Singh was dismissed during an IPL match. In an interview he said , " Harbhajan took my wicket many times , so I just wanted to mimic the reaction. " Well mimicked , we must say . Team England : The English team broke into a Sprinkler dance for the Barmy Army after winning against Australia in the Ashes series in 2010. The Barmy Army is a group of English cricket fans that arranges touring parties for some of its members to follow the English cricket team on overseas tours . Harbhajan Singh : This Indian off-spinner invented the Bhangnam style , on the lines of Gayle 's Gangnam moves. The Bhangra-Gangnam combo gave tough competition to Gayle 's moves , which had kicked-off a dancing trend in the sixth season of IPL . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
