World Cup 2015 : Boult stars in thrilling 'local derby ' as Kiwis struggle to narrow win The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 1 , 2015 , 09.23AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : There was a deathly silence at the boisterous Eden Park. New Zealand 's dream was on the verge of becoming a nightmare. It was all engineered by a tall man in the 'hated ' canary yellow - Mitchell Starc . The Aussie paceman was swinging the ball at a great pace and the Kiwis had crashed from 131-5 to 146-9 while chasing 152. The 'local derby ' had truly lived up to its billing . But for the Kiwis , there was still one man standing - one they call 'the best batsman in the world'. The kangaroos ' tails were up but Kane Williamson ( 45 not out ) looked ice cool under pressure . No. 11 Trent Boult played out two deliveries of Starc 's ( 628 ) ninth over and Williamson knew he had to finish the job , now . The mild-mannered right-hander came on the front foot the first ball he faced off Pat Cummins ' next over and hit it over the bowler 's head into the stands . Eden Park exhaled and then exploded. New Zealand had beaten Australia by one wicket in their first meeting in four years at home . With four wins on the trot in this World Cup , they are looking good to top the group. Australia , on the other hand , have a bit of catching up to do with only one win in three games . The best game of the tournament so far did not see the expected run deluge , but there was no shortage of entertainment. The Aussies , after a brisk start , lost a couple of wickets to wily left-arm spinner Daniel Vettori ( 2-41 ) , who came into bowl in the seventh over . Paceman Tim Southee then removed a dangerous David Warner leg-before , the referral showing the ball clipping the top of middle. From there , one witnessed some excellent swing bowling by 'Man of the Match ' Trent Boult ( 527 ) and poor batting by the Aussies . Michael Clarke 's men were not ready to put their heads down and play out the danger period when Boult was swinging it in beautifully . While Glen Maxwell and Mitchell Marsh dragged the ball on to the stumps , Clarke played one away from the body to give a catch to short-cover . Boult , in his second spell , had five wickets for three runs and it was left to Brad Haddin to take the score past 150 . In the initial phase of the Kiwi chase , it seemed that the game would be over in a jiffy. Brendon McCullum ( 50 off 24 balls ) kept hitting to all corners of the park and it needed a a blow on his elbow off a rising ball from Cummins to check the flow . The skipper was in pain and was dismissed after a while as he tried to go over the top. A ball later , Ross Taylor was cleaned up by a swinging Starc delivery and the teams went in for a dinner break . Grant Elliot was dismissed immediately after the break by Starc , but after that Corey Anderson and Williamson put up a 52-run partnership which seemed to be taking Kiwis home. Starc then dismissed Anderson and all hell broke loose , but the unflappable Williamson was there to take the ship home . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
