World Cup 2015 : Boult tests his abilities on the one-day scene The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Feb 17 , 2015 , 12.09PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Trent Boult would be used to seeing a field packed with slips and a gully in his first over of a match , particularly for a hat-trick delivery . Probably not so much in a one-day international . The 25-year-old had just trapped Scotland 's Calum MacLeod and Hamish Gardiner on successive deliveries in New Zealand 's World Cup clash with Scotland at University Oval in Dunedin . With his control of swing and seam position , New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum had packed his field behind the wicket sensing his left-armer could achieve what England 's Steven Finn did last Saturday and take a World Cup hat-trick . The delivery , however , swung too early and Matt Machan was able to leave it and let it go behind to wicketkeeper Luke Ronchi . " When we get conditions like that where it does swing , and we get that little bit of assistance out of the wicket then the wickets kind of come , " Boult told reporters after the tense three-wicket win for New Zealand . " It 's about putting pressure on them and myself in turn trying to keep it as simple as possible. " Boult was named man-of-the match for his opening spell of two for 21 from six overs , though less than six months ago it was debatable whether he would be at the World Cup . He has been an automatic choice in New Zealand 's test side with his ability to swing the ball both ways at genuine pace . That seemed to have pigeon holed him as a test bowler , where he is able to bowl a fuller length and get the ball to do the work for him , and he was picked for just one limited-overs match from November 2012 until October 2014 . He was then recalled for the one-day series against South Africa , which signalled he was in Mike Hesson 's World Cup plans and justified the work he had been doing with the white ball . " Everyone knows that test cricket is my passion and there is no doubt about that , " he said . " There 's nothing better than winning a test match and a test match series with the black cap on . " ( But ) this World Cup was always going to be a big goal of mine and something I 'd love to be involved in . " I felt like I put a lot of focus into the white ball and the game with the white ball in the background . " So it 's nice to be contributing , like I said , and to get some accolades like I have recently is something that I was n't necessarily expecting. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
