World Cup 2015 : Boycott rips into feeble England - again The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Feb 20 , 2015 , 04.56PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 LONDON : England are not as good as they think they are and have a lot of hard work to do to even qualify for the World Cup quarterfinals , former opening batsman Geoffrey Boycott said on Friday . Eoin Morgan 's side suffered a humiliating eight-wicket defeat by New Zealand after being bowled out for 123 in Wellington and allowing the hosts to reach their target in 12.2 overs . " Perhaps they are not as good as they think they are , " Boycott told the BBC . " I said that about the captain Morgan and everybody went mad , but maybe England are n't either. " England lost their last seven wickets for 19 runs and New Zealand seamer Tim Southee became only the fourth bowler to take seven wickets in a World Cup game . " This was not an uncovered or grassy pitch seaming all over the place , " Boycott said. " This was a flat 270-pitch minimum and they made a right mess of it. " The mauling by New Zealand followed a heavy defeat by Australia and England will need to win at least three of their four remaining Pool A games to have a chance of reaching the last eight . " England are not out of the World Cup , " Boycott said . " They have to beat Scotland , Bangladesh and Afghanistan and then they 're through to quarter-finals. It 's a good job they 've got minnows to play because they are not playing good enough to beat any decent team. I will be a bit nervous on Monday for the Scotland game. " England 's preparations for the tournament were far from ideal with Alastair Cook axed as captain in December but they beat India twice to reach the Tri-Series final in Australia . " They have got a lot of hard work to do , " Boycott said . " We 've had an interminably eventful few months with things going on. What have New Zealand been doing ? They 've had a settled side , good leadership and winning Test and ODIs , while we do n't know our best batting line-up. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
