World Cup 2015 : Case of missing mystery spinners The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 21 , 2015 , 10.09AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : It 's a game both Pakistan and West Indies ca n't afford to lose , and on the eve of the match , both camps were ruing the common missing link - the mystery spinner . For the last few years , these teams have built their bowling attacks around Saeed Ajmal and Sunil Saeed Ajmal and Sunil Narine respectively.But with just six months to go for the World Cup , both Pakistan and West Indies were dealt killer blows by ICC as Ajmal and Narine were banned for suspect action . There 's no doubt that Ajmal and Narine 's arms bend more than 15 degrees while bowling , but what has left the two camps sore is the late crackdown. " Ajmal has been an in tegral part of our team for a very long time and had played a major role in our victories.It 's a bit difficult when you are used to somebody for so many years and then suddenly he is not there , " Pakistan captain Misbah-ul Haq said . Ajmal has worked hard on his action and has been cleared by the ICC , but he is n't the same bowler anymore.He has played only a couple of domestic games with his new action and has gone for runs. Team sources said that there was no way the mystery spinner could have been in cluded in the World Cup squad with an underprepared action . Narine 's case is similar. He was first called for chucking during the Champions League T20 in October 2014 . The KKR spinner tried his best to fix his action and play the World Cup but had to pull out with a week to go . " Sunil is obviously a very good bowler. He 's ranked in the top 10 in ODIs and has done tremendously well for us over the years. It is a huge loss for us but we have to move on , " West Indies captain Jason Holder said. So now , with their strike bowlers missing , both teams are struggling to have a formidable attack in place. Pakistan have two l leg-spinners in Shahid Afridi and Yasir Shah , but they are not of off-spinner Ajmal 's quality. It was the offie 's skills in death overs that Misbah is missing most and he is banking on pacers to do the job . " The pacers have done well and are rising to the situation. I hope they keep doing that and help us do well , " he said . The West Indians could n't defend 304 the other day against the Irish , something that would have been unthinkable if Narine was around. But Holder is not giving up hope. " We have two quality spinners in the team - Sulieman Benn and Nikita Miller. I hope they will make good of the opportunities coming their way , " Holder said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
