World Cup 2015 : Clarke credits Dhoni for Indian team 's redemption The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Mar 25 , 2015 , 05.13PM IST Clarke said he was surprised about the rivals ' success rate but said it was an advantage playing on the home turf. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Australian captain Michael Clarke on Wednesday lauded the efforts of his Indian counterpart Mahendra Singh Dhoni in turning things around for his team , as they wait to battle in the high-voltage World Cup semifinal at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Thursday . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " They 've played so much cricket in Australia. They 've worked out how to take wickets. They 've worked out how to score runs , and they 've shown that through this tournament , " Clarke said at the post-match press conference . " I think MS Dhoni deserves a lot of credit for the way he 's captained his team , especially being defeated in the Test series and the Tri-Series to be able to turn things around , " the right-handed batsman added . " Obviously , they 're at the top of their game at the moment. So , we 're prepared for that. We know we 're playing against a very good team that obviously won the last World Cup. We look forward to that challenge. " Speaking on India 's poor record at the SCG over the years , Clarke said he was surprised about the rivals ' success rate but said it was an advantage playing on the home turf . " I thought they would have had a better success rate at the SCG than that , so that does surprise me. But it probably does show how Australia loves playing in their own backyard , " the 33-year-old said . " I think MS Dhoni deserves a lot of credit for the way he 's captained his team , " Clarke said. ( AFP Photo ) " It 's no different when we go to India. It 's one of the hardest places in the world to win. You take the same two teams into different conditions and things change , " he added . " That is a part of home ground advantage. But I said at the start of this tournament that I thought India were going to be one of the toughest teams to beat. " Asked about the Indian team looking like a very different side than what they were in the Tri-series , he said , " They look exactly the same to me. They 're just playing some really good cricket. We 've played a lot of cricket against India. " " We know their strengths. We know their weaknesses , and we know they 're a very good team. We have to execute our skills as well as we possibly can , and if we do that , I have confidence that we can beat any team we play against , " the Australian skipper signed off . The winner of the contest will face New Zealand in the final on March 29 at Melbourne Cricket Ground . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
