Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 It was Scotland 's third highest one-day international score of all time and Coetzer 's 156 , his second career century , was 19 runs short of the Scotland record high 175 hit by Calum MacLeod against Canada last year . It was the best by a Scot at the World Cup , beating the 76 by Gavin Hamilton against Pakistan in 1999 . Coetzer 's dominance with the bat heaped pressure on Bangladesh , who won the toss and believed bowling first was the best option . Bangladesh targeted Scotland to bank points in their push for two wins from their last three pool matches to ensure a quarter-final berth. They also have to play England and New Zealand . But instead they were forced to struggle in the field , let down by bowlers straying off line too often and an inefficient fielding effort . Scotland are desperate to notch their first World Cup victory after setting the record of 11 consecutive defeats when they collapsed against Afghanistan . Coetzer was cautious in the opening overs while MacLeod , trying to overcome a string of low scores , charged at a brisk run-a-ball rate . But his time was up in the third over when he popped a leading edge to Mohammad Mahmudullah at point and was gone for 13 . Hamish Gardiner added 19 before slashing at a short delivery from Taskin Ahmed that deserved to be punished but instead when straight to Soumya Sarkar at cover point . With Scotland 38 for two , Matt Machan joined Coetzer and the pair began to reconstruct the innings with a 78-run partnership When Machan went for 35 , captain Preston Mommsen stepped up to support Coetzer as the pace quickened . They cracked a rapid 141 in 14 overs before Mommsen was gone for 39 off 38 deliveries . Coetzer 's 156 came from 134 deliveries and included 17 fours and four sixes as Scotland reached 308 for five before losing three quick wickets in the death overs For Bangladesh , seamer Taskin took three for 43. Meanwhile there is a doubt over whether Bangladesh 's Anamul Haque will bat after he left the field with an apparent dislocated shoulder which he injured when diving to cut off a boundary . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
