World Cup 2015 : Crunch time for me , says Shane Watson The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 26 , 2015 , 10.51AM IST A dodgy Test form has affected Shane Watson 's ODI game as well but the 33-year-old said he is in no mood to give up that easily. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Shane Watson has found the going tough of late. His spot in the Australian team has been under scrutiny , accentuated by a first-ball duck against England in their World Cup opener . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Australia 's second match was washed out and as Watson came up to take questions from the media on Wednesday , the first one that flew in was : " What do you feel about your poor batting form ? " Watson did n't lose his calm . " Tough one straight up , " he smiled , but the ace all-rounder acknowledged that he needs to score runs. " It 's crunch time for me. It 's important for me to score runs and then it 's up to the selectors whether they see it 's fit for me to play. But I 'm doing everything I possibly can. " Mitchell Marsh is already being seen as the player who can take over from Watson. Then there 's James Faulkner , who is coming back from an injury , and Watson knows if he does n't get the runs , things can get tricky. " I 've been in and around a number of World Cup campaigns. I know what to expect and I know it does n't always go exactly to plan. " A dodgy Test form has affected Watson 's ODI game as well but the 33-year-old said he is in no mood to give up that easily . " I do feel that I am bating well , I did n't get a chance to get in against England. I have been working on my game , trying to make it better all the time , " Watson said with conviction . He now has to face the swing of Tim Southee , who was sensational against England in the last game. Watson has n't played him for a while on the international stage , but he spoke about his familiarity with the fast bowler , courtesy IPL . " He is in my IPL team ( Rajasthan Royals ) and I know him well. He is a great bloke and a quality bowler. " His teammate Aaron Finch had said the other day that New Zealand would be under pressure in the game which is likely to decide the group winner , but Watson did n't want to get into that . " I do n't think that there are any favourites for this game. New Zealand have played very well and we know what we are up against. They have players like Brendon McCullum who can completely take the game away from you , and we have to ensure that it does n't happen , " Watson said . Skipper Michael Clarke 's fitness too came up for discussion. " He is a world-class player and his presence will boost our middle-order , " the all-rounder said about his captain , who is yet to play a game since the Adelaide Test . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
