World Cup 2015 : Cyclone overshadows Australia-Bangladesh clash The author has posted comments on this article AP | Feb 20 , 2015 , 11.51AM IST Speculation on how Michael Clarke 's return from hamstring surgery would change the line-up dissipated in the deluge. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE : Wet and wild cyclonic weather in the so-called Sunshine State was threatening to wash out Australia 's World Cup Pool A match against Bangladesh on Saturday , meaning the four-time champion Australians may have to share the competition points . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The category-5 Cyclone Marcia crossed the coast on Friday about 600 kilometers ( 400 miles ) north of Brisbane but started to lose intensity , quickly downgraded to a category-3 and was expected to reduce further as it tracked south . All the news before the weather took priority focused on Michael Clarke and his fitness test. After missing the opening 111-run win over England , the Australia captain was set to return against Bangladesh at the Gabba . Speculation on how his return from hamstring surgery in December would change the lineup- with most critics predicting stand-in captain George Bailey would lose his spot in the middle order - dissipated in the deluge . " The forecast is obviously not great but to be honest our main focus is on the people of Queensland,' ' Clarke said Friday. ` ` As much as we would like to get out on the field and continue our form I think we need to realize how bad this cyclone is and hope that everyone is healthy and safe. We will worry about the cricket tomorrow.'' The Queensland state premier and local mayors urged people to stay indoors and avoid flooded roads and creeks , and more than 100,000 sandbags were filled and handed out to people in low-lying areas in Brisbane. Some residents had lost electricity , major airlines canceled flights and the Australian cricketers trained indoors . Football Federation Australia postponed Friday 's A-League match between Brisbane Roar and Melbourne Victory . The Australia-Bangladesh match was scheduled to start at 1 : 30 p.m. local time ( 0330 GMT ) on Saturday , but with the forecast for more heavy rain , strong winds and thunderstorms overnight and in the morning , there appeared to be little chance of the game getting being played . If both sides ca n't bat for a minimum 20 overs , the organizers will declare a No Result and award each team one competition point . Clarke declined to reveal the composition of the Australian XI . " We have selected a team but I am not going to announce it today because it could change if the game 's format changes,' ' he said. " That gives the selectors options.'' The 33-year-old Clarke came through some warm-up matches , where he was required to bat , bowl and field. He has struggled with back and hamstring problems throughout his career , but said he 'd never needed surgery until the operation on his right hamstring in December , which forced him out of the last three test matches against India and the limited-overs tri-series involving England and India . " I had niggles in the past but I have n't missed as much cricket as I have in the last couple of months,' ' he said , assuring critics he was back to fitness. " I am 100 percent confident I can walk out on the field and help the team achieve success.'' If the Gabba match is abandoned , Australia has another week to wait before it plays co-host New Zealand at Auckland. New Zealand won its third match in a row with an eight-wicket victory over a shattered England on Friday in Wellington . Bangladesh opened the tournament with a win over newcomer Afghanistan on Wednesday , and ca n't be entirely written off against the Australians after causing one of the biggest upsets in cricket with a victory over the Aussies in 2005. That was the Bangladeshi side 's only win against Australia in 19 ODIs since 1990 . " Yeah , it was a good memory for us , but it was a long time ago,' ' Mortaza said. " If you can on a particular day play good cricket , you can beat anybody. We just want to make sure that we play our best cricket.'' Mortaza said he 'd been hoping to use the match against Australia to fine-tune for later matches against Sri Lanka and New Zealand. Otherwise , he does n't mind getting something out of the trip to Brisbane . " If you can get one point , whatever is happening is happening for good , so we do n't mind that,' ' he said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
