World Cup 2015 : Destiny 's child Mohit Sharma makes it count The author has posted comments on this article Ruchir Mishra , TNN | Feb 24 , 2015 , 09.54AM IST Mohit Sharma made an impact with sterling performances in two high pressure games against Pakistan and South Africa. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : It was just another foggy day at Lahli in December. With umpires waiting for the fog to clear , Mohit Sharma was keeping himself busy with a game of football during Haryana 's Ranji Trophy game against Vidarbha even as he kept enquiring about the start of play. The World Cup squad was still to be announced. But if one thought he was worried about his selection in the World Cup squad , it was the last thing on his mind . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " There 's no point worrying about things which are n't in your hand. Yes , I wanted the game to resume as soon as possible because this game is very important for us from the qualification point of view. I want to be part of a Ranji Trophy winning team , " the pacer from Haryana had told TOI . It was surprising to hear something like this from a player who was very much in the frame for World Cup selection. Later on , he spoke about how he started playing cricket ; how Haryana Cricket Association helped him ; how Ranji Trophy helped youngsters grow as a cricketer ; how IPL shaped his career... but there was hardly anything about the World Cup . When pressed about his World Cup ambitions , he said " It 's not in my hand. I can only perform. If I start worrying about it , I will lose focus. Every match is important for me whichever level I play. " It was probably Mohit 's destiny to play for the country in World Cup. Mohit , who played in the tri-series just before the World Cup , eventually replaced an injured Ishan Sharma and immediately made an impact with sterling performances in two high pressure games against Pakistan and South Africa . Mohit 's success did n't come as a surprise for Haryana coach Surendra Bhave. " Whenever we need breakthroughs , Mohit is the go-to man. He gives 100 % every time he bowls. He can bowl at a decent pace , has variation and generally bowls in good areas. For a fast bowler , he is amazingly agile ; has a good arm and enjoys his fielding. He can contribute with the bat as well if the need arises , " Bhave , an ex-India selector , said . When Mohit got the IPL contract with Chennai Super Kings , he did n't get a chance to play straight away. The CSK management first tried Uttar Pradesh pacer Ankit Rajpoot. It was only when Rajpoot failed to make an impression , Mohit got the opportunity. Since then , he has been regular in the line-up . " Unlike some other pacers , Mohit has an idea where to bowl when there 's something in wicket. He does n't get carried away by seeing live grass and bounce on the wicket and puts the ball in right areas , probably because he bowls a lot in Lahli where conditions favour pacers. He has a decent bouncer for a guy who is not very tall. He uses it very well. Look how he got Amla , " Bhave pointed out . India still have a long way to go and they will require Mohit to be consistent. But early signs make one very hope big . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
