World Cup 2015 : Dhawan repays captain Dhoni 's faith The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 11 , 2015 , 10.01AM IST With two centuries in the World Cup , Shikhar Dhawan has proved that his captain MS Dhoni was justified in keeping faith in him. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 HAMILTON : There have been times in the last one year when Shikhar Dhawan came close to being excluded from the Indian team. Even for the World Cup , it was a touch-and-go situation and it was MS Dhoni 's backing that saw the Delhi opener retain his spot in the team . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 And now , with two centuries in the tournament , the opener has proved that his captain was justified in keeping faith in him. On Tuesday , he was absolutely flawless in his batting and he did n't mind giving himself a perfect 10. " I will mark myself 10 out of 10 for this innings. I would say I played more creatively , played on the bowlers ' mind and kept executing those shots. " He toyed with the bowling , which reminded many of his exploits in the 2013 Champions Trophy , when he kept giving India those great starts. Even skipper Dhoni reminded everyone of that. " It 's important to back players at certain times . I never forgot his contributions to win us the Champions Trophy and kept the belief in him , " Dhoni said. Dhawan went through tough times during the Test series against Australia ahead of the World Cup. He was unable to handle the short ball , but the left-hander said that he has been able to sort it out. " I 've spent a lot of time trying to figure out my game. Now I 'm used to the bounce and pace and I 'm enjoying my game here , " he said with the same confidence that he batted with on Tuesday . His thoughts were echoed by Dhoni , but the skipper was particularly happy with the manner in which Dhawan has got the big scores once he has settled in. " It 's important to give yourself those 15 minutes in the middle which he did. The best thing about his batting has been that once he settles in , he looks to get a big score. He 's not someone who is happy getting a 50 , he knows that the team needs him to score big and he always looks for the next milestone -the hundred , " Dhoni added . Dhawan always scores runs at a fair clip , which also impresses Dhoni. The skipper feels that it 's the left-hander 's ability to find gaps that makes things easier for the team. " With the others batting around Dhawan , it becomes a little easier for the entire unit , " Dhoni added . The body language of the dasher also exudes a confidence that always helps create a positive energy in the team. Dhoni feels one of the opener 's greatest assets is his self-belief. " He keeps believing in himself even when the chips are down. Moreover , he prepared himself very well and that 's why the rewards are coming , " Dhoni said . The fans would hope the trend continues for another three weeks. If that happens India could truly be on the road to glory . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
