Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " It has been good , we ca n't shy away from the fact that we are playing some good cricket , " Dhoni said at the post-match presentation . " But at the same time a month back we were struggling. A lot of credit needs to go to the boys and the support staff. " Dhoni said he was especially pleased with the overall health of India 's game . India 's batsmen have a well-deserved reputation as being among the best in the world but they have also bowled out their opposition in all seven matches and excelled on the field . " The good thing is not many players from our side are in the top run-scorers list , but the batting has performed , " Dhoni said . There 's a new leader at the top of the # cwc15 wicket takers ! http : //t.co/RRvGuMxDjz Who will finish top of the pile ? pic.twitter.com/9jR8ynsOt3 — ICC ( @ ICC ) March 19 , 2015 " That was an area we wanted to improve ( bowling teams out ) Even in New Zealand and South Africa , we were struggling with that , but now we are doing much better. It 's difficult to pin-point how it changed . " Cricket has a lot of abstracts , but we need to do a lot of the small things right. Put in the intensity and hope it all turns out. " Batting first , India compiled a daunting total of 302 for six , built on the back of a magnificent century from Rohit Sharma , who completed his first World Cup hundred . He started cautiously after India slumped to 115-3 but picked up the tempo later on , finishing with an impressive 137 off 126 balls . " I wanted to bat as long as possible and put the team into a good situation and the bowlers did a fantastic job , " Rohit said after being named man of the match . " Batting at the top of the order , it 's important to get big hundreds and I want to make the most of it when I go out to bat and I 'm happy with the way it turned out . " We played as a team. Bowlers are taking wickets , batsmen are scoring runs , we just need to take this momentum into the semis. " Bangladesh , playing in the quarter-finals at the World Cup for the first time , were bowled out for 193 in 45 overs , but won plenty of admirers with their performances during the tournament . " The toss could 've been important , we like to bat first but we ca n't complain. A score of 300 is always difficult to chase , 280 would have been much better , " Bangladesh captain Mashrafe Mortaza said . " Except this game , everyone back home should be happy. Most of the players had only played two or three ODIs before the World Cup and are just starting their careers . " Hopefully we can carry on from here. We do n't have enough experience to play in this sort of matches , but we now know how we have to play. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
