World Cup 2015 diary : Dhoni-Kohli bonhomie The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 24 , 2015 , 06.21PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 PERTH : There were lot of speculations about Mahendra Singh Dhoni-Virat Kohli relationship but if you walked in at the Hotel Hyatt on Tuesday afternoon , you could say that all those were just rumours . As one entered the hotel porch , one could see the Indian captain and his deputy engrossed in a chat like long lost friends . Even from a handshaking distance , it was difficult to hear what they were speaking. While Kohli was in his shorts and white vests , the skipper looked cool as ever in his Red tees and army green baggy pants . The Indian captain did acknowledge the presence of few scribes with a smile , even as Kohli had a look at his i-pad . Once Mohammed Shami joined them , the three left the hotel and it was lunch time , so no marks for guessing where they headed to , as the hotel menu was dominated mostly by oriental and Aussie cuisines which probably did not suit the Indian taste buds . Old World charm of WACA : While no one can deny the history and legacy that is attached with Adelaide Oval and the Melbourne Cricket Ground , they can at best be termed as concrete jungles , somewhat similar to the newly built swanky Indian cricket stadiums . The moment one enters the WACA ground in Perth , the old world charm just refuses to leave you . The grass banks , the Lilee-Marsh stands along with the new bucket seats is a nice amalgamation of old and new . Whenever there is an international match , the big manual scoreboard of WACA shows Western Australia 's 'Team of Century ' with all the leading Test players ' emerging from the state adorning the board . It has Dennis Lillee , Rod Marsh , Justin Langer , Geoff Marsh , Kim Hughes , Terry Alderman , Graham McKenzie , John Inverarity , Greg Shepherd , Bruce Yardley , Graeme Wood . WACA 's media manager Glem Foreman said , " That 's our 'Team of Century'. Whenever there is an international match , we put up the board with the special XI 's name. " The other interesting aspect was that each portion of the red-bricked outer boundary wall of the WACA has a poster of Western Australia players like Lillee , Hughes , Marsh , Langer , Mike Velletta ( hero 1987 Reliance Cup final ) , Bruce Reid , Graham McKenzie to name a few . Where cemeteries and vineyards peacefully co-exist : As one takes a walk down towards WACA on a hot afternoon with Freemantle Doctor making its presence felt , the eerie silence does catch you by surprise . Human beings on the streets is a rarity. Cemeteries on both sides of the road , makes the surrounding even quieter. The Eastern part of Perth , where WACA is situated , is full of wine shops as Western Australia is a place known for its world famous vineyard . Only a three-hour drive down River Margaret will bring you to the best wine region of the world where they produce Chardonnay , Sauvignon Blanc , Semillon and Cabernet Sauvignon . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
