World Cup 2015 : Do or die time for Pakistan , says Misbah The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 21 , 2015 , 01.23PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH ( New Zealand ) : Pakistan 's World Cup campaign needed improvement across the board , captain Misbah-ul-Haq declared Saturday after a humiliating 150-run loss to the West Indies . The rout at Christchurch 's Hagley Oval was compounded by a batting display that set a record for the worst start to a one-day international innings , with Pakistan 's first four wickets falling for just one run . Pakistan now languish at the bottom of Pool B with two losses from two outings , their performance against the West Indies a step backwards from the 76-run loss to arch-rivals and defending champions India in their tournament opener . " It 's a do or die situation for us and there are no ifs and buts , " Misbah said as he tried to look ahead to Pakistan 's next game against Zimbabwe , while sifting through the wreckage of Saturday 's crushing loss . " We just lost in all three departments , " Misbah admitted. " We could n't bowl well , a lot of dropped catches , and the batting totally flopped. " After electing to bowl first , Pakistan took two early wickets , including the out-of-form Chris Gayle , and were still in a relatively strong position when the West Indies were 194 for four going into the final 10 overs . But they could not contain a late onslaught from Andre Russell , who hit an unbeaten 42 off 17 balls , and Lendl Simmons with 50 off 46 as the West Indies reached 310 for six . Pakistan , who won the World Cup the last time the tournament was staged in Australia and New Zealand in 1992 , immediately collapsed in their run chase . After the first four wickets fell quickly , they were five for 25 after 10 overs and eventually all out for 160 in exactly 39 overs . " We need to pick up ourselves up and come hard in the next game because now we 're at the edge , " Misbah said . " We have to forget the last two matches and learn from our mistakes. We can only win if we perform. " Misbah said Pakistan 's problems against the West Indies began from the moment he won the toss and opted to use bowler-friendly conditions , with overcast skies and a hint of moisture on the pitch . " But we could n't take enough wickets up front. We only took one or two. We could have done better than that. " There were also difficulties in getting the batting-bowling balance right , with proven match-winner Saeed Ajmal pulling out of the squad because of his disputed spin-bowling action . " The batting is already not scoring much. To go with six batters and five proper bowlers , that really is a tricky situation for us , " the skipper added . " That 's why we are going with seven batters but at the moment nothing is working , " Misbah said . " At the end of the day as a bowler , as a fielder , as a batsman , you have to go out there in the middle and perform. That 's what we are not doing at the moment . " There is no blame game. As a team , as players , we need to pick ourselves up and we need to perform , that 's the only way. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
