World Cup 2015 : Emotional Steyn thanks firefighters The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 7 , 2015 , 11.42AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 The return of Sachin Tendulkar to India to attend his father 's funeral during the 1999 England World Cup and then his subsequent 'comeback ' for the nation 's cause stand out as one of the most emotional moments in World Cup history . Dale Steyn , currently the best paceman in the world , was going through a similar emotional turmoil over the last four days as the fire in Cape Town ravaged the city and reached his doorsteps . " I was in Canberra and had slept with the phone on silent mode. I woke up that morning and had like 80 messages , 30 missed calls. So I jumped on it and realized the fires were a lot closer to my home than I initially thought , " Steyn recollected . He got messages from people looking after his house in Cape Town that it had to be evacuated within five minutes. " They asked me what to take out of the house. I 've never been more scared in my life. I 'm sitting halfway across the world , and everything that I 've ever earned or got in my life -every wicket , ball , bit of clothing in my 31 years -is in that house. I did n't know what to tell them. " Steyn got in touch with his old mate Jacques Kallis , whose lawn has been affected by the fire . " Jacques ' house , his lawn was on fire. If I was at home I would dive straight into it and do what I can to help. A lot of animals , pets , homes , destroyed -nobody should go through this -it 's an extremely tough time back home right now , " Steyn said . He thanked the volunteers and firefighters for putting their lives under risk to bring the situation under control. " It was a tremendous job by them. I have never met them before. And they were throwing themselves at it and putting out those fires , " an emotional Steyn said . 'WHAT 'S OUT-OF-THE-BOX ' ? Pakistan 's struggle is one of the talking points of the World Cup and when somebody told Misbah-ul-Haq in the press conference that former players are saying back home that there is no out-of-the-box thinking in the team , the captain started laughing. " What do you mean by out of the box ? Kya karun ? ( Mohammad ) Irfan ko opener khila du ? " Misbah said , as the media contingent broke out into a laughter . Indian attack has vastly improved , says Pollock Shaun Pollock is getting scared when he sees Indian journalists. " Oh , I will be asked for comments on India , they are everywhere , " he says laughing. But when enquired , he does have a reply. " I think the Indian attack has really improved over the last few months. They have made most of the stay in Australia and I think it has been great for them to play a Test series and tri-series there , " Pollock said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
