World Cup 2015 : England finally get a taste of victory The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 24 , 2015 , 09.37AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : There 's already a buzz in New Zealand that India will finish on top of Group B and play the quarterfinal against the No. 4 team of Group A. With Australia , New Zealand and Sri Lanka looking good in A , the battle for the fourth spot seems to be between England , Bangladesh and the two minnows - Scotland and Afghanistan . On Monday , Eoin Morgan 's boys got one obstacle out of their way , beating Scotland by 119 runs in the last match of the World Cup at the Hagley Oval . After the humiliating defeats against Australia and New Zealand , it was imperative for England to get this win. And Morgan 's men were on the ball right from the beginning , the win being set up by the opening partnership of Moeen Ali ( 128 off 107 balls ) and Ian Bell ( 54 off 85 balls ) , who put up 174 runs. While Moeen was the aggressor , Bell played the role of the anchor , negating the efforts of the Scottish bowlers . Moeen was looking to play a few shots on the up and gave a chance at cover when batting on seven , but the Scotland fielder failed to latch on to. He did n't need a second invitation and kept playing exquisite shots off the front foot. Moeen has the gift of timing and with the Scottish medium-pacers lacking the pace to push him to the back-foot , it was all very easy for the 27-year-old . At the other end , Bell gave him support with his quick singles and there was never an occasion when they looked under any pressure. Moeen brought up his century with a six off a sweep and looked to push on the accelerator. He was finally dismissed going for the big shot with England 's score reading 201 , but the platform had already been laid. Scotland , though , did tighten things up a bit taking a couple of quick wickets after the departure of Moeen , but that was n't enough to stop England from posting 303 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
