World Cup 2015 : Fearless Bangladesh have 'nothing to lose ' against India The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 17 , 2015 , 10.41AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Bangladesh will have to play fearless cricket to reproduce their shock 2007 World Cup win over India and knock the defending champions out in their quarterfinal , Shakib Al Hasan said on Tuesday . The star all-rounder hit a pivotal 53 as the Bangladeshis ran down India 's 191 to win by five wickets in Port-of-Spain , Trinidad , at the 2007 World Cup in one of the minnows ' biggest achievements . India , unbeaten in their six pool games , are expected to add Bangladesh to their tally at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on Thursday and confirm their superiority over their neighbours in an all-Asian knockout game . Not many give Bangladesh a hope in their first-ever World Cup quarterfinal , but Shakib says confidence is high inside the camp after their three wins and rained-out point with Australia and anything is possible in a one-off game . " I think we played fearless cricket ( when Bangladesh beat India eight years ago ) and we all want to play that brand of cricket that we played , " Shakib told a media conference . " And , so far in this World Cup , I think we 're doing it. If we do exactly what we did against England or New Zealand , I think we 'll have a very good game . " It depends on the day , we need to start well. Whatever we do and if we keep doing that and we keep the momentum in our favour then anything is possible. " India have only lost to Bangladesh three times in 28 ODIs and have some of the biggest names in world cricket -- Mahendra Singh Dhoni , Virat Kohli and Shikhar Dhawan -- and have been , along with New Zealand , the only unbeaten team at the World Cup . " India have a very good team , they are the defending world champions , they 've got some world class players but we 're doing well in this World Cup , our confidence is high enough and we 're up for the match , " Shakib said . " Obviously , on pen and paper , India is a better team than Bangladesh , no-one has any doubt about it . " But on the day it 's a one-off game and if we have a good day and they have a bad day , you never know. " Bangladesh sent their country into raptures with their stunning 15-run victory to knock England out of the tournament and lock in on a quarterfinal berth . " In the subcontinent , people always expect a lot from you and because we 're playing well there is some expectation , " Shakib said . " But we need to focus on the game and how well we can play the game , that 's the key thing . " And if we do that I think the result will take care of itself. It does n't matter , win or lose , if we play our best cricket , that 's the key thing. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
