World Cup 2015 : Focus will be on Indian pacers , says Javagal Srinath The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Mar 25 , 2015 , 07.51PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Former fast bowler Javagal Srinath on Wednesday said that the centre of attraction will be Indian pacers and the batting top order as spinners wo n't get much turn against Australia in Thursday 's cricket World Cup semifinal here . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " I ca n't see there being much turn for the Indian spinners. So once again , the focus will be on India 's pace bowlers and the top order batting , " Srinath wrote in a column for International Cricket Council ( ICC ) . The 45-year-old said the Sydney Cricket Ground ( SCG ) pitch will offer different challenges which India 's top order must counter . " The SCG will offer different challenges that India 's top order must counter. As well as Mitchell Starc and Josh Hazlewood are bowling , India 's batting has the quality to not just see them off but also dominate them , " the former pacer said . " As I have said before , Virat Kohli has to take the lead. He has cooled off a little after that hundred against Pakistan , but he loves the big stage. I see him coming up trumps against a side off whom he took four hundreds in the Test series. " Srinath , who clinched 315 wickets in 229 One-Day Internationals ( ODI ) , advised captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni and his men to use the short ball to good effect , which they have done , and not overdo it . " The one thing India must be wary about is overdoing the short-pitched stuff. Till now , they have used the short ball judiciously at the right time against the right batsmen. I am sure Dhoni and the team management will have their plans ready for Australia , " he said . The experienced pacer stressed that the co-hosts will again rely on bowlers , specially their pace attack to do the job for them . " Australia will depend heavily on their pace attack again to do the damage. Xavier Doherty 's left-arm spin has hardly been required , and once again , it will be up to Mitchell Starc , Josh Hazlewood and Mitchell Johnson to make inroads into the Indian batting , " he said . " Considering they are playing at home and know the conditions well , Australia will have the edge , especially if their bowlers are supported by the pitch. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
