World Cup 2015 : For captain Morgan , failure is collective The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Mar 10 , 2015 , 09.51AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : England became the first major team to bow out of contention in the World Cup when they lost to Bangladesh on Monday. Their disappointed captain Eoin Morgan however , did not blame any individual for the shocking performance . " I do n't think there 's any one thing to blame for our poor performance. Ultimately it 's come down to the way we 've performed , and today was another example of us not performing or putting together a game of cricket. I thought we bowled pretty well. The wicket was a good one and boundaries short on one side. But three wickets in the space of four overs , and then two wickets in one over , did n't help our cause , " Morgan said . When asked if the team as a whole felt embarrassed by the way it lost to Bangladesh and went out of contention , he said : " We are extremely disappointed , because within the group there was a lot of belief and expectation to go further than this. I think it is more surprise than anything else. " He said that the team had good preparation as the entire winter was set aside for one-day cricket. " Yeah , we ca n't complain about our preparation. It was good. It was more our poor performance and execution of the plan. We could n't get our performance right. We could n't perform together in any game. We 've done it probably a handful of times over the last many months , and since we 've touched down here we 've tried to address that problem. We felt we were making strides , but we did n't today. " On his future as an ODI captain , he said : " I certainly want to play ODI cricket. I am still inspired to play Test cricket. The captaincy is something I 've enjoyed. Working with Peter Moores has been brilliant. I 've learnt a lot from him. " Morgan took part of the blame for team 's poor run saying ; " My form has n't been great since the end of our summer , and again , I thought I had turned a corner when we touched down here. I put in a reasonably good performance , but since then I 've struggled , for a number of reasons , not just one. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
