World Cup 2015 : Former Black Cap Rutherford backs South Africa The author has posted comments on this article Prasad RS , TNN | Mar 21 , 2015 , 12.27PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : New Zealand 's 'Class of 92 ' may not have won the World Cup , but they were the in-form team of that tournament - defeating teams after another before losing to Imran Khan 's Pakistan . While skipper Martin Crowe led the way scoring 456 runs from 9 games , teammate Ken Rutherford also played his part - 212 at an average of 42.40 - in the tournament. Rutherford , unlike his other teammates , went on to carve a niche for himself in an unrelated field after his playing days ended. While he did coach the Ireland national side for a few years , Rudders , as he is fondly called , always knew where his passion was - horse racing . Currently the General Manager at the Waikato Racing Club , the 49-year old confessed that his previous avatar was a far more challenging one . " Facing the likes of Wasim ( Akram ) , Waqar ( Younis ) and others was infinitely more difficult than anything I have done post-retirement , " said Rutherford while talking to TOI . From following the happenings at a race course regularly during o his childhood , to working in countries such as Singapore , South Africa performing diverse roles , Rutherford has shared a connect with the racing industry and wagering for the better part of his life . Despite his busy schedule , Rutherford takes time out to stay in touch with the game. " I am doing the odd stint of TV commentary with Sky Sports NZ , so I am re-engaging with the game. I am also on the Board of Northern Districts Cricket , " Rutherford said . Despite having played the game at the highest level and having even coached an international outfit , Rutherford is n't sought after by the current crop of Kiwi cricketers . " I would imagine the current players are so busy that a chat with someone from a by-gone age would not be a consideration. The current players are privy to so much information from various coaches and experts that too much input might just confuse the issue anyway , " said Rutherford , a player with 56 Tests and 121 ODIs to his name . For someone whose skills in punting are appreciated , Rutherford has his money on South Africa . " New Zealand are a good hope. They know the conditions and how to play in them. If I was forced into making one prediction - it would be South Africa. I reckon they have all bases covered , a terrific all-round team , " he said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
