World Cup 2015 : For Shastri , Shami is Nawab of Kolkata , Yadav Vidarbha Hurricane The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 10 , 2015 , 09.07AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Ravi Shastri brings a lot of positive energy to the table. He speaks to the players one-to-one , comes up with technical inputs and also pushes them to go harder. And Ravi does n't mind being effusive of the boys who are doing the job for India day-in-day-out. " I do n't know who Mohammad Shami is , for me , he is the Nawab of Kolkata , " a charged-up Shastri said on the sidelines of the Indian practice session on Monday . " Yaar , you guys talk about the pace of Mitchell Starc and Mitchell Johnson , when our men are bowling that quick , write about it , " Shastri says in his characteristic way.He goes on to say how he has stopped calling Umesh Yadav and Mohit Sharma by their names as well. " For me , Mohit is the Haryana Express and Umesh , the Vidarbha Hurricane. They deserve these names , they have done well in the tournament , " Shastri said. But the coaching director always looks to live in the present. For him , the Australia leg is over. " Yes , we have won , but that 's done for me now. We have five more games to win the World Cup and that 's what we are focusing on now , " Shastri said . Throwing it down There 's a young boy in Team India colours giving constant throw-downs to the batsmen at great speed with a slinger.Raghavendra has never played any first-class cricket , but he is a throw-down expert who was first discovered by Sachin Tendulkar during one of his NCA stints towards the latter part of his career. " Se was looking for somebody who could give throwdowns consistently and Raghavendra was great at it , " Dr Baba , the Team India media manager , told TOI . Baba says that Raghavendra is absolutely tireless and can be extremely accurate , making him a favourite of the Indian batsmen. " He can keep hitting a penny ten out of ten. In addition to that he can also provide in-swinging throw-downs. He has been with the team since the England tour last year and is now very much a part of the support staff , " Baba added . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
