World Cup 2015 : For the Scots , Dravid still remains a mentor The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 23 , 2015 , 09.44AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : Scotland are at a crucial stage of their journey in topflight cricket. There 's a serious following for the game back home and they know that a good performance here could mean a lot for the future of the sport in the country . And at a time like this , the Scots acknowledge the effect former India captain Rahul Dravid had on them at a time when they were taking baby steps into international cricket. " He came and played for us during the 2003 season , when we had just started off. He played a big role in our development and we have followed the roadmap that he laid out for us , " Craig Wright , the current assistant coach of Scotland , who was the captain when Dravid was playing for the team , told TOI on Sunday . Dravid was at the prime of his career then , but he mixed with the Scottish team members and made them feel comfortable around him. " He had a huge influence when he arrived ; he was such an approachable , decent and humble guy. We were only a bunch of amateurs then , but we learnt from his professionalism , the way he trained and the calmness , composure and focus that he brought to the field. In addition to that , the publicity that came our way was also helpful , " Wright said . The assistant coach tries to impart the knowledge that he accumulated from Dravid to his own wards , who are now trying to take Scottish cricket forward. " It 's about the mental approach and the skill. I learnt a lot from Dravid on these counts and pass on the knowledge to the current bunch of boys , " Wright said. He still keeps in touch with Dravid and the In dian legend invariably gives him a ring when he is in the United Kingdom. The two even met up at Lord 's during the second India-England Test , when Dravid was about to ring the bell to commence the day 's proceedings. " We caught up at Lord 's and he was very inquisitive about the way Scottish cricket is going. He asked about the guys he knew and we had a good chat about that. " Wright would love Dravid to have a word with the Scottish boys if their roads cross during the World Cup. " I do n't know what his commentary schedule is , but if there 's a chance , it would be great. The boys would love to learn from Dravid , " Wright said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
