READ MORE : Weather might play spoilsport in India-Bangladesh clash Bangladesh can count among their three wins in 28 ODI encounters against their neighbours an upset five-wicket win in the pool stages at the 2007 tournament in the West Indies . Given the atmospherics and in the vast intimidating arena of the Melbourne Cricket Ground , it will be some effort from the Bangladeshis to repeat that , but they point out it is a one-off , there 's no second chance and things might fall in place . India have been transformed by the batting of Shikhar Dhawan ( 337 at 56.16 ) and Virat Kohli ( 301 at 75.25 ) , while Mahendra Singh Dhoni has regained his touch as a clear-thinking finisher allied to his steely leadership . India 's bowlers struggled for two months in Australia before the World Cup , but have dismissed the opposition in every single World Cup game so far , Ravichandran Ashwin , Mohit Sharma and Umesh Yadav all into double figures of wickets . Plenty in the Indian team are contributing and therein lies Bangladesh 's stiff task of pulling off their finest victory under the circumstances of a pressure sudden-death match at the MCG . " We have the same kind of pressure ( as playing at home in the last World Cup ) , " Dhoni said . " Irrespective of which team we play or which tournament we play , we are under pressure . " The good thing , the boys are quite used to it. A few times , there have been instances where we are down , but from that position , also , we have come back strongly and we have done well. " The big prize could be a likely Sydney semi-final with Australia , if the co-hosts can overcome the 1992 champions Pakistan in Adelaide on Friday . While the two-time champion Indians are familiar with the pressure of sudden-death World Cup cricket , this will be Bangladesh 's first quarter-final . There could be anything up to 80,000-90,000 fans at the MCG this week , many of them Indians and Bangladeshis creating a pulsating atmosphere , something not out of place on the sub-continent . " Everyone is excited about the game but as a professional unit we must focus on the task ahead , " skipper Mashrafe Mortaza said. " It 's a chance to show the world that we are among the top teams. " Vice-captain and star all-rounder Shakib Al Hasan refuses to be undaunted by the massive challenge . " India have a very good team , they are the defending world champions , they 've got some world class players but we 're doing well in this World Cup , our confidence is high enough and we 're up for the match , " Shakib said . " Obviously , on pen and paper , India is a better team than Bangladesh , no-one has any doubt about it . " But on the day it 's a one-off game and if we have a good day and they have a bad day , you never know. " It 's been a special tournament for Bangladesh with confidence high inside the camp after their three wins and rained-out point with Australia They sent their country into raptures with their stunning 15-run victory to knock England out of the tournament and lock in on a quarterfinal berth . " In the subcontinent , people always expect a lot from you and because we 're playing well there is some expectation , " Shakib said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
