World Cup 2015 : Holding slams 'pathetic ' West Indies The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 17 , 2015 , 11.15AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : West Indies great Michael Holding has slammed the side 's four-wicket loss to Ireland in their World Cup opener as a " little bit pathetic " . The Caribbean team collapsed to 87 for five in Nelson on Monday before Lendl Simmons ( 102 ) and Darren Sammy ( 89 ) guided them to a total of 304 for seven . But as far as fast bowling legend Holding and many other observers were concerned that was merely a " par score " . Certainly it was one Ireland , defeating a Test side for the third successive World Cup , had few problems chasing down as they made 307 for six with 25 balls to spare at Saxton Oval . " It was a little bit pathetic to be honest , " said Holding. " I 've been saying since this World Cup started that 300 on a good pitch here in New Zealand or Australia is just a par score , irrespective of who you 're playing against , " he added . " The West Indies , I do not understand how they could ever think that just over 300 runs that they would just automatically win , " insisted Holding , a member of the West Indies side that won the 1979 World Cup final . Holding said an inability to adjust to match circumstances had hurt the West Indies . " They can not take things for granted , " the 61-year-old Jamaican told Wisden India . " You should be able to think for yourself , 'OK we got a reasonable score but we still have a fight on our hands and we still have to go out there and perform. ' " However , Holding was far more complimentary about Ireland , indicating the International Cricket Council ought to grant them Test status in a bid to stop the other players from following the example of Irish-born Eoin Morgan , England 's captain at the World Cup , in switching allegiance . " If they ( Ireland ) continue to linger around the lower regions of world cricket they 'll continue to lose good cricketers , " Holding said . " Morgan left Ireland to play for England because he saw brighter prospects. England are a Test playing nation and are a world-renowned team . " Ireland need to be recognised now. They are playing good cricket and it 's about time they get the recognition otherwise they 'll keep losing cricketers. " Meanwhile , Holding predicted Ireland would qualify for the quarter-finals , with four teams from each of the two pools of seven going through to the knockout phase . " I should certainly think ( they 'll qualify ) . I think they 'll beat Zimbabwe....I would think they have an outstanding chance of going on to the quarter-finals. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
