World Cup 2015 : Hot pace is Team India 's flavour of season The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 27 , 2015 , 07.55AM IST The trio of Umesh Yadav , Mohammed Shami and Mohit Sharma put rival batsmen on the back foot by bowling fiery spells. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 PERTH : Team India could well put up a sign on their dressing room door saying , " Too hot to handle , enter at your own peril. " After all , it 's not often that rival teams get rattled by the raw speed of an Indian pace battery. Three bowlers stirring up speeds of 140 + kmph regularly is a rare phenomenon in Indian cricket. There have been pace bowlers who have hunted in pairs , but they have relied more on swing and guile than on speed . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 In India 's first two World Cup games , the trio of Umesh Yadav , Mohammed Shami and Mohit Sharma put rival batsmen on the back foot by bowling fiery spells. They also used the bouncer judiciously , as an element of surprise. Their performance has enabled India to get off to a great start. India 's plans of unleashing their red-hot pace battery will be tested against the West Indies on March 6 - especially if Chris Gayle is fit and firing - but before that they have to deal with the UAE on Saturday . " The Indian team will continue to rely on the pace battery to spearhead the bowling attack in the two matches to be played in Perth , against UAE and West Indies. They are the best option for us on the fast and bouncy pitch at the WACA. Once we go to New Zealand we will assess the conditions and see if swing bowlers Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Stuart Binny can be accommodated there , " a team official said . It all started with Shami bouncing out Pakistan 's mainstay Younis Khan. That dismissal set the tone for the rest of the game as the pacers held sway over Pakistan 's batsmen. Shami had four scalps while Yadav and Sharma bagged two apiece. The pace trio showed similar intensity and aggression against South Africa . After the magnificent display against South Africa in Melbourne , team director Ravi Shastri said , " How many times have we seen Indian bowlers bowling in tandem at 140-plus ? It has been fabulous bowling. You would think it was Australia or South Africa , not India. When Australia or South Africa do this , people sit up and say 'fabulous ' , but not in the case of India. " Shastri has pushed the pace bowlers to the hilt and goaded them on to perform at peak limits. Even during the Tests , he wanted the pace bowlers to make a whole-hearted effort and challenged them to retain the same intensity throughout the game. " You may bowl well in the first two sessions. But my challenge to ( Mohammed ) Shami , Umesh ( Yadav ) and ( Varun ) Aaron ( who has since returned home ) is , 'Show me what you have in the final session. If you do n't do it , somebody else will do it. ' " Shastri asserted that the pacers have realized the importance of maintaining their fitness levels. " What they ( the fast bowlers ) would have realized is that how important fitness is on a long tour like this , leading to the World Cup. You need a sustained level of performance overseas , where you are tested on how good you are in that last over of the innings. You might bowl a good spell initially , but what is more important is how you back it up with equally good effort in your subsequent spells. Only then can it help the team 's cause. " His words have had a desired effect on their performance. Of the 20 wickets India have take in two matches , 12 have been claimed by the pace trio at a strike rate of 24.5 balls per wicket , in comparison to 36.33 of the two spinners Ravichandran Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja. Their economy rate of 4.38 is better than the spinners ' 4.83. It is evident that the fortunes of this team will rest on the sustained performance of the pace bowler . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
