World Cup 2015 : 'I did my job ' , says Afghan match-winner Shenwari The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 26 , 2015 , 02.13PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 DUNEDIN : Samiullah Shenwari insisted he 'd simply " done my job " after his superb 96 set-up Afghanistan 's first-ever World Cup win with a thrilling one-wicket victory over Scotland in Dunedin on Thursday . Afghanistan collapsed to 97 for seven in pursuit of a modest target of 211 and were all but out of this Pool A clash at University Oval . But for the second time in as many days , following Ireland 's nailbiting win over the United Arab Emirates on Wednesday , two non-Test nations produced a dramatic climax to a World Cup match . Shenwari turned this contest on its head with a 147-ball innings featuring seven fours and five sixes . But when he holed out off spinner Majid Haq , trying to go for another six , Afghanistan still needed 19 more runs off as many balls with just one wicket standing . However , the last-wicket duo of Hamid Hassan ( 15 not out ) and Shapoor Zadran ( 12 not out ) held their nerve , with Shapoor looking anything but a No 11 as he struck the winning boundary off Iain Wardlaw three balls into the last over . " It was difficult because we lost early wickets but I did my job , " said man-of-the-match Shenwari . After he was out , Shenwari could be seen sitting with his head in his hands , seemingly in despair at costing Afghanistan the match . " It was a very poor shot , " he admitted. " I was trying to get another six but it was a very good win for us. " Afghanistan captain Mohammmad Nabi thought his side had thrown away their chance with the bat after restricting Scotland to 210 all out in an innings where left-arm paceman Shapoor took an impressive four for 38 in his maximum permitted 10 overs . " The pressure was extreme again but Shenwari batted brilliantly , " said Nabi. " It 's good to put two points on the board. This is our first win in the World Cup and everyone ( in Afghanistan ) will enjoy this. " For Scotland , now appearing in their third World Cup , the wait for a win in the tournament goes on after they looked certain to break their duck in Dunedin -- the Gaelic name for Edinburgh . " It 's never easy losing a game but this is a particularly difficult one for us to swallow , " said Scotland captain Preston Mommsen , whose side have now lost all three of their pool matches following defeats by New Zealand and England . " We had them seven down but could n't finish them off. It just was n't to be. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
