World Cup 2015 : India calm and assured ahead of West Indies clash The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Mar 4 , 2015 , 09.46AM IST The heartening news for the Indian camp is that Mohammed Shami , who had missed out the UAE match due to a knee niggle , bowled without any apparent discomfort. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 PERTH : A relaxed Indian team trained at the Murdoch University cricket ground on Tuesday , ahead of their match against West Indies on Friday . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 There were no signs of the anxiety or uncertainty which had preceded their matches against Pakistan and South Africa , when the team was under immense pressure following a miserable run in the tri-series . Two thumping victories and a leisurely stroll against UAE last week have given the team a confident air. The players seem ready to tackle the unpredictable West Indies team even on the fastish WACA surface . The beautiful university ground 's centre wicket had enough pace and bounce for the players to get a feel of the real pitch. The match is crucial , in particular , for the West Indies in order to keep their knockout hopes alive . The heartening news for the Indian camp is that Mohammed Shami , who had missed out the UAE match due to a knee niggle , bowled without any apparent discomfort . He started off bowling with a shortened run-up and gradually bowled at full steam. Pacemen Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Stuart Binny too had extended bowling spells in the nets and both looked in good rhythm. The two have been reserve bowers , with Bhuvi replacing the unfit Shami in the game against UAE . India are planning to play their top three bowlers - Umesh Yadav , Shami and Mohit Sharma - who have been regularly clocking speeds above 140kph even in the nets . It was this combination , along with the spinners Ravichandran Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja , which worked wonders against both Pakistan and South Africa . Like their earlier practice sessions in Adelaide and Melbourne , the Indians preferred to use the centre wicket for both batsmen and bowlers. The batsmen enjoyed the perfect facilities and had a good workout on a pitch that had true bounce . The likes of Shikhar Dhawan , Virat Kohli , Rohit Sharma and Ajinkya Rahane made the most of the excellent batting conditions and then skipper MS Dhoni and Suresh Raina practiced hitting the big shots . It was heartening to see the way reserve wicketkeeper-batsman Ambati Rayudu trained in the nets. Initially he kept wickets for an hour and then came back after a rest to have a knock . Despite not having played a match for over a month now , he looked in good touch , playing some exquisite shots , many of them clearing the big boundary with ease . If any of the frontline batsman are unfit , Rayudu is the only batsman in the reserves. Therefore , the think-tank must be happy to see him in good nick . There is no training session scheduled for Wednesday , when Australia take on minnows Bangladesh at the WACA . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
