World Cup 2015 : India keep faith in Ravindra Jadeja , Rohit Sharma The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 16 , 2015 , 09.50AM IST Jadeja has generally looked flat with his bowling. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 The group stage is over and India had happily finished on a high. But there are a couple of issues that worry the Men in Blue as they get to the knock-out stage . Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Right on top would surely be Ravindra Jadeja 's form. The Indian team management had invested a lot in the left-armer and kept him in the team despite the allrounder suffering an injury in the build-up to the World Cup. But Jadeja has generally looked flat with his bowling and Brendan Taylor was particularly merciless on him on Saturday , taking 25 off one over. But skipper MS Dhoni still threw the ball to Jadeja again in the next over , trying to ensure that he gets it right despite the onslaught . " I think he has bowled decently in patches. He 's still improving , and overall , is a key ingredient of the team. We have put in a lot of effort and time in him since the last World Cup and we want him to do well , " Dhoni said . Ahead of the World Cup , no one thought that a spin bowling allrounder would do too much damage in the tournament. But Jadeja did a decent job in the first two games against Pakistan and Sri Lanka and it did n't take Dhoni too long to realize that the left-armer is a better bet than Stuart Binny even in Australian conditions. " I am not too bothered about the Auckland game. The boundaries were much shorter and even Ashwin went for runs , " Dhoni said making it clear that he will stick to Jadeja in the knock-outs too . Rohit Sharma walks from the field after he was dismissed during a World Cup Pool B match. ( AP Photo ) Another important cog in the wheel , Rohit Sharma , too , has n't got the big runs. Not that he has struggled , but all he had to show for the fluent starts that he has got are the two half-centuries against minnows UAE and Ireland. Coach Duncan Fletcher spent a lot of time with him at the Eden Park nets a couple of days back , but all he managed was 16. " It 's not just about the runs. What 's important is to see the kind of starts Rohit and Shikhar have given. I feel Rohit has batted well. He looks calm and composed , and at the same time he 's playing the shots really well. That 's the key factor , it 's not always about the runs , " Dhoni said . Rohit had got a century in a practice game ahead of the World Cup and the skipper feels that the two half-centuries that he has got in the tournament , have helped him to settle down well. " It 's important to spend time in the middle and Rohit has done enough of that , " Dhoni said. It 's evident that the skipper believes Rohit is due for a big score in the knock-outs and the fans , too , would hope it comes sooner rather than later . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
