World Cup 2015 : Indian bowlers have shown great control , says Holding The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 9 , 2015 , 07.39PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 HAMILTON : Impressed with the " control " of the Indian bowlers , pace legend Michael Holding said that Mohammed Shami and company have stuck to a consistent line and length to outwit the opposition batsmen in the cricket World Cup so far . India , who registered their fourth consecutive win in pool B after beating West Indies by four wickets at the WACA last week , are likely to top their group while heading into the quarterfinals and Holding was all praise for the bowling department . " Well , the control , we saw pitch maps again today that the line was very very good. All the bouncers were direct in line with the batsmen , some of them were little bit higher as we mentioned earlier on. But there were no balls outside the off stump for them to go back and cut away or too many balls down the leg side. That is what you are looking for with fast bowlers , the control that they show , " Holding said in ESPNcricinfo 's video show 'Match Point' . " There is no point bowling fast and spraying it all over the place and I think Mohammed Shami in particular has been very very good. And as Ajit ( Agarkar ) just said the opening bowlers have made it easier for the first change , Mohit Sharma who has come into this squad . " He has come in with almost no pressure because every time he has had the ball in his hands the opening bowlers have taken wickets. So he is bowling almost to a new batsman and make things little bit easier for him , " he added . Mahendra Singh Dhoni , who made an unbeaten 45 at the WACA , played the anchor 's role to perfection in guiding the team in its chase of 183. Holding seemed impressed with Dhoni 's approach . " The important thing about MS Dhoni is that he is not really interested in how he looks. He is interested in getting the job done , he does n't mind getting ugly runs. And he is not out there to play pretty cover drives and to play square cuts and hook shots and that sort of a thing. He is there to get whatever runs are required and however they come he is happy to take them , " Holding said . " Some of the other batsmen , it was almost as if they want to look in a particular way when they are getting the runs , not MS Dhoni , he just wants to get the job done. And as we have seen he comes in this sort of position on so many occasions and all he is doing is talking to his partner , telling them just stay with me , we will just push it around . " There was no need to score quickly because they did not require 6 and 7 runs per over that sometimes you require. And just push around and get the runs , " he added . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
