World Cup 2015 : India need to confront Australian demons , says Steve Waugh The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Mar 21 , 2015 , 04.15PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Former Australian captain Steve Waugh said on Saturday that India need to confront their mental scars against his countrymen as they prepare for this week 's ICC World Cup 2015 semifinal clash here . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Australia dominated India , in both Tests and One-Day Internationals ( ODIs ) , prior to the World Cup at home . Waugh said while the Michael Clarke-led Australian side enjoyed a psychological advantage over the defending champions , he was impressed by India 's recent form . " I think Australia will , mentally , be a lot tougher game for them. India has been consistently beaten by Australia over the last couple of months and they 'll definitely remember that , " he said in an interview . " Having said that , ( India ) look to be in good form. They 're playing very well and their batting is capable of chasing any target. They 've played well ( during the Cup ) and they 're on a good streak at the moment . " This is a game where both teams will feel a bit apprehensive. They 'll ( both ) feel confident but if they do n't bring their A game they 're not going to win. " Waugh , who captained Australia to Cup success in 1999 , said it pleased him to think the Aussies still had plenty of improvement in their game at the knockout stage of the tournament . " It was a good win ( against Pakistan on Friday night ) but I think there 's still a fair bit of work for them to do , " he said . " The team is building momentum. I do n't think we 've seen the best out of them yet and I see that as a good sign because ( it means ) they 're capable of improvement still. " Waugh , who spent time with the Australians in the lead-up to Friday 's quarterfinal triumph over Pakistan , added that he felt the team were ready for a " big opportunity " . " It was only a quick trip ; dinner with the team , attending a team meeting and then a training session the next day. ( My role ) was more about talking to the guys , it was very relaxed , " he said . " I thought the team was very focussed. The training system was very sharp and intense and being match simulated in its type. I was very impressed by the environment , they seemed like they 're ready for a big opportunity. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
