World Cup 2015 : Indians have got what it takes to beat South Africa , says Laxman The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 17 , 2015 , 05.19PM IST VVS Laxman , a veteran of 134 Tests and 86 ODIs , feels that Indian bowlers will have a spring in their step after their good showing against Pakistan. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Notwithstanding India 's winless streak against South Africa in World Cups , VVS Laxman feels the 'Men in Blue ' can beat the Proteas as confidence levels are high after the victory against Pakistan and the batting line-up has enough depth to take on Dale Steyn and company . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " Even though the results did not go India 's way in Australia earlier , the current form of Indian batsmen and the way they played against Pakistan in the last game is encouraging. It shows that , having been in Australia for about two and a half months , they have got used to the Australian conditions and have adapted themselves to play on bouncy and quicker wickets , " Laxman told PTI in an interview . " Although it will be a challenge to play against the likes of Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel or Imran Tahir , the Indian batting line-up has enough depth and talent to do well against any bowling lineup in the world , " he added . Laxman , a veteran of 134 Tests and 86 ODIs , also feels that India 's bowlers will have a spring in their step after their good showing against Misbah-ul-Haq and company . " After winning the opening match against Pakistan , the confidence quotient is high among the Indian bowlers and that will come in handy when bowling to the formidable South African batting line-up. In the game against Pakistan , all the bowlers bowled to a plan and picked wickets consistently , " the stylish Hyderabadi batsman said . " Umesh Yadav and Mohammed Shami executed the plan to perfection by bowling in the right areas while Ravichandran Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja kept pressure on the Pakistani batsmen with their spin , " he added . India lost to the Proteas in 1992 , 1999 and 2011 in World Cup but Laxman opined that what happened in the past does not matter . " A lot of players from the current Indian XI have not been there in the previous match or encounters and so it is difficult to take the outcomes of previous encounters into consideration . " The players will know the strength and the weaknesses of the opposition team and should focus completely on playing to their potential to overcome the challenges and do well in the current match , " he said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
