India 's Virat Kohli prepares to bat in the nets in Sydney. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : An acquaintance from New Zealand who works in Sydney and hates the Australians - looks like they all do - is a huge cricket fan . Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 He likes Australia but not the Australians. " Very rude people , " he says . Come Thursday , this Kiwi will head to the Sydney Cricket Ground ( SCG ) for the second semifinal of the World Cup and there 's little doubt where he 'll put his money. " Virat Kohli . I like that guy. He 's a fighter , " he says . There are Indians , Pakistanis , Sri Lankans and Bangladeshis here in this country who probably share the thought with him . Living in a country where they 've grown accustomed to the 'arrogance ' of beer-drinking Aussies who get coached the 'Aussie Way ' , sport Merv Hughes moustaches , flaunt the country 's phenomenal sporting achievements , and do n't mind foul-mouthing an opponent , they hate their hosts ' desire to succeed at all times . Who 'd listen to an Aussie chestbeat about his chances of winning another World Cup now when they 've already won four and think they 're good enough this time to bag the fifth one. Collectively , if these folks needed a hero to single-handedly fight - what they 've come to believe is a sheer condescending attitude on part of their hosts - they 've found one in Kohli. The young man from India who 's gone around these parts flipping fingers , mouthing off adjectives and scoring a few runs too , might well turn out to be the rallying figure for all of them . Armed with Kohli , they 'll be at the SCG on Thursday , willing the Indian to inflict a numbing loss on the Aussies . Three years ago , on a darned January afternoon , as a 23-year-old , he thought it was time for retribution as tempers flew all around and he was more than happy to give it right back. That day Virat rose in the eyes of all the 'victims ' and they loved it when he paid the Aussies back in their own coin . Kevin Pietersen , who 's seen worse at MCG 's Bay 13 though , asked Virat to relax. The young man tweeted why he would n't mind giving it back again . What Virat 's 'fans ' did n't figure out for a while though was that they were n't the only ones appreciating the indecent gesture. The Australians , who were at the receiving end , began admiring him too. " They like it when someone gives it back to them. They see a challenge and they love one , " reminded Wasim Akram just before the knockouts began . It 's been evident in matches featuring India these days that none of the players , regardless of the opposition , like to have a go at Virat. They do n't mind targeting the others too , like David Warner 's run-in with Rohit Sharma or Jimmy Anderson 's spat with Ravindra Jadeja . Virat , they 've come to figure , has grown up to relish it. He loves a chat and it was pretty evident during Warner 's clash with Rohit in the series before the World Cup where the Aussie opener clearly tried avoiding the India No. 3 . In Sydney , like in Melbourne , Virat is easily the darling of many - with Indians leading the pack , of course ; they ' all be queueing up on match day to chant his name . It began the other afternoon when the team landed at the Sydney airport from Melbourne and young Indian men from faraway suburbs of Paramatta and Harris Park greeted him rapturously . The semifinal will be India 's first match in Sydney in this tournament , a city that boasts of the maximum Indian population in Australia. From Strathfield to Homebush , Rhodes and Chatswood , they 've all spread out over the years to form a community that 's pretty visible. The Liberty Grove - where a couple of Indian cricketers visited on Sunday - is in fact a neat replicae of a GK in New Delhi or a Bandra in Mumbai , a sign of how well the Indian community has been doing here Down Under . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
