World Cup 2015 : Indian team downplays Virat Kohli 's outburst against journalist The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Mar 4 , 2015 , 10.40PM IST A furious Kohli allegedly used obscene language against Hindustan Times writer Jasvinder Sidhu. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 PERTH : The Indian cricket team on Wednesday tried to play down Tuesday 's incident when vice captain Virat Kohli hurled abuses at a Hindustan Times correspondent during the team 's training session here . Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 A furious Kohli allegedly used obscene language against Hindustan Times writer Jasvinder Sidhu to the shock of many journalists present at the Murdoch Oval here . The Indian team disputed Sidhu 's version , saying no abusive language was used and that Kohli had apologised directly to him . READ ALSO : Kohli 's abusive behaviour reported to ICC , BCCI " There was a misunderstanding and no abusive language was used. Virat has spoken to the concerned gentlemen immediately and matter ends , " India team manager RN Baba was quoted as saying by the Sydney Morning Herald . However , Sidhu wrote in an article that " when I turned my attention towards Virat , I realised he was getting worked up and raising his voice at me. His furiously wagging index finger left no room for doubt - I was clearly the victim of his scorn . " However , to confirm , just in case , I pointed towards myself and gestured if he was talking to me. The confirmation came with another gesticulation. Unable to believe that I was the one being singled out , I looked askance in either direction. Huffing and puffing , Kohli said , 'Yes ba * * * d ... you are here also'. " Kohli reportedly then headed to the dressing room but reappeared 15 minutes later smiling at Sidhu. Kohli then relayed an apology through another reporter , saying he had mistaken Sidhu for someone else . However , Sidhu wrote : " I would like to reiterate that Kohli did n't apologise to me directly. " Kohli 's outburst came in the wake of a report in some other daily vis-a-vis his girlfriend and actress Anushka Sharma staying with him during the England tour last year despite a ban by the Indian cricket board . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
