India 's Shikhar Dhawan watches a ball as he bats in the nets ahead of the Cricket World Cup semifinal against Australia. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Half a dozen tennis balls , a racquet to serve and a hard strip to bat on. That 's all it took skipper MS Dhoni and opener Shikhar Dhawan to keep themselves busy in the nets during India 's rigorous training session at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Monday . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Short , in the line of the offstump ; short , right into the body ; short , above shoulder height : Dhoni kept serving them and Dhawan tried to come up with a proper response , giving a good indication of what the team has been expecting of the Australians here at the SCG. The Australians have been busy making a big noise already , wanting to go after the Indians with pace and bounce - factors they think are best to keep the opposition in check here . " Naturally , in One-day cricket , short pitch bowling is used. I do n't think it 's going to be any different ( on Thursday ) . They can train the way they want to train , that 's up to them , " said Aussie allrounder James Faulkner , sounding the bugle. For India , a major chunk of Thursday 's battle will revolve around how their batsmen perform. And that performance will depend solely on what kind of rhythm the Aussie pacemen enjoy and how India 's openers tackle the first mandatory Powerplay. That is precisely where the match is expected to be won or lost where India is concerned . Faulkner , though , says it 'll depend on the wicket. " If there is bounce and carry and you see a weakness , you can try and expose. We have n't spoken about the Indian team yet , it is only Monday. At the moment we will just concentrate on training and get ready to go. We will have our group discussion later in the week , " says the Aussie . Contrary to the Pakistan captain Misbah-ul-Haq 's views on the conditions at SCG , Faulkner said the wicket here may not assist spin. " The wicket against Sri Lanka did n't spin and it was quite easy to get hold of. I am not sure what make-up they will go in with and not sure about the make-up of our side. It depends on the wicket and what is produced on gameday , " says Faulkner . The only factor bothering Australia at the moment , as skipper Michael Clarke pointed out in Adelaide , is the amount of time India have spent already playing in these conditions and how they seem to have learnt about it over a period of four months now . " We have come up against them a hell lot in the last 12-18 months. You have seen that they have spent a fair bit of time in the country and adapted well to the conditions. There is no surprise that they are up against us in the semifinal , " says Faulkner. " They are a very strong team and I think we are as well. It is going to be a great contest. " Dhoni spending time with Dhawan at the nets was perhaps an indication of how much the Indian captain wants the left-hander to get going in Thursday 's game. With Rohit Sharma back in touch , and obviously being a good player of pace bowling , half of Dhoni 's headaches will be sorted out if the opening duo gives India a good start . That would mean tackling Australia 's pace attack - the obvious key to a host of problems . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
