World Cup 2015 : India 's departure delayed by rain The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 24 , 2015 , 10.19AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 After the stupendous performance against South Africa on Sunday night in Melbourne , it seemed the Rain Gods did not want the Indian team to leave the city in a hurry. As the players were about to board the 13 : 05 Qantas flight to Perth from Melbourne , a storm hit the city and the resulting thunder and rain caused a delay of about two hours. It did n't dampen the spirits of the boys though as the players joked with each other and were playing pranks. The team reached Perth over two hours behind schedule and the players chose to rest in the hotel . 'Closer to home' It seems Rohit Sharma has started feeling a touch homesick after spending three months in Australia. After landing in Perth , the stylish opening batsman tweeted that the team is " happier going to Perth as it takes us closer to the home. " Perth , located near the Western Australian coast has a time difference of only two and a half hours from India which is different to other Australian cities like Melbourne , Sydney and Brisbane , which are five and a half hours ahead of India. It takes four hours to fly from Melbourne to Perth which is longer than the flying time between Mumbai and Dubai which is two and a half hours. It feels like going to a different country. " Good that there is only 2.5hrs time diff with India. Feeling much better moving closer to the home. " Sharma tweeted . More R&R for Team India It will be rest and recreation time for Team India as they will only practise on alternate days. Monday was a travel day for the team as the boys took a four-hour flight from Melbourne to Perth. They have scheduled practice only on Wednesday and Friday and will take on the UAE in their third match at the WACA on Saturday. Sunday will once again be an off-day. After the UAE game they will have a break of five days before they face West Indies at same venue . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
