World Cup 2015 : India seek to maintain winning run in last league game against Zimbabwe The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 14 , 2015 , 08.20AM IST Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : The stage is set for a dress rehearsal . India have been magnificent in the World Cup so far and everyone knows Zimbabwe are n't going to pose a tough challenge. But there 's nothing like quality centre-wicket practice with 40,000 people around. Eden Park is the perfect setting for India to fine-tune their skills ahead of the quarterfinal against Bangladesh at the MCG in five days ' time . MS Dhoni has already said that he does n't want to rest anybody unless there 's an injury concern. The team seems injury free , but it 's to be seen whether Dhoni keeps his promise and plays his top-three pacers Mohammad Shami , Umesh Yadav and Mohit Sharma. It will be their third game in eight days and it might not be a bad idea to rest at least one among Shami or Umesh to keep them fresh for the knockouts . Shami and Umesh , however , might be too keen to sit out. The pitch offers some bounce for the pacers and both of them like to bang the ball in. With the Zimbabwe batsmen being no great experts at countering the short stuff , the perception of 'the irrepressible Indian pace attack ' that has grown through the tournament might just take bigger shape on Saturday . Shami gave the impression that he was really keen to steam in. " Irrespective of the opposition and the situation of the tournament , we always look to win games. We have been playing well till now and it will be no different against Zimbabwe , " the paceman said . It 's going to be a good test for the two spinners R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja as well. The ground has short straight boundaries and long square boundaries and it will be interesting to see how they adapt to the conditions , something Daniel Vettori did beautifully against Australia . But the ones who are really going to enjoy the true bounce of the Eden Park pitch are the Indian batsmen. Rohit Sharma , who has got two fifties in the tournament , looked the keenest during practice and he will be looking for the real big one. Rohit was seen having a long stint at the Eden Park 2 centre wicket under the watchful eyes of Duncan Fletcher. Some of his straight hits looked gorgeous and if those start coming off on Saturday , it 's going to be one big party for the Mumbai batsman . " We all know India are a batting powerhouse. The bowlers too have done the job for them in this World Cup and that is what is making them look good. We have our plans and preparations , but we know India will come hard at us , " Zimbabwe 's stand-in captain Brendan Taylor said . Taylor will leave Zimbabwe to play in English county cricket for the next three years. It will be the last international game for him unless he decides to come back after three years. " It 's a great stage to leave international cricket. I would like to make it memorable. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
