World Cup 2015 : India should not concede cheap runs in Powerplay overs The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 20 , 2015 , 08.55AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 There are chinks in India 's armour that need to be fixed before they take on South Africa in their second World Cup match at the MCG on Sunday. The Men in Blue have been found wanting more often than not in the first 10 overs of Powerplay , while batting or bowling. That is a crucial phase in the game where a team can either stamp its authority or allow the other to run away with the match . Losing too many wickets or conceding too many runs in those first 10 overs can set the team back , forcing it to play catch-up. Indian skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni has been vocal about this problem , especially on the bowling front. India 's new ball bowlers have often been guilty of giving away too many loose deliveries , leading to a spate of boundaries when there are just two fielders outside the circle . Umesh Yadav and Mohammed Shami have the tendency to bowl either too short or too full for the opening batsmen to take advantage. During his interaction with the media in Adelaide , Dhoni had said that this is one area where the team needs to improve. " Our bowlers tend to give away too many boundary balls in the bowling Powerplay. They need to hit the right line and length to put the rival batsmen under pressure. Let them come to you rather than giving them loose balls. That is the only to force the batsmen to make an error , " Dhoni had then said . In the opening match against Pakistan , Shami bowled an excellent short delivery to get rid of Younis Khan and push the rivals on the back-foot. But at the other end , Yadav bowled too short too often and was taken apart , which forced Dhoni to change his plans and bring in third seamer Mohit Sharma early into the attack. " I had to take Umesh off early as he was giving away runs. It was only when I brought him back in the middle overs that he maintained a good line at a decent pace to keep the batsmen in check , " Dhoni later pointed out . The Indian captain tried out a lot of combinations during the Tri-series and warm-up games leading up to the World Cup , giving the new ball to Stuart Binny , Bhuvnehswar Kumar and even Mohit Sharma. It was only in the last warm-up match against Afghanistan that he handed the new ball to frontline bowers Shami and Yadav , a gambit he adopted against Pakistan and might continue to do so in the next few matches . Some former cricketers have pointed out that India 's bowling is their weakest link , especially their performance with the new ball. It is imperative for the team management to ensure that this weakness is addressed at the earliest . Similar is the case with India 's bat ting against the new ball. Very rarely have the Indian openers given the team a decent platform to the middle-order batsmen. In the Triseries , Shikhar Dhawan was miserably out of form and the problem was compounded by Rohit Sharma 's injury after he had struck a brilliant century against Australia at the MCG . With Dhawan having regained a semblance of form and Rohit fit again , India have their opening pair in place. But they will be tested to the hilt against the hot and hostile combination of Dale Steyn , Mornie Morkle and Vernon Philander . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
