World Cup 2015 : India win fifth game in a row to top group The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 11 , 2015 , 09.17AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 HAMILTON : A beautiful Hamilton twilight dissolved into a gorgeous evening and India shone even brighter under lights. A top spot in the group was assured , and so was nine wins on the trot in World Cups. But the biggest positive from the eight-wicket Irish decimation on Tuesday was the way every piece of the Indian jigsaw fell into place . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The spinners came into their own after a good Irish start , the pacers did their job at the death to keep the target to 260 and finally it was the well-oiled batting machine that took over. Shikhar Dhawan ( 100 off 85 balls ) completed his second century of the tournament as the 'jai ho ' chants got louder and louder on the grass banks of Seddon Park . Dhawan seems to have left the nightmare of 2014 well behind him. And with Rohit Sharma ( 64 off 66 balls ) finding the gaps with ease , the opening partnership yielded 174 in 23.2 overs , which took the game completely away from Ireland . The Irish attack , of course , lacked teeth and there was absolutely no lateral movement off the track. Both Dhawan and Rohit thrust their front foot forward and kept driving through the line and the target kept coming down. The occasional short termined to get to three figures. He pushed one towards the onside and scampered home for his eighth ODI century and the trademark Dhawan celebration said it all. It seemed he wanted to give his other teammates some batting practice when he went for an across-the-line slog and offered a skier . Ajinkya Rahane ( 33 n.o. ) and Virat Kohli ( 44 n.o. ) did n't miss out on the chance and played some fluent shots to notch up the win in 36.5 overs. India , though , could have been chasing a bigger target had it not been for the guile of offie R Ashwin ( 2-38 ) and part-time spinner Suresh Raina ( 1-40 ) . With the pitch being a little slow , both of them varied the pace intelligently and struck at crucial junctures to stifle the run flow . Ireland , in fact , were 206-4 in 38 overs and were looking good for a score of 300 when Ashwin removed Andy Balbirnie , who top-edged a sweep to offer a catch at short fine-leg . Ireland completely lost their momentum after that and pacer Mohammad Shami ( 3-41 ) hit the right length after an unimpressive first spell. Shami kept the ball up in the end overs and allowed it to move in the air. Niall O'Brien ( 75 off 75 balls ) was looking good but his uppish flick went straight to square leg - 300 was immediately out of the window . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
