World Cup 2015 : Iqbal leads Bangladesh to important win over Scotland The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 5 , 2015 , 11.45AM IST Bangladesh 's Tamim Iqbal plays a shot during their Pool A World Cup match against Scotland at Saxton Park Oval in Nelson. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 Tamim Iqbal came agonisingly close to scoring Bangladesh 's first World Cup century as his side completed a six-wicket win over Scotland in their Pool A clash at Saxton Oval in Nelson on Thursday . Scorecard Iqbal scored 95 , while Mohammad Mahmudullah ( 62 ) and wicketkeeper Mushfiqur Rahim ( 60 ) also contributed as Bangladesh achieved 322-4 , their highest successful run chase in one-day internationals . Shakib Al Hasan ( 52 not out ) and Sabbir Rahman ( 42 not out ) guided Mashrafe Mortaza 's side home with 11 balls to spare to cap off the perfectly timed run chase . The victory put all the pressure on England for their showdown with Eoin Morgan 's side on March 9 in Adelaide , with Bangladesh now on five points and level with third-placed Australia , while England have two . Both have just two games remaining to play . Scotland had been well placed to achieve their first World Cup victory , days after throwing away the opportunity against Afghanistan , after Kyle Coetzer had scored a career-best 156 in his side 's 318 for eight . The 30-year-old 's innings was the first World Cup century by a Scotland batsman and also the highest score by someone from an associate nation at the global showpiece . It also ensured his team posted their highest score against a Test nation . Coetzer , who was named man-of-the-match , shared in a 141-run partnership with captain Preston Mommsen ( 39 ) and 78 runs with Matt Machan ( 35 ) to anchor the innings . Scotland enjoyed their third 300-plus score in one-day internationals , having also achieved the mark against Ireland in 2011 and Canada in 2014 . After Coetzer was dismissed in the 45th over with Scotland 269 for five , Richie Berrington ( 26 ) and Matt Cross ( 20 ) combined for a quickfire 39 runs that saw their side past 300 . Bangladesh 's run chase was hampered before they even took the field with Anamul Haque ruled out after he dived to prevent a boundary in the 31st over and appeared to dislocate his right shoulder . He was immediately treated by medical staff but did not re-appear on the field during the remainder of Scotland 's innings and was sent to hospital for scans . Television showed him in a sling with an ice bag strapped to his shoulder . He was not needed as his team mates never looked in desperate trouble against Scotland 's attack despite some nervous moments after Mushfiqur holed out to Calum MacLeod at long-on with 72 runs still needed for victory . Shakib and Rahman however calmly ticked off the runs with the occasional big shot mixed with singles to achieve the win . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
