World Cup 2015 : Ireland fury over 'vicious personal attack ' on Mooney The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 11 , 2015 , 12.27PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : The Zimbabwe and Ireland teams at the World Cup united on Wednesday to condemn a newspaper article which mocked Irish all-rounder John Mooney 's battle with alcohol and depression . Mooney took the boundary catch which eliminated the Africans from the World Cup in Hobart last Saturday . But his match-winning efforts were greeted in the Zimbabwe Herald under the headline : " Alcoholic dumps Zim out of WC " . The 33-year-old Mooney has suffered from depression and battled alcohol abuse in the past and was forced to quit Ireland 's tour of the West Indies last year . Zimbabwe batsman Brendan Taylor , who was the stand-in captain in Saturday 's game , issued an apology to Mooney on Wednesday . " On behalf of the Zimbabwe cricket team , we just want to express our apologies to @ Irelandcricket and John Mooney for the unacceptable article , " tweeted Taylor , who made 121 in the game which his team lost by an agonizing five runs . Taylor shared a fifth-wicket stand of 149 with Sean Williams ( 96 ) but the game -- and Zimbabwe 's future in the tournament -- turned with Zimbabwe needing 32 to win off 20 balls when Williams hooked Kevin O'Brien towards deep midwicket where Mooney reached high to grab the ball . There were doubts over whether the big Irishman had touched the boundary with his foot , which would have resulted in a six . As the decision was reviewed , Williams left the field and the catch stood . " You 've got to take his ( Mooney 's ) word for it , " said Taylor in the immediate aftermath of the game . The Zimbabwe Herald article questioned the Irishman 's credibility , claiming the catch " was a shameless piece of fielding dishonesty... is it possible for a person like Mooney to be trusted ? " Cricket Ireland chief executive Warren Deutrom condemned the article as " crass " and represented a " gross error of judgement " . " It would be easy to dismiss ( the story ) as a childish diatribe if it was n't for the vicious personal attack on John which can not pass without comment , and possible action , " said Deutrom in a statement . " John represents his country with honour , distinction and integrity. That he does in the face of personal challenges about which he has spoken openly and movingly demonstrates incredible hard work and great courage . " We understand , as does John , that public figures may occasionally be subject to negative comment , but in mocking John in such a contemptuous fashion , and using his personal difficulties as a mere punchline , the Zimbabwe Herald has demonstrated breath-taking crassness and a gross error of editorial judgement. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
