World Cup 2015 : Ireland left to rue the one that got away The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 3 , 2015 , 07.01PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CANBERRA : Ireland got an early and painful reminder of what a fickle mistress cricket can be in their 201-run defeat at the hands of South Africa in their third World Cup match on Tuesday . The Irish , who came into the contest at Manuka Oval with a burgeoning reputation and two victories under their belts , had already removed South African opener Quinton de Kock when Kevin O'Brien came on to bowl in the sixth over . De Kock 's partner Hashim Amla , who had scored 10 runs , clipped the first delivery to Ed Joyce at mid-wicket only for the former England batsman to put the catch down on the Manuka Oval turf . Some 44 overs later and Amla had 159 runs next his name on the scoreboard and Ireland were chasing a nigh on impossible target of 412 for victory . " Obviously it was a big chance there and he obviously made us pay , " said Ireland captain William Porterfield . " He 's a fantastic player , we 're not going to get too many chances off him , especially in such a good wicket . " But that 's cricket , we 've got to move on from that. " Ireland 's run chase also started badly as South Africa 's pacemen Dale Steyn and Kyle Abbott combined to reduce them to 42 for four in the ninth over . Andrew Balbirnie and O'Brien stopped the rot with a 81-run partnership , however . Stiff Irish resistance kept the contest alive until the 45th over and avoided the embarrassment of the heaviest defeat in more than four decades of one-day internationals . " When you are four down coming out to 10 , you are going to struggle , " Porterfield added . " All credit to the lower order , there was some pretty aggressive bowling out there but they stuck at it . " I was very pleased the way we kept going on the field , as well , coming down the back end. Just a lot of enthusiasm and a lot of energy shown then . " It was quite easy to drift away , but no one really shied away from the task of either taking the ball or in the field , which was pleasing. " Irish pride may have taken bit of a dent but their hopes of a quarter-final spot are still very much alive , with Saturday 's match against Zimbabwe in Hobart looming as a crunch game . " Every game throughout is a two-pointer for us , and Hobart is no different , " said Porterfield . " Now we 've got to take what we can from this game and move forward to there , and obviously two points up for grabs , and it 's a pretty big two points for us. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
