World Cup 2015 : Ireland post best ODI total of 331/8 against Zimbabwe The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 7 , 2015 , 01.06PM IST Ireland batsman Ed Joyce looks on after playing a shot at the Bellerive Oval ground during the 2015 Cricket World Cup Pool B match against Zimbabwe. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 HOBART : Ed Joyce struck an impressive hundred as Ireland posted their highest ODI total of 331 for eight against Zimbabwe in their pool B match of the ICC cricket World Cup here on Saturday . Scorecard Zimbabwe 's decision to put Ireland in after winning the toss backfired spectacularly as the European giant-killers rode on Joyce ( 112 ) and Andy Bilbirnie 's ( 97 ) lucid knocks to better their previous best of 329 , made against England in 2011 . Bilbirnie was unlucky to miss out on a hundred when he was run out by Zimbabwe 's stand-in skipper Brendan Taylor in the 50th over while attempting a tough second run . It was not the ideal start for the Irish as they lost the reliable opening pair of skipper William Porterfield ( 29 ) and Paul Stirling ( 10 ) cheaply but the team 's middle order more than made up for it . Joyce and Bilbirnie were the star performers with their brilliant individual innings and a 138-run third-wicket partnership , which was brisk when it came to scoring but steady at the same time . They were together on the crease for a total of 18.3 overs and laid the foundation for Ireland 's best ODI score before a late collapse prevented them from going full ballistic . Joyce struck nine fours and three sixes during his 103-ball stay in the middle , while Bilbirnie smashed seven fours and cleared the rope four times during his 78-ball knock . Gary Wilson 's 25-run cameo , which came off 13 balls and included three fours and a six , was another noteworthy contribution in the team total . For Zimbabwe , Tendai Chatara and Sean Williams were the pick of the bowlers with figures of 3/61 and 3/72 respectively . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
