WhatsApp message on ICC World Cup being fixed proves to be false The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Feb 22 , 2015 , 07.25PM IST According to the message , India will not be able defend their World Cup title. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Followers of cricket had gone crazy over a viral message on WhatsApp these past few days that said the Cricket World Cup currently on in Australia is fixed . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 It seemed there was some truth in it when the initial matches all went as per script. But they have n't gone as per script since . The message had predicted that the West Indies would lose to Pakistan on Saturday , but it was the other way around . The message had also predicted that India would lose to South Africa on Sunday , but MS Dhoni and his men went on to break their World Cup jinx against the Proteas with a magnificent 130-run victory . The message showed that South Africa will defeat hosts Australia in the final for their maiden World Cup title victory . We are allowing the original story below for the fun element involved in it . Here is what the message had predicted : According to the message , India will beat New Zealand in the first quarterfinal , but will go down to Australia in the semifinal . According to the message , India will beat New Zealand in the first quarterfinal , but will go down to Australia in the semifinal . The message stated that the second quarterfinal will be between Australia and Zimbabwe , in which Australia will be the winners , South Africa will beat England in the third quarterfinal and Sri Lanka will register their first World Cup victory against Pakistan by beating the 1992 champions in the fourth quarterfinal . The message showed that South Africa will defeat hosts Australia in the final for their maiden World Cup title victory . But Asian giants India and Sri Lanka wo n't progress beyond the semifinals as they will be beaten by arguably the two best teams in the competition - Australia and South Africa respectively , the message claimed . The message showed that South Africa will defeat hosts Australia in the final on March 29 at the Melbourne Cricket Ground for their maiden World Cup title victory . Now ofcourse it has been proven that much of the relief of the International Cricket Council , the message was a joke and a bad one at that . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
