World Cup 2015 : Ishant helped me a lot , says Mohit Sharma The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Mar 9 , 2015 , 11.02PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 HAMILTON : Pacer Mohit Sharma , who has been a revelation in the ongoing cricket World Cup , credited injured Ishant Sharma for his own success . " When I came over to Australia , Ishant helped me a lot. During our practices , he helped with his inputs like what should be the length with the new ball and with the old ball , " Mohit said ahead of India 's next Pool B match against Ireland here on Tuesday . " Ishant has visited Australia twice , so he is very experienced and quite aware of the conditions in Australia. It helped a great deal that we used to discuss these things during practice sessions. " Mohit was named as Ishant 's replacement in the Indian squad following the latter 's knee injury. The Haryana fast bowler has been brilliant in the tournament , picking up six wickets so far with an economy rate of less than four in three of the four matches played . " We have done pretty well as a unit. The way ( Mohammed ) Shami and Umesh ( Yadav ) are bowling , it has helped me a lot. They have been bowling really well and have been able to exert a lot of pressure up front , " said the 26-year-old , who has played 16 One-Day Internationals ( ODI ) . " My job is to maintain that pressure so that ( Ravichandran ) Ashwin and ( Ravindra ) Jadeja are benefited from it later. " After beating Pakistan , South Africa , the United Arab Emirates and the West Indies on a trot , India qualified for the quarter-finals from Pool B. The defending champions will next take on associate member Ireland at Seddon Park here . Grounds in New Zealand are relatively smaller than in Australia where India have played all four matches so far , and the bowlers have to get adjusted to the dimensions . " There will be a difference in your thinking when you have to play in a small ground after playing in big grounds for a long time. You will have to change your lines but we ca n't keep thinking too much about the size of the ground , " added Mohit . " It 's the same for both teams and we have to concentrate on our strengths and try and execute them to the best of our abilities. " Asked about the Irish , who have defeated two Test teams in the World Cup so far , Mohit said : " They have played 2-3 good games and have a chance to qualify for the knockouts. They have a good team and we have to play well to beat them and we will try to do well. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
