World Cup 2015 is most followed cricket event ever : ICC The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 28 , 2015 , 12.16PM IST " This Cricket World Cup has been the most followed and best attended cricket event in history , " David Richardson said. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 DUBAI : Overwhelmed by the ongoing World Cup 's success , ICC CEO David Richardson on Saturday said it has been the most followed cricket event in the history of the game with the India-Australia semifinal drawing the biggest crowd so far . Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 " This Cricket World Cup has been the most followed and best attended cricket event in history , " Richardson said in a statement . With two double-centuries , seven scores in excess of 150 and 38 centuries , there has been no shortage of batting prowess on display in Australia and New Zealand over the past seven weeks . And 28 four-wicket hauls , including two hat-tricks , mean the bowlers have played their part , too . " The pick of the group stage matches from an attendance point of view was the India versus South Africa game on 22 February at the Melbourne Cricket Ground at which there were more than 86,000 people cheering on their respective teams , a phenomenal result given that neither of the host teams were involved , " the ICC stated . Broadcast by 44 licensees , in seven languages across 220 territories , the India-Pakistan group match drew an approximate television audience of more than 288 million in India alone , while the Australia versus England match was watched by 2.1 million people in Australia . There are 10 radio licensees broadcasting the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 matches live into 80 territories and for those following the tournament on new media , the website has attracted 26.25 million unique visitors accumulating an incredible 227 million page views , which is a significant increase on any previous ICC event . And the tournament app has so far been downloaded 3.6 million times and has been the number-one sports app in no fewer than 48 countries . " These numbers provide a tangible measure of the success of the event - this Cricket World Cup has been the most followed and best attended cricket event in history. All over the world , hundreds of millions of fans have been enthralled by the quality of cricket on show , the exploits of the world 's top players and the colour of the festival across both host nations , " Richardson said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
