The average age of this Indian team is 27 and MS Dhoni is the oldest at 33. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : It takes time to build teams for World Cups. Bob Simpson spent a few years with the Australian team before it began emerging as the new global superpower in the game two decades ago. Imran Khan and Arjuna Ranatunga nurtured sides with great care keeping the game 's biggest tournament in mind. MS Dhoni got to lead an Indian team that had been a dominant force in the cricket world for 10 years. None of these champion teams got to beat the rest of the world overnight . Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 The Indian team that saw its World Cup campaign come to an end in Sydney on Thursday was a side in the making for three years and Dhoni says that regardless of him being around or not , this is the side that 'll continue to stay together for the 2019 edition . After the semifinal loss , Dhoni hinted at playing the 2016 World Twenty20 but it 's unlikely if the skipper - 33 years of age now - will stick around another four years. He nevertheless is convinced that the current lot will evolve in due time. " This is a very young team that has played together for a few years now. There are some very talented players who have done well consistently and they 're still learning , " the skipper said . The average age of this Indian team is 27 and Dhoni is the oldest at 33. The likes of Suresh Raina and Shikhar Dhawan , will be around 32 when it 's time to tour England. The loss to Australia in the semifinal notwithstanding , Dhoni feels this bunch will improve as time flies by . " This batting order that you have seen will remain in the coming years. So whatever they have learnt , it will help them in the coming tours outside the sub-continent , " he says . India 's Virat Kohli ( centre ) and teammates react after Australia won the ICC Cricket World Cup semifinal in Sydney. ( Reuters Photo ) At present , the skipper 's big and only concern is the bowling unit and how it 'll sustain the pressures of injuries and fatigue in the years to come. He says it 's time the BCCI and the state associations back in India start figuring out a long term plan for India 's pace bowlers to avoid burnouts . " If we want to look at the interest of Indian cricket , we have to monitor the progress of fast bowlers as to how many overs they are sending down and the amount of workload they are taking. At the same time , our bowlers should n't play too many matches in Indian domestic cricket. They should play on and off , " says Dhoni . Umesh Yadav ( 18 ) , Mohammed Shami ( 17 ) and Mohit Sharma ( 13 ) collectively took 48 wickets , an effort that left many surprised. Dhoni says that for this talented bunch to be nurtured , the state associations in India need to leave them alone to concentrate on the game at the highest level instead of pestering them to play the Ranji Trophy. " If a fast bowler refuses to play domestic matches , local associations grumble and say 'now that you are playing for India , you wo n't play for us ' , " observes the skipper. " These problems need to be tackled. " He strongly opposes this trend and has urged the board to monitor these players closely. " There are no checks and balances on the number of overs they are being asked to bowl. At the international level , the intensity level required is high. We have seen a lot of times how a fast bowler comes to the scene bowling 145 kmph and suddenly becomes a 132 kmph line and length bowler. It needs looking into , " says Dhoni . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
