World Cup 2015 : It 's like a home series , says Vettori The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 27 , 2015 , 09.46AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Daniel Vettori has played a couple of World Cup semifinals and knows how to handle pressure. The build-up to the game against Australia has been big , but the veteran left-arm spinner is not bothered about the so-called 'pressure-cooker ' situation at the Eden Park . " It all feels like a long home series. The crowd comes supporting us , we are playing well and enjoying the entire atmosphere around this World Cup , " the spinner said ahead of the Kiwis ' practice session . The grounds in New Zealand have seen some of the best crowds in the recent times. While a packed house of 30,000 saw New Zealand thrash England in Wellington , Saturday 's game too is a sell-out with 45,000 expected to join the fun . " Most of those crowds have surely been partisan. The game in Wellington was a lot of fun and that 's what we are enjoying. You do n't always get an opportunity to play in front of 45,000 people who are all cheering for you. You should be excited by it , " Vettori said. There 's quite a bit at stake in this game against the Aussies , the winner likely to take the top spot in the group and avoid one of the stronger teams in the quarterfinals. Some of Vettori 's teammates have said it 's the biggest game of their lives , but the 37-year-old looked to downplay it. " It 's been a casual build-up. We got a few days off after the big win against England and now it 's about getting back into the groove , " he said . The Kiwis have been the eternal underdogs of the World Cup and the spinner smiles when reminded of it. " We would probably feel disappointed if we are not called the underdogs. That 's something we 've held on to for a long time. All that talk is really irrelevant because all that matters is the conversation after the game , " Vettori said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
