World Cup 2015 : It will be a sea of blue at SCG The author has posted comments on this article Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Right in the middle of the vast green expanse of Moore Park in Sydney , where the city 's gigantic football stadium and the Sydney Cricket Ground share substantial space , there 's a 'Walk of Honour ' which speaks for all the history that one can breathe around . The most famous Australian cricketers and footballers have their accomplishments engraved on plaques and memorials carved out in bronze that talk of some unbridled stories from the past . On Thursday , this exceptional Aussie sporting history will probably get buried for a day under a sea of human mass that 'll flow in from possibly all the hallowed gates of the SCG. For a day , Bradman , Trumper , Spofforth , Grimmett , O'Reilly and the likes will have to take a break . Exclusively designed saloons and beamers carrying the famous and the frenzied cricket fans from across the world will descend here on Thursday afternoon . An India versus Australia World Cup semifinal in the heart of one of the world 's most vibrant cities , at a time when both teams look good enough to clinch the title , is being seen as the epicentre of awesomeness right now . The stadium is a sellout , including the corporate boxes that have seen a demand like never before. On the eve of the semifinal , Indian businessman Mukesh Ambani and wife Nita were among a host of interna tional personalities who arrived in the city and checked into their hotels , looking forward to the match day. It 's a match that 's been touted by Indian fans in particular as far more important than the final , that is if India make it . Australian skipper Michael Clarke expects the stadium to be filled with 'blue ' on Thursday. He need n't have waited that long for his thoughts to ring true had he strolled around the SCG on match eve . Indian fans - identifiable in hundreds simply because of the Team India jerseys they sported - stood in front of the ground on Wednesday , chanting in praise of the team . The usually stern security personnel who man the SCG gates went seeking permissions to allow these fans in. Training was in progress and the players from both sides got their first glimpse of what would follow on Thursday . Throughout the knockouts so far , there 's been a listing of match tickets available through resale on accredited ICC websites. For this one , the site has n't been updated for a while now. The Indian team realises that its supporters will throng the venue and as Rohit Sharma put it : " It 'll be an honour to play in front of such a packed crowd. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
