World Cup 2015 : I want to lead by example , says AB de Villiers The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 18 , 2015 , 11.21AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : AB de Villiers believes in taking responsibility. He said after the Pakistan defeat that it was his mistake that he could n't finish the game on his own. And now , before the crucial quarterfinal game , AB , who is easily the best player of the team , said he wants his boys to follow him. " I 'm the captain of the team and I want to lead by example , and I believe the guys will follow , " de Villiers said even as his team stayed indoors , taking the day off ahead of the match . A lot is riding on him but the skipper does n't want to think about that. But ask AB if he has been proactive enough as a captain , he comes on to the front-foot : " I captain on instinct. I follow my gut feel , when we 're in the field I think like a batsman and am pretty good at that. " He does n't want to over-complicate the situation and says simply : " I make the best decision for the team. If it does n't come off , I 've learnt ; if it does , then great captaincy. " I In fact , AB went back to an incident in the 2007 World Cup , when he felt the team over-analyzed a bit too much and that led t to the team 's downfall. " I think we over-analyzed there , and there was too much chat the night before we played Australia , " AB said , referring to their semifinal loss to Australia . The captain plays a game which often releases pressure. He does n't mind talking his heart out either and he claimed that there is an openness in the South African dressing room which helps the team ahead of crucial games. " We really enjoy each other 's company. We had a wonderful team dinner last night , a nice laugh. There 's enough laughing , enough stress , enough nerves , enough good cricket , and enough bad cricket. We 've got a mixture of everything in the team and now we just have to go find a way to win tomorrow , " AB said hinting that the winds of change are well and truly blowing in the dressing room. In a day , the world will know if it 's true . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
