World Cup 2015 : I was never under so much pressure to score , says Gayle The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 25 , 2015 , 09.26AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Chris Gayle was under a lot of pressure of late. The runs were not coming , the West Indies Cricket Board had expressed its misgivings about having him in the team and even his fans were losing patience. But Gayle never lost his smile. Before leaving for Canberra to take on Zimbabwe , West Indies were in Christchurch , playing against Pakistan in a must-win game after their shock loss to Ireland in the opener . Gayle did n't score too many but his presence meant a lot to the West Indies team. He was constantly there with the team during practice , cracking jokes , playing pranks and urging the boys to get going. West Indies won and the Man of the Match in that game , Andre Russell , spoke about the positive impact Gayle had on the entire West Indian team . On Tuesday , much to delight of his teammates , Gayle smashed quite a few records on way to his double century . " Chris is just an amazing guy you share the changing room with. Even when he 's not scoring , he 's not miserable , he 's not grumpy. He 's happy , he 's laughing , he 's cheering everyone on the field , and that 's what we want from a big guy like him , " Russell said . Due to Gayle 's recent slump in form , sources close to the team management said the WICB would have been happy to leave the maverick opener out . But Dwayne Bravo and Kieron Pollard had already been removed and it would have been difficult for WICB to have a team without Gayle and Darren Sammy , another player on the verge of being left out. Gayle gave the impression after his super show in Canberra that he has kept a track of all the developments. " I was under pressure to score runs , and I kept getting messages on Twitter and on my cell phone. I have never felt this kind of pressure , but in the end I am sure I gave them something to talk about , " Gayle quipped . The Caribbean genius did concede though , that he has been getting old and injuries are having an impact. " I had injuries and people often do n't know what you are going through. I am also not getting any younger but I am really happy now. I just want to try and build on this momentum and move ahead as we look towards the South Africa game , " Gayle said. Well , the World Cup has just begun for him . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
