World Cup 2015 : I will miss wearing this red shirt of mine , says Taylor The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 14 , 2015 , 06.17PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Brendan Taylor 's voice was n't choked with emotion but the Zimbabwean was in a pensive mood after playing in his last match as an international cricketer , admitting that he would miss the " red jersey and the camaraderie " that he enjoyed over the years at the top level . Though he 's scored a fine century , Taylor 's farewell international game ended in a six-wicket defeat by India in the cricket World Cup on Saturday . Asked as to what he will miss the most , Taylor instantly said , " Well , to be wearing this red shirt of mine. I guess it 's every cricketer 's dream to put on their country 's shirt. That 's why we play the sport. We 're lucky and privileged enough to do that. I will certainly miss that. " On an emotional note , he said , " I 'll miss my teammates , the camaraderie that we have amongst each other , the good and bad times that we went through. That 's all part of it. I 've had it for 11 years and I would n't change that for anything. It 's been some special times through good and bad. " Taylor said that he was touched by the gesture of some of the Indian players , who walked all the way from their fielding positions to congratulate him on his brilliant knock of 138 in his last international innings . " Yeah , it was nice from some of the Indian guys , Shikhar , Virat and Suresh came up to me. That really was quite touching for me. They did n't have to do that. They 're established players , and that was a very nice touch that they did , and then obviously my teammates just wished me well and thanked me for the little bit that I 've contributed . " But it 's all been with them , and it 's been enjoyable doing it with them. It was pretty tough to swallow that , but it was a good feeling in a way , " Taylor said . Taylor also thanked the 30,000-odd spectators present at the Eden Park , who gave him a standing ovation once his farewell knock came to an end. He was thankful even more as more than 95 percent were Indian supporters . " Thank you. It 's just a testament to their cricket knowledge. I think they just appreciate good cricket and they saw two teams playing some pretty entertaining stuff today. Obviously , we knew who they were supporting , but they clapped when we put on a decent show . " That was always nice to see. I was very overwhelmed the way they responded , and I 'm very appreciative for that , " he said . Asked as to what exactly has been his feeling now that his international career was over , Taylor said , " There 's definitely a sense of sadness. There 's a sense of disappointment in the way we 've gone about this tournament , sad in a way that I 'm leaving my teammates , I 'm leaving my home country for a number of years . " That 's always going to be difficult to comprehend. But I guess life goes on. You 're posed with difficult challenges and choices , but it 's a positive one that I 've taken , and I 'm looking forward to it . " It 's going to be a good ride , and hopefully I can have some fairly decent success over there and try and make myself a better cricketer for it. " Taylor paid compliments to the Indian team , terming it an " incredible unit " . " They 've been exceptional. Obviously to finish top of their log ( table ) , I do n't think they 've had too many close encounters. They 've been pretty convincing in their victories. They 've been playing a lot of cricket , so they 've got some good momentum on their side . " I think they 'll look at it as a one game at a time now , and their main focus will obviously be the quarterfinals and being atop their log . " They certainly have got the players to go all the way and win it. They 've won it before , so they know what that feels like , " Taylor said . Taylor admitted that it was probably his best ODI innings but at the same time could n't enjoy it as Zimbabwe lost the match . " I think so ( on best ODI innings ) . But if you 're not going to win , if you 're going to get a hundred and not win , then it does n't feel so sweet. But I guess a hundred in a World Cup is always pretty special . " But yeah , I think in terms of their bowling attack and what they provide , they made it very difficult. So to get through the difficult periods and push on and get a hundred , that was a great feeling. It 's definitely up there , but unfortunately it 's still another losing cause , " the stand-in captain lamented . Taylor said that a total in excess of 320 might have been better and talked about the catches that they dropped . " The wicket was a little bit two-paced in the morning along with some very good bowling , but we were heading for 310 , 320 , maybe 330 , and again , that 's been the way it 's gone for us throughout the tournament , finding some momentum and then collapsing. That 's been very disappointing for us . " Also we 've dropped far too many catches , probably double more than the second most drops from any other team. I thought obviously that Suresh Raina drop was crucial . " Yes , they can bat pretty deep with Jadeja and Ashwin , but that could have been a little bit more pressure on MS , and who knows what could have happened. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
