READ ALSO : Proteas coach Domingo wary of India 's batting " Much as I see India putting up an improved performance over the past few months in Australia , fresh from their rejuvenating win against Pakistan , I foresee a South African win with their strong batting , lethal bowling and an all-round fielding side led by mercurial AB de Villiers , " Jonty said . Talking highly of the South African pace attack comprising Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel , Wayne Parnell and Vernon Philander , Jonty said that India will have quite a task against such a potent bowling on Sunday . " South African pace attack is similar to that of Australia , and more potent than Pakistan. Having seen the pace , bounce and swing during Australia 's defeat of England a few days ago , I believe that SA pacers will be able to put the Indian batting line-up under pressure , and utilise the new ball with a couple of early wickets. India 's task is really cut out , " 45-year-old Jonty , who rose to prominence with a flying run-out of Inzamam-ul-Haq in a 1992 World Cup league match against Pakistan , said . Jonty Rhodes rose to prominence with this run-out of Inzamam-ul-Haq in a 1992 World Cup league match. ( Getty Images ) India have had a mediocre Australian summer in their 0-2 Test defeat against the hosts and their inability to win a single ODI in the subsequent tri-series. Jonty believes that Proteas will try to exploit the patchy Indian batting . " So far this summer Down Under , the highly talented Indian batting line-up has yet to fire as a unit , with the odd piece of brilliance from individuals , " Jonty , who represented South Africa in 52 Tests and 245 ODIs in his 11-year-long international career , said . " The manner of dismissals against Australia this summer showed them to be uncomfortable against hostile fast bowling , with many wickets given away with bad shot selection. This is an area that the SA pacers will try and exploit , " he added . India though got some relief against Pakistan after Shikhar Dhawan , who scored 73 apart from Suresh Raina 's 74 and Virat Kohli 's 107 , found his form at the right time and Jonty said that a good opening start can trouble Steyn and company . " If the Indian openers can get their team off to a consolidated start , by not allowing Dale Steyn to pick up early wickets , then the rest of the batting will benefit from what is usually a true batting surface , " he said . " So treat Dale 's spell with the view that if he does not pick up a wicket , then you were successful , regardless of how many runs were scored from his overs. When Steyn does not pick up wickets , then the rest of the SA attack can be vulnerable , " he added . Jonty , who is the fielding consultant of IPL franchise Mumbai Indians , also had a word of advice for the Indian batsmen . " Rohit Sharma tried to pull a good-length delivery against Pakistan , and was out to a mistimed shot. Rohit and the other Indian batsmen will have to ensure that they play more with straight bat shots against pace of Steyn , especially on a good length outside off stump , as in the subcontinent , with the low bounce , this is an area where the Indian players pick up a great deal of their runs , " he said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
