NZ captain Brendon McCullum during a training session at the MCG on Saturday . Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : New Zealand is one of those countries where you go back to work after you are done with cricket . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 You do n't bask in glory for the rest of your life for having worn that wellearned Black Cap. You just become a salesman , a medical-rep , a farmer , a trader , or anything else you can become. There are so many of them . Very few — like the legendary Richard Hadlee and the charismatic Martin Crowe — live the rest of their lives just being former cricket greats . The rest get busy finding work. But that may not be the case with the present bunch of 15 Kiwis who landed in Melbourne this week for a very special cricket match . After six semifinals over a span of 40 years , New Zealand are in the final of a 50-over World Cup for the first time and Brendon McCullum is busy drilling the sense of occasion in the minds of his men. He 's telling them of the greatness of the All Blacks , the legend of Richie McCaw. He 's reminding them of all the possibilities in the match . On Sunday , New Zealand will arrive at the Melbourne Cricket Ground to take on Australia in the World Cup final in front of a packed 86,000-capacity crowd . READ ALSO : New Zealand 'fearless ' ahead of final ; Australia says skill , not emotion , wins World Cups The stands will be painted yellow. Russell Crowe fans will evoke the Gladiator . Gum-chewing Aussies will spit on their hands for a better grip of the Kookaburra ball. The notorious Bay 13 will intimidate yet again. The raging Australians — who seem to have that sense of occasion McCullum 's striving for — will come hard at their rivals once again . The Kiwis will have a lot on their minds going into a contest. They 'll have to defeat Australia not just in deed but in spirit. If they crack it , there will be stamps on their passports confirming them as legends . Michael Clarke 's eleven has gotten better with each game post their only loss — to New Zealand — in the league matches . But they never looked better than they did on Thursday , bulldozing India out of the tournament to enter their eighth World Cup final , of which they 've won four . It 's a stage they 're more accustomed to than any other cricket nation. There wo n't be any changes to the playing elevens and a preamble to what these 22 men are capable of can be read and seen in their respective semifinal efforts . While Australia demolished India , the New Zealanders played one of the best knockouts of any World Cup when they got past the South Africans in a humdinger. That match was one of the two most thrilling encounters in this tournament , the first being their victory over Australia in Auckland , an achievement that should instill a world of confidence in them . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
