World Cup 2015 : Lawson 's tip to India - Attack Aussies The author has posted comments on this article Ruchir Mishra , TNN | Mar 25 , 2015 , 09.03AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NAGPUR : At home , Australia are unbeaten this summer against India. It 's a record they are proud of as Glenn Maxwell mentioned the other day. However , a lot of water has flown under the bridge since then . Unlike Australia , India have won everything so far in this World Cup. Their weakness has now turned into their biggest strength. And such is the look of two sides that nobody wants to predict the outcome of the semifinal in Sydney. Geoff Lawson is no different. The ex-Australia speedster is loving the way Australian pacers , particularly Mitchell Starc , are bowling but he knows this is a high-pressure game and the conditions might suit India better than Australia . " I do n't see any clear favourites in this game. Both are evenly-matched sides. The SCG pitch is not going to be overtly fast and Australia 's strength is their fast bowing. So , it should be a close game , " Lawson told TOI from Sydney on Tuesday . Indian pacers have used the short ball to good effect in the World Cup. And Lawson wants them to use it against Aussies too even though the hosts are good players of the short-pitched stuff . " Indian fast bowlers have worked out what length is more effective and that 's the reason India have done very well. Shami and Yadav have found good areas. They have also used the short ball brilliantly. India should try short bowling against Australia. They must have seen what Wahab Riaz did in the quarterfinal. But it should be a well directed short ball. You just can overtly use it , " Lawson stressed . Lawson wants India to attack Australia right from the word go. " I think the mindset of Indians should be to attack all the time , whether it 's batting , bowling or fielding. They need to show good body language. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
