Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 | Match in Pics " Terrific performance team India.First win in a World Cup against South Africa.First time for me in the stands in a WorldCup.Memorable firsts , " batting legend Sachin Tendulkar wrote on his twitter handle . Terrific performance team India.First win in a World Cup against South Africa.First time for me in the stands in a WorldCup.Memorable firsts — sachin tendulkar ( @ sachin_rt ) February 22 , 2015 Former India captain Anil Kumble said , " Great victory for India. Out batted- out bowled and more importantly out fielded the South Africans ! Well played Ind ! ! , " Great victory for India. Out batted- out bowled and more importantly out fielded the South Africans ! Well played Ind ! ! @ StarSportsIndia — Anil Kumble ( @ anilkumble1074 ) February 22 , 2015 Yesteryear star spinner Bishan Singh Bedi lauded the team for showing a lot of commitment . Gr8 win India ! Superb commitment in all departments of Crkt..go & let yur hair down fellas ! ! But return 2 good earth ASAP.. ! ! God be with U all — Bishan Bedi ( @ BishanBedi ) February 22 , 2015 " Gr8 win India ! Superb commitment in all departments of Crkt..go & let yur hair down fellas ! ! But return 2 good earth ASAP.. ! ! God be with U all , " Bedi tweeted . Defending champions India now appear set for a berth in the quarterfinals after their two comprehensive wins over Pakistan and South Africa which places them on top of Group B . " Massive win ! well done shero @ BCCI ..great team efforts... Maza aa gaya. Celebration time , " said Harbhajan Singh , who was part of India 's World Cup triumph in 2011 . Massive win ! well done shero @ BCCI ..great team efforts... Maza aa gaya. Celebration time — Harbhajan Singh ( @ harbhajan_singh ) February 22 , 2015 Zaheer Khan , who played a part in India 's victory four years ago , too praised the Men in Blue . Great going # TeamIndia ! Superb all round performance ....way to go ! ! # CWC15 — zaheer khan ( @ ImZaheer ) February 22 , 2015 " Great going # TeamIndia ! Superb all round performance ....way to go ! ! , " the seamer said . International stars were also not behind when it came to praising the Indian team . " What an incredible victory for India...the @ MCG looked like the place to be ! Ca n't wait to be back in Aus in a couple weeks... " wrote England 's star batsman Kevin Pietersen . What an incredible victory for India...the @ MCG looked like the place to be ! Ca n't wait to be back in Aus in a couple weeks.. . — Kevin Pietersen ( @ KP24 ) February 22 , 2015 Former Australia opener Matthew Hayden said , " Ok steady you all.... Beating SA is not the World Cup ! ! ! Happy # india has own but still have so much to do in this. " Ok steady you all.... Beating SA is not the World Cup ! ! ! Happy # india has own but still have so much to do in this # WC2015 # juryisout — Matthew Hayden AM ( @ HaydosTweets ) February 22 , 2015 Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNew s Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
