Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Mahmudullah and Rahim , who are married to two sisters , put on 141 off 144 balls for the fifth wicket after Bangladesh were struggling at 99 for four in the 22nd over . Mahmudullah , who hit seven fours and a six in his maiden one-day international century , surpassed the previous highest individual Bangladesh score at a World Cup of 95 by teammate Tamim Iqbal against Scotland in Nelson last week . Rahim 's 77-ball knock contained eight boundaries and a six. England , with one win in four matches , must beat not only Bangladesh but also Afghanistan in Sydney on March 13 to stay in contention for the last eight . Even that may not be enough if Bangladesh , who have five points to England 's two , upset co-hosts New Zealand in Hamilton on March 13 to squeak through to the quarterfinals . Pace spearhead James Anderson doubled his haul of two wickets in the tournament by removing both left-handed openers Imrul Kayes and Tamim Iqbal in his first two overs to leave Bangladesh struggling at eight for two . Kayes , who replaced the injured Anamul Haque in the squad , was dismissed off the fourth ball edging a catch to Chris Jordan at third slip . Tamim fell to another catch close to the wicket , this time by Joe Root at second slip , but Bangladesh launched a spirited fightback in good batting conditions . Soumya Sarkar , a 22-year-old left-hander playing only his fifth ODI , teamed up with Mahmudullah to retrieve the situation with an 86-run stand for the third wicket . Sarkar hit five boundaries and a six in 40 when he gloved a short ball from Jordan to wicketkeeper Jos Buttler to make it 94 for three in the 21st over . Five runs later , England earned a major scalp when off-spinner Moeen Ali had star all-rounder Shakib Al Hasan edging a catch to Root in the slips . Mahmudullah was run out in the 46th over and Rahim holed out in the deep two overs later , but England still conceded 78 runs in the last 10 overs . Anderson and Jordan picked up two wickets each , but Chris Woakes went for 64 runs in 10 wicketless overs . England made two changes from their previous game against Sri Lanka , bringing in attacking batsman Alex Hales and seamer Jordan in place of Gary Ballance and Steven Finn respectively . Bangladesh also made two changes , dropping all-rounder Nasir Hossain and the injured Anamul Haque to play Kayes and left-arm spinner Arafat Sunny . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
