World Cup 2015 : Maxwell 's maiden ton powers Australia to 376/9 against Sri Lanka The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 8 , 2015 , 01.04PM IST Australia 's Shane Watson ( L ) celebrates reaching his half century as Glenn Maxwell looks on. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Glenn Maxwell hit a spectacular maiden one-day international century to drive Australia to an imposing 376 for nine in their World Cup Pool A clash with Sri Lanka on Sunday . Scorecard The first hundred of Maxwell 's 102 runs came off 51 balls , just one shy of the record for the quickest World Cup century , and he shared a 160-run partnership with Shane Watson , who hit 67 to celebrate his recall to the team . Looking to secure second place in the pool behind New Zealand and avoid a quarter-final meeting with India or South Africa , the Australians had initially batted with caution at a sun-bathed Sydney Cricket Ground . Full Coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Steve Smith and skipper Michael Clarke steadied the innings with half centuries after openers David Warner ( nine ) and Aaron Finch ( 24 ) had been dismissed inside the first 10 overs . Smith and Clarke 's partnership of 134 took Australia to 175 for two before they departed in successive overs having laid a solid platform for the ballistics to come . Clarke , who won the toss and sent his team in to bat , hit a run-a-ball 68 before being comprehensively bowled by one of Lasith Malinga 's trademark yorkers . That brought Maxwell to the crease and after Smith had been caught in the deep for 72 , he decided to play his natural game and take on the Sri Lanka bowlers . Displaying the full array of shots in his prodigious armoury , Maxwell secured his third half-century of the tournament from 26 balls with his third six in little over half an hour . He was dropped by a back-peddling Kumar Sangakkara on 95 and there was a nervous wait on 99 , his chance of sharing the World Cup record with Irishman Kevin O'Brien disappearing when the umpire ruled a leg bye off the 50th ball he faced . The century came up soon enough with two runs to mid-off , though , and his emotional celebration after reaching the milestone in his 43rd one-day innings was a graphic explanation of what it meant to a player often dismissed as a show-pony . He got a big bear-hug from Watson , who continued the assault on the Sri Lanka bowlers once Maxwell had been caught off a Thisara Perera full toss having hit 10 fours and four sixes in his 75-minute knock . Watson had a point to prove after being dropped from Australia 's previous match against Afghanistan and he grabbed his first half-century in his last seven innings . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
