World Cup 2015 : MCG match is home game for India , says Donald The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 20 , 2015 , 04.22PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : With the iconic Melbourne Cricket Ground set to see a large Indian crowd turning up to support their team on Sunday , current South Africa bowling coach Allan Donald conceded that for the defending champions the game at MCG would be akin to playing at home . " It 's a home game for India. There 's going up to ( almost ) 100,000 people here and there is going to be a lot of Indian support , so keeping the crowd quiet is going to be a big thing , " Donald said two days ahead of the clash that may decide who tops Group B . Donald said there was something unique about the venue and his players would relish the occasion . " You just have to walk out there , ( even when ) these stands are empty it 's an intimidating place. It 's a massive game : South Africa v India , MCG ... this is why we play for our country , " the 48-year-old South African was quoted as saying by Australian Associated Press . South Africa are considered as one of the favourites to win the World Cup this time , but Donald said his side have not thought beyond Sunday 's match . " If it ( finals ) bring us back here that 's great. It means we 've played cricket out of our socks. We 're concentrating on Sunday. That really is all that matters , " said Donald who took 330 wickets from 72 Tests and 272 from 164 ODIs . Donald could not win a World Cup in four appearances as a player but he said he has no regrets . " To not be able to walk away with a medal is a bit of a sour one , but I 've got no regrets , " said Donald , part of the Proteas ' famous mix-up between the wickets that ended their 1999 World Cup campaign in the semi-final against Australia . " Hopefully this time around there 's something waiting , but we 're very patient about that process. It 's just an awesome time to be around this team. I 'm very privileged ... I love World Cups. They 're such amazing events , " said Donald , adding that fast bowler Dale Steyn will play against India on Sunday after a bout of sinusitis . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
