World Cup 2015 : Michael Clarke goes Dhoni way , wants ODI rules changed The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 29 , 2015 , 08.53PM IST Clarke said that his views on ODI rules are his personal preference. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Echoing Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's views on the ODI four-fielder rule , Australian captain Michael Clarke on Sunday said he would like to have five fielders outside the 30-yard circle as it gives the bowlers more of a chance . READ ALSO : Rules not helping game , Dhoni tells ICC Clarke , who had a dream last day in ODI cricket after leading Australia to their fifth 50-over World Cup title at the MCG , had said that he would express his views on playing conditions , once the finals are over , and when the question was repeated today , he did n't disappoint . READ ALSO : Australia crush New Zealand to win their fifth World Cup title " I guess I would love five fielders out rather than four fielders outside ( 30 yard circle ) . I think it gives the bowlers more of a chance. I think it brings spin a lot more into the game . " The only thing is that it probably means the runs scored are n't going to be as high as what they have been throughout this tournament , " Clarke echoed Dhoni 's sentiments as the Indian captain has been a strong advocate of five-fielder theory . Clarke had a dream last day in ODI cricket after leading Australia to their fifth 50-over World Cup title. ( Reuters Photo ) Clarke , who mesmerised the 93,013 crowd with 72-ball 74 against New Zealand in the title clash , explained , why he liked the extra fielder outside the circle . " I like that extra fielder out for the bowlers , especially these days , the wickets are pretty good for batting. And I 've always liked reverse swing playing a big part in any format of the game , and I think two new balls probably takes that out of the game. You do n't see as much reverse swing . " I think back to when I started my career , those were the two areas of the game that it was quite hard. It 's hard to score when you walk in to bat on zero and the ball is reverse swinging , it gives the bowlers a chance of getting you out early , " he added . But the 33-year-old Clarke , who continues to be available in Test cricket , said that his views on ODI rules are his personal preference . " They are probably two of my personal preferences that I really enjoyed through my career. I probably bowled a few more overs in those five fielders out , as well. But look , I think the ICC deserves a lot of credit for how entertaining the cricket has been . " I think because of the rule changes you 've seen some unbelievable performances , you 've seen the game change or evolve. Guys making 200 in one-day Internationals is phenomenal , " said Clarke . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
