World Cup 2015 : Misbah-ul-Haq backs India against Australia The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 21 , 2015 , 11.10AM IST Misbah said Australia will rue being without a quality spinner in their last four clash. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Pakistan captain Misbah-ul-Haq believes India will start as favourites in Thursday 's World Cup semifinal against Australia because of spin-friendly conditions at the Sydney Cricket Ground . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Misbah , whose side lost to Australia by six wickets in a quarterfinal at the Adelaide Oval on Friday , said the tournament co-hosts will rue being without a quality spinner in their last four clash . " Playing in Sydney they will miss a good spinner , " said the 40-year-old Misbah , whose one-day international career ended after Friday 's defeat by Australia . " That could be the difference , because spinners have had a lot of success in Sydney and Imran Tahir did well the other day. So that could be a problem for Australia . " They might just be in trouble there , although it will be a tough game because both sides are playing good cricket. " Leg-spinner Tahir collected four for 26 and fellow slow bowler JP Duminy took three for 29 , including a hat-trick , as South Africa bowled out Sri Lanka for just 133 to win Wednesday 's quarterfinal at the SCG by nine wickets . But the bat dominated the ball in previous World Cup games at the venue , with Australia piling up 376 for nine against Sri Lanka and South Africa smashing 408 for five off the West Indies ' attack . Defending champions India have been on a roll with seven straight wins , defying the form book after going through a winless Test and ODI tour of Australia prior to the tournament . Australia captain Michael Clarke conceded playing India in a semifinal would be a challenge , but disagreed with Misbah that spin would be the crucial factor at the SCG . " I do n't think a ball spun in our game against Sri Lanka , " Clarke said. " It will all depend on what type of wicket gets prepared. If there is a bit of grass on it that will certainly help our fast bowlers . " If it does spin , we 've got spinning options in our squad , so I 'm sure the selectors will assess that once we get to the SCG and work out what they think is the best 11 , " the Sydney native added . Clarke said Australia had the option of picking left-armer Xavier Doherty to bowl in tandem with Glenn Maxwell if conditions favoured spin -- with the captain himself and Steven Smith ready to chip in . India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni has relied on off-break bowler Ravichandran Ashwin , who has 12 wickets in the tournament , as his spin spearhead with Ravindra Jadeja , Suresh Raina and even Rohit Sharma providing back-up . Australia have won eight of their last nine completed one-day internationals at the SCG , but Clarke was wary of a rejuvenated India team . " India are a completely different opposition to Pakistan , " he said. " They have different strengths and different weaknesses as well . " They are obviously playing a lot better than they were throughout the start of the ( Australian ) summer. I said leading into the World Cup that I thought India were going to be an extremely tough team to beat . " They are a very good team and because they have spent so much time in Australia , they know the conditions quite well. The game on Thursday is going to certainly be a challenge . " We definitely have to be at our best to beat them. We look forward to that challenge . Our attitude will be exactly the same as it was leading up to the knockout rounds . " Thursday becomes our World Cup final. We look forward to it. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
