World Cup 2015 : Mixed emotions for retiring Brendon Taylor The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 14 , 2015 , 04.20PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Zimbabwe captain Brendon Taylor departed international cricket on Saturday on a bittersweet note after scoring a wonderful century in a losing cause . Taylor , a loyal servant of his troubled country on the international scene for 11 years , scored 138 in his team 's final cricket World Cup group match against defending champions India at Eden Park . But once again Zimbabwe fell short of setting a really challenging target and India completed an ultimately comfortable six-wicket victory . Taylor , 29 , will now take up a three-year contract with Nottinghamshire in the English county championship and has said on Twitter that he has decided to retire from Zimbabwe cricket . " It was pretty tricky , " he told a news conference . " They bowled really well and then it just sort of fell into place a little bit. I said to myself as I went out today just to enjoy the moment and not put myself under too much pressure. That just helped a little bit. " Taylor said he had been overwhelmed by the applause from a predominantly Indian crowd and the congratulations he had received from the India team after his dismissal . He said Saturday 's century , his second in a row in the tournament , had probably been his best one-day innings . " But if you are not going to win then it does n't feel so sweet , " he said. " It was definitely up there but unfortunately it was in another losing cause . " It 's definitely a sense of sadness , a sense of disappointment. Sad in a way that I 'm leaving my teammates , leaving my home country for a number of years . " I guess life goes on and you are posed with different challenges and choices. But it 's a positive one I 've taken and I 'm looking forward to it. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
