World Cup 2015 : Mohammad Shami steps out of comfort zone The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 14 , 2015 , 08.25AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Ravi Shastri calls him the 'Nawab of Kolkata ' and it 's not with out reason. Mohammad Shami has blown away opposition with his pace and bounce in the World Cup so far , but it was n't such a rosy scenario for the paceman just a couple of months back . Riddled with injuries and lack of form , there were question marks on whether he could really be the spearhead of this Indian attack. But Shami has taken to the role admirably during this World Cup. He says he has learnt to take " good days and bad days " in his stride . " It 's part of life and cricket. You need to think about the mistakes that you have made in the previous game and work on them. Keeping the bad days in mind will only affect your thinking ; instead it is better to move on and think forward , " Shami said ahead of a practice session on Friday . The boy from Moradabad , who had to work hard to first find a footing in the Bengal side before going on to play for India , says , " I do n't look for the comfort zone. I need to deliver in the conditions presented to me. There are seniors whom I meet all the time and all I ask them is where I went wrong. It feels good when they come up with their suggestions. " The tough times in Australia in the initial part of the season too came up and the pacer says such things happen on long tours. " The Test matches were different. The mindset has to change when you change formats. We are no novices , we have been playing for a while and we know how to handle situations , " Shami said . The paceman spoke of his early jitters in international cricket and how Dhoni made it comfortable for him in the dressing room. " When I was playing domestic cricket , I used to think how it would be if I played international cricket with so many stars. I was lucky to have Dhoni as my captain. " His captain looks determined to win the World Cup all over again and so is Shami. " Who knows how many of us will still be here four years later , " Shami said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
