World Cup 2015 : Mooney hits back at Zimbabwe newspaper insult The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 12 , 2015 , 01.12PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE ( Australia ) : Irish all-rounder John Mooney said on Thursday he hoped the personal attack on him by a Zimbabwean newspaper would not discourage others with mental health problems from speaking up . Mooney 's battle with alcohol and depression was mocked by the Zimbabwe Herald after he took a catch on the boundary in Hobart on Saturday that helped eliminate the African side from the World Cup . TV replays were called to determine if the big Irishman had touched the boundary with his foot , which would have resulted in a six as Zimbabwe inched closer to the target . " Alcoholic dumps Zim out of WC " , said the newspaper headline which has been widely condemned . The catch " was a shameless piece of fielding dishonesty... is it possible for a person like Mooney to be trusted ? " , the newspaper wrote . Zimbabwe 's stand-in captain Brendan Taylor apologized to Mooney for the " unacceptable article " , and the Irishman thanked him on his Facebook page on Thursday . " Last night I texted Brendan Taylor to thank him and his team for their apology , " Mooney wrote in his post. " They are great blokes and they did n't have to do that , because I know the man that wrote that article does not represent their team . " The main thing that gets to me about his article is that it might prevent somebody from getting the help they need in the future. The reason I spoke to the press about my struggles was to promote mental health issues . " Using the fact I 'm a sportsman to reach people who feel they ca n't tell people their problems ... let me just say the day I told people my issues , I felt a huge sigh of relief . " I do n't want people to see this terrible article and say 'oh I 'm not telling anyone , people will slag me off , or my name will be tarnished' . " People will help you , people who you least expect will give you strength. Life will be better , not worse. " The 33-year-old Mooney has suffered from depression and battled alcohol abuse in the past and was forced to quit Ireland 's tour of the West Indies last year . The International Cricket Council has not yet reacted to the article. Cricket Ireland chief executive Warren Deutrom had condemned the article as " crass " and represented a " gross error of judgement " . " It would be easy to dismiss ( the story ) as a childish diatribe if it was n't for the vicious personal attack on John which can not pass without comment , and possible action , " said Deutrom in a statement . " John represents his country with honour , distinction and integrity. That he does in the face of personal challenges about which he has spoken openly and movingly demonstrates incredible hard work and great courage . " We understand , as does John , that public figures may occasionally be subject to negative comment , but in mocking John in such a contemptuous fashion , and using his personal difficulties as a mere punchline , the Zimbabwe Herald has demonstrated breath-taking crassness and a gross error of editorial judgement. " Moooney 's Irish team are preparing for Sunday 's key clash against Pakistan at the Adelaide Oval which will steer the winner into the quarter-final and leave the loser facing a tricky run-rate countdown against the West Indies . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
