World Cup 2015 : Mortaza let down by batting , bowling , fielding The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 26 , 2015 , 07.06PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Bangladesh captain Mashrafe Mortaza described the 92-run defeat against Sri Lanka on Thursday as " frustrating " , saying his team was not up to the mark in batting , bowling or fielding . " It is obvious we did not play well today , " said Mortaza. " We need to work hard if we are to do well in the tournament because we have to deliver in the remaining games . " Today nothing worked for us , neither the batting , bowling or fielding. " Bangladesh 's maiden appearance at the Melbourne Cricket Ground was marred by five missed chances with allowed Sri Lanka to pile up 332 for one after electing to bat first . Tillakaratne Dilshan smashed an unbeaten 161 off 146 balls and Kumar Sangakkara marked his 400th one-dayer with a century ( 105 not out ) , but Bangladesh failed miserably with the bat to be shot out for 240 with three overs to spare . " The dropped catches cost us badly , but the bowling group was not up to the mark either , " said Mortaza , who had two catches spilled off his own bowling early in the match . Mortaza dismissed suggestions that his team was overawed by their first trip to the iconic MCG , saying there could be no excuses for such a heavy defeat . " The boys were excited to be playing at this ground , but they were not under any pressure , " he said. " We just did not execute our plans , that 's why we lost . " It is never easy chasing such a big total and we did not have any big partnership. Overall it was a very disappointing and frustrating performance. " Mortaza hoped Bangladesh , who were left with three points from as many matches and play Scotland next in Nelson on March 5 , will bounce back . " Our fans expect a lot from us , we ca n't afford to disappoint them , " he said. " We have to improve. " Sri Lanka captain Angelo Mathews hailed century makers Dilshan and Sangakkara as " brilliant " . " Dilshan and Sangakkara were brilliant , they batted us through , took calculated risks and it was a great effort by the three batters , " said Mathews , also reserving praise for opener Lahiru Thirimanne for his 52 . " We were slightly sloppy in the field and could have done better , but once you 've got 300 on the board your bowlers can take chances. We 're all ready for the England game , " added Mathews in reference to their next Pool A game in Wellington on Sunday . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
