World Cup 2015 : Most eligible bachelors The author has posted comments on this article Abhimanyu Mishra , TNN | Feb 26 , 2015 , 02.49PM IST Page 1 of 4 Virat Kohli , Team : India , Relationship status : Dating The poster boy of India , Virat Kohli never ceases to be in news. Be it his impeccable cricketing skills , his sense of fashion , his attitude or his much-talked about girlfriend , Anushka Sharma. Even though he 's in a relationship , girls still go weak-kneed for this hottie . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Chris Gayle , Team : West Indies , Relationship status : Single Chris Gayle loves to live life king-size. It 's not just his gigantic sixes that make him a popular name , but also the way he relishes life when he is not playing cricket that makes him irresistible to girls around the globe. This West Indian batsman loves to party hard and hits even harder at bowlers when he 's on the field . Rohit Sharma , Team : India , Relationship status : Single One of the most talented cricketers in the current Indian squad , Rohit Sharma is also known for his shy presence on the field and prefers to let his game do the talking. The talented lad , who 's single , seems to have only cricket on his mind. We hope the girls are listening . Steven Smith , Team : Australia , Relationship status : Dating Steven Smith has been the biggest thing to have happened to Australian cricket in the last one year. He might be fierce with his bat and fielding , but he sure makes for one of the most eligible single cricketers in the world. With a boy-next-door charm , Steve is a surefire hit with PYTs everywhere . David Miller , Team : South Africa , Relationship status : Single While his aggressive batting has had many bowlers run for cover , his boyish looks , shy demeanour and a subdued charm have made him a hot favourite amongst girls all over the world . Kane Williamson , Team : New Zealand , Relationship status : Single He is being called the next best thing in New Zealand cricket. This shy young cricketer , who mostly lets his bat do the talking , has been even more shy with the media as he almost never makes news off the field. But his next-to-perfect batting makes girls from all over the world swooning over him . Stuart Broad , Team : England , Relationship status : Dating Stuart Broad , who is known to have his opposition stand by and take notice of his attacking bowling , has his heart hooked for his current girlfriend. But there has been nothing official so keep your fingers crossed , all you girls . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
