World Cup 2015 : Mumbai 's Swapnil Patil all geared to play against Dhoni and Co . The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 24 , 2015 , 06.58PM IST Swapnil was in the Mumbai Ranji squad then led by Sachin Tendulkar. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : When Swapnil Patil steps on to the field wearing the United Arab Emirates colours against Mahendra Singh Dhoni and his men in their World Cup tie , his near and dear ones would root for him but they would support the Men in Blue . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " We would like him and UAE to do well in the match but later on we would support India. It is our country , " said the wicket-keeper batsman 's elder brother Rohan ahead of Saturday 's game . Swapnil had played for Mumbai at the under-14 , under-19 and under-22 levels and was also in the Ranji squad then led by Sachin Tendulkar but could not force his way in ( ahead of Vinayak Samant ) , said his brother . When a chance arose to move on to Dubai in 2006 on the strength of his cricketing prowess for a construction company as a player-employee , the 29-year-old from Vasai in neighbouring Thane district grabbed it with both hands . " It was in 2006 when the Yogi Group asked for his video footage with a few others before selecting him to play for them in Dubai. He performed very well for three to four years before being picked to play for UAE , " said Rohan . The sales executive , who got married recently and has left his new bride Manali behind to play in the World Cup , had represented the country of his residence in the World T20 Cup in Bangladesh last year - playing against Netherlands , Ireland and Zimbabwe - but did not get a chance to play against India . After missing the distinction for Mumbai , Swapnil made his first class debut for UAE against Bermuda at the ICC Inter-Continental Cup in New Zealand in July , 2010 . He could represent UAE on residential qualification after living there for four years , as per ICC 's rules . Swapnil made his ODI debut against Scotland in Lincoln ( New Zealand ) and was left stranded on 99 not out . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
