World Cup 2015 : New Zealand bowl out Australia for 151 The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 28 , 2015 , 09.10AM IST New Zealand 's Trent Boult ( right ) celebrates dismissing Australia 's Mitchell Johnson during the Cricket World Cup match in Auckland. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : New Zealand paceman Trent Boult took five wickets for just one run in the space of 18 balls as Australia collapsed to their second-lowest World Cup total of 151 all out in Auckland on Saturday . Scorecard Boult 's career-best five for 27 triggered Australia 's slump in the key Pool A game as they declined to 106 for nine , having been well-set at 80 for one , after they won the toss and batted on a flat Eden Park pitch . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 It was only thanks to a last-wicket stand of 45 between Brad Haddin ( 43 ) and Pat Cummins ( seven not out ) that Australia got past their lowest World Cup total of 129 against India at Chelmsford in 1983 . Haddin was the last man out , caught of Corey Anderson after hitting four boundaries and two sixes off 41 balls . Tim Southee took two for 65 while left-arm spinner Daniel Vettori finished with 2-41 as New Zealand 's attack carried on from where they left off in dismissing England for 123 last time out in Wellington . Australia 's batting was in a state of chaos as they lost eight wickets for 26 runs in nine overs , with left-arm seamer Boult taking three for five in his second five-over spell . David Warner , who made 34 , gave Australia a confident start in an opening stand of 30 with Aaron Finch ( 14 ) . But once Warner and Shane Watson ( 23 ) fell off successive deliveries , the innings fell apart . Warner and Watson looked well set during their 50-run stand for the second wicket but Watson holed out off Vettori 's last ball of the 13 over . Southee removed Warner leg-before off the first ball of the next over as Australia lost their next five wickets in the space of 29 balls . Vettori had Steven Smith caught behind for four before Boult took over. Boult , who had figures of 5-0-24-0 in his first spell , removed Glen Maxwell ( one ) off the inside inside edge and then , two balls later , had Mitchell Marsh playing on for a second-ball duck . Australia captain Michael Clarke , playing his first international since December following a hamstring injury , drove straight into the hands of short cover in Boult 's next over and was out for 12 . Boult then bowled Mitchell Johnson and Mitchell Starc in his next over to better his previous ODI best of four for 44 against Sri Lanka at Dunedin last month . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
