World Cup 2015 : New Zealand letting semifinal win sink in The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 25 , 2015 , 12.07PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : New Zealand coach Mike Hesson has not really slept since his side 's semifinal win over South Africa on Tuesday while skipper Brendon McCullum wants to " stop and smell the roses " before the co-hosts turn their attention to the cricket World Cup final . New Zealand sealed their place in Sunday 's final in Melbourne when Grant Elliott hit a six off Dale Steyn to clinch a four-wicket victory over the South Africans . The win ended a run of six defeats in the last four for New Zealand and put them in their first World Cup final . " I think today it is still about letting it sink in , " McCullum told reporters at the team hotel. " When you achieve something as special as we have done you do n't want to park it too quickly . " You have got to allow yourself the opportunity to stop and smell the roses. Today is about enjoying that . " Tomorrow we will turn our attention to the final. " Hesson said he had not really slept after the side returned to the hotel from Eden Park , where they shared a few drinks with the South Africans before doing the same with family and friends . " We got back to the hotel pretty late and I was pretty wired , " said Hesson. " There were obviously a lot of emotions throughout . " I never thought we would get over the line until we saw the ball disappearing. I do n't even know where it landed. I just jumped up . " It was a whole heap of emotion , a whole heap of pride in the group . " You have got a group of guys that did everything for each other. To put in a performance like that last night , with a crowd like that , it was very special. " Later in the day the team will travel to Melbourne , where they will face either India or Australia in the biggest match of their careers on Sunday . Hesson said they would not treat the final any differently from the 10 successive games they have now won , eight of which have come at the World Cup . " We will confront the next game as we have the last 10 games , " Hesson said . " We will prepare as best as we can once we find out who we are playing and we will put on a really good performance . " If we do and the opposition puts on a better show then we can cope with that. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
