Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 New Zealand captain McCullum 's rollicking 25-ball 77 with seven sixes and eight fours at the top of the order then saw the tournament co-hosts romp to victory in just 12.2 overs of their reply in Wellington . When the umpires called for a dinner break with New Zealand needing just 12 more runs to win , jeers rang out around the packed 33,000 capacity Westpac Stadium . But although the amount of cricket played was under half the scheduled 100 overs of a one-day international , the crowd certainly got their money 's worth . Victory gave New Zealand , one of the tournament favourites , their third win in as many Pool A games while England were left with two defeats in two following a 111-run thrashing by Australia . Sensing an easy win , McCullum launched a ferocious attack on the England bowling , hitting Stuart Broad for a six off the first ball he faced . Fast bowler Steven Finn was not spared as McCullum hit six , four , four and six off the Middlesex paceman 's first four balls and then another six to bring up his fifty off just 18 balls . Tim Southee celebrates dismissing Jos Buttler ( L ) for 3 runs at Wellington Stadium. ( Reuters Photo ) McCullum held the previous record for the fastest World Cup fifty , off 20 balls against Canada at St Lucia in 2007 . Finn 's two wicketless overs cost a whopping 49 runs Chis Woakes ended McCullum 's knock by bowling him off a bottom edge. South Africa 's AB de Villiers holds the record for the fastest-ever one-day international fifty , off just 16 balls , made against the West Indies last month . Earlier it was Southee who left England clueless after Eoin Morgan won the toss and batted on a flat looking pitch . Southee achieved the third-best figures in all World Cups and beat the previous best by a New Zealander in all ODIs , recorded by Shane Bond , now the team 's bowling coach , who took six for 19 against India at Bulawayo in 2005 . Only Joe Root , last man out in the 34th over , offered resistance with 46 while opener Moeen Ali made 20 and Morgan managed 17 in an otherwise disappointing batting display . " It 's a bit of a blur at the moment , " said Southee during the change of innings. " We 're good swing bowlers and , although we lost the toss , the ball swung throughout the innings . " They say that when there 's a bit of blue sky in Wellington , the ball swings. " England were looking at a revival at 103 for three with Morgan and Root at the crease . But former Ireland left-hander Morgan , who had managed just two runs with four ducks in his previous five innings , holed out at long-on off Vettori . He was left to rue his shot as England lost their last seven wickets for just 19 runs . Openers Ian Bell ( eight ) and Moeen Ali ( 20 ) were both bowled by Southee , who subsequently dismissed James Taylor ( nought ) , Jos Buttler ( three ) , Chris Woakes ( one ) , Stuart Broad ( four ) and Steven Finn ( nought ) . He took his final five wickets in the space of just 18 balls to record the third best figures in all World Cups behind the Australian duo of Glenn McGrath ( 7-15 ) and Andy Bichel ( 7-20 ) . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
