" We know the challenge the West Indies present but the boys are in a good space , " New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum said , saying conditions were ripe for batting first . " Runs on the board will be valuable in these situations and the wicket looks pretty good. " The heavily favoured New Zealand have declared they will continue with the all-out attack philosophy that carried them through the pool stages unbeaten . They have made one change for the sudden-death match with Adam Milne returning from injury to replace Mitchell McClenaghan . West Indies , who only scraped into the final eight on a superior run-rate over Ireland , have made two changes . Chris Gayle , who had been doubtful because of a back injury , has been cleared to return with left-arm spinner Sulieman Benn in for Kemar Roach . Johnson Charles kept his place after hitting a half century against the UAE last weekend while opener Dwayne Smith was dropped . Lendl Simmons has been moved up the order to number three as a potential anchor if big hitting Gayle can produce his fireworks . " Chris comes back in , " said West Indies captain Jason Holder . Gayle , 35 , scored the only double century in World Cup history with 215 against Zimbabwe in Canberra and is seen as crucial to the West Indies ' chances of progressing into the last four . He missed the West Indies final pool match against the United Arab Emirates on Sunday and only resumed training on Friday , two days after receiving an injection in his troublesome back . While Gayle 's double ton was a standout , his form has been mixed throughout the tournament , with returns of three , four , 21 and 36 in his other innings . He certainly had no problems with his power on Friday when , during a gentle pre-match training session at Wellington 's Basin Reserve , he demolished a section of a white picket fence . " I 'm hitting it sweet , man , " the big , left-handed Jamaican told a New Zealand TV crew . Teams : New Zealand : Brendon McCullum ( Capt. ) , Martin Guptill , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Grant Elliott , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi , Daniel Vettori , Adam Milne , Tim Southee , Trent Boult . West Indies : Jason Holder ( Capt. ) , Chris Gayle , Johnson Charles , Marlon Samuels , Jonathan Carter , Lendl Simmons , Denesh Ramdin , Darren Sammy , Andre Russell , Jerome Taylor , Sulieman Benn . Umpires : Richard Kettleborough ( ENG ) , Bruce Oxenford ( AUS ) . TV Umpire : Rod Tucker ( AUS ) . Match referee : Chris Broad ( ENG ) . Weather : Fine with northerly breezes , becoming cloudy late in the day. Maximum temperature of 19 Celsius . Pitch : Westpac Stadium 's drop-in pitch supports swing , as Tim Southee 's 7-33 against England showed. New Zealand coach Mike Hesson says it has " unusual " bounce , which might disconcert the West Indies. There have only ever been eight 300-plus ODI scores at the venue , two at this tournament . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
