World Cup 2015 : No room for no result for storm-watch West Indies The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 14 , 2015 , 11.11AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NAPIER : The West Indies will be looking to dispose of the United Arab Emirates in swift fashion on Sunday , captain Jason Holder said as a looming storm threatened their World Cup play-off chances . The West Indies must beat the amateurs to make the quarter-finals , but it will be an early flight home if they lose , or if approaching Cyclone Pam forces the game to be abandoned . " It 's a must-win game for us. Obviously if the weather plays a part , it 's beyond our control , but we just need to control what we can control , and that 's the game , " Holder said Saturday . " If we can wrap it up as quickly as possible , that 's a plus for us. " The West Indies go into the match two points behind Pakistan and Ireland with all three sides in contention for the remaining two quarter-final spots from Pool B behind India and South Africa . A win to the West Indies should put them into the play offs with a superior run rate over the loser of the Pakistan-Ireland match to be played later Sunday in Adelaide . Holder was also not shy in outlining their plans for UAE who struggled against a barrage of short deliveries when they faced South Africa 's battery of quicks . " Obviously they seem to not like the aggressive stuff , so it 's in our nature to be aggressive and we just need to be aggressive and play aggressive cricket. " With rain forecast late in the day in Napier , the West Indies can not afford a washout as the one point for an abandoned game will not be enough to get them through . " I ca n't play the weather. If it comes , it comes. If it does n't , we just need to do what 's required of us , " Holder said , emphasising the need to have the game sewn up before the rain arrives , but to do so without taking unnecessary risks . " It 's ideal that we probably wrap it up as quickly as possible , but we still have to play the cricket , and to win it on merit is the best way to do it , " he said . " I do n't think we should think too far ahead but we should take it stage by stage and just try to come out with a win , which is most important. " It has been an up and down tournament for the West Indies who started with a shock loss to Ireland and were beaten by India and South Africa . But they picked up comprehensive wins against Pakistan and Zimbabwe , when Chris Gayle burst into life after a series of low scores to smack a tournament record 215 . Holder , a surprise choice to captain the side , said that before the World Cup , he did not expect to be in a fight for survival come their final pool game . " I think any team would love to have qualified by now , heading into the quarter-finals stage , " he said . " I ca n't really look back and say , well , we 've been horrible here , we 've been horrible there. It 's cricket. It 's the way the game goes. You win some , you lose some . " The better we do in this game tomorrow , the better the chance we stand of qualifying into the quarter-finals. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
