World Cup 2015 : On bail , Rubel bails out Bangladesh The author has posted comments on this article Prasanth Menon , TNN | Mar 10 , 2015 , 09.59AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Vilified and branded as a 'rapist ' back home just a few weeks before the start of the World Cup , pacer Rubel Hossain found redemption in faraway Adelaide , on Monday. The pacer 's four-wicket haul against England , including two in his last over , paved the way for Bangladesh 's maiden entry into the quarterfinals of the World Cup and turned him into an overnight hero in his cricket-crazy country . All this , however , would n't have been possible had a trial court in Dhaka this year not considered Rubel 's immense worth to the Bangladesh team , then preparing for the World Cup . Put behind bars in a case of rape filed by a Bangladeshi actress , Nazin Akter Happy , in January this year , Rubel 's World Cup dreams looked all but over. The actress had alleged that the cricketer had backed away from a 'promise of marriage ' after being involved in a relationship with her for several months . But Hossain 's lawyers , while arguing for his bail , said that the pacer 's services were very much required by the Bangladesh team in the World Cup. The magistrate found merit in this plea and granted Hossain bail till the end of the mega event . After his release on bail , Hossain was taunted by cricket fans while he was practicing with the rest of the side in Dhaka. But he kept his focus on the job at hand , saying , " I have been going through a tough time but I do n't want to get stuck on it. My main target is cricket. I am playing for my country , and I am trying to do better for the team. We have a big mission up ahead so I am focusing on how to make it successful. " On Monday , the 25-year-old lived up to his words in telling fashion against England . Hossain 's World Cup journey is not over yet - in all likelihood , he will be hurling his toe-crunchers at Indian batsmen in the quarters. Nor does he know of the fate that awaits him once he returns home but he has already vindicated the faith shown in him by the court by guiding Bangladesh to a historic triumph . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
