World Cup 2015 : Pakistan , Bangladesh fans call BCCI , mock India 's exit by singing 'mauka mauka' The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Mar 28 , 2015 , 03.52PM IST Umesh Yadav and Mohammed Shami walk off the field after Australia won their ICC World Cup semifinal match in Sydney. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 Following India 's semifinal exit from the ICC World Cup 2015 , fans from Pakistan and Bangladesh reportedly called the BCCI office in Mumbai singing lines from a popular TV commercial to make fun of the team 's loss to Australia at the SCG . As per a report in a leading English daily , the BCCI headquarters in Mumbai received as many as 200 calls - most of which were traced to Pakistan and Bangladesh - with the callers singing " Mauka mauka ! Kya hua mauke ka ? " The reference here is to a TV commercial that showed a Pakistani cricket fan waiting for his team to register a win against India at the World Cups but ending up disappointed every time. After India continued their stranglehold over Pakistan at the quadrennial event when they beat them at the Adelaide Oval last month , the 'fan ' turns his loyalty to other teams in the hope of ending up on the winning side against India. The series got quite popular . Few fans who were extremely happy at India 's 95-run defeat to Australia on Thursday , took a cue from the commercial and started making prank calls after obtaining the number from the BCCI 's website where it is easily available . " The BCCI office number is available on our website. These over-zealous people were simply happy that India lost. They pulled a prank on us but after a point it got really irritating. The advertisement was popular but I did n't expect it to come back at us like this , " a BCCI staff member was quoted as saying by the Indian Express on Saturday . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
