World Cup 2015 : Pakistan beat Zimbabwe by 20 runs for first win The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 1 , 2015 , 05.32PM IST Paceman Wahab Riaz returned figures of four for 45 to complete an all-round performance. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE : Embattled Pakistan finally opened their account in the ICC World Cup 2015 as they laboured to a narrow 20-run win over a spirited Zimbabwe in a Pool B match here on Sunday . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Opting to bat , Pakistan managed 235 for seven in their allotted 50 overs , before bowling out the African nation for 215 in 49.4 overs at the Gabba , keeping their slim hopes of qualifying for the quarterfinals alive . Misbah-ul-Haq top-scored for Pakistan with a patient 121-ball 73 while seamer Wahab Riaz smashed a quickfire 54 off 46 balls to prop up Pakistan towards the end . With the ball , Mohammad Irfan was the pick of Pakistan bowlers with figures of four for 30 , and Riaz complemented the lanky bowler well as he returned figures of four for 45 to complete an all-round performance . Zimbabwe and Pakistan now occupy the fifth and sixth positions , respectively , in the standings . Chasing what looked like a gettable total against a Pakistani attack that has struggled to contain the opposition batsmen in the tournament so far , Zimbabwe were off to a disastrous start losing both their openers with just 22 runs on the board . Hamilton Masakadza ( 29 ) and Brendan Taylor ( 50 ) stabilized the innings with a 52-run partnership for the third wicket , before the former was snared by Irfan . 'I want to dedicate this trophy to my dad and my mum , mum and dad this is for you ' Wahab Riaz # PAKvZIM # cwc15 pic.twitter.com/XIuNhTvS6i — ICC ( @ ICC ) March 1 , 2015 Taylor then added 54 runs for the fourth wicket with Sean Williams ( 33 ) , but the Zimbabwe wicketkeeper got out at the wrong time to hand over the advantage to Pakistan . Riaz picked up the wicket of Taylor , and then followed it up with two more scalps to leave the Africans reeling at 168 for eight in the 40th over . Skipper Elton Chigumbura tried to make a match of it , but his 35 off as many balls was not enough to take his team through . Pakistan have two points following a win and two defeats , same as Zimbabwe , but the minnows are a place above the Asians owing to better net run-rate . Misbah and his men had found themselves on the receiving end of intense criticism after the mauling they received from India and West Indies in the first two matches . Earlier , Pakistan 's batting let the side down yet again as Zimbabwe restricted the former champions to 235 for seven . Misbah top-scored with a slow-paced knock before Riaz 's quickfire innings , which added some zing to a lacklustre performance . Pakistan , yet to register a win in the tournament , put together yet another shambolic batting performance after electing to bat on winning the toss . The openers -- Nasir Jamshed ( 1 ) and Ahmed Shehzad ( 0 ) -- were back in the pavillion within the first five overs with just four runs on the board . Misbah , who has been criticized for scoring at a slow rate , steadied the ship with a couple of decent partnerships. He first shared a 54-run stand with Haris Sohail ( 27 off 44 balls ) before stitching together 69 runs in the company of Umar Akmal ( 33 off 42 balls ) . But the pace of scoring was such that Pakistan could not even capitalize on the fielding blunders that the Zimbabweans committed . The proceedings became a tad exciting courtesy Riaz , who smashed half a dozen fours and a six during the course of his entertaining knock . For Zimbabwe , paceman Tandai Chatara stood out with a three-wicket haul , which cost only 35 runs , off his 10 overs -- two of them maiden . Left-arm spinner Sean Williams picked up two wickets , conceding 48 runs in his 10 overs , one of which was a maiden. In all , five of the 50 overs bowled were maiden . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
