World Cup 2015 : Pakistan hand in Umesh Yadav 's success The author has posted comments on this article Ruchir Mishra , TNN | Mar 22 , 2015 , 08.37AM IST It was learnt that Umesh Yadav has benefitted from Shoaib Akhtar 's wisdom. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 NAGPUR : The double-storied mansion called 'Kishori Devi Niwas ' in Khaperkheda-Walni , nearly 18 kilometers away from Nagpur , is a happening place these days. The sound of fire-crackers could be heard here after every India victory in the World Cup. No wonder , the Yadav family is busy attending to guests these days as their boy Umesh is playing a big part in India 's stellar World Cup campaign so far. The 27-year-old Vidarbha pacer is one of the fastest in the competition and has taken 14 wickets at an impressive average of 17.78 and an economy rate of 4.50 . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The performance of Indian pacers — who were supposed to be team 's weak link — has surprised one. Mohammed Shami and Umesh have been especially effective. And there is a common factor in their success - Shoaib Akhtar . While Shami has already spoken about tips he received from the ex-Pakistan paceman , it was learnt that Umesh has also benefitted from Akhtar 's wisdom. " Umesh called me after the quarterfinal win over Bangladesh and told me that Akhtar had given him quite a few useful advises. While he did n't go into details , Umesh said it was more on the mental aspect , " Umesh 's elder brother Ramesh told TOI. Incidentally , Umesh considered Ramesh his idol when he started playing . While Umesh has struggled during the Test series against Australia as he made a Test comeback after nearly two years , his One-day form has been good. He was India 's best pacer during the ODI series against Sri Lanka at home last year. " He has improved a lot ever since Wasim Akram started working on him at Kolkata Knight Riders ' set-up. I think it 's one of the best things to have happened to him. He always talks to Akram whenever he needs any advice. They are greats of the game so it 's good that Umesh has got the guidance from the likes of Akram and Akhtar , " Ramesh said . While there have been handy inputs from across the border , the work done by the Indian support staff ca n't be ignored. Rohit Sharma and Suresh Raina praised the contribution of India 's bowling coach Bharat Arun after India 's victory over Bangladesh. Ramesh too acknowledged Arun 's contribution. " Bharat Sir has worked with Umesh from 2010 when he was India 'A ' coach. He knows Umesh right from his early days , so there 's that comfort level. Umesh had earlier spoken to me about how Arun is helping all the fast bowlers. He has looked sharper and effective too. He is bowling in the right channels and at that pace it 's not easy for the batsmen. I am sure Umesh will only get better from here. It 's his fourth Australian tour ( including two with India 'A ' ) so he knows the conditions , " Ramesh said . This is by far Umesh 's longest stay away from home. He had been part of the Indian Test squad on several occasions in the last four years but it 's been more than four months away from home this time around. " He is mentally very tough so he knows how to deal with it. Now , it 's a matter of just two good matches and a few days before he will be with us. Hopefully , we will celebrate India 's victory this time too , " Ramesh said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
