World Cup 2015 : Pakistan 's Younis wants win over Ireland for Woolmer The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 11 , 2015 , 08.05PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Pakistan 's senior batsman Younis Khan wants to put on a big performance to beat Ireland in the ICC World Cup 2015 on Sunday as a tribute to the national team 's late coach Bob Woolmer . Former England international Woolmer died on March 18 , 2007 in Kingston , Jamaica the day after Pakistan were knocked out of the World Cup by Ireland in a big upset . An inquest returned an open verdict , leaving a mystery that gripped the international cricket world unresolved . " Bob contributed a lot to Pakistan cricket and I would love to see us win against Ireland with a big performance from me , " Younis told reporters in Adelaide on Wednesday . " There would be nothing better to dedicate to Bob and also try to win this World Cup for him. " Younis , however , ruled out any revenge aspect to the clash . " It is a crucial match for us as you never know what will happen on the points table , " he said . " Ireland is a side capable of causing an upset. So we are going to take this match very seriously and there is no element of us trying to avenge the 2007 defeat , " Younis added . FINAL TARGET Younis , 37 , who has played 96 Tests and 264 one-day internationals , also felt Pakistan were capable of reaching the World Cup final despite a bad start to the tournament when they was outclassed by India and West Indies . " In our case , always when we start to win we get a boost and our self-belief back. The win over South Africa has given us a big boost and we are hopeful now that we have the capability of playing in semi-final and final , " Younis said . Pakistan are in a three-way fight with Ireland and West Indies to secure a quarterfinal spot from Pool B . " I was captain when we won the T20 World Cup in 2009 and it really felt good and I just want to now also be part of a team that can win this World Cup , " he said . Younis added that as a senior player he had made mistakes in life and learnt from them . " Every day as a player and human being there is need for improvement and you learn. I left the captaincy in the past but now I am ready to captain again because there is no bigger honour than being captain and doing your bit to take your team to the top , " he said . Younis , dropped after struggling in the first two games , said that as a senior player he always wanted to perform for Pakistan and it was frustrating when he had to sit out matches . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
