World Cup 2015 : Pakistan will bounce back from India loss , says Shahryar The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 20 , 2015 , 07.44PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 KARACHI : Pakistan could not have had a worse run up to their crucial second match of the cricket World Cup against the West Indies , but PCB chairman Shahryar Khan put his faith behind the players saying they would bounce back from the defeat against India . Reports about fielding coach and trainer , Grant Luden not being happy with behaviour of some players and that of opener Ahmed Shehzad clashing with head coach Waqar Younis coupled with speculations about captain Misbah-ul-Haq not having a final say in selection matters have all led to Pakistan fans being worried about the team 's progress in the mega event . " They are no issues in the team and the players realise their responsibility in the World Cup. I am sure they will bounce back in the tournament , " Khan told reporters in Lahore . Khan said that the team is not pressing the panic button yet . " India played better than us and deserved to win but there is still a long way to go in the World Cup and Pakistan have a strong chance of bouncing back , " he said . He also made it clear that the PCB was well informed about the team in New Zealand and Australia and there was no cause for concern . " The team management knows what has to be done to win our match against West Indies and we have full confidence in them , " Khan added . But the Pakistan fans , who were dejected with the way India steamrolled Pakistan , are sure short on confidence . " I think there is little space for any more mistakes in this tournament and Pakistan has to be at its best to win its remaining games now , " former Test leg-spinner Abdul Qadir said . " Unlike 1992 when the format allowed us to recover even after a poor start in this World Cup the format does not allow any team to continue a bad run for more than a match , " he added . Pakistan 's former captain Mushtaq Muhammad pointed out that the performances of weaker teams and Ireland 's shock win over West Indies should come as a warning signal for Pakistan . " Do n't take any match lightly and it is imperative we beat West Indies convincingly , " he said . Legendary off-spinner Saqlain Mushtaq said West Indies cricket at the moment was reeling due to internal strifes and Pakistan should take full advantage of this situation when the two sides meet in Christchurch tomorrow . " It would be foolish to take any West Indian side lightly but at the moment our batsmen need to get the momentum going and we can win this crucial encounter , " he said . Saqlain pointed out that without Sunil Narine the West Indies bowling attack lacked variation . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
