READ ALSO : Saqlain hid wife in hotel room closet during 1999 World Cup ! " We do n't want to be judgemental and jump to any conclusions before the probe is complete. But yes we feel it would be inappropriate for Moin to have gone to a casino at a time when the team is struggling and the whole nation is disappointed , " Shaharyar said . The PCB chief did n't rule out the possibility of Moin being recalled to Pakistan if the probe confirmed he had acted inappropriately . " At this time we are finding out the facts and we have no plans to call him back nor we have taken any such decision , " he said . Pakistan suffered a comprehensive 150-run defeat against the West Indies on Saturday. ( AP Photo ) Shaharyar said he had spoken to the team manager and Moin about the matter and sought an explanation . Media reports in Pakistan have said that Moin , a former Test captain , had visited a casino on the night of the match against the West Indies in which Pakistan was hammered by 150 runs for their worst ever defeat in World Cup . The issue has been played up by some channels in view of the team 's poor performances . Ever since the Pakistan team left for its World Cup campaign last month it has constantly run into controversies with reports from New Zealand and Australia suggesting rifts in the team . But Shaharyar insisted there were not rifts within the team . " There is nothing of this sort , it is just that the players have not performed well and they themselves are aware of how they have let their supporters down . " I spoke to them and I told them they can still set things right and they have promised to improve their game . " We are fully supporting the team and we also appeal to the media and critics to go easy because the players need our full support now. They can still qualify for the knockout stage , " he said . The Pakistan board and team is feeling the heat after losing its first two World Cup matches to India and the West Indies following an ODI series defeat in New Zealand . In a surprise move , Moin , who was removed as team manager before the World Cup , was sent for the mega-event against the board 's practice of not allowing its chief selector to accompany the team on foreign tours . Pakistan 's campaign hit a snag before their first match against India when some leading players , including Shahid Afridi and Ahmed Shehzad , were fined for violating curfew hours . The PCB chief said that it was confident the team could do much better in the World Cup . " Right now we have to support them. And if the team does not come up to expectations than we will have an inquiry after it returns home. We have to have some accountability . " We want the team to shake off negativity and perform without any pressure whatsoever. We fully support then , " he added . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
