World Cup 2015 : PCB to ask Moin to resign , say sources The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 26 , 2015 , 09.29PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 KARACHI : Pakistan 's underfire chief selector Moin Khan is likely to be asked to resign when he meets with the chairman of the Pakistan Cricket Board this weekend . Although the PCB indicated publicly it would be taking no further action against Moin for his indiscretion in visiting a Casino in Christchurch a night before the World Cup match , but reliable sources said the former Test captain is expected to be told to step down . " There is a strong lobby in the board which wants Shaharyar to ask Moin to resign himself after the World Cup , " one source said . " There is little chance that Moin would be allowed to continue as the chief selector even though he enjoys the strong backing of former Chairman Najam Sethi who still carries clout in the board as Chairman of the Executive Committee and as a member of the Board of Governors , " the source added . He said it was Sethi who had pushed to send Moin as chief selector to the World Cup with the team even though the PCB has never had this culture of having selectors accompany teams on entire foreign tours . " The fact is that when the channels broke the news of Moin visiting the Casino and it snowballed into a major controversy Moin was asked by the officials of the board to take a decision and announce he will return to Pakistan , " the source added . " Unfortunately when Moin refused to comply it upset Shaharyar who then himself called up Moin and told him to return home immediately , " the source said . Another source confirmed that Shaharyar who replaced Sethi as Chairman last year was never in favor of the dual role given to Moin by Sethi i.e chief selector and national team manager and he was the one who started the initiative to force Moin to choose one post . " There is a cold war going on between Shaharyar and Sethi over who wields the power in the board and Moin has benefited from this a lot. But now apparently most of the Governing Board members also want him to step down after the World Cup after his Casino fiasco , " the source stated . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
