READ ALSO : India beat Bangladesh to storm into semis But Bangladeshi fans were furious after player-of-the-match Sharma got a big break on 90 when he holed out to deep mid-wicket off Rubel Hossain , only for Dar and fellow umpire Ian Gould to signal a no-ball for what appeared to be a legitimate waist-high delivery . READ ALSO : Everyone saw what happened on Rohit 'no-ball ' , says Mashrafe Fans also protested two other decisions including a catch against Bangladesh 's best batsman Mohammad Mahmudullah that snuffled out any hope for a comeback by the Tigers . Bangladesh captain Mashrafe Mortaza ( left ) shakes hands with Indian skipper MS Dhoni after India 's 109-run World Cup quarterfinal win over Bangladesh in Melbourne. ( Reuters Photo ) " The umpires were biased. We did not mind if we had been beaten legitimately. But this is pure robbery , " Dhaka University student Mahmudul Hasan said after joining a protest march . " We protest these bad decisions. The ICC should review them , " Hasan , a 21-year-old student of history , said . Another student Topu Roy , 22 , held a placard that dubbed the ICC as the 'Indian Cricket Council ' , not International Cricket Council . " It was India 's money that forced the ICC to work against us. So it 's fair to call it Indian Cricket Council , " he said . " Bangladesh is a victim of international conspiracy , " another protester shouted , as live footage of the protests were broadcast live . Local police chief Saidul Haq said up to 300 protesters joined the march at the University . " They also burnt an effigy of the Pakistani umpire , " he said. Facebook and Twitter were flooded with comments on the " biased " decisions although most also applauded the Tigers for their best ever World Cup performance . " What we saw today , on three separate occasions , was the Bangladesh team denied a fair hearing , " wrote a Shayan S. Khan in a Facebook posting . " I 'll just talk about the no-ball , since that was the most blatant , and probably the most influential decision , " he added " What naked partiality ! ! ! Shame on you ! ! ! said Andrew Biraj . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
