World Cup 2015 : Proud of our bowlers , says India 's bowling coach The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Mar 18 , 2015 , 04.53PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : With the Indian bowlers taking sixty wickets in six consecutive games in the group stages of the Cricket World Cup , bowling coach Bharat Arun on Wednesday said that he could n't have asked for anything better and is proud the way the unit has turned things around . " You ca n't ask for anything better. Six out of six and sixty wickets can only make you proud of the way the boys have performed thus far , " Arun was quoted as saying by bcci.tv . " Looking forward , you can take the confidence and consistency of all the six matches into the quarterfinal game , " Arun said . India face Bangladesh on Thursday in the quarterfinal to book a place in the semifinals . With Mohammad Shami and Umesh Yadav sharing the new ball , Mohit Sharma has been backing it up by keeping things tight , helping spinners Ravichandran Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja pile on the pressure and get wickets . When asked how the bowlers have suddenly found the right line and length in the ongoing mega event , the coach said a detailed analysis on their poor performance before the World Cup helped them get back the right form . " I feel in the Tests and ODI series it was not the case of us not bowling well. We bowled well but we did it in patches , " Arun said . What we were lacking was bowling as a team. We worked out the areas where we have been economical and did a detailed analysis on it . " We also discussed with the bowlers that there were certain areas to bowl to which were difficult for the opposition to score off , " he added . The 52-year-old former medium pacer was inducted into the Indian team during the mid-August 2014 England tour in place of Joe Dawes . The coach said that the bowlers must complement each other while bowling and they need to understand their role and limitations . " Bowling in unison is basically complementing each other while you bowl , which does not necessarily happen every time with every team , " Arun said . " Sometimes , bowlers can get carried away if they are bowling well. At that time the bowler needs to understand his role and limitations , " he added . " Also , if a bowler has bowled well from one end , the bowler from the other end should try and not to be over attacking , instead should try to stifle the runs. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
