Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 | Points Table The defending champions finished with an all-win record in their six Group-B league matches thereby stretching their number of successive victories in the tournament to 10 over two editions surpassing Clive Lloyd 's West Indies ' record which stretched from start of 1975 Prudential Cup to the first match of 1983 edition ( losing to India at Old Trafford ) . They only have Australia in front of them with 24 straight wins between 1999 and 2011 editions , a feat achieved under Ricky Ponting 's captaincy . The defending champions will now meet neighbours Bangladesh in the quarter-final at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on March 19 . India were in a spot of bother at 92 for four when skipper Dhoni joined Raina as the duo sealed the match with a defining unbeaten 196-run record stand for the fifth wicket off 156 balls . Raina , who scored his fifth ODI ton had nine fours and four sixes , in his innings. There were the customary muscular heaves over deep mid-wicket region for sixes as were the delicate late cuts . While the first 50 came off 67 balls , the next one took only 27 deliveries as the UP left-hander suddenly put his foot on the accelerator. The only blemish in his innings was a mistimed sweep off Sikandar Raza that was dropped by Hamilton Masakadza at short fine leg when he was on 47 . Dhoni again played the role of anchor to perfection pacing his innings with precision hitting eight boundaries and two sixes in 76 balls en route his 57th ODI half-century . It was a disastrous start for India as openers Rohit Sharma ( 16 ) and Shikhar Dhawan ( 4 ) went cheaply while Virat Kohli ( 34 ) frittered away a good start , so did Ajinkya Rahane ( 19 ) as Zimbabwe did try their best to push India hard . But the experienced pair of Dhoni and Raina has seen India through in many such situations in the past and the opposition bowling did n't have the quality to keep a check on them for long as the inevitable happened . After playing himself in , it was in the 30th over when Raina released a bit of pressure with successive sixes off left-arm spinner Sean Williams. One was hit over deep mid-wicket while the other was into the first tier of the stands over long-on. That particular over yielded 15 runs and India 's chase was on track . Dhoni then joined Raina to tee off with a couple of boundaries off medium pacer Solomon Mire. First was a pull-shot and it was followed by hard slash over point as the 50-run stand for the fifth wicket came off 57 balls. The 150 of the team duly came in the 34th over and there was no stopping after that . Dhoni signalled India 's victory with a six , triggering off scenes of celebrations in the dressing rooms with the players hugging each other and shaking hands . Suresh Raina lines up to hit a four during their match against Zimbabwe at Eden Park in Auckland. ( Reuters Photo ) Earlier , Brendan Taylor played the innings of his life in his final ODI for Zimbabwe as his 138 helped the team manage 287 all out in 48.5 overs . The total was highest by any country against India in the current edition surpassing Ireland 's 259 in the previous game . Taking the Indian bowlers by the sword after being put into bat , Taylor smashed the white ball around the small Eden Park ground , cracking 15 boundaries and five sixes in his 110-ball stay . Having scored his first 50 off 64 deliveries , Taylor scored his next 88 runs in only 46 balls as the three-figure mark was reached in 99 deliveries . It was his eighth ODI century and highest by any Zimbabwean and also the first against India in this edition of the mega event . He got a standing ovation from the Indian supporters as the likes of Suresh Raina , Virat Kohli and Shikhar Dhawan congratulated the 29-year-old , who is migrating permanently to England after this match due to financial constraints . This was also one of the matches where Indian spinners Ravichandran Ashwin ( 1/75 in 10 overs ) and Ravindra Jadeja ( 0/71 in 10 overs ) bore the brunt of the mayhem created by Taylor . The pace trio held their own once again , as young Mohit Sharma ( 3/48 in 10 overs ) , Mohammed Shami ( 3/48 in 9 overs ) and Umesh Yadav ( 3/43 in 9.5 overs ) did well as the final five wickets went for 47 runs after Zimbabwe were 241 for five at one stage . Taylor was well-supported by Sean Williams ( 50 ) as they added 93 for the fourth wicket while another 109 for the fifth wicket was added in company of Craig Ervine ( 27 ) after Zimbabwe were reduced to 33 for three in 11 overs . At the start Hamilton Masakadza ( 2 ) , Chamu Chibhabha ( 7 ) and Solomon Mire ( 9 ) were sent back by the three seamers as Zimbabwe were reduced to 33 for three in 11 overs . It was time when Taylor was joined by Sean Williams as the two initiated a recovery process . Stand-in captain Taylor showed positive intent after a cautious start while Williams held anchor at one end . Among all the batsmen who have faced the duo of Ashwin-Jadeja in the tournament , the Taylor-Williams combination will stand for the manner in which they handled the Indian spin twins . Taylor took a liking for Jadeja as he swept him on a number of occasions and the moment he dropped short gave him the charge . The right-hander was also quick to pick Ashwin 's 'doosras ' as he reverse swept him for two boundaries in one over . As Taylor gave the charge , even Williams grew in confidence as he hit three sixes in the region between mid-wicket and deep mid-wicket off Ashwin . The duo added 93 runs for the fourth wicket in 17.3 overs. Williams completed a well-deserved 50 off 55 balls before offering a low return catch to Ashwin. Williams had three sixes and three fours in his 57-ball knock . But once Williams departed , Taylor upped the ante further as it started raining sixes one after another . In fact all the sixes that Taylor hit were after his half-century mark as the length balls and the short of length balls ended up in the stands . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
