World Cup 2015 : Rain threatens England with fresh misery The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 13 , 2015 , 03.18PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : England were left having to beat the weather , as well as Afghanistan , to avoid suffering their worst World Cup finish in the tournament 's 40-year history in Sydney on Friday . After three rain breaks cut short Afghanistan 's innings at 111 for seven off 36.2 overs , England were set a target of 101 to win in 25 overs under the Duckworth/Lewis method with more bad weather forecast . England have so far enjoyed just one Pool A win at this World Cup , over non-Test playing Scotland , having already failed to qualify for the quarterfinals . Back in 1996 , England defeated two Associate or non-Test sides in the UAE and the Netherlands before losing to Sri Lanka in the quarterfinals . Hopes they might finish with a win over World Cup debutants Afghanistan , who themselves had beaten Scotland , were high as the non-Test side collapsed after losing the toss . No Afghanistan batsman made more than the recalled Shafiqullah Shafiq 's 30 . First change Chris Jordan led England 's attack with two for 13 in 6.2 overs while allrounder Ravi Bopara , playing his first match of the tournament after an injury to Chris Woakes , took two for 31 in eight overs . After England captain Eoin Morgan won the toss , Afghanistan found runs hard to come by in the overcast conditions prevailing at the Sydney Cricket Ground . Openers Nawroz Mangal ( four ) and Javed Ahmadi ( seven ) both fell cheaply to slip catches by Joe Root off the bowling of James Anderson and Stuart Broad respectively . But before England could make further inroads , rain stopped play with Afghanistan 24 for two in the ninth over . The 37-minute break made little difference , with Afsar Zazai caught behind off Jordan for six shortly after play resumed . But his exit brought in Samiullah Shenwari , who had previously made several fifties at this tournament with a best of 96 in Afghanistan 's one-wicket win over Scotland . However , Shenwari could only manage seven before his thick edge off Jordan was caught by Morgan , diving forward at backward point . The fifth-wicket duo of Nasir Jamal ( 17 ) and Shafiq -- the first two batsmen in the innings to make double-figure scores -- took Afghanistan to 62 for four of 25 overs before rain stopped play again . Afghanistan captain Mohammad Nabi lofted offspinner James Tredwell -- like Bopara making his tournament debut , following an injury to Moeen Ali , for six over extra cover . But his near run-a-ball 16 ended when he pulled Bopara straight to Tredwell at mid-on . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
