World Cup 2015 : Ready to jolt India , says Darren Sammy The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Mar 4 , 2015 , 11.42AM IST The West Indies have been unpredictable in the World Cup , to say the least. But they are always cheerful , knowing full well that on their day they can get the better of any team. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 PERTH : Darren Sammy retains his sense of humour despite getting a raw deal from the West Indies Cricket Board , who have unceremoniously stripped him of the captaincy . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 When Sammy was asked who would celebrate Holi , the festival of colours , after the match on Friday , he said tongue in cheek , " Let India celebrate Holi , we will celebrate victory. " The West Indies have been unpredictable in the World Cup , to say the least. But they are always cheerful , knowing full well that on their day they can get the better of any team. Their outlook towards life is always positive . " India are playing well at the moment and you treat each of your opponents with the respect they deserve. We have always had good matches against India. As it 's a crucial match for us , we have to bring out our 'A ' game to beat India. " He said that the team was delighted to be playing at the WACA as the conditions would suit their game. " Any fast bowler would be excited to bowl at the WACA as it is one of the quickest wickets in the world. Having said that , India are playing well and our quick bowlers ca n't just come and blast the batsmen out. They have to put the ball in the right areas , " Sammy said . Sammy also spoke on many other issues. Excerpts.. . On supporting a young captain : We support him whole-heartedly. He did n't put himself in that situation. I have also been in this situation before. It 's the World Cup and we have to support young Jason. It 's been tough coming into the big event after the tough South African tour. He has shown he is a strong character and strong characters always come back stronger . On familiarity with Indians due to the IPL factor : Whenever you are going to have a battle , it is always good to know the strengths and weaknesses of the opposition. That 's something that the IPL has done. It 's given us a chance to play and familiarize with the Indian players and vice-versa On the pullout from the India series : We have put that thing behind us. We have always enjoyed playing against India. It was something that should not have happened. I do n't think that will affect us here in this World Cup match . On Gayle 's fitness : Chris has been troubled by his back for the last couple of years , but he continues to score heavily for us. There are no issues about his fitness as we have got a couple of days before the game on Friday . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
