World Cup 2015 : Really enjoy playing in Australia , says Dhawan The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 28 , 2015 , 08.29AM IST India 's Shikhar Dhawan listens during a press conference ahead of their Pool B 2015 Cricket World Cup match against the United Arab Emirates. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 PERTH : Shikhar Dhawan is a cool customer , while batting in the middle or answering pointed questions from the media. India 's leading batsman in the World Cup so far , said on Friday there is no way the team would take the UAE team lightly . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " As in any match , we have focused on our preparations and we are just going to play the game the way we have been playing , " he told the media on the eve of the match at the WACA. " We 're going to play with the same fighting spirit and going to keep the same intensity , " he added . So what has the team done differently in the absence of coach Duncan Fletcher , who has gone to Cape Town to attend the funeral of his fatherin-law ? Dhawan replied without batting an eyelid : " Well , Duncan is our main coach and he is going to be missed. But I can assure you we 're going to do the same routine. Of course , he must have discussed everything with the support staff and we will follow the routine. We 've had a few off days to relax , and now we are here for practice. So we 're going to prepare ourselves for Saturday 's match in right earnest. " On his experience of playing in Australia , especially as he now has a family here in Melbourne , he said : " Australia 's a very beautiful country and very orderly. Yeah , I 've got a home here now and my family lives here. So I enjoy coming over here. I feel it 's one of the best places to play cricket , and I really enjoy playing here. This is my first World Cup , so that has added to the thrill. " Dhawan had a lot more to say.. . On his return to form I stayed calm , kept working hard and stuck to my strong work ethics. Of course , it 's always a learning curve.I enjoy the journey rather than the destination. So I enjoyed that phase in my life as it taught me a lot. I changed a few ( technical ) things...nothing major , just little things. Probably that helped me to regain my form. When you play back-to-back good innings , you get that extra confidence going into the next innings . On Ravi Shastri His influence is huge. He 's has given me a lot of confidence and encouragement whenever I have needed it. Ravi is central to the team and support staff 's plans. If I 'm scoring runs it is because of ( the encouragement by ) my teammates and my support staff . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
