World Cup 2015 : Rohit Sharma reminds Ian Chappell of Aravinda de Silva The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Mar 22 , 2015 , 05.17PM IST Rohit Sharma played a disciplined innings and did n't hit a careless uppish shot during his stay at the crease. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Former Australia skipper Ian Chappell on Sunday said that Indian Rohit Sharma 's match-winning innings of 137 against Bangladesh in the ICC World Cup 2015 quarterfinal reminded him of Sri Lankan batting great Aravinda de Silva . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " Throughout his excellent innings , I was reminded of the discipline displayed by Aravinda de Silva in the 1996 World Cup final , " Chappell wrote in a column for a website . " Aravinda scored a century of class and determination to help his team win the trophy , and although he denied himself any expansive shots , he still scored at a run rate near 90. " " It was one of the great innings of self-restraint played by a batsman who could be extravagant , bordering on reckless at times , " he said of the Indian right-hander . The 71-year-old praised opening batsman Rohit for playing a disciplined innings and not hitting a careless uppish shot during his stay at the crease that so often brings one of his promising innings to a premature halt . " Rohit was every bit disciplined , and mostly denied himself the signature lofted shots into the stands or the careless uppish shot through the infield that so often bring one of his promising innings to a premature halt , " Ian said . Ian , who had played 75 Tests and 16 one-day-internationals ( ODI ) for Australia , also came up in appreciation for Suresh Raina for playing a supportive role at the Melbourne Cricket Ground ( MCG ) . " As much as Rohit was the star and Suresh Raina was good who played a strong supporting role , " he said . He also heaped praise on Indian bowling attack which took 70 wickets in seven consecutive World Cup games to silence critics after a disastrous Test and ODI Tri-Series Down Under . " Six weeks ago you would n't have dreamed the Indians would claim all 70 wickets in their first seven World Cup matches. " " Nevertheless , that 's exactly what the bowlers have achieved , and it 's a credit to their persistence and resilience that they have been able to click into gear when it has really mattered , " he said . Indian 's sparkling fielding effort in the mega event has also impressed the legend . " The final component in India 's World Cup resurgence has been the fielding. It was athletic and safe , with the occasional brilliant intercept at the MCG. " " It helps if all the chances created are accepted , and this also helps to build the confidence of the bowlers , " Ian concluded . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
