World Cup 2015 : Sachin Tendulkar warns India against complacency The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 17 , 2015 , 09.47PM IST Tendulkar cautioned Indian batsmen against picking out Imran Tahir and going after him. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Sachin Tendulkar has cautioned the Indian cricket team to guard against complacency ahead of its World Cup game against South Africa , saying the Proteas are a far better fielding unit than Pakistan . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 India started their World Cup campaign on a winning note , defeating arch-rivals Pakistan by 76 runs at the Adelaide Oval on Sunday . " It wo n't be so easy to pick singles. They ( South Africa ) are much faster , their throwing arm is more powerful and their outfielding ... they cover the area much better than Pakistan , " Tendulkar told 'Headlines Today' . Considering their sharp fielding , Tendulkar said India need to put up a strong opening partnership and have to be careful while taking quick singles . Defending champions India clash with one of tournament favourites South Africa in their second game in Melbourne on Sunday . The former India captain asked the team to watch out for Proteas pace spearhead Steyn . " Without any doubt he 's their strike bowler. He 's bowled unbelievably well . " You ca n't pre-decide how to play Steyn , he could also have a bad day , you have to decide in the moment but you have to respect Steyn , you need to be watchful upfront but take your opportunities , " Tendulkar , who has played in a record six World Cups , said . Tendulkar backed India opener Rohit Sharma to perform after his failure in their win against Pakistan and said opening will be the key for the Men in Blue in their next game against South Africa. He was also not worried about skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's form with the bat . Sharma managed just 15 runs in India 's 76-run win over the arch-rivals at the Adelaide Oval yesterday , but Tendulkar urged people not to put pressure on the batsman . " Do n't put pressure on Rohit , we should not put doubt in a player 's mind. Rohit does n't need to worry. Next time he will get it right , " Tendulkar said . Tendulkar advised the Indian team to go step by step and not to think of quarterfinals now. ( AP Photo ) Regarding the captain , he said , " Dhoni 's form does n't worry me...there can be no perfect game. The dressing room must have thought we will get 320 + runs. 300 was a fighting total , if Pakistan had played better , it could have been close as 275-300 is a normal total now. " Tendulkar also showed faith in the team and said it can match the best in the world . " India needs to go step-by-step and do n't think about just the quarters but take it match by match . " We can match the likes of Australia , South Africa. We can play even better than the way we played Pakistan. Our batting can do even better and our bowling needs to continue same way. The series in Australia will help us... playing against the top sides makes your game better. " Tendulkar said he would favour to the same playing eleven who beat Pakistan to be fielded against South Africa also . " I will stick to the same batting order and back our batting. The guys have started well , do not chop in too many changes , " he said . Asked if Ajinkya Rahane should be brought at number four ahead of Suresh Raina if India lose a couple of wickets early . " I would possibly look to do that if we lose a couple of early wickets. I would want to have Raina after 20th over or so. I would not want to see him in first four overs there. I would back Rahane there . " I feel Raina is most dangerous in latter stages , post 20th over or so. He has got amazing shots and Rahane has temperament. If you have lost a couple of early wicket , then Rahane would play out those important overs and make sure that he lays solid foundation , " said Tendulkar . Tendulkar also cautioned Indian batsmen against picking out spinner Imran Tahir and going after him . " I do not think we should target any particular bowler as such before the game started. In your planning you definitely say that which are the areas we can attack and gradually start putting pressure on those areas. When you start taking things for granted , that 's where the red flag is , you might end up losing wicket. " He said the Indian bowlers will have to bowl really against top class batsmen like Hashim Amla and AB de Villiers . " South Africa has amazing batsmen , I am a huge fan of Hashim Amla along with A B de Villiers. Hashim is focused on to his game and there is no fuss around his batting , no drama , he comes he scores his runs , he gives his 100 % and goes back to the dressing room. I have always admired him . " AB is undoubtedly talented , very innovative and T20 has also taken his batting in a different level. He is definitely one of the top batsmen in the world. I do not think there is any weakness in him. He is a complete batsman according to me , " Tendulkar said about de Villiers . Asked if the result of the India vs South Africa match would be decided by who bats better as both teams can score more than 300-run total , Tendulkar said , " They both can score 300 runs but I would not start the game thinking that I have to score 320 plus. Normally , you start the game and then gradually keep changing the gears . " ... if we have to do well in this tournament , we have to out-bat the opposition... so basically if you can go out and give your best in batting and score that extra run , " he said . Tendulkar advised the Indian team to go step by step and not to think of quarterfinals now . " I am the last person possibly to say everything has done now and think about quarterfinals. You need to go step by step , just about reaching quarterfinals you have to end well. Forget about all these things , just go match by match , look to win each and every match that you play. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
