Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Skipper Angelo Mathews smashed 51 off 21 balls at the end , slamming four sixes in a row off spinner Matt Machan before being caught next ball on the mid-wicket fence . Sri Lanka , who were 216 for one at one stage , lost eight wickets for 147 runs as the later batsmen attacked the inexperienced Scotland attack . Dilshan and Sangakkara came together in the sixth over after Lahiru Thirimanne had been snapped up in the slips off Alasdair Evans for a scratchy four off 20 deliveries . Scotland had to wait till the 35th over for their next success as the pair toyed with the bowling in good batting conditions . Sangakkara is the leading scorer in the tournament with 496 runs from six games , while Dilshan is second with 395 runs . Both batsmen reached their centuries off successive balls from Kyle Coetzer in the 34th over , Dilshan taking a single to record his second hundred in the tournament before Sangakkara followed next ball . Sangakkara , who plans to leave one-day cricket after the World Cup , had made 105 not out against Bangladesh , an unbeaten 117 against England and 104 against Australia . The prolific 37-year-old surpassed six players who had scored three ODI centuries in a row . They were Zaheer Abbas and Saeed Anwar of Pakistan , the South African trio of Herschelle Gibbs , AB de Villiers and Quinton de Kock , and Ross Taylor of New Zealand . Dilshan , aged 38 , followed his unbeaten 161 against Bangladesh with his fourth World Cup century before he holed out in the deep off seamer Josh Davey . Davey then struck two huge blows soon after , getting rid of Mahela Jayawardene and Sangakkara off successive balls as Sri Lanka slipped from 216 for one to 244 for four . Jayawardene , 37 , who will also retire after the World Cup having already quit Test cricket , made two when he was caught at mid-off by Calum MacLeod . Sangakkara edged the next delivery to the wicket-keeper , sparking wild celebrations among the Scottish supporters in the stands . The match gives Sri Lanka a chance to fine-tune preparations for next week 's quarter-finals for which they have already qualified . Scotland are out of the race , having lost all their four matches so far . Sri Lanka are beset with injuries , with seamer Dhammika Prasad ruled out of the tournament before it started and Jeevan Mendis , Dimuth Karunaratne and Dinesh Chandimal sidelined during it . Veteran left-arm spinner Rangana Herath is yet to recover from a finger injury and missed the match. Fast bowler Dushmantha Chameera and batsman Kusal Perera made their World Cup debuts for Sri Lanka . Scotland made three changes from their previous game , bringing in Freddie Coleman , Rob Taylor and Michael Leask in place of Majid Haq , Hamish Gardiner and Iain Wardlaw . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
