World Cup 2015 : Sarfraz elated at equalling Gilchrist record The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 8 , 2015 , 11.56AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Recalled Pakistan wicketkeeper-batsman Sarfraz Ahmed said Sunday he was excited at being bracketed with Australia great Adam Gilchrist after equalling the record for most catches behind the stumps in a one-day international innings . The 27-year-old , who did not feature in Pakistan 's first four matches of the World Cup , marked his debut at this tournament in style with a run-a-ball 49 before holding six catches in Pakistan 's 29-run Pool B victory over South Africa in Auckland on Saturday that gave his side a chance of a quarterfinal spot . " It 's a great honour , " Ahmed said. " I did n't know about the record but after the match someone told me that I have equalled Gilchrist 's record and that made me proud. " Gilchrist became the first of seven keepers to take six catches behind the stumps when he achieved the feat against South Africa at Cape Town in 2000 . He repeated the feat four times , while Alec Stewart ( England ) , Mark Boucher ( South Africa ) , Matt Prior ( England ) , Jos Buttler ( England ) , Matthew Cross ( Scotland ) and now Sarfraz have all since equalled the now retired Australian 's achievenment . Ahmed said his catch to dismiss South African master blaster AB de Villiers was the most important of all his dismissals on Saturday . " AB is the most destructive batsman of all and he was threatening to take the game away , " said Ahmed of the South Africa skipper , who smashed a 58-ball 77 with five sixes and seven boundaries . But once de Villiers was caught behind off paceman Sohail Khan , Pakistan sealed the match by defending a revised 232-run target after rain twice interrupted their innings . The left-arm pace trio of Rahat Ali ( three for 40 ) , Wahab Riaz ( three for 45 ) and Mohammad Irfan ( three for 52 ) reduced the Proteas to 202 all out . Earlier , opening batsman Ahmed launched Pakistan 's innings in style before running himself out . Ahmed said the key to his impressive knock was that he batted with a plan . " The coach ( Waqar Younis ) and captain ( Misbah-ul-Haq ) told me to bat in my style and after the first ball I realised that I have to play out of my crease to negate the swing and that worked for me , " said Ahmed . " I did n't look at who was bowling because South Africa have great bolwers. I only saw the ball and hit through the line and I am happy to score valuable runs. " The top four from each of the two pools of seven will qualify for the last eight . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
