Indians set to outnumber Aussies at SCG ; Clarke , Warner call for 'support' The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 23 , 2015 , 02.02PM IST Australia skipper Michael Clarke and teammate David Warner sent out identical tweets , saying : " I call on all Australian cricket lovers to paint the SCG gold on Thursday. We need your support. # goldout " Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : India fans are likely to outnumber their Australian counterparts when the two teams clash in the World Cup semifinal in Sydney on Thursday -- much to the annoyance of the home captain . Full Coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Australia skipper Michael Clarke and teammate David Warner sent out identical tweets , saying : " I call on all Australian cricket lovers to paint the SCG gold on Thursday. We need your support. # goldout " The hashtag , referring to the Australian team colours , has ironically caught the fancy of more Indian Twitter users than Australian . Organizers believe that 70 percent of tickets at the sold-out 42,000-capacity Sydney Cricket Ground have been bought by by India fans , threatening to create an environment reminiscent of the frenzied atmosphere of Eden Gardens in Kolkata . If the pitch suits spinners , as has been the case at the SCG in the past , co-hosts Australia may well feel as though they have been kicked out of their own party . Kartik Ayyalasomayajula , one of the founders of the Swami Army -- India 's version of England 's Barmy Army supporters group -- forecast the Australian team would be in for a hard time from fans on Thursday . " It will be very loud , very intimidating , " Kartik told the Sydney-based Daily Telegraph newspaper. " It will feel like an away game for them . " The drummers will be going around the ground and people will be dancing , singing and cheering every run India score , every wicket they take . " People will be going nuts. " Kartik , a Melbourne-based IT professional , said the tweets by Clarke and Warner pleading for Australian support at the match indicated how much the home team were worried . " I think those tweets definitely say they 're going to be outnumbered , " he said . " I would have thought that would be a standard expectation for the Aussie fans without their heroes going on Twitter to plead with them . " They 're really scraping the barrel there. I think it 's a message in itself . " India versus Australia in a World Cup semifinal , it does n't get much bigger than that. " Kartik said those Australians who turned up at the SCG on Thursday would get an idea of what cricket means in South Asia . " This country wo n't have seen this level of support or atmosphere for cricket games , " he said . " You have to go to the sub-continent to get that kind of feel , so we are effectively bringing that atmosphere to Sydney. It 's going to be a spectacle. " Kartik said fans were still looking for tickets that were unavailable for love or money as they looked to cheer on the defending champions . " It 's pretty much name your price kind of thing , " he said. " It 's the hottest ticket in town at the moment. " India , who won the 2011 World Cup in South Asia , defeated Ricky Ponting 's Australia in the quarterfinals in Ahmedabad . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
