World Cup 2015 : Scotland bank on 'insider ' Collingwood for key clash The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 23 , 2015 , 10.03AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : England are not just playing a game on Monday , it 's about their pride and survival in the World Cup. Scotland is an associate nation that the Englishmen would have preferred to avoid at this stage -- many of Preston Mommsen 's boys play in the County circuit and their biggest motivation is to put it across England . Moreover , there 's a man in the Scottish corner that can provide them with all the information that they need to get England on the mat. Not too long ago , Paul Collingwood was the England captain and now he is one of the consultants in the Scottish team. Collingwood has been in this situation before , knows how the England players react under pressure , and he has already started playing his mind games. " I ca n't remember seeing such a one-sided game as England 's eight-wicket defeat to New Zealand. There have been plenty of occasions where we 've been pummeled in the past , but I 've never seen a game like it in the World Cup , " Collingwood said . For Collingwood , there 's of course an emotional connect to this game , but he is putting on the hat of the professional. " Of course , it will be an emotionally strange day for me , having been involved in England for so long and playing with a lot of the players in the side. But I 'm 100 % behind trying to get Scotland to get this win , " the former captain said. Collingwood is known to be a good tactician and the Scottish captain Mommsen stressed how he is helping the team with the necessary inputs . " He 's been pretty valuable with his inputs and the insight he 's given us into the England players. He 's played with a lot of these guys , got a fair bit of knowledge and he 's shared that with the group. We take our preparation seriously in terms of our analysis and hopefully that gets us in a good position against England , " Mommsen said . The England team management has its own set of problems and they wanted to underplay the Collingwood factor as much as possible. Ian Bell , one of the key England batsmen referred to his former captain as a " good coach and good guy , " but he added that there are not too many secrets in world cricket these days. There 's so much footage on everyone -I do n't think there 's too much element of surprise. You know people 's strengths and weaknesses inside out , " Bell said . But Bell knows the competitive nature of Collingwood and how he would try to motivate Scotland to win this one. So he did n't forget to add that he wants " to put one over on Colly " on Monday and get the England campaign back on track . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
