World Cup 2015 : Shane Warne still spinning headlines The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 23 , 2015 , 09.36AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : From blokeish TV commentary to controversial jibes at the present day Australian team to flogging boxer shorts on his Instagram account , it 's hard to ignore Shane Warne at the World Cup . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The master leg-spinner , who retired from international cricket in 2007 with over 1,000 wickets in Tests and one-day internationals , is rarely far from the headlines . The 45-year-old has been at the centre of almost daily criticism of the Australian team , accusing officials of trying to " break " close friend , and national captain , Michael Clarke by rushing him back from his long-standing injury . Coach Darren Lehmann , a teammate of Warne 's when Australia won the 1999 World Cup , described the comments as " absolute rubbish " . Clarke , however , raced to the defence of his friend. " I have always supported Warney , he 's a big supporter of mine and is a good friend , " said Clarke , whose planned return to the team was delayed when Saturday 's game against Bangladesh in Brisbane was washed out . " I think Shane might have been taken out of context. I think what he was trying to say was the medical staff have pushed me to the limit , which is a great thing. " Despite Clarke attempting to play a forward defensive stroke for the sake of team unity , Warne was soon back on the attack . Over the weekend , as the four-time champions kicked their heels before their next match against New Zealand in Auckland on Saturday , Warne accused Lehmann of trying to usurp the authority of the captain . He suggested it was Lehmann who had decided when Australia declared against India in the Boxing Day Test in Melbourne , when Steve Smith was standing in for Clarke . " He 's got to be a little bit careful -- he 's got to stop walking out on the MCG and declaring , " Warne said on radio station 2GB . " He 's got to remember that that 's the captain 's job and not the coach 's job. " But Smith denied that Lehmann had too much influence and insisted he had decided when to declare , not the coach . " I think 'Boof ' ( Lehmann ) was sitting on the sideline where he tends to sit to watch the match , " Smith said . " I was up the top trying to call the guys in but they could n't see me. I think he said 'look up there , he 's calling you in'. I think they showed him on the TV doing it but I was up the top calling them in -- it was me. " Cricket Australia , the game 's governing body in the country , has refused to get dragged into the row , attributing the controversies to Warne 's outspoken nature . When he 's not acting as an ad-hoc team selector at the six-week tournament , Warne is making a name for himself up in the TV commentary booth with off-the-cuff , blokeish asides . " He looks like he 's swallowed a couple of wheelie bins , " was Warne 's description of a former adversary who is not as slender as he once was in his playing days . Meanwhile , on everyday things to dislike : " Third new ball...queuing...holding hands.. " The World Cup has also provided Warne with the chance to market his new range of black , boxer shorts with the word SPINNERS emblazoned on the waistband . " Bad boy , " is his confident description of his branded underwear. Lehmann , Smith and Cricket Australia may be thinking the same about Warne . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
