World Cup 2015 : Team should n't be overburdened with additional practice , says Sachin Tendulkar The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 23 , 2015 , 12.26PM IST Sachin Tendulkar says the introduction of T20 and the new fielding restrictions have instilled a self belief that even an asking rate of nine or more can be chased down. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 PERTH : Indian cricket team 's sudden breaks from training session may have raised a few eyebrows but Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's theory got firm backing from Sachin Tendulkar , who feels that an ideal balance needs to be struck between " staying fresh and not over burdening with additional practice " . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Tendulkar , who was in Melbourne on Sunday , to watch the India versus South Africa as ICC 's World Cup 'Brand Ambassador ' aired his views on key to success in the mega event . " To have same successful combination going all the way is going to be key , " Tendulkar was quoted as saying in an audio released in ICC 's official Media Zone . While Dhoni has always wanted a proper balance between training and recovery , Tendulkar also spoke in the same vein . " One needs to find that balance between staying fresh and not over-burdening yourself with additional practice sessions. You just need to find that right balance. Obviously , if somebody is not playing well , then he needs to go out and hit as many balls as possible or bowl as many deliveries possible. But if everything is going well , it is important to save that energy and one peak at the right time , " Tendulkar 's advice for title contenders seem to echo Dhoni 's sentiments . Tendulkar said that introduction of T20 and the new fielding restrictions have instilled a self belief that even an asking rate of nine or more can be chased down . " There are two reasons that we are getting so many high-scoring games. Firstly , the rule-change. There is one fielder less outside the circle. That makes a huge difference. The game opens up completely. It becomes difficult for bowlers to find those areas to bowl , as one less fielder forces you to bowl differently , " Tendulkar explained . " Another reason is the introduction of T20 which allowed batsmen to play more risky and innovative shots. The guys have practised a lot in the nets. How many times would you have seen in the 80 's or 90 's that batsmen playing reverse sweep to fast bowlers which happens in today 's cricket ? " If they have to chase eight runs an over , it 's not beyond reach ( anymore ) . In T20 's , the asking rate is 9 runs per over or more than that. The players have that mental set-up and belief that we can chase 9 runs per over. " Tendulkar said that he is honoured to be the 'Brand Ambassador ' of the World Cup for the second time in a row . " I would like to thank ICC as a 'Brand Ambassador ' of 2011 and 2015 World Cup. I remember I was a 14-year-old ballboy sitting outside the dressing room during the 1987 World Cup. From there to becoming the 'Brand Ambassador ' of 2015 is a special journey. I am excited. " Having played in six editions of the World Cup , it is a new experience for Tendulkar to watch the event from the MCG Hospitality Box . " I am watching the World Cup from the stands and this is a new experience. It is fantastic and something that I have experienced but not sitting in the stands. I was then on other side of the fence. " Tendulkar said that it has been an exciting tournament so far . " It 's been an exciting tournament so far. We have seen a couple of surprises , teams have played competitive cricket , good standard and that 's what guys want to witness. There will be fantastic cricket in days to come as tournament progresses , " he said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
