World Cup 2015 : Similar looks , dissimilar roles The author has posted comments on this article Prasad Ramasubramanian , TNN | Mar 14 , 2015 , 09.15AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 When Pakistan 's Yasir Shah took the field in the opener against India in Adelaide last month , a group of Pakistani supporters welcomed the 28-year-old with a placard which read 'Please welcome sub-continent 's Lionel Messi ! ' Another group of fans went to the extent of labelling him 'The best footballer in the world who plays cricket for Pakistan'. Yasir is among the chosen band of cricketers who have risen in popularity charts thanks to their uncanny resemblance to celebrities from other sporting disciplines and walks of life . TOI takes a look at some other cricketers in the ongoing edition of the World Cup who look like long-lost cousins of popular personalities.. . DALE STEYN & DANIEL CRAIG While one pulls off the role of the world 's most famous secret agent on-screen with aplomb , the other is busy setting the field ablaze with his pace and can be called the 'James Bond of fast bowling'. When TOI once asked Steyn whom he resembled , he remarked , " I am often compared to Daniel Craig and Francessco Totti , which I find quite flattering. " AARON FINCH & CHRIS PRATT Aaron Finch is one of the most destructive openers in world cricket today , and an explosive pair with David Warner at the top for Australia. The burly righthander may be scoring those crucial runs at the top for his team , but off the field , Finch 's resemblance to Chris Pratt , a popular American actor , is one of the talking points. Pratt has starred in blockbuster films such as Guardians of the Galaxy and The Lego Movie . STEVE FINN & RYAN MCPARTLIN Steve Finn may be enduring a forgetful World Cup , but there is no denying that the tall English pacer is a mirror-image of American actor Ryan McPartlin who essayed the role of Devon 'Captain Awesome ' Woodcomb on the TV show Chuck. Whilst Finn 's reputation may have taken a beating following his team 's debacle Down Under , the same ca n't be said about McPartlin who retains a premier position on the popularity charts . JAMES ANDERSON & DAVID WALTON Yet another English cricketer whose looks remind you of an American actor. Anderson looks a lot like David Walton , the American actor who has been part of numerous comedy series such as About A Boy , Cracking Up , Perfect Couples among others on NBC . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
