World Cup 2015 : Simmons , Russell lead Windies onslaught against Pakistan The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 21 , 2015 , 08.00AM IST West Indies batsman Lendl Simmons , right , is congratulated by teammate Andre Russell after scoring 50 runs during their World Cup match against Pakistan. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : A late batting onslaught led by Lendl Simmons and Andre Russell took the West Indies to 310/6 batting first against Pakistan in their crucial World Cup Pool B match in Christchurch on Saturday . Scorecard Simmons , who smacked a century in the West Indies first-up loss to Ireland , continued his commanding form with the bat , although this time he did get a life on 45 . It was one of four dropped catches by Pakistan as the West Indies , who relied heavily on Simmons and Darren Sammy for runs against Ireland , this time spread the workload . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Denesh Ramdin contributed 51 , Darren Bravo made 49 , before retiring hurt , and Russell was unbeaten on 42 with knocks of 38 from Marlon Samuels and 30 from Sammy . Both sides are looking for their first win in the tournament after Pakistan also lost their first game , beaten by old foes India . Simmons and Sammy put on 65 for the fifth wicket as the West Indies stepped up the run rate in the closing overs from being 194-4 when Ramdin was removed in the 40th . With Sammy 's dismissal , Russell provided late fireworks with three fours and four sixes in his 42 off 17 deliveries . Simmons faced 46 balls and hit four fours and two sixes before being run out on the last ball of the innings . The final 10 overs produced 115 runs with 51 of them in the brief 17-ball partnership between Simmons and Russell at the end . Bravo was unfortunate not to reach what would have been his 17th ODI half-century when he was forced to retire hurt with a pulled hamstring . Until then , it had been an innings filled with drama for the 26-year-old left-hander . He successfully appealed a caught behind decision on 14 , required medical treatment on 30 when hit on the head by a Younis Khan throw going for a quick single and was dropped by Shahid Afridi on 46 . Afridi was guilty of two dropped catches , giving Samuels a let off on 29 . Mohammad Irfan had Dwayne Smith dropped on 12 by Nasir Jamshed at third man , although that was a short-lived disappointment for Irfan as the batsmen scampered through for an unlikely single . With his next delivery , again short , Chris Gayle was unable to control an attempted hook and Wahab Riaz took the catch at long leg . Gayle 's four off 14 deliveries continued an extended run of low scores. The West Indies icon with the " master-blaster " reputation has averaged a mere 14.42 over 19 innings in the 20 months since his last century . Simmons had a life on 45 when Irfan spilled a catch after getting both hands to the ball . For Pakistan , Haris Sohail was the most successful bowler although his two wickets came at an expensive 62 runs . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
