World Cup 2015 : 'Sixer Shaiman ' blasts into record books The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 25 , 2015 , 01.36PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE ( Australia ) : By day , he works in shipping in Dubai 's flourishing cargo industry. At nights and weekends in the Gulf , and now at the famed Gabba in Brisbane , he 's racking up the boundaries in record style . Shaiman Anwar became the first United Arab Emirates player to hit a World Cup century on Wednesday as his team recovered from a perilous 131 for six against Ireland to make 278 for nine . Anwar , a 35-year-old Pakistani native , bludgeoned 10 fours and a six in his ton which came off 79 balls before he was out for 106 , having faced 83 deliveries . He had already announced his arrival at the World Cup with a battling 67 in his team 's four-wicket loss to Zimbabwe in Nelson last week . And on Wednesday , the man known as " Sixer Shaiman " in the Gulf leagues , in honour of his liking for big hits , went to his century in style . He sparred with Kevin O'Brien , who made the fastest World Cup century four years ago in India , and with the Irish bowler on the ropes , hit the runs that took him to his landmark . " I think it was my best innings -- I wanted to put a maximum on the board , to put pressure on Ireland , " said Anwar . " I was always comfortable , and trusted myself when I was in. It is a big game for me. " Anwar was born in Sialkot in 1979 and played club cricket for his native city and then Servis Industries . But unable to carve out a full-time career in the game in Pakistan , Anwar followed thousands of his compatriots to the tax-free haven of Dubai in 2007 , finding work in the shipping business before qualifying to play for the UAE in 2009 . He has been a regular ever since in a team which relies mostly on expat talent from South Asia , and where all the players juggle their playing careers with a variety of day jobs . In the 2011-13 World Cricket League , a tournament reserved for the leading non-Test playing nations , he scored 625 runs from 14 matches , the most by any player . He only made his one-day international debut in February 2014 against Scotland in the final of the World Cup qualifiers , the last-chance event in New Zealand to secure places at the ongoing showpiece tournament . His international Twenty20 debut followed against the Netherlands at the World Twenty20 in March 2014 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
