World Cup 2015 : Smith backs Aussie coach Lehmann in Warne row The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 22 , 2015 , 02.15PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE : Australia 's Steven Smith has firmly backed national coach Darren Lehmann following some harsh criticism from leg-spinning great Shane Warne . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Warne attacked former teammate Lehmann on Sydney radio on Saturday , saying the Australian coach had too much say over onfield matters . He even suggested Lehmann had decided when Australia declared against India in the Boxing Day Test , when Smith was standing in for injured skipper Michael Clarke . " He 's got to be a little bit careful -- he 's got to stop walking out on the MCG and declaring , " Warne said on radio station 2GB . " He 's got to remember that that 's the captain 's job and not the coach 's job. " But Smith denied that Lehmann had too much influence and insisted he had decided when to declare , not the coach . " I think Boof ( Lehmann ) was sitting on the sideline where he tends to sit to watch the match , " Smith said . " I was up the top trying to call the guys in but they could n't see me. I think he said 'look up there , he 's calling you in' . " I think they showed him on the TV doing it but I was up the top calling them in -- it was me. " Smith said the belief that Lehmann had too much power was only coming from outside the Australian dressing room . " Everyone that was playing that Test match knew what was going on , knew that I made the declaration , " he said . " Look I think Boof 's done a terrific job around the team as coach , done a great job of getting the players together -- we 're in a good place . " But it 's exclusively up to the captain what goes on out there ( on the field ) . The captain 's the one that runs the ship. " Smith said Australia 's World Cup wash-out against Bangladesh at the Gabba on Saturday would not affect the team 's preparation for their crucial match against New Zealand in Auckland next weekend . " We 'll be fine , we 've been playing a lot of cricket and a day off 's probably not the worst thing , " he said . " We 've prepared well throughout the tournament and we 've got a few days training before we go there so we 'll be fine. " He said he had been impressed by New Zealand 's play during their rout of England on Friday , a win which gave the Black Caps a third successive win . " I saw bits and pieces of the match. I thought they bowled really well , " Smith said . " I do n't think England played all that well at the same time , but New Zealand are a tough opposition and they play very good cricket in their own backyard . " We 're going to have to play at the top of our game to beat them. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
