World Cup 2015 : South Africa are three games away from lifting trophy , says De Villiers The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Mar 11 , 2015 , 05.34PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 WELLINGTON : Even after losing their last ICC World Cup 2015 Pool B game against Pakistan , South African skipper AB de Villiers on Wednesday said they are only three games away from lifting the elusive trophy . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " I 100 percent believe we are the best team in the tournament here. Those two losses in the group stage did hurt us a bit but we are past that now. We know we are very close... three games away from taking that World Cup home , " de Villiers said in an interview . " The most important game is tomorrow but we know we are not far off so it 's important to be positive and still believe we are the best. " The Proteas , in their last group encounter , will meet the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) here on Thursday . The skipper said he was sure his side can chase down any score and he was quite confident of the batting line-up which has not quite fired in the last two matches . " It 's not an issue. I believe we can chase down any total , We 've done it in the last year a few times under pressure. We did n't get it right the last couple of chases and that 's alright. " " I am still confident in the batting unit. I believe there are a few guys due for big runs and it 's going to happen soon at the right time , " he said . South Africa 's immediate focus , though , is the balance of the team. Their preference for seven specialist batsmen has left them making up a fifth bowler from part-timers but playing five front-line bowlers will leave a batsman short which again can be a cause for concern . " That 's the difficult decision most teams have to make at this World Cup - an extra batter or an extra bowler , " the 31-year-old pointed out . " The last few games we have gone for the extra batter , against India we went for the extra bowler. Both times we lost. So it 's a difficult one. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
