World Cup 2015 : South Africa break the jinx , with spin The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 19 , 2015 , 01.24PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : South Africa have shed the choker 's tag , at least for a week. And there 's a new claimant to it - Sri Lanka . Thousands of Lankan fans who had made SCG the 'home ground ' for Angelo Mathew 's boys on Wednesday , could n't believe what they were seeing. They held their heads in hands as Lanka 's famed batting lineup struggled against two spinners - Imran Tahir and JP Duminy -who are generally marked by sub-continental sides as the weak links in the South African attack . Duminy ( 3-29 ) , a part-time off-spinner , even walked away with a hat-trick as Lanka capitulated for 133 in 37.2 overs. It was a walk in the park for the South Africans thereafter , as they notched up their first-ever win in the knockout stage of the World Cup. Their win pulled the curtains down on the careers of Mahela Jayawardene and Kumar Sangakkara. Sanga will retire from Tests after the India series at home in August , but Sydney saw the end of a great chapter of Sri Lankan cricket . When Lankan captain Angelo Mathews chose to bat , there was a feeling around the SCG that a total of 250 would put extreme pressure on South Africa. But South Africa 's d opening attack of b Dale Steyn and l Kyle Abbott was absolutely brilliant . They bowled with pace , there was not a single a loose ball on offer and the early wickets kept coming. Both the openers Kushal Perera and o Tillakaratne Dilshan edged deliveries outside the p off-stump and it was downhill straight away for Sri Lanka . There was Sangakkara ( 45 off 96 balls ) in the middle , trying to stem the rot. But even he was tied down and his only partnership of note was with Lahiru Thirimanne ( 41 ) . The two added 65 for the third wicket and it seemed that the danger period had been averted , but leggie Tahir ( 4-26 ) removed Thirimanne. The ball stopped on the lefthander a little bit and he played it back to Tahir. That was the beginning of the end . A lot was riding on the Jayawardene-Sangakkara partnership. They had pulled Lanka out of trouble many times in the past , but not on Wednesday. Jayawardene looked completely out of touch - he survived a close leg-before shout before mistiming a pull off Tahir to give a catch at short mid-on. The Lankans lost the plot after that. It was important to settle down and get to a score of around 220. But the Lankans seemed kept taking their chances and made Duminy and Tahir look unplayable . Mathews perished to a mistimed flick off Duminy on the last ball before the second drinks break. Once the South African again got the ball in the 35th , he removed Nuwan Kulasekara and new boy Kaushal with deliveries that did n't turn to complete a hat-trick that left SCG stunned . Sangakkara was still standing there , and he knew there was no option but to go for the shots now. He connected a couple but then a top edge went straight to deep third-man and it was all over for the genius. When the South Africans came back for the chase , Quinton de Kock ( 78 not out ) , who has struggled in this tournament , got going and the Proteas are now off to Auckland where they will wait the winners of New Zealand vs West Indies match . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
