World Cup 2015 : South Africa bring in Horn to fix their own minds The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 17 , 2015 , 10.38AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : There 's history scattered in every nook-and-corner of the Sydney Cricket Ground a piece of it belongs to South Africa as well. It was 23 years ago at this venue when the infamous South African World Cup jinx started. They looked well on course in the semis against England , needing 22 off 13 , when rain came to stop play. After the restart , the target , according to the then prevalent rule , became 22 off one ball . South Africa , obviously , did n't win that one and have never made the final of the World Cup. It 's back to the SCG again in the knock-out stage of the World Cup and even as rain keeps coming and going , the Proteas are getting ready to exorcise the ghost of 1992 . " Allan Donald ( the bowling coach ) played in that game.There is nothing we can do about what happened in the past. All our energies are focussed on what we need to do , leading into this game. When we get there on Wednesday , we need to make sure that we have prepared really well , which we are in the process of doing , " Russell Domingo , the South African coach , said ahead of an afternoon practice session . But the mind keeps playing games. Since that 1992 loss , the South Africans have faltered at crucial stages of the World Cup and the 'choker 's ' tag refuses to go. " Choking ? Choking , there you go. Well , it took you guys four minutes to bring that up , " Domingo laughed , but he acknowledged that it 's an issue they are looking to address . To win this battle of the mind , the South Africans have flown in famous explorer and motivational speaker Mike Horn. He had sessions with the German World Cup winning football team , as also the Kolkata Knight Riders en route to their last IPL triumph. " Horn has done a lot scarier things in the world than facing Steyn or Morkel. He has done some extreme things and he will put it all in perspective for us over the next couple of days - about what pressure and fear are like and about being out of the comfort zone. He has been in these situations with real life experiences , not just facing a cricket ball. And it is great to have him around , " Domingo said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
