READ ALSO : Duminy claims second hat-trick of 2015 World Cup South Africa , so often labelled World Cup 'chokers ' , completed an emphatic win by finishing on 134 for one with 32 overs to spare . Quinton de Kock , who had managed just 53 runs in six previous innings this World Cup , was 78 not out after hitting the winning boundary -- his 12th four -- off paceman Lasith Malinga . Faf du Plessis was unbeaten on 21. Victory meant the Proteas had , after several heartbreaking reverses that started at the SCG with a rain-affected semifinal loss to England in 1992 , finally won a knockout match at the World Cup . They will face the winners of Saturday 's match between New Zealand and the West Indies in an Auckland semifinal on March 24 . South Africa 's win meant there was no fairytale farewell for Sri Lanka batting greats Kumar Sangakkara and Mahela Jayawardene , for whom this was their last one-day international before retirement . The pair , key members of the Sri Lanka side that lost the 2007 and 2011 World Cup finals , had been desperate to finish with a flourish . South Africa 's Jean-Paul Duminy celebrates after taking a hat-trick against Sri Lanka in the World Cup quarterfinal at the Sydney Cricket Ground. ( Reuters Photo ) But Sangakkara 's record-breaking run of four successive ODI hundreds finally came to an end although the left-hander , who plans to continue in Test cricket , top-scored with 45 . Jayawardene , who has already bowed out of the five-day format , could only manage four on Wednesday . Sangakkara and fellow left-hander Lahiru Thirimanne ( 41 ) put on 65 for the third wicket But otherwise there was little batting resistance on a good pitch , with Sri Lanka -- the 1996 World Cup winners -- losing four wickets for two runs in nine balls as they slumped to 116 for eight . South Africa 's bowlers , often overshadowed in ODI cricket by their more celebrated batsmen , dominated Sri Lanka from the start . Kusal Perera , promoted to open the innings , fell for three when he edged Kyle Abbott and was brilliantly caught left-handed , at the second attempt , by de Kock as the wicket-keeper dived in front of first slip . Tillakaratne Dilshan was then out for a seven-ball duck , edging fast bowler Dale Steyn low to du Plessis at second slip . Thirimanne , who struck five fours , exited when he chipped an easy return catch to man-of-the-match Tahir . The Pakistan-born spinner then had Jayawardene mistiming a pull to short mid-wicket . Sri Lanka , the reigning World Twenty20 champions , were now 81 for four in the 24th over . There was no recovery , with Duminy dismissing Sri Lanka captain Angelo Mathews -- one of several batsmen who contributed to their own dismissal with a poor shot -- and then , at the start of his next over , recording the ninth World Cup hat-trick . Duminy had Nuwan Kulasekara caught behind for one and debutant Tharindu Kaushal lbw for a golden duck on his ODI debut In the midst of Duminy 's treble , Tahir removed Thisara Perera as Sri Lanka 's collapse continued . Sangakkara was caught at deep third man off fast bowler Morne Morkel for 45 off 96 balls , including just three fours , before Tahir dismissed Malinga to wrap up the innings in a mere 37.2 overs . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
