World Cup 2015 : South Africa draw from Kirsten 's India experience The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 18 , 2015 , 03.22PM IST Gary Kirsten has been roped in as a consultant for the World Cup along with former Australian batsman Michael Hussey and pace legend Allan Donald. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : The Indian cricket team sweated out at the nets on Wednesday ahead of its Sunday 's World Cup clash against South Africa , who are drawing on the deep insight of Gary Kirsten , India 's former coach , to prepare for the tie . Kirsten , who was India 's coach from 2008 to 2011 , has been roped in as a consultant for the World Cup along with former Australian batsman Michael Hussey and pace legend Allan Donald . The trio has a combined experience worth 26,845 runs and 602 wickets at the international level . The runs are what Kirsten and Hussey have scored at the international level across formats , while the wickets are Donald 's collection during his 12 years in international cricket . The three were seen keeping a hawk eye on the proceedings during South African team 's training session at the St Kilda 's Oval Junction ground . The Indians , on the other hand , had a strenuous session at the same ground after a couple of days ' rest following their morale-boosting victory over arch-rivals Pakistan . However , doubts over Bhuvneshwar Kumar 's fitness continue to be a concern for the team as the seamer looked far from convincing during the nets . Bhuvneshwar , who had suffered an ankle injury before the start of the Test series against Australia and only played the last Test in Sydney where he bowled way below his best , looked out of sorts and unfit on Wednesday . Meanwhile , Hussey , who would again be playing in the eighth edition of IPL for Chennai Super Kings , was keeping a close eye on the South African batsmen , especially the likes of JP Duminy and Quinton de Kock as they were playing the spinners at the nets . A couple of left-arm spinners were seen bowling as Duminy and De Kock , along with Hashim Amla when they were batting in the nets . One of the net bowlers of Indian origin was asked if there was any specific instruction from the coaches , he smiled and said , " I have been told to try and bowl exactly what Ravindra Jadeja bowls " . Hussey was later seen having a long chat with Duminy as he was doing some shadows to show him a few particular shots of spinners . Hussey has been roped in as a consultant , specifically for the World Cup but he wo n't be travelling with AB de Villiers and Co after the India match . " It 's been a nice experience so far. But I wo n't be travelling with the team after this match. I am with them for this match , " Hussey said . India 's best ever national coach , Kirsten was overseeing the proceedings and also giving his customary throwdowns , while Donald was keeping an eye on the bowlers with a specific drill in mind . Kirsten , in fact , arrived late yesterday after having attended the IPL auctions in Bangalore for Delhi Daredevils , a day before . Three different sets of cones were placed on three different lengths for the South African pacers. While Morne Morkel was told to hit the short of length area , Wayne Parnell was instructed to bowl a bit on the fuller side. Morkel was occasionally also instructed to bowl at Yorker length just at the base of the stumps . Meanwhile , South Africa 's fast bowler Dale Steyn missed training due to flu , but is expected to be fit for the World Cup match against India at the Melbourne Cricket Ground . The paceman bowled just seven overs in South Africa 's first warm-up match against Sri Lanka and was rested for the second game against hosts New Zealand . He was suffering from a sore throat and blocked nose during their World Cup opener against Zimbabwe , where he returned with unimpressive figures of one for 64 from nine overs . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
