World Cup 2015 : South Africa feel the choke against Sri Lanka The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 18 , 2015 , 07.54AM IST AB de Villiers got a little annoyed at the media briefing. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : The sky was closing in when the ball was thrown to Rangana Herath in the Sri Lanka nets. The left-arm spinner , crucial to Lanka 's chances in the World Cup quarterfinal against South Africa on Wednesday , bowled five deliveries , kept looking at his injured palm and then walked away. It did n't take too long for the official communication to come from the Sri Lankan camp : " Rangana is out. " Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 It 's a huge blow for Sri Lanka , who would have banked on spin to counter the power of the South African batting. With Herath 's spin , they would have fancied their chances against the Proteas. But now , it has probably tilted just a little towards the South Africans . Sachitra Senanayeke , the second spinner , is likely to play the game and it remains to be seen if he is able to exert enough pressure on the South Africans. But the Proteas , the eternal 'chokers ' of world cricket , have their own set of problems . They know well that one false step could end yet another World Cup dream. Having gone through an intense training session on Monday , the South Africans cancelled the scheduled practice on Tuesday. The match has been billed as 'the best of the four quarters ' and it 's evident that the South Africans are feeling the heat. They have lost to two other subcontinental giants - India and Pakistan - in this World Cup , and , the mind , quite clearly , is playing tricks . That 's why the team management has brought in Mike Horn , the explorer and motivational speaker , two days ahead of the match. One understands he had long sessions with the players on Tuesday . The South African 'choke ' of the last five World Cups keeps coming up and skipper AB de Villiers got a little annoyed at the media briefing. " I have n't played in all of those and I do n't want to look back.What 's important is we play the quarterfinal of the World Cup tomorrow with a fresh mind , " de Villiers said . An interesting sub-plot in this battle of equals is the constant reference to the Kumar Sangakkara vs de Villiers match-up. Both are in the form of their lives , yet one of them will return home on Wednesday. Even the Sri Lankan prime minister has told the team to be careful of de Villiers . " I hope you do n't take it in the wrong way , but I could n't care less about him or me. I just want to win the game tomorrow. If it 's our No. 11 batsman who wins us the game , so be it.But I just want to find a way to win , " de Villiers said . Easier said than done , given the batting prowess of Sri Lanka and Lasith Malinga 's return to form. But one thing is clear - not an inch will be ceded when the ball starts rolling at the SCG on Wednesday , throwing the knockout stage open . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
