World Cup 2015 : South Africa restrict Pakistan to 222 The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 7 , 2015 , 11.40AM IST Pakistan 's Misbah-ul-Haq watches as AB de Villiers of South Africa bowls during their Cricket World Cup match in Auckland. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Tight South African bowling and rain interruptions restricted Pakistan to 222 in 46.4 overs in their crucial World Cup Pool B match in Auckland on Saturday , with skipper Misbah-ul-Haq scoring a fighting 56 . Scorecard Put into bat by South Africa , Pakistan were 175 for five when a 30-minute rain delay affected their progress and after 3.1 overs they were again halted again by a 18-minute stoppage , which reduced the match to a 47 overs per side contest . South Africa were given a revised target of 232 in 47 overs on the Duckworth/Lewis method . Misbah , in between the delays , steadied the innings with a determined 86-ball knock -- his fourth half-century in five World Cup matches . The Pakistan captain also completed 5,000 one-day international runs when on seven in his 160th match . He was the 12th Pakistani to reach the landmark but the first from any country to do so without scoring an individual hundred . Misbah hit four boundaries before he holed out at third man off paceman Dale Steyn who finished with three for 30 . Shahid Afridi made a 15-ball 22 with two sixes and a boundary as he went to 8,000 ODI runs, Pakistan , who need to win to harbour any realistic hopes of reaching the quarterfinals , brought in Sarfraz Ahmed and Younis Khan in place of the struggling Nasir Jamshed and injured Haris Sohail . Ahmed put on a confident 30-run opening stand with Ahmed Shehzad ( 18 ) -- the best opening stand for Pakistan in this tournament -- before Steyn held a smart diving catch to give South Africa the breakthrough . Shehzad hit Kyle Abbott towards long-on where Steyn , on the run , held a low chance . Ahmed , did not played in Pakistan 's first four pool matches , hit three sixes in one JP Duminy over before he ran himself out while taking a second run in a bid to reach his fifty . He also hit five boundaries in his run-a-ball knock. Younis Khan , dropped after poor run of scores in the first three matches , made an attractive 44-ball 37 with four boundaries before falling to soft dismissal off the part-time bowling of Proteas captain AB de Villiers . Sohaib Maqsood made eight and Umar Akmal 13 as they again failed to turn their potential into performance . South Africa will qualify for the quarterfinals if they win this match . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
