World Cup 2015 : Spinners give India the edge , says Hogg The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Mar 2 , 2015 , 10.23AM IST Former Australian spinner Brad Hogg also had a word of praise for Indian skipper MS Dhoni for keeping faith in his spinners. ( Agency Photo ) Page 1 of 4 PERTH : Former Australian spinner Brad Hogg is highly impressed the way the two Indian spinners , R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja , have bowled so far and said , they have given the bowling attack a decisive edge , which has made India one of the favorites in the World Cup . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " I think India have the best spin attack among all the teams in the World Cup. Ashwin and Jadeja have been effective on pitches that have traditionally been pace-friendly. In no other team have I seen spinners bowl so effectively in tandem. The way Ashwin has come out of the slump has been most impressive. He has varied his pace , used the flight and because of his high-arm action has got the most of the bounce from the pitches here. He has trouble all the batsmen , Pakistani and South African. He was virtually unplayable for the hapless UAE batsmen. I believe he will be such a crucial factor when India take on the West Indies on Friday , " Hogg said about the off-spinner . Hogg also had a word of praise for MS Dhoni for keeping faith in his spinners. " It has also been quite courageous of MS ( Dhoni ) to use two frontline spinners when the temptation would have been to rely of four pace bowlers and a lone spinner. But he has stuck to his conviction and played both ( Ashwin and Jadeja ) . I agree with him in the regard that a team should play to its strength. And that has helped the team to improve their overall performance in the World Cup. I rate India as one of the favourites , " Hogg said with a toothie smile . He said that New Zealand have also benefitted from the return of left-arm spinner Daniel Vettori into the team. " What an edge he has given to the New Zealand team. I feel the teams that have good spinners , have been performing consistently. India have Ashwin and Jadeja , Kiwis have Vettori and South Africa have Imran Tahir. They all are leaving an impression on the World Cup , despite the batsmen having virtually taken over the show , " Hogg said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
