World Cup 2015 : Sporting a mohawk , Kohli feasts on spinners at nets The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 20 , 2015 , 12.21PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : His mohawk hairdo caught the eye as much as his wide range of shots , but Virat Kohli was focus personified while feasting on the spinners at the nets here on Friday , as India geared up to take on a traditionally pace-heavy South Africa in their next ICC World Cup 2015 match . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Although it is not clear whether the South African team management team would play either legspinner Imran Tahir or left-arm spinner Aaron Phangiso in their playing XI , the Indian top-order batting , led by premier batsman Kohli , had a field day against spinners , rather than the pacers , at the nets . At the Junction Oval ground at St Kilda , Kohli hammered the spinners into the submission even as other specialist batsmen enjoyed their stint at the nets . It was a day when the centre nets saw bulk of the bowling being done by reserve spinner Axar Patel , part-time offspinner Suresh Raina and the net bowlers . The Indians batted in sets of two with one batsman taking strike for around six deliveries before the other one would get in and hit his share of balls . Kohli and Rahane were bracketed in a group and they treated Axar and Raina with disdain. Most of the time , Kohli was seen charging down the track and hitting over the in-field . While Kohli got his timing right on most occasions when he took the aerial route , Rahane was more intent on hitting through the ground . Skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni and opener Rohit Sharma later batted in a group but none of the other Indian batsman had the dominance of Kohli at the nets . Kohli 's century against Pakistan in the team 's opening encounter of the tournament must have done his confidence a world of good and that showed in the manner he batted at the nets. It was that of supreme confidence and swagger of a man who now has a phenomenal 32 international hundreds ( 22 ODIs and 10 Test tons ) . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
