Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Dilshan and Sangakkara , who hit 105 not out in his landmark match , lifted the Islanders to a mammoth 332 for one that proved too hot to chase for Bangladesh , who folded up for 240 with three overs to spare . Sri Lanka were helped along by a shoddy fielding display by Bangladesh , whose maiden appearance at the iconic Melbourne Cricket Ground was marred by five missed chances . Dilshan put on 122 for the first wicket with Lahiru Thirimanne ( 52 ) and an undefeated 210 for the second with Sangakkara , who added two catches and a stumping to his 22nd one-day century . Sangakkara , 37 , became only the fourth cricketer -- and the third Sri Lankan after Sanath Jayasuriya ( 445 ) and current team-mate Mahela Jayawardene ( 444 ) -- to play 400 one-day internationals . The list is headed by retired Indian star Sachin Tendulkar with 463 ODIs . Dilshan and Sangakkara lifted Sri Lanka to a mammoth 332/1. ( Reuters Photo ) Dilshan compiled one-day cricket 's highest individual score that did not contain a six -- he hit 22 fours -- as he anchored the innings to carry his bat in front of some 30,000 spectators . Left-handed Thirimanne survived three missed chances in his half-century which followed his 65 in the tournament opener against New Zealand . Anamul Haque spilled a waist-high catch in the first over off Bangladesh captain Mashrafe Mortaza , who then had an edge go past the wicketkeeper and first slip when Thirimanne was on 22 . The batsman moved to 44 when Mushfiqur Rahim missed a stumping off Sabbir Rahman , but Thirimanne 's luck ran out as an airy cut off seamer Rubel Hossain was snapped up by third man . Sangakkara had made only 23 when he top-edged a short ball from Taskin Ahmed , but the ball spilled out of the bowler 's hand as he dived forward to hold the catch . Sangakkara completed his 94th one-day 50 by sweeping Shakib Al Hasan for his eighth boundary , but escaped a second time soon after when Mominul Haque dropped a catch at point off Rubel . The 37-year-old reached his century in the final over to complete a total domination by the Sri Lankan batsmen of the Bangladeshi attack . Bangladesh lost flamboyant opener Tamim Iqbal off the second ball , bowled by Lasith Malinga , and slipped to 41 for three by the seventh over . Anamul 's misery in Melbourne mounted when , after making a stroke-filled 29 , he charged down the wicket for a non-existent single and was run out by a direct throw from Sri Lankan captain Angelo Mathews . Sabbir Rahman top-scored with 53 and Shakib made 46 during a sixth-wicket stand of 64 with Rahim , but their effort came too late to cause a dramatic change of fortunes for Bangladesh . Malinga finished with three wickets , with Suranga Lakmal and Dilshan claiming two each . Sri Lanka brought in batsman Dinesh Chandimal in place of all-rounder Jeevan Mendis , who was ruled out of the tournament with a hamstring injury . Bangladesh retained the same side that defeated Afghanistan in their first game. Their match against co-hosts Australia was washed out . Sri Lanka , who have four points from three games , take on England next in Wellington on Sunday. Bangladesh , left with three points from as many matches , play Scotland in Nelson on March 5 . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
