World Cup 2015 : Sri Lanka must improve standards , says Mathews The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 22 , 2015 , 03.02PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 DUNEDIN : Sri Lanka captain Angelo Mathews admitted his side must raise their game if they are to win a second World Cup after surviving a scare against Afghanistan at University Oval in Dunedin today . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Mahela Jayawardene 's 19th one-day century rescued the 1996 champions from a perilous 51 for four in pursuit of a 233-run target after openers Lahiru Thirimanne and Tillakaratne Dilshan both fell for golden ducks . Jayawardene ( 100 ) and Mathews ( 44 ) put on a crucial 126 for the fifth wicket to steady the ship before Thisara Perera smashed a quickfire 47 not out to see them home . It was 1996 champions Sri Lanka 's first win of this tournament after an opening 98-run loss to New Zealand , while debutants Afghanistan have now been defeated twice following a first-up 105-run drubbing by Bangladesh . " We really need to raise our standards to compete against the top teams , " said Mathews , whose side next face Bangladesh on Thursday , with further Pool A fixtures to come against Australia , England and Scotland . " I am feeling relieved at the moment but I thought we came back well. It was a see-saw kind of game. They started off well and then we pulled it back in the end. I knew I had to stay out there with Mahela to get some kind of stand going. " Afghanistan captain Mohammad Nabi admitted his team 's 232 all out was always going to be hard to defend . " I felt we were short by 30-40 runs. We bowled really well in the first 10-15 overs , we put pressure on them in the end. We kept them to a tight game , so we are pleased by that , " said Nabi , whose team next play Scotland in Dunedin on Thursday . Jayawardene , who was named man-of-the-match , praised Afghanistan and said the gap between Test nations and the second tier Associate sides was narrowing all the time . " All credit to Afghanistan. They batted really well in tough conditions , then followed it up beautifully with the ball , " said the 37-year-old . " They have pace , movement and they 're a handful. There is not a big gap between the top countries and these guys. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
