World Cup 2015 : 'Stand-out ' Shami excites Hadlee The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 10 , 2015 , 09.41AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 HAMILTON : When an Indian journalist hit Sir Richard Hadlee , bowling with a two-step run-up , for a six at the Hobbiton Park , the master smiled. But he bowled the next one a little short and a touch faster , hitting the journo on his elbow. " I had to do that mate , " Hadlee laughed later , settling down for a conversation . He feels the Indian pace attack has made tremendous improvement , especially Mohammad Shami. " The Indian attack has sorted out the problems that they were having in Aus tralia ahead of the World Cup. And Shami , to me , has been the stand-out bowler for them , making the Indian attack quite potent , " Hadlee said . The king of seam bowling gets excited when asked about Brendon McCullum and his captaincy . " During my playing days I never played under a captain who is as aggressive as Brendon. When you 're aggressive and proactive , it can be high risk , it can backfire. But at this stage it has n't. " Hadlee loves to talk about New Zealand and the team 's chances in the World Cup. He feels the only worry is that they have n't been stretched too far in the competition. " At this stage we have won five out of five , which is a very good start obviously . But knock-outs with eight teams will be a different ball-game. One of the challenges our batsman will face is having to chase a score of 300 to 350. We have n't been stretched to that stage so far and that is something we have to be wary of , " Hadlee added . Asked to compare the different attacks , Hadlee reeled off the statistics of the Kiwi bowlers. " Between Tim Southee and Trent Boult , they have 26 wickets , and then Vettori comes in with 12 more.I do n't think any attack has so much variety , " Hadlee said , only to add that Dale Steyn is getting better. " But I think South Africa need more backup for Steyn and Morne Morkel. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
