World Cup 2015 : Starc award defies trend in bat-dominated tournament The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 29 , 2015 , 07.23PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : At a World Cup dominated by batsmen and huge scores , it was an old-fashioned fast bowler who ultimately played the biggest role in Australia 's success . Mitchell Starc , whose devastating pace and movement troubled almost every batsmen who faced him , was named player of the tournament after Australia wrapped up their fifth title with a seven-wicket over New Zealand on Sunday . Glenn McGrath ( 2007 ) is the only other specialist bowler to have won the award but Starc was a popular choice after terrorising his opponents for the past six weeks . " It 's nice to see bat dominate ball every now and again , " Starc told reporters. " There 's been some fantastic performances with both. Obviously , it 's been a couple of big scores , a couple of double tons... but it 's just been fantastic the whole tournament. " Although New Zealand opener Martin Guptill and Chris Gayle scored double centuries during the World Cup , Starc was an obvious choice for the player of the tournament award . He took 22 wickets , equal best with New Zealand seamer Trent Boult , but at a far better average of 10.18 . Perhaps the left-armer 's most telling contribution , however , came in the first over of Sunday 's final at the Melbourne Cricket Ground when he cleaned bowled New Zealand 's captain and most destructive batsman Brendon McCullum with a yorker . The Black Caps never recovered and were bowled out for just 183 in the 45th over . " He 's been a key player for them right from the beginning , and he 's been fantastic for the Kiwis to get them off to great starts , " Starc said . " We knew we had to sort of assess him as he went because he 's very unpredictable. I think personally it was a bit of a planning game with ( bowling coach ) Craig McDermott about just bowling in pace and yorker to him first up . " I 'm not sure how that first one missed , but lucky the third one hit. There 's a lot of luck involved , but just nice to see that plan come off. " For Starc , his award was also a vindication of his rising status in Australia 's bowling ranks. One of three left-arm fast bowlers , he has often been overshadowed by Mitchell Johnson and James Faulkner , who was named man of the match in the final . He was also criticised this summer by Shane Warne for not being aggressive enough but proved all his doubters wrong and now hopes his form in the one-day game will help him play more tests . " Over the last sort of 12 to 18 months I 've really felt a part of the one-day team , really felt at home , " he said . " I 'd like to push into test cricket now , but we 've got a bit of a break now before any of the tests , but still a lot of work to do with white and red ball. Just going to really enjoy this moment. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
