World Cup 2015 : Steyn-Kohli contest could determine result , says Jennings The author has posted comments on this article Dhananjay Roy , TNN | Feb 18 , 2015 , 09.53AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Thanks to the passion that accompanies every Indo-Pak clash , for many Indian fans the World Cup may have already been won after the convincing 76-run victory over the arch-rivals at the Adelaide Oval on Sunday. And given the current state of affairs , it 's quite unlikely that the two teams will meet again in this tournament . But , MS Dhoni & Co.are well aware that the win over Pakistan would have only helped in setting the tem po for the long-drawn competition. They take on South Africa in their second Pool B game at the Mel bourne Cricket Ground on Sunday , and needless to say , the Proteas will be come hard on India as this clash will go a long way in determining which side tops the pool . India have never beaten South Africa in the World Cup , losing on three occasions - at Adelaide 1992 , at Hove 1999 and at Nagpur in 2011. And unlike Pakistan , who wilted under pressure in the muggy Adelaide evening , the Proteas will be extremely tough to beat at the MCG. Ray Jennings , the former South Africa and Royal Challengers Bangalore coach , says , " Both teams have got off to a good start , and trust me , both would hate to lose on Sunday.After all , the result could determine the table toppers in Pool B , " Jennings told TOI on Tuesday. " That in turn , would help the winning side get a relatively easier quarterfinal matchup , " he added . South Africa were given a pretty tough time by Zimbabwe in their tournament opener , but Jennings said one should not read too much into it. " Teams do take time to settle in and ward off initial nerves. Plus , teams like Zimbabwe give whatever they have against the best side as they do n't have much to lose. That 's why the result was closer than expected. " In some quarters , the forthcoming clash is also being billed as Virat Kohli-vs-AB de Villiers face-off , as both batsmen are at the top of their powers at the moment. However , Jennings differed for the fact that it simply ca n't be a batsman-vs-batsman match-up. " From my reading , it would be more apt to say it 's going to be Dale Steyn vs Virat Kohli , " in the tournament from Johannesburg . So , who is the favourite ? " Now , I am not going to stick my neck out on that one , as it could backfire. But , I am con fident the Steyn-Kohli contest would be fascinating and fans will have a great time watching it , " he said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
