World Cup 2015 : Stricken Martin Crowe promises to cheer on Black Caps The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 26 , 2015 , 12.18PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : New Zealand great Martin Crowe has vowed not even life-threatening cancer will stop him from being among an expected capacity crowd at Auckland 's Eden Park on Saturday to watch the Black Caps face Australia in an eagerly-anticipated World Cup clash . The 52-year-old master batsman , terminally ill with a rare blood disease called double-hit lymphoma , said he would n't want to miss the Pool A clash between the two tournament co-hosts and title contenders , for anything . " For me , it will be the only ( World Cup ) game I get to , and it 's almost like a bookend to my cricketing life , to be there on Saturday and watch these boys , " Crowe told the Dominion Post . Crowe , who played 77 Tests and 143 one-day internationals , hit a match-winning century to help New Zealand beat Australia at the same venue on their way to a semi-final finish in the 1992 World Cup . Crowe , one of the finest batsmen of his generation , said the current crop of New Zealand players were doing him proud . " I am incredibly proud of New Zealand cricket and the way Brendon ( McCullum ) and his team have really taken up this challenge over the last year. I am just overwhelmed at the way they 're playing a fearless game. " Crowe hoped the round robin game , which should decide who tops Pool A and plays a relatively weaker opponent in the last eight , would be a cracking affair . " It 's going to be an incredible battle. You 're not going to see fielding sides like these two probably ever in the history of the game. " Crowe envisaged a packed stadium and colourful atmosphere . " There will be 45,000 people there. The last time there was 45,000 people there ( for a one-day match ) was my first one-day international , " said Crowe of his debut against Australia in 1982 . " The crowd was spilling all over the ropes. " ( New Zealand 's ) Jeremy Coney put up a hell of an act , ( Australia 's ) Greg Chappell got the best hundred you 'll ever see. It was a day I 'll never forget. " Crowe gave a rare public appearance on Wednesday when he featured in a friendly Twenty20 match near Te Awanga beach , close to Napier -- filling in after the late withdrawal of his England contemporary Ian Botham . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
