World Cup 2015 : Team India 's sounds of silence irks media The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 19 , 2015 , 09.12AM IST The players have not spoken publicly since Dhoni addressed the mandatory post-match conference after the victory over Pakistan. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Defending champions India may be one of the most high-profile teams at the World Cup , but their reluctance to interact with the media has frustrated the large contingent of travelling reporters . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The players have not spoken publicly since skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni addressed the mandatory post-match conference after the victory over arch-rivals Pakistan in Adelaide last Sunday . When the squad 's media manager puts out a release detailing practice times and venues , he does not fail to emphasise there will be 'no media activity ' after training . The earliest a member of the team will speak now is at the next mandatory pre-match media conference on Saturday ahead of the key Pool B match against South Africa at the Melbourne Cricket Ground the next day . A media release said Dhoni will skip the conference , leaving his vice-captain Virat Kohli to take questions . While other teams organise regular media interactions during the six-week tournament , the Indian squad is apparently following a diktat from the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) to speak publicly only when it is mandated by rules . " I think it all boils down to the mistrust of the media , " said veteran Indian journalist R. Kaushik of the WisdenIndia website. " There has to be a reason for it , but I do n't know what . " Maybe they feel players are misquoted for the sake of creating a controversy. But it is a challenge reporting on the Indian team. " Dhoni , one of the most popular cricketers in India , rarely gives one-to-one interviews and has even gone on record to say he speaks to the media only because his job requires him to . During the World Twenty20 in England in 2009 after reports of dissension in the team appeared in an Indian newspaper , the entire squad turned up for the media briefing and left soon after Dhoni read out a statement . No questions were taken , leaving International Cricket Council media managers embarrassed and journalists furious . " I do n't think the BCCI cares about the media or understands their needs , " said another Indian journalist Neeru Bhatia. " I find it easier when working with other teams. " International news organisations including Agence France-Presse have suspended on-field coverage of matches hosted by the BCCI since 2012 after the board imposed restrictions on picture agencies . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
