World Cup 2015 : Team India stresses on fielding at training session The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 26 , 2015 , 10.35AM IST Into their fourth month on the tour of Australia , Team India has decided not to go overboard with cricket to avoid staleness and fatigue by having nets on alternate days. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 PERTH : You would have been forgiven for wondering whether the Indian cricket team is taking part in FIFA World Cup instead of ICC 's quadrennial showpiece . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Those present at the WACA for Team India 's training session on Wednesday saw the players show off their footballing skills by playing a game lasting full 90 minutes. They refrained from even touching the cricket ball . The players first had intensive fielding drills and then the long-draw football game on the main ground after they arrived 90 minutes behind schedule. The practice session was deferred by one and a half hours to avoid the harsh afternoon sun . The Indian players were on the ground for three hours , which they divided equally into exercise and fielding drills , followed by football for another 90 minutes. A game of football , it is believed , builds endurance and works as a stress-buster. It also develops coordination and team spirit . Into their fourth month on the tour of Australia , Team India has decided not to go overboard with cricket to avoid staleness and fatigue by having nets on alternate days . After arriving from Melbourne late on Monday , as their flight was delayed by over two hours due to rain and thunderstorm , the team took a day off on Tuesday . As UAE , their next opponents , were involved in a thrilling match against Ireland in Brisbane on Wednesday , India concentrated on fielding. The intensity has gone up several notches and the results are for all to see . MS Dhoni even had a rare word of praise for the team 's fielding effort against South Africa at MCG . During the fielding session , the players were split into two groups and a verbal record was kept on which team dropped more catches or hit the stumps directly. Another innovation on display was the use of tennis balls and a racket for sharp catches inside the ring . One player acted as a distracter , while the other behind him had to use anticipation and reflexes to catch the tennis ball , which being light is not easy to hold on to . " We do reaction drills with tennis balls and soft balls and we create a time stress for the players. They have less time to react and when you create time-stress the agility and reaction improves. Then there are speed drills , wherein we go one on one with the ones who are fielding as outriders , where speed and quick throw are important , " fielding coach R Sridhar told bcci.tv . " We try and simulate match conditions in our practice sessions. We use a centre-wicket and hit the ball in the deep so that the fielders can understand the angles to catch , field and throw. This team wants to show intent and aggression on the field , " he said . The team will have another day off on Thursday and then practise on the eve of the match on Friday , where stress will be laid on bowling and batting . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
