World Cup 2015 : Team India wants to take one step at a time The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Mar 3 , 2015 , 08.22AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 PERTH : India 's chances of playing their knockout matches in Australia have brightened. At the halfway stage of the league phase - there were no matches scheduled on Monday due to Australians celebrating Labour Day - the probability seems high that India might get to play their quarterfinal tie at a familiar Australian venue like the Melbourne Cricket Ground , especially after Sri Lanka outplayed England on Sunday night . Even if India win two of their last three games , they will finish on top of Group B and earn the right to play the fourth-placed team in Group A. This means , on current form , they are likely to run into England , who have had a miserable World Cup till now but can earn some points and make the quarters since they play minnows Afghanistan and Bangladesh in their last two matches . India , however , are not thinking that far ahead. An Indian team management official said such assessments - and any subsequent planning it might require - would only be made after the completion of the league phase . " We are focused on our next match against the West Indies on Friday. That remains our priority. We also have two more matches after that in New Zealand. The quarterfinals are a long way off and we are not looking that far. There are so many possibilities that it is difficult to predict which team we will play in the quarterfinals. There is no use breaking our heads over it right now , " the official said . " We have to ensure that we finish our league engagements well so that we can take the confidence and the momentum into the knockouts. Once we are in the knockouts , things will be very different. If we are to defend the World Cup , we will have to beat the top teams. So it hardly matters if we face them first up in the quarterfinals or at a later stage. The fact remains that in the knockouts , the odds are going to be even. Any team will be capable of beating the other on their day. " Speculation is raging among the large contingent of Indian media and fans here on India 's likely venue for the quarterfinals , since travel arrangements will have to be made accordingly. Only one thing looks certain - as India are assured of finishing among the top two teams in Group B , they will not be playing New Zealand , who will play their quarterfinal match in Wellington. Australia are scheduled to play their lasteight game in Adelaide , Sri Lanka in Sydney and England in Melbourne , irrespective of where they finish in the group . If Bangladesh make it to the quarterfinals at England 's expense , that match too will be played in Melbourne. So , India 's possibilities have narrowed down to Melbourne for the quarterfinal and Sydney for the semifinal . " We are not making any predictions. It will be a bit of a challenge for us to play West Indies on a bouncy Perth pitch and then go to New Zealand , where we will hardly get time to acclimatize to conditions. We will be travelling on March 7 to Auckland and have only two days to prepare for the match against Ireland. Our last game will be in Hamilton against Zimbabwe on March 14. So we have enough on our plate right now , " a team official said , adding : " We want to finish our group matches on a high. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
