World Cup 2015 : Three wins , now a final in Down Under ? The author has posted comments on this article Priyanka Agrawal , TNN | Mar 2 , 2015 , 01.38PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHANDIGARH : India 's third consecutive win against UAE in the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup on Saturday has re-instilled faith even in the most insipid of fans . Doubts over India making it to the semi-finals have been replaced with the hope that the 'team in blue ' might actually make it to the finals and has a genuine chance of winning the cup ! The turning point for skeptic-enthusiast from Ludhiana , Harveer Singh , 25 , came early with India 's massive win against Pakistan in Adelaide on February 15 . " I was not very excited about the World Cup due to India 's dismal performance in the series leading up to it. But after India fetched a massive win against Pakistan , I was overjoyed. I feel that we have a real chance of winning the cup , " Singh says . With expectations soaring high after consecutive victories , students like Ranjit Pannu , 27 , are already saving up to buy tickets for finals. The tickets retailing for almost Rs 14,500 or $ 300 AUD per person are not going to be a deterrent if India reaches the finals for this pharmacy student . " If India makes it to the finals I will definitely buy the tickets , even though they are quite expensive , " says Pannu , who hails from Amritsar. For Pannu , the occasion would be extremely special as he watched the semi- finals in Mohali in 2011. " If India reaches the finals it would be like history repeating itself and words can not describe the feeling of watching India do well on neutral ground , " he adds . Melbourne Cricket Ground ( MCG ) saw one of the highest attendances for the World Cup after India 's win against Pakistan. 86,876 people were present to watch India versus South Africa on February 22 . Shallu Richie Singh , 27 , who hails from Mohali and works at Monash University in Melbourne , bought her tickets at the last minute to watch the game at MCG in support of Team India . " This was the first match of my life that I went to watch live and that too in MCG. There were about 87,000 people ; around 90 % were Indians. India is rising and shining after the first few matches played in Australia and now I think I will definitely book my tickets for finals in advance. " When asked what she thought about India 's rivalry with Australia , she seems to assert on the team 's behalf : " This is India against the world. At this point , no one country scares us. It 's our cup and we wo n't give it back ! " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
