World Cup 2015 : Top teams gear up for knockouts The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 15 , 2015 , 05.49PM IST The defending champions India seem to have the simplest test against Bangladesh as the Asian rivals lock horns at the MCG on Thursday. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : With top teams making the quarterfinal line-up , the knockout stage will begin when South Africa take on 1996 champions Sri Lanka on Wednesday at the Sydney Cricket Ground . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Sri Lanka , who have had an excellent run in the final few matches of the league stage , ended third in pool A with opener Kumar Sangakkara leading the run-scorers chart after hitting a record four consecutive ODI hundreds - a first in the 50-over format . South Africa on the other hand have had a bumpy ride in the league stages after losses to India and Pakistan but skipper AB de Villers has led by example after scoring 417 runs in six matches . Points Table | Schedule The defending champions India seem to have the simplest test against Bangladesh as the Asian rivals lock horns at the MCG , here on Thursday . The Men in Blue look to have it easy against the Tigers but skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni has warned the side of any slackness against the so-called minnows , who have been instrumental in knocking England out of the tournament . India will also remember their league stage exit in the 2007 edition when they bowed out after losing to Bangladesh to avoid a potential banana slip this time around . — Cricket World Cup ( @ cricketworldcup ) March 15 , 2015 Come Friday , four-time champions Australia lock horns with an unpredictable Pakistan , 1992 champions , in what is pitted to be the most promising game of the last-eight stage . In the final quarters clash , co-hosts and contenders new Zealand will be up against West Indies , who just sneaked into the knockouts but can always be a potential threat due their unpredictable nature on play . The Kiwis , who boast of reaching six Word Cup semi finals , will once again be looking to get past the Caribbean side and then cross the final-four hurdle this time around to live up to the favourites tag . But just as the big guns will battle to get closer to the coveted title , England will be licking their wounds after making an early exit from the quadrennial event but cricket as they say is a game of glorious uncertainties . A reserve day has been scheduled for each of the seven knock-out matches . If a quarterfinal or semifinal is tied , abandoned or if the match is a no-result , then the team that finished in the higher position in the pool stage shall progress . Schedule of knockout stage matches : Quarterfinals : March 18 : South Africa vs Sri Lanka , Sydney Cricket Ground March 19 : India vs Bangladesh , Melbourne Cricket Ground March 20 : Australia vs Pakistan , Adelaide Oval March 21 : New Zealand vs West Indies , Wellington Regional Stadium Semifinals : March 24 : Eden Park , Auckland March 26 : Sydney Cricket Ground Final : March 29 : Melbourne Cricket Ground Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
