World Cup 2015 : Top ten catches The author has posted comments on this article Avijit Ghosh , TNN | Mar 12 , 2015 , 11.10AM IST Smith displayed lightning reflexes that would put Iker Casillas to shame. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 World Cup 2015 is almost a month old and here 's a cache of super catches - some of them even for losing causes - that wo n't be easily forgotten . 1. Steve Smith ( Australia ) : Without a doubt , the close-in catch of WC 2015. Smith displays lightning reflexes that would not only put Iker Casillas to shame but also cause envy in an Olympic gymnast to send England 's dangerous Jos Butler packing. A catcher 's wicket if ever there was one . 2. Dale Steyn ( South Africa ) : Who says fast bowlers do n't dive ? The South Africa speedster ran a distance before lunging in the air and clasping on to a mishit by Pakistan opener Ahmed Shehzad. A catch the peerless AB de Villiers would have been proud to take . 3. Aaron Finch ( Australia ) : When the Afghan all-rounder Nawroz Mangal guided a Mitchell Johnson delivery uppishly towards second slip , he might have yet felt safe. There was nobody in that position. But Finch standing in first slip flung himself sideways to pull off a two-handed stunner. He ended in the third slip . 4. AB de Villiers ( South Africa ) : Zimbabwe 's Solomon Mire was having fun blasting Steyn and Morkel as if they were neighbourhood practice bowlers. One such hit had De Villiers covering yards and cupping the ball inches before it hit the turf even as he skimmed on the grass like he was skating on ice . 5. Jerome Taylor ( West Indies ) : Bowler Andre Russell fell on his knees and bowed. Darren Sammy doffed his cap. Such was the effect of Taylor 's perfectly-timed jump at long-on that helped him snare South Africa 's David Miller one-handed. A kid in the stand held his head in disbelief watching this rare moment of old Caribbean magic . 6. Afsar Zazai ( Afghanistan ) : Wicketkeeper Zazai 's leaps like an acrobat and hangs on to Bangladesh opener Tamim Iqbal 's dying edge. To stop the ball from spilling out of the gloves , the 21-year-old Kabul-born brings his hands together before hitting the ground. A super catch that failed to win the match . 7. Adam Milne ( NZ ) : Another pacer who can run like a hare and dive like Greg Louganis. Milne runs sideways and goes airborne before latching on to Eoin Morgan 's shot 8. Sulieman Benn ( West Indies ) : Springing in the air forward is n't easy , especially when you are six feet and seven inches tall. But the Barbados spinner hurls his huge frame forward to pouch a Sohaib Maqsood mishit off a Darren Sammy full toss . 9. Craig Ervine ( Zimbabwe ) : De Villiers ' lofted drive would have sailed over long on but Ervine jumps in the air and takes the catch. In danger of getting toppled over , he flicks it in the air , step over , hops back and grabs it a second time. Super stuff . 10. David Miller ( South Africa ) : A brilliant exhibition of athleticism by Miller in the outfield - hard running , perfectly timed jump , then holding on to the ball even as he hits the ground - saw West Indian Dwayne Smith 's exit . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
