World Cup 2015 : Unstoppable AB is 'Neo ' of cricket world The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 7 , 2015 , 11.40AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Some call him the Neo of Matrix , others say he is the only one who can use 360 degrees of the ground , but they all agree on one point -AB de Villiers is the best batsman in the world . His closest competitor is probably Virat Kohli , but former South African captain Shaun Pollock says that AB is a little more inventive . " I am not saying Virat ca n't adapt to situations , but I think it 's AB 's inventiveness that keeps him a little higher in the ranking. He has smashed a 31-ball hundred , he is equally good in Tests and can play shots in every corner of the park , " Pollock said . AB took the day off ahead of their key clash against Pakistan and his counterpart Misbah-ul-Haq knows how difficult it is to stop him. " There 's absolutely no doubt he is the No. 1 at the moment. The only way to stop him is to get him out , " Misbah said . Given the short straight boundaries of the Eden Park , it looks ominous for the Pakistan bowlers. But Dale Steyn , who bowls to AB day-in-day-out at the nets , says the conditions do n't matter for his captain. " The only way to stop him probably is to trip him in the hotel and break his ankle , " he joked , adding : " I really do n't think the dimensions of the ground matter to him. That 's the beauty of AB , he can score on any surface under any conditions. " " I probably play against him twice in the year in the IPL , but he does n't give away too many of his secrets even in the nets. He is playing shots that people have never seen before , at times I feel he is the Neo of Matrix. He does n't even know how good he is. " Steyn had made his first-class and ODI debut alongside De Villiers and he remembers how his skipper scored 50 off 50 balls. " It was n't that difficult back then. Now , after so many years , it feels that AB is almost limitless. The only way to get him out is if he himself decides to get out. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
