World Cup 2015 : Flamboyant Virat Kohli is king off the field The author has posted comments on this article Sreemoy Talukdar , TNN | Mar 3 , 2015 , 08.40AM IST Virat Kohli leaves the nets after a training session in Perth. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Virat Kohli may be outside the top-10 list of highest run-getters in this World Cup but in terms of Twitter followers , the Indian superstar has left his peers far behind . Full Coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 With a Bollywood actor for girlfriend and oodles of attitude on the field , Kohli , who is the second-highest scorer among Indians with 186 runs from 3 matches , boasts of 5.6 million followers , the highest among all cricketers involved in the 2015 World Cup . Among the other countries , next up on the popularity chart is the cricketer who has scored the sole double century in the World Cup. West Indies opener Chris Gayle , with his swashbuckling batting , rockstar looks and chilled out lifestyle has a follower count of over 2 million. With 258 runs from 4 matches , the Jamaican would 've added a few thousand more followers since the World Cup . South Africa are yet to hit top form in the World Cup but not AB de Villiers. Their inspirational captain has already slammed the quickest 150 in ODIs and looks set to smash a few more records. He is n't doing too badly on in this race , either. With over 1.8 million followers worldwide , he gets a podium finish . For Michael Clarke , Australia 's Test captain , it has n't been an easy World Cup so far. Fresh from defeating a career-threatening hamstring injury , he still needs some match time to get back into shape. From a boyish face which earned him the nickname of Pup and dating supermodel Lara Bingle to maturing into one of Australia 's best batsmen and getting married to model Kyly Boldy , Clarke has always been in the news. Little wonder then that he commands a follower count of over 1.14 million . Among England players , Stuart Broad rocks it with 735,000 followers. He 's had an ordinary outing so far but the Englishman is a true all-rounder. The fact that his girlfriend is a Zumba-dancing lingerie model may also have something to do with his popularity though . New Zealand batsman Ross Taylor is sixth with 476,000 followers. An attractive batsman , Taylor is quite active on the platform. His quips and comments are closely followed around the world . Among Pakistan cricketers , Shahid Afridi is immensely popular and easily beats his compatriots with a count of 350,000 followers. His batting prowess and jokes about his age abound the social media platform. He is one of the most-discussed cricketers in the social media whenever Pakistan take the field . When it comes to Team India , MS Dhoni is bettered only by Kohli. India 's ODI captain , who has just become a dad , has over 3.59 million followers despite his scarce online presence. Suresh Raina has about 2.99 million followers while top Indian run-getter Shikhar Dhawan is followed by 27000 fans . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
