World Cup 2015 : Waqar clueless about Pak 's WC losing streak vs India The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 8 , 2015 , 06.45PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 KARACHI : Pakistan coach Waqar Younis was clueless for his side 's wretched losing streak against arch-rivals India in the World Cup , but said time spent by the Men in Blue in Australia before the mega-event could be one of the reasons . India defeated Pakistan by 76 runs at Adelaide in their opening match of the ongoing ICC World Cup 2015 and have since won four games on a trot to qualify for the quarterfinals . For record , Pakistan has lost all the six encounters against India in the World Cup . " I do n't have an answer for that ( why Pakistan has failed to beat India in the World Cup ) . There were different eras , different teams and different pressure situations. I am not trying to give excuses but one has to understand that India has been playing in this Australia for the last couple of months and we just arrived in Australia. It could be one of the reasons , " Waqar said from Australia . " You can say that yes India definitely played better than us in this World Cup and I think they learnt from their experiences of playing Test cricket and the triangular ODI in Australia , " he said . Waqar , however , said it was difficult to say whether the Indian team had the potential to defend its World Cup title in Australia and New Zealand . " They are a few teams who can win this World Cup but it is very difficult to say who is going to go all the way. But India and New Zealand have started really well while Australia has had an average start , " he said . On the Pakistan team , he said his side had just picked up momentum and it could be anybody 's World Cup . " What I know is that it is a very difficult to pick one team to win the World Cup but there is going to a whole lot of pressure on the teams in the knock-out stage and whoever holds the nerves will come out victorious. India is fortunate they have a very experienced captain. And they have some seasoned batters who can deliver under pressure , " he said . Waqar said Pakistan had bowled poorly in their opening matches but had picked up in the last week . " We bowled very poorly against the West Indies as we could have won that game. But we are back on track and I am sure we will be a lot better in the coming games. " Waqar said it was heartening to beat South Africa on Saturday . " I think this victory is a big jump for us and a big boost to the Pakistan dressing room because South Africa is a very good side. I am very hopeful of good things to come , " he said . The former fast bowler also wanted the ICC and its member boards to start thinking about balancing 50-overs cricket . " We need to make life easier for bowlers. Bowlers are suffering in One-Day cricket as pitches have become really very flat around the world and so many laws have changed. For real cricket , you need to balance it. They need to sit down and start thinking again. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
