World Cup 2015 : Waqar sees spirit of 1992 in reborn Pakistan The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 7 , 2015 , 04.36PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Pakistan coach Waqar Younis senses his team are developing the same belief which propelled Imran Khan 's " cornered tigers " to the World Cup in 1992 after their thrilling victory over South Africa . Pakistan pulled off a sensational 29-run win on the Duckworth-Lewis method after the match was reduced to a 47-over-a-side contest due to rain at Eden Park in Auckland . Pakistan , whose innings was twice interrupted by rain , were bowled out for 222 in 46.4 overs with skipper Misbah-ul-Haq hitting 56 and recalled wicket-keeper/batsman Sarfraz Ahmed scoring a run-a-ball 49 . Pakistan 's left-arm pace trio of Rahat Ali ( 3-40 ) , Wahab Riaz ( 3-45 ) and Mohammad Irfan ( 3-52 ) then bowled with venom to bundle South Africa out for 202 in 33.3 overs . AB de Villiers smashed an impressive 58-ball 77 with five sixes and seven boundaries but his dismissal ninth man down sealed a third win in a row for Pakistan . The victory gave Pakistan six points from five matches and revived their chances of a quarter-final place from Pool B while South Africa are also on six points from five games . Waqar said the team is gaining the same spirit of 1992 after defeats in their first two matches . " I hope it turns out to be the same , " said Waqar of the 1992 triumph which was also sealed in Australia and New Zealand . " The World Cup means pressure games and in 1992 the team handled the pressure very well . " They lost early games but then came back strongly , they had the belief and ( captain ) Imran Khan had serious belief and I am hopeful that the same belief is coming into our dressing room. We are going to get better and better. " Waqar was not part of that 1992 team , withdrawn a fortnight before the tournament started with a back problem . " We are gaining that belief that we can deliver. I am not going to think that far but , of course , we are heading in the right direction . " We still need to win the last game to reach the quarter-final , " said Waqar of Pakistan 's last match against a dangerous Ireland in Adelaide on March 15 . The coach said he was thrilled with the win which was sealed by his bowlers after his batsmen had squandered a promising start to lose their last five wickets for 25 runs . " We played aggressive cricket which I think Pakistan is known for , we have started finding the right combination and the players have started to trust their abilities and that 's the key. I am very thrilled but it 's a long way to go. " " We bowled extremely well and we were right on top , " said Waqar of his attack which he described as the " best in the tournament " a few days ago . " Our bowlers bowled with gas and real purpose and pace. " Waqar also saluted Sarfraz for his innings -- his first of the competition -- and six catches behind the stumps , equalling the world record for most one-day catches by a keeper . " I never doubted his ability , we always knew how good he is but regarding his opening , he is a makeshift opener. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
