World Cup 2015 : Watson confronts World Cup 'crunch time' The author has posted comments on this article Feb 25 , 2015 , 10.47AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Shane Watson admitted he was facing " crunch time " with the bat as he battled to stay in Australia 's side ahead of their World Cup clash with co-hosts New Zealand . In the midst of Australia 's thumping 111-run opening pool win over England in Melbourne , all-rounder Watson was dismissed by paceman Stuart Broad for a golden duck . While it was generally acknowledged he had received a good delivery , his exit reignited the long-running debate about Watson 's worth to Australia , with many observers contending he is not a good enough batsman or bowler to hold down a place in the side . The 33-year-old 's cause was not helped when Australia 's second Pool A game against Brisbane last weekend was washed out without a ball bowled and Watson 's World Cup could now depend on how he performs against New Zealand at Auckland 's Eden Park on Saturday -- if selected . " It 's crunch time for me to score runs in general , " Watson said Wednesday , when asked if he needed a score to keep his place in the side . " It was disappointing not to get through that first ball , " said Watson of his Melbourne dismissal . " But it 's important for me to score runs anytime. It 's up to the selectors in the end , whether they see fit for me to play , " he added . " I have been involved in a number of World Cups and I know what to expect. But I 'm doing everything I possibly can . " I just want to score runs and I know it does n't always go exactly to plan as well. " Prior to the World Cup , Watson scored 81 in the Sydney Test against India last month before a run of modest one-day contributions --16 , 41 , 22 and 34 prior to his Melbourne duck . Watson 's last five matches for Australia have yielded just one wicket -- against the United Arab Emirates in a World Cup warm-up -- and his place would appear to be under threat once fellow all-rounder James Faulkner regains full fitness . Faulkner was seen bowling in the Australian nets on Wednesday but is not expected to play on Saturday . Watson has 435 runs , including four fifties , in 16 World Cup games at an average of more than 54 . Asked if he felt under pressure , Watson replied : " I just want to score runs and I want to perform. That 's really what it is. That 's what I 'm working extremely hard on . " I do feel it 's coming along well , I just have n't scored runs. Unfortunately , we did n't get a game against Bangladesh. " He added : " I actually feel like I 'm hitting the ball well. I just need to give myself a chance to get in some innings and get things rolling. " Meanwhile Watson said Australia were excited about a clash with title rivals New Zealand that has been billed as a potential dress rehearsal for the March 29 final in Melbourne . " Look , we are very excited , absolutely. We have been playing very well and we know New Zealand are playing well and now we are playing in their backyard , so I think it will be a very good contest. " Watson insisted the fact Australia had not played for two weeks would n't hamper the team on Saturday against a New Zealand side who 've won all three of their pool matches to date . " It 's disappointing that we did n't play in two weeks , it would have been nice but it 's not a disadvantage as we have been playing cricket for six months , " said Watson . The Australia-New Zealand game should decide who tops Pool A and so has the relatively easier quarter-final against the fourth and final qualifier from Pool B . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
