World Cup 2015 : What makes India an inspired fielding unit The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta & Arani Basu , TNN | Mar 12 , 2015 , 09.52AM IST AB de Villiers ' run out due to a brilliant throw from the deep by Mohit Sharma turned the game against South Africa on its head. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : The pacers and batsmen have been the focus of attention in India 's relentless march into the World Cup quarterfinals. But what has been overlooked is India 's fielding , which has contributed immensely to India 's unbeaten run so far in the tournament . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 AB de Villiers ' run out due to a brilliant throw from the deep by Mohit Sharma turned the game against South Africa on its head. That run out was not a case in isolation . Even on Tuesday at Seddon Park , the likes of Ajinkya Rahane , Suresh Raina , Ravindra Jadeja , Shikhar Dhawan and Virat Kohli were absolutely top class in the field . In the deep , the likes of Mohit and Shami were impressive too. There was never an easy single on offer for the Irish batsmen , who were forced to take chances and perished in the bargain. The catching , too , was top class and every half-chance was taken . " They 've got a very good fielding unit. They get the run outs here and there , they keep hitting the stumps , they are athletic. They can easily be ranked among the best fielding units in the World Cup , " Irish captain William Porterfield said . Mohit , who possesses a bullet arm , attributed the improvement to new fielding coach R Sridhar , who joined the Indian team after Trevor Penney 's removal . " I think the whole credit goes to our fielding coach Sri bhai. We are working hard during practice and that has made a difference , " Mohit said . The practice sessions have become more innovative in the last few months , with Sridhar giving a lot of importance on reflexes. One understands that the players are enjoying their drills more and that has made the difference . Indian skipper MS Dhoni , though , feels the improved effort in the field has a lot to do with the fitness of the current crop of players. " Please do n't say that the earlier teams were not fit , but yes , the new generation of players have grown up getting better facilities. The grounds have got better , so diving comes naturally to them , " Dhoni said . The practice sessions have become more innovative in the last few months. ( PTI Photo ) Indian teams in the past often had players who were made 'targets ' by opposition batsmen , especially in the big grounds of Australia. That possibility has come down significantly . Dhoni said , " Sometimes players can be fit but not fast. But here , the XI that we played , almost all of them are good fielders. There may be one average fielder in the playing XI , but when you have extraordinary fielders backed by really good fielders , you can match some of the other sides. " The skipper admitted the fielding had changed the momentum of games at crucial junctures. " The good catches and run-outs are happening , which are changing the complexion of the game in the middle-overs , " Dhoni said . QUITE A TRANSFORMATION Team India 's fielding has got the world to sit up and take notice. Gone are the days when opponents could exploit a clumsy unit. The Indian fielders no longer give freebies away.. . HOW THE CHANGE CAME ABOUT : While the improvement has come over a period of time , part of the credit must go to new fielding coach R Sridhar , whose innovative drills have got the players more involved. A lot of work has been done on improving reflexes over the last six months . WHAT THE PLAYERS ARE DOING RIGHT : Enjoying fielding. They are also working hard on fitness to stay light on their feet . THE DIFFERENCE IT HAS MADE : Team looks sharper , swifter and more alert in crunch situations. It builds pressure and catches the opposition off guard , turning critical moments in India 's favour . INDIA 'S BEST Mohit Sharma : An asset in the outfield with one of the best arms in the team , he has patrolled the boundary with agility & efficiency . Suresh Raina : One of the safest fielders of the lot who can field anywhere. Has snaffled everything in the slips and , as always , has been a livewire in the circle and on the ropes . Ajinkya Rahane : Unassuming , clean and prompt -his fielding ability is no different from his skills with the bat. Has kept the opposition quiet with his fielding inside the ring. Has been Dhoni 's trusted soldier to protect the long-off and long-on boundaries once the opposition looks to go after the bowling . Virat Kohli : Keeps the fielding unit together from mid-off. Has cut down singles inside the ring and is always there to help fellow fielders -be it chasing the ball to the boundary or backing up throws at the stumps. Has been a safe catcher in the deep . THOSE WHO HAVE STEPPED UP Mohammed Shami : A revelation in the field , he looks light on his feet. Has been safe with high , swirling balls near the ropes. Has good boundary line awareness . Umesh Yadav : Has been fast across the turf with safe hands and a strong arm . THOSE WHO NEED TO STEP UP R Ashwin : Dhoni has done well enough to hide Ashwin in the field , placing him away from the firing line. The offie is an honest trier but ca n't match the standards of an agile bunch . KEY MOMENTS IN THE WORLD CUP Mohit 's throw beats AB : The moment defines India 's campaign. Mohit Sharma fired in a flat throw on top of the bails after covering 20 yards at the cover boundary to beat one of the swiftest runners in world cricket . Jadeja catches Shehzad : Jadeja , sharp at point , comes in the way of Shahzad 's crunching back-foot drive. The ball hits his palms , pops out , yet Jadeja completes the catch . Shami gobbles up Amla 's skier : Protecting the wide open spaces at the long-leg boundary , Mohammad Shami judged Hashim Amla 's top-edged hook to a nicety and completed the catch inches inside the rope . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
