World Cup 2015 : Why Dhoni is Captain Drool The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Mar 12 , 2015 , 02.39PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Is it the quiet aggression mixed with an ice-cool attitude ? Or is it just his ability to raise his game on the big day ? There 's something about Mr MSD that sets him apart from the rest of the herd . Having beaten Ireland black and blue on Tuesday , the Men in Blue have recorded their ninth straight win in World Cups - a world record under Captain Cool. As Team India move into the knockout rounds and inch closer to the Cup , we put our beloved captain under the lens and tell you what makes him God 's best gift to a cricket-crazy India this World Cup season . Maturity at the crease : Gone are the aggression and the late-order bravado. Dhoni still plays brilliant cricket - but not to the galleries. He brings a sense of calm during a run chase , knowing when he 'll have to hit the gas ( remember the six to close the Cup at the Wankhede in 2011 ? ) . But yes , we do miss the helicopter shot... sigh ! Captain for all seasons : Some are born captains , some achieve captaincy and some have captaincy thrust upon them. Dhoni , as we all know , belongs to the first category. Captaincy , rather than bogging him down , lifts his game. He 's astute , loves a challenge and knows how to inspire the team. What more do you want ? Humble in success : His name is among the most-valued brands in cricket and he 's a millionaire many times over , but have you seen how big money has not changed MSD ? Mind you , there is a hint of arrogance , but that comes purely from his cricketing achievements. A head that sits on firm shoulders - that 's what makes Dhoni so special . Samson on the field : Ah , how we wait with bated breath for every new hairdo he launches from time to time. Long golden mane , short 'n ' spiky crop , buzz cut , greying sideburns - every new Dhoni look is greeted with admiration. He chopped all his locks off after winning the Cup in 2011. Any guesses for this time ? Always the team man : A captain is as good as his team , goes the adage. But with Dhoni , it seems to work the other way round. When Dhoni plays well , Team India almost always emerges on top. Even in this World Cup , the young squad has rallied around the captain. The spirit on and off the pitch is there for all to see . He is the face of new India : In a country where the gymkhanas and royal families have dominated cricket for decades , Dhoni has shown that you can be from a small town and still dream big. The Ranchi boy , who was once a ticket inspector in the Indian Railways , has reached the top through sheer hard work . No overlap of public and private lives : Imagine someone like Shane Warne leading your team. Dope controversies , public affairs , spats with teammates... and then imagine Dhoni , the captain. There 's very little you know about his life outside cricket. Yes we know he is Kolkata 's son-in-law and has a stable of bikes in his Ranchi home , but what does MSD do in his free time ? We have no clue ! That 's because the 33-year-old is far more mature than his years and knows exactly how to keep his public and private lives separate. And do n't we love him for that ? Understated , that 's his signature : You ca n't call him quite the style icon , but then who wants a preening wannabe in the hot seat ? Dhoni 's wardrobe is a marker of his personality - quiet , understated , but confident. Off the pitch , he 's seen mostly in tees and jeans or in clean-cut suits. His is a style statement that his zillion-plus fans can look up to and emulate. That 's the winning formula , really . He 's just turned father : Captain Cool , Mahi , MSD - if all these monikers were not enough , you now have a new one. Daddy Dhoni ! Wife Sakshi just delivered a baby girl on February 6 , days before the World Cup kicked off. Will darling daughter be the lucky charm for the dad to bring the Cup back ? We sure hope so ! Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
