World Cup 2015 : Will England get Scot and bowled ? The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 22 , 2015 , 11.50AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : England have been rocked by two humiliating defeats and it 's a matter of survival for them. Up next for Eoin Morgan 's boys are Scotland , a team that won eight matches on the trot to qualify for the World Cup . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The Scots , too , lost their first game against New Zealand at Dunedin but that was n't as meek a capitulation as England 's was. The associates put up a brave fight to go down by three wickets , and their bowling , led by former Yorkshireman Iain Wardlaw , showed enough promise . " We have learnt our lessons from the game against New Zealand and want to use those when we take on England , " Scotland captain Preston Mommsen said. The Scots know that the crushing defeat that England suffered on Friday will leave them mentally scarred . It would be the best time for the Scots to strike and a win in this game might just open up a chance of qualification to the knock-outs for the minnows. " We have come here to show the world that the associate nations are no pushovers and they belong to the world stage. That 's why it 's important we win some games against top nations , " Mommsen said . For England , it 's about picking up the pieces , getting their house in order , and putting up a consistent performance. " We are not doing the basics right. Before the tournament , we envisioned a situation where we could lose the first two games , but not by this much. But we can still make the quarterfinals , as soon as we start winning and it should start from the next game , " Morgan said after the loss to New Zealand . Sunday will be the first time both teams get a feel of at the Hagley Oval where they need to win to stay in contention of a knock-out berth . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
