World Cup 2015 : Will only rest a player if there is danger of breakdown , says Dhoni The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 12 , 2015 , 03.27PM IST While the pitch at Seddon Park in Hamilton was a flat deck , MS Dhoni expects the Eden Park wicket to have good bounce and carry. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni believes in giving his cricketers long rope and even after sealing a quarterfinal berth is averse to changes in playing XI for their next ICC World Cup 2015 match against Zimbabwe on Saturday unless there is some serious injury to any player . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 If one goes by Dhoni 's philosophy on chopping and changing , it seems that Ambati Rayudu , Axar Patel , Stuart Binny and Bhuvneshwar Kumar will find it difficult to break into the winning team . Bhuvneshwar though played a match in Mohammed Shami 's absence but he certainly is a notch below the trio of Umesh Yadav , Shami and Mohit Sharma . Even Dhoni made it clear that he is not in a mood to rest one of the regulars and try out one from the bench . " Bench strength will warm the bench , " he had put it bluntly after their match against West Indies in Perth . In Hamilton , after the Ireland game , the Indian skipper explained in detail as to why he is not a big advocate of experimenting with playing XI even in an inconsequential game . Asked , if there 's a temptation to rest players , Dhoni said : " We need the physio 's input in this matter. If the physio feels any player is in danger of breaking down , we will rest him in that situation. Otherwise , if everyone is fit and available for selection , we 'll field the best XI. Because there are already long breaks between matches -- that much rest should be adequate. If there is no risk of injury , we will then continue to field our best eleven. " While the pitch at Seddon Park in Hamilton was a flat deck , Dhoni expects the Eden Park wicket to have good bounce and carry . " You have to adapt on every wicket. Because how quickly you adapt to conditions is also a factor in success. But I do n't think we 'll get a similar wicket in any of our upcoming matches. We 've played here previously and noticed that the wicket in Hamilton is different from those in other venues . " Other venues in New Zealand are similar to Australian pitches. They almost have the same pace and bounce. The outfields are a little smaller here. Other than that there is no great difference. So in the upcoming matches , we 'll get similar conditions. You can say this was a one-off match. " While most of Dhoni 's recent interactions with the media have been about the sea change in the approach and performance of the bowlers , Dhoni in a lighter vein revealed the secret of their success . " Probably they got tired of getting hit , " he smiled. On a serious note though , Dhoni said , " Probaly it 's a mixture of everything. May be it is about getting hit every day , implementing advices better , new bowling coach , a combination of a lot of things , " he added . Dhoni said that whenever a team tries out new strategies , its longevity depends on success . " When you do something new , it 's important that the result goes in your favour. Then you become more inclined to follow ( that new method ) . Many times , we see batsmen make changes to their batting in the nets and they are comfortable. But once they are playing a match , if they miss a ball and the pressure increases and they go back to their own basics. Because when you are in pressure situations , you need to do that. That transformation needs time , " the skipper said . " When bowlers honestly tried something and said 'Let 's do it ' and it worked in their favour , that 's something that triggered a spark. Hopefully this learning will remain in their mind always , " he said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
