World Cup 2015 : Windies skipper Holder backs misfiring Gayle The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 23 , 2015 , 12.43PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CANBERRA : West Indies skipper Jason Holder has faith explosive opener Chris Gayle will break his run of low scores against Zimbabwe at the World Cup in Canberra on Tuesday . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Frustrations have been building outside and inside the West Indies camp over Gayle 's inability to tee off to a big score after a run of 20 one-day internationals without a century . After he was out for four against Pakistan on Saturday , West Indies Cricket Board ( WICB ) president Dave Cameron apparently retweeted a demand for the outspoken opener to be given " a retirement package " . Cameron has since apologised and Gayle was a constant topic during Holder 's pre-match media conference at Canberra 's Manuka Oval on Monday . However , the rookie skipper backed his senior teammate to recapture form and fuel the West Indies momentum following their thumping 150-run win over Pakistan . " Well , every time I see Chris Gayle , I expect to see a positive Chris Gayle , " Holder said . " Although he has n't been getting runs , we still have a lot of confidence in him. I just hope that he can come tomorrow and just get us in and just take it as deep as possible for us . " Any team would despise having Chris Gayle going guns blazing at the top. Obviously he has n't yet , but we still have full confidence in him . " And it 's very good to see that he still has n't fired and yet we 're still getting 300 runs. I guess when his contribution comes , we 'll get somewhere close to 400 hopefully. " Fast bowler Holder at 23 has been made skipper of a notoriously fractious West Indies team and replaced Dwayne Bravo , who was captain when the team sensationally abandoned their tour of India last October over a contractual dispute with the WICB . Former West Indies coach Ottis Gibson said that Holder , who has played just 28 ODIs , was not ready to captain the one-day side and that the captaincy was too much for him at this stage of his career . " I have a decent relationship with Ottis Gibson. We got along pretty well , " Holder said diplomatically . " I respect him a lot , and I heard about his comments. I can say I 'm ready. If I was n't ready , I probably would n't accept the job. I think I can make a difference . " It 's early days for me in captaincy in terms of this West Indies team , but I think over time once I can get my players to come together a lot more and just gel as one unit , I think we can be world beaters again. " But uppermost in Holder 's thoughts is beating Zimbabwe on Tuesday and pushing on towards the quarter-finals . " I 'm very confident going forward into this game. I think what is important is that we keep this momentum that we have going , " he said . " I think we still have room for improvement. Obviously we can cut a few of our boundary balls when we bowl . " I think if we can get a few more contributions going deeper into the innings in terms of the top order , I think we can get close to 350 plus , and I think that is not beyond us because of our firepower in the middle and the end . " I think we still have to improve , too , in our fielding. I think we could be a lot sharper in the field and give a better account of ourselves. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
