World Cup 2015 : Williams guides Zimbabwe to nervous win over UAE The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Feb 19 , 2015 , 11.14AM IST Zimbabwe 's Sean Williams takes more runs from the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) bowling during the Pool B 2015 Cricket World Cup match in Nelson. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NELSON ( New Zealand ) : Sean Williams ensured Zimbabwe would not become the first top tier side to lose to United Arab Emirates when his counter-attacking half-century secured a four-wicket victory in their World Cup clash in Nelson on Thursday . Scorecard Williams ( 76 not out ) and Sean Ervine ( 42 ) were required to rescue their side with an 83-run partnership after UAE 's bowlers had reduced them to 167 for five in the 33rd over of their innings in the Pool B clash at Saxton Oval . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The left-handed pair had already settled any nerves by the time 29-year old Ervine was caught and bowled by Krishna Chandran with just 36 runs from seven overs required . Zimbabwe captain Elton Chigumbura came in to see his side safely to their target of 286 with two overs to spare and he finished on 14 not out . UAE , making their first World Cup appearance since 1996 , posted a competitive 285 for seven and then took wickets at crucial moments with wicketkeeper Brendan Taylor 's dismissal in the 28th over looking almost fatal at the time . Taylor was well set and looking to up his scoring rate when he attempted to sweep a full delivery from Nasir Aziz and was struck low on his front pad . He was given out for 47 but reviewed the decision only for technology to show the ball would have hit the middle stump . Their tails up , UAE looked on course to record their first win over a test nation in their 20th official one-day international until Williams and Ervine intervened . The victory ended Zimbabwe 's losing streak of seven matches stretching back to their three-wicket win over Australia in Harare last August . UAE 's innings had been well constructed with all but two of their batsmen getting past 20 and Shaiman Anwar stroking his highest score in one-day international cricket . Anwar scored 67 and was ably supported in an 82-run partnership by wicketkeeper Swapnil Patil ( 32 ) , while Khurram Khan ( 45 ) and Krishna Chandran ( 34 ) also produced an 82-run third-wicket partnership . Mohammad Naveed ( 23 ) and Amjad Javed ( 25 ) combined for a quick-fire unbroken stand of 53 at the end of the innings to drive the UAE to their highest score in a one-day international . Tendai Chatara finished with figures of 3-42 . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
