World Cup : Dhoni chases history as India take on Bangladesh The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Mar 19 , 2015 , 07.03AM IST If India win on Thursday , Dhoni will become the first Indian captain and third overall to win 100 ODIs . Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : ﻿ India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni would be chasing history when his team takes on Bangladesh in the second quarterfinal of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. If India wins against Bangladesh , Dhoni will become the first Indian captain and third overall to win 100 ODIs. It will also put Dhoni in a position from where he can actually eye winning two back-to-back World Cup as a captain . ﻿ The first quarterfinal turned out to be a one-sided contest. India will hope that their game against Bangladesh will also be an easy ride . What : India vs Bangladesh , 2nd Quarterfinal Venue : Melbourne Cricket Ground Time : 9 AM IST THE PROGNOSIS Defending champions India look a transformed , rejuvenated side. They have surprised everyone by winning all their games in the league phase and even topping the group. However , all that ceases to matter now -they need to win each match from here , starting with Bangladesh. On paper , Bangladesh do n't seem to have the wherewithal to pose a serious challenge but they have beaten England and made it to the quarterfinals in style. The pressure is off them and they have a couple of batsmen in pristine form ; their seam bowlers too have been pacy and accurate. High on confidence , they will take heart from the fact that they beat India in the 2007 edition. However , the weather may play spoilsport , with scattered showers in the evening on the cards . FORM GUIDE INDIA WON 24 BANGLADESH WON 3 HEAD TO HEAD IN WORLD CUPS : India have won 4 and lost 1 of their last 5 completed encounters against Bangladesh : India have won 1 and lost 1 game against Bangladesh . TEAM OUTLOOK INDIA Keyed up. They could n't have asked for an easier opposition at this juncture but will be wary of a slip-up. Rohit Sharma 's form at the top has been a concern. The pacers , who have impressed so far , must not let up on intensity . X-Factor : Bangladesh 's Mahmudullah has two consecutive centuries and averages 86 from five games. He has scored more runs than any of the Indian batsmen. An encore here and he will be the toast of his nation for years to come . Y-Factor : Why do teams batting first win at the MCG ? The last five World Cup games contested at this venue have all been won by the side batting first , including thrice in this edition. The toss may well prove to be critical . Z-Factor : The fielding. The MCG has a big outfield and sharp throws , along with safe catching skills , may swing the match.Barring one or two , India 's fielders have been exceptional.Bangladesh , though , have been erratic on the field . TEAM OUTLOOK BANGLADESH Relaxed. They have attained their primary target of making the quarters. A good performance here will be the icing on the cake. Mashrafe Mortaza , who missed the last game against New Zealand , will be back to lead the side . " The main World Cup is going to start now. You ca n't take Bangladesh lightly , they have done well against us.We lost to them in the Asia Cup. They know how to play One-day cricket now.We do n't have much room for error , " Suresh Raina said . STATS TO LOOK AT 137 Runs scored by Shikhar Dhawan at the MCG against South Africa. He is the first and only Indian to post a World Cup century at this venue . 300 - Bangladesh will be playing their 300th ODI. Their present tally reads 88 wins , 207 defeats and four no-result games -a win per cent of 29.83 . 6 for 42 by Ajit Agarkar , vs Australia in 2004 , are the best figures at this venue. Mitchell Starc ( Aus ) is the only other bowler to capture six wickets at the MCG . 49 Runs needed by MS Dhoni ( 5951 @ 57.22 in 176 matches ) to become the first Indian and third overall to complete 6000 runs or more as captain in ODIs. Ricky Ponting ( 8497 at an average of 42.91 in 230 ODIs ) and Stephen Fleming ( 6295 at 32.78 in 218 ) are the only two others who have scored more as captain. For India , Mohammad Azharuddin ( 5239 @ 39.39 in 174 ODIs ) and Sourav Ganguly ( 5104 @ 38.66 in 147 ODIs ) are the other leading scorers as captain . 100 With a win over Bangladesh , Dhoni will become the first Indian captain and third overall to win 100 ODIs. The captains with most wins in ODIs are Ricky Ponting ( 165 ) , Allan Border ( 107 ) , Hansie Cronje ( 99 ) , Dhoni ( 99 ) and Stephen Fleming ( 98 ) . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
