Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Perhaps anticipating a low turn-out at office , Nayantara Pani , business head of Bangalore-based PlayRight , said , " I 've given leave to my staff. We 're into sport communications and are sports enthusiasts. If there 's a super important meeting , it 'll be only after 4.30 pm. " An excited Pallavi Singh , 38 , of Citibank , Gurgaon , said , " We 've declared Thursday a no-meeting day to support our nation. Venue not fixed but ( we 'll be ) with peers at hub or big screen at work. Bleed Blue ! The game is on ! " Though almost 60 % of respondents virtuously said they would report for work , may offices to are getting into the festive spirit. A Coca Cola spokesperson said , " Match days are usually relaxed in our office. We have n't granted leave to employees , but they 're free to gather in the cafeteria or in their bosses ' cabins to watch the match. " On the other hand , Shalini Pillai , head of people , performance and culture , KPMG in India , said its employees have been granted leave on Thursday. " It 's time to celebrate India reaching the semi-final in the all important clash with Australia. KPMG supports Team India and wishes them all the best for this momentous match. " In Ludhiana , fans are prepping for a grand celebration with many residents having booked tractors to take their celebrations to the streets. On match day , many restaurants are offering heavy discounts and giving away freebies for each boundary hit or century scored . Kochi teen Mark Anthony , whose 12th grade state board exams are going on , said , " My mom does n't let me watch TV but my tuition teacher Varghese never misses an India match. And that gives me and friends some hope of catching a few overs with him. " In Chennai , Vasanth Raj , an auto consultant , said that he would go to work only after the game is over. " It 's an important game for us and there 's no way I am going to office. I 've asked for half-a-day leave. " In Kolkata , MNC professionals , professors , cricket fans are planning to either reschedule their work or skip office altogether. Gourisankar Sa , a Bose Institute professor , said , " For me on Thursday , the World Cup match will top the priority. I have one class which I 'll wrap up quickly and follow the match on internet in the laboratory. Somdutta Basu , an MNC employee , said , " Initially I had thought of taking leave , but then I decided to bunk work till the match is over citing official meetings etc. " ESPNcricinfo , which interviewed 6,000 respondents , said , " Cricket fans will not let work get in the way of them enjoying the much-awaited World Cup tournament. Sixty two per cent said they will miss work at some point. When it comes to what excuses they would use to skip work , the time-tested method of calling in sick appeals more to the younger fans ; 75 % fans over 30 are open to skipping work to watch a match. " ( Inputs from Chennai , Delhi-NCR , Mumbai , Bangalore , Kochi , Kolkata , Chandigarh ) Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
