The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 16 , 2015 , 12.54PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : When Mitchell Marsh stunned England with a five-wicket haul in co-hosts Australia 's 111-run thrashing of England in their opening World Cup match it represented the latest chapter in a remarkable family history . Saturday 's match at the Melbourne Cricket Ground was Marsh 's World Cup debut and his return came 28 years after his father , Geoff Marsh , marked his first match in the tournament with a hundred against India at Madras ( Chennai ) . Australia went on to win the 1987 World Cup , with opener Marsh a mainstay of the side . Marsh 's eldest son , Shaun , a batsman , has also followed him into the international arena and just missed out on selection for Australia 's squad . After presenting Mitchell with his prized 'baggy green ' cap , Marsh , who had a stint as Australia coach , joked " speak to my wife , we should have kept going ! " as he confirmed his own personal production line of international cricketers was at an end . Marsh is not the only player at this World Cup looking to emulate his father by lifting the trophy . Medium-pacer Roger Binny was one of the stars of India 's shock success in winning the 1983 World Cup . Not only is his son Stuart a bowler of similar type , but Roger Binny is now a member of India 's selection panel and , inevitably , there have been accusations of nepotism when it comes to the make-up of their World Cup squad . However , India great Sunil Gavaskar insisted such charges were wide of the mark . " Stuart Binny will be handy with bat and ball in Australia and New Zealand. It 's ( his selection ) not because he is Roger Binny 's son , " Gavaskar told NDTV , adding Roger Binny always removed himself from selection meetings when Stuart 's name came up for consideration . But while the Binnys are on the same side that is not the case for two members of the Simmons ' family , who found themselves in opposition on Monday with Lendl playing for the West Indies against an Ireland team coached by uncle Phil , himself a former West Indies batsman . Brothers too have made their mark on the World Cup with Umar Akmal , Pakistan 's wicketkeeper in their tournament-opening loss to India , succeeding Kamran , the team 's gloveman at the 2011 edition , behind the stumps . Meanwhile Ireland 's O'Briens , Niall and Kevin , are seasoned World Cup campaigners . Four years ago , Kevin carved out his own place in cricket history with the fastest-ever World Cup hundred , scoring 113 off just 63 balls as Ireland recorded a stunning win over England while Niall made an unbeaten fifty against the Netherlands . The first World Cup , in England in 1975 , saw Don Pringle represent minnows East Africa who , unsurprisingly lost all three of their pool matches . But Derek Pringle , Don 's son , enjoyed rather more in the way of World Cup success and , but for a disputed lbw decision , might have bowled England to victory in the 1992 final they lost to Pakistan in Melbourne . The inaugural World Cup almost resulted in a sibling success for the Chappell brothers , with skipper Ian and Greg both members of the Australia side beaten by the West Indies in a memorable final at Lord 's . But 24 years later at Lord 's , Steve Waugh led an Australia side featuring twin brother Mark -- nicknamed 'junior ' as he is the younger of the pair -- to victory over Pakistan in the 1999 World Cup final . " Being born a twin is a big thing , though , " Waugh said in an interview with Inside Sport magazine . " It made you competitive and you stood out. That gave us that competitive hard streak . " We relied on each other and probably got more opportunities because we were twins. " New Zealand 's McCullum brothers will be looking to emulate the Waugh twins at this World Cup , although off-spinner Nathan will need to force his way past Daniel Vettori if he is to join skipper Brendon McCullum in the Black Caps ' side . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
