World Cup : Ton-up Simmons revives Windies against Ireland The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 16 , 2015 , 08.03AM IST West Indies batsman Lendl Simmons celebrates a century during the Pool B World Cup match against Ireland at Saxton Park Oval in Nelson on February 16 , 2015. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NELSON : Lendl Simmons 's dashing hundred and a personal-best 89 from Darren Sammy hoisted the West Indies to 304 for seven batting first in their World Cup opener against Ireland in Nelson on Monday . Scorecard The pair , who came together with the West Indies in trouble at 87 for five after a three-wicket burst by left-arm spinner George Dockrell , equalled the West Indies ' sixth-wicket partnership record of 154 . Simmons -- whose uncle Phil , the former West Indies batsman , is Ireland 's coach -- was eventually dismissed in the last over for 104 , his second one-day international century . With Andre Russell adding an unbeaten 27 at the end , the West Indies posted 124 off the final 10 overs . But until Simmons and Sammy set about their rescue mission , the innings had revolved around the spin bowling of the 22-year-old Dockrell . He finished with three for 50 after Ireland captain William Porterfield won the toss and opted to field , dismissing thoughts of superstition in a tournament where all four games played so far have been won by the team batting first . His three prized scalps -- Chris Gayle , Marlon Samuels and Denesh Ramdin -- came in the space of just eight deliveries . It was another disappointment for Gayle , whose reputation as a cavalier big hitter has deserted him in recent times . He has not passed 50 since playing Bangladesh in August and the last of his 21 centuries was against Sri Lanka in June 2013 . Two-time World Cup champions West Indies were banking on Gayle and Samuels in their opener , but their 47-run stand ended when Gayle tried to break Dockrell 's stranglehold and was caught by Kevin O'Brien on the boundary . Two balls later , Dockrell had Samuels lbw for 21. The West Indies appealed but the replays confirmed Samuels was plumb in front . Dockrell fired again in his next over , getting an lbw decision against Denesh Ramdin . The West Indies had lost three wickets for nine runs and were struggling at 87 for five in the 24th over . Enter Sammy and Simmons , who set about dismantling the bowling as they plundered runs at a rate of nearly eight an over . Former West Indies captain Sammy faced 67 balls , including nine fours and four sixes while Simmons struck nine fours and five sixes in just 84 deliveries . The West Indies started cautiously with only six runs in the first three overs and lost their first two wickets in a three-ball burst when Kevin O'Brien removed Dwayne Smith for 18 and Darren Bravo was run out by McBrine without scoring . The 21-year-old McBrine , playing only his fourth ODI and for the first time facing a team other than Scotland , conceded just 26 runs from his 10 overs . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
