Younis gamble against India failed , says Waqar The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 19 , 2015 , 10.24AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : The defeat at the hands of India has hit the Pakistan team really hard. They are trying their best to shrug it off but the wounds are fresh. The hype around the game , the Umar Akmal decision which went against them and losing a few crucial moments are being seen as the reasons behind the defeat . " It was a game that we should have won. From being 90/1 , there was no reason why we should lose the game chasing 300. Given the start that we had , it was a score that we should have chased down , " Pakistan captain Misbah-ul-Haq told TOI on the sidelines of a cultural programme organized here on Wednesday . The Pakistan team arrived in Christchurch on Tuesday for their next game against West Indies on February 21 and with the sun beating down , the entire team worked really hard at the Hagley Oval. It is certain that Pakistan are not going to persist with Younis Khan as opener after the experiment failed against India . " Younis was not getting runs , so we tried to find another place for him. It did n't work and now we have to think of something else , " coach Waqar Younis said. There are suggestions that Younis may be dropped altogether , though Waqar said the decision would be taken in due course . West Indies , Pakistan 's next opponents , are themselves not too well-placed after a defeat against Ireland in Nelson a couple of days back. Misbah made it clear that there was no way the Pakistan team would take West Indies - who took the day off - lightly. " We have seen how teams are performing in this tournament. Ireland have won , Scotland did very well , there is no way we can take West Indies lightly. We have to be a ruthless and professional unit if we are to go any further , " Misbah said . The batsmen , barring Shahid Afridi , got long practice sessions and both the captain and the coach insisted that the batting had to click if Pakistan are to make a strong comeback. " With the kind of rules in place these days , 300 is a par score on the pitches of Australia and New Zealand. We have to keep in mind that there will be occasions where we will be chasing more than 300. If we ca n't chase those down , we are not going to win , " Waqar added . Sunday 's defeat against India came back into the conversation and there were times when Waqar seemed to be lose patience . " We have done everything that needed to be done. We have spoken to the players , given them video stats on where the other teams are weak. Every point has been made many times over and now it 's time for them deliver , " Waqar explained , summing up the mood in the Pakistan camp . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
