Yuvraj , Amla among big stars to go under IPL hammer The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 15 , 2015 , 03.44PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 BENGALURU : Top cricketers Yuvraj Singh and Hashim Amla will be the star attractions in IPL 8 auctions that will see quite a few Indian and international players going under the hammer here on Monday . Last year 's most expensive buy , Yuvraj , who was picked by Royal Challengers Bangalore for Rs. 14 crores , will once again be one of the biggest names to hit the auction table this time around. The other marquee players that will be auctioned , apart from Yuvraj , include former Delhi Daredevils captain Kevin Pietersen and their costliest player last year , Dinesh Karthik . South Africa 's Amla is another big fish waiting to be bought by the franchises , who will be ready with their respective strategic teams . The other top flight players who will be up for auction this year include Mahela Jayawardene , Eoin Morgan , Kumar Sangakkara , Murali Vijay , Darren Sammy , Angelo Mathews , Aaron Finch and Alex Hales. The auction will be conducted by Richard Madley , a professional auctioneer from England who has been conducting the player auctions since the inaugural IPL season in 2008 . Ahead of the auction , a total of 122 cricketers including 78 Indians and 44 overseas players have been retained by the franchises for the 2015 season , while six Indian cricketers have been traded during the window for player trade this year . This year , the franchises have a salary purse of Rs.63 crore each for the eighth season -- a 5 per cent increase over last season 's purse. The bidding process will serve as the prelude to the Pepsi IPL 2015 which will get underway on April 8 . The player auction will be broadcast live on both SONY SIX SD and HD at 9 : 30 am onwards . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
