14 teams gear up for showdown as cricket 's biggest event kicks off The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 13 , 2015 , 09.38AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : The second biggest single-sport event on the earth. That 's how the co-hosts Australia and New Zealand have showcased the 11th Cricket World Cup , beginning on Saturday. It is the largest after Football World Cup . It is also the stage where the Aussies expect their team , overwhelming favourites , to clinch their fifth title and make up for the disappointment of missing out in 1992 , the only previous occasion the event was held in Australasia . Their co-hosts New Zealand , not for the first time , are the dark horses. Though they have been under-achievers through generations , many feel , it will finally be their World Cup . But how can anybody , as myopic and parochial he might be , discount the Asian giants. India are the defending champions and Pakistan the winners when the event was held here in 1992 . As fate would have it , the two South Asian rivals will clash at the Adelaide Oval here on Sunday , a day after another big-ticket event between rivals Australia and England at the MCG on the opening day on Saturday . Of course , New Zealand , being a few hours ahead of Australia , will get the chance to open the World Cup officially with a mouth-watering clash with Sri Lanka at Christchurch on Saturday . Like Australia , the New Zealanders too are making the most of the opportunity to host the World Cup after 23 years , and showcase their country to the world . They have ensured all three Asian giants play in their backyard. Besides , hosting Sri Lanka , they will also have India playing last two of their six league matches in Auckland and Hamilton early next month and Pakistan will play three matches there . Besides , New Zealand will host their quarterfinal at Wellington and the semifinal in Auckland. The grand finale will be at Melbourne Cricket Ground on March 29 . Cricket has changed a lot since 1992 , the last time the World Cup was held Down Under.Those were simpler times. Australia were n't such a force. The Cup was quite open with hardly any team the favourties. Fancied teams like Australia , India and West Indies were swept away and the final was contested between Pakistan and England . A leader of the quality of Imran Khan and the likes of Miandad , Akram , Waqar , Wasim Raja and the new kid on the block Inzaman-ul Haq fetched the team their only World Cup crown . The present Pakistani team is not a patch on the Collection of 1992 , though their captain Misbah-ul-Haq and veteran Shahid Afridi are adamant that the team has the ability to surprise the best of the teams and they should not be taken lightly . India as defending champions do not exude much confidence going into the World Cup. That is mainly due to their poor form on the current Australian tour . Barring a lone win over minnows Afghanistan in an unofficial warm-up game , India have not won a match in the over two months they have been in Australia. They have been hampered by three Fs , fitness , fatigue , and form . That has led to be a big F. The Indian fans are Frustrated. However , they have taken some strides forward , like barring Ishant Sharma , the others are fit and raring to go . Rohit Sharma is in top form while others too , barring skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni and Virat Kohli , have some runs under their belt. The bowling has been good in patches , but remains their biggest worry , so much so that Dhoni plans to use spinners extensively . However , what gives India hope is the format. In the worst case scenario of losing to Pakistan and South Africa in their first two matches , they will then be required to get the better of UAE , Zimbabwe and Ireland , the three unheralded teams in Group B . And with West Indies not being such a force now , with four wins they should be able to finish at least third in the group and should be able to avoid Australia in the quarterfinals . The commerce of present day dictates maximum number of matches and reduces the scope for teams like India being knocked out in the first phase itself , like it happened in 2007 and the organizers and TV channels suffering huge losses . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
