15 degrees of trouble for modern-day bowlers The author has posted comments on this article Vedam Jaishankar , TNN | Oct 1 , 2014 , 11.36AM IST The committee , which also had three bio-mechanical experts found that 99 per cent of all bowlers straightened their bowling arm at delivery and most of them beyond the legally permissible limit. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BANGALORE : What is so sacrosanct about the 15 degree limit for quirks in bowling action ? To understand the effect of chucking , the logic of batting needs to be outlined : When a bowler with a clean action operates , the batsman expects and sees the ball coming out of an arc ( the bowling arm rolling over on delivery ) and reacts accordingly. But when that arc is broken because of chucking the batsman momentarily loses sight of the ball . That precious fraction of a second which eats into his reaction time gives an unfair advantage to the bowler , irrespective of whether he is a spinner , medium pacer or fast bowler. And in T20 cricket this precious fraction of a second is absolutely critical . Over the years the MCC , custodian of the laws of the game , have tweaked the 'throwing law ' a number of times . In the 2000 code they came up with a stipulation that slow bowlers could straighten their bowling arm by 5 degrees , medium pacers by 7.5 degrees and fast bowlers by 10 degrees as tests proved that it was near impossible not to flex the elbow when the bowling arm was rotated at the shoulder . Then came the bolt from the blue. The ICC secretly filmed all bowlers during the 2004 Champions Trophy in England and appointed a committee of former Test players , Angus Fraser ( England ) , Aravinda de Silva ( Sri Lanka ) , Michael Holding ( West Indies ) , Tony Lewis ( England ) , Tim May ( Australia ) and David Richardson ( South Africa ) to look into the issues arising from it . The committee , which also had three bio-mechanical experts found that 99 per cent of all bowlers straightened their bowling arm at delivery and most of them beyond the legally permissible limit . This included Shoaib Akhtar , Brett Lee , Glen McGrath , Jason Gillespie , Harbhajan Singh , et al and only occasional bowler Ram Naresh Sarwan delivered with a perfectly straight arm ! The panel which viewed video footage with slow motion and super slow motion replays also found that legendary bowlers such as Dennis Lillee , Fred Trueman , Richard Hadlee , Curtly Ambrose , Imran Khan and others , although they looked perfect to the naked eye , straightened their arm too much when bowling , meaning they , too , were throwing . Michael Holding studied the evidence and realized that " when bowlers who appear to have proper actions to the naked eye are thoroughly analysed , they are shown to straighten their arms by 10 or 11 degrees. Under the strict rules of the game they are throwing " . He added that " cricket needs to deal with this reality " . That reality brought the 15 degrees permissible straightening of the arm to become the law. And it is this permissible limit that bowlers are attempting to exploit to the hilt ( with up to 40 degrees straightening of the arm ) in T20 cricket , and consequently running foul of the game 's authorities . WHY IS NARINE SO SPECIAL ? Speed and trajectory : Bowls flat at a fastish pace , making it difficult for batsmen to use their feet and forcing them to play agricultural shots and crossbatted swipes. Is hard to score off on turning pitches. Is more successful in T20s as there is constant pressure to score . Game sense : Is not into send offs or sledging. Appears calm.Is at ease bowling in the first six overs of a T20 tie or at the death . Good stock ball : Relies on a good stock ball , unlike other mystery spinners. Has an accurate and viciously turning off-spinner. Is comfortable bowling to both left and right-handers and from round or over the wicket. Uses his variation ( the one that goes away from the right-hander ) sparingly and is difficult to pick . The famed knuckle ball : Very little difference between offspinner and the killer knuckle ball ( the delivery which turns away from the right-hander ) .The knuckle ball is Narine 's variation of the doosra , achieved with a flick of his index and middle finger . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
