1992 World Cup : For Pakistan , as good as it got The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Feb 8 , 2015 , 11.19AM IST Pakistan 's World Cup win in 1992 heralded only the unravelling of their fragile unity and a cantankerous , ramshackle descent into chaos. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 Osman Samiuddin rewinds to the 1992 World Cup when a pouncing tiger became the touchstone for a team 's success By most standards he probably left it too late , but by Pakistan 's , Imran Khan managed to time it just right . By the time his side arrived in Perth to take on Australia at the 1992 World Cup , they had won just one of their first five matches and were , in the words of one player , walking dead. Never one of life 's great communicators , Imran had become ever more distant during the tournament ; a chronic shoulder injury kept his physical involvement intermittent and his cancer hospital project was the primary motivation of his off-field life . He was leading in battered body - as fierce in some training sessions as he always was - but in spirit and soul , he was absent. 'I think there 's a big communication problem in the team at the moment, ' Wasim Akram revealed at the time...Nor was he a great orator , though he at least possessed the baritone for it. But now , in Perth , he gathered his men in the dressing room before the game , wearing a white T-shirt with a tiger-ready to pounce--imprinted on it. Something about the direness of the situation stirred him. 'Maybe he thought that he could not be humiliated this badly , that he could not get this low in life , that God will not drop him so low, ' remembers Aaqib Javed , who , in a tournament where Pakistan veered so wildly , was a stabilizing centre of gravity in their bowling attack. 'So after this , with so much crap around us , we can only win. There is nothing else left. I do n't know where he got this feeling from , I really do n't know , but he came into the dressing room. He came in wearing the T-shirt. Maybe , he just thought , let 's try one final time.'.... Imran spoke to each player and told them to look inside themselves , to understand that they were the best players in the world...He told them that he knew--not just thought--but that he knew and believed that Pakistan will win the World Cup. 'I know we will win it. ' What he did was transmit his self-belief to the rest of the squad , a monumental feat which does n't just happen . This transplantation was the accumulation of a career , a life , of every single day of success , and unchallenged authority , of every time he returned to captaincy automatically , of every time he refused to play when it was too hot , or against too weak a side. It was the cumulative effect of a decade of Imran as captain , hero and icon , distilled in one talk . The impact was greatest on the younger players , like Aaqib and Mushtaq Ahmed , who had grown up idolizing Imran and were now disciples to his beneficent Svengali. Others were less moved. Javed Miandad makes no mention of it in his autobiography. Another senior member said it was just the 'usual geeing-up-talk shit... " The fact remains though that Pakistan 's upturn began from precisely the morning of that Australia game. 'All I know is that after those fifteen minutes , when the match began , the way I went into that ground , I have n't had that feeling ever before and I never had it again after, ' Aaqib says. ...'In those fifteen minutes... life changed. ' In a rare bit of common sense planning , Pakistan arrived at the fifth World Cup three weeks early to acclimatize to conditions...But from very early , the tournament unfolded like a great impending disaster , a series of small screw-ups all snowballing into one massive one. The situation was , in one sense , typical of the contrariness of Pakistan : arriving early to prepare better , but that eagerness turning into a curse. To begin , Pakistan had travelled to Australia initially without Javed Miandad , their best batsman and their greatest ODI batsman ever. Officially , he had not been picked because of a back strain...But this being Miandad , conspiracies were constantly stewing around him . The decision not to pick him , he wrote in his autobiography , was the result of an ongoing dispute with Imran , which on the surface was a strategic one about his position in the batting order.. . Less paranoid reasons did exist , such as his form before the tournament...But the exclusion was also short-lived. Miandad...is said to have worked various political favours to find his way back in . He did n't need to work too hard because Pakistan , and specifically their batting , was abysmal in the warm-up games.. . Including the two first-class games ( one of which they nearly lost ) , Pakistan won just one of their six warm-up matches. That began a tournament start in which they won just a solitary game in their first five ( and that too against Zimbabwe , who then were yet to become the formidable side of the late 1990s ) ... So low did they get , it was difficult to know which was the lowest. Was it the 74 all out to England in Adelaide , where rain rescued an improbable point for them ? It could have been the loss to India in Sydney three days later , with all the baggage that contest carries. Maybe it was the South Africa game , in which the ominous dark , grey clouds over Brisbane seemed to reflect Pakistan 's mood and prospects and in which they were at their most shambolic in the field . No two successive elevens were the same. They did n't know their best batting order ( Inzamam-ul-Haq opened and played one down , Fazal opened as well ) . Miandad developed debilitating gastritis after the India loss and missed the South Africa game. Malik was being pushed up and down the order. The bowling threatened but was schizoid , typified by Akram 's six wickets and twenty wides in those five games. Akram was so despondent that he had watched Naked Gun 2 ½ and Backdraft four times already . So bad was it that in Imran 's absence , players were refusing to take the captaincy. '...This was how low the team had fallen : Miandad unfit , Imran - shoulder injury , Malik batting like a number eleven , Ijaz as bowler , Mushy and Wasim both struggling , Inzi in really bad shape. There was n't one guy who was doing anything, ' Aaqib recalls . Once Imran had said his bit before the Australia game--for a nation conceived in blood , not unused to wars , it is hardly surprising such a leonine speech tugs so forcefully on the imagination--Pakistan 's disparate galaxies and stars and planets began to pull together into one universe....After Imran 's talk and the Australia win , the team 's mood totally changed. ' Once qualification was assured , Akram and others went out for a celebratory meal. On return , Akram wrote a note to the taxi driver , signed and dated. It read : Pakistan will win the World Cup . The most uncertain moments came in the semifinal against the home side and overwhelming favourites , New Zealand...It almost cost them when Martin Crowe put together a spectacular innings , helping New Zealand reach 262. Pakistan looked out of the match for a major duration of the chase--their top order was solid , but could n't keep up with the required run-rate--until Inzamam arrived and with him , destiny : it was a literal and metaphorical arrival . The young Multani had pleaded with Imran to drop him from the side on the morning of the match , as much because of illness as his confidence being shot after a poor tournament. 'Imran told him , " Are you mad ? I am telling you to play , so just play , " ' Aaqib recounts . ..So Inzy did play and so was forged his twilight surge , fulfilling Imran 's prophecy that he was a batsman among the best. His form also paralleled his team 's late , successful swell : his 60 off 37 balls won the semi-final and his 42 in the final set it up . Imran again roused his men on the morning of the final , one last time invoking the cornered tiger. He wore the T-shirt to the toss. At 39 , he was older than his English counterpart Graham Gooch by just a few months , but looked fresh , upbeat and honed enough to be his son. In reality , it hardly mattered what Imran said to his men that morning because precisely how conspired the universe was in Pakistan 's favour was on clear , unashamed display through that late March day and night in Melbourne... As Pakistan walked off the field for the presentations , an end was beginning. Unbeknown , this was not a harbinger for a golden age . Where India 's 1983 triumph opened the country 's eyes to one-day cricket , where Australia 's 1987 win began a renaissance , where Sri Lanka 's triumph in 1996 became their graduation to the big league , Pakistan 's win in 1992 heralded only the unravelling of their fragile unity and a cantankerous , ramshackle descent into chaos. It brought to a close a period where Pakistan were as good as they have ever been . Excerpted from the book 'The Unquiet Ones ' with permission from HarperCollins India Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
