1st ODI : England shot out for 234 despite Morgan ton The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jan 16 , 2015 , 01.08PM IST Morgan struck 11 fours and three sixes in his superb knock. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Captain Eoin Morgan struck a superb century to rescue England after a top-order collapse and single-handedly take his side to 234 all out in the opening match of the tri-series on Friday . England decided to bat first at the SCG pitch after winning the toss , but Morgan 's decision backfired as the visiting side slumped to 33 for four in the ninth over. The top half of the England batting line-up were gone for 69 runs in the 16th over . But Morgan , who took over England ODI captaincy recently from Alastair Cook , stood tall amid ruins as he anchored the visiting side 's innings with a 136-ball 121 in the first match of the tri-series , also involving India . Morgan struck 11 fours and three sixes in his superb knock after coming on to bat in the fourth over when his team score was at a precarious 12 for three . Morgan shared a crucial 67-run partnership with wicketkeeper Jos Butler ( 28 ) for the sixth wicket to revive the innings. He stitched another 56-run partnership with Chris Jordan ( 17 ) for the eighth wicket before he was the ninth England batsman to depart in the 48th over . None of the other England batsmen could make any substantial contribution with Butler ( 28 ) being the second highest scorer . Earlier , Australian pacer Mitchell Starc extracted swing from the SCG pitch and picked up two wickets in his first three deliveries. He got opener Ian Bell from the first ball of the innings and then dismissed one-down James Taylor for a duck a delivery later as England lost two wickets without opening their account . England then lost wickets at regular intervals with Starc claiming two more scalps later -- that of Morgan and tailender Steven Finn ( 0 ) -- while his pace colleague James Faulkner chipped in with three wickets for 47 runs. Pat Cummins , Glenn Maxwell and Xavier Doherty took a wicket each . Starc got the right line and length in his first ball as Bell attempted to defend the ball that swung in and hit his right leg plumb in front of the stumps . Taylor did not trouble the scorer as he tried to clip another inswinging delivery on the leg side but was beaten by the movement and struck in front of leg stump . Promising England batsman Joe Root also did not last long as he fell to Cummins in the fourth over for five , edging a length ball straight to Shane Watson at first slip . Opener Moeen Ali ( 22 ) showed some promise and looked like settling down along with Morgan to rescue the England innings. Ali hit a huge six off Starc in the seventh over , clipping the ball off his pads to the wide long on boundary . But he was out two overs later off the bowling of Faulkner with Glenn Maxwell taking an easy catch in the deep after the batsman drove the delivery on the up . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
