1st Test : Australia openers survive after India dismissed for 444 The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Dec 12 , 2014 , 08.07AM IST Australian opening batsman Chris Rogers watches as the ball flies between Wriddhiman Saha during the fourth day of 1st Test in Adelaide. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 Australia 's opening batsmen Chris Rogers and David Warner survived to lunch to push Australia 's second innings lead to 105 runs after India were bowled out for 444 early on day four of the first Test in Adelaide on Friday . India resumed on 369/5 but lost their last five wickets for the addition of only 75 runs , with Australia spinner Nathan Lyon capturing 5-134 . Rogers ( 19 not out ) and Warner ( 13 not out ) pushed Australia to 32/0 at the break and the lefthanders were mostly comfortable in the 10 overs they faced on Adelaide Oval 's largely benign wicket . Rogers , however , was lucky to escape with wicket intact after a big shout for lbw and a nick just wide of a slip in the final over off part-time spinner Murali Vijay . Though the deteriorating wicket was showing a bit more variation , the Australians will feel confident of building a total to push victory beyond reach of the tourists . Wicketkeeper Wriddhiman Saha and Rohit Sharma resumed for India and added 30 runs before Lyon caught the latter off his own bowling for 43 . Peter Siddle dropped Mohammed Shami when the batsman was on nine , spilling the catch a few feet in from the boundary when he slogged Lyon to deep midwicket . Shami went on to lash a valuable 34 before he was caught behind off Siddle , with Shane Watson taking a fine , low catch in the slips to bring the innings to a close . After Siddle 's spilled catch , which had the ball bonk him on the forehead before dribbling to the rope for four , Lyon captured his fourth wicket minutes later . It was somewhat fortuitous , however , when Saha was given out caught behind by Shane Watson at slip , although there appeared to be no edge off the bat . Saha looked miffed at the decision , but India 's rejection of the Decision Review System gave him no recourse to appeal . Lyon grabbed his fifth wicket by dismissing Ishant Sharma for a duck when the paceman gloved a simple catch to Steven Smith at short leg . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
