1st Test : Clarke retires hurt after Warner 's stirring ton The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Dec 9 , 2014 , 11.07AM IST David Warner thrilled the crowd with a stirring century. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Australia captain Michael Clarke retired hurt shortly before tea on day one of the first Test against India on Tuesday , dampening the mood at the Adelaide Oval after opener David Warner had thrilled the crowd with a stirring century . The opening match of the four-Test series was originally scheduled in Brisbane but was delayed and switched to Adelaide to give players time to mourn batsman Phillip Hughes , who died almost two weeks ago after being hit on the back of the head during a domestic match . Clarke , included in the side after racing to be fit from a hamstring strain , was on 60 late in the session when he twisted away from a short ball from Ishant Sharma . Though he tried to stretch out the injury with medical staff , he trudged off the field after a delay of a few minutes with Australia on 206 for two wickets . Steven Smith joined Warner to negotiate the final few overs to the tea-break , as the hosts reached 238 for two . Smith was on 17 , and Warner unbeaten on 131 having marked his fifth ton of the year with a poignant glance at the sky in tribute to fallen team mate Hughes . The swashbuckling Warner tore into India 's hapless paceman from his first ball faced , crunching 14 boundaries on the way to his 100 , including seven in the first four overs . The 28-year-old , who was present when Hughes was fatally injured by a short ball in Sydney , looked to the heavens on reaching 50 with a pull to the fence , and again when he reached 63 , the score Hughes had compiled before being struck down in the Sheffield Shield match . Opener Chris Rogers was reduced to a bystander as Warner ran amok early in the innings , and ultimately a spectator when he drove recklessly at an Ishant delivery , edging the paceman to Shikhar Dhawan at second slip to be out for nine . Shane Watson , batting at three and recalled to the side after missing Australia 's 2-0 series defeat to Pakistan in the United Arab Emirates , was out for 14 after edging Varun Aaron to the same fielder . Clarke came to the crease and the 33-year-old , who played a leading role in supporting Hughes 's family and his team mates , was given a standing ovation as he strode out . Aaron welcomed him with a bouncer first ball and Clarke responded with a few words at the paceman before teaming up with Warner to dominate the middle session before his injury . '13TH MAN' Batsman Virat Kohli was leading India for the first time in a Test match with regular skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni sidelined with a thumb injury . Leg spinner Karn Sharma made his Test debut but struggled to trouble Australia 's batsmen on a flat pitch tailor-made for a big score . On a day of tributes to Hughes , the number 408 was painted on the turf in front of the Sir Donald Bradman Pavilion , recognising the batsman as the 408th player to represent Australia in a Test match . Both teams wore black armbands and Hughes was named an honorary " 13th man " in Australia 's squad . Following a video tribute narrated by iconic Australian commentator Richie Benaud , the crowd stood and applauded for 63 seconds in recognition of Hughes 's final innings . Hughes 's death prompted a debate about the use of the bouncer , but paceman Aaron bowled the first in the fourth over , a sizzling 145 kph delivery that drew applause from the crowd and that Warner did well to avoid . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
