1st Test : De Villiers helps South Africa build huge lead The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jul 19 , 2014 , 03.23PM IST South Africa 's AB de Villiers raises his bat to the crowd after scoring a half-century during the fourth day of the opening Test against Sri Lanka at Galle International Cricket Stadium in Galle. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 GALLE ( Sri Lanka ) : AB de Villiers cracked a breezy half-century as South Africa increased their lead on the fourth day of the first Test against Sri Lanka on Saturday . De Villiers hit six boundaries in his 58-ball 51 and also shared 62 runs with Quinton de Kock ( 36 ) to take South Africa to 206-6 at tea . The Proteas , who made 455-9 declared in their first innings before bowling out the hosts for 292 , were sitting pretty with an overall lead of 369 runs with four wickets in hand . No team has ever scored more than 300 runs in the final innings at Galle . To their credit , the Sri Lankan spinners exploited well the dry and dusty track , accounting for all the wickets that fell in the South African second innings . Off-spinner Dilruwan Perera picked an impressive 4-79 while Rangana Herath took 2-84 . Perera struck early into the second session , claiming the big wicket of Hashim Amla , who is leading South Africa for the first time in Test cricket . Amla ( 22 ) mistimed his flick and lobbed the ball to a diving Upul Tharanga , capping a disappointing show with the bat in the game. He had made 11 in his first innings . Faf du Plessis ( 37 ) fell to a turner from Herath that crashed on to his stumps , dislodging the bails . De Villiers frustrated the spinners with his shot-making until his stumps were shattered by Perera close to the tea break . De Kock fell on the last ball before the break , lobbing an easy return catch to Perera . Earlier , South Africa started off cautiously against a bowling attack that relied heavily on spin in the absence of injured frontline seamer Shaminda Eranga . Opener Dean Elgar , who made 103 in the first innings , was the first batsman to fall as he tried to go for an ambitious drive off Herath but nicked it behind to wicketkeeper Dinesh Chandimal . Alviro Petersen ( 32 ) was given caught behind off Perera but the batsman asked for a review. TV replays remained inconclusive and in the end the decision of on-field umpire was upheld. The batsman walked off the field , shaking his head in disappointment . South Africa had wrapped up the Sri Lankan innings in the fifth over of the day with paceman Morne Morkel ( 3-49 ) sending back overnight batsman Herath for 19 . The second and final Test will be played in Colombo from July 24-28 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
