1st Test : India take late wickets after Warner sparkles The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Dec 9 , 2014 , 01.50PM IST Both teams wore black armbands and Hughes was named an honorary " 13th man " in Australia 's squad. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : David Warner paid moving tribute to Phillip Hughes in compiling a brilliant century , but Australia 's joy was tempered with another injury to captain Michael Clarke on an emotional opening day of the first Test against India on Tuesday . Warner 's sparkling 145 from 163 balls got the hosts off to a flying start at a sun-drenched Adelaide Oval , and though India captured a flurry of late wickets , Steven Smith added an unbeaten 72 after tea to push Australia to 354/6 at stumps . A day that began solemnly with a slew of tributes to Hughes ended with grave concerns over the fitness of Clarke , who retired hurt on 60 with a lower back injury . Having raced to be fit for the match after suffering a third hamstring strain in three months , Clarke 's new injury will raise questions over his management , and whether sentimentality trumped sense in his selection for the match . Batsman Virat Kohli , who replaced the injured Mahendra Singh Dhoni as India captain , endured a tough debut in charge of the Test team , losing the all-important toss and watching his bowlers toil for much of the day on a flat wicket . Warner 's dismissal , caught in the deep after slogging debutant leg spinner Karn Sharma , saw Smith and all-rounder Mitchell Marsh add another 87 runs before the latter was caught in the slips off the bowling of paceman Varun Aaron . Nightwatchman Nathan Lyon was bowled for three by Mohammed Shami before wicketkeeper Brad Haddin was caught behind for a duck , nicking at the paceman , bringing the day to a close . Warner 's day was memorable as he took to the Indian pacemen with gusto , clubbing a four off the first ball and crunching another 18 for the day . The pugnacious 28-year-old was fielding when Hughes was struck down by a short ball in a domestic match that ultimately cost his life and he paid tribute to his former team mate on several milestones during the innings . CLARKE AGONY He raised his bat and head to the sky after reaching 50 and 63 runs , Hughes ' final score for South Australia , and did so again after leaping for joy upon bringing up his century with a single . Clarke had moved serenely to 60 in tandem with Warner before he twisted to avoid a short ball from Ishant Sharma and immediately lay down to stretch . Minutes later he was trudging off with medical staff , casting a pall over the crowd of more than 25,000 . The opening match of the four-Test series was originally scheduled in Brisbane but was delayed and switched to Adelaide to give players time to mourn batsman Hughes . On a day of tributes to Hughes , the number 408 was painted on the turf in front of the Sir Donald Bradman Pavilion , recognising the batsman as the 408th player to represent Australia in a Test match . Both teams wore black armbands and Hughes was named an honorary " 13th man " in Australia 's squad . Following a video tribute narrated by iconic Australian commentator Richie Benaud , the crowd stood and applauded for 63 seconds in recognition of Hughes 's final innings . Hughes 's death prompted a debate about the use of the bouncer , but paceman Aaron bowled the first in the fourth over , a sizzling 145 kph delivery that drew applause from the crowd and that Warner did well to avoid . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
