1st Test : Smith nears ton as Clarke bats on in pain The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Dec 10 , 2014 , 08.26AM IST Clarke returned to the crease and batted clearly in discomfort , but he provided dependable support for Smith. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Steve Smith 's push for a century was thwarted by rain as captain Michael Clarke made a courageous return to the crease on the second day of the opening Test against India on Wednesday . Rain forced an early lunch at the Adelaide Oval with Smith on 98 and Clarke a defiant 85 not out with the home side moving their score along to 405 without further loss from an overnight 354 for six . Smith was vying for his fifth Test century and thrived alongside his skipper , who was battling a significant lower back injury . Clarke returned to the crease at the outset of day two and batted clearly in discomfort , but he provided dependable support for Smith . Clarke , who needed injections to resume his innings after retiring hurt on the opening day , grimaced and yelped in pain as he twisted his torso to play some shots . His running between the wickets was constrained , but he and Smith kept the scoreboard ticking over with a handful of sweetly-timed boundaries . The Australian skipper has earned a reputation for courageous displays. Last March he batted on with a fractured left shoulder in an unbeaten 161 to help his team to a 2-1 series victory over South Africa in Cape Town . Clarke only played in the Adelaide Test after passing a fitness test for recurring hamstring trouble . Team physio Alex Kountouris said he was struggling with a " significant back injury. " " This is his right lower back. This is his old injury , what he 's had in the past. I do n't think it 's directly related to his hamstring , because it 's the other side , " Kountouris said before the start of Wednesday 's play . " We believe it 's related to his old disc injuries. With that comes a lot of muscle spasms and other things that cause pain. " The morning session took place under cloudy skies with the ground 's floodlights switched on . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
