1st Test : South Africa 268/5 at stumps on Day 1 The author has posted comments on this article AP | Jul 16 , 2014 , 05.23PM IST South Africa 's Dean Elgar raises his bat and helmet in celebration after scoring a century against Sri Lanka during Day 1 of the 1st Test in Galle. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 GALLE ( Sri Lanka ) : Opener Dean Elgar notched a superb 103 Wednesday as South Africa reached 268-5 on the opening day of the first Test against Sri Lanka . Elgar dominated both pace and spin bowling to smash 11 fours and three sixes during his 187-ball knock and was supported well by Faf du Plessis , who struck a fine 80 coming in at No.3 . Elgar batted just over two sessions and hit three sixes and 11 fours to bring up his second Test century . However , the hosts hit back in the final session with four wickets as South Africa suffered a middle-order slump . At stumps , wicketkeeper Quinton de Kock was batting on 17 and Dale Steyn was yet to score . The left-handed Elgar seized the early initiative with free strokes against the seam bowlers and good use of the feet against spinners . Elgar and de Plessis were not afraid to go for the shots and also rotated the strike well in what was the fourth century partnership between them . The pair added 125 runs for the second wicket after Elgar and Alviro Petersen had put on 70 in their opening stand . Elgar got to the three-figure mark with a six to long-on off off-spinner Dilruwan Perera to move from 96 to 102 after batting cautiously earlier in the 90s. He was caught behind swishing at a delivery from seam bowler Suranga Lakmal , who bagged two wickets in the last session . South Africa had looked set to end the day in a better position but lost new captain Hashim Amla for 11 with Du Plessis and A.B. de Villiers ( 21 ) also following him as South Africa slipped from 195-1 to 266-5 . Du Plessis was well set , striking five fours and a six but was caught at short leg off off-spinner Dilruwan Perera to give Sri Lanka the window of opportunity . Earlier , Petersen was trapped lbw by Perera with a straight delivery after striking four fours off 46 deliveries. Petersen asked for a review , but replays showed the ball would have hit leg stump . This is the first Test for South Africa after the retirement of Graeme Smith. Amla became only the second non-white captain of South Africa after Ashwell Prince , and the first to be appointed as permanent skipper . South Africa won a preceding one-day series 2-1 under de Villiers , who is playing in this match as a specialist batsman due to a hamstring injury with de Kock to keep wickets . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
