1st Test : Steve Smith raises ton as rain disrupts The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Dec 10 , 2014 , 09.34AM IST Smith clipped the first ball after lunch for two to bring up his hundred , touching off more tributes to Hughes. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Steve Smith raised his fifth Test century and saluted his fallen Australia team-mate Phillip Hughes in between frustrating rain delays on the second day of the opening Test against India on Wednesday . Smith clipped the first ball after lunch for two to bring up his hundred , touching off more tributes to Hughes who was fatally struck by a bouncer in a domestic game late last month . He jogged away from the wicket and pointed towards the '408 ' -- Hughes 's Test cap number -- painted on the playing surface and then raised his bat and looked skywards in tribute to the batsman . Smith then shared another long hug with batting partner Michael Clarke , who was also at the wicket when David Warner reached his century on day one . The emotion continued when the crowd broke out into applause when the Australian total reached 408 . When rain forced the players from the field for a second time on day two , the home side were 423 for six with Smith unbeaten on 103 and Clarke nearing his 28th Test century on 98 . Clarke returned to the crease at the outset of day two and batted clearly in discomfort , but he provided dependable support for Smith . Clarke , who needed injections to resume his innings after retiring hurt with a bad back on the opening day , grimaced and yelped in pain as he twisted his torso to play some shots . His running between the wickets was constrained , but he and Smith kept the scoreboard ticking over with a handful of sweetly-timed boundaries . The Australian skipper has earned a reputation for courageous displays. Last March he batted on with a fractured left shoulder in an unbeaten 161 to help his team to a 2-1 series victory over South Africa in Cape Town . Clarke only played in the Adelaide Test after passing a fitness test for recurring hamstring trouble . Team physio Alex Kountouris said he was struggling with a " significant back injury. " " This is his right lower back. This is his old injury , what he 's had in the past. I do n't think it 's directly related to his hamstring , because it 's the other side , " Kountouris said before the start of Wednesday 's play . " We believe it 's related to his old disc injuries. With that comes a lot of muscle spasms and other things that cause pain. " The morning session took place under cloudy skies with the ground 's floodlights switched on . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
