1st Test : Warner frustrates India as Australia push lead The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Dec 12 , 2014 , 10.46AM IST Australia 's David Warner plays a shot during the fourth day of the 1st Test against India in Adelaide. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 Opening batsman David Warner added a half-century to his first innings ton as Australia pushed their lead to 212 runs at tea on day four of the first Test after bowling India out for 444 in the morning on Friday . Chris Rogers fell for 21 when his ill-struck sweep was caught at midwicket off the bowling of legspinner Karn Sharma , but Warner ( 69 not out ) and Shane Watson ( 33 not out ) combined for 101 runs to push Australia to 139/1 . A match that had proceeded quietly suddenly became tetchy as paceman Varun Aaron bowled Warner for 66 , giving the opener a big send-off and then becoming crestfallen when the wicket was cancelled because he had overstepped his mark . Warner walked back to the crease and fired some choice of words of his own at Aaron , prompting India opener Shikhar Dhawan to come remonstrate . More India players rushed to the middle to express their opinion , causing umpires Marais Erasmus and Ian Gould to intervene and keep them apart from Australia 's batsmen . Though the deteriorating wicket was showing a bit more variation , the Australians appeared comfortable for the most part and will be confident of pushing on in the final session to put victory beyond reach of the tourists . Australia spinner Nathan Lyon finished with 5-134 , capturing three wickets in the morning as India , who resumed on 369/5 lost their last five wickets for just 45 runs . Tail-ender Mohammed Shami lashed a valuable 34 after being dropped on nine by Peter Siddle near the boundary , but was caught behind off the same bowler to bring India 's innings to a close . Lyon had his fourth wicket when wicketkeeper Wriddhiman Saha was given out caught behind by Shane Watson at slip , although there appeared to be no edge off the bat . Saha looked miffed at the decision , but India 's rejection of the Decision Review System gave him no recourse to appeal . Lyon grabbed his fifth wicket by dismissing Ishant Sharma for a duck when the paceman gloved a simple catch to Steven Smith at short leg . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
