2003 WC match against Pakistan best game of my life : Sachin Tendulkar The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 14 , 2015 , 07.20PM IST Sachin Tendulkar said that in all the five India-Pakistan World Cup matches , there has been a tremendous kind of energy inside the stadium. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : A veteran of six World Cups , cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar on Saturday said the semifinal against Pakistan in 2011 was the most high-pressure game he has played but his best match remains the clash with the arch-rivals in 2003 edition of the marquee tournament . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " It ( Mohali World Cup semifinal 2011 ) was definitely the most high-pressured game of my life. It was a different kind of a feeling , hard to explain what it is , " said Tendulkar , whose 85-run knock set up India 's 29-run win . Talking about the 2003 World Cup match against Pakistan , Tendulkar said : " I do n't think there was a better World Cup match that I have been a part of. " With India opening their campaign against Pakistan in Adelaide on Sunday , the euphoria and excitement surrounding the match has reached a crescendo and Tendulkar said it is a different feeling playing the arch-rivals . " The interest levels of people start a year before the start of the tournament. People tell us that this is a match we need to win , whatever happens later , we do not care... fortunately we do not think that way , " Tendulkar told Headlines Today . Sharing his experiences , Tendulkar said that in all the five India-Pakistan World Cup matches , there has been a tremendous kind of energy inside the stadium . " The post-match celebrations , talking to all my family members and friends... the whole of India was celebrating that match , " said Tendulkar , who has won three Man of the Match awards against Pakistan . Talking about his mouth-watering clash with Shoaib Akhtar during the 2003 World Cup match , where he had blasted 18 runs off the pacer 's over , Tendulkar said : " We knew that we had won the first round against Pakistan and we had put them on the backfoot. " Asked about that particular shot where he had sent Akhtar soaring over backward point for a six , Tendulkar said that it was an instinctive shot . " That ball was released at 150 kms and a batsman does not have enough time to plan and play a shot like that , " said Tendulkar , who had scored 98 to help India chase down the target in 45.4 overs . " Hundreds do n't matter. What matters is that India wins. " About how he handled the pressure of a India-Pakistan match , Tendulkar said : " I try and remain in my room before the game. In my own space and with my own thoughts ... I have a habit of packing my bag in advance. I do not do this at the last minute. Doing all this is all part of the preparation. " Tendulkar said he keeps listening to music. " It is all sorts of music - Kishore Kumar , Lata Mangeshkar , Asha Bhosle , Mohammed Rafi to U-2 , Dire Straits ... Sonu Nigam , " he added . Talking about personal relations with the Pakistani players , the ace batsman said : " We are not enemies off the field. When we play each other , we compete , we want to win. It does not matter that Wasim ( Akram ) is a friend or not . " I think it is the same thought process in their dressing room as it is in ours. " We respect each other as individuals off the field. " Tendulkar had made his Test debut as a 16-year-old in 1989 against Pakistan in Karachi , facing the fearsome bowling attack of Imran Khan , Wasim Akram and Waqar Younis . " I had n't faced that kind of bowling , that kind of pace , that kind of hostility , that kind of skill to bowl late reverse swing , " said Tendulkar . " After my first Test , I thought it was too tough for me. I spent a lot of time talking to my seniors , Chandu Borde , Ravi Shastri and they advised me that I need not rush. You need to give yourself time . " In the next innings , I realized that I could deal with it. But then Waqar hit me on my nose and in those days I did not wear a helmet with a grill. Post that I started wearing a grill. But I did not want to leave the battlefield as that would have put on tremendous pressure on us , " he added . Narrating an interesting anecdote , Tendulkar said : " Qadir challenged me because I hit Mushtaq ( Ahmed ) for a couple of sixes and a boundary. Qadir said , 'bacchon ko kyun mar raha hai ( Why are you smashing runs off children ) . Hit me , I will bowl to you. And in the following over , I hit 27 or so runs on Qadir 's bowling. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
