2015 ODI World Cup : Big test for IPL stars Down Under The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Jan 25 , 2015 , 09.19AM IST The nature of the pitches wo n't exactly be suitable for spinners like Jadeja , Axar or Narine , who have been such huge successes in IPL. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 India 's premier T20 league has created quite a few heroes who have gone on to play prominent roles for their national sides. Can they adapt to the pitches , pressure and format in Australia and New Zealand ? Every time an Indian team struggles in Test cricket away from home , there 's invariably a finger of accusation pointed towards the big , bad Indian Premier League. There 's some truth to the story , too , since the skill-set required to excel in IPL is significantly different to those needed to survive in the longer version. Young players growing up with the ambition of fitting into the 20-over format often find it difficult to adjust to the necessities . But ODIs are much closer to T20s in terms of skill and when India won the 2011 World Cup in the subcontinent , skipper MS Dhoni was prompt to point out that IPL had played its part in developing the side. He argued that the fear of chasing down any target had come down significantly - after all , nine runs an over is par for the course in the slam-bang version. Similarly , slow bowlers who learn to push in four quick overs amidst all the carnage with the bat find it easy to translate that success on the tracks in India , Bangladesh and Sri Lanka in the 50-over format . But things are a bit different this time around. The tournament will be played on pitches which will have bounce and pace , unlike those in the subcontinent. The nature of the pitches wo n't exactly be suitable for spinners like Ravindra Jadeja , Axar Patel or Sunil Narine , who have been such huge successes in IPL . The Indian team , of course , has gambled with Jadeja , despite the left-arm all-rounder being unfit in the run-up to the tournament. Dhoni believes that Jadeja will do the job with the ball that Yuvraj Singh did so successfully in the last World Cup. It 's easier said than done , though , and that 's true for Jadeja 's back-up Axar as well. The Kings XI all-rounder found out very quickly in the first two games of the tri-series that batting in Australia is a completely different kettle of fish.Unless pushed to the brink , it 's unlikely that Axar , who has already got a couple of ducks , will be asked to bat as high as No. 7 , something that he does so effectively for Kings XI . Much like India , the success of the West Indies team is heavily dependent on IPL stars. They have of course overlooked the best of the lot - Dwayne Bravo and Kieron Pollard - but Narine remains a key component. Before the 2012 IPL , not too many people knew about the right-arm mystery spinner , but since then he has become a household name. It 's his bag of tricks in a four-over spell , generally broken down into one in the beginning of the innings , two in the middle , and one in the end , that mesmerizes batsmen . But in the World Cup , it 's about 10 overs and batsmen get the time to read him. Moreover , he was barred from bowling in the Champions League final due to suspect action , and one has to see if his doosra carries the same venom in the 50-over format with a re-modelled action . Dwayne Smith , another IPL superhero , too may find it tough to be as consistent as he is for Chennai Super Kings up the order. That , however , wo n't be the case for David Miller. The South African middle-order batsman , a great success for Kings XI Punjab in the last two editions , is good at playing in all conditions. Pace and bounce are nothing new to him and at No. 6 , he will be a huge force for South Africa , just as his Kings XI teammate Glenn Maxwell be for Australia . The Oz team management is building on Maxwell 's T20 skills and making him bat at No. 6 in the team , which means the swashbuckler will get about 15 overs to showcase his skills. Conditions are not a problem for him and Maxwell can truly set the World Cup stage alight . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
