2nd ODI : Can India square it up at Kotla ? The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Oct 11 , 2014 , 12.19PM IST India unexpectedly have a fight on their hands in this series. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Umesh Yadav bowled his heart out in between lengthy deliberations with coach Duncan Fletcher as Mohammed Shami opted to skip India 's nets sessions on Friday . It was not Shami , though , but another absentee pacer at nets who thrust himself back into the spotlight on the eve of the second ODI against West Indies : Ishant Sharma , who last played an ODI in January , has come in as replacement for Mohit Sharma , who has a shin injury . The decision is debatable , at best , since Ishant 's one-day career has had more starts and stops than the Delhi traffic. More than any new-found confidence in Ishant 's limited-overs skills following his success in the Tests in England , the move is an indication of the think tank 's need for some experience in the bowling ranks . Handed their fourth-biggest ODI defeat in terms of runs in Kochi , that too at the hands of a team grappling with payment issues and till recently considered pleasantly palatable fodder for India 's batsmen , India unexpectedly have a fight on their hands in this series . With the bowlers having leaked 81 runs in the last 10 overs in Kochi , and 52 in the Batting Powerplay , Mohit 's absence further hampers skipper Dhoni . What Ishant brings to the table is more pace , more experience and hopefully some wicket-taking ability , even though his figures do n't inspire confidence - the Delhi pacer only has eight wickets in seven ODIs in the past year , at an economy rate of 6.87 . The numbers also do n't reveal how wayward he can be in the limited-overs format. It 's a penchant which has often cost him his place in the past. With India needing more teeth at the death , it does n't help that in Mohali in October 2013 Ishant was hit for 30 runs in the 48th over by James Faulkner . Having missed the Asia Cup , the Bangladesh tour and the ODIs in England , Ishant 's accidental inclusion , extra nip and ability to hit the deck is clearly thinking ahead to the World Cup in Australia and New Zealand . But if he plays , what sort of signal will it send to Umesh Yadav ? And of what use is a senior bowler if he merely warms the bench ? It 's a Hobson 's choice for the team management but luckily India are playing a visiting team which seems taken aback by its own commanding show in Kochi . " We 've set a standard. That was the best all-round game we 've played in a long time , " said Windies skipper Dwayne Bravo . " Let 's see if we can maintain it. The challenge is to see if we can come close to replicating that performance. " Now that 's an outlook which should please India 's struggling batsmen on a purportedly run friendly Kotla track . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
