2nd ODI : England elect to field against India The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Aug 27 , 2014 , 03.03PM IST England captain Alastair Cook won the toss and elected to field against India in the second one-day international. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CARDIFF ( United Kingdom ) : England captain Alastair Cook won the toss and elected to field against India in the second one-day international at Cardiff on Wednesday . As expected , England gave an ODI debut to Alex Hales , who would have played in Bristol on Monday had the first of this five-match series not been washed out . Hard-hitting Nottinghamshire opener Hales has appeared in 32 Twenty20s for England and scored his country 's first century in cricket 's shortest format when he made 116 not out from 64 balls against Sri Lanka at the World Twenty20 in March . The 25-year-old , who will partner Cook at the top of the order , has been tipped as the man to revive the team 's often staid approach with the bat in the opening overs of a one-day game . India , the 50-over world champions , were looking to bounce back following their 3-1 defeat by England in the recent Test series . Last year , India beat England in the final of the 50-over Champions Trophy at Edgbaston , although rain reduced that match to a 20 overs per side contest . This match marks the start of both teams lead-in to next year 's one-day World Cup in Australia and New Zealand . Teams : England : Alastair Cook ( capt ) , Alex Hales , Ian Bell , Joe Root , Eoin Morgan , Jos Buttler ( wkt ) , Ben Stokes , Chris Woakes , Chris Jordan , James Tredwell , James Anderson India : Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Suresh Raina , Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , MS Dhoni ( capt/wkt ) , Ravindra Jadeja , Ravichandran Ashwin , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Mohammed Shami , Mohit Sharma Umpires : Paul Reiffel ( AUS ) and Richard Illingworth ( ENG ) TV umpire : Tim Robinson ( ENG ) Match referee : Ranjan Madugalle ( SRI ) Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
