2nd ODI : India aim for a restart against England The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Aug 27 , 2014 , 12.06PM IST Nothing will give Dhoni 's men respite apart from winning the ODIs. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CARDIFF : There is a good chance of the clouds making way for a clear sky in the scenic Welsh capital on Wednesday where the second one-dayer between England and India is scheduled . The same can not be said though about the clouds hovering over Mahendra Singh Dhoni and his young team . With their spirits and confidence shaken after the humbling loss in the Test series and numerous off-field distractions thanks to the BCCI introducing a new coaching structure and the various contradictory statements being issued by all and sundry about it , India will look at this as their first opportunity to regain composure post the Test win at Lord 's which now seems like last year . Rain had washed away the first match in Bristol robbing the team the chance to zero in on candidates for the World Cup in Australia and New Zealand . Nothing will give Dhoni 's Devils respite apart from winning the ODIs. Much has been talked about Dhoni 's ability and intellect as a Test cricketer. But it is the 50-over format in which the highly successful skipper made his mark as a leader and built his reputation as one of the game 's most feared finishers. If he has to maintain that aura , Dhoni will have to be on his toes at the Sophia Gardens on Wednesday . Team India had light practice on the eve of the game. The young Kerala batsman Sanju Samson stayed away from action in the nets , indicating that he was some distance away from making a debut any time soon . However , leggie Karn Sharma looked a lot busier and bowled and batted in the nets. The Railways all-rounder looks set to play and be the third spinner with R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja . The rest of the team is likely to see the same set of players who helped India script a glorious win in the Champions Trophy. Ironically , the journey towards that triumph began at this venue . England did well to leave their guests in tatters when the Tests were on. The change in format though will not help catapult them into a similar sphere of dominance thanks to their own share of internal troubles . Skipper Alastair Cook , however , wo n't be under the same scrutiny and pressure as his Indian counterpart . Indian team avoids media ahead of second one-dayer CARDIFF : Hit by controversies right through their troubled England tour , the Indian team management on Tuesday sought to steer clear of the media by not sending any player for the mandatory pre-match press conference ahead of the second ODI against the hosts . Indian skipper MS Dhoni chose to skip the customary pre-match press conference on Tuesday . The team management also chose not to depute any player to face the media , a move which could have been taken to avoid any further controversy . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
