2nd ODI : India trip West Indies on tricky Kotla The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Oct 12 , 2014 , 12.34PM IST Dhoni was the late-order aggressor and Kohli finally managed to get some runs under his belt. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The villain of Kochi became the hero of Kotla as Amit Mishra redeemed himself with a commanding performance and turned the second one-dayer India 's way on Saturday . India , having scored 263/7 in their first innings , appeared in danger of letting the match slip when Mishra ( 10-2-40-2 ) , guilty of conceding one too many in the first game , got Kieron Pollard to miscue a slog sweep in the 29th over . With the brilliant Dwayne Smith at the other end , Pollard had exhibited uncharacteristic patience in a second-wicket partnership which was slowly yet surely shutting India out of the game. Yet that one wicket exposed old West Indies frailties as Mishra kept tightening his stranglehold . Roles were reversed as Marlon Samuels , who engineered a West Indies win in Kochi and hit Mishra for 40 runs off 28 balls , struggled to score . Here , Mishra bowled successive maidens to the batsman , who eventually lost his wicket to Umesh Yadav after a 38-ball 16 which completely derailed the Windies innings . Mishra was n't done yet , coming back to remove Ramdin with the Windies needing 75 from 59 , and any remaining semblance of a fight promptly deserted Dwayne Bravo 's men . Ravindra Jadeja cashed in gleefully even as dew made gripping the ball tough. The collapse , with the Windies sinking from 170/2 to 215 all out , showcased the mental frailties of a side which has consistently struggled to marry flair with grit . Mishra was n't the only one to delight India with the ball , pacer Mohammed Shami ( 9.3-0-36-4 ) being the other hero of the day and the person who denied Smith a well-deserved century . The eventual 48-run defeat would have left the Windies gutted , since for large parts of the game their skipper Dwayne Bravo 's ingenuity ensured they were consistently out planning and outsmarting India . The decision to open with Darren Bravo , the move up the order for Pollard , the slower ones which strangled India in the last 15 overs of their innings all seemed well-thought out strategies which India had failed to account for . Yet , the moves which mattered most in the end came from India , like choosing to play Mishra again and demoting Virat Kohli ( 62 ; 78b , 5x4 ) , who finally managed to get some runs under his belt . Two days after former India captain Sunil Gavaskar suggested that Kohli should drop down from his usual No. 3 slot , the Indian team management duly obliged after Dhoni won the toss , sending Ambati Rayudu in ahead of the struggling Kohli on an often-tricky , often-sluggish Kotla surface which made batting seem difficult at times . Kohli responded by anchoring the innings at No. 4 and stitching together a 105-run partnership off 115 balls with a more ebullient Suresh Raina ( 62 off 60 ; 5x4 , 2x6 ) , enabling the team to shake off an early-innings stupor against some canny West Indies bowling . As usual MS Dhoni ( 51 not out off 40b , 5x4 , 1x6 ) was the late-order aggressor who made all the difference to the eventual score , though the Windies bowlers did a good job of keeping things quiet in the end overs . It did n't matter , though , as their batsmen gave up the ghost when Mishra threatened to turn the tide . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
