2nd ODI : Perera shatters Pakistan with bat and ball The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Aug 26 , 2014 , 10.59PM IST Sri Lanka 's Thisara Perera celebrates after taking the wicket of Pakistan 's Fawad Alam ( unseen ) during their second ODI match in Hambantota. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 HAMBANTOTA ( Sri Lanka ) : Thisara Perera smashed 65 off 36 balls and then grabbed three wickets as Sri Lanka thumped Pakistan by 77 runs in the second one-dayer on Tuesday to level the three-match series 1-1 . Sri Lanka recovered from 194-6 to post a commanding 310-9 in their 50 overs after electing to bat , before dismissing Pakistan for 233 in 43.5 overs in the day-night match in Hambantota . Pakistan had won the first match at the same venue by four wickets last week. The decider will be played in Dambulla on Saturday . A second-wicket stand of 96 between Ahmed Shehzad ( 56 ) and Mohammad Hafeez ( 62 ) lifted Pakistan to 114-1 by the 18th over before nine wickets fell for the addition of 119 runs . Hafeez , who had taken three wickets in Sri Lanka 's innings , appeared in good batting form with 11 boundaries when he was leg-before to spinner Seekkuge Prasanna . Umar Akmal was caught behind off Tillakaratne Dilshan for one and Shehzad became leg-spinner Prasanna 's second victim through a smart catch by veteran wicket-keeper Kumar Sangakkara . Left-arm spinner Rangana Herath removed skipper Misbah-ul Haq ( 36 ) and Sohaib Maqsood ( nine ) , before Perera ensured a quick finish to the innings by taking the next three wickets . Earlier , Sri Lanka were reduced to 62-3 when skipper Angelo Mathews ( 93 ) and Mahela Jayawardene ( 67 ) retrieved the situation by adding 122 for the fourth wicket . The dismissal of Jayawardene in the 34th over -- the first of three wickets in as many overs by Hafeez -- saw Sri Lanka collapse from 184-3 to 194-6 . Perera helped Mathews add 87 off 57 balls for the seventh wicket before the captain holed out to mid-wicket against Wahab Riaz seven runs short of a century . Perera smashed five boundaries and four sixes in his whirlwind innings as the hosts plundered 101 runs in the last 10 overs . Hafeez finished with three for 39 from 10 economical overs , while Riaz took four for 65 . Hafeez stepped in for the prolific Saeed Ajmal , who was yet to return from Australia , where he underwent tests on his bowling action after being reported by the umpires during the preceding Test series . Pakistan , hoping to win the one-day leg after they lost the Tests 2-0 , were also without frontline batsman Younis Khan , who returned home following a death in the family . Sharjeel Khan replaced Younis , while Sri Lanka dropped batsman Dinesh Chandimal to play Prasanna . The match was originally slated to be played in Colombo on Wednesday , but heavy rains in the Sri Lankan capital forced officials to change the venue and advance the game by a day . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
