2nd ODI : Raina , Kohli smash fifties as India post 263/7 The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Oct 11 , 2014 , 06.57PM IST Virat Kohli 's 62-run knock was his first ODI fifty since scoring a century against Bangladesh in February this year. His knock came off 78 balls with five shots to the fence. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Suresh Raina hit a sparkling 62 while Virat Kohli returned to form with his first half-century in eight months as India posted a competitive 263 for seven against the West Indies in the second cricket one-day international on Sunday . Raina carried his splendid T20 form into the match and Kohli regained his lost touch at his home ground as the two players added 105 runs for the fourth wicket after a sedate start by India . Skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni also contributed in India 's total with his unbeaten 51 off 40 balls. In his trademark style , Dhoni hit a six and a four off paceman Jerome Taylor to complete his 56th half-century in the last over of the innings . Ravindra Jadeja ( 6 ) failed but Bhuvneshwar Kumar ( 18 ) added some quick runs . Raina batted like as if an artist was on work and struck the ball elegantly , effortlessly. His drives , late cuts and one inside-out six off paceman Ravi Rampaul were a treat to watch after India elected to bat . Raina 's assuring presence at one end not only pulled India out of the slump but it also gave Kohli a chance to arrest his slide as the Delhi lad could play freely without having to worry about run-rate. Kohli struggled in the entire England tour , where he could score only one fifty and that too at the tour-ending T20 match . While Raina scored at a good pace , Kohli was patient in his approach , going for singles and hitting the odd boundary in between . The stand was broken when Raina miscued a shot off Jerome Taylor and the edge flew to Kieron Pollard at mid-off. Raina 's 62 came off 60 balls with five fours and two sixes . Kohli 's 62-run knock was his first ODI fifty since scoring a century against Bangladesh in February this year. His knock came off 78 balls with five shots to the fence . Before the two joined hands , India were struggling at 74 for three inside 20 overs as the visitors strangled the Indian batting with some courageous effort , especially their pace duo of Rampaul and Taylor . Taylor was the pick of the bowlers for the visitors as he took three wickets for 54 runs . At the start , Rampaul struggled with his line but generated some good pace , which troubled the Indians. Taylor provided the visitors breakthrough , going through the gates of Shikhar Dhawan ( 1 ) , who played across the line and missed it completely to see his stumps shattered . Rayudu was sent ahead of Kohli and the Baroda batsmen started off in tremendous fashion with two boundaries off Rampaul. He guided one to third man and then drove the ball elegantly through covers . However , the Windies bowlers kept the Indians in tight leash as Rampaul and Taylor bowled well in tandem. Rampaul was excellent with his pace while Taylor was terrific with his line and length. The boundaries were far and few as the first 10 overs fetched India only 37 runs . Darren Sammy then dismissed Rahane , who drove straight to Dwayne Bravo at covers. It was a soft dismissal as the slow ball tricked Rahane and he failed to keep the ball down . Taylor , who had given away just five runs in his first five overs , was twice dispatched for boundaries by Kohli. Both the shots were on-drives . Spinner Sulieman Benn dealt India another blow when he induced an edge from Rayudu ( 32 ) and Darren Sammy took a smart catch in the first slip . It brought Raina to the crease and the left-hander began in a confident manner. He was striking the ball well even as he was dropped by Bravo off Samuels when on 14. But it was a difficult chance . The diminutive southpaw hit a breathtaking straight lofted drive off Bravo , bringing some excitement to the match , which lacked energy. Kohli was playing the second fiddle beautifully , giving Raina more strike . The duo carried the team to a position from where Dhoni and other could push for a big score . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
