2nd ODI : Raina ton helps India crush England by 133 runs The author has posted comments on this article Aug 27 , 2014 , 10.58PM IST Suresh Raina celebrates after scoring a century during the second one-day international against England at the Glamorgan County Cricket Ground in Cardiff , Wales. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CARDIFF : Suresh Raina smashed his first century outside the sub-continent as India began their one-day campaign on a resounding note when they trounced England by 133 runs in the second ODI to take a 1-0 lead in the five-match series at Sophia Gardens on Wednesday . Put into bat , India , who are looking to put their Test debacle behind them in the limited-overs format , rode Raina 's 75-ball 100 to post a challenging 304 for six in 50 overs . The 144-run fifth-wicket partnership between Raina , who registered his fourth ODI century , and captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni ( 52 ) was the highlight of the Indian innings . Rain forced a delayed start to the England innings and the Duckworth-Lewis method revised the hosts ' target to 295 in 47 overs. The hosts were bundled for 161 in 38.1 overs as Indian bowlers for once made their presence felt in English conditions . England opener Alex Hales ( 40 ) , who was handed his debut cap by skipper Alastair Cook in the morning , was the highest scorer in a disappointing scorecard . The hosts slumped from 54 for no loss to 85 for five and the slide continued with the overcast conditions doing little to save the batting collapse . Left-arm spinner Ravindra Jadeja ( 4-28 ) was India 's leading wicket-taker after medium-pacer Mohammad Shami ( 2-32 ) did the early damage . Off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin ( 2-38 ) took care of the finishing act while new-ball bowler Bhuvneshwar Kumar ( 1-30 ) and Raina ( 1-12 ) also picked up a wicket each . Shami started the rot in his third over by sending back Cook LBW for 19 and cleaning up Ian Bell for 1 . Bhuvneshwar cleaned bowled Joe Root for 4 and Jadeja then turned on the heat to make short work of the England middle and lower-order . The first match of the series was washed off due to persistent rains in Bristol while the focus now shifts to the third ODI at Trent Bridge on Saturday . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
