2nd Test : Australia lose Rogers to hand India initiative at tea The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Dec 18 , 2014 , 11.20AM IST India 's team members walk off the field for a tea break on the second day of the second Test against India at Gabba in Brisbane. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE : India picked up three crucial wickets in the post-lunch session , including that off half-centurion Chris Rogers , as Australia made 121 for three in their first innings at tea on the second day of the second Test on Thursday . Umesh Yadav dismissed Rogers ( 55 runs , 79 balls , 10 fours ) just at the stroke of tea to bring India back into the contest . Australia were 121 for three in 24.5 overs at the break in reply to India 's 408 all out. The hosts currently trail India by 287 runs . Rogers clipped a Yadav ( 2/35 ) delivery to give India skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni a simple catch behind the stumps. The left-arm opener 's dismissal was the last action of the post-lunch session. Australia skipper Steve Smith ( 6 not out ) was the unbeaten batsman at the other end . Rogers had been under some pressure after failing in the Adelaide Test , when he walked out to open the innings with David Warner ( 29 runs , 28 balls , 6 fours ) . For India , Ishant Sharma ( 0-35 ) and Varun Aaron ( 0-46 ) took the new ball but returned wicketless . While Aaron mended his ways from the first Test and displayed much better control of the ball , Ishant proved to be expensive as he went for 29 runs in just three overs . Warner was at his aggressive best as he gave a speedy start to Australia 's innings once again. He struck six fours in his short stay at the wicket and as a result Yadav was brought into the attack in only the seventh over . Playing his first Test since 2012 , Yadav not only bowled the quickest delivery of the match , but also removed the dangerous-looking Warner. The batsman went for a pull but only ended up mistiming the shot , caught at first slip by R Ashwin ( 1/5 ) . Warner 's wicket brought Shane Watson ( 25 runs , 29 balls , 4 fours ) to the crease and he did not let the momentum down scoring at a brisk pace . With Rogers , he added a quick-fire 51 runs for the second wicket. Their 50-run partnership came off only 63 balls in the 19th over . With Rogers and Watson finding it easy against the pacers , Dhoni introduced spin in the 18th over and Ashwin struck in his second over . Ashwin removed Watson when the batsman stepped out in search of a big shot but mistimed it only to find Shikhar Dhawan at mid-on , who took a fine low catch . Rogers then brought up his sixth Test half-century in the 21st over as also the Australian 100-run mark. He faced 73 balls to get there and snapped his run of eight innings without a fifty . With tea round the corner and the match in balance , he had added 23 runs with Smith but got out just prior to the break , handing India the initiative . Earlier , debutant Josh Hazlewood grabbed a fifer as India lost six wickets in the extended morning session to be bowled out for 408 in their first innings at lunch . Hazzlewood returned with impressive figures of 5 for 68 , picking up three of them this morning , as the visitors lost their last six wickets for just 97 runs to be bowled out in 109.4 overs . Play started on time this morning despite seven overs not being bowled on day one , with Ajinkya Rahane ( 81 runs , 132 balls , 8 fours ) and Rohit Sharma ( 32 runs , 55 balls , 3 fours , 1 six ) looking to build on their 50-run partnership . Except Mitchell Marsh ( 1/14 ) , Australia had all their other bowlers back in the field and looked to improve their performance from the third and final session last evening . And they succeeded , particularly Hazlewood as he bowled a nagging off-stump line and moved the second new ball enough to trouble the Indian batsmen . The Indian batters especially found it difficult to tackle Hazzlewood 's outswingers as he picked up all three wickets this morning using that delivery . First Hazzlewood accounted for Rahane , in only the third over of the day , with a beauty of an outswinger. Rahane was struck at the crease and only managed to edge it to wicketkeeper Brad Haddin , who registered his fifth catch of sixth dismissal of the innings . Rahane 's dismissal brought skipper Dhoni ( 33 runs , 53 balls , 4 fours ) at the crease but despite Rohit being set at the other end , runs dried up . Watson ( 1-39 ) then removed Rohit in the 92nd over. The talented Mumbai batsman went for a drive to a wide delivery only to loft it in the air and young Australia captain Smith held a beautiful catch at the second slip , diving low to his right . It brought Ashwin ( 35 runs , 41 balls , 6 fours ) at the crease and together with Dhoni and the duo added 57 runs for the seventh wicket in quick time . Dhoni and Ashwin 's 50-run partnership came off just 54 balls in the 101st just after India reached the 350-mark had in the 96th over . The duo was looking good for a lot more , but Hazlewood had other plans when he returned to the attack in the 103rd over . Ashwin had looked good so far , playing with his usual comfort and solidity , but he received a good outgoing delivery from the debutant bowler and only ended up edging it behind to Watson at first slip . Two overs later , Hazlewood removed Dhoni as well , the batsman looking to leave an inswinging ball only to edge it to Haddin . While India 's 400-mark came up in the 107th over , Nathan Lyon ( 3/105 ) thereafter polished off the tail with two quick wickets. His first victim was Varun Aaron ( 4 ) as substitute fielder Marnus Labuschnage held a stunning catch at forward short leg. It was supposedly the last delivery before lunch but the fall of wicket extended the session by half an hour . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
