2nd Test : England opt to bowl against India The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Jul 17 , 2014 , 03.28PM IST " I 'm not worried about James Anderson - he wants his cricket to do the talking , " Cook added. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : England captain Alastair Cook won the toss and chose to bowl in the second Test against India at Lord 's on Thursday . Both sides named unchanged teams from those that drew the first Test at Nottingham , with England once again choosing not to select a specialist spinner after Simon Kerrigan was called into the squad for the second match . England will be looking to take advantage of a green-tinged pitch , a welcome change from the strip used during the first match that came under fierce criticism for its placid nature . " We think there might be a bit in it for the bowlers early on , with all that grass , so we 're pleased to bowl first , " Cook said at the toss . " We looked at our squad but it would have been a tough call to leave anybody out after the way they played at Trent Bridge. " Tensions between the sides remain high following the first Test , following accusations England paceman James Anderson " abused and pushed " spinner Ravindra Jadeja . Both players face International Cricket Council misconduct charges . " I 'm not worried about James Anderson - he wants his cricket to do the talking , " Cook added . India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni said he would have chosen to bowl had he called correctly . " We would have bowled first because the base of the wicket looks soft , which means it will have something in it for the quick bowlers early on. It looks like a good wicket though and the grass will hold it together. " Teams : England : Alastair Cook ( captain ) , Sam Robson , Gary Ballance , Ian Bell , Joe Root , Moeen Ali , Matt Prior , Ben Stokes , Stuart Broad , Liam Plunkett , James Anderson . India : Murali Vijay , Shikhar Dhawan , Cheteshwar Pujara , Virat Kohli , Ravindra Jadeja , Ajinkya Rahane , Mahendra Singh Dhoni ( captain ) , Stuart Binny , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Ishant Sharma , Mohammad Shami . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
