2nd Test : Smith leads Australia 's reply to India 's 408 The author has posted comments on this article AP | Dec 18 , 2014 , 01.56PM IST Australia 's Steve Smith celebrates his half-century during the second day of the second Test against India at Gabba in Brisbane. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE ( Australia ) : Steve Smith continued his unbeaten run with a half century in his first Test match as captain , guiding Australia to 221-4 in reply to India 's 408 before bad light stopped play on Day two of the second Test . Standing in for injured captain Michael Clarke , the 25-year-old Smith followed up his unbeaten innings of 162 and 52 in the first Test win last week with 65 not out on Thursday . Momentum swung around on another sultry day at the Gabba , which finished under stormy skies . Nine wickets fell in the first two sessions after India resumed at a commanding 311-4. The Australians took six wickets for 97 to dismiss India before lunch , with paceman Josh Hazlewood snaring 5-68 on his Test debut and wicketkeeper Brad Haddin equaling an Australian record with six catches . Australia lost three wickets for 121 in the middle session , before putting on 100 for the loss of one wicket after tea. Umesh Yadav was the pick of India 's bowlers , taking 3-48 from 13 overs . " We are in front of the game at this point of time , " said India offspinner Ravi Ashwin , who scored 35 , took a wicket and held two catches in his recall match after missing the first test in Adelaide. " I fancy myself getting them out tomorrow morning - 400 is enough if we can get a couple of wickets tomorrow morning then we 're right in front. " The Australian top order made starts but failed to go on , with David Warner ( 29 ) and Shane Watson ( 25 ) falling to bad shots before Chris Rogers was out on the last ball before tea for 55 , his first test half century since February . Smith and Shaun Marsh , who was recalled in the absence of Clarke , combined for 87 runs in as many minutes to get the hosts within 200 of India before the fourth wicket fell . Smith thumped Ashwin over the long-on boundary twice and cut him for four in one over that yielded 16 runs after the Indian off-spinner had conceded just 19 runs in his first 11 overs . Marsh , who twice dropped Murali Vijay on Wednesday before the Indian opener scored 144 , had his own reprieve on 32 but did n't make it pay . He top-edged an attempted pull shot against Varun Aaron , skying the ball to leg gully , where Ajinkya Rahane put down a regulation chance that was well within range of wicketkeeper and skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni . Marsh did n't add to his score before he was out two overs later , edging a steeply-rising ball from Yadav to Ashwin at slip . On 63 , Smith looked up to the sky to acknowledge his former teammate Phillip Hughes , who was on that score in a Sheffield Shield match last month when he was hit by a short ball and later died in hospital. The four-Test series against India series was rescheduled after Hughes ' death , and Australia 's players are again wearing black armbands in his honor . Earlier , India started the day with high expectations of continuing an assault on a beleaguered Australian bowling attack that wilted in hot and humid conditions on day one . But both of India 's overnight batsmen were out quickly with Rahane ( 81 ) edging Hazlewood to Haddin and Rohit Sharma ( 32 ) spectacularly caught by a diving Smith at second slip off Watson . Hazlewood then switched ends and removed Ashwin ( 35 ) and Dhoni ( 33 ) to hasten India 's slide . " That was a pretty important time - to get a few early ones today was crucial to our success , " Hazlewood said. " Yesterday was a pretty tough slog , out in the heat , but we all came out well and ... picked up the last six wickets for about where we wanted them . " Confidence is sky high. " Haddin 's six dismissals equaled the Australian Test record for wicketkeepers , shared by Wally Grout , Rod Marsh and Ian Healy . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
