3rd ODI : India looking to seal issue against Sri Lanka The author has posted comments on this article JAC Gladson , TNN | Nov 9 , 2014 , 10.02AM IST Stand-in Indian captain Kohli says he wants " ruthlessness " to be the team 's new mantra. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 HYDERABAD : It 's not easy to stay focused when things are going well and all combinations come good , like they have done for India in the first two One-day Internationals of the hastily arranged five-match series against Sri Lanka. But that is what Virat Kohli and Co intend to do as they channel their resources for the 2015 World Cup . The Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium , which was to host a Test match of the abandoned West Indies tour , will give India another chance to weigh their options on Sunday , when they line up against a team missing the likes of Lasith Malinga and Rangana Herath in the bowling ranks , while the trio of Tillakaratne Dilshan , Mahela Jayawardene and Kumar Sangakkara are yet to find their touch . Stand-in Indian captain Kohli says he wants " ruthlessness " to be the team 's new mantra. " It 's more important when we are winning to underline the things that you can improve on and the things that did n't go right in that particular game. I think what we are trying to achieve is being ruthless rather than let situations ( slip away ) , " he said on Saturday . " In the past we have sort of got eight wickets and let the last two players get away with it. So collectively , we have decided to keep the foot on the pedal and not let the opposition get away with anything. So if you want to be ruthless , if you want big and convincing wins , it 's very important to address the issues that happened when you score a resounding win so that you can increase the margin of victories and improve those small little areas. That 's the kind of hunger and that 's the kind of vision that we are trying to instill in this team going into the World Cup , " he added . Ambati Rayudu at No. 3 is one such good thing India encountered in Ahmedabad. The 29-year-old made the most of being promoted up the batting order to notch up his maiden ODI century. In pacing the chase nicely , he made sure India 's gamble did n't backfire at Motera. Axar Patel , too , made it count . The Lankans , though , failed to capitalise on the opportunity and crumbled around skipper Angelo Mathews in Ahmedabad , vindicating the Lankan skipper 's stand that the Asia Cup champions were not fully ready to fight the world champions - a total contrast to the happy space the Indian team is in at the moment . Sangakkara and Thisara Perera know the venue well , but India would like to better their record of one win from four games here . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
