3rd ODI : Indian spinners restrict England to 227 The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Aug 30 , 2014 , 06.39PM IST Indian players celebrate the wicket of England 's Ian Bell ( unseen ) during the third one-day international at the Trent Bridge in Nottingham , England. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NOTTINGHAM : England squandered away a good start as the Indian spinners restricted the hosts to 227 all out in 50 overs against India in the third one-day International on Saturday . Put into bat , England started on a brisk note courtesy an 82-run opening partnership between Alastair Cook ( 44 ) and Alex Hales ( 42 ) but the spinners checked their surge by picking up wickets at regular intervals . Hales , playing his first ODI in front of his home crowd , was caught behind off part-time spinner Suresh Raina ( 1-37 ) while Cook was stumped off the bowling of Ambati Rayudu ( 1-8 ) . Spinners continued to have a field day as left-arm spinner Ravindra Jadeja ( 1-38 ) got Joe Root stumped for 2 while off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin ( 3-39 ) got Eoin Morgan caught behind for 10 . Ian Bell ( 28 ) hung around for a while only to be run out at the non-strikers end as Mohit Sharma 's direct throw caught the batsman well short of his ground . Ashwin got another wicket after Raina took a beautiful swooping one-handed catch at first slip to send Ben Stokes out for 2 . Mohammed Shami ( 1-40 ) also joined the party after picking up Chris Woakes for 15 as the hosts slipped further . Wicketkeeper-batsman Jos Buttler ( 42 ) showed some grit but failed to read Ashwin 's off spin in the 48th over to give the bowler his third wicket . James Tredwell ( 30 off 18 balls ) played a brisk cameo in the final overs to give England some respectability as the left-hander hit three fours and a six to help England snatch 18 runs from the last over of the innings . Tredwell though was caught and bowled off Bhuvneshwar Kumar ( 1-45 ) on the penultimate delivery while Steve Finn was run out on the final ball . England did manage to hit 45 runs in the last 5 overs but considering their good start , the hosts may have fallen well short of a competitive score on this Trent Bridge track . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
