3rd ODI : Ruthless India pocket series against Sri Lanka The author has posted comments on this article JAC Gladson , TNN | Nov 10 , 2014 , 09.38AM IST Shikhar Dhawan returns to pavilion as Virat Kohli pats him during the 3rd ODI against Sri Lanka in Hyderabad. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 HYDERABAD : India bettered their record at the venue and in the process consigned Sri Lanka to their third defeat in the five-match series with Shikhar Dhawan 's 91 ( 79b , 8x4 , 6x1 ) complementing the fine show of the bowlers and ensuring a six-wicket win on a day of milestones . A full house at the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium had plenty to cheer on Sunday as Virat Kohli , who during his 53 ( 61b , 4x4 , 6x1 ) became the fastest player in the world to reach 6000-run club in ODIs , and his team asserted their superiority over the Lankans in all facets of the game despite the visiting side recovering well in the middle overs through Mahela Jayawardene 's 17th century in One-day Internationals . The former Lankan skipper was a picture of calm during his 118 ( 124b , 12x4 , 6x1 ) , but apart from his knock and the 105-run stand for the third wicket with Tillakaratne Dilshan ( 53 ; 80b , 7x4 ) , the Lankans had little to show by way of spirit or enterprise . The poor record of teams chasing down a target here might have been at the back of Angelo Mathews ' mind when he decided to bat first , but they were soon fishing in troubled waters . Umesh Yadav made the initial inroads , Ambati Rayudu got rid of Dilshan courtesy Ajinkya Rahane 's brilliance at extra cover and left-arm spinner Axar Patel 's second spell ( 3-1-11-3 ) wrecked the Lankan hopes in the second Powerplay , during which they scored 16 runs and lost three wickets . Jayawardene was unfazed by the chaos around him , but the fact that the Lankans could n't make the most of the six overs bowled by Suresh Raina and Rayudu. Ishant Sharma left the field after bowling four overs - was indicative of their struggle on a day the Indians claimed all the wickets from the Northern end and 11 wides notwithstanding , can look back with satisfaction at their bowling effort . The 12,000-run mark in ODIs was another milestone that the 426-match veteran Jayawardene crossed - the third Lankan and fifth overall to achieve the feat - during his 67-run stand for the eighth wicket with Seekkuge Prasanna before Ashwin ended the resistance with Wriddhiman Saha 's alert to the opportunity behind the sticks . The Indian riposte was a total contrast to the Lankan innings ; a breath of fresh air on a balmy day with Dhawan becoming the fastest Indian to the 2000-run mark in ODIs and his 62-run partnership with Rahane shutting the doors on a Lankan comeback. The left-hander got there in his 49th match to eclipse Sourav Ganguly and Navjot Sidhu , who both did it in 52 innings . Rahane and Rayudu failed to make good the starts , the latter finding himself a handshake away from Dhawan at the non-striker 's end attempting a single . Kohli , too , fell on the threshold of victory but by then India were sure they would travel to Kolkata with the series in the bag . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
