3rd Test : Australia in control after taking 326-run lead The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Dec 29 , 2014 , 02.16PM IST Australia 's batsman Shaun Marsh drives a delivery during the fourth day of the third Test against India at the MCG in Melbourne. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Australia put themselves in a comfortable position by taking an overall lead of 326 runs at the end of the fourth day as the third Test headed for an exciting finish , with India needing to go for a all-out win to keep themselves afloat in the series . India 's first innings folded for 465 , adding just three runs to their overnight score , with Mitchell Johnson polishing off the tail without much fuss . The hosts then rode on David Warner 's pacy 40 , Rogers ' patient 69 and Shaun Marsh ( 62 not out ) to reach 261-7 at close on a rain-hit fourth day at the MCG , taking an overall lead of 326 with three wickets in hand . With one whole day left , Australia may add a few more runs before declaring the innings and set India a stiff target early on Tuesday. India will have to play out of their skin to either win or save the match on a tricky fifth day track . Interestingly , England is the only team to have successfully chased down a total of 300 plus on the fourth innings at MCG. They had made 332 for seven way back in 1929 . At stumps , Shaun Marsh and Ryan Harris were batting on 62 and 8 respectively . Earlier , resuming at an overnight score of 462/8 , India could survive just 15 deliveries as Johnson dismissed Mohammed Shami ( 12 ) and Umesh Yadav ( 0 ) within a space of eight balls to earn Australia a 65-run lead . Australia then got off to a rousing start in their second innings with David Warner ( 40 runs , 42 balls , 6 fours ) attacking the Indian bowlers , giving his team an early push as they look to set an imposing fourth-innings ' target for India . After he was dismissed by Ashwin , Rogers and Shane Watson ( 17 ) tried to extend the lead as Australia took lunch at 90 for one in 22 overs . However , rain intervention after lunch , resulted in a loss of 85 minutes of play and when play resumed , regular wickets fell to leave the hosts at 174/4 in 43 overs at tea , which was taken after an extended second session . In the final session of play , India took three more wickets , dismissing Joe Burns ( 9 ) , Brad Haddin ( 13 ) and Johnson ( 15 ) but Australia had put themselves in a comfortable position by then . India kept a tight leash on the Australian second innings after a lengthy rain delay in the afternoon with Ishant Sharma ( 2-49 ) , R Ashwin ( 2-56 ) and Umesh Yadav ( 2-73 ) taking two wickets each , while Mohammad Shami ( 1-75 ) snapping one . Bad weather resulted in a loss of 85 minutes of play but once play resumed at the MCG , India tried to fight back with their impressive bowling performance . Rogers ( 69 runs , 123 balls , 8 fours ) and Shane Watson ( 17 ) tried to increase their lead further and they were nearly helped by Shikhar Dhawan , who dropped a tough one-handed chance at second slip , diving in front of R Ashwin ( 2-21 ) at first slip . Rogers , who was batting on 33 at that time , was the batsman to benefit against Ishant Sharma ( 1-38 ) in that 23rd over of the innings. The breakthrough came two overs later though as Ishant this time had Watson caught behind . Steve Smith ( 14 ) came out to bat and took Australia past the 100-run mark in the 26th over , adding 33 runs for the third wicket. Meanwhile , Rogers went on to score his fourth successive half-century of the series , getting to the mark off 81 balls , in the 28th over . Four overs later his partnership with Smith was broken by Umesh Yadav ( 1-55 ) when the young skipper was caught by Ajinkya Rahane as the leg slip finally came into play . With just 20 minutes left in the session , Ashwin returned into the attack and dealt a big blow to Australia , cleaning up Rogers in the 41st over , the batsman looking solid until then . Marsh and Burns then negotiated the rest of the session without damage as Australia took tea at 174-4 . After the break , Marsh and debutant Burns ( 9 ) looked to march on but were only able to add two runs when the latter was dismissed poking at a good length delivery from Ishant in the 46th over , snapped up by a diving MS Dhoni . Brad Haddin ( 13 ) came out and threw his bat around to take Australia past the 200-run mark in the 55th over. But he did n't last too long , caught behind off Yadav in the 56th over , although it was n't quite clear if he edged the ball . Mitchell Johnson ( 15 ) then added 32 runs with Marsh for the 7th wicket before trying to pull a short ball from Shami and was caught at midwicket . Marsh though soldiered on and hit Ashwin for a six straight down the ground to bring up his 2nd Test fifty off 112 balls in the 69th over . Two overs later , Marsh helped Australia past the 250-mark , adding 27 unbeaten runs for the 8th wicket with Harris until close of play . Earlier , Warner have the hosts a flying start when he came out to bat despite a bruised right arm to go with his already hurting left thumb . He took first strike and smacked Yadav for three fours in his first two overs , racing to 18 off just 12 balls. While he was at the crease , they were scoring at nearly six-per-over though things settled down a little after drinks break . The Australian 50-mark came up in the 12th over , 38 off those coming off Warner 's bat. He was finally removed by Ashwin in the 15th over , LBW as the delivery hit him on the backfoot. Watson and Rogers then negotiated the six-plus overs left until the lunch break . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
