3rd Test : India take three wickets to slow Australia march The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Dec 29 , 2014 , 11.25AM IST Indian spinner Ravichandran Ashwin celebrates after dismissing Australian batsman David Warner during the fourth day of the third Test at the MCG in Melbourne. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : India 's bowlers captured three wickets to temper Australia 's hopes of victory and restrict their lead to 239 runs at tea on Day four of the third Test in Melbourne on Monday . After rain delayed the resumption of play after lunch at the Melbourne Cricket Ground , Ishant Sharma had number three batsman Shane Watson caught behind for 17 before Umesh Yadav took the prized wicket of Australia captain Steven Smith for 14 . Spinner Ravichandran Ashwin then had Chris Rogers playing onto his stumps for 69 late in the session . Middle order batsman Shaun Marsh ( 15 not out ) and debutant Joe Burns ( 8 not out ) survived a nervous two overs after Rogers ' wicket to the break , with Australia on 174-4 . Australia lead the four-match series 2-0 and need only a draw in Melbourne to seal it . With six wickets in hand , Australia should still be able to bat India out of the match in the final session , but Ashwin 's dismissal of Rogers gave the tourists renewed hope . The spinner found some decent turn in the pitch in his second-last over before tea , beating Rogers ' bat , then having the opener play a nervous nick at a straighter ball that dribbled onto the stumps . Watson was out driving at a straight delivery off Ishant and nicking to India captain and wicketkeeper Mahendra Singh Dhoni who took a good , low catch . Dhoni 's move to put a leg slip behind Smith for Yadav appeared a stroke of genius when the Australian captain nicked down the leg side straight to Ajinkya Rahane . Ashwin also dismissed David Warner after a quickfire 40 midway through the morning , trapping the pint-sized batsman in front of the wickets . India were dismissed within 15 minutes of the start of play for the addition of only three runs to their overnight score of 462-8 . They lost their last two wickets to paceman Mitchell Johnson , who finished with 3-135 after being cleaned up by Virat Kohli and Rahane on day three . Number 10 batsman Yadav was caught behind by wicketkeeper Brad Haddin for a duck on the second ball of the day with an almost unplayable , rising delivery that nicked his bat handle on the way through . Johnson then had Mohammed Shami out for 12 when he swiped at a fuller delivery that captain Smith caught easily at second slip . Paceman Ryan Harris finished with figures of 4-70 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
