3rd Test : Rahane , Kohli build record stand to defy Australia The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Dec 28 , 2014 , 12.57PM IST Indian batsman Virat Kohli celebrates after scoring a century against Australia during the third day of the third Test at the Melbourne Cricket Ground in Melbourne. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : India batsmen Ajinkya Rahane and Virat Kohli struck inspired centuries during a record fourth-wicket partnership at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on Sunday to help India claw their way back into the third Test against Australia on Day three . The pair united with India vulnerable at 147-3 in the morning and were finally separated at 409-4 after tea , having creamed 262 runs off Australia 's hapless bowlers before spinner Nathan Lyon had Rahane trapped lbw for 147 . Kohli , enjoying an outstanding series with three centuries , pushed on to 169 before he was dismissed courtesy of wicketkeeper Brad Haddin 's second brilliant catch of the day . His wicket brought stumps , with Mohammed Shami nine not out and India having reached 462-8 , trailing Australia 's mammoth first innings total of 530 by 68 runs with two wickets in hand . Kohli lost three batting partners in quick succession , with debutant Lokesh Rahul holing out for three , captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni lasting 11 runs and spinner Ravichandran Ashwin dismissed for a duck . Though Australia fought back admirably late in the session , they had no answers to the brilliance of Kohli and Rahane for over four hours , the pair lashing 39 boundaries between them on a warm , sunny day . Australia 's main strike bowler Mitchell Johnson came in for some special punishment , leaching 27 runs in two overs after tea as his short-pitched assault was dismissed with arrogance . Kohli pulled Johnson to the fence three times in one of the overs to have the large Indian contingent in the crowd of 42,000 roaring their approval . The ICC Cricketer of the Year ultimately had Kohli caught behind but he ended the day with the ugly figures of 1-133 . Australia had earlier taken two wickets in the first hour , but would rue two dropped catches in the middle session that could have ended Kohli and Rahane 's stand much earlier . Lyon contrived to spill the simplest of catches off his own bowling to reprieve Rahane on 70 , while Watson grounded a sharp chance at first slip to grant Kohli a life before tea . It took umpire Kumar Dharmasena 's intervention to split the pair , the Sri Lankan raising his finger for lbw when Rahane missed a sweep-shot , though replays suggested the middle order batsman may have been hard done by . Rahul lasted a flighty eight balls , dropped on the seventh by substitute fielder Peter Siddle at midwicket after an unsightly slog , only to be caught on the next Lyon delivery at backward square leg by Josh Hazlewood courtesy of another appalling stroke . Dhoni survived for a streaky 11 before feathering an edge off Ryan Harris through to Haddin , and the bulky paceman caught Ashwin off his own bowling soon after . Haddin earlier notched his 250th dismissal with a brilliant , diving catch to remove Pujara for 25 on the second ball of the day , having dropped him on 12 late on day two . Australia lead the four-match series 2-0 after wins in Adelaide and Brisbane and can seal it in Melbourne with a draw . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
