3rd Test : Rogers , Watson recover Australia innings The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Dec 26 , 2014 , 07.47AM IST Australian batsman Chris Rogers hooks a ball away during the first day of the third Test against India at the Melbourne Cricket Ground ( MCG ) in Melbourne. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Chris Rogers and Shane Watson steadied the Australian innings after the early dismissal of David Warner on the opening day of the third Test against India on Friday . Rogers , who scored 55 in both innings of the second Gabba Test , was heading towards a third straight half-century in the Boxing Day Test at the Melbourne Cricket Ground . At lunch Australia were 92 for one after winning the toss with Rogers unbeaten on 46 with Watson on his highest score of the series , not out 41 . The pair had put on an unbroken 92 runs for the second wicket after Warner was out in the second over of the innings . Warner only lasted six balls before he played across Umesh Yadav and edged to Shikhar Dhawan at third slip for a duck . The Australians took 19 balls to get off the mark and it was a bye after a fumble by wicketkeeper Mahendra Singh Dhoni . But left-hander Rogers , playing on his home pitch , was looking comfortable at the crease and working his way into the series after concerns over a run of low scores . Watson was given a life on 37 nearing lunch when Dhawan fumbled him at second slip at the third attempt off Mohammed Shami . India made two changes from the team that lost the second Brisbane Test , with debutant Lokesh Rahul and Shami coming into the side . Rahul , who replaced Rohit Sharma , was selected to bat at number six , while speedster Varun Aaron made way for Shami . Paceman Ryan Harris returned to Australia 's pace attack at the expense of Mitchell Starc , while debutant Joe Burns was chosen to bat at number six for hamstring-victim Mitchell Marsh . Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's tourists trail 2-0 in the four-match series after defeats in Adelaide and Brisbane , and have not won at the MCG for 33 years . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
