3rd Test : Smith anchors Australia on attritional day The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Dec 26 , 2014 , 12.37PM IST Australia 's Steve Smith drives a delivery during the first day of the third Test against India at the Melbourne Cricket Ground in Melbourne. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Young captain Steven Smith compiled a watchful half-century to guide Australia to 259 for five at stumps and leave the third Test against India delicately poised after an attritional opening day in Melbourne on Friday . Smith won the toss and put his team in to bat but the hosts were on the back foot for much of a mild , sunny day in front of a festive Boxing Day crowd of 70,000 . Continuing a stellar run of form , Smith was unbeaten on 72 at stumps , with Brad Haddin surviving a couple of body blows from India 's pacemen and clutching to a scratchy 23 . Smith and middle order batsman Shaun Marsh resumed after tea with Australia on 174-3 , but Marsh was out quickly for 32 with a rash front-foot swipe at paceman Mohammed Shami that gave an edge to India wicketkeeper and captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni . Test debutant Joe Burns , replacing injured all-rounder Mitchell Marsh , managed 13 runs before bottom-edging an Umesh Yadav delivery to Dhoni . Where Smith never really appeared under great threat , the out-of-form wicketkeeper Haddin was under the gun constantly from India 's pacemen but gritted through the final overs to ensure the hosts lost no further ground . Australia 's batsmen may be disappointed with their return , however , with several making starts and only Smith holding hope of cashing in . Opening batsman Chris Rogers and Shane Watson raised half-centuries soon after lunch but were both out within minutes of each other early in the middle session . One ball after a mix-up over a single , Rogers was dismissed by paceman Shami for 57 , nicking an edge to Dhoni behind the stumps . Watson was the architect of his own downfall , however , trapped lbw by Ravi Ashwin for 52 when trying to sweep the spinner a few balls later . Under pressure after a string of low scores , the all-rounder failed to make India pay after being dropped in the slips by Shikhar Dhawan on 37 . Yadav dismissed opening batsman David Warner for a duck in the second over but India squandered their strong start with poor fielding as the hosts pushed to 92-1 at lunch . Dhawan caught Warner well in the slips but made a hash of Watson 's chance before lunch , diving across from second slip and juggling the ball twice before it grounded , much to the delight of most of the MCG crowd . Australia are bidding to seal the four-match series 3-0 after winning the opening tests in Adelaide and Brisbane . India made two changes , with the out-of-form Rohit Sharma dropped in favour of debutant batsman Lokesh Rahul and Shami coming in for paceman Varun Aaron . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
