4th ODI : India yearn for more against Sri Lanka The author has posted comments on this article Archiman Bhaduri , TNN | Nov 13 , 2014 , 11.00AM IST India have already sealed the series by winning the first three games. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : Blame it on the visitors if you do n't get to see a full house at the Eden Gardens on Thursday. It 's not just that the home team has already sealed the series by winning the first three games , but more importantly , it 's the quality of cricket dished out by the Lankans that has disappointed cricket lovers . If sports is about competition , the Lankans have failed to put up any fight so far . Much was expected from the islanders when they accepted the invitation to fill in for the West Indies , who pulled out of the India tour without playing the fifth ODI , a one-off T20 International and three Tests. The Lankans had a good year , beating England in England and Pakistan at home in all formats of the game . They have been missing pace spearhead Malinga , who is nursing an ankle injury , but even with the personnel at their disposal , few expected such a below-par show. The team has looked grossly unprepared. Angelo Mathews has won all three tosses , but the Lankans have failed to capitalize on the advantage -be it bowling first or batting . With the World Cup Down Under less than 100 days away , this series was expected to serve as a preparation for the mega event for both teams. If the Lankans have failed to utilize this opportunity , Indian aspirants like Ambati Rayudu and Axar Patel have grabbed their chance with both hands to give the national selectors some welcome options . Rohit Sharma , set to make a comeback from an injury-induced layoff , will be hungry for runs against a pedestrian bowling attack which has been no better than club class. Robin Uthappa also gets a chance to make his mark both as a batsman and wicketkeeper . Going by the batting order at the match-eve nets , Rohit is likely to replace the rested Shikhar Dhawan at the top of the order. Stand-in skipper Virat Kohli hinted as much . " These two games and the tri-series in Australia will certainly help him ( Rohit ) get into groove at the top of the order. We will be looking to give him as many overs to bat as possible , " Kohli said . The captain made it clear that Uthappa will keep wickets. " He 's been brought in as a wicketkeeper-batsman. He has kept in the IPL. It 's an opportunity for him to show his skills both with the bat and gloves which can be handy for us in the future. " He stressed that there would be no let-up in intensity despite India having wrapped up the series . " Our motive at the start of the series was to be ruthless and try to win every game. We are still working towards that. We ca n't afford to be complacent at any point of time. It 's going to be the same kind of effort and intensity from everyone on the field , " Kohli thundered . That wo n't be music to the Sri Lankans ' ears. To say that they need to lift their game to salvage a face-saving win or two is an under-statement . As for the Lankans , the team will hope the inclusion of Ajantha Mendis adds bite to the attack . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
