4th Test : Australia 123/0 at lunch on Day 1 against India The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Jan 6 , 2015 , 07.40AM IST Australia 's Chris Rogers is hit by a short ball during the first day of the fourth Test against India at the Sydney Cricket Ground. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Chris Rogers and David Warner shouldered the emotions of playing at the ground where former team mate Phillip Hughes was fatally injured six weeks ago to get Australia off to a blistering start in the fourth Test against India on Tuesday . The hosts , who have already secured the four-Test series after wins in Adelaide and Brisbane , raced to 123 without loss at lunch on the first day . The death of the 25-year-old Hughes , who was struck by a short delivery in a first class match in late November , has hung over the entire series but it has been brought to the fore at the Sydney Cricket Ground . Cricket Australia unveiled a memorial plaque outside the home side 's dressing room on Monday , while both teams paid tribute to the left-hander before the game began on Tuesday . Regular captain Michael Clarke , who tore a hamstring in the first Test and is fighting to be fit for the upcoming World Cup , also spoke at length about Hughes in a television package before play started . " This was his ground , the Sydney Cricket Ground , " Clarke said in a Nine Network tribute. " This is where he played his last game , this is where his spirit will live forever . " The cheeky little bugger , he would be up there , smiling on us now wanting us to be happy enjoying life , getting on with it. " Rogers and Warner did exactly that after Steve Smith , Clarke 's replacement as skipper , won the toss and chose to bat . The pair were scoring at almost eight runs an over for the first 15 minutes before the run rate slowed . Warner belted three successive boundaries off Umesh Yadav to race through the 40s before he brought up his 14th Test half century in the next over . The left-hander also kissed the pitch and signalled to the sky when he reached 63 , the score Hughes was on when he was hit by the ball , and went to the break on the mark . Rogers was on 52 , his fifth successive half century and 10th overall . Australia , who hold a 2-0 lead in the series , made one change from the drawn third Test in Melbourne with pace bowler Mitchell Starc replacing Mitchell Johnson , who is resting a hamstring injury as a precaution ahead of the World Cup . India 's new captain Virat Kohli , leading the side after the surprise retirement of Mahendra Singh Dhoni , made an immediate impression with wholesale changes . Wicketkeeper Wriddhiman Saha , who played in the Adelaide Test when he replaced Dhoni , was recalled while Kohli also shook up the top order . Opener Shikhar Dhawan and number three Cheteshwar Pujara were both dropped , with Rohit Sharma and Suresh Raina expected to move up the order , while pace bowler Ishant Sharma was replaced by Bhuvneshwar Kumar . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
