4th Test : Australia reach 242/2 at tea on Day 1 The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jan 6 , 2015 , 10.18AM IST Australia 's David Warner jumps to celebrate after scoring a century against India during Day 1 of the fourth Test match in Sydney. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Australia rode on a 200-run opening stand between David Warner ( 101 ) and Chris Rogers ( 95 ) to reach 242 for two at tea on the opening day of the fourth and final cricket Test against India at the SCG on Tuesday . The Virat Kohli-led India fought back after the morning session to send back the openers but Shane Watson ( 10 not out ) and captain Steve Smith ( 28 not out ) did well to not only stitch an unbeaten 38-run partnership but also maintain the scoring rate at above four in the second session as well . Warner was the first to go just post the lunch break but not after registering his third hundred in this series and 12th overall . Off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin ( 1-55 ) gave India the much-needed breakthrough in the 45th over after getting the left-handed batsman to edge one to gully . Rogers departed in the very next over when the left-hander got a thick inside edge of Mohammed Shami ( 1-49 ) and the ball crashed on to the stumps . Watson and Smith then played intelligent cricket to not only blunt the Indian attack but also score runs at a good pace . Earlier electing to bat on a hot and sunny morning , the Australian opener made merry against an Indian attack that once again lacked steam . Lokesh Rahul dropping Rogers , was on 19 then , off Shami did not help matters for the visiting side as the openers took Australia to 123 for no loss at lunch . Warner got to his 14th half-century and Rogers scored his fifth fifty of the series as the hosts scored at will . On an emotional day for the Australian team , which is playing their first match at this venue where late Phillip Hughes was fatally struck by a bouncer six weeks back , the hosts made sure that tributes translate into performance as well . After lunch , Warner ( 63 not out ) and Rogers ( 52 not out ) started off from where they had left. It looked to be a long day in the field for the visiting side , who despite tightening their bowling in the second session still conceded to concede runs . The 150-run mark came up in the 34th over of the innings and two overs later , at 158/0 , they had surpassed the highest opening stand of 157 runs they had previously put together against England at Perth in 2013 . In the 42nd over then , Warner brought up his 12th Test hundred - and third of this series - off 108 balls. It was an emotional celebration for the left-hander as he looked up at the skies and paid tribute to late Phillip Hughes . Three overs later , he brought up the 200-mark for Australia and within only three hours of play , the match seemed to be slipping away from India already . It was then that Ashwin struck as Warner was caught at second slip by Murali Vijay. With an economy rate of 2.89 , the spinner had looked the only bowler in some control against the rampaging partnership and it was just reward for his efforts on a placid day one track . It became a double blow for Australia as in the very next over , Shami bowled Rogers , an inside edge robbing him of a deserved hundred. Afterwards , Smith and Watson batted with solidity and avoided any further losses while Suresh Raina ( 0-14 ) too turned his arm over . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
