4th Test : Not too late to change for India The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 6 , 2014 , 10.12AM IST Gautam Gambhir may replace Shikhar Dhawan and Varun Araon could keep Mohammad Shami on tenterhooks. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MANCHESTER : England and India had one eye on the sky as they took to the nets here at Old Trafford , where the fourth Test gets under way on Thursday . While the Indians trained in bright sunshine on Tuesday morning , the English players limbered up on the lush green turf under overcast conditions before having a 'feel ' of the playing surface by practising on an adjoining pitch . With rain predicted on the opening day , it will be a challenge for rival captains to pick playing XIs to suit the firm and brown surface . It is hard to read the minds of modern-day captains , but if clues from nets are anything to go by , Dhoni is contemplating at least two changes to the XI that caved in meekly in Southampton . Gautam Gambhir , who has looked a forlorn figure on this tour , was one of the earliest to get into the nets - a courtesy normally accorded to regular openers . The fact that Shikhar Dhawan neither batted with the regulars in the nets nor fielded at first slip , when coach Duncan Fletcher was giving the close-in catchers a workout , also indicated that the team management may effect a change at the top of the order . Dhawan , with 122 runs from six innings , has faced just 211 balls and generally struggled to get going against the moving ball . The team management feels Gambhir 's experience will be handy in the remaining two Tests. Gambhir 's last Test appearance was against England in 2012 in Nagpur . Interestingly , Dhawan 's position at first slip was taken by his opening partner Murali Vijay , who is not only India 's leading run-scorer in the series with 364 , but has also spent most amount of time in the middle . The other big change could be R Ashwin 's return to Test action. The off-spinner , who was dumped after the Johannesburg Test where he went wicketless inspite of bowling 42 overs in two innings , not only batted long in the nets early on but also fielded at fourth slip/gully before turning his arm over . With No. 6 Rohit Sharma falling cheaply twice in the third Test , Dhoni may go back to playing a fifth bowler in Ashwin , who is also a reliable lower-order batsman and has a Test hundred under his belt . Ishant Sharma , who continues to perform goalkeeping and umpiring duties during training and net practice , respectively , is ruled out , but barring any last-minute injury , Bhuvneshwar Kumar -who bowled off his full run-up in the nets on Tuesday - will be fit to lead India 's attack along with Pankaj Singh and Mohammad Shami . Varun Araon , though , could keep Shami on tenterhooks especially as the Bengal pacer 's five wickets have cost him 73 runs each . Dhoni , whose form has been patchy to say the least , had a long session in the nets . The skipper also faced throw-downs. Naman Ojha , who will be Dhoni 's understudy in place of the injured Wriddhiman Saha , joined the squad on Tuesday , but it was too late for him to have a knock . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
