4th Test : Smith sparkles as Australia push lead to 348 The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Jan 9 , 2015 , 12.47PM IST Australian skipper Steve Smith pulls the ball during the fourth day of their fourth and final Test match against India in Sydney. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Skipper Steve Smith led the way with another torrent of runs as Australia raced to 251 for six and a lead of 348 over India before rain stopped play at the end of the fourth day of the fourth Test on Friday . Looking to wrap up the four-match series 3-0 , the hosts dismissed India for 475 shortly before tea to take a 97-run first innings lead and then embarked on a fierce assault on the Indian bowlers in a bid to force a result . It started poorly when spinner Ravichandran Ashwin ( 4-104 ) had David Warner ( 4 ) caught in the slips after facing five balls and Shane Watson played on for 16 . Opener Chris Rogers , though , hit a 77-ball 56 before he was caught at midwicket off Bhuvaneshwar Kumar and Smith was soon back in his considerable stride . The Australian captain raced to his half century in 44 balls and had soon passed Donald Bradman as his country 's highest scorer in a series against India . Shaun Marsh came and went for a single run to give Ashwin his third victim before Smith 's 93-minute innings came to an end when Mohammed Shami trapped him plumb lbw . His 71 brought his series tally to 769 and a group of fans in the member 's stand bowed low to him as he walked back to the Sydney Cricket Ground dressing room to ponder his declaration . Joe Burns took up the mantel and grabbed his maiden Test half century with three sixes and eight fours in his 39-ball 66 , while Brad Haddin ably assisted with 31 not out . India captain Virat Kohli has been no slouch with the bat in this series but he was only able to add seven runs to his overnight score before clipping a Ryan Harris delivery to Rogers at midwicket some 20 minutes into play . The 147 helped bring his tally over the four Tests to 646 runs , the second highest by an Indian batsman in an overseas series after the 774 Sunil Gavaskar accumulated in West Indies in 1971 . Despite the Indian tail wagging for the first time in the series and good batting conditions , the Australians managed to winkled out four more batsman . They got some help from the third umpire to get rid of Kumar ( 30 ) , who put on 65 with Ashwin ( 50 ) for the eighth wicket , after a referred decision that will do little to persuade India to embrace the Decision Review System . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
