5th ODI : India eye clean sweep against Sri Lanka The author has posted comments on this article Sourav Modak , TNN | Nov 16 , 2014 , 09.02AM IST Fans taking pictures of Rohit Sharma during a practice session in Ranchi on Saturday. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 RANCHI : With the series dead and the Sri Lankans buried at the Eden by Rohit Sharma 's humongous 264 , there 's hardly anything at stake when the Men in Blue take on their southern neighbours at JSCA International Cricket Stadium on Sunday . That said , one must not forget that this is the last one-dayer on home soil before India fly off to Australia for a full fledged tour followed by the World Cup Down Under. The result of the match may not have any direct impact on the fate of the series but the chance of a whitewash will surely give Virat Kohli-led India enough reasons to go after the hapless Sri Lanka with all guns blazing . For the visitors , the encounter is just to complete the fixtures and formalities . It 's true that morning shows the day. Even after leading the series 4-0 , all the Indian players , except stand-in skipper Kohli and Suresh Raina , took to the nets as scheduled while the Lankans started training more than one and half an hour later than the scheduled time . Kohli and Raina skipped the optional practice session and it was learnt later that the left-hander has been given rest for the last ODI . All-rounder Stuart Binny was the first to bat in the nets before bowling a few deliveries. Robin Uthappa was the one who spend time batting most among the Indians which gave an indication that he might be promoted up the order . Umesh Yadav did n't have a bowl in the nets as he is said to be struggling with a stiff back , which means Vinay Kumar may get a place in the playing XI . In all likelihood , Maharashtra middle-order batsman Kedar Jadhav may make his international debut coming in place of Raina.The practice wicket was consistently offering turn , which is sure to give spinners Karn Sharma and Axar Patel something to look forward to. However , the dew factor may come into the equation when the lights come on . From Sri Lanka 's point of view , it will be their last chance to avoid the ignominy of a clean sweep loss.For India , the match is going to be an opportunity to look at the options keeping in mind the preparations for the 2015 World Cup . Other than the tie being an inconsequential one , homeboy Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's absence due to injury is going to hit ticket sales at the JSCA stadium. Reportedly , Dhoni is out of town and unlikely to be present at the stadium to watch his teammates play on his home ground . The response of the cricket enthusiasts in Ranchi is very low and until and un less something like Rohit Sharma 's knock happens on Sunday too , it 's un likely stands will be more than half full . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
