AB de Villiers confident of World Cup triumph The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 18 , 2015 , 03.32PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : South Africa captain AB de Villiers said he was growing in confidence that his side will be crowned World Cup champions on March 29 . The Proteas reached the semifinals on Wednesday with a nine-wicket rout of Sri Lanka at the Sydney Cricket Ground to set up a clash against either New Zealand or the West Indies . Chasing just 134 to win , the Proteas reached their target in the 18th over with opener Quinton de Kock making an undefeated 78 . Earlier , South Africa dismissed Sri Lanka -- won the toss -- for just 133 , with leg-spinner Imran Tahir taking four for 26 and off-spinner JP Duminy , whose figures included a hat-trick , three for 29 . " I 'm quietly confident. I 'm always a positive kind of guy -- I always believe in big things , " said de Villiers . " I spoke to ( fast bowler ) Morne Morkel , who loves fishing , and I said it 's almost like you 've got the big fish on the hook and you 've got to reel it in. " He added : " We had a really good feeling when we came to the ground today. We were almost obsessed with our goal . " We always knew JP would probably have to bowl 10 overs , so for him and Imran Tahir to come on in a crucial stage of the game and perform like that gives the spinners a lot of confidence. " The result on Wednesday meant that Kumar Sangakkara and Mahela Jayawardene would go into their ODI retirement without a World Cup title having played in the Sri Lanka sides which were runners-up in 2007 and 2011 . Sri Lanka captain Angelo Mathews admitted his team suffered severe stage fright . " A score of 130 was not much. There were no demons on this track. But we did n't bat well. Maybe it was nerves , we did n't go for our shots and it 's easily our worst performance we have done in the World Cup and it happened to be in the quarter-final , " he said . Mathews said it was a disappointing finish for his two stalwarts. Both Sangakkara , who will continue to play Tests , and Jayawardene , now finished with all international cricket , were allowed to lead the players off the field , sharing warm embraces with their South African rivals . " It 's disappointing to not make it a memorable one for Mahela and Sanga , " said Mathews . " On behalf of the nation and the team I thank them for their invaluable service. The best thing for us would have been to go to the final and win it for them but it was not to be. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
