AB de Villiers - the ultimate batting machine & cricket 's MVP The author has posted comments on this article Shashank Shekhar , TNN | Jan 20 , 2015 , 09.54AM IST South Africa 's captain AB de Villiers celebrates his century during the second ODI against the West Indies at the Wanderers Stadium. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 Even as AB de Villiers was clouting the hapless West Indian bowlers during his record-breaking blitzkrieg on Sunday in a One-dayer at the Wanderers , one South African TV commentator , commiserating with the tourists , was heard saying , " The bowlers should not feel too bad. He ( de Villiers ) has done that to Dale Steyn too. " That sums up De Villiers , the ultimate modern batting machine , if there is one. His 44-ball 149 on Sunday was a resounding affirmation of what many have believed for some years now : AB is overall the best batsman in the world. Just a few days back , Adam Gilchrist had proclaimed him as the 'most valuable cricketer on the planet'. And how the man from Pretoria lived up to those words ! In a mere 40 minutes , he raced to a hundred off 31 balls , unleashing such a breathtaking array of strokes that even Chris Gayle , who knows a thing or two about power hitting , was left applauding like a besotted fan . The South African is probably the most spectacular talent to have graced the game in the last decade or so. Blessed with exceptional athletic abilities - he has played at least six sports at the national level as a junior - De Villiers has matched it with s unshakeable temperament and a fierce will to become the force that he is today. To top it all , he is the ideal team man , humble and always ready to answer the call of duty . It 's a devastating mix which makes him a captain 's delight. AB is an impact player , but unlike many other power hitters , he is also very consistent - his 7440 ODI runs have come at an astounding average of 52.39 and a staggering strike rate of 97.22. Besides , his batting is based on a sound technique which lets him do well in all formats of the game in all conditions - he has 7606 Test runs at 52.09 ! But imposing as his numbers are , they do not capture his essence . It 's his fearlessness , his innovative edge and his resourcefulness which mark the man. He is probably the only batsman in the world who can start hitting sixes right from the first ball he faces. Not for him the need to read the conditions and get his eyes set. He is ready to explode and that makes him a supreme asset in limited-overs cricket. Once De Villiers is in the groove , it 's almost impossible to restrict him , especially in the limited-overs format where he presents a bewildering range of strokes. Thanks to his razor-sharp reflexes and inventiveness , he can carry off outrageous strokes. He can smack a perfectly fine delivery out of the park with little fuss , and treat the best fast bowlers like dibbly-dobblers . Add to his batting prowess his contributions as a mercurial fielder and a reliable wicketkeeper and you get an irresistible package. It 's another thing that AB is not as celebrated as some of his contemporaries which is partly because he is non-flashy and just lets his bat do the talking. Besides , he is not an Indian cricketer who enjoys demi-God status in his country. Not that AB minds it - he is happy doing his thing , which is winning matches for South Africa . While he was always a livewire , the last three-four years have seen De Villiers grow into the champion that he is now. And if there is one player who could help the Proteas break the 'chokers ' tag at the upcoming World Cup , it 's AB . So lookout for the last man standing at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on March 29 . ABRAHAM BENJAMIN DE VILLIERS Born : Feb 17 , 1984 in Pretoria Nickname : AB , Abbas , Mr 360 Major teams : South Africa , Africa XI , Daredevils , Northerns , Royal Challengers , Titans Test debut : 2004 ODI debut : 2005 Test rank : 2 ODI rank : 1 Other sports : Rugby , tennis , golf , badminton , hockey , swimming , athletics Hobbies : Music , writing songs , playing the guitar. Released an album with Ampie du Preez called 'Maak you drome waar ' ( Make your dreams come true ) A PHENOMENAL SPORTS TALENT AB played at least six sports at the national level as a junior before committing himself to cricket Recipient of national medal from Late Nelson Mandela for a science project . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
