A big burden off my head , says Saina after winning India Open The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 29 , 2015 , 09.23PM IST Saina Nehwal plans to celebrate her triumph with ice cream , milk shake and chocolate. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Relieved to clinch her maiden India Open Super Series title , badminton star Saina Nehwal on Sunday said it is a huge burden off her head as she has always struggled to win this tournament and vowed to bring more laurels for the country in future . READ ALSO : Saina wins maiden India Open title " I think a big burden off my head. Last four years , I was struggling , losing in pre-quarters or quarters , this is the first time I have reached the finals and won it. So too many surprises for me in this tournament , being the world no 1 , winning the title. I am very proud of myself. I never thought this day will come after so much struggle , this is the best phase of my life , " Saina said after beating former world champion Ratchanok Intanon of Thailand 21-16 , 21-14 in the summit clash at the Siri Fort Sports Complex here on Sunday . Explaining further , Saina said : " I think the consistency with which I am playing is great. I reached three finals in last two months and it is not easy. My shoulder is taped , so it is obviously difficult playing against top players. " Asked what is in store for future , Saina said : " Titles makes me hungry. Next I hope to win more and more titles , I hope to be fit and injury free. This result will motivate me to win more titles. " Talking about the final , Saina said : " It was a tough match. Ratchanok is one player who always gives me a tough fight whenever I play her. Last time when I played her in the Asian Games , it was a long and close match , so it is always difficult to play her as she is very deceptive and she has got some tricky shots . " But the way I was moving today , I was picking all her tricky strokes and she was not liking it , so she made a lot of errors . " She gets tensed when you pick her strokes. But I can see she has improved a lot. She is playing well and coming back to form. I was expecting a tough final and it was a good final. I was surprised to see so many spectators today. It was lovely crowd. It was really a fantastic match today , " she said . Asked if she felt like the world no 1 when she walked on to the court on Sunday , Saina said : " I was only thinking about the final , world number one was not in my mind. I guess I will have to see my name in the ranking list next Thursday. " On her celebration plans , the 25-year-old said : " I will have ice cream , milk shake , chocolate , I will have everything today. I will rest tomorrow and then day after I will be back to practice before taking a flight to Malaysia. " Analysing Intanon 's game , Saina said : " I feel she is very good player from behind. She has got some tricky shots from behind and I get caught up with those strokes. She is good at the nets but so am I. " Saina , who had clinched the 2010 Commonwealth Games title at the same venue , said she was surprised by her flawless game and happy that she could change her tactics according to the match situation . " Everything was there today. From yesterday I played much better today. Of course , it was against a tougher opponent but I did n't expect to beat her in straight games , so easily . " In the second game , the way I started , I was surprised by myself that how come the shots are falling so sharply. I have to attack as I am an attacking player and a rally player as well , so I have to keep changing my game according to the situations , " she said . Saina said the way she played on Sunday , it has boosted her confidence and proved that she is improving each day . " I beat her in straight games , last time it was a tough much , so this shows that I am improving. I am able to beat top players , I am going good. When you win you feel confident but when you lose you again kind of go back and work on it , maybe I made some mistakes today so I have to work on them , " she said . " It is good that in last three months , I have reached finals , which means I am learning. I am not taking any tournament easily. Every tournament is difficult and every one will be prepared for me and I will have to play them many times in future , so I have to ready everytime , " Saina said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
