A decision that changed Starc 's life The author has posted comments on this article Ruchir Mishra , TNN | Mar 23 , 2015 , 08.29AM IST Australia 's Mitchell Starc celebrates the wicket of Pakistan 's Wahab Riaz with during the 2015 Cricket World Cup quarterfinal match. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NAGPUR : Around twelve years back , a tall boy came for the trials for the under-16 Western Suburbs Green Shield side in Sydney. The club coach Neil D'Costa , a childhood coach of Australian skipper Michael Clarke and late Phillip Hughes , was keenly watching this 14-year old doing different drills. He moved to him curiously when the boy threw the ball from the boundary . Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 " I actually saw him throw the ball from boundary with quite a powerful arm. He was quite tall so I thought he was a fast bowler. I said asked him to show me how did he bowl and to my surprise he told me he was a wicketkeeper-batsman. I insisted that he bowl. Initially , he did n't want to do it. I said to him said if he wanted to be in this team he had to bowl , " D'Costa told TOI from Sydney on Sunday . The boy had to give up his wicketkeeping gloves in order to get selected in the team. It turned out be a life-changing move for Mitchell Starc who is now one of the most feared fast bowlers in the world and is leading the Australian attack in the World Cup. " I taught him how to bowl and it actually turned out to be a good decision. Look what Mitchell is doing now for Australia , " D'Costa said with a sense of pride. And why not ? His ward has been in instrumental in Australia 's smooth campaign in the World Cup , having taken 18 wickets at an average of 9.77 in the tournament so far . Six years after he first started bowling , the left-arm pacer became part of the Australian Test squad , which toured India for the Border-Gavaskar Trophy in 2010. And while he is working his way up in Test cricket , he has become a leading exponent of limited-overs bowling . " I definitely expected what he has achieved. I told him many times that he had athletic ability. I set him on a programme , he worked hard on it and before he could realize he was in the New South Wales under-17 side. He has performed at every level to reach where he is today. He was always a special talent , a quick learner. There 's no one better than him bowling at the death , which is n't easy in current scenario where bowlers do n't have much of a say. It 's a big challenge and so far he is relishing it , " he said . D'Costa feels Starc will have a big impact on the India-Australia semifinal. " He has been bowling brilliantly for the last one year or so. When you bowl at that pace and in those areas , you can trouble any batsman in the world. It 's difficult to say what 's working for him but he is certainly doing some right things. My advice for him is to keep doing that what 's working for you , stay fit , stay happy and enjoy your success , " D'Costa said . D'Costa feels Starc has the ability to become a great fast bowler. The statistics too show that he has done amazingly so far. While he has been in and out of the Test squad , Starc has a great One-day record. He has taken 79 wickets in 39 matches so far at an average of 18.62. He takes a wicket every 23rd ball. " He became bowler at very young age so he was learning all the time. At 25 or 26 , he is experienced enough to know about his body , his bowling and his preparations for big matches. He can only grow from here , " D'Costa said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
