Adelaide redemption for skipper Kohli at Sydney The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Jan 11 , 2015 , 10.24AM IST Indian captain Virat Kohli pats teammate Murali Vijay ( right ) on the shoulder as they walk off the ground at the tea break during Day 5 of the fourth Test against Australia at the Sydney Cricket Ground. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Draws do n't feature in Virat Kohli 's dictionary. Or they had n't till Sydney happened. Winning and losing are the parameters he knows. Yet a new Kohli was born after India pulled off a hard-fought stalemate at the SCG . The Kohli who knows when a retreat is acceptable. The Kohli who recognizes the need for flexibility in crisis. The Kohli who knows it is okay not to go down fighting every time. The Kohli who was smiling at the SCG on Saturday . How well do we know Kohli the captain ? On the face of it , he seems a man in a hurry , given to aggressive statements of intent. His batting appears encumbered by the job , for which he has displayed a rare passion. He craves a relentless push for victory . We know this because Kohli has taken pains , both on the field and while talking off it , to make sure we recognize the traits which mark him out from MS Dhoni . Some of his positive energy has rubbed off , coming as a breath of fresh air for a Test team which was in danger of falling into torpor. Yet the first time he led , in Adelaide , he did n't know when to take his foot off the pedal . A Test which could have been drawn was lost. Kohli was yet to explore the grey areas which often define leadership. In Sydney , he ticked off another box : taking pride in saving a game . Not that he was too happy about admitting it. " The guys stood there and pulled out a draw , which is satisfying as of now , " he said. " But at a certain stage I thought we could go after the target. I thought it was worth taking that risk. We are not coming back here for a while so there is no point not trying. As the situation happened , we pulled put a draw. " When Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Ajinkya Rahane were defending out of their skins for a respectable stalemate , Kohli was sitting in the dressing room wondering what the dying moments of the SCG Test would have felt like if the series was 1-1 . " It was a feeling where you have forced the opposition to earn victory. We pulled them till the end on three occasions in this series. Honestly , Australia have had to earn both their victories. The first intention was to go for the target. But we did n't get the kind of momentum we got in Adelaide . " It was a matter of not thinking too much and going for it. When Vijay got a half-century playing a few strokes we thought it would be possible. Credit to them for the way they bowled. They made it difficult. We could n't keep up with the rate. What we did in the series was exciting for us , going into the future. " Kohli is also trying his hand at man-management. He said he did n't like the fact that an opener , KL Rahul , was made to bat in the middle order in Melbourne . Rahul was pushed up and contributed with a century. " He is a guy who has a lot of character , " Kohli said. " I used to put a lot of pressure on myself. Now I believe in myself. The simpler you make things , the better the decisions you are going to take. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
