Aditya Verma asks Sharad Pawar to contest BCCI elections The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 2 , 2015 , 04.42PM IST Sharad Pawar was BCCI president from 2005 to 2008. The Member of Parliament has also been the president of ICC from 2010 to 2012. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Secretary of the unrecognized Cricket Association of Bihar , Aditya Verma on Monday urged former BCCI chief and NCP strongman Sharad Pawar to contest for the post of president in the Cricket Board 's upcoming elections . The petitioner in the IPL spot-fixing scandal , Verma 's long-drawn battle with the N Srinivasan camp resulted in the Supreme Court banning the ICC chairman from contesting the BCCI polls . " I have requested Mr Pawar to contest the elections. BCCI is a sinking ship and only he can revive it once again because of his vast experience in administration and also integrity as an official , " Verma said . In a setback to Srinivasan , the Supreme Court on January 22 barred him from contesting any BCCI election on grounds of conflict of interest and set up a judges committee under a former Chief Justice of India to decide on the punishment in the IPL scam that threaten the future of Chennai Super Kings ( CSK ) and Rajasthan Royals ( RR ) . There is intense speculation that Pawar , who is currently the president of Mumbai Cricket Association ( MCA ) , has decided to contest the BCCI elections . Pawar was BCCI president from 2005 to 2008. The Member of Parliament has also been the president of International Cricket Council from 2010 to 2012 . The BCCI elections have been postponed twice due to the Supreme Court hearing in the 2013 IPL betting and spot-fixing scandal . On January 22 , the Supreme Court ordered that BCCI elections should be held within the next six weeks . With Srinivasan 's candidature now looking increasing doubtful due to his conflict of interest issues in Indian cricket , Pawar has emerged as a strong candidate though he may find the going tough as he has to be nominated by two units of East Zone. It is East Zone 's turn to propose a candidate for the president 's post this time . Verma had last week also asked another former BCCI President Jagmohan Dalmiya to contest for the top post . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
