Aditya Verma to file another petition against BCCI The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Mar 4 , 2015 , 12.46PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : After having succeeded in keeping N Srinivasan out of the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) for now through his petition in the Supreme Court , Aditya Verma now wants to stop the Tamil Nadu strongman from continuing as the International Cricket Council ( ICC ) chairman . BCCI has already approved the name of Srinivasan as its representative in the ICC , which , according to Verma , is a 'violation of the apex court 's order on February 27 and January 22' . " I will file a contempt of court petition against BCCI in the SC when the court opens after a holiday on March 9. How can they approve Srinivasan 's name for an ICC meeting before the completion of Justice Lodha committee 's report ? How can he represent the BCCI in the ICC when the SC has barred him from attending any meeting of the board ( be it the AGM , working committee , or even a sub-committee ) till the Lodha committee files it report ? " Verma told TOI on Tuesday . Verma will file the contempt petition against new BCCI president Jagmohan Dalmiya , interim board chief Shivlal Yadav and ex-secretary Sanjay Patel , who set the agenda for the AGM , according to Verma . " On May 19 last year , Yadav and Patel had violated the SC 's order on May 16 , and the BCCI constitution , by nominating Srinivasan as the board representative in the ICC. They were supposed to call a Special General Meeting ( SGM ) to do so , but they did n't. To cover up their earlier mistake , the outgoing committee of the BCCI approved his name in the AGM , " said Verma . " I will pray to the court to give direction to the BCCI to recall Srinivasan 's nomination from the ICC in the spirit of the SC 's orders on January 22 and February 27. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
