A fearless Dhawan is crucial to India 's plans The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Feb 1 , 2015 , 08.43AM IST Shikhar Dhawan had made his ODI debut three years earlier but was dropped after aggregating 69 runs from five games. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 For a while , Shikhar Dhawan has epitomized New Team India : cocky , confident , con viial ; a moustache-twirling , tattoo-exhibiting , cover-driving meteorite who arrived like a breath of fresh air on the international scene. As the story goes , in school Dhawan had the impunity to walk out of his math exams. On Test debut as opener , he chose to announce his arrival by smashing an incandescent 187 off 174 balls in Mohali against the Aussies in March 2013. The knock included the fastest debut century ever , off 85 balls. Dhawan screamed attitude. He seemed born to the big stage but there was more to him than the flash and glitter . He was 27 then in a set-up which frowns upon journeymen and seemed an inspiration to late bloomers. The Test debut came just when Dhawan 's career seemed destined to rot in the near-anonymity of India 's domestic scene . He had made his ODI debut three years earlier but was dropped after aggregating 69 runs from five games. Now , he seemed mature , hungry , tempered by marriage. Importantly , he had learnt to put a price on his wicket . India immediately anointed him the new pin-up star. Fashion magazines made a beeline to put him on the cover. The decline of Gambhir and Sehwag - Delhi statemates who had hogged all the limelight till then - seemed fortuitous for this West Delhi brat who thrives on a front-foot game and impeccable timing . The Champions Trophy in England brought another career highlight as 363 runs flowed from five matches at 90.75 , including two centuries. India realized this batsman was gifted , that he had the rare ability to defy tech nique-totting pundits to score away from home , and hopefully even face up to the short ball with alacrity . By March 2015 , midway through the World Cup in Australia and New Zealand , Dhawan will know if he is again at a crossroads or can survive the trough which has inevitably followed initial success . Failure could mean a return to the Delhi nets under coaches Tarak Sinha or Madan Sharma , the ones who chiselled away the rough edges to reveal the dynamism in Dhawan 's off-side play. As the enfant terrible of St. Mark 's Secondary Public School in Paschim Vihar , Dhawan was known as the notoriously difficult student who excelled at sport. His insouciance was legend. He would cajole people into signing autographs and loved to flaunt a devil-may-care attitude. But he also scored a century on debut for Sonnet when only 12. Dhawan once revealed he was such a mischievous kid he would rummage through people 's mailboxes and throw away the letters , or burst firecrackers in them ! He was man of the tournament in the U-19 World Cup in 2003-04 , but then teammates Dinesh Karthik , Robin Uthappa and Suresh Raina all seemed to have leapfrogged him at one stage. Year after year went by with Dhawan 's scores reflecting an inability to sacrifice flair for the military discipline professional sport demands . Luckily , he was the first to acknowledge this. The turning point came when Dhawan toured the West Indies in the summer of 2011 , and subsequently lost his place. He came back transformed , eager to iron out the chinks . Dhawan broke the mould in his personal life too in 2012 , fighting off parental disapproval to marry a British-Bengali amateur boxer seven years his senior - and a mother of two from a previous marriage - following an introduction by Harbhajan Singh . The Melbourne suburb of Naree Warren became his second home . Heading into the World Cup , though , Dhawan again finds itself in the same no-man 's land his feet occasionally contrive to find themselves in at the crease. Time and again , he has presented infuriatingly angled bat faces to guide the ball to the wicketkeeper on Australian pitches. Success in the World Cup will mean Dhawan has the ability to remould his game again and earn a few more years of leeway and stardust on the international stage. The current dip in form also comes at a most inopportune time for India. The team management has given him a longer rope than usual since he is so crucial to India 's plans. In the World Cup , Dhawan will be expected to rediscover the poise and swagger which made him a feared opener. India 's Cup fortunes may well sink or swim with his form . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
