A galvanised Mahendra Singh Dhoni at the helm The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 17 , 2015 , 09.10AM IST Dhoni looks determined to prove cricket pundits wrong and show he still has much to offer to Indian cricket. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : It was a galvanized Mahendra Singh Dhoni at the nets at the MCG on Friday afternoon. He not only rolled his arm over , bowling to fellow batsmen , but also batted the longest . Determination writ large on his face , he faced up to different types of bowlers on four different pitches , in two sessions . Out of the closet was his trademark helicopter shot which he attempted on a few occasions. With a license to kill in ODIs , Dhoni seemed more at ease striking the bowlers with power that only he can generate . Such batting was hardly witnessed from him in the two Test matches he played here earlier on the tour before his sudden retirement. There was no tentative poking at the ball , as no slips and gully were waiting in anticipation. That 's the situation most Indian batsmen like . It was easy to guess after watching him today at the nets why he decided to say goodbye to Test cricket. Obviously , he would have felt he was not doing justice to the longer format of the game , and looked so disinterested . However , there was apprehension among cricket pundits that quitting Test cricket may loosen his hold on the team as well as affect his own game. But , he , at the moment , looks determined to prove them wrong and show he still has much to offer to Indian cricket . Pundits also foresee that having different captains in different formats would lead to two power centres within the team. Right now , probably , it is too early for such fallout , as all the players seem determined towards a common cause . A usually reticent coach Duncan Fletcher was actively involved in discussions with the skipper when he was not batting or bowling. The two would surely like to get their combination right as quickly as possible so that India are not left chopping and changing the playing XI in every game. Of course , there will be horses for courses policy . How far the think-tank would be able to hold on to such a plan would be determined by how well India are able to perform in the Tri-series matches over the next couple of weeks . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
