Age , reality catch up with World Cup 's Big 5 The author has posted comments on this article Ehtesham Hasan , TNN | Dec 5 , 2014 , 09.59AM IST Share on Linkedin The selectors have bared their cards and although there is an outside chance to make it to the World Cup squad , they may have to keep the hunger alive to play in the IPL for a few more years. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : How do you spot a waning star ? For starters , you can ask the Sandeep Patil-chaired national selection committee which has decided to do away with some of India 's biggest household names from the 2015 World Cup provisional list on Thursday . Yuvraj Singh , Virender Sehwag , Gautam Gambhir , Harbhajan Singh and Zaheer Khan - the men who helped captain MS Dhoni get his hands around the World Cup in Mumbai four years ago and were also meant to be a bridge between the retired Indian greats and the Gen Next , could n't even make it into the 30-man list forwarded to the International Cricket Council for the 2015 World Cup . While some saw it coming , given their issues with form and fitness in recent times , the selectors ' view that these proven match-winners are n't good enough to feature even in the top 30 in the land is sure to raise a huge debate , if not a furore , among connoisseurs . The call to leave them out looks more like a BCCI policy decision rather than pure selectorial wisdom. That said , Patil and his colleagues do have a point when it comes to the non-inclusion of Zaheer and Sehwag . Both are on the wrong side of 30 and Zaheer , at 36 , has n't had a bowl since April this year. There 's talk that the left-arm seamer may even struggle to play for Mumbai this season given his lengthy recovery time . Sehwag , though has tried everything he could to regain his mojo. Over the last couple of years , the 36-year-old has worked doubly hard on his batting and even more on his fitness to regain his touch , but fate has not been with him . Barring a few attractive innings in the IPL , he has n't really set domestic cricket alive . Yuvraj , Gambhir and Harbhajan , however , are very much still in the game. They may not be in form , but they do have pedigree and the stomach for a fight , attributes that are needed during a multi-team event . The case against Yuvraj , apparently , is his struggle in the World T20 final in Bangladesh where he failed to put bat to ball. But in a fifty-over game , the batsman does get time to find his bearings in the middle . Maybe , he needed a ray of hope to lift himself for one more shot at glory . Gambhir and Harbhajan are feisty characters , the types you would want next to you in a scrap. The current crop is undoubtedly talented but they have n't really been tested in choppy waters . What 's next for these men ? The selectors have bared their cards and although there is an outside chance to make it to the World Cup squad , they may have to keep the hunger alive to play in the IPL for a few more years . Times View Much of the attention on the selection of 30 probables for the World Cup in Australia next year has centred around whether senior stars like Sehwag , Yuvraj , Gambhir , Harbhajan and Zaheer would be picked . To be fair to the selectors , it should not really come as a surprise to anybody seriously following the game that none of these stars has made the cut . Their contribution to Indian cricket , individually and as a bunch , has been immense , but their time is up. If there is a surprise in the list of probables , a small one , it is the absence of Naman Ojha , who has done enough as wicketkeeper and batsman to have won the nod . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
