Ahmed , Voges named in Australia 's Ashes squad The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Mar 31 , 2015 , 03.18PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Leg-spinner Fawad Ahmed and veteran allrounder Adam Voges were called up to Australia 's Test squad for touring the West Indies and England for the Ashes on Tuesday . Victorian leg-spinner Fawad was selected as Australia 's second spinner while Voges was rewarded for his record-breaking domestic season . Ahmed took a competition high 48 wickets for Victoria in the Sheffield Shield domestic this season. Western Australia 's spinner Ashton Agar was also in contention for a call-up after taking 31 wickets at 30.48 . Ahmed , 33 , was born in Pakistan and granted Australian citizenship in 2013. He played three One-Day Internationals ( ODIs ) and two Twenty20 internationals on Australia 's tour of England that year . National selector Rodney Marsh said Ahmed 's ability to keep things tight as well as being a big wicket-taking threat impressed him . " Him being a leg-spinner as opposed to a finger spinner gave him a slight advantage. Believe it or not , Australia is always looking for leg spinners. We 've had a proud history of leg spinning in this country and we want that to continue , " Marsh was quoted as saying by cricket.com.au on Tuesday . " ( Ahmed ) does n't bowl too much rubbish and he creates a lot of pressure. He has men around the bat in most instances and he keeps asking the batsmen questions , which is what good spinners do. " Marsh said Ahmed was selected keeping in mind the possibility of England having several left-handers in the team . " He maintains good economy and asks questions of both left and right-handers , bear in mind that England may have up to seven left-handers. " Australia 's Ashes squad : Michael Clarke ( captain ) , Steve Smith ( vice captain ) , Fawad Ahmed , Brad Haddin , Ryan Harris , Josh Hazlewood , Mitchell Johnson , Nathan Lyon , Mitchell Marsh , Shaun Marsh , Peter Nevill , Chris Rogers , Peter Siddle , Mitchell Starc , Adam Voges , David Warner , Shane Watson . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
