A journey from despair to joy for Ajinkya Rahane The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Sep 4 , 2014 , 01.42PM IST Dedication has much to do with Rahane 's success story. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : On March 24 at the Ferozeshah Kotla in Delhi last year , the Team India dressing room was a party zone , with the players celebrating a 4-0 Test rout of Australia like there was no tomorrow . Amongst them was a 25-year-old who was trying his best to put on a 'fake ' smile. In a happy atmosphere , he had reason to feel bad . After waiting for some years to wear a Test cap for India and piling up the runs in first class cricket for Mumbai , Ajinkya Rahane had wasted his debut -getting out for seven & one . More than the scores , it was his dismissal in the second innings , when he lost his wicket while playing a risky shot with India chasing a low but tricky total , that drew the critics ' ire . Having already lost his ODI spot a couple of months back by succumbing to England pacer Steven Finn 's incoming deliveries , Rahane was staring into an abyss . Then , just as he was slipping into depression , he received a phone call that changed his career . " Normally , players ask me to train them personally. In his case , I knew that he would be hesitant to do that , so I myself called him. Maybe , since he is a fellow Mumbaikar , I was too hurt to see him fail. I too had gone through a similar stage in my career. I wanted him to bounce back , " Mumbai Ranji coach Pravin Amre told TOI on Wednesday . Amre 's first task was lifting Rahane 's spirits. " You know , he is not a bindaas guy. Criticism hurts him , " Amre said . " I took him to a friend of mine - Abhay Poyarekar. He was a customs officer who had won a bravery award from the President of India , " the former India batsman recalled . Poyarekar had received plenty of threats as well as bribery offers from the underworld after he averted a major bomb blast in Mumbai by seizing 18 detonators from a ship at Mumbai docks . Poyarekar 's spine-chilling tale despite such a massive danger inspired Rahane no end. " I also took him to the founder of the Vedanta Group , Swami Parthasarathy for a session on mental health. Since he has failed to deliver , he was feeling low and disturbed , " Amre revealed . The next task was sorting out the 'technical issues ' that had crept into his batting . " I had to work on his bat swing , which was slightly faulty at that time. With India set to play abroad for the next two years , I had to prepare him accordingly , and he worked hard , " Amre says . " For every tour , I prepared him differently. With South Africa and New Zealand , it was about negotiating bounce. Before the England tour , the focus was on coping with swing , " Amre said . The results show how successful the method has been. In between , there was his limited overs game to sort out too . Luckily for him , Rahane preferred the chance of starting in the first XI in the Rajasthan Royals to warming the benches of the Mumbai Indians in the IPL . " As an opener for the Royals , he proved those wrong who say he was n't cut out for slam-bang cricket. Once you have a tight technique , strokes and temperament like him , you can play any format of the game , " Amre says . Of course , Rahul Dravid 's mentoring at the Royals helped Rahane 's game blossom too. " Dravid was his childhood idol. It was the best thing to happen to him , " says Amre . What makes Rahane succeed outside India , at least so far ? The youngster has 670 runs in nine Tests at 44.66 , including two hundreds and four fifties , against some of the best attacks in the game. It ca n't be about his fabulous technique alone . " His commitment to the game is next to none , " says Amre before illustrating his point . " Before he went to England , we had an eight-day camp at BKC in Mumbai. His birthday ( June 5 ) fell during that period. He could have asked me for a 'break ' on that day and gone home. He did n't. I had to order a cake for him at the nets itself , " Amre reveals . Clearly , dedication has much to do with Rahane 's success story . On Tuesday , Amre was twitching his fingers nervously even as his 'student ' was smashing the England attack to pulp in the fourth ODI on way to his maiden ODI hundred . " With the World Cup approaching , there is so much competition for places. He needed a knock like that. This was the challenge when we started out - to make him perform abroad , " says Amre . Amre feels Rahane must open regularly in ODIs now. " During his last knock , he showed the ideal approach an opener needs to have. He hardly scored anything in the first four overs , before unleashing himself on James Anderson. He got back at Finn too. And the best part was he was playing classical strokes , and hitting sixes too , " Amre observed . Before India went to England , all the talk was centered around Virat Kohli and Cheshwar Pujara. No one seemed to be expecting much from Rahane . However , after his match-winning Test hundred at Lord 's and then a series-deciding ton in the Birmingham ODI , it can safely be said that 'Ajju ' has been India 's best batsman on this tour. He has emerged , somewhat , as a man for all seasons. Someone who can bat at several positions and in various formats . That gloomy evening at Kotla must now be a thing of past for Rahane . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
