Alastair Cook grateful for England support The author has posted comments on this article AFP | May 8 , 2014 , 07.24PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ABERDEEN : Alastair Cook said on Thursday the backing of his colleagues and team management had persuaded him to continue as England captain after he questioned his own position following a wretched Ashes series . Cook found himself under the spotlight after England 's recent 5-0 thrashing in Australia , a campaign where the opening batsman managed just 277 runs at an average of under 28 . Team director Andy Flower resigned and one-day coach Ashley Giles was axed following England 's embarrassing defeat by the Netherlands at the subsequent World Twenty20 in Bangladesh . " Disconnected " star batsman Kevin Pietersen was sent into international exile but the England and Wales Cricket Board hierarchy remained strong in their support of Cook . " I was asked about ( my future ) after Sydney and after a long , gruelling winter , I gave it consideration , " Cook , speaking in Aberdeen , where England play Scotland in a one-day international on Friday , told reporters . " I think it would be wrong if I did n't , " he added. " We 'd lost a lot of games and we had n't played to the standard that side was capable of , and the stuff we were doing was not making a difference . " If you do n't question your position as leader then , you never will. " But with backing from the likes of Stuart Broad and Ravi Bopara , a longstanding colleague of Cook at Essex as well as with England , the left-hander decided to carry on as skipper . " It was nice that the guys I spoke to , other members of the side , were very supportive and that 's good to hear , " Cook said . " I spoke to Stuart Broad and Ravi Bopara and they said 'no , you must carry on' . " The ECB ( England and Wales Cricket Board ) , since Paul Downton 's come in , they 've backed me and we 've got to justify that confidence . " It 's a great honour to captain England , when we walk out at the venues and they announce the England ( team ) led by me it 's a great feeling. But you 've got to be winning games of cricket. " England launch their new era against a Scotland side who will be among their pool opponents at next year 's World Cup in Australia and New Zealand . In many ways it is a classic 'no-win ' situation for England , who will be desperate to avoid fresh humiliation at the hands of an associate or non-Test nation following their Dutch debacle . " It is a banana skin fixture , " Cook said. " They ( Scotland ) are in a great position with nothing to lose and they 've got some talent. " Friday 's match will be the first of Moores 's second spell in charge after his first stint ended in 2009 after a falling out with Pietersen that saw the South Africa-born shotmaker stripped of the England captaincy . " Mooresy and I were together in 2007 and the ( England ) Academy before then so we know each other but it is new territory and it will take time to settle down , " Cook said . " We want to get back to winning ways. " For Scotland captain Kyle Coetzer , an opponent of Cook 's in county cricket where he now plays for Northamptonshire , there was huge pride at the prospect of leading the team out in his home town . " I was born and raised in Aberdeen. I 'm immensely looking forward to it , especially in Aberdeen , " he said . " Two new balls in any ODI in the UK can be a challenge. " England did n't have the winter they 'd like to have and hopefully we can bring back some bad memories. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
