Ambati Rayudu : Rebel to reliable foot soldier The author has posted comments on this article JAC Gladson , TNN | Feb 6 , 2015 , 08.31AM IST In the World Cup , Rayudu can bat up or down the order depending on the team 's requirements. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 The air was rife with expectation . A phone call from one of the Hyderabad Ranji players had galvanized the press corps into frenzied action. It was an invitation for a conference to be addressed by seven Hyderabad players intending to join the Indian Cricket League ( ICL ) , and hosted by Kaushik Reddy , a former medium-pacer . Barring Ambati Rayudu , the rest did not merit much attention but for the fact that it was the first mass exodus to the now defunct league. The season-opening KSCA tournament in Bangalore was where the plot had thickened. People in the know of things say Rayudu threw a major fit in the Bangalore dressing room , precipitating matters and , belying expectations , forced the players to defect . Expectations , then , were a recurrent theme in the life of this prodigy , not quite a flawed genius but an enfant terrible , before he realised his follies and put his career on the mend. A career which had all in a thrall ever since Rayudu came under the tutelage of Vijaya Paul . Born in Guntur on September 23 , 1985 , the seven-year old boy 's confidence was so high and timing so sweet that the coaches perforce had to move him to the senior 'nets'. For a 13-year-old to take on the might of the HCA A1 Division ( two-day league ) bowlers then was no mean task , but Rayudu was not just at home , he played them with time to spare . The hallmark of all good players came naturally to Rayudu and the right-hander with a quick eye and bad temper was soon making news for reasons right and wrong. He was the toast of the town when he scored 160-odd in a total of 180 his team posted in an Inter-school tournament , and though not an instant success on his Ranji debut against Himachal Pradesh - he scored 33 - Rayudu quickly showed he belonged with a 210 and 159 against Andhra in only his third Ranji match . He was part of the under-15 Asia Cup team with Roger Binny as the coach , led India U-19 in the World Cup in Dhaka with the likes of Suresh Raina and Irfan Pathan in the ranks , and his 177 in Taunton for India Colts on a tour of England earned praise from his idol Sachin Tendulkar . " Not getting along well with the team management " was one of the reasons given as Rayudu shifted base to Andhra for the 2004-05 season. Though people in the know knew of his frustration and helplessness with the state of affairs in the Hyderabad Cricket Association ( HCA ) , they could n't stop the move . Defiance , though , is inherent and it also shows in the way Rayudu dominates the bowlers. That move and the incident when the Hyderabad team had to beat a hasty retreat from Anantapur following their Ranji match there , threatened to stall Rayudu 's career . He was back with Hyderabad the next season. As luck would have it , the ICL opened shop in 2007. The ICL stint helped him grow as a player but an India return seemed impossible until the BCCI amnesty. Fortunately for Rayudu , his first Ranji captain - SL Venkatapathi Raju - was the coach when he returned to the fold. Then the IPL came calling and he wasted no time in accepting Tendulkar 's call to join Mumbai Indians . The big stage is no alien territory for Rayudu ; he 's been in all finals - Ranji , Irani , Duleep , Deodhar , Syed Mushtaq Ali tournament , IPL and CLT20 -and after moving base to Baroda , a string of big scores brought him into national reckoning. In the World Cup , Rayudu can bat up or down the order depending on the team 's requirements . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
