Anamul Haque suffers bad shoulder injury in Bangladesh win The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 5 , 2015 , 01.59PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Bangladesh batsman Anamul Haque has suffered a total separation of his right shoulder but it was too early to determine how long he would be out of action , the team said on Thursday . Haque suffered the injury in the 31st over of Scotland 's innings of 318 for eight in their World Cup Pool A clash at Saxton Oval in Nelson . The 22-year-old dived to stop a ball on the boundary and got to his feet with his right arm hanging limply by his side. He left the field and went to hospital for scans . " Anamul has been diagnosed with a right AC joint strain , grade three , " a team spokesman told reporters in Nelson after Bangladesh scored 322 for four to record a six-wicket victory . " The team management is in consultation with local medical experts on this particular injury and we will decide on the best possible management . " At the moment we 're not able to say how long it might take for him to recover. " A Grade Three injury results in a total separation of the shoulder joint and typically can take up to three months of rehabilitation if the person does not require surgery . Haque 's absence from the lineup did not prevent Bangladesh from calmly chasing down the total with Tamim Iqbal top-scoring with 95 and Shakib Al Hasan ( 52 not out ) and Sabbir Rahman ( 42 not out ) guiding Mashrafe Mortaza 's side home with 11 balls to spare to cap off the perfectly timed run chase . " The coach said that we should bat like we 're batting first and not to think about the total , " Iqbal said of how they approached the run chase . " We chased down a similar kind of score two or three years back against Zimbabwe and we batted in a similar way . " So rather than thinking about the scoreboard that 's extra special , we were just enjoying the wicket . " The wicket was fantastic and the outfield was really quick. So we did n't have to do too much because if we were timing the ball , then the ball was flying ( and ) that made it easy for us. " The victory moved Bangladesh to five points in Pool A and they now head to Adelaide for a showdown with England , who have just two points . Mortaza said Thursday 's game had been good preparation for Adelaide and their final game against New Zealand . " Our bowlers did not bowl well , but our batsmen got runs , especially with a big match coming up , " Mortaza said . " We will try our best against England , and if not them , then New Zealand definitely. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
