Anderson test awaits India at Brisbane The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 20 , 2015 , 09.40AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE : He has been a thorn in India 's side in recent times. After being rattled by Mitchell Starc at the MCG on Sunday , the Indian batsmen will face a stern James Andeson test when they take on England in their second tri-series match at the Gabba here on Tuesday afternoon . If India were expecting some respite by finally getting to play a team other than Australia on the tour , they could be in for disappointment , as Anderson , who had missed the opening game against Australia , is set to return to the team in place of Steve Finn . In hot and humid conditions ( with 60 % chance of rain disrupting the match ) , Anderson can be a handful for the Indian batsmen as he has the ability to swing the ball at a fair pace. India , seeking their first win on the tour , have their job cut out. They will have to tackle the English attack with verve and confidence. Surely , England , even after the way they were dealt with by Australia as the SCG , are not going to be easy meat . Having lost their respective opening matches to Australia , both England and India would be desperate to get on the points table. Losing two matches in a row will not be an ideal situation for either side when they take on the strong home side again on the second leg . India had their moments at the MCG on Sunday. They now need to build on the positives. The return to form of Rohit Sharma and Suresh Raina augurs well. If only Virat Kohli and Ajinkya Rahane also join in , then India can finally have their day in the sun. The sooner the two , who were so consistent in the Test series , get into the ODI groove , the better it would be for India . Despite Shikhar Dhawan 's poor form , skipper MS Dhoni has reposed confidence in him and is reluctant to make desperate changes in the team. " Changing and chopping after every match in not a remedy. We can not judge a player in just one game . " We need to be patient. Having said that , we have got our options and keeping in mind the World Cup , we will try out players when the need arises , " the Indian skipper said . India are preferring five bowlers , but that makes them a batsman short. Dhoni , who has high opinion of Stuart Binny as an all-rounder , must be eager to give him a game soon. But , surely , it wo n't be at the expense of one of the two spinners. If Mohammed Shami is not fit enough after walking away with a thigh strain at the MCG , then Binny might get a look-in. There were indications from the team management that Shami was ready to come back and bowl even at MCG , so hopefully he should be on the field on Tuesday . Dhoni had said before the Melbourne game that the players in the World Cup squad would be given preference. That means both Mohit Sharma and Dhawal Kulkarni will have to keep their fingers crossed for getting a game in the tri-series. Both have worked quite hard in the nets and have looked good , especially Mohit. It would be a shame it they return without playing a game . The English team too are hoping their top order gets going against India after being rattled by the Australian bowlers. Facing up to lesser bowlers than Mitchell Starc and Co would give them the opportunity and the confidence to get among the runs before they face up to the Aussies again at Hobart later this weekend . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
