Andeson verdict dampens Team India 's spirits The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 3 , 2014 , 06.25AM IST For the record , under ICC regulations BCCI has no right to appeal. Only ICC CEO Dave Richardson , if he feels injustice has occurred , can file an appeal. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MANCHESTER : The weather has been gloomy here for the past couple of days. Coincidentally , it got gloomier and started drizzling not long after the Indian contingent checked into the team hotel on Friday evening . The mood in the Indian camp reflected the weather as soon judicial commissioner Gordon Lewis returned a " not guilty " verdict against James Anderson - the touring team 's tormentor-in-chief , both on and off the field . The mood continued to be despondent on Saturday and there was no let-up in the weather as 'Do Not Disturb ' plates continued to hang from hotel room door handles long after noon as the Indian players rested their tired limbs and disturbed minds . The colossal loss of face , courtesy an astonishing verdict , will be hard to overcome. It is bound to weigh heavier on the Indian team than the 266-run pounding they received at the hands of a resurgent England in the third Test at the Ageas Bowl . With both England and Wales Cricket Board ( ECB ) and the Board of Control for India ( BCCI ) keeping their counsel after the learned Australian judge dismissed outright the spat between India 's Ravindra Jadeja and Anderson at Trent Bridge on July 10 , it is hard to say whether the last word on this contentious issue has been said . For the record , under ICC regulations BCCI has no right to appeal. Only ICC CEO Dave Richardson , if he feels injustice has occurred , can file an appeal . But what can be said with certainty is that in the absence of any relevant video evidence , Team India and the BCCI 's confidence of 'proving ' their case against Anderson was misplaced. It also certainly does not suggest that just because it was not captured on video does not mean that Jadeja had not been " abused " and " pushed " by Anderson . It also does not mean that the Indian captain , who was an eye-witness to the incident , is lying. If Dhoni 's testimony in course of the entire judicial process was not taken cognizance of by the relevant authorities , it only shows that he does not quite command the same stature in international cricket as Sachin Tendulkar . It may be recalled that in absence of any concrete evidence , the judicial commissioner had let Harbhajan Singh off the hook in the " Monkeygate " incident , influenced largely by Sachin 's testimony . Dhoni has every reason to feel aggrieved - even more than Jadeja - because in spite of daring to speak the truth and giving a detailed account of the incident to the media , his honesty has been called into question . A full and dispassionate analysis of the whole incident and the verdict can only be made after more details emerge , but by letting off both Jadeja and Anderson without even a rap on the knuckles , Lewis has also undermined the position of match referee David Boon , who had fined Jadeja 50 per cent of match fee . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
