Andrew Flintoff warms-up with club treble The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jun 1 , 2014 , 10.53AM IST England great Ian Botham warned Flintoff was making a " massive mistake " in coming out of retirement. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Andrew Flintoff prepared for his anticipated Lancashire comeback by taking three wickets for his old club side on Saturday . Friday saw Lancashire announce that the 36-year-old all-rounder was back in their Twenty20 squad five years after the former England captain 's injury-induced retirement . And ahead of his expected return to county duty in Lancashire 's Twenty20 clash at home to arch-rivals Yorkshire at Old Trafford this coming Friday , Flintoff took three for 26 in 12 overs , including five maidens for St Annes against Penrith in the Northern League . He fared less well with the bat , managing just two but St Annes , chasing 133 for victory , still won by two wickets . Flintoff told his Twitter followers : " Loving my day - 11 ( sic ) overs and great fun . " Had a bit if help from Watty the keeper for my first wicket , still not sure it carried. " After his brief innings , Flintoff added : " Blocked one to long off for 2 off 3 ! ! " England great Ian Botham warned Flintoff was making a " massive mistake " in coming out of retirement . Flintoff , like Botham a pace bowling all-rounder and ex-England captain , was forced to quit in 2009 , his ankles and knees having repeatedly suffered from the pounding they took as he charged in . " While I wish him all the very best , I think he is making a massive mistake , " Botham wrote in his column in Saturday 's Daily Mirror tabloid . " We 've not seen Fred on a cricket field since those memorable days in 2009 -- and five years is a long time out of the game . " For those that ca n't remember that far back , Fred had no choice but to quit cricket because of a chronic knee injury that had made walking difficult let alone bowling at 90 miles an hour , " Botham added . " Unless he 's managed to swap knees with someone , I do n't know how it has suddenly got better , allowing him to tear in and play the game properly . " To come back after five years out of the game and with that injury still in the background is a huge risk. I just hope he does not let himself down too badly. " But after Saturday 's club fixture , Flintoff responded by tweeting : " Thanks for your concerns aBeefyBotham but being happy is never a mistake ! " A powerful batsman and aggressive bowler , Flintoff 's greatest all-round series came when he scored 402 runs and took 24 wickets as England regained the Ashes 2-1 in 2005 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
