A new year and a new era under Virat Kohli The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Jan 1 , 2015 , 11.12AM IST Kohli thrives on seeking contests , but he has to pick the right battles to fight. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : The teams arrived on Wednesday to a city in thrall. It was a sight to see. Revellers camped near Sydney Harbour since 6 am. Drones buzzed high , eyes in the sky broadcasting the confusion of festivity . By early evening , all roads in the centre of the city were closed. By that time , of course , some had already passed out in the blazing mid-afternoon sun in George Street , only to rise like zombies in time for the midnight fireworks. It was a time to let go . Team India was no different. They had a new captain and a new direction , yet the old school lingered among them. Aggression and assault are the new motifs in this team. In Virat Kohli and Ravi Shastri , the team has an exciting new combo intent on bulldozing opponents and seizing the day . But this is Sydney , and they would do well to keep the pragmatist at hand. Memories of 'Monkeygate ' still linger and this series has n't been played in the best spirit. If anything , some players , on both sides , are awaiting the tipping point . MS Dhoni may have been an instinctive captain - if any more proof was needed , it came in the form of his abrupt , silent retirement on the last day of the Melbourne Test - but he was not given to rash expressions of belligerence . Not for nothing did he earn the sobriquet 'Captain Cool'. But stung by defeat upon defeat away from home as Dhoni 's Test captaincy went stale , India are now in danger of overstating the aggression . There are interesting parallels in the retirements of Dhoni and his predecessor Anil Kumble , who disappeared from view in the middle of a Test , also against Australia. Both were expected to take calm , rational decisions on their exit , not make spur-of-the-moment power statements . Yet Virat Kohli would do well to revisit Kumble 's clever statesman approach when the Harbhajan-Symonds affair struck here in 2008. India 's new captain thrives on seeking contests , but he has to pick the right battles to fight. He may not have Kumble , but he has MS Dhoni 's prudence at hand . " Only one team is playing cricket in the right spirit , " Kumble had declared in 2008 , leaving no doubt which team it was . " We have n't started yet , " said Australia coach Darren Lehmann after the third Test , when asked if riling Kohli up had backfired for Steve Smith 's men in the series . " There are always some who ca n't keep their cool. I have my targets , " Kohli had declared a day earlier . The portents for Sydney do n't look good , specifically because India may have a combative new captain still some years from finding his poise in the heat of battle . It is here , in the build-up to Sydney , a place emblematic of the hostile cricketing relations between India and Australia that MS Dhoni 's biggest contribution as Test captain needs to be remembered . It was not in providing the hope of excitement with the bat at No. 7 , or the deft glovework behind the stumps , or the hit-and-miss field placements. It lay in calming the team down with an iron hand in moments of intensive competitiveness . On his last day in office , Dhoni accepted he had not been able , this time around , to keep things in check as the Kohlis and Sharmas clashed with rival players and umpires . " A lot of what is spoken on the ground I do n't really know anymore , " he said , " I just told my players not to abuse anyone. That is unacceptable. I do n't really know what is happening between the runner and the mid-off fielder. That is something I have no control over and it becomes very difficult to handle. It is up to the individuals to handle it. " It was an admission , however veiled , that his authority had eroded . Dhoni 's successor Kohli would do well to remember how important it is not to get carried away in the moment. There was a point in Adelaide when Kohli got into a heated argument with an opposition player , and then suddenly seemed to remember he was captain and needed to behave differently. It was funny to watch , but also an indication that Captain Cool 's guiding hand will be missed by this team . Sydney is gyrating to the New Year , but in six days ' time India would n't want to run rings around Australia on the subject of sledging . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
