Anil Kumble inducted into ICC Hall of Fame The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 22 , 2015 , 10.01PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Former India captain Anil Kumble was today inducted into the International Cricket Council Hall of Fame at the Melbourne Cricket Ground . Kumble is just the fourth Indian to be included in the elite group , joining Sunil Gavaskar , Kapil Dev and Bishan Bedi . Australian legend Betty Wilson was also inducted into the ICC Hall of Fame on Sunday , along with Kumble. " It 's an honour to be inducted into the ICC Cricket Hall of Fame , " Kumble said . " Indeed , it will be a great moment of pride to receive it during the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 at the Melbourne Cricket Ground I deem it as a great privilege to join the list of great cricketing luminaries , " he added . The 44-year-old played 132 Tests for India , capturing 619 wickets and became the second man in history to take 10 wickets in an innings when he dismantled Pakistan in 1999 to finish with figures of 10-74 . " Anil was an outstanding international cricketer , a very well-respected opponent , a great statesman for his country and a role model for millions of aspiring cricketers , " said ICC Chief Executive David Richardson . " He played hard but within the spirit of the game. His performance and record speak volumes for his tenacity , commitment , endurance and service to the game. " Alongside Kumble , Wilson becomes the second Australian woman in the Hall of Fame behind champion batter Belinda Clark . Wilson , considered one of the greatest female cricketers of all-time , played 11 Tests between 1947 and 1958 , scoring 862 runs at an average of 57.4 and claimed 68 wickets at 11.8 runs apiece. In 1957 against England , Wilson became the first cricketer , male or female , to take score a century and take 10 wickets in a Test . Kumble and Wilson become the 77th and 78th inductees into the Hall of Fame . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
