An uneasy wait ahead of BCCI elections The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Dec 2 , 2014 , 10.50AM IST Srinivasan maintained his defiant self , shuttling between the India Cements office and a five-star hotel in the city , where the partnership of MRF and ICC was announced for the World Cup next year. Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : Time is slowly running out for N Srinivasan. The Supreme Court 's decision to slot the next hearing on December 8 ensures an uneasy week for the ruling group , but they still maintain a defiant stance . The Srinivasan group is hoping that there will be an interim order by next Tuesday , so that it becomes clear whether he can contest for the BCCI election on December 17 or not . " The AGM is unlikely to go back beyond December 17 . We hope something comes out of the hearing over next Monday and Tuesday , " a source told TOI . Srinivasan maintained his defiant self , shuttling between the India Cements office and a five-star hotel in the city , where the partnership of MRF and ICC was announced for the World Cup next year . The ICC chairman said that he did n't believe the reputation of cricket had been tarnished by the controversies and refused to entertain any questions on why MS Dhoni should not be removed as vice-president of India Cements . When somebody pushed him for an answer saying : " You should answer that question , " Srinivasan shot back : " Why should I ? " There is a growing impatience in some circles about the fate of his presidentship . In case Srinivasan does n't get the Supreme Court nod , Rajeev Shukla , one of the North Zone vice-presidents , is apparently " very keen to take over " . But the Srinivasan camp still maintains that Shukla is unlikely to garner the support from the East and there is no one else but Jagmohan Dalmiya to become the next president . A member has to be either a vice-president or a former office-bearer to contest for the post of the president . There are only a handful of people from East - KP Kajaria , Goutam Roy , Chitrak Mitra , Arindam Ganguly , Goutam Dasgupta and Dalmiya himself - who are eligible and among them the former BCCI and ICC president is still an odds-on favorite . " The East Zone members want it from their zone and as of now we have n't heard Shukla has been able to garner the support. In case Srinivasan ca n't take over , it should be Dalmiya , " a source added . There 's another big player - BJP - which has n't yet shown its cards. BJP , which has control over 11 affiliated units , is unlikely to come into the picture if Srinivasan gets the Supreme Court clearance. But in case of a negative verdict , it might play a role and things could change fast . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
