Anurag Thakur downplays ICC president 's 'controversial umpiring ' claims The author has posted comments on this article ANI | Mar 20 , 2015 , 02.50PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Board of Control for Cricket ( BCCI ) secretary Anurag Thakur on Friday downplayed ICC president Mustafa Kamal 's 'controversial umpiring ' claims following Bangladesh 's 109-run defeat against India , saying the time has come to move ahead and look for the semifinals . Thakur , however , said that Kamal should have raised this issue on the ICC platform during the meetings . " ICC president has raised many issues. I wish he could have taken all these issues on the ICC platform during the ICC meetings. Now , it is a reality that we have won against Bangladesh and India has won all the previous games at the league stage , " Thakur said . " I think the time has come to move ahead and look for the semifinals. We can discuss these things in the next meetings , " he added . Meanwhile , former cricketer Kirti Azad said there are human errors and added that the umpires also commit errors . " But then you have the DRS ( Decision Review System ) system where you can go and ask for review. Secondly , I think except for Rohit Sharma 's decision of no-ball , which I again think was a human error , there was nothing wrong , " said Azad . " He is talking about 12 decisions ; he should let us know which 12 decisions , " he added . Azad further said that the giant screens should be used to display only game related information . " Yes I do agree with him that on the giant screen you should only be giving the information about the ICC , the matches that are going to be played , or the scores and other information. They should n't be putting up things like 'Jeetega bhai jeetega , India jeetega ' , or 'Australia jeetega'. Those things should not come up because ICC is supposed to be neutral , " he added . The ICC chief , who reportedly threatened to quit over the umpiring in his country 's quarterfinal defeat to India in the World Cup , said that the umpires ' decisions seemed to have been 'pre-arranged' . Kamal was reportedly angry that Indian opener Rohit Sharma , who top-scored with 137 , had not been given not out on 90 when he was caught at deep mid-wicket off the bowling of Rubel Hossain . India on Thursday beat Bangladesh by 109 runs at a packed Melbourne Cricket Ground , with Rohit Sharma scoring a blistering 137 to prop the Men in Blue to a competitive total of 302-6. Umesh Yadav , with brilliant bowling figures of 4-31 , was instrumental in restricting the opposition to a mere 193 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
