A prodigy who has blossomed late The author has posted comments on this article JAC Gladson , TNN | Nov 7 , 2014 , 11.12AM IST It was not long before the IPL came calling and Rayudu did n't think twice before accepting Tendulkar 's call to join the Mumbai Indians. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 HYDERABAD : Many years after being talked about as the next big thing in Indian cricket , Ambati Rayudu is showing the world the stuff he is made of . His first ODI century for India , an unbeaten 121 in Ahmedabad on Thursday , could n't have come at a better time for the 29-year-old , who had , at a young age , caught the eye of the pundits here for his remarkable ability to pick the length of the ball very early and essay shots with time to spare . " He came to me when he was just seven , learnt the basics and quickly graduated to the regular nets. Seeing his talent , we put him in the senior nets and he proved us right by scoring a century in the HCA A1 Division two-day league match when he was just 13 , " his first coach Vijay Paul told TOI on Thursday . The local media was soon abuzz with his exploits after he scored 160 odd runs out of the 180 plus his team scored in an inter-school meet. His rise continued to be steady and two centuries on his Ranji Trophy debut for Hyderabad against Andhra only heightened expectations . He was part of the U-15 Asia Cup team , led the India U-19 team in the World Cup in Dhaka , where the likes of Suresh Raina and Irfan Pathan played under him and his century for India Colts in Taunton , England earned praise from Sachin Tendulkar . Thereabouts , the wheels came off. A spat with HCA meant he had to shift base to Andhra for a season following which he came back to Hyderabad , but the move to the now defunct Indian Cricket League ( ICL ) went against him . So while his peers and juniors went up the rungs to play for India , Rayudu toiled in the domestic league after his return to the Hyderabad team following BCCI 's amnesty to ICL players returning to the fold . It was not long before the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) came calling and Rayudu did n't think twice before accepting Tendulkar 's call to join the Mumbai Indians , for whom he has been a consistent performer. " Just to share the same dressing room as my idol Sachin is an unbelievable feeling , " he had remarked then. He also shifted base to Baroda , where after a string of big scores , he came back into national reckoning once again . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
