Are WAGs really a distraction ? The author has posted comments on this article Rupam Jain , TNN | Aug 22 , 2014 , 05.10PM IST " Even if players wanted to focus on cricket , their wives were a big distraction. When some wanted to go to the gym or do nets , they could n't do so because their wives wanted to explore the city. " Page 1 of 4 " I would have objected to her ( Anushka Sharma 's ) presence , but was helpless when I realised that permission was granted by Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) secretary Sanjay Patel. I doubt whether the secretary even spoke to the interim BCCI president Shivlal Yadav before granting permission. I am sure he ( Yadav ) would have turned down the request. Anushka stayed with Virat till the third Test. Foreign players do take their girlfriends on tours , but India 's culture is different. Indian society does n't allow girlfriends on tour like this. " This is what Sunil Dev , the manager for India 's Test leg of the England tour , reportedly said after India 's poor show. This has given rise to many debates , with many terming this as 'sports sexism'. Kavitha Krishnan , secretary of AIPWA , is one of them . Krishnan took to her micro-blogging page posting , " Team India manager says girlfriends on tour 'not our culture'. Wives , GFs blamed for defeat , fatwa on their travel to matches. Sports sexism ! " ( sic ) Earlier , talking about India 's 3-1 loss to England , a top BCCI official had reportedly stated , " Even if players wanted to focus on cricket , their wives were a big distraction. When some wanted to go to the gym or do nets , they could n't do so because their wives wanted to explore the city. " Former Indian cricketer Bishen Singh Bedi , says he feels 'disgusted ' at this 'primitve thought'. " We are all set to make ourselves look like a bunch of idiots. The foreign media and players must be having a field day laughing over such statements. How can wives be blamed for poor show by players ? This is such disgusting primitive thought ; most unwanted and irresponsible statement I have heard. Come on , for heaven 's sake , we are in the 21st century and here we are blaming the wives and girlfriends ? Sad ! " he says . Bedi further says that the least someone could have done is to act a little more responsibly. " It just looks like a way to hide the poor planning and preparation. If a player did defy team discipline , he can be hauled up. But the way things are being put , it seems it 's wrong for a player to have a wife or a girlfriend ! My wife has accompanied me on tours when I played , and she was never a distraction. Sportspeople keep travelling and have very little time to spend with family. But if wives and girlfriends are banned or hauled up for players ' not performing on the field , it 's really very stupid and like I said , primitive. " Former India captain Kapil Dev says players should not be expected to live for months without meeting their partners . " Wives and girlfriends can not be blamed for a loss. I do n't know today 's cricket culture , so it wo n't be correct for me to comment on somebody else 's opinion. But I can speak about our times. I think wives or girlfriends should accompany players on tours , but not in the first half. I always believed that. For example , if a tour is for three months , the wives and girlfriends should n't be there for the first month , because that 's the time when the team should stay together , eat together , spend time together , so that they get to know each other and bond better. When we used to go to England , Australia , and West Indies , to play for 2-3 months , we used to decide this ourselves. In the second half , they must come , because you ca n't expect that we do n't meet our wives or they do n't meet us for three months. We used to travel for 10 months in a year and not getting to meet your wives... that 's unfair. And now , you have lost a series , that does not mean you blame the wives and girlfriends ! But it 's for the Board to decide , " he shares . Shuttler Chetan Anand , who often travels with his wife on tours , scoffs at this suggestion , saying , " This is the most unreasonable excuse I have ever heard. Instead of talking about what actually went wrong , in perhaps planning and strategy , officials are busy blaming the wives and girlfriends ! I travel with my wife , and I can say she is n't a distraction. We are professional sportspeople and I am sure cricketers know their responsibilities. If they have lost a series , it means the team and performance has to be evaluated and not the wives or girlfriends presence on the tour. " On a concluding note , Bishen Singh Bedi asserts that the need of the hour , is to " not shatter the players ' confidence. It 's a game. You win some , you lose some. Own it up and stay quiet. And do n't act like idiots in pointing fingers at wives and girlfriends. They are not the distractions. " Twitterati takes : Rounaq Nayak @ rounaq_26 : If bringing a girlfriend along for a match causes Team India to lose matches , they should start playing matches in traditional Indian attire Pankaj Mishra @ pankajmishra23 : Another 'culture ' lecture ! 'Team India Manager : 'Our Culture Does n't Allow Girlfriends on Tour' Srijith @ srijith : " Indian society does n't allow girlfriend on tour like this. " Can someone pass me the " Indian society " rule book ? Rajesh Ahuja @ ManShunNot : We 're a special breed of nincompoops. Our culture does not allow girlfriends on tour : Indian Cricket Team Manager Sourav Pradhan @ drsouravpradhan : Team India banned to take wives and girlfriends along... Aur kitna neeche giraoge in logon ko.. . Rahul Bose @ RahulBose1 : Only more mystifying than India 's form is the BCCI 's decision to ban wives/girlfriends. Helps team play swing , catch , bowl better ? Nandagopal J Nair @ Njnair : Really , this is the answer to Team India 's woes ? @ BCCI diagnosis of defeat : restrict company of wives & girlfriends KnottyGal @ VNezz2 : Most ppl would n't have noticed that @ DineshKarthik was with @ DipikaPallikal during the CWG when she won the Gold . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
