Ashraf takes charge as Pakistan turmoil rolls on The author has posted comments on this article AFP | May 19 , 2014 , 07.00PM IST Ashraf was restored to the chairmanship of the Pakistan Cricket Board ( PCB ) by a court ruling on Saturday , reigniting the chaos that has raged for month 's among the game 's administrators. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LAHORE : Pakistan 's reinstated cricket chief Zaka Ashraf took charge of the national board Monday , with the future of national head coach Waqar Younis and batting coach Grant Flower hanging in the balance . Ashraf was restored to the chairmanship of the Pakistan Cricket Board ( PCB ) by a court ruling on Saturday , reigniting the chaos that has raged for month 's among the game 's administrators . Ashraf has said he will review all decisions taken in the last three months by Najam Sethi , the man thrown out as chairman by the Islamabad High Court order . In a detailed ruling issued Monday , the court cancelled all decisions taken by the Sethi 's team , including the appointment of Waqar and Flower , as well as chief selector Moin Khan and spin bowling coach Mushtaq Ahmed . " The court judgment says that all decisions in my absence are nullified but I will review them , " Ashraf told reporters at PCB headquarters in Lahore . Flower and Ahmed were appointed only last week , while confirmation of Waqar 's return for a second spell as head coach came on May 6 . Pakistan face a busy summer of preparations as they look to build their talented but raw side into serious contenders for next year 's World Cup . This is the third time Ashraf has been reinstated as PCB chairman since being suspended last May over doubts about his election -- all decisions taken by the Islamabad high court . He has alternated with Sethi in the post , throwing the running of Pakistani cricket into turmoil at a crucial time for the sport internationally . The International Cricket Council ( ICC ) introduced major changes to the sport 's governance and financing earlier this year , handing significant powers to the so-called " Big Three " of India , England and Australia . Pakistan abstained on the matter at an ICC meeting in February but last month offered " conditional support " for the plan , a move Ashraf said he would now look at again . " My principle stance was that the revamp is not good for international cricket but now if the PCB ( led by Sethi ) has signed the draft we will only look into it and not make Pakistan a laughing stock , " he said . The proposal will be formally approved at ICC Annual conference in Australia next month . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
