Aussie curators face flak from Harris , Johnson The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Jan 4 , 2015 , 08.44AM IST The Aussies are toying with the idea of including two spinners for Sydney but coach Darren Lehmann seemed confused. " Traditionally it spins , but last year it seamed , " he said about the SCG. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Did the flatter-than-usual pitches in Adelaide , Brisbane and Melbourne lead to Mitchell Johnson 's strained hamstring ? The Indian batsmen have n't been complaining but both Johnson and teammate Ryan Harris are ruing the lack of juice in the pitches for this series . The Gabba , in particular , failed to live up to its reputation as a haven for the notoriously bouncing ball , while both Adelaide and Melbourne have drop-in pitches which tend to be on the flatter side . Ahead of the Test in Sydney , which has traditionally been friendly to batsmen and spinners , Johnson said the flatter pitches had forced his captains to use him for longer spells and he would take up the issue with the team management . " I 've been bowling longer spells. That 's been at the back of mind , that I ca n't go flat out every ball. It 's been a big 15 months so it 's tough crick et. I 'd like to bowl shorter spells. " Johnson , who skipped training with a sore hamstring on Saturday , agreed the nature of the pitches had been a factor. On the unvarying Melbourne 's surface , he said , " You like a wicket to break up , that 's what you expect from a five-day wicket. It looked like a three-day wicket at the end of it.It happened in Adelaide as well.Obviously we had the footmarks there , which was helpful for Nathan Lyon , but the middle of the wicket has been disappointing. " Harris on Saturday lent weight to Johnson 's tirade , saying , " He ( Johnson ) was along the right path going on about the wickets. I do n't think the wickets have been fast and bouncy. We 've got results in two of the Test matches but as a bowling group we 're always going to say we need a bit more bounce and a bit more grass. Not having that is frustrating. " Harris , like Johnson , sounded bitter about the fact that Indians tailor-made their wickets for spin on the last tour and the Aussies have n't reciprocated with bouncy surfaces . " We go to India and get absolute shockers over there so it would be nice to get some green tops over here , " said Harris. Johnson , who is doubtful for the Sydney Test , went along , saying , " We lost four-nil over there ( India ) on some pretty ordinary wickets. We were hoping for them to come over here and play on some good , bouncy wickets. " Cricket Australia 's decision to share some cricketing venues with Aussie Rules football , it seems , may have altered the traditional nature of the pitches. That does n't , however , explain the unthreatening nature of the Gabba surface in this series . The Aussies are toying with the idea of including two spinners for Sydney but coach Darren Lehmann seemed confused. " Traditionally it spins , but last year it seamed , " he said about the SCG . Maybe it 'll turn out to be more helpful for the pacers than anticipated but Johnson and Harris did n't seem very hopeful. " Even the Gabba is n't the normal Gabba. Wickets have been suited for the batters more than anything , " said Johnson . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
