Australian players celebrate with champagne after winning the ICC World Cup final against New Zealand in Melbourne on Sunday. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Ozzie , Ozzie , Ozzie...yeah , yeah , yeah ! Young Australian cricket fans , guzzling down from the beer buckets , ran from one gate to the other outside the magnificent Melbourne Cricket Ground , singing , chanting and hollering till lager lethargy began to set in . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 They sat for a moment to catch their breath. And then , they ran again. The fun would go on till there was beer. And beer would flow all night . A few men , relatively older , stood in a corner and cheered. Given their age , it was for the umpteenth time that they were watching such young men revel in an Aussie win. For those with grey hair , said one gentleman , celebration was 1987. " It 's been Australia ever since , " he said . Scorecard | As it happened : Australia vs New Zealand | Match in Pics True. Sunday night was the night to raise a toast to the team that 's been ruining competition since 1999. There was yellow and green and gold strewn across the field and the stands after Michael Clarke and his men lifted the trophy . Only this time , it was Melbourne. But rewind the years. Kolkata , London , Johannesburg , Barbados , they 've seen the colours before . 1987 was the year Australia won the World Cup for the first time , having to wait for three editions before they could lay their hands on the trophy. Ever since , all their title wins that followed - 1999 , 2003 and 2007 - have been tediously one-sided . Australian players shower champagne on team captain Michael Clarke ( centre ) as they celebrate after winning the ICC World Cup final against New Zealand. ( AFP Photo ) On Sunday , they hammered New Zealand by seven wickets with 101 balls to spare. It was Australia 's fifth World Cup win in 29 years , eight World Cups and six finals. The only one they lost was to Sri Lanka in 1996 , a slip-up - given their record now - which they adequately made up for . The Aussies do n't just enjoy victories anymore. Or so it seems. It 's the lack of competition , or they are way above the rest that makes them proud of their accomplishments . " Who 're you supporting ? " they ask in this part of the world. If you say Australia , you 're one of them , expected to join them for a round of beer. If you mention any other team , " no chance " , they say . Nevertheless , there was little to suggest after Sunday night 's triumph that the routine had turned a tad boring after five World Cup victories . Pop blared from the speakers at full blast. Border , Waugh , Warne and the likes joined . The Australians also know how to make it special for their dear ones . The entire team walked out wearing black armbands in memory of the departed Phil Hughes and Clarke said they played with 16 men. Every Aussie team member , added the skipper , would have two beers to celebrate the moment - one for the Cup and another for Phil . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
