Aussie media lavish tributes on Benaud The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Apr 11 , 2015 , 10.43AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Australia 's media reflected on the life of cricket great and esteemed broadcaster Richie Benaud in effusive tributes on Saturday . Benaud , who had been fighting skin cancer and suffered serious injury in a car accident in late 2013 , passed away in his sleep early Friday at age 84 . Overall Benaud played in or commentated on approximately 500 Test matches and has been lauded as the most influential Australian cricketer and broadcaster of his era . The Sydney Morning Herald carried a 12-page wrap-around tribute , while the front cover of Sydney 's Daily Telegraph remembered " a marvellous innings " and followed with five pages on the cricket icon in the news section and more in sports . " Benaud the cricketer was as Benaud the commentator , a little apart from and above the rest , " Greg Baum wrote in Melbourne 's The Age newspaper . " Benaud 's cricket commentary spoke for itself. Inimitably , it is tempting to add , but the fact is that it was imitated all the time and everywhere . " It was imitation in its sincerest form , nearer to idolatry than flattery. " Malcolm Knox , writing in The Sydney Morning Herald , focused on Benaud 's playing career of 63 Test matches and never losing a series as captain , which ran for 28 games from 1958 . " As a cricketer , Benaud was more than a symbol of post-war liberality , an icon , with his unbuttoned shirt and emotional celebrations , of the change in style from 1948 , when he played his first first-class game , to 1964 , when he played his last : from Peggy Lee to the Beatles , " he said . " As a cricketer , Benaud was among the best Australia has ever produced. " Author Gideon Haigh said in The Australian newspaper : " Benaud the commentator seldom referred to his on-field experiences and accomplishments - a shrewd expedient which had the effect of making him seem almost ageless - and was amused when young admirers inquired innocently whether he had been a player . " In fact , Benaud would rank among Test cricket 's elite leg-spinners and captains had he never uttered or written a word about the game. " Jim Maxwell , the doyen of Australia 's radio cricket commentary , said of Benaud : " If cricket had ever anointed a pope it would be Richie Benaud . " He has been the most influential , revered and respected person in the game for 50 years. As Australian captain he never lost a series. As a commentator he was precise , authoritative and deliciously understated . " Richie was the master of the pause. Silence marked him as the best exponent of television 's essential craft ; let the picture tell the story , then utter appropriate gravitas , a memorably droll bon mot. " Prime Minister Tony Abbott has offered a state funeral to Benaud 's family , describing his death as " a sad day for Australia " . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
