Aussie player Daniel hit on head , survives after brief unconsciousness The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jan 24 , 2015 , 10.01PM IST Daniel , a promising batsman who also plays in the Big Bash for Sydney Thunder , dropped his hands onto his knees as concerned opposition and teammates raced to his aid . Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Bringing back memories of the tragic death of Philip Hughes in November last , an Australian cricketer Daniel Hughes was left unconscious briefly after being hit by an almost identical bouncer on his neck during a first grade match but fortunately escaped unscathed , local media reported . Batting for Northern Districts against Blacktown at Mark Taylor Oval in Sydney , Daniel attempted a hook shot off a bouncer from bowler Cameron Nupier but the delivery hit him on the back of his neck , underneath his cricket helmet and he was rushed to the Hornsby hospital . 25-year-old Daniel , a promising batsman who also plays in the Big Bash for Sydney Thunder , dropped his hands onto his knees as concerned opposition and teammates raced to his aid . The impact of the delivery " left a lump on the side of Daniel 's head of the size of a cricket ball " but after several tests and CT scans , he was cleared of any major damage and discharged from the hospital . The impact of the ball on Daniel 's neck was just millimeters from the same main artery which killed Phillip Hughes , a report in 'Herald Sun ' said . " His neck was swelling up and we thought 'oh God ' , " Northern Districts president Mike Langford was quoted as saying by the report . Play was suspended until Daniel was assisted from the pitch and an ambulance called . Daniel 's girlfriend Erin Molan said that he played junior cricket with Philip . " He ( Daniel ) has got the lump on the side of his head the size of a cricket ball , it 's horrendous. I do n't think I 've ever been so scared in my life , " Daniel 's girlfriend Erin Molan said . " It 's unbelievable and given their same surname ( Hughes ) it 's quite terrifying. Daniel played a lot of cricket growing up with Phil through the juniors. We 're all just glad he 's OK , " she said . Philip died in November last year after being hit on the neck during a domestic Sheffield Shield match at the SCG just before the start of India 's Test tour of Australia , plunging the cricketing world to a state of shock . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
