Aussies play their best , they 'll win final , says Clarke The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 28 , 2015 , 12.02PM IST Australia 's captain Michael Clarke fields during a training session ahead of the 2015 Cricket World Cup final against New Zealand. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Michael Clarke is adamant about Australia 's chances of winning a record fifth World Cup , claiming on Saturday : " I believe if we play our best , we can beat New Zealand tomorrow. " Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Bookmakers have installed the Aussies as 9-4 ON favourites to win the tournament decider at the Melbourne Cricket Ground with the Black Caps playing in their first World Cup final . The Kiwis have been the form team , winning all of their eight matches , including a nerve-tingling one-wicket win over Clarke 's team in Auckland in the pool stage , but now they must play their first game in the tournament away from home . " I believe if we play our best , we can beat New Zealand , " Clarke told reporters Saturday. " I do n't buy into the favourites or not favourites . " New Zealand have been the form team of the competition. New Zealand have beaten us once in this tournament. But I 'm confident if we play our best , we can beat them tomorrow. " Clarke , who dropped a retirement bombshell by announcing that Sunday 's World Cup final will be his 245th and last one-day international for his country , said winning was about the team and not for his circumstances . " It 's a special game , no doubt about it , but it needs to be about the team and I want it to be about the team , " he said . " I 've just said it to my teammates. And I 've been the one to come out and say , it 's not emotion , it 's skill that helps you win major games and major tournaments , and tomorrow will be no different . " It 's a wonderful opportunity for every single player in that change room to walk out onto the MCG in a World Cup final. It 's a very special event. But yeah , it 's no more special because it 's my last game. " Clarke said his wanted his teammates to go out before an anticipated 90,000 full house in a high-stakes game and play with freedom . " I 've been fortunate enough to play in two previous World Cups and win one of those. So I know what the feeling is like , " he said . " Even when I think back to 2007 , there was such a buildup about the World Cup final , but the emotion and the adrenaline and the feeling did n't hit me until after the game when we were celebrating together as a team. " Given his decision to retire from ODIs , Clarke said he was unaware if other senior teammates , notably Shane Watson and Mitchell Johnson , were also contemplating quitting the shorter form of the game . " I think everybody in that dressing room has a lot more cricket left in their body. That 's for sure , " said Clarke . " If the desire is still there and they 're playing for the right reasons , then I do n't see any reason why they would stop . " I have n't spoken to any of them about their individual decisions , how they feel , what they 're going to do . " My main focus has been making sure everyone is fit and healthy and feeling good about this tournament. If they want to continue , I think it 'll be left up to them. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
