Australia bowl out New Zealand for 183 in World Cup final The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 29 , 2015 , 01.04PM IST Australia 's captain Michael Clarke ( centre ) celebrates with teammates as they walk off the field after dismissing New Zealand during their World Cup final at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : New Zealand succumbed against hostile Australia bowling to be shot out for 183 in the World Cup final in front of a record crowd of more than 91,000 at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on Sunday . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Inspirational captain Brendon McCullum fell off the fifth ball of the innings for a duck and two other frontline batsmen , Corey Anderson and Luke Ronchi , also failed to score . South Africa-born Grant Elliott top-scored with 83 , sharing a fourth-wicket stand of 111 with Ross Taylor ( 40 ) after New Zealand had been reduced to 39 for three in the 13th over . Left-arm fast bowlers Mitchell Starc , James Faulkner and Mitchell Starc shared eight wickets to put Australia firmly in line to win their fifth World Cup title . Packed stands broke the MCG record of 91,112 on the opening day of the Boxing Day Test against England in 2013. The official figure will be announced during the Australian innings . " Obviously it 's a pretty good start by the boys and there 's no reason we ca n't chase the runs. We 've been working really hard on our fielding and it was another good performance , " said Faulkner . New Zealand went into the final as the only unbeaten team in the 14-nation tournament , their eight wins including a one-wicket success over Australia in a low scoring pool stage thriller . But Australian bowlers dominated the session on Sunday which began with McCullum being yorked by Starc in the first over of the match . Starc 's two wickets in the innings took his tally to 22 , one more than New Zealander Trent Boult 's haul , to take over as the highest wicket-taker in the tournament . Martin Guptill surpassed Sri Lankan Kumar Sangakkara 's 541 runs to become the tournament 's leading run-getter when he reached 10 , but he managed to add just five runs more . The tall opener , who hit a World Cup record score of 237 not out against the West Indies in the quarter-finals , was bowled trying to cut Glenn Maxwell 's second delivery when the off-spinner was brought on in the 12th over . Next over , Johnson took an easy return catch to dismiss Kane Williamson for 12 and reduce New Zealand to 39 for three . Taylor and Elliott settled in to build a strong partnership and had taken the total to 150-3 when the batting powerplay began after the 35th over . Australian captain Michael Clarke , playing in his final one-day international , handed the first over of the powerplay to Faulkner and the left-arm seamer responded with the wickets of Taylor and Anderson in the space of three deliveries . Faulkner had Taylor caught behind by a diving Brad Haddin first ball , a decision that was referred to the TV umpire to ensure the low catch had been taken cleanly . Faulkner then bowled Anderson two balls later and Starc had Ronchi , a former Australian international , taken at first slip by Clarke as the Black Caps slipped from a comfortable 150 for three to 151 for six . New Zealand lost their last seven wickets for 33 runs to be bowled out in 45 overs . Both sides fielded unchanged teams from their semi-final wins where Australia beat India and New Zealand downed South Africa in a penultimate-ball thriller . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
