Australia face Doherty dilemma ahead of semifinal The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 24 , 2015 , 11.34AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : With two confident teams going head-to-head in a blockbuster World Cup semifinal on Thursday , it could be the tiniest misjudgement , the smallest detail that decides whether Australia or India emerge triumphant . Disregarding perhaps only the toss , Australia 's biggest decision this week is likely to be whether to include spinner Xavier Doherty in their side to face the world champions . Much , of course , will depend on the wicket , which on Tuesday afternoon was covered by a huge white blanket as rain tumbled down on the Sydney Cricket Ground ( SCG ) . If , as coach Darren Lehmann expects , it is a similar track to that on which Australia beat Sri Lanka in the pool stage , Doherty 's contribution might be restricted to handing out water bottles . If , however , it is more similar to the wicket on which spinners Imran Tahir and JP Duminy took seven wickets in South Africa 's quarterfinal win over the Sri Lankans last week , Doherty might be set for his second start . The trouble for Australia is that despite the SCG 's tradition for offering turn , it is not always that easy to tell in advance whether a track will or not . " Last time we played here , it looked like the wicket would spin quite a bit but it did n't , it played really true , " Australia opener Aaron Finch said on Tuesday . " It 's still two days out from the game so it 's hard to tell , the wicket can change quite a bit here in Sydney in two days. " Left-armer Doherty did play against Sri Lanka , going for sixty runs without adding to his less-than-stellar tally of 55 wickets in 60 one-day internationals . Australia captain Michael Clarke is a big fan of including a spin bowler , especially at his home ground , but is no longer a selector . The committee that meets to decide which players Clarke will lead on Thursday may decide that Australia 's part-time slow bowlers -- Glenn Maxwell , Steve Smith , David Warner , even Clarke himself -- have enough quality to carry the load . Certainly , in a perfect world , Australia would like to retain right-arm quick Josh Hazlewood to get stuck into India 's highly-regarded corps of batsmen along with the 'Mitchs ' , first choice left-armers Johnson and Starc . Even though Doherty was given a long workout in the nets on Tuesday , Johnson thinks it is likely Hazlewood will stay and Australia will be unchanged for the first time in the World Cup . " It 's looking that way , that we 'll have the same 11 , " he told Fox Sports at the SCG . " The bowling group 's been going really well. Joshy Hazlewood bowled really well in the last game. To have that stability is really important. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
