Australian aboriginals support India to win The author has posted comments on this article Kounteya Sinha , TNN | Mar 25 , 2015 , 09.46PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Michael Parkins grew up with the Waugh brothers. Many believe he was equally good if not better in cricket than them during their high school years . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 But having come from an aboriginal background with little opportunities , Michael had to sacrifice his true love for the " beautiful game " in order to pursue a career that could be called stable . Michael was adopted when young and raised by a non-aboriginal family. But when he turned 20 , he traced back his original family from Western New South Wales . Even on Wednesday , his eyes lights up while talking about cricket . When asked who would win the Thursday semifinal , he said , " Though I am a die-hard fan of the Australian cricket team , I sincerely want the best team win. And as far as Thursday 's match is concerned , I 'm afraid that India is looking very good and as the best team in the tournament. It is highly likely they will lift the cup. " Michael who said that among the Waugh brothers , the lesser known Dean Waugh was his best mate added " India has picked up its game right at the business end of the tournament and has got better through it. India has adapted tremendously to this format of one day matches. India will dictate terms in the Sydney match. " Michael who recently became the first general manager of aboriginal background of the National Indigenous Training Academy at Ayers Rock strongly believes that India 's vice-captain Virat Kohli 's performance will be the key to India 's success . " Kohli is my favourite. He dictates the terms of the game when he plays in full flow. He is a magnificent cricketer and will be India 's trump card , " said Michael who now spends most of his life uplifting his aboriginal community told TOI in the northern territory of Australia - known to be home to the aboriginal Anangu people . However not everybody shares Michael 's optimism . Jaishri Banerjee , mother of seven year old twins and a die-hard cricket fan living in Sydney believe Australia is a much stronger team and will be a force to reckon with in its own backyard . Banerjee who will be at the Sydney Cricket ground with daughters Anika and Alina and her husband told TOI " I of course want India to win but Aussies look a better team. Everybody in this Australian team - from number one to 10 can bat whereas India 's tail enders are hardly prolific. " Jaishri who took her daughters for the quarter final between South Africa and Sri Lanka - their first cricket match in a stadium , however feels that the massive fan support will play a big role in India 's performance and can also boost the team. " Almost 70 % of the tickets have been bought by Indians and hence the entre stadium will be blue. Let 's hope India 's nosy supporters create enough confusion in the mind of the Aussies making them miss catches and failing run outs. " Meanwhile a large contingent of Indian teenagers working in the hospitality industry in the Northern Territory of Australia have already bought their tickets to attend the final at Melbourne. Around 50 of them had travelled together to watch India thrash Pakistan in the league stages. Around 60 of them will now travel to Melbourne for the final , confident that Inda will go through. Orville D Silva from Vasa n Mumbai , who works at Ayers Rock Resort as a hosptality manager told TOI " We had flown all the way to Adelaide from Ayers Rock to watch India play Pakistan. It was my first experience of watching a match live in a stadium. It was an amazing feeling of patriotism. The entire flight was filled with Indians wearing the blue jersey. We will do the same for the finals. " His friend Aditya Sawant who came to Australia in 2013 to study hospitality management said " I used to work in the Taj Mahal hotel in Mumbai during the last world cup. I noticed right in front of my eyes how amazingly they celebrated after winning the last world cup final in Mumbai. Though we could have done with Sachin Tendulkar 's experience but India is in the good hands of our captain cool Mahendra Singh Dhoni. Dhoni 's shrewd strategy will be the game changer , " Aditya told TOI . He added " We always talk about India 's batting. This world cup , we have watched Indian bowlers excel. This year , we are winning because of our bowlers. Md Shami is the trump card. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
