Australians face the heat at Gabba The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Dec 18 , 2014 , 11.00AM IST Mitchell Marsh ( right hamstring ) , Josh Hazlewood ( cramps ) , Mitchell Starc ( rib pain ) and even Mitchell Johnson ( side strain ) experienced various levels of discomfort. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE : Aussie pacers seemed to be falling like ninepins in Wednesday 's sweltering heat at the Gabba , but humour was n't in short supply at the end of the day 's play . As Murali Vijay and company continued piling on the agony , Mitchell Marsh ( right hamstring ) , Josh Hazlewood ( cramps ) , Mitchell Starc ( rib pain ) and even Mitchell Johnson ( side strain ) experienced various levels of discomfort . With Ryan Harris already out because of a quad strain , it made for comical scenes when team physio Alex Kountouris informed that Michael Clarke had had an operation on the tendons in his right hamstring. Someone interrupted his train of thought by asking how the hamstring was , to which Kountouris replied , " Whose hamstring ? I 've lost track. " It turned out the query was directed at Mitchell Marsh. " Good job , mate , " someone else chimed in. Kountouris looked pained. Asked if Mitchell Johnson also had an appointment with him , Kountouris snapped back , " Not before 7.30 pm tomorrow. " Kountouris clarified that Mitchell Marsh , who left the field , might bat but his bowling role would be limited in this Test. " He had cramps all over his body. Both calves , both hamstrings , groins , hips , " Kountouris said of Hazelwood in all seriousness , adding that the debutant had performed through pain. It was only greeted with giggles . " We expect him to bowl tomorrow , " retorted the physio. Starc too is expected to bowl. Ironically , the only man whose fitness levels seemed above par in the whole scenario was Shane Watson , who has had a history of breakdowns . " It 's been an eventful day , " was how Darren Lehamann put it. Asked what he thought of Australia 's slow over rate , he said , " I do n't think much of it. Look , we were okay in the first session , very good in the second session and very poor in the third session. We just could n't hit our lengths and we bowled too full and too wide. " The Aussies have n't lost at the Gabba in 26 years , but that seems to offer cold comfort at the moment. Maybe the thunderstorms forecast for Thursday and Friday might offer a new twist . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
