Australia vs India : Sparks expected to fly as superpowers collide in World Cup semis The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 25 , 2015 , 02.13PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Sparks can be expected to fly when confident , well-balanced teams from cricketing superpowers Australia and India clash in a mouthwatering World Cup semifinal at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Thursday . The match pits four-time champions Australia , the top-ranked team in one-day cricket , against title holders India , the dominant financial power in world cricket . The winners will go on to face the other co-hosts New Zealand next Sunday in another of the great arenas of the game , Melbourne Cricket Ground . While Thursday 's clash will have to go some way to match the tense climax of New Zealand 's victory over South Africa on Tuesday , Australia 's meetings with India are rarely dull . If familiarity between the two sides has not quite bred contempt , the frequent heated exchanges in their clashes indicates at the very least a fierce competitiveness . " The fact we 're playing India now is extremely special , " Australia captain Michael Clarke said on Wednesday . " I think you 'll see two teams at the top of their game wanting to play their best cricket , I 'm really confident both teams will put on a great show. " In the Test arena at least , home advantage has been the decisive factor in their meetings in recent years . It has less of an impact in the one-day game and there is good reason for India to have some confidence it will not mitigate too heavily against them on Thursday . Clarke admitted it was a " no brainer " that Indian fans would outnumber those of Australia , while the SCG has always offered something for the one area of the game where the visitors can be said to have a distinct edge , spin bowling . Australia can look to their record of having lost just one of 14 one-day internationals at the ground against India and to their utter dominance of their meetings since the tourists arrived Down Under last November . India have been transformed since the start of the World Cup , however , with a newly potent bowling attack firing alongside their always fine batting to take them to the last four unbeaten . That has given the side such confidence that batsman Rohit Sharma said it was irrelevant whether there was spin on offer at the SCG or not . " If you look at the tournament , we 've taken 70 wickets in seven games , distributed between the spinners and the fast bowlers , " he said . " So it does n't matter how the wicket behaves. If it suits the fast bowlers or the spinners , we 've got everything covered in those two areas . " We just need to keep doing what we 've been doing. We 've played some really good cricket in the World Cup and it 's just a matter of two more hurdles. " Australia , by contrast , would clearly welcome a wicket to favour their quick bowlers Mitchell Starc , Mitchell Johnson and Josh Hazlewood . Hazlewood , who took 4-35 in the quarter-final victory over Pakistan , looks likely to get the nod ahead of spinner Xavier Doherty to keep Australia unchanged for the first time in the tournament . India have only altered their line-up during their title defence because of an injury to paceman Mohammed Shami and are also likely to be unchanged . " We 've played a lot of cricket against India , " Clarke added. " We know their strengths , we know their weaknesses , and we know they 're a very good team . " We have to execute our skills as well as we possibly can , and if we do that , I have confidence that we can beat any team we play against. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
