Axar Patel : India 's all-round star in World Cup squad The author has posted comments on this article Ajit Bezbaruah , TNN | Feb 9 , 2015 , 09.36AM IST Axar Patel was a brilliant student who never came second in the class and everybody thought that he would become an engineer or a doctor someday. But he was destined to serve Indian cricket. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 Axar Patel is n't into displaying emotions easily. His celebrations on the cricket field generally are a wry smile or hands held high pointing skywards or a simple highfive with his teammates . He is only pumped up if he gets his revenge against someone. His teammates and coaches say he is very matured for his age and is never under any pressure. It is this focus and maturity which are behind Axar 's meteoric rise . A gifted and a mentally strong cricketer , he is also street smart who performs under pressure. As an all-rounder , he is a high-dividend package -picking wickets , scoring runs and fielding brilliantly . It was his father , Rajesh Patel , who instilled in him the qualities which have helped him rise on the national stage. Rajesh used to tell him that if he was confident , half the battle was won even before it began. And Axar literally personifies confidence . Whether it is studies or cricket , he is focused and does n't like anybody fooling around when he is at work. That is perhaps why he has been able to see success in whatever he does . Axar was a brilliant student who never came second in the class and everybody thought that he would become an engineer or a doctor someday. But he was destined to serve Indian cricket . When Axar started playing gully cricket in his locality , Nana Kumbnath Road in Nadiad , he earned the nick name 'Jayasuriya ' because of his capacity to hit sixes like the former Sri Lankan captain . Just like Jayasuriya , he also bowled left-arm spin. As a kid , Axar slept with a bat or a ball by his side but his family never thought that the boy would play for India someday . The family did , however , encourage him to go for sports. Patel Sr took his son to a local gym so that Axar remained fit and did n't while away his time like the other youngsters in the locality . But soon , Axar decided to join a cricket camp instead of working out in the gym. His father then told the coach , " Do n't bother too much about his game. Just make him run so much that he returns home tired. " But after six months , Axar led his school team to the semifinal of a tournament organized by the Kheda District Cricket Association. After that he got selected for the district U-16 team and scored 98 runs and picked three wickets on his debut against Surat. That was the beginning . He was named the best under19 cricketer in India by BCCI for the 2012-13 season even as he was doing yeoman service to the Gujarat Ranji team. The IPL stint with Mumbai Indians happened after that . He still cherishes those moments training with Sachin Tendulkar , Ricky Ponting , Anil Kumble , Zaheer Khan and the rest though he did n't get to play too many matches there . But once he was picked up by Kings XI Punjab for Rs 75 lakh , he started to get noticed. He did n't let a single opportunity go waste. Like he did in the ODI against Sri Lanka in Cuttack last November. Axar got just four balls to play but scored an unbeaten 14 with two huge sixes . In the next match in Ahmedabad , when every other bowler in the team was going for more than five or six runs an over , Axar went for 39 runs in 10 overs and got two wickets on a batting friendly track in Motera . Axar is not too dependent on the nature of the wicket. He is more of a line and length bowler with intelligent variations in pace and flight . In the Deodhar Trophy semifinal against West Zone last December , he played a memorable innings of 68 not out from just 34 balls. Axar came in to bat when West were 1746 in 33rd over while chasing South Zone 's massive total of 314. But due to his onslaught , West won the match in 47.1 overs . When Axar was doing well in the domestic circuit , he had set a goal for himself to play for the senior team when he was 23 or 24. He has realized that dream at 21 itself. Sky is the limit now for him . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
