Babar , Shah star in Pakistan 's win over Australia The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Oct 26 , 2014 , 06.12PM IST Pakistani bowler Zulfiqar Babar ( C ) celebrates the dismissal of Australian batsman David Warner during the fourth day of the first test cricket match. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 DUBAI : ZulfiqarBabar took a maiden five-wicket haul and fellow leg-spinner Yasir Shah took four as Pakistan humiliated Australia by 221 runs in the first Test here today . Babar finished with 5-74 in only his third Test , while debutant Shah took 4-50 to dismiss a resolute Australia for 216 in their second innings and give Pakistan a 1-0 lead in the two-Test series . Pakistan , who set Australia a 438-run target , were left frustrated as Mitchell Johnson ( 61 ) and Steven Smith ( 55 ) fought hard before they succumbed in a tantalising finish with just 21.5 overs left in the day . Pakistan will now hope they either win or avoid defeat in the second Test in Abu Dhabi , starting October 30 , to clinch their first series win over Australia since 1994 . This was Australia 's ninth defeat in Asia in the last 14 Tests , having lost eight to India since 2008. Their only win came in Sri Lanka in 2011 with four draws as they fell to south Asia 's specialist spinners . Babar dismissed number ten Peter Siddle , caught bat-pad in the 92nd over , to seal the victory as Pakistani fielders removed the stumps even before the Australian review was turned down . The defeat looked inevitable with Australia reeling at 117-7 at lunch but Smith and Johnson defied the spinners during their 65-run stand for the eighth wicket . Babar threatened to dismiss Smith twice but Sarfarza missed a stumping with the batsman on 37 and Misbah-ul Haq failed to pick a difficult chance at 44 . Babar also saw Ahmed Shehzad drop Johnson at deep square leg on 23 and two runs later by Yasir Shah as both the batsmen frustrated the Pakistani attack . Smith hit Shah for his third four to reach his seventh half-century but fell five runs later , caught at short-leg . Smith resisted for 175 balls. It was Babar who struck twice before lunch to bring Pakistan closer to victory . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
