Back to basics for Australia ahead of first Test The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Dec 7 , 2014 , 12.47PM IST If Friday 's session was all about feeling your way around a cricket field , taking one 's time to fit in and even a fair bit of dancing , Saturday was about pure , old-fashioned fun. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Standing below the Bradman pavilion at the revamped Adelaide Oval , the spires of St Peter 's Cathedral seem oddly comforting. It 's probably got to do with the unique circumstances surrounding the upcoming Test , and the bunch of boys on the park who are trying hard to shake off serious trauma . Australia 's back-up staff , including psychologist Michael Lloyd , are doing everything they can to get Michael Clarke and Co up and running for the first Test beginning Tuesday . From the looks of it , they seem to be succeeding. David Warner has been dancing , Clarke himself is back and looks ready to lead , bouncers made a welcome return to the net sessions and the training itself has been therapeutic. As Brad Haddin put it , " We needed to feel the cricket hurt in our legs again. " If Friday 's session was all about feeling your way around a cricket field , taking one 's time to fit in and even a fair bit of dancing , Saturday was about pure , old-fashioned fun . The big news was the return of Clarke , who finally had a good training session and got the vote of confidence from Brad Haddin. " Michael 's been strong for the team a long time , " he said , " We want our captain out there playing. All signs are that he is going in the right direction. " Haddin offered a few insights into the new Aussie mindset. Talking about the first practice session , he said , " There was no pressure on anyone yesterday. There was no expectation from anyone on what you need to do or what you needed to get out of the net session. If you needed to take half an hour or 10 minutes or five minutes...there were no expectations . " We 've had Lloydy travelling with us pretty consistently . He 's been really good for us for a long time now. There 's a lot of trust from the players. It 's good to have him just to talk to. " Naturally , unusual steps are being taken to pep up the proceedings. " If you were watching closely , everyone was dancing. When the music stopped we had to dance , when it was on we had to run. It was n't normal. It was good fun.Ryano ( Harris ) and I did the waltz , David Warner was doing the worm. It was interesting to see the generation changes. " If coach Darren Lehman had talked about rediscovering the joy of playing , Haddin stressed on the uncluttered mind. " We all went back to the game we loved. It 's as simple as that.I do n't think we need to complicate it any more than that. Do n't look too deeply into things. " Wise advice from a veteran. Time will tell if the new-found joy is manufactured or here to stay . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
