Bangalore braces for the Usain Bolt storm The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Sep 2 , 2014 , 12.24PM IST Bolt arrived in Bangalore from Shanghai in the wee hours of Tuesday. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BANGALORE : It 's no secret that sprint legend Usain Bolt 's form extends beyond the track to the nightclubs he frequents on his travels. The fun-loving Jamaican , who will visit Bangalore on Tuesday , could just spin a few tracks and attempt to rap as he gets spontaneous at a trendy club in the evening . The 28-year-old world and Olympic 100m and 200m champion will interact with a select guest list of around 120 people at Indiranagar 's Puma Social Club - which is undergoing a change in decor to a Jamaican theme - where he is expected to be the life of the party . Celebrities at the exclusive bash will include ace golfer Sharmila Nicollet and three members of I-League football champions Bengaluru FC . Bolt , who was spotted letting his hair down at the Nozomi restaurant and Libertine club in London just a few days earlier , arrived in the city from Shanghai in the wee hours of Tuesday . Before the partying , however , the six-time Olympic champion will be at the M Chinnaswamy stadium , interacting with eight young athletes from New Delhi 's Vidya Gyan School and GBSS , who outran over 4,500 others in a series of inter-city competitions for the opportunity of a lifetime a few months ago . A makeshift track has been created for him to demonstrate skills to the budding athletes. Action will continue at the Chinnaswamy stadium when Bolt indulges in some banter and an improvised game of cricket with Yuvraj Singh from 4pm . Sources said that while the four-over friendly clash - which will also see Praveen Kumar and Harbhajan Singh participate - was originally a tennis ball affair , the fastest man in the world insisted on the real deal . " We then changed our plans and had some leather balls readied. We have red ones as well as pink and white ones , in case of a rain delay , " added the source . Friendly cricket match teams : Team Bolt : Usain Bolt , Harbhajan Singh , Nugent Walker Jr + three contest winners and a wicketkeeper . Team Yuvraj : Yuvraj Singh , Aditya Tare , Praveen Kumar + four contest winners . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
