Bangladesh - Forever struggling to impress The author has posted comments on this article Ruchir Mishra , TNN | Jan 25 , 2015 , 09.59AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 It was supposed to be a normal league game. Bangladesh were not expected to be a match for the experienced Indian side in the 2007 World Cup , but their young players created history. They bowled India out for under 200 and then 17-year-old Tamim Iqbal took the experienced Indian attack to the sword. Mushfiqur Rahim played sensibly to guide his team home. It was one of the biggest upsets in World Cup history. Since then , though , it has been back to mediocrity for Bangladesh . Inconsistency has been a feature of Bangladesh cricket ever since they were given Test status 15 years ago. There was always a question mark on their temperament. Some days they played like millionaires , on most other days they were poor. Most of their players have been playing at the international level for some time now but the improvement is n't up to expected standards . The likes of Anamul Haque , Nasir Hossain and Mahmudullah have n't done justice to their talent. Except for Shakib al-Hasan , skipper Mashrafe Mortaza , Iqbal and Rahim , no other player has established himself at the top level and that is the biggest reason Bangladesh cricket is still struggling to make a mark. The onus will be on this quartet to show the way , since Bangladesh have nine World Cup first timers. They have n't come up with any noticeable performance in the last two years , except for that 3-0 New Zealand rout when conditions suited spinners. The 5-0 win in ODIs over Zimbabwe in the last series came after Bangladesh had lost 12 out of 13 ODIs . Inconsistent performances have left selectors with no options but to play a rotating cast of players. Just before the World Cup , Mortaza took over from Rahim. Even coach Chandika Hathurusinghe is new to the set up. If that 's not enough , the conditions and wickets will challenge their skills . Bangladesh rely more on spin and they do n't have world-class fast bowlers. Mortaza and Rubel Hossain have formed a good pair but they have n't set the stage on fire. Hossain has some off field issues too. Al-Amin Hossain has so far done well in the limited opportunities he has got . The 19-year old Taskin Ahmad might have played just three ODIs but he can surprise the opposition with his lively pace. Bangladesh have some experience in the spin department with the presence of Shakib.They will only come in handy if their batsmen post a big total on the board. For the last couple years , though , it has been a constant struggle . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
