Bangladesh want to build on 'remarkable ' World Cup The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 14 , 2015 , 11.54AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Bangladesh hope their " remarkable " progress into the World Cup quarterfinals will help the passionate cricketing nation build for the future and compete on a regular basis with stronger rivals . Ranked number nine in the one-day standings , Bangladesh defeated number six England to qualify for the knockout round for the first time . High on confidence after their tough fight against Pool A table-toppers New Zealand on Friday , a match won by the co-hosts by just three wickets , Bangladesh now face defending champions India in the quarter-finals in Melbourne on March 19 . Bangladesh Cricket Board ( BCB ) chief executive Nizam Uddin Chowdhury described Bangladesh 's progress as remarkable . " This has been a remarkable success and validates our faith in the team , " Chowdhury said . " It is also important to look at the bigger picture. Achievements like this go a long way in further popularising the game , unearthing talent , drumming up support and attracting opportunities and investment in cricket. " Chowdhury believed the performance will help in building for the future . " There are always challenges in the path of development and progress but we have been patient with our system. We have seen a steady improvement across all formats of the game in recent years , " he said . " I am confident that Bangladesh cricket is ready to take the next step forward. " A cricket-mad country of 156 million people , Bangladesh inherited their passion for the game from Pakistan , of which they were part until independence in 1971 . They were granted Test status in 2000 but have shown little progress in the five-day format , losing all but seven of their 88 Tests . Five wins were against Zimbabwe and two against a depleted West Indies. But in the last few years Bangladesh have shown improvement in one-day internationals and Twenty20 by beating top nations like England , India and Sri Lanka . Their recent progress has impressed New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum . " I think the development of their skills in general has improved a lot over the last few years. They 've always been tough at home , " said McCullum . " But their ability to now travel , I think you 're seeing their skills-set develop as well . " I think what we saw the other night with a couple of the guys there ( against England in Adelaide ) , the threat that they pose with ball in hand for their quick bowlers is a lot more dangerous than a few years ago . " So I guess that is the sheer weight of numbers as well that Bangladesh possesses , and the passion for the game is starting to flow through so you 're starting to see talent rise to the top , and they 'll become a very tough proposition over the next few years. " Bangladesh 's chief selector Faruque Ahmed predicted the team will continue to improve after the World Cup . " This World Cup showing means a lot to us , " Ahmed said. " We have great passion for the game which is evident in all corners of the country and by watching the Bangladesh team do well will inspire a whole generation. " Journalist Azad Majumdar said recent performances will boost Bangladesh 's status at international level as well as their coffers . " A quarter-final berth will give them a financial boost. Bangladesh badly needed to perform at some level to keep the other countries interested in playing against them . " Bangladesh is slowly becoming a force to reckon with at home. But a quarter-final berth will also now give them confidence to do well abroad. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
