Bangladesh World Cup hero Rubel rape claim dropped The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 10 , 2015 , 06.20PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 DHAKA : A Bangladeshi actress who filed a rape case against cricket star Rubel Hossain said on Tuesday she was withdrawing the charges against the fast bowler , a day after his match-winning heroics at the ICC World Cup 2015 . Naznin Akter Happy , 19 , made the rape allegation earlier this year after claiming 25-year-old Rubel had reneged on a promise of marriage that he made while they were having an " intimate affair " . The allegation had threatened to scupper Rubel 's chances of appearing in the World Cup after he was remanded in custody by a court in Dhaka . But he was later granted bail until the end of the World Cup in view of " national interest " as he was a key member of Bangladesh 's team . In the latest twist of a saga which has gripped the conservative Muslim-majority country , Happy said she had decided to forgive her former boyfriend who starred in a dramatic victory over England on Monday . " I 've forgiven him. I am not going to continue the case against him , " Happy told Channel 24 television on Tuesday . " I am not going to give any testimony or evidence against ( him ) . And if I do n't carry on with the case , then there is no case. " Her move came hours after her lawyer , Debul Dey , said he would no longer represent Happy as he did not want to put Rubel under pressure while he was representing his country in Australia and New Zealand . Rubel took four for 53 in the win over England in Adelaide , which enabled Bangladesh to qualify for the World Cup quarterfinals for the first time . Although victims of alleged rapes are usually entitled to anonymity , police waived reporting restrictions after Happy told the Bangladeshi media that she would drop the allegations if Rubel agreed to marry her . Rubel has consistently rejected the allegation of rape or claims that he had offered to marry Happy , instead accusing her of " blackmail " . Happy became a household name for her debut movie " Kichu Asha Bhalobasa " ( Some Hopes , Some Loves ) which hit cinemas in 2013 . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
