BCCI bans RCA after Lalit Modi is declared president The author has posted comments on this article Saibal Bose , TNN | May 7 , 2014 , 12.05PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 JAIPUR : It turned out to be an eventful Tuesday for Rajasthan cricket. Lalit Modi was declared president of Rajasthan Cricket Association by Supreme Court-appointed election observer NM Kasliwal at 10 am , and within an hour the body stood suspended by the BCCI . A terse notice from BCCI 's interim president Shivlal Yadav to the RCA informed the body of the suspension under Rule 32 ( VII ) of its constitution . Although initially caught off-guard by the speedy BCCI action , the newly elected executive committee of the RCA regrouped by evening to declare that they will not go down without a fight . " We will approach the appropriate court in Jaipur , " Mehmood Abdi , the new deputy-president said. " Within a couple of days , we will move court against this illegal step by the BCCI. " The decision to move court , quite expected , was taken after the executive committee met at the RCA Academy , with Modi joining in from London via video conference. " Mr Modi has authorized the RCA 's legal cell to take every necessary step to ensure that the BCCI 's designs do not succeed , " Abdi , who is also the head of this legal cell , said . Modi took to his favourite form of communication - Twitter - to vent his ire. " Anyone who thinks they can just suspend us and get away and think BCCI is their personal property... wait and watch... we will not allow you to make a mockery of the game. We have a voice officially in the board and we will make ourselves heard. Wait and watch , " he tweeted . The deputy-president said the BCCI does not have the authority to constitute an ad-hoc committee to look after matters associated with cricket in Rajasthan. " The RCA is a registered body under the state 's Sports Act , " he said. " Anybody can not just come and claim to represent Rajasthan. There is a proper norm that has to be followed. " BCCI secretary Sanjay Patel , in a media release , has talked about forming an ad-hoc body to look after the players ' interests. " Keeping in mind the interests of the sport of cricket and in order to safeguard the best interests and welfare of the cricketers playing the game in different age-groups , an ad-hoc committee will be constituted shortly by the BCCI , " Patel 's release said . Abdi added that BCCI can act as per its rules but the RCA elections were conducted under the Sports Act , which supersedes all by-laws of private bodies. " The Sports Act is a law , " he said. " Modi was allowed to contest under this law. " Abdi , a lawyer who represents Modi in legal issues , added that individuals can be suspended under Rule 32 ( VII ) , but not an institution. " The BCCI president and secretary can not just take a decision on suspending an institution. They should have called a special general meeting. " He added that Modi has been in touch with a number of " influential members of the BCCI " . Officials of the RCA felt that N Srinivasan was behind this move. " We had expected Shivlal Yadav to show some restraint before taking any step , " an official said. " It is clear that Srinivasan is still calling the shots. " Incidentally , the BCCI action came after the Supreme Court , in its order during the last hearing , had said that the premier cricket body is free to take any step against the RCA as per its bylaws. Emboldened by this line , the BCCI went ahead with the suspension order . THE RCA COMMITTEE ( KEY MEMBERS ) : President : Lalit Modi ; Deputy-president : Mehmood Abdi ; Vice-presidents : Amin Pathan , Ratan Singh , Rajendra Singh Rathore , Sushil Sharma , Vimal Sharma , Vivek Vyas ; Secretary : Sumendra Tiwari ; Treasurer : Pawan Goyal ; Executive members : Ashok Gehlot , Rajesh Gupta , Rajesh Saraswat . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
