BCCI clears decks for Srinivasan 's return The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Sep 27 , 2014 , 10.51AM IST " He could have attended the BCCI meetings earlier also. It was his choice that he did n't , he felt it was time to take matters into his own hands , " a BCCI member said supporting Srinivasan 's decision. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : There was a surprise in store for the Indian cricket board ( BCCI ) members on Friday when N Srinivasan , the board president-in-exile , walked in to attend the working committee meeting . Srinivasan has been barred from participating in any BCCI-related activities till the Justice Mudgal committee gives him a clean chit in the IPL spot-fixing scandal . The Tamil Nadu strongman , however , decided to lead the show from the front. His associates promptly made it clear that nothing could stop Srinivasan from attending the meeting as Tamil Nadu Cricket Association ( TNCA ) president . " He could have attended the BCCI meetings earlier also. It was his choice that he did n't , he felt it was time to take matters into his own hands , " a BCCI member said supporting Srinivasan 's decision . BCCI members felicitated him for becoming the International Cricket Council ( ICC ) chairman , presenting him with a bouquet. It was announced soon after that the annual general meeting ( AGM ) will take place on Nov 20 in Chennai , exactly 50 days after Sept 30 , the last date of holding the meeting as per the BCCI 's constitution . The decision was taken keeping the November 2 deadline giv en by the Supreme Court to the Mudgal panel to submit its report.The members believe that " the report will clear Srinivasan of all charges " and the Nov 20 AGM will see the Tamil Nadu strongman assuming the president 's office for the second time in succession . There was a lone voice of protest in the 24-member working committee in the form of Prakash Dixit , the Vidarbha Cricket Association president. He tried to mentioned that the decision to push back the AGM was illegal but was snubbed by other members as well as Srinivasan . " Dixit ( a Shashank Manohar loyalist ) was reading from Aditya Verma 's petition. It shows they are trying to gang up against Srinivasan , " a member alleged . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
