BCCI decides to hold Annual General Body Meeting on March 2 The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Feb 8 , 2015 , 01.33PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : The much-awaited Annual General Meeting ( AGM ) of the BCCI , which had to be deferred a number of times because of the IPL spot-fixing case , will now be held in Chennai on March 2 , bringing an end to the uncertainty over its functioning . The decision was taken at the Board 's emergent Working Committee meeting where sidelined N Srinivasan also attended in his capacity as Tamil Nadu Cricket Association ( TNCA ) president . The committee discussed the implications of the Supreme Court judgment and decided to act as per legal advice . It was also decided to increase the monthly gratis scheme for all former cricketers by 50 per cent subject to a maximum of 50,000 rupees per month effective from January this year . " The Working Committee of the BCCI at its emergent meeting , held in Chennai today has decided to hold the Annual General Meeting of the BCCI on the 2nd of March 2015 at 9.30 AM in Chennai , " according to a BCCI statement issued after the meeting . The meeting has been held in the wake of the Apex Court order on January 22 , clearly stating that BCCI will have to hold its AGM-cum-elections within six weeks . BCCI 's president-in-exile Srinivasan has also been clearly told by the SC that he wo n't be able to stand for presidential elections unless he completely dissociates himself with the India Cements-owned CSK . The meeting today discussed the SC judgment in particular , which had questioned the autonomy of the board . Members expressed their objection to this because removal of the autonomy of the Board would lead to lot of complications including matters pertaining to the Reserve Bank of India when it comes to foreign exchange transactions of the Board . The meeting took place for half-an-hour only and the main subject of discussion was in respect of a hike of gratis payment to the former cricketers . It was also learnt that interim president Shivlal Yadav in all likelihood is the frontrunner to replace Srinivasan in the next AGM if the Tamil Nadu strongman decides not to contest . If there is no election , then Yadav , a former India off-spinner with more than 100 Test wickets may become head of BCCI unopposed . It is learnt that Srinivasan intimated the Board members about CSK being transferred to a new subsidiary . In a filing to the Bombay Stock Exchange ( BSE ) , India Cements said it has completed the required documentation for transfer of CSK franchise to Chennai Super Kings Cricket Limited . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
