BCCI elections : Cross-voting may hurt Sharad Pawar The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Mar 2 , 2015 , 09.02AM IST There are fears that BJP votes might split in absence of a clear directive. And the ruling party candidates - Patel , Arirudh Chaudhry and Amitabh Choudhary - may benefit most from the cross-voting. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : By making sure that he will be elected unopposed as the BCCI president , Jagmohan Dalmiya may have taken the fizz out of Monday 's AGM , but expect a few bubbles to burst as the Sharad Pawar and N Srinivasan groups fight for minor spoils . READ ALSO : ​ Dalmiya wins power play , will head BCCI Old timers in the BCCI could n't recall the last time when the president was elected unopposed but there were elections to all other posts.For the record , Shashank Manohar in 2008 and Srinivasan in 2011 were elected unopposed along with their entire panel . Blame this complex election scenario on the BJP , which simply could not take a clear stand on which of the two factions to support . That the BJP did n't want to associate with the Srini group that stands thoroughly discredited in wake of the IPL-6 scandal is understandable. But its reluctance to lend unequivocal support to the Pawar group or a 'neutral ' panel baffled all . In fact , BJP 's insistence on pitching Anurag Thakur for the BCCI president 's post threw all equations haywire and Pawar 's generals had to draw up new strategies even while trying to prevail upon Thakur and Dalmiya to come to an amicable understanding . But after having to later pull back on the Thakur issue , it is not clear whether the young BJP leader would be able to garner all eight votes that his party controls in the BCCI . If Thakur ensures the BJP votes and Pawar backs that up with 10 more , he will sail through , as would his fellow candidates Chetan Deasi and Rajeev Shukla . But there are fears that BJP votes might split in absence of a clear directive. And the ruling party candidates - Patel , Arirudh Chaudhry and Amitabh Choudhary - may benefit most from the cross-voting . Interestingly , Srinivasan 's panel of five vice-presidents includes representatives from two associations controlled by the BJP - Ganga Raju ( Andhra ) and CK Khanna ( DDCA ) . Unless they withdraw their candidature on the floor of the house , it is safe to assume that Thakur and Co will not get their votes . Khanna 's status is now in doubt after SP Bansal landed up on Sunday armed with a court order saying he is the right man to attend the AGM . The Pawar camp is confident of the numbers in spite of the unease over BJP votes. Much will also depend on who chairs the AGM . According to a senior Board functionary , the house will have to elect a chairman from among the five vice-presidents - Shivlal Yadav ( SZ ) , Rajeev Shukla ( CZ ) , Chitrak Mitra ( EZ ) , SP Bansal ( NZ ) , Ravi Sawant ( WZ ) . The chairman will have to decide on dual representations from Baroda and Delhi apart from adjudicating on the suspended Rajasthan Cricket Association and umpiring the elections . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
