SC bars N Srinivasan from contesting BCCI polls The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Jan 22 , 2015 , 06.30PM IST The Supreme Court verdict is a big blow to Srinivasan. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The Supreme Court has finally pronounced its much-awaited verdict on N Srinivasan 's conflict of interest case , saying that BCCI functions are amenable to judicial review . Reacting to the Supreme Court 's verdict that N Srinivasan ca n't contest BCCI polls till he gives up commercial interest in CSK , former BCCI chief Sharad Pawar said , " I am happy that Srinivasan is out. " Former BCCI chief AC Muthiah said , " Srinivasan got a bit cocky , he thought nobody could bring him down. He must be angry with judgement. Srinivasan should honorably exit the board and let BCCI function. " Supreme Court reads out 130-page verdict on IPL spot-fixing case : 1. BCCI functions are public functions , says SC . 2. Sriniviasan 's son-in-law Gurunath Meiyappan and Rajasthan Royals franchise co-owner Raj Kundra are the team officials . 4. SC : BCCI is amenable to article 226 5. SC asks BCCI to set up a report committee to look into these aspects 6. Supreme Court : State chose not to bring any law to check monopoly of BCCI 7. SC : Mudgul committee followed all rules , proved all charges against Kundra 8. Apex court says it does n't need to review Mudgal committee 's findings 9. Raj Kundra was heard by Mudgal panel , he ca n't complain : SC 10. ​ SC observes allegations of cover up against N Srinivasan are not proven. ​ At best there 's only a case of suspicion against Sriniasan of cover up 11. ​ Srinivasan , BCCI boss and owner of franchise created situation of conflict of interest : SC 12. ​ BCCI did not adhere to prescribed procedure while conducting probe in IPL spot fixing scandal : SC 13. No BCCI administrator can have commercial interests. Argument that Srinivasan held miniscule share in India Cements misleading since his family directly or indirectly holds much more 14. SC : Clause that allowed N Srinivasan to own team a true villain in this case 15. ​ Can BCCI afford to lose its credibility because of sporting frauds ? asks SC 16. ​ SC : Game is game only if it is pristine and free from any sporting fraud 17. Not only players and team officials but franchise will also be punished for misconduct : SC 18. ​ Amendment in BCCI rules allowing Srinivasan to own IPL team is bad as conflict of interest in cricket leads to great confusion : SC 19. ​ SC : Allegations against IPL COO Sundar Raman need to be probed further 20. SC : Independent committee to decide action against Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals. Power to act vests with BCCI but in this case ca n't let board to decide 21. Supreme Court bars Srinivasan from contesting BCCI polls . 22. SC : Independent committee to decide action against CSK and Rajasthan. Three-member committee has been formed that includes former judges RM Lodha , Ashok Bhan and RV Ravindran 23. Supreme Court asks BCCI to hold fresh polls within the next six weeks 24. Srini ca n't contest till he gives up commercial interest in CSK : SC 25. There is need to establish institutions integrity within BCCI : SC 26. It is a huge task and great responsibility , says Justice Lodha Chennai Super Kings team principal Gurunath Meiyappan ( right ) with Mahendra Singh Dhoni ( left ) and Stephen Fleming. ( TOI Photo ) This is a stinging judgement now . — Harsha Bhogle ( @ bhogleharsha ) January 22 , 2015 TOI cartoon by Ajit Ninan IPL spot-fixing case details A bench of Justices TS Thakur and FMI Kalifulla , which heard the counsel for BCCI and Srinivasan on one side and rival Cricket Association of Bihar ( CAB ) on the other , had on December 17 reserved its verdict on Srinivasan 's re-election plea but had indicated that the judgment could formulate accountability standards for ill-managed sports bodies to eliminate nepotism and conflict of interest . The deeper scrutiny of incidents relating to IPL betting and spot-fixing scam by the bench had led to a debate on 'conflict of interest ' within BCCI headed by Srinivasan , who as managing director of India Cements owns the IPL franchise Chennai Super Kings . One of the moot points of adjudication which had emerged during the arguments was the amendment to BCCI Rules in 2008 allowing board officials to have commercial interest in IPL matches . Appearing for Srinivasan , senior advocate Kapil Sibal had challenged petitioner CAB and its secretary Aditya Verma to give a single instance where Srinivasan had acted in conflict of interest and caused loss to the board while favouring himself or his team . The bench had pointed to a decision by the IPL governing council , whose meeting was attended by Srinivasan , to compensate Rs 13 crore to CSK for an abandoned Champions League match . " How could you have decided your case ? The fact that the money was returned by CSK made no difference to the conflict of interest on your part when the decision was taken , " the bench had said . Sibal made amends and said , " Apart from that single incident , there has been no other allegation in the last eight years. " The petition by CAB had led to a huge debate over the management of IPL and BCCI . The court-appointed Justice Mukul Mudgal Committee , also comprising senior advocates L Nageswar Rao and Nilay Dutta , had found Srinivasan 's son-in-law Gurunath Meiyappan guilty of indulging in betting during IPL 2013 despite being a CSK team official . Though the committee had cleared Srinivasan of betting or any wrongdoing , it had raised serious questions regarding possible conflict of interest . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
