BCCI has no problem with Dhoni quitting midway through the series : Patel The author has posted comments on this article Indranil Basu , TNN | Jan 1 , 2015 , 11.24AM IST Patel said that Dhoni easily commanded a place in the Test team. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : There was no threat to MS Dhoni 's Test captaincy if he had continues to play Tests , according to Indian cricket board ( BCCI ) secretary Sanjay Patel . " He has been the best bet as the captain of the Test team. But his retirement has come as a big surprise. If he had not retired , he would have continued as the captain. In fact , there was no talk within the board about any change in captaincy at all , even at the selectors ' level , " Patel told TOI , a day after Dhoni 's shock retirement from Test cricket . Recalling his immediate reaction when Dhoni told him about his decision to retire on Tuesday , Patel said , " I was deeply shocked when he broke the news to me. We tried to make him reconsider his decision. But he is a lion-hearted cricketer and he knows what is best for him. " It 's sad that the Test team wo n't have the services of Dhoni , but he has left behind a great legacy. Now , it 's time to cherish his contribution to Indian cricket in Test matches , " he added . Patel said that Dhoni easily commanded a place in the Test team. " He was the one of the most successful batsmen in the last England series. As a player , you ca n't question his place in the team. But at the end of the day , you have to respect his decision also. He wants to concentrate on ODIs and T20s only and BCCI is right behind him. " So how long does BCCI see Dhoni playing in ODIs & T20s ? " He is only 33 and has some solid years ahead of him where he will be mentally and physically fresh for all kind of challenge. If you ask me about my personal opinion , I would like to see him play till the 2019 World Cup , " Patel said . When asked why Dhoni bowed out of Test cricket in the middle of an important series , the BCCI secretary said , " Dhoni must have thought time was up for him. The board has no complains that Dhoni left without playing the last Test in Sydney. " Asked about what he thought of new captain Virat Kohli who is seen as hotheaded , Patel said , " Virat is an emotional cricketer but he is great fighter. Virat 's decision making has matured a lot. He will be fantastic captain. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
