BCCI inks deal with MRF academy The author has posted comments on this article BCCI has signed an agreement with MRF Pace Foundation to train Indian pace bowlers. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : It 's official now. The Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) has signed an agreement with MRF Pace Foundation to train Indian pace bowlers under the guidance of legendary Australian fast bowler Glenn McGrath at its Chennai academy. The first batch of trainees begun their formal training on Tuesday . The agreement , which was first reported by the TOI on August 29 , includes a tie-up between MRF pace foundation and the BCCI for the next five years. The Indian board will send current and upcoming pace bowlers to the academy to train under McGrath . " This is a great moment. The association between the BCCI and the MRF Pace Foundation will hugely benefit Indian cricket in the long run , " BCCI interim president Shivlal Yadav , told reporters here on Tuesday . The elite group includes bowlers who have been picked by the BCCI to play official matches as contracted by the Board. There will be a maximum of 10 trainees each per camp and the duration of this session will last for two weeks. The selected pacers can attend the camp during all three visits of McGrath in a year between January-February ; June-July and August-September . " The trainees will be split into two categories -elite and probables -and the training will be imparted in batches , " explained Rahul Mammen , whole-time director of MRF Ltd. Probables include pacers with potential as identified and shortlisted by national selectors. A total of 20 probables will train for 30 days. The trainees will be split into two groups of 10 each and attend the camp in MayJune and July-August . " It has been a wonderful couple of years for me at the MRF Pace Foundation , " said McGrath , who replaced fast bowling great Dennis Lillee as the foundation 's director two years back. " I now eagerly look forward to working with India 's best bowlers at the foundation. We have world-class facilities here and I am eagerly looking forward to the new challenge , " the Aussie added , who is known for his control and accuracy with the ball . Moreover , BCCI will also send its domestic coaches to work with McGrath which will help them learn the finer points of pace bowling. " Yes , that 's very much possible and we 'll definitely send our coaches to work with Glenn here. I 'm sure it 'll help them a lot , " Brijesh Patel , former India batsman and present director of coaching at National Cricket Academy , said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
