BCCI misses Hazare centenary , Legends Club does n't The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Mar 14 , 2015 , 09.45AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : The custodians of cricket in India , the BCCI have named India 's premier domestic One-day competition after Vijay Hazare , but curiously the Board did nothing to mark the birth centenary ( March 11 ) of one of Indian cricket 's greats . An occasion to raise a toast to the batting legend who became the first Indian to score two hundreds in a Test match-at Adelaide against Don Bradman 's mighty Aussies in 1947-48-was missed. Perhaps the mandarins of the Board are currently more occupied with the on-going power struggle than pay tribute to a man under whom India won their first Test , against England in 1952 at Madras ( now Chennai ) . Luckily , the date did n't go unnoticed , thanks to former BCCI president Rajsingh Dungarpur. A dozen or so years ago , Dungarpur , who passed away in 2009 , had launched the 'Legends Club, ' which celebrates birthdays of some of the greatest Indian cricketers like Sachin Tendulkar , Sunil Gavaskar , Vijay Manjrekar , Vijay Merchant and Vinoo Mankad , apart from Hazare . On Wednesday evening ( March 11 ) , the 'Legends Club ' held a function to celebrate the 100th birth anniversary of Hazare fittingly at the Cricket Club of India ( CCI ) . His exploits were fondly recalled by former colleague Madhav Apte , who at 82 is one of the oldest surviving India cricketers. Now the president of the 'Legends Club, ' Apte , who opened in seven Tests for India , said : " As a kid , I saw his brilliance in the pentangulars , which began in 1937-38. He took his time to score runs , but I can assure you that he would have been equally successful in limited overs cricket too. " Apte recounted his experiences of playing under Hazare during the West Indies tour of 1953. " During the second Test in Barbados , Bridgetown , I added 112 for the third wicket with him , before getting out by hitting the ball in the air , which was n't acceptable in those days.As I was walking back , Hazare approached me and chided me in Marathi for throwing my wicket away . He was a very fine batsman , but would n't communicate a great deal as a captain. However , that was one occasion when he did , " Apte reminisced. Also present on the occasion was ex-India opener WV Raman . Born in Sangli , Maharashtra , Hazare played 30 Tests , scoring 2192 runs , including seven hundreds , at a fabulous average of 47.65. His medium-pace bowling fetched him 20 wickets too , including the prized scalp of Don Bradman thrice , during India 's 1947-48 series win Down Under . He captained India in 14 Tests from 1951-53. He slammed 60 First Class centuries while scoring 18740 runs besides picking 295 wickets . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
