BCCI objects to Mumbai U-19 player before relenting The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Jan 21 , 2015 , 09.58AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Thanks to petty officialdom , a Mumbai under-19 player , Aditya Shinde , almost missed the team 's Cooch Behar Trophy match against Uttar Pradesh , which began in Meerut on Tuesday . Apparently , the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) had refused to register Shinde 's name in the Mumbai U-19 side on the grounds of domicile . " On January 9 , we received a mail from the BCCI that Shinde was n't eligible to play for Mumbai since he was n't born in Mumbai , and also passed his SSC ( secondary school ) and HSC ( Higher secondary ) from an institute outside Mumbai , " a top MCA official told TOI . " Curiously , the mail had come from the BCCI 's age verification department , which has nothing to do with domicile issues. We wrote back to the BCCI saying that this particular player has been a MCA-registered player in Mumbai for the last couple of years , attaching the re lated documents along with the response. We said that unless another association claims that this player 's domicile came in their jurisdiction , there was no reason to deny him registration for Mumbai , " said the official . " However , we received no response from the BCCI for the next few days . Eventually , we spoke to BCCI secretary Sanjay Patel on Monday night about it , who agreed to register the player. We had to rush this youngster to Meerut on a short notice , which was n't easy on him , " rued the official . The official claimed that as per the rules , for a player to represent Mumbai , 1 ) he must have been born in areas in jurisdiction of the MCA , or 2 ) he must have a domicile of the area under the jurisdiction of the MCA for a minimum of six months. Shinde was born in Ratnagiri , but has played in Mumbai 's local cricket for the last two years . When contacted , BCCI game game development officer , Ratnakar Shetty , denied knowledge of the incident . Shinde , meanwhile , failed to make it to the Mumbai XI on Tuesday. After being put in , Mumbai were 19 for no loss before bad weather ruined play for the day . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
