BCCI puts up jaded Indian team at luxury resort to 'recuperate' The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Feb 1 , 2015 , 09.01AM IST MS Dhoni had stressed that his side needed a " complete break " from cricket after being in Australia for over two months. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : After failing to win a single game on their tour of Australia , Team India will chill out in a luxury resort to " rest and recuperate " before the World Cup . After crashing out of the tri-series on Friday in Perth , skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni had stressed that his side needed a " complete break " from cricket after being in Australia for over two months. Sensing that the players were exhausted both mentally and physically , the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) has booked them in a resort near Adelaide to help the jaded team recover . " We understand they are tired. We have booked them in a resort near Adelaide. They can switch off their mobile phones and relax and recover comfortably now. We actually had given them the option of checking into any resort in Australia , including a few good ones in Gold Coast , " a top BCCI official told TOI on Saturday. " A few players wanted to go to Melbourne or Sydney to meet their relatives , and we have allowed that. If someone wants to come back to India , he is welcome to do so , but since the team must assemble on the evening of Feb 5 in Adelaide , time is short. " Sensing that a few players may be homesick , the BCCI has even allowed the wives and girlfriends of the players to join them at this resort. However , the WAGs will have to 'leave ' the players once the World Cup begins on Feb 14 but will be allowed back if the team reaches the semifinal. " We want the boys to focus fully on the tournament. We will take a call on this issue once ( and if ) we reach the semifinals , " the official said. However , till the semis , the WAGs can travel Down Under to watch their men in action , though they wo n't get to stay with the players . It has also emerged that Dhoni could become a father at some stage during the World Cup. He may have to fly back to India to be with wife Sakshi when she gives birth. " Any emergency case will be settled on an individual basis. We are always willing to allow for such eventualities , " the official said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
