BCCI suggests three-man committee to SC to probe IPL scandal The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Apr 20 , 2014 , 05.58PM IST BCCI decided to suggest names of Ravi Shastri , JN Patel and RK Raghavan as members of the probe committee. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Faced with a credibility crisis arising out of the IPL spot-fixing and betting scandal , the BCCI on Sunday suggested to the Supreme Court a three-member committee made up of eminent persons to probe the corruption case on the directives of the apex court . The all-powerful Working Committee of the Board in its emergent meeting here decided to suggest names of former India all-rounder Ravi Shastri , former Calcutta High Court Chief Justice JN Patel and ex-CBI director RK Raghavan as members of the probe committee . Former Board president Shashank Manohar attended the meeting as a representative of the Vidarbha Cricket Association . It is learnt that former Lok Sabha Speaker Somnath Chatterjee 's name was also considered in the meeting before the Working Committee zeroed in on the three persons . The SC has directed the BCCI in the last hearing of the case on April 16 to suggest names of persons who will conduct a " fair probe " into the IPL 6 spot-fixing and betting scandal . The apex court is expected to consider the suggestion by the BCCI in the next hearing on April 22 and pass orders on the future course of the probe . The Emergent WC meeting has been convened following demand from some state units affiliated to the Board after the Supreme Court 's hearing . On April 16 , the Supreme Court had said that the BCCI should conduct a probe against N Srinivasan and 12 others in the betting and spot fixing scandal to maintain its institutional autonomy as the court can not " close its eyes " to the allegations made by the Justice Mukul Mudgal committee . A bench of justices AK Patnaik and FM Ibrahim Kalifulla , however , had expressed reservations over a SIT or CBI probe , saying that institutional autonomy of the Board has to be maintained and a committee constituted by the BCCI to look into the issue would be preferred . The SC , while turning down Srinivasan 's fresh plea to return to the helm of the Board 's affairs as its elected chief , has ruled that he can not be given back the BCCI 's reins till he comes out clean in a probe conducted against him and 12 others , including India-capped cricketers , whose names have been mentioned by Justice Mudgal Committee report in the IPL corruption scandal . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
