BCCI takes note of gruelling itineraries The author has posted comments on this article Indranil Basu , TNN | Oct 20 , 2014 , 11.57AM IST Thankfully , due to the cancellation of the West Indies tour , the team got some much-needed rest. Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The scheduling of the recent India-West Indies ODI series which the tourists pulled out of with one game to go has come under the scanner . The itinerary posed stiff challenges for the teams as they were supposed to travel across the length and breadth of the country with only two-day gaps between matches . It was another matter that two games were not played - the Vizag match due to the cyclone and the fifth and final one at Kolkata because the tourists had already flown back home . A look at the itinerary makes it clear that it was a punishing one. The schedule was like this : Kochi ( October 8 ) , Delhi ( October 11 ) , Vizag ( October 14 ) , Dharamsala ( October 17 ) and Kolkata ( October 20 ) . The only T20 match was scheduled for October 22 at Cuttack . With the 2015 World Cup approaching , the BCCI would certainly not want the Indian players to get jaded and exhausted . " It would have been tough for the team with so much travelling and inadequate unwind time. The players would be happier if the board could increase the number of rest days between matches , " a BCCI official told TOI on Sunday . Thankfully , due to the cancellation of the West Indies tour , the team got some much-needed rest. Otherwise , the players would have been nursing tired limbs by the end of the engagements . After travelling to Delhi from Kochi , the team was scheduled to go to Vizag before returning to Delhi on way to Dharamsala before returning , yet again , to the Capital for catching a flight to Kolkata . The BCCI reply was that the schedule was formulated in such a way because Delhi Police was n't ready to provide security for the last phase of the home series just before Diwali . In the earlier schedule , the T20 match was supposed to be played on October 22 in Delhi . " It was later shifted to Cuttack and that led to all the changes , " the official explained . BCCI mandarins also admitted that keeping at least three clear days between the games was desirable . " It 's tough to keep three days between the games but the board is working towards such a schedule , " a top BCCI official said . With the Sri Lankan team coming for a five ODI series , the board is now thinking of a schedule which will cut down on travel time and the resultant toll on players . In the Sri Lanka series , BCCI may keep the initial games in East Zone first before moving on to South or West Zone . The series is likely to be held between October 28 and November 15. Kolkata , Cuttack , Ranchi , Hyderabad , Ahmedabad and Bangalore are the cities in fray to stage the matches . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
