Becoming the best a motivation , says Anderson The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 15 , 2015 , 01.50PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : Richard Hadlee predicted on Thursday that this World Cup would be won by pace bowling allrounders. While India are scratching around with Stuart Binny , New Zealand have come up with one who can win a few games on his own . Corey Anderson held the record for the fastest ODI century for a while , and now with a Man of the Match performance on Saturday against Sri Lanka , the Kiwi said he harbours ambitions of becoming the best allrounder in the tournament . " Yes I know that it is going to be a tournament of pace bowling allrounders. Becoming the best is surely a motivation and I am feeling all confident about reaching the goal after today 's match , " Anderson said . He smashed 75 off 49 balls and then got 2-18 , which got him the MoM award. " I am feeling quite good about my bowling. It 's about when the captain wants to use me and I am ready to do the job whenever asked , " he added . The 25-year-old Kiwi , who plays for Mumbai Indians , has a career strike-rate of 132.36 in ODIs and he has been doing the job for New Zealand for a year and a half , coming at No. 6 or 7. " He said he is feeling good about his batting too , but insisted that it had a lot to do with the top-order which set things up beautifully for them. " We have been in similar situations quite a few times over the last one year. Once we have the start and guys like me or ( Luke ) Ronchi come out to bat around the Powerplay overs , our aim is to ensure that we do n't lose wickets and still keep the pace up. We were able to do that in this game and we have to keep on doing it. " He confessed that there were a few nerves in the dressing-room before the match started , but once the ball rolled , things fell into place. They are being constantly reminded of the 1992 team which reached the semifinals after winning seven games in a row. " I was two then , so ca n't say I watched the matches , " he laughed and went on to say that the current batch of Black Caps want to captivate the nation with their own brand of cricket just as Martin Crowe 's boys did it their way . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
