Been one hell of a ride , says Brendon McCullum The author has posted comments on this article New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum ( centre ) and his team stand after losing in the ICC World Cup final against Australia in Melbourne. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Trained eagles guard the Melbourne Cricket Ground ( MCG ) terraces to keep the pestering seagulls from getting in. The Kiwis stood little chance . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The rampaging Aussies shooed away the expectant visitors with such disdain on Sunday that by the time night fell over the city , there were no signs whatsoever of any challenge ever having been there in the first place . " You got to hand it over to the Aussies. They were too good , " New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum conceded , holding back nothing in his praise for the opposition . " The margin of defeat wo n't rankle , " said McCullum , pointing to the fact that they lost to a better team. He gave credit to his team members who fought all the way. " New Zealand can hold their heads high , " said the captain . If there 's a winner , there 's got to be a loser. " As harsh as that might sound , that 's the truth , " McCullum said after the final. " Australia have the experience of big occasions. It was a bit unlucky the way we got out but I 'm proud of my guys , " he added. " We showed a lot of character and it 's been one hell of a ride. " McCullum is hoping this run to the final that New Zealand accomplished will last for a long time. He also said that the Kiwis will continue to play attacking cricket . " We 'll continue playing this brand of cricket. A lot of Kiwis travelled all the way from New Zealand to be here and it 's unfortunate we could n't do better , " McCullum said . Michael Clarke led his team to the World Cup win in what was his final one-dayer. " Clarke has been outstanding for Australia and deserves to be a World Cup winner. Such moments add to the romance in sport , " the New Zealand captain said . New Zealand had lost to Australia in the Champions Trophy final in 2009 and Sunday was their second defeat against the neighbours in an ICC tournament . But McCullum insisted that this New Zealand team is a lot different from what they were back then. " We 've been a lot more productive and hopefully we 'll continue to stay this way , " he said . It was a good toss to win here at the MCG but the ball swung early on and caused serious problems. " A total of somewhere around 260 or 280 could 've worked things in our favour , " reckoned the skipper . Heaping praises on Mitchell Starc , who sent him back for a duck , McCullum gave his opponents due credit. " He was a bit too good for me today , that 's for sure , " McCullum said of Starc . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
