Before MCA said no , its club adopted Sachin 's idea for 8 yrs The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Sep 30 , 2014 , 11.24AM IST This tournament has seen the participation of quite a few Ranji-level players like Aditya Tare , Suryakumar Yadav , Vishal Dabholkar and Siddhesh Lad. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : This is ironic. While the Mumbai Cricket Association ( MCA ) rejected Sachin Tendulkar 's innovative idea of 15-a-side games at the junior level before being forced to have a rethink at the insistence of president Sharad Pawar , it has allowed a club in the city , affiliated with it , to run three of its tournaments on similar lines on an 'experimental basis. ' The Sports Promotion Group , which runs the SPG Academy at Dadar 's famed Shivaji Park , has been organizing 14-a-side tournaments for the past eight years . " We organise three events - SPG Group cricket academy inter-collegiate , inter-corporate and inter-club tournaments , every year , and the MCA has been kind to allow us to implement this idea every time , " the club 's secretary , Sangam Lad , told TOI on Monday . " The games in these tournaments are of 40 overs-a-side nature , with the fielding captain getting two opportunities during the innings to rotate players - at the 15-over and 30-over mark. " The captain can choose how many players he wants to 'rotate. ' Each bowler is allowed not more than six overs , which means that at least seven bowlers have to be played. The batting team can field any 11 batsmen out of the 14. There is no need to declare the line-up before a game , " said Lad . This tournament has seen the participation of quite a few Ranji-level players like Aditya Tare , Suryakumar Yadav , Vishal Dabholkar and Siddhesh Lad . " The benefits of this concept are many-fold. It allows maximum players to take part in the game and widens the talent pool. Some times , parents even force their kid to leave playing cricket if he does n't find a spot in the first XI. That can be disheartening , " felt Lad. " We must try Tendulkar 's idea in local cricket. It will enable all the budding cricketers an opportunity to show their talent , " he added . Interestingly , as many as seven bowlers can bowl in Mumbai 's local limited overs games , which are of 45 overs-side duration each. Five bowlers are allowed to bowl a maximum of six overs , and two of them can deliver five . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
