Bell tolls to put India on the back foot The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 29 , 2014 , 05.45AM IST Bell regained his scoring touch on a fast-drying playing surface that continues to yield good bounce and carry. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SOUTHAMPTON : Mahendra Singh Dhoni made a world record 20 bowling changes between the lunch and tea breaks in a bid to slow down the game but could not prevent England from piling up a mammoth 569/7 before skipper Alastair Cook declared in a bid to give his bowlers a crack at India in the final session on Monday . Mentally and physically fatigued after spending over 11 hours chasing the ball around at the Ageas Bowl arena , India made a wobbly start , losing opener Shikhar Dhawan in the seventh over of the innings but Murali Vijay and Cheteshwar Pujara stonewalled to prevent further damage . India , whose first target would be to save the follow-on , were 25/1 at close on Day 2 , trailing England by 544 runs. Vijay impressed once again with his ability to leave deliveries outside his off-stump , but James Anderson drew Dhawan into nibbling at an away going delivery to compound the left-hander 's misery. Pujara survived a few anxious moments to keep India 's spirits up . Anderson once again bowled beautifully , bending the ball both ways , but Chris Jordan was wayward in his two overs as England failed to apply pressure from both ends. India 's hopes of making a match of it largely depends on how their batsmen apply themselves to the task of piling up the runs . Earlier , Dhoni 's unique piece of captaincy after lunch , which saw him bowling his three pacers from the Pavilion End in one-over spells while Ravindra Jadeja bottled up the other , amused commentators , former players and spectators alike , but had little impact on a rampant Ian Bell , who hit a splendid 167 . Like his captain , Bell regained his scoring touch on a fast-drying playing surface that continues to yield good bounce and carry . And like Cook , Bell too needed a bit of luck to make it count. England 's premier middle-order batsman ought to have been back in the dressing room without a single run against his name in the final session on Sunday , but survived a strong LBW appeal off India 's debutant pacer Pankaj Singh . Replays suggested that the ball had pitched in line with the stumps and would have also gone on to hit them . However , unlike Cook , who missed his century by just five runs , Bell did n't let the opportunity slip . He brought up his 21st Test hundred by depositing Jadeja over long-off for a six . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
