Be more stern with players , Akhtar tells Misbah The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 15 , 2015 , 09.47PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 KARACHI : Pakistan 's former fast bowler Shoaib Akhtar has advised captain Misbah-ul-Haq to become more stern and be strong with the players if the team harbours hopes of doing well in the cricket World Cup . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " I am totally disappointed today at the way some of our batsmen played rash strokes and got out against India. I think Misbah has to shed some of his humbleness and calmness and deal with such players strongly , " Akhtar said on Geo News Channel after Pakistan lost their sixth straight match to India in World Cup history . " Look at Ahmed Shehzad he has been now around for three to four years and what was he trying to do. I would dare him to show this same irresponsible attitude if Imran Khan was captain he would be shown the door in no time , " Akhtar said . He said while it was true that the World Cup was still wide open and the team needed to be backed , it disappointed him to see the attitude of some players. " We saw Sohaib Maqsood laughing in the dressing room after he got out for a duck to a rank bad shot when his team required him to stay at the wicket. What attitude is this ? " He questioned . Akhtar said it was time Misbah stopped being a nice person. " They need to be told what they are required to do to remain in this team. This is Pakistan team not a club side. They let down millions of people today with their poor performances , " he said . Akhtar also felt it was time for Misbah to decide the future of senior batsman Younis Khan in the team. " Honestly speaking Younis should have left ODIs two years back but he is still playing... why because the board and selectors came under pressure after a media campaign , " Akhtar noted . He said the tour selection committee would have to seriously decide whether Younis warranted a place in the side in the remaining matches of the tournament . Former captain Rameez Raja also told Geo News that the defeat would have led to mental scarring of the Pakistani team . " I just hope they can rebound from this defeat because they now need to win all their matches and show more discipline and purpose in their cricket , " he said . He said Misbah as usual had played his role in the batting but the other batsmen needed to realise they must rally around their captain . " It was also a bad idea to not play a regular wicketkeeper and that must change in the next matches , " Rameez said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
