'Betting cheats ' nabbed at New Zealand , Sri Lanka match The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 14 , 2015 , 04.37PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH ( New Zealand ) : New Zealand police say they evicted several " betting cheats " from Saturday 's Cricket World Cup opener between New Zealand and Sri Lanka as part of an international crackdown on corruption . The spectators were accused of " court-siding " , the practice of relaying information from the ground to people overseas , taking advantage of broadcasting time delays to manipulate betting . " We know what to look for , " World Cup policing commander Sandy Manderson said without detailing how many people were caught . " We 're aware that people are attempting to operate at venues and they will be detected , evicted and trespassed from all venues. " Courtsiding is not illegal in New Zealand , but it is a breach of the terms and conditions of ICC Cricket World Cup tickets . It is different from match-fixing , which is the manipulation of sporting events to achieve a pre-determined outcome . As part of the operation at Hagley Oval , where New Zealand opened the World Cup with a 98-run win over Sri Lanka , plain-clothed police staff were stationed among spectators looking for excessive use of devices including lap-tops and cellphones . The International Cricket Council warned ahead of the World Cup it was cracking down on court-siding , or pitch-siding as it is also known , to ensure a corruption-free tournament in Australia and New Zealand . Ronnie Flanagan , head of the ICC 's anti-corruption and security unit , said the issue went far deeper than a few clever people getting one over on betting shops . " I think the risk is that this feeds into a wider and more sophisticated network of illegal betting , often in the Indian sub-continent , " he said . Flanagan , a former British chief constable , said the ICC was sharing information with the New Zealand and Australian governments as well as state administrations . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
