Bhuvi dismissal : Big doubt , no benefit The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Jan 10 , 2015 , 09.24AM IST Bhuvneshwar Kumar walks back to pavillion after being dismissed during Day 4 of the fourth and final Test against Australia at the Sydney Cricket Ground. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : The Indian cricket board 's ( BCCI ) anti-technology stance received a big boost when TV umpire Simon Fry gave Bhuvneshwar Kumar out on Friday even though replays suggested otherwise . Bhuvneshwar went at a full one outside off from Lyon and appeared to ram his bat into the ground the same time as the ball , which carried to first slip where Shane Watson reacted only with the feeblest of appeals . On-field umpires Kumar Dharmasena and Richard Kettleborough promptly deflected their decision-making capabilities upstairs , and subsequent replays suggested it was n't a catch. Yet doubts remained . How exactly did the ball deflect to slip ? Was it because the toe end of the bat had rammed the ball into the ground ? Clearly no edge had carried to Watson , and the decision to give it out came as a surprise for the thousands watching on the big screens . Throughout this tour , the Indian players have been harried by the local media , and Channel Nine 's commentators , for India 's decision not to use the Decision Review System ( DRS ) . No DRS is being used in this series , but the decision went upstairs nevertheless and proved that inconsistencies remain in the technology . Significantly , even with technology available , decision-making remains at the mercy of the personnel manning the tech , something the BCCI has been screaming from rooftops about . R Ashwin , for one , made his point clear while being wary of ruffling feathers. " I could say something and end up it trouble. I thought it ( the ball ) could have hit the ground and gone , but the umpire 's decision is final. I have been told that even in gully cricket. I am going to respect the umpire 's decision. Having said that , I found my teammate very unlucky. " Bhuvneshwar 's dismissal broke a 65-run stand and hit India hard , given the way the match is panning out. It makes one wonder , whatever happened to good old fashioned 'benefit of doubt ' ? Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
