Bhuvneshwar helps team find missing link The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Jul 19 , 2014 , 10.15AM IST At Trent Bridge , Bhuvneshwar became the only No. 9 to score two fifties and bag a five-wicket haul. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 Bhuvneshwar Kumar , that most unassuming of world-beaters , keeps rising in stature with every game. He boasts none of the imperiousness one generally associates with seam bowlers who can bat , and Alastair Cook and Co can be forgiven for not quaking in their boots at the prospect of a shy , determined Meerut lad consistently swaying whole sessions India 's way . Yet two days into the second Test he leads both the batting and bowling averages for his team. He averages 78.50 with the bat after three innings and has a five-wicket haul , with the prospect of more in the offing. His swing bowling exploits , though not wholly unexpected , have been the need of the hour and with the bat he has been a tail-end revelation , bailing India out thrice in succession . Crucially , his batting is devoid of the intemperance one associates with tailenders , giving India the all-round shot in the arm they so desperately needed on this tour . During the 90-run stand with Ajinkya Rahane at Lord 's , he fell just 14 short of being the first No. 9 to score three consecutive half-centuries. When he went out to bowl , he promptly swung it both ways and got rid of a leaden footed Cook , for starters , before proceeding to add the top order to his kitty . At Trent Bridge , he batted out 287 balls in total for a little over five hours and became the only No. 9 to score two fifties and bag a five-wicket haul . These are significant achievements and through them has come his most telling contribution -giving India a chance to again dream of a quality cricketer who can consistently contribute with bat and ball overseas . From Robin Singh to Ravindra Jadeja , generations of cricketers have flattered to deceive when it to comes to filling that most elusive niche. Since the days of Kapil Dev , India have had a slew of cricketers - think Reetinder Sodhi , Agarkar , Dinesh Mongia , Sanjay Bangar , Irfan Pathan , and on and on - who have been touted , often unfairly , as the next big all-round hope . MS Dhoni 's hand-wringing each time he mulls the prospect of playing five bowlers is understandable. Before the start of Tendulkar 's farewell series , he talked about the absence of Ravindra Jadeja and how " we need a good seamer or spinner who can bat " . Before the Trent Bridge Test , Dhoni repeated the need but mentioned Stuart Binny instead , saying , " We need somebody who can bowl 10 overs and bat. He ( Binny ) may not be as good as Jacques Kallis but he has the talent. " Dhoni failed to mention Bhuvneshwar , who has batted in England with surprising dash and spunk. He has shown promise before - in the 2012-13 season Bhuvneshwar averaged 43.72 in domestic cricket , including a 128 batting at No. 8 for Central Zone in a Duleep Trophy semifinal . " We all know Bhuvi can bat , what we did n't know is whether he could bat on the biggest stage , " said former India player and coach Madan Lal , who knows a thing or two about the pressures of being an all-rounder . " He is very close to having the skills of a good all-rounder and may swing the series India 's way. But his job is to pick three-four top-order wickets and contribute down the order. He needs to continue batting at No. 9 and not higher. Too many bowlers have lost their primary skill in the expectation that they can be a proper batsman. " As it turns out , Dhoni may not need a Kallis in England. If Bhuvneshwar can keep his poise with the bat and fox England with his swing , India will have had the all-rounder they so desperately craved before the series . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
