Bhuvneshwar Kumar bending 'em beautifully The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 20 , 2014 , 10.04AM IST Bhuvneshwar 's was only the third six-wicket haul by an Indian bowler after Bishan Singh Bedi 6/223 ( in 1974 ) and Amar Singh 's 6/36 ( in 1936 ) at Lord 's. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : He is no Sylvester Stallone , who played John Rambo in Hollywood blockbuster First Blood , for Bhuvneshwar Kumar neither has the build nor the charisma to fit the role , but given the fact that he is well-armed with the tricks of his trade and has been single-handedly demolishing the opposition , he qualifies to be called India 's one man army . The 24-year-old , unassuming lad from Meerut made history by becoming the third Indian bowler from UP after Rudra Pratap Singh ( 2007 ) and Praveen Kumar ( 2011 ) to claim a 'fifer ' on their maiden appearance at Lord 's . Bhuvi , as he fondly called by his teammates , who added two more wickets to his overnight tally to finish with figures of 6/82 on Saturday , became the 13th Indian bowler to make it to the Lord 's Honour Board which also bestows similar honour on century-makers here . Bhuvi 's was only the third six-wicket haul by an Indian bowler after Bishan Singh Bedi 6/223 ( in 1974 ) and Amar Singh 's 6/36 ( in 1936 ) . Bhuvi 's figures were the second-best by an Indian after Amar Singh 's at a ground where Australia 's Bob Massie claimed a record match haul of 16/137 on Test debut in 1974 before Indian leg-spinner Narendra Hirwani bettered it by one run in 1988 when he return match figures of 16/136 against the West Indies in Chennai . Bhuvi , who on Friday disclosed that he had benefitted from his senior state mate Praveen 's advice on how to bowl on English pitches , had an impish smile on his face at the end of England 's first innings. He had every reason to smile after having spent considerable time out there in the middle in the two Tests so far . Bhuvi , who had claimed 5/82 on Trent Bridge 's lifeless track in the first Test , took his series tally to 11 , halfway through the second match . The fact that he has also batted for over six hours in making an aggregate of 157 runs ( 58 and 63 not out in Trent Bridge and 36 in the first innings at Lord 's ) underlines the key role he has played for his team here . Bhuvi , of course , enjoyed bowling on a helpful Lord 's pitch . " The plan was to bowl outside the off-stump. There was a lot of assistance from the pitch so it was important to maintain discipline in line and length. I am really enjoying bowling in these conditions , " gushed Bhuvi , who also claimed to have learnt a few things from South Africa 's Dale Steyn during his stints with Sunrisers Hyderabad in the Indian Premier League . The British press here went ga-ga over Bhuvi 's control over line and length and his ability to swing the ball either way . " With precise , finger-tip control he coaxes the ball through the air , bending it one way , then the other , " wrote a celebrated columnist in his piece published on Saturday . From India 's point of view , there is just a minor regret - Bhuvi 's lack of pace . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
