Bihar cricket pins hopes on Dalmiya The author has posted comments on this article Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 PATNA : With Jagmohan Dalmiya back in the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) hot seat on Monday , young cricketers of the state must be anticipating the revival of the game after 14 years of lull following bifurcation of Bihar on November 15 , 2000 . Congratulating Dalmiya , Association of Bihar Cricket ( ABC ) president and Lok Sabha member Manoj Tiwari and its secretary Mithilesh Tiwari demanded full membership to Bihar. They said an ABC delegation will soon meet the BCCI chief to press the demand . It was Dalmiya who , on his election as BCCI president , had disaffiliated Bihar Cricket Association ( BCA , 1935 ) led by Lalu Prasad at the AGM on September 30 , 2001 , a day after his predecessor AC Muthiah had granted it full membership. Dalmiya , instead , had granted full membership to Jharkhand State Cricket Association led by Amitabh Choudhary , who has been elected BCCI joint secretary. That reduced Bihar cricket to the A , B , C as several organizations like Association of Bihar Cricket ( ABC ) led by former international cricketer Kirti Azad and Cricket Association of Bihar led by a group of ex-cricketers were born to counter the BCA which , finally , got associate membership at the BCCI September 27 , 2008 AGM. But , that also did not function smoothly and the first chunk of Rs50 lakh fund granted to BCA kicked off legal rows following allegations and counter allegations by its two factions , one led by Lalu and another by its secretary Ajay Narayan Sharma. Now , the BCA feud is in the Supreme Court which will hear on March 31 the special leave petition filed on November 29 , 2013 against a full bench judgement of Patna high court in favour of Sharma faction . Since most of the top BCCI functionaries elected on Monday are BJP men with Anurag Thakur becoming its secretary and Haryana 's Anirudh Choudhary the treasurer defeating Rajiv Shukla of Congress , politics is likely to factor after the Supreme Court decides the BCA case . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
