Both Sunny , Sachin back in the pavilion The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Dec 26 , 2014 , 08.21AM IST They were a neat cut. Gavaskar played in the first four World Cups and Tendulkar in the next six. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 One was nicknamed the Little Master and the other Master Blaster. Standing no more than five-feet-five , the little giants were the mainstay of Indian batting during their respective tenures. After the first one retired in late 1980s , the second soon took over the mantle. Such was their dominance that their influence on Indian and world cricket continues to linger even today . It 's Sunil Gavaskar and Sachin Tendulkar we 're talking about . The generation that grew up watching the former tackle the fiercest of fast bowlers with elan , grew old seeing the other torment bowlers all over the world. There is little doubt that cricket has lost quite a bit of charisma without their presence on the playing field . It will be felt all the more when India line up against Pakistan on February 15 in their first game of the World Cup at the Adelaide Oval. It will be the first time that India will play a World Cup with neither of the two legends in the squad . They were a neat cut. Gavaskar played in the first four World Cups and Tendulkar in the next six . Thus , one was always present in all the 10 editions held thus far . The fortunes of India in the World Cup have revolved around the fortunes of these two. India were minnows in the first two World Cups and that reflected in the performances of a young Gavaskar. Who can ever forget his 36 not out after batting for a full quota of 60 overs , in his and India 's first ever game in a World Cup against England in 1975 . There was hardly any worthwhile contribution from him in the first two editions as India lost five of their six games , the lone win coming against the unheralded East Africa. The irony was that when India won the World Cup in 1983 , Gavaskar was woefully out of form and hardly contributed much with the bat to the team 's cause. His major achievement was standing at first slip and grabbing all the chances with as surance , including two in the final against the West Indies . So reluctant was Sunny to be on the balcony with the team after winning the historic 1983 final , that skipper Kapil Dev had to drag him to the Lord 's balcony and hold up his right hand while the left was clutching a huge champagne bottle. Those images are still fresh , not only in the minds of those who were at Lord 's or were watching it live on TV that day , but also the subsequent generations which have seen the nostalgic clips umpteen times . It was ironic that when India emerged champions , Gavaskar had a forgettable World Cup and when he was at his best in the 1987 edition , India went on to lose the semifinals to England in Mumbai , with Graham Gooch sweeping strong-favourites India out of contention . If Gavaskar is remembered , rather dubiously , for the 36 not out in 1975 , his One-day cricket high came in 1987 where he scored his only hundred in the 50-over format — off 88 balls that left even the flamboyant Krish Srikkanth nodding in admiration . Tendulkar did not have any such cross to carry. He had the freedom to play his natural game , both in the Test matches as well as ODIs. However , initially he too struggled in the shorter format and it was not until he started to open the innings on the 1996 tour of New Zealand , did he become the Tendulkar we came to know thereafter in the ODIs . While Gavaskar became the part of the World Cup winning squad in his third edition , it took Tendulkar all of six editions to finally lay his hands on the World Cup. That was in 2011 in his beloved Mumbai . Tendulkar has confessed that he took to cricket as a 10-year-old lad after watching the 1983 World Cup and was a ball boy during Mumbai 's matches in the 1987 edition. Two years later , he was already in the Indian jersey , making his World Cup debut in the 1992 in Australia and New Zealand — the same countries where the next World Cup begins in 50 days , but without these legends around . GAVASKAR In 1983 World Cup , Gavaskar was dropped for two league games against the West Indies and Australia , and India lost both. The team management did not take a chance thereafter and played him in all the remaining matches , including the final , despite Gavaskar being in woeful form. India went on to win their maiden World Cup . These were the only matches missed by Gavaskar in the four World Cups he appeared in. He played all three matches in both 1975 and 1979 , six out of eight in 1983 and all seven in 1987 . TENDULKAR Tendulkar 's father passed away during the World Cup in 1999. He flew back to India and missed the game against Zimbabwe which India lost. Within a day he was back at the World Cup. He played a powerful innings and helped his team to a victory against Kenya. He scored a century , which he dedicated to his father . Unlike Gavaskar who played the World Cup only in England and India , Tendulkar played the World Cup in all the major cricketing countries -1992 ( Australia and New Zealand ) , 1996 ( India ) , 1999 ( England ) , 2003 ( South Africa ) , 2007 ( West Indies ) and finally 2011 ( India and Bangladesh ) , but none in Pakistan . In the six World Cup appearances ( 1992 to 2011 ) , Tendulkar amassed 2,560 runs at an average of 56.95 --the most by any player in the history of the event. Besides , his six centuries and 15 half-centuries are the most by any batsman . 50 Adam Gilchrist remains the only wicketkeeper to complete a half-century of dismissals at the World Cup - his tally being 52 ( 45 catches + 7 stumpings ) in 31 matches for Australia between 1999 and 2007 - the dismissals per innings being 1.677 . Ireland 's Kevin O'Brien required just 50 balls to reach his hundred during his innings of 113 off 63 balls vs England at Bangalore on March 2 , 2011 -the quickest in the history of the World Cup. He bettered Australia 's Matthew Hayden 's mark by 16 deliveries. Hayden , during his match-winning knock of 101 off 68 balls vs South Africa at St.Kitts on March 24 , 2007 , had reached his hundred off 66 balls . Stats : Rajesh Kumar Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
