Bowlers giving away runs cheaply : VVS Laxman The author has posted comments on this article Archiman Bhaduri , TNN | Dec 23 , 2014 , 09.30AM IST VVS Laxman said , " I feel we have been leaking out too many runs. When you give away runs cheaply , you fail to keep the pressure on your opponent and the game tends to drift away from you. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : VVS Laxman , one of India 's most successful batsmen Down Under , is not disappointed with the team 's show there , even though MS Dhoni 's boys are already down 0-2 in the four-match Test series . " Frankly speaking , India have done well so far in Australia. I was very impressed with how the team played in Adelaide ( first Test ) . They were fearless and positive , and were always looking for victory , " he said. " In Brisbane too , they played very well for most part of the match. Only that unexpected collapse in the second innings hurt them. It was just one bad session that cost them the game , " Laxman , who is here as batting consultant for Bengal 's Vision 2020 programme , felt . Although the Indian team failed to save both the Test matches , the former India international does not feel the need to press the panic button. " Going by the way India have batted so far in the series , I do n't think batting is a concern for us. I would say bowling is an area of worry , " he stated . Elaborating on this , Laxman said , " I feel we have been leaking out too many runs. When you give away runs cheaply , you fail to keep the pressure on your opponent and the game tends to drift away from you. So we should really work on our bowling and not give away easy runs to Australia. " Talking about the confusion on the fourth morning of the second Test created by an injury to opener Shikhar Dhawan during practice , Laxman felt the team management should have handled the situation better . " From the outside , it 's difficult for us to say what exactly happened in the dressing room on that day. But I would like to say that in international cricket , you have to be ready to combat different situations and challenges. The team should be ready to face any situation that may crop up , " he stated . But Laxman refused to buy the theory that India lost the Brisbane Test because of the Shikhar issue. " We did n't lose the match because of that. We lost the match because we did n't start the fourth day too well while Mitchell Johnson started excellently. He took crucial wickets in the morning session and that took the game away from India , " he remarked. The Hyderabadi stylist , however , is optimistic that India will come back in the series. " I do believe that India can still make a comeback in the series. But for that , it 's important to win the key moments in the match. India have to learn from their mistakes as quickly as possible , " he said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
