Brett Lee retires from all forms of cricket The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jan 15 , 2015 , 09.29AM IST Lee had retired from Test cricket at the beginning of 2010 and from all international cricket in July 2012. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Australian pace bowler Brett Lee on Thursday announced he is to retire from all forms of cricket after a 20-year career , saying he was both emotional and excited . The 38-year-old called time on his international commitments in July 2012 , but continued to play Twenty20 in both the Australian Big Bash League and the Indian Premier League . His Sydney Sixers have one Big Bash regular-season match remaining , against cross-town rivals the Sydney Thunder next Thursday at the Sydney Cricket Ground ahead of a possible finals clash . " When that last ball 's bowled I 'll walk off happy and content , " Lee said . " I 'm excited , I 'm emotional , I 'm happy , but I 'm certainly not worried because I know that I 've made the right call. " Lee played 76 Tests for Australia , taking 310 wickets , and 221 one-dayers with 380 dismissals . His fastest delivery cracked the 161 kilometres per hour mark ( 100 miles per hour ) , with the blond speedster consistently bowling at 150kph over 20 years , making him a fearsome opponent through his sheer pace and toe-crushing inswinging yorkers . " He has been an exceptional cricketer who gained fans around the world not only for his electrifying pace and performances with the ball , but the way that he played the game , " said Cricket Australia chief James Sutherland . " Sir Donald Bradman often said that it is a player 's responsibility to leave the game in a better state than when they first became involved. Brett Lee has certainly done that. " Brett Lee with the ICC Cricket World Cup trophy at Manly Beach in Sydney on January 2 , 2015. ( AFP Photo ) Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
