Bring back Yuvi , scream fans at SCG The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 24 , 2015 , 09.36AM IST Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : " Missing you , Yuvi. " " Bring back Yuvraj " . That will be the chant of the Indian fans at the SCG when India take on Australia on Monday. A large number of fans present at the Indian practice session were unanimous that flamboyant left-hander Yuvraj Singh ought to have been picked , for both the triseries and the World Cup . Most of them said Yuvi would have been a much better choice than some of the batsmen present here . They have been following the Punjab batsman 's fortunes in the Ranji Trophy. Amit Mehta , who originally hails from Jalandhar , said : " Yuvi has got three back-to-back centuries in domestic ( matches ) recently. His caliber can not be doubted. He has also proved his form. Besides , he is a useful left-arm spinner. It is grave injustice to him. I feel his absence is going to hurt India 's prospects. " Mohit Sharma , who has migrated from Jaipur and is a doctor at St Georges Hospital , said , " On the match-day a group of friends plan to wear Punjabi turbans and carry placards in support of Yuvraj. We really feel he should have been here. He is a class act. " Simran came to SCG all the way from suburbs for her son to meet the Indian stars at the nets. She said that she will be at the SCG on Monday . R Srinath , from Hyderabad , is backing Ambati Rayudu to come good. " Rayudu is a talented player. I know he has not lived up to it. But then , I have a feeling it will be his World Cup. He should be given a regular chance in the team and ( the team management should ) not tinker with his batting order. If he gets going , I do n't think the team will miss Yuvraj , " was his opinion . Balram Singh , who originally hails from Barnala in Punjab , differed with Srinath. " There is a big difference between the caliber of Yuvi and Rayudu. I think the selectors have made a big mistake by not including Yuvraj. He is a proven match-winner. On the day he gets going , there is no stopping him , " Balram said , countering his mate with a smile . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
