Buttler service impresses Alastair Cook The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jun 1 , 2014 , 10.47AM IST " Buttler does n't deserve to be on the losing side , playing like that , " Cook said. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : England captain Alastair Cook said Jos Buttler did n't deserve to be on the losing side after his stunning century so nearly led to a remarkable win over Sri Lanka . Cook 's side were all but out of the contest in the fourth one-day international at Lord 's when wicketkeeper/batsman Buttler came in with England 111 for five chasing a near-record 301 for victory . Yet the 23-year-old Lancashire gloveman then proceeded to make a maiden one-day international hundred off just 61 balls before falling in the final over . Sri Lanka , who 'd posted 300 for nine , won by seven runs to level the five-match series at 2-2 ahead of Tuesday 's finale at Birmingham 's Edgbaston ground . Buttler made 121 , including 11 fours and four sixes , off 74 balls. His actual century was the quickest , in terms of balls faced by an England batsman at this level , surpassing the 69 balls the now 'exiled ' Kevin Pietersen took to make a century against South Africa at East London in 2005 . Buttler also broke the equivalent Lord 's ground record of 82 balls for an ODI hundred that had stood since 1975 when West Indies great Clive Lloyd made a memorable century during the inaugural World Cup final . Together with Ravi Bopara ( 51 ) , Buttler shared a sixth-wicket stand of 133 as he replied to an impressive century by opposing wicketkeeper Kumar Sangakkara ( 112 ) and the left-hander 's partnership of 172 with Tillakaratne Dilshan ( 71 ) . But England ultimately paid the price for a slow start to their run-chase with Chris Jordan caught in the deep and Buttler run out in a tense final over from Lasith Malinga . " It 's a hell of an innings. He does n't deserve to be on the losing side , playing like that , " Cook said . " It 's one of the best innings I 've seen. " Buttler is not a physically imposing player but , blessed with the reflexes of a talented racquet-sports player , still manages to generate impressive bat speed . " I do n't know where he gets his power from , " said Cook , an orthodox opening batsman. " It is an incredible talent . " Having him coming in , you 're never out of the game. He 's got great hand-eye ( coordination ) , and his head is so still when he hits the ball so incredibly well. " But with Malinga reducing England to 10 for two by removing Cook and fellow opener Ian Bell , the hosts were always up against it . " When you lose wickets at the top of the order , you do have to rebuild and give yourself that chance to take the game deep , " added Cook. " You know you can catch up . " It 's not the ideal way of playing it -- because when you score 120 odd off 70 balls , you should win games of cricket . " But he ( Buttler ) almost got us there. " Sri Lanka captain Angelo Mathews was equally impressed by Buttler 's century , saying : " Jos played an unbelievable innings. He nearly took us apart , and took the game away from us . " He can hit the ball out of the park at any given time. He 's an extremely talented young player , who played the innings of his life. " However , Mathews added : " But we stuck to our plans , did the basic things right. " With Matt Prior struggling with an Achilles injury after being dropped during England 's 5-0 Ashes debacle in Australia and doubts over Jonny Bairstow 's suitability , there has been speculation regarding Buttler making could a Test debut come next month 's series opener against Sri Lanka at Lord 's . But there are doubts over whether Buttler 's glovework in particular is up to the task and Cook , while confident the former Somerset star would eventually play Test cricket , appeared to share those concerns . " He knows what he 's doing ( but ) I think he 's yet to find that in four-day cricket . " But a guy who is as talented as that , there 's no reason why he ca n't. I think he will become a very good Test player at some stage for England . " Talented people find ways to do that , but I do n't think he 's quite ready yet for that role. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
