Can Ashwin turn the tide at World Cup ? The author has posted comments on this article Prasad RS , TNN | Feb 10 , 2015 , 09.22AM IST Ashwin was picked in place of a regular off-spinner in an U-19 game against Andhra. Good performances with the ball over the years saw him get into the Ranji team. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 It was a bitterly cold night in Port Elizabeth. Chennai Super Kings were playing Victoria Bushrangers in a crucial game of the 2010 edition of the Champions League T20 , and the match had gone down to the Super Over . MS Dhoni threw the ball to R Ashwin , the offie who was still finding his feet on the bigger stage , and David Hussey smashed him for 22. CSK lost the match and Ashwin was devastated . It was his first big test and the rookie had flunked it. But the fighter that he is , he was not ready to take it lying down. He promised coach Sunil Subramaniam that he would fight back . He did so in style grabbing 13 wickets at an average of 11.69 , an effort which earned him the Player of the Tournament award. Ashwin had got on the highway to success . Fighting spirit is probably the offie 's biggest asset. Circa 2000 , as a 14-year-old budding cricketer , Ashwin suffered a severe pelvic injury , and was subsequently out of action for close to eight months . He went back to school , but found that someone else had taken his spot ( the opening position ) in the cricket team. His near and dear ones suggested he take to spinbowling , and it turned out to be a master move . It is this ability to turn challenges into opportunities that has , over the years , defined Ashwin. Add to that his academic bent of mind , Ashwin is a qualified IT engineer , and you have one of the most cerebral cricketers in the Indian team . Blessed with good height , a sharp brain and an eagerness to improve , opportunities started knocking on his door. Ashwin would make smart use of angles , length and width of the crease to fox batsmen. " Even at the age of 18 or 19 , he would set fields for batsmen. The interest he showed in his craft was phenomenal , " said Subramaniam . Ashwin was picked in place of a regular off-spinner in an U-19 game against Andhra. Good performances with the ball over the years saw him get into the Ranji team . As the IPL took shape , he broke into the CSK side. The men in yellow 's popularity and performances in the tournament coincided with Ashwin 's growing prominence as a vital member in the outfit . After gaining a reputation as a wily offie who outthought the batsmen with change of pace and flight , and someone who could score crucial runs lower down the order , Ashwin got his big break in June 2010 when he made his ODI debut against Sri Lanka in a Tri-series in Zimbabwe . The 28-year-old , part of the 2011 World Cup winning side , had to wait for his chances to play for India as Harbhajan Singh was the preferred choice. But Harbhajan 's loss of form coincided with Ashwin 's rising stature . His Test career took off with him bagging nine wickets on debut. By the time Ashwin played his first 16 Tests , he had bagged nine five-fors. He announced his arrival on the international arena by becoming the quickest Indian bowler to take 50 and 100 Test wickets . However , his inability to replicate his sterling efforts at home on away soil has earned him criticism. What also has n't gone down well with the purists is the desire to keep experimenting with his bowling action and bowl mystery balls especially in the longer format . In T20 cricket , these experiments work which makes him effective. ODI cricket is somewhere between the two extremes , and Ashwin has done well in the format , especially in India . But Australia is a different kettle of fish. Here the pitches do n't turn and it 'll be important for him to hit the right line and length and bowl an outside the off-stump line which is far more attacking instead of the middle and leg line which he has bowled right through the summer . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
