Can India square the series at the Oval ? The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 15 , 2014 , 10.27AM IST Dhoni and his men will have to play out of their skins to avoid series loss. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Team India will approach the fifth and final Test of the five-match series against England for the Pataudi Trophy with mixed feelings for reasons more than one . Only once in history that India won a five-Test series abroad was in 197071 in the West Indies and never ever won the last match in 11 such previous series they have been involved in . Down 1-2 in the current series , MS Dhoni and his boys will have play out of their skins to create history if they want to share the honours. England , with two big victories on the trot , have the momentum but India will fancy their chances at an overseas venue where they have drawn a record seven matches . All that is history , though , and the pitch at The Oval has changed its character over time. It is not the most hostile of the English pitches for sure but the strip here is certainly not the flat batting deck on which Indian teams registered one win and five draws between 1971 and 2007 . The pitch on offer here is a variant of the one that was used in 2011 when England had thumped India by an innings and eight runs to complete a 4-0 whitewash . The curator has left enough live grass on the pitch to make sure that England pacers enjoy home advantage , while firmness of the surface as it dries out under a bright sun should yield good bounce and bring the spinners into play. Off-spinner Graeme Swann had picked up nine wickets in the match last time , and even though England do n't have someone of his calibre , Moeen Ali could still be a handful . The bounce should also suit India 's R Ashwin , who gives the ball a fair bit of tweak . Spinners , though , are unlikely to run through sides here. Pacers are expected to rule the roost on the first couple of days when there is still moisture in the surface. The omens were not good for India with a sharp shower driving them away from outdoor to indoor nets even before the players could warm up . Dhoni confirmed that he will persist with a fifth bowler , which means India will have a split attack -three pacers and two spinners. With the team management confirming that Ishant Sharma , who had shown no discomfort while bowling in the nets on Wednesday , is available for selection , it is likely that Pankaj Singh will have to sit out. Only in the case Dhoni opts for a fourth pacer will Stuart Binny come in at the expense of Ravindra Jadeja -a possibility that may not be worth a wager . England , however , are unlikely to opt for continuity , which means that support pacers -Chris Jordan and Chris Woakes - are both likely to keep their spots. It hardly matters to Alastair Cook , who would be delighted to have Stuart Broad available . The lanky pacer , who singlehandedly destroyed India at Old Trafford in the first innings before copping a nasty blow on his nose while batting , has recovered sufficiently to share the new ball with James Anderson before taking time off for a long-pending knee surgery . It might be a good toss to win and bat first , but even if the coin does n't fall kindly for Cook , all he has to do is to keep attacking with either Broad ( 16 ) or Anderson ( 21 ) , who have together claimed 37 wickets in the series . It promises to be no different here even though the latter , who needs just eight more wickets to surpass Ian Botham ( 383 ) and become England 's leading wicket taker in Tests , does n't have a great record here . Expect India to show more grit and gumption over the next few days than at Old Trafford , but the odds are heavily in favour of England completing a hat-trick of series wins over India in a span of three years . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
