Can New Zealand seize the moment ? The author has posted comments on this article Ajit Bezbaruah , TNN | Jan 28 , 2015 , 12.36PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 New Zealand is a team that has always flattered to deceive. Over the years they have always come across as a very good fielding unit bolstered by some great individual talents , but never a world-beating force. So despite making it to the semifinals six out of 10 times , New Zealand have never entered a World Cup as favourites. Not even when they hosted the event along with Australia in 1992 . They actually created a storm in the preliminary stages of that 1992 tournament , winning eight out of the nine matches , thanks in part to Mark Greatbatch 's pinch-hitting at the top of the order. Even skipper Martin Crowe was in ominous form. So were Ken Rutherford , John Wright and Danny Morrison . New Zealand also introduced an element of surprise as they got off-spinner Dipak Patel to open the bowling. But as luck would have it , everything fell apart in the semifinal and Crowe , who pulled his hamstring while batting , watched with a strapped thigh from the sidelines as Pakistan stormed into the final. This current side has some exciting talent , including captain Brendon McCullum . On his day , he can take any attack to the cleaners. Then there is the explosive Corey Anderson , who has the second-fastest ODI hundred , off just 36 balls , to his name. Then there is Luke Ronchi , who recently smashed 170 off 99 balls against Sri Lanka while batting at No. 7 to lift New Zealand from 93-5 to a total of 3605. Ronchi and Grant Elliot , who made 104 not out , added 267 runs for the unbroken record sixthwicket partnership . And do n't forget Kane Williamson , who is supremely talented and technically sound . In Tim Southee , Kyle Mills , Mitchell McClenaghan and Corey Anderson , they have a very good seam attack . Elliot , Trent Boult , Tom Latham and Adam Milne can wheel their arms t good effect whenever the need occurs. And then there are Ross Taylor and Daniel Vettori , the two key spokes in the New Zealand wheel and the elder statesmen. New Zealand are a very likely semifinal candidate in this edition too. But do n't forget , like in 1992 , they are playing at home , and it wo n't be surprising if McCullum 's team outdo Crowe 's and succeed in pushing their team to the final. If they do , it will be a turning point . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
