Can Team India get the combo right this time ? The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Jan 5 , 2015 , 10.46AM IST Indian captain Virat Kohli ( left ) and Shikhar Dhawan talk during team 's training session ahead of their fourth and final Test against Australia in Sydney. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Virat Kohli 's first challenge as captain will be to get the combination right for the fourth Test. India 's lineup has n't worn a settled look all through the series and it 's no different this time around . Sydney is reeling under a spell of dry heat and the pitch is likely to break up over the course of the game. Playing two spinners , though , seems a luxury right now for the visitors given the absence of a seaming all-rounder. Even Australia , however , have called upon the left-arm orthodox spin of Ashton Agar as a standby . If Kohli plays three quicks like earlier , will he risk Bhuvneshwar Kumar 's dodgy ankle ahead of the World Cup ? The series is gone but workhorse Ishant Sharma , though he did not bowl in the nets on Sunday , looks good for one more go . Varun Aaron was back steaming in at the batsmen and may replace Mohammmad Shami. Umesh Yadav has had some impressive spells , and much might depend on India getting the reverse swing going in these conditions . But Kohli has been known to think left of centre and may be tempted to fall back upon the leggie Karn Sharma , who made his debut in Adelaide. There 's also Axar Patel , who has come in for the injured Ravindra Jadeja . The batting too might need tinkering. Does Kohli finally give Suresh Raina a go , in the hope that the left-hand batsman can also pitch in with a few handy overs of spin on a surface which has traditionally been turn-friendly ? If so , who does he leave out ? India 's nets sessions can offer up some slippery red herrings but like in Melbourne , Raina seemed in the thick of things on Sunday and also dished out a healthy dose of his off-spinners . KL Rahul , who had a nightmarish debut Test but would feel hard done by if he is dropped after just one go , interspersed his batting sessions with long chat sessions with team director Ravi Shastri . The pressure is also on Shikhar Dhawan and Cheteshwar Pujara , to a lesser extent , but they are likely to keep their spots for now. The flatter SCG might suit their batting styles too . While Australia have had no compunctions in naming their lineup a day ahead of every Test , the XI has always been a closely-guarded secret in Indian cricket. All eyes will be on the nets closer to the Test . Meanwhile , Wriddhiman Saha had a bandaged thumb , but there seems no immediate reason for MS Dhoni to come out of retirement ! Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
