Can the Indian team 'beard ' the new lion ? The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 13 , 2014 , 09.59AM IST England 's Moeen Ali embraces teammate Joe Root ( R ) after dismissing Cheteshwar Pujara during the fourth Test at Old Trafford. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MANCHESTER : It is not easy to steal the limelight from James Anderson , who is tipped to become England 's leading wicket-taker in Tests at The Oval. Anderson , who will be playing his 99th Test , has 376 wickets under his belt and needs eight more to surpass Ian Botham 's tally of 383 . Anderson , with 20 wickets already in the series and two Man-of-the-Match awards under his belt , is a leading contender for the Man-of-the-Series trophy. But Anderson is facing serious competition - not from his fellow-pacers or Indian rivals - from a very unlikely quarter . Moeen Ali , whose presence in the England line-up is primarily because of his ability to give the cricket ball a fair tweak and his gutsy batting , has surprised all cricket pundits by dismissing as many as 19 Indian batsmen in four Tests . Lest his heroics in Southampton , where he picked up six for 67 to spin India out in the second innings , be deemed as a fluke , the bearded all-rounder plucked out four more at Old Trafford to hasten India 's downfall . The ease with which he has fooled some of the best players of spin bowling has confounded experts. He is no Graeme Swann , nor is he in the same league as Monty Panesar , but Ali has proved to be a handful. The stuff he bowls is not as complicated as the Gaza issue in whose support he had worn wristbands before being ordered by the ICC to take them off . His clever change of pace and trajectory has been pretty effective so far. It is also pleasing to see him getting a bit of drift. He has become somewhat of a cult figure among English fans. At his home county Worcestershire , fans have been sporting T-shirts with " the beard that is feared " written on it. Incidentally , Moeen has picked up the nuances of off-spin from his senior Worcestershire teammate , Pakistan 's Saaed Ajmal whose bowling action has been called into question by the ICC . England are hoping that Moeen has not picked up the 'wrong ones ' from Ajamal and will play a crucial role at The Oval , where spinners traditionally get a lot of purchase . Indian batsmen have to find a way to beard this English 'lion ' if they want to square the series . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
