Captain Virat the last man standing as India complete 5-0 whitewash The author has posted comments on this article Sourav Modak , TNN | Nov 17 , 2014 , 09.54AM IST Virat Kohli celebrates his century during 5th ODI against Sri Lanka in Ranchi on Sunday. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 RANCHI : The match was inconsequential but those who braved it on Sunday to half fill the stadium , returned home with an experience to cherish for some time . Both the captains ' scores were level at 139 not out but India skipper and Man of the Series Virat Kohli 's knock mattered most at the end of the day as it won India the match by three wickets for a 5-0 whitewash over Sri Lanka . Man of the Match Angelo Mathews played a superb knock to take his side to 286/8 but it was not enough to give them the consolation and face-saving victory before returning home. For India , the win did n't come easy on a wicket which had something for everyone . To make it more interesting , the hosts made heavy weather of the chase even after being on course for an easy win. And if it was not for the cool and composed Kohli , the end result could have been different. On a pitch where stroke-making was became increasingly difficult as the ball came slow and sometimes low , Sri Lanka choked the flow of runs by keeping Kohli out of strike . The blame lies with India who kept on losing wickets at regular intervals. Instead of giving strike to Kohli , the batsmen at other end lost their wickets trying to go for big shots themselves. This not only put pressure on Kohli but also shot up the required rate well over 8 runs per over . Given the aggressive nature of Kohli 's batting it was interesting to see him get to his hundred with 10 fours and without any hit clearing the rope. But it was pure joy for the skipper as he guided Shaminda Eranga to third man for a single to reach his hundred. It was his 21st ODI century and fourth of the year which also saw him go past the 1000-run mark in the calendar year . It was after the fall of Ashwin that Kohli stepped on the gas to take back control of the match and young Akshar Patel gave him the support needed at the other end. Kohli finished off the match with a six off Mendis over long on . Ambati Rayudu played a good knock of 59 and shared a 136-run partnership for the third wicket before being run out following a mix-up with skipper Kohli . The visitors were found wanting in every department save Mathews whose all-round show went in vain. The Lankan captain took 2-33 with the ball. Had it not been for the heavy dew , spinners Ajantha Mendis and Seekkuge Prasanna might have troubled Indians more. The wet outfield made fielding near the boundaries a problem as players slipped on a few occasions . Earlier , starting in a slow but steady fashion , Mathews scored a brilliant unbeaten 139 off 116 balls , his maiden ODI ton , with six fours and 10 sixes and shared a 128-run partnership for the fifth wicket with his deputy Lahiru Thirimanne ( 52 ) to help his side recover from 85/4 . Kedar Jadhav made his international debut for India in a match the hosts played with three spinners as there was visible help for the tweakers . Opting to bat first , Sri Lanka made the best start by either side in the series , scoring 37 runs in first five overs but lost two quick wickets in the form of debutant Niroshan Dickwella and his opening partner Tillakaratne Dilshan inside six overs . India consolidate No. 1 ODI rank Dubai : World champions India have consolidated their top rank on the ICC ODI team rankings after sweeping the series against Sri Lanka , which concluded in Ranchi on Sunday. India had started the series at the third position on 113 ratings points and has finished on 117 ratings points - two ratings points clear of SA , which is involved in a five-ODI series against Australia . In contrast , Sri Lanka have retained their fourth position but slipped to 108 ratings after conceding three ratings points. It now hosts England in a seven-ODI series , leading Alastair Cook 's side by one ratings point . However , with the Australia-SA series locked at one-all , both sides have an opportunity to regain the No. 1 ranking. But to make this happen , either side will have to win the remaining three matches. If Australia wins the series 4-1 , then it will move ahead of India by a fraction of a point . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
