Chance for Indian players to state their case as Lanka ODI series starts The author has posted comments on this article Pratik Bandyopadhyay , TNN | Nov 2 , 2014 , 10.53AM IST Sri Lanka captain Angelo Mathews and Virat Kohli unveiling trophy at Barabati stadium on Saturday. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CUTTACK : Sri Lanka 's cricketers , who have had to rush over here virtually unprepared for the ODI series following West Indies ' sudden pullout , will provide Indian players a chance to assess preparations ahead of the 2015 World Cup . The body language of the Indian cricketers was in stark contrast to those of the Lankans a day before the first One-dayer at the Barabati Stadium. The Indians , who admittedly play more matches round the year than the Lankans do , looked the more enthusiastic lot . Sri Lanka 's cricketers no doubt feel that their aborted fitness programme - disrupted because of this series - had some justification in a season that involves the World Cup . Sri Lankan captain Angelo Mathews has already expressed his dissatisfaction with the preparation for this tour but his boys are fierce competitors. Trust them to make India work for every run and wicket . Perhaps the Indians are hungrier to prove themselves because there are a lot more places up for grabs in India 's World Cup squad. As for Lanka , Mathews clearly said on Saturday that injury forced Lasith Malinga out of this tour. They also deliberately left out Rangana Herath to relatively inexperienced spinners like Suraj Randiv and Seekkuge Prasanna.Apart from that , there are not many spots to be filled for the big tour in February . Virat Kohli , meanwhile , said Indian players are looking at this series as an opportunity to earn a ticket to Australia and New Zealand. India are searching for bowlers who are really quick and can bowl yorkers at the are really quick and can bowl death. As Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Mohammad Shami are not there in this series , it 's a chance for Umesh Ya dav and Varun Aaron to state their case . They will be competing as much against the Lankan batsmen as themselves. It remains to be seen whether Ishant Sharma is given another chance to prove himself as the third seamer , or whether the team management will opt for Dhawal Kulkarni . Both Ravichandran Ashwin and Ravin dra Jadeja are certainties. If Kohli follows Dhoni 's lead in depending more on spin , then there will be space for the experienced Amit Mishra or the young Axar Patel - the two ahead of others in the race for the third spinner 's slot for the World Cup . But playing three spinners could backfire here if Kohli loses the toss and Indian bowlers are to handle dew in the day-night encounter. Nobody is sure how much the dew will be a factor . With the top three of Indian batting looking settled and yet Rohit Sharma lurking , the man under pressure is Ambati Rayudu . He is yet to make the No. 4 spot his own . Here is another chance . In case you forget , that batting lineup also has a stalwart in Suresh Raina , who will be playing his 200th ODI. His is one spot not worth fighting for. He may still be circumspect on faster , bouncier pitches but in India he is almost invincible. With the curator expecting the 22 yards to be a " 280-300 surface " and the presence of hard hitters like Thisara Perera. rator expecting the 22 yards to be a " 280-300 surface " and the presence of hard hitters like Thisara Perera . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
