Changed batting stance helping Yuvraj Singh The author has posted comments on this article Makarand Waingankar , TNN | Feb 5 , 2015 , 11.54AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 From England 's Peter Willey to Shivnarine Chanderpaul of the West Indies , bats men have made subtle changes in their stance to improve their own efficacy . Yuvraj Singh has done precisely that over the last couple of months for a remarkable turnaround : he has compiled 632 runs in six matches , and just 10 innings , scoring three 100s and two 50s. He is even averaging 63.20 so far. The left handed batsman has almost always taken the leg-stump guard ; this season , he has been batting leg-and-middle . This shift has enabled him to judge the line and length better , even giving him a much better idea of his off-stump. The change has perfected his balance too , ensuring the effectiveness of his drives . Explaining the advantages , an equally attacking batsman , Salim Durrani says : " In cricket , most bowlers are right-handed. They attack the left-hander 's off-stump with a cluster of slip fielders. Yuvraj must have realised that standing on leg-stump makes him vulnerable to playing deliveries on off-stump especially while playing drives . " Shrewd bowlers sometime angle the ball in and that makes things difficult for the batsman. To counter this line of attack on several occasions I too have taken the leg and middle guard. On the tour of West Indies in 1961-62 I scored a century against genuinely quick bowlers by being on leg and middle. " Old-timers point out that Ajit Wadekar , after the England tour of 1967-68 , preferred the two-eyed stance like that of MAK Pataudi. Wadekar says , " In England sight-screens were small and there is the problem of light. One of the right-handed fast-bowlers , John Price would start his run-up from beyond mid-on. To get a better view of his grip , quite unknowingly , I opened my stance and I felt comfortable . " I realised I was on leg and middle and was able to judge the length and line quite easily. I also knew where my off-stump was and that helped me in playing shots on both sides. After returning to India I continued with that stance , though light is better in India , and was consistently getting big scores. How one adapts is important. " Yuvraj , who did n't make the cut for the World Cup squad , knows that it 's not the end of the world. In fact , there is speculation down under that in case reinforcements are needed , he will be first in that list . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
