Changes focus on symptom , not the disease The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 20 , 2014 , 11.28AM IST It is not the first time that the BCCI has chosen to undermine the authority of a foreign coach handpicked by them. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : The Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) - stung by India 's 1-3 series loss in England - has , once again , opted for a line of treatment that focused on the symptom , not the disease . The BCCI , instead of addressing the issues faced by a young team , created a new post - director of cricket - and handed over the team 's reins to Ravi Shastri for the ensuing ODI series against England . In a move that BCCI sources described as " necessary and corrective " , Shastri will have the final say on all cricketing issues. With the BCCI also asking bowling coach Joe Dawes and fielding coach Trevor Penney to " take a break " and appointing Sanjay Bangar and Bharat Arun as assistant coaches and R Sridhar the new fielding coach , the future of head coach Duncan Fletcher looks uncertain . It is a big promotion for Shastri , who had previously held the team 's reins on India 's short tour of Bangladesh in 2007 after coach Greg Chappell tendered his resignation. Shastri , who has been the BCCI 's unofficial spokesperson for some time now , will be the big boss of Indian cricket for the next few weeks . It is not the first time , though , that the BCCI has chosen to undermine the authority of a foreign coach handpicked by them. John Wright , the first foreigner to take charge of Team India , had to share coaching space with Sunil Gavaskar , who had been appointed batting consultant for a while . And the last time BCCI had sought Shastri 's services , he had been made the cricket manager/coach of the team. His current post will see him wield considerable power. Even the chairman of the selection committee will report to him during his short assignment . The BCCI 's move to elevate Shastri is a clear indication of no confidence in Fletcher , who , having done precious little since 2011 , will have practically nothing to do even in the nets where skipper MS Dhoni will now be assisted by the four Indian appointees . There is a line of thinking that Fletcher , who is unlikely to find the situation to his liking , may put in his papers soon. The BCCI , of course , has the option of paying his contracted amount and letting him go , but having renewed Fletcher 's deal till the end of the 2015 World Cup earlier this year , they clearly do n't want to be held accountable for it. Instead , they are hoping that the Zimbabwe-born coach will take the hint and go quietly and not force their hand . Technically speaking , Fletcher , Penney and Dawes all continue to be on BCCI rolls , but their days with the India team are over . Fletcher , in fact , ought to have seen the writing on the wall when the BCCI quietly roped in Rahul Dravid in a mentoring role at the start of the England tour. Dravid was seen sharing his knowledge and expertise - a domain that clearly belonged to Fletcher - with Indian players in the nets at Trent Bridge and Lord 's . Dravid , who went back after the third Test , is the odds-on favourite to succeed Fletcher but he has to balance his family commitments first. With the World Cup just six months away and no clear alternative to Fletcher in sight , the BCCI will have to make another temporary appointment for the home series against the West Indies before they find someone more suitable to hire , and fire , at their own convenience . Both Penney and Dawes owe Indian fans an explanation for their failure to impart the basics to our young players. It would be interesting to know whether they had chosen to be soft with their pupils in order to be popular or our glam boys were too cocky for their own good . An honest answer probably would be a mixture of both . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
