Cheteshwar Pujara - There are cracks in the 'new wall' The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Jan 3 , 2015 , 08.52AM IST Pujara now averages only 29.40 with the bat in 14 Tests away from home , with one century. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : One heir-apparent , Virat Kohli , has slipped seamlessly into the shoes of MS Dhoni as Test captain. The other , Cheteshwar Pujara , arguably had the more difficult task of easing into Rahul Dravid 's spot as India 's No. 3 batsman. He is struggling to live up to the promise. While it ca n't be said Pujara has failed in the role , his demotion to No. 6 in the second innings of the Boxing Day Test - even as a debutant prone to brain-freeze took his usual spot - was the culmination of a long year of failure away from home . As he takes stock of the year gone by , Pujara can be forgiven for feeling a bit flummoxed. While at times he has flattered to deceive and squandered away starts , at other times his technique has infuriated. To top it all off , in Australia , poor decisions have dogged him like the tortoise chasing the hare . The crux of the matter is that Pujara now averages 29.40 with the bat in 14 Tests away from home , with one century. If one goes purely by the numbers it 's not enough for him to keep his spot in the team. But it 's not that easy in Pujara 's case. He is an old-fashioned batsman of laudable technical faculties and single-minded devotion to his craft . Plus he averages 75.23 , with five centuries including two double tons , in home conditions . Pujara 's problem in Australia has been the inability to handle the bounce well enough to play the horizontal bat shots because of his less-than-precise balance and footwork. He has n't been smart enough to adjust. Often , like in Melbourne , bowlers have softened him up with the short ball and then got the batsman to flirt in the corridor of uncertainty . Bad luck has played its part . In Brisbane , he was unlucky to be given out off a short-pitched delivery from Hazlewood when the ball came off the grill of the helmet. At other times he has been foxed by deliveries laced with genius cunning - like the off-cutter from Mitchell Johnson which followed a few short ones - or a spectacular catch from the likes of Haddin. But scores of 73 , 21 , 18 , 43 and 25 primarily suggest a crisis of confidence . Is the introverted Pujara thinking too much about his technique and lack of big scores , and hence losing his concentration in the middle ? He has , after all , been under pressure to perform coming to Australia , the scores having deserted him in England -where he averaged 22.20 from five Tests - and New Zealand , where he averaged 15. Those who keep an eagle eye on technical matters have been quick to prise out Pujara 's weaknesses. In Adelaide , the astute Shane Warne correctly predicted on air that Pujara would be dismissed caught behind off Lyon on Day 5 , seconds before it actually occurred . The end result has been confusion. What does a batsman do if his strengths suddenly become weaknesses ? Pujara is a cricketer who has prided himself on being technically correct , on possessing the patience of the saints he is devotional about. Being told repeatedly that he is n't up to scratch either in the seaming conditions in England or the bouncy surfaces of Australia can be galling . " My strength is my technique , " Pujara said. " I do n't want to talk about my technique in public or reveal my weaknesses . As a player you have tough times . New Zealand and England did n't go my way. When you fail , that 's the time to grow up and handle the pressure. When you are successful you do n't worry about your game or mental strength. " MS Dhoni was forthcoming on Pujara 's travails but seemed happy with the batsman 's preparations. " If you just see the stats it will become very interesting , " he said. " We played five Tests in England and that means 10 innings and we all know Pujara had a lean patch over there. So we have to break down the stats. Every batsman goes through a lean patch . Over here in Australia he has been quite good. He has also got a couple of bad decisions. But he is quite prepared to address the situation. " In the months following Dravid 's retirement , it seemed Pujara was more than up to the task of being the No. 3 bulwark the team needed him to be. But the chinks are now too many to ignore . " Primarily I want to be a batsman who bats well in all conditions , " he said. Pujara knows he is not there yet . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
