RELATED ARTICLES RELATED KEYWORDS : Chokers in the pack : South Africa or New Zealand ? Who will get over their semifinal jinx ? The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 24 , 2015 , 02.01AM IST SA and NZ : They play the same brand of attacking cricket , they have a couple of quality pacers and a good spinner in their line-ups ; in addition to that , they suffer from the same affliction – choking at the crunch . Page 1 of 4 READ ALSO : No one can stop us , says South Africa skipper AB de Villiers There have not been many battle of equals in this World Cup. But rarely are two teams so similar in nature pitted against each other. They play the same brand of attacking cricket , they have a couple of quality pacers and a good spinner in their line-ups ; in addition to that , they suffer from the same affliction - choking at the crunch . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 While New Zealand have lost six semifinals , South Africa 's first ever win in World Cup knockouts came only last week - in the quarterfinal against Sri Lanka in Sydney. South African skipper AB de Villiers smiled when reminded of it : " There has been a lot of emphasis on our past and South Africa not doing well at the World Cups. We do n't mind that too much. " READ ALSO : Guptill , not history counts for New Zealand , says McCullum It 's clear that they intend to portray an air of confidence ; they did n't even allow the world to catch a glimpse of their preparations on match eve.The South Africans , just like in the quarters , switched off from practice on Monday , and it was only AB who was at the ground finishing the media assignments . New Zealand , on the other hand , had a two-hour training session. They have been disoriented a bit by the injury to one of the key members of their team - Adam Milne.He suffered an injury to his left heel and an MRI scan revealed a significant swelling around the region. Canterbury medium-pacer Matt Henry has been drafted into the squad , but the New Zealand management did n't confirm whether the new boy will get the nod in the playing XI . Will South Africa shed the " chokers " tag this time ? ( Reuters Photo ) " Adam was doing the job of the third pacer very well for us. It 's a big blow and we will have to redraw our strategies , " coach Mike Hesson said after practice . South Africa , too , have a selection worry , but it 's more due to a key allrounder - Vernon Philander - returning fit.Kyle Abbott has a done a decent job and it 's going to be a tough selection for them . Eden Park , historically , is known to be a good chasing ground , but both South Africa and New Zealand messed it up trying to run down low scores in their respective games at the venue. The Kiwis finally managed a one-wicket win against Australia , but South Africa crashed to their worst loss of the tournament against Pakistan . Lovely letter from Brendan McCullum to every office boss in New Zealand ! pic.twitter.com/8OarRodzHo
