Chris Gayle hints at retirement from Test cricket The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Mar 5 , 2015 , 08.28PM IST Chris Gayle has played 103 Tests with an average of 42.18 including 15 centuries and 37 fifties. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 PERTH : West Indies opener Chris Gayle has hinted at the possibility of retiring from Test cricket if his recurring back problem can not cope with a tight international schedule . Gayle said he plans to assess his future after the World Cup when he meets with West Indies Cricket Board ( WICB ) officials. However , he says his passion for playing Test cricket remains , reports CMC . " I do ( feel passionate about playing Tests ) , to be honest with you. It is just that lately this back problem has kind of pushed me away a bit from Test cricket. To be able to go five days , it has been tough , " Gayle said . The West Indies are due to play three Tests against England in April-May , two against Australia in June , three against Sri Lanka in October and again against Australia in December. Unconfirmed reports even suggested that they might return to India to complete their abandoned tour . " I have n't sorted my situation yet , which is the back problem. That is another concern because I 've been playing cricket straight on the road and really did n't get a chance to spend the time and give the back as much time to heal , " Gayle pointed out . Gayle , 35 , has played in only 18 of the 41 Tests the West Indies have contested since March 2010. He could not finish his last match against Zimbabwe at home in September owing to the lower back injury which also ruled him out of the Test series in South Africa preceding the World Cup . " After the World Cup we will see what happens. Where Chris Gayle will actually head. Or you can sit and discuss and work out how we go about playing for West Indies cricket , " he said . Gayle has played 103 Tests with an average of 42.18 including 15 centuries and 37 fifties . However , he will be seen in action against India in a World Cup Pool B game at the WACA on Friday . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
