Chris Gayle , the rebel with many causes The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 24 , 2015 , 02.18PM IST West Indies batsman Chris Gayle celebrates his double century during the 2015 Cricket World Cup Pool B match against Zimbabwe. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : He 's the rebel with plenty of causes , most of which have put him at loggerheads with West Indies officialdom , but no-one can deny that Chris Gayle is cricket box-office , a globe-trotting superstar with a bat for hire . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The 35-year-old Jamaican left-hander smashed the highest individual World Cup score of 215 on Tuesday , equalling the number of sixes in a one-day international innings with 16 and playing the alpha-male role in a record ODI partnership of 372 with Marlon Samuels . List of top-10 knocks in ODIs His innings came just days after West Indies Cricket Board ( WICB ) president Dave Cameroon embarrassingly retweeted a fan 's call for the mercurial batsman to be pensioned off after another flop at the wicket . " I was under pressure to score runs , and I kept getting messages from Twitter and on my cell phone from fans. I have never known so many people wanting Chris Gayle to do so well , " Gayle said . Gayle is and has been one of his team 's few genuine match-winners in an era when the former kings of the sport have often been reduced to a supporting role . But his roller-coaster relationship with the WICB has threatened his legacy . On the eve of the World Cup , he accused the ruling body of victimization for dropping Dwayne Bravo and Kieran Pollard from the squad as punishment for their role in last October 's abandoned tour of India , a controversial gesture which landed the WICB with a bill for $ 42 million in compensation . Gayle , as a result , has been summoned to appear before a disciplinary commission to explain his outburst . Being carpeted is nothing new for Gayle , the reggae-loving , fast-car driving , unofficial trade unionist for the squad . Back in 2009 , he was one of the leading figures in the decision to boycott a home series against Bangladesh , with all senior players refusing to take part in the Tests and one-dayers in a familiar row over money . Six years on , Gayle is still in combative mood and on the eve of the team 's departure for the World Cup he refused the offer of a central contract with speculation that with his patience for Test cricket waning , the hard-hitting batsman may call time on his international career . Not that he 'll be without offers of employment after his market value shot up on a dank , cloudy afternoon at Canberra 's Manuka Oval on Tuesday . His CV already lists 13 teams -- West Indies , Barisal Burners , Dhaka Gladiators , ICC World XI , Jamaica , Jamaica Tallawahs , Kolkata Knight Riders , Matabeleland Tuskers , Royal Challengers Bangalore , Stanford Superstars , Sydney Thunder , Western Australia and Worcestershire . Gayle is hot-wired for Twenty20 cricket -- he hit the first century in Twenty20 internationals against South Africa in the World Twenty20 in 2007 and at the 2013 Indian Premier League he smashed 175 . But his 103 Tests have also proved fruitful since his 2000 debut. Against Sri Lanka at Galle in 2010 , he batted almost ten hours and scored 333 to become the only the fourth batsman to score two triples in Test cricket . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
