CIC an eyewash , feels Dilip Vengsarkar The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Jan 24 , 2015 , 10.28AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : On a day which saw Mumbai suffer its first innings defeat in the Ranji Trophy in 64 years , Mumbai Cricket Association ( MCA ) president Sharad Pawar claimed in the AGM that he had reacted to the domestic champs ' poor performance across all age groups for the past couple of seasons 'seriously ' by reviving the Cricket improvement Committee ( CIC ) . The CIC , which will include eminent former cricketers like Ajit Wadekar , Madhav Apte , Ajit Agarkar , Milind Rege , Abey Kuruvilla and Vinod Kambli , will be responsible for all the cricketing decisions of the association. Unlike its earlier version , which was scrapped back in 2012 , this committee will be 'independent, ' which means none of its decisions ( to appoint coaches and selectors ) will need approval from the managing committee . While many have hailed Pawar 's move , the idea has n't cut much ice with former India skipper and chief selector Dilip Vengsarkar . " It is an eyewash , a cosmetic exercise. It 's not going to help anything , " he told TOI on Friday. " There is no point in appointing the CIC at the fag end of the season. As we proposed in the AGM today , the MCA must hold elections before June 30 , in fact , in April ideally. This will give the new committee time to prepare for the season. Last time , the elections were held in October , which left the new committee with no time to plan , since the new season had almost begun , " he said . Having never seen such a massive defeat for Mumbai has naturally left Vengsarkar deeply hurt. " Mumbai have lost before , but the way they have lost this game is concerning. The MCA will have to take corrective measures.They need to work at the grassroots level , " he felt . The 116-Test veteran squarely blamed the MCA administrators for the current on-field mess. " There is no question about it. In the last three years , they have taken Mumbai cricket back by about 10 years. It will now take time to bring Mumbai cricket back on track , " he said . To prevent the entry of politicians in the MCA who have little experience of cricket administration , Vengsarkar had seconded a proposal floated by Mahim Juvenile Club in the AGM on Friday that only those who have attended at least four AGMs , will be allowed to file a nomination for the posts of an office-bearer ( president , vice-president , joint secretary and treasurer ) of the association. Similarly , one will have to attend at least two AGMs to be eligible for membership of the managing committee. Pawar , however , felt that since the proposal amounted to a 'constitutional amendment, ' it will have to be discussed in the MC , which can then call a special general meeting ( SGM ) to discuss its implementation . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
