Clarke retires from ODIs as World Champion The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 29 , 2015 , 05.13PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : In a dream farewell , Michael Clarke on Sunday retired from ODIs after leading Australia to their fifth cricket World Cup title , scoring a match-winning 74 in his swansong appearance to get a standing ovation from a 93,000-strong crowd at the MCG here . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Australia outplayed New Zealand by seven wickets as Clarke became the fourth Australian captain after Allan Border ( 1987 ) , Steve Waugh ( 1999 ) and Ricky Ponting ( 2003 , 2007 ) to win the coveted 50-over prize in world cricket . Clarke , who is just three days short of his 34th birthday , goes out after playing 245 ODIs scoring 7981 runs with eight hundreds and 58 half-centuries. He will , however , continue to play for Australia in Test format . The stylish right-hander , who has been under immense pressure to hold his place in the ODI side , announced his retirement after the semifinal win against India in Sydney. 'Pup ' , as he is fondly called , said the time was just right to bid adieu to ODIs . " Time is right to walk away from one-day cricket , I 'll still be playing Test cricket and I am over the moon , " Clarke said at the presentation . Talking about his number 23 jersey that was presented to him by spin legend Shane Warne , Clarke said , " ( I ) might give it back to Warney... Have n't given it much thought " . It has been a quite a summer for the Australians after young batsman Phillip Hughes lost his life in November last year. Clarke , who considered Hughes as his younger brother , has since worn a black armband and dedicated the World Cup win to the Macksville-born player . " It 's ( arm band ) got PH on it , I 'll wear it every time I play for Australia. ( It 's ) Been a really tough few months and everyone would say we played this World Cup with 16 players. Tonight is dedicated to our little brother . " Hughesy used to party as well as any of them. We 're really proud , it 's a wonderful achievement , to win in our own backyard in front of family and friends , " said an emotional Clarke . Clarke led his country in 74 ODIs , of which Australia won 50. In 108 Tests he played so far , Clarke has scored 8432 runs at an average of 50.79 with 28 hundreds and 27 half centuries . Clarke has been ravaged by injuries in recent months and he underwent surgery after playing in the first Test of the four-match series against India in Adelaide in December last . Even his participation in the World Cup was in doubt but the selectors gave him time to be fit by the second group match against Bangladesh. Eventually , he regained full fitness and led the side admirably well though he was not in the best of form with the bat . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
