ALSO READ : Go , show your controlled aggression , says Tendulkar Michael Clarke does n't agree with the assessment though. When asked if his presence in this Aussie team had come at the cost of a player who 'd fit better in the scheme of things , Clarke responded with a curt 'no'. " People are free to have their opinions. I fit in the eleven and have also justified my captaincy , " he says . ALSO READ : Quran-reading at Shami 's house for 'playing XI' George Bailey , for one , is out because Clarke 's in and the skipper has just 135 runs to show from four World Cup innings so far , one of which was against minnows Scotland . But Clarke is n't worried. He 's already thinking about Thursday when the toughest assignment of his One-day career comes up against India. A defeat , he knows , will draw immediately the curtain on his ODI captaincy . " We 're about to find out , " said Clarke when asked about how he and his team would deal with the pressure . Clarke referred to Australia handling pressure well throughout the tournament , including the last one against Pakistan in the quarterfinal , saying he found it extremely pleasing . " We have some older players who have the experience of playing in World Cups , who have the experience of winning World Cups , and we have some younger players with unbelievable talent. No fear at all , " he said . The skipper insisted that the pressure Australia were feeling going into the heady contest was n't because they 're running into a well-oiled Indian machine . On the contrary , Clarke said , expectation was there " because Australia is the number one ranked team in the world and because we have performed " . " There 's been a lot of talk about pressure and expectations but that comes with the role. I think the boys will be fine , " he says . Clarke 's secret to doing better than the Indian team is to end up scoring one more run than India does. He would be aware of the rewards and retributions in store . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
