Known to be slow starters , the Knight Riders can ill afford to do that in this continental tournament. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 HYDERABAD : A clash between the two most successful Indian Premier League ( IPL ) teams - Kolkata Knight Riders and Chennai Super Kings - in the opener of the Champions League T20 at the RGIC Stadium on Wednesday night is the best advertisement organizers could have hoped for . With the CLT20 lagging far behind the home-bred IPL in the popularity stakes , a clash between these heavyweights could not only perk up spectator interest but also set the tone for the event . By winning the IPL twice in the last three years , Kolkata Knight Riders have silenced many detractors. Known to be slow starters , the Knight Riders can ill afford to do that in this continental tournament . " We have to be off the blocks from the start. We can not afford to wait. It 's important that we are on top of our game from the opening match itself , " skipper Gambhir said . The Knight Riders begin with a handicap. The absence of South African Morne Morkel and Bangladesh 's Shakib Al Hasan is a big blow. KKR have featured in the CLT20 twice , but without much success. Gambhir feels the side is motivated enough to set the record straight . " We will miss them as they are quality players. But we have the team to win and hence we are motivated enough. " It wo n't be that easy for the champions as they are up against a side which is eager to get back to winning ways. The Super Kings have an unenviable record in the IPL , having made it to the last four in all the seven editions of the tournament. The two-time champions have also played in the CLT20 every season expect the inaugural one . The availability of West Indies all-rounder Dwayne Bravo tilts the scales in their favour. Skipper Dhoni had admitted that the Super Kings had sorely missed the services of Bravo in the IPL . " It 's good Bravo is back in the side. His presence gives us stability and balance , " Dhoni had said earlier . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
