CLT20 : Depleted Kolkata Knight Riders face resurgent Chennai Super Kings The author has posted comments on this article Vedam Jaishankar , TNN | Oct 4 , 2014 , 11.04AM IST Both teams are extremely adept in the T20 format. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BANGALORE : The last time Chennai Super Kings turned out at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium , there was a lot of apprehension about their chances of squeezing into the semifinal . But skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni , a proficient hand at pulling rabbits out of the hat did just that to outsmart all opponents en route to the final . CSK 's supporters -- thousands have already descended on Bangalore -- believe the force is with him . If it is , the Kolkata Knight Riders will feel the full blast in the final of the CLT20 on Saturday . KKR are already reeling from the unexpected loss of their high impact bowler Sunil Narine. Reported by the umpires for chucking in two successive matches , the West Indian spinner will not be permitted to bowl again in this tournament . He was KKR 's trump card for the last couple of years as batsmen on the lookout for quick runs , were harried by variations camouflaged by a dubious action . By reporting him and other transgressors for flawed bowling action , the umpires have rightly demonstrated that they will not be swayed by prodigious turn , innovative variations or express speed . Luckily for KKR , there are two reasons why they can still breathe easy and compete with CSK on an even footing. Firstly , the Chinnaswamy Stadium pitch on which the final will be played , will not really be conducive to spinners and KKR could get better dividends by including Aussie pacer Pat Cummins instead . Also , KKR 's new find , Kuldeep Yadav , who bowls left-arm chinaman and googlies is a pretty handy bowler and could cushion the blow felt by the absence of Narine . KKR might also opt to field just two Indian spinners and instead go in with an extra medium-pacer in R Vinay Kumar or Umesh Yadav to complement the efforts of Andre Russell , Jacques Kallis and Cummins on a pitch expected to have good carry . Their batting , with Robin Uthappa and Manish Pandey getting amongst the runs is in fine shape and if Yusuf Pathan , skipper Gautam Gambhir , Suryakumar Yadav and Jacques Kallis can chip in usefully , KKR will be able to match CSK man for man and blow for blow . CSK , though , is a team that knows how to win matches. Dhoni , besides being street smart has led by intuition which , more often than not , has worked well for him. They also have a number of match winners , particularly batsmen. The bowling suffers in comparison , but is still not to be scoffed at . Their fielding , where Suresh Raina , Dwayne Bravo , Brendon McCullum and Ravindra Jadeja have dazzled , has made the bowling appear more potent than it appears . Usually , finals do not live up to the billing. But this game , where two evenly matched teams slug it out on a ground and pitch tailor-made for T20 cricket , could well be a run-feast . The fact that the finalists are both Indian teams who are extremely adept in the T20 format , also proves that they , rather than teams from other countries , have unravelled the intricacies of playing this format in this part of the world . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
