CLT20 : Mumbai Indians ca n't cross qualifiers hurdle The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Sep 17 , 2014 , 11.19AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 RAIPUR : Defending champions Mumbai Indians ' run in the CLT20 came to an end at the qualifying stage itself after their batting came unstuck for the second time in three matches . In a must-win situation and against the quality bowling attack of the Northern Knights , the top-order floundered again after being put in to bat . Their total attained a semblance of respectability thanks to Lasith Manliga and Shreyas Gopal , who pulled off a couple of late cameos to help MI reach 132/8 . It was not a target that would daunt an experienced team like Northern Knights . With heavy dew playing its part , the Mumbai bowling too was ineffective as the Knights cantered to a six-wicket victory . Mumbai 's defeat paved the way for Lahore Lions to enter the tournament proper , the first team from Pakistan to do so . Knights , the most impressive of the four teams in the qualifiers , enter Group B with an all-win record and will stay put in Raipur for two main matches before going to Mohali and then to Bangalore to complete their sojourn . Now there are only three IPL teams - CSK , KKR and KXIP - in the tournament. How much that is going to affect the tournament in terms of eyeballs , only time will tell . It was not a day Mumbai Indians would want to remember. The first thing that went against them was the toss. It meant their spinners were ineffective as gripping the ball was a problem with all the dew on the outfield . The Mumbai batsmen were required to compensate by posting a much bigger total. They also required early breakthroughs . The Mumbai Indians ' opening pair of Mike Hussey and Lendl Simmons were the key. But Hussey , in a rush of blood , charged Tim Southee to give mid-on a tame catch. By the halfway stage , Mumbai had lost five wickets for just 46 runs . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
