CLT20 : Mumbai Indians face Lahore Lions in tough qualifier The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Sep 13 , 2014 , 09.23AM IST The late call by Mumbai Indians to name Kieron Pollard to replace the injured Rohit Sharma seems a desperate move. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 RAIPUR : Mumbai Indians face a Herculean task as no team in the CLT20 has come through the qualifiers and gone on to win the championship . Besides , it would be a stern test for the defending champions as they are without their regular captain and a replacement was named barely a couple of days before they run into tricky opponents Lahore Lions in their first qualifying match on Saturday night . The late call taken by the Mumbai Indians to name the West Indies all-rounder Kieron Pollard to replace the injured Rohit Sharma would seem a desperate move. But coach John Wright brushed aside any problem with that , saying that the team always plays as a unit . " So , handing over the reins to Pollard at such a late stage will not be an issue. " Wright is more worried about the loss of Rohit , the batsmen. " We all know he is a class player and was in form in the only ODI he played in England before breaking his finger. But we have many talented players in the line-up. Besides , it will give another domestic player an opportunity to hog the limelight in his absence , " Wright said . With both Pollard and Lasith Malinga opting to play for MI , after leading their respective domestic teams , Barbados Tridents and Southern Express , there is little doubt that they are the favorites to bag one of the two slots in the main round . Lahore Lions skipper Mohammed Hafeez is not overawed by the might of MI and says that the boys are determined to see a team from Pakistan finally make it to the main round. Sialkot Stallions in 2012 and Faisalabad Wolves last season had failed in their mission . " We are a balanced side with six international players and the other boys too can be match-winners on their day. We have to ensure that we play consistently well in order to qualify for the main round " , Hafeez said on the eve of the match . Over the next four days , four teams i.e. Mumbai Indians , Lahore Lions , Northern Knights ( New Zealand champions ) and Southern Express ( Sri Lanka champions ) , will play each other once with the top two making it to the main round . If Mumbai Indians make the grade , they will join Kings XI Punjab in Group B of the main draw. Group A has two more IPL teams , Kolkata Knight Riders and Chennai Super Kings . The first match on Saturday will see Northern Knights take on Southern Express , who have suffered a double blow as their skipper Malinga decided to turn out for MI and then lethal opener Tillakaratne Dilshan pulled out at the last minute due to personal reasons . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
