CLT20 : Raina ends CSK 's trophy drought with a ton The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Oct 4 , 2014 , 10.39PM IST As it has been for Suresh Raina in a yellow jersey , where he has rarely failed , the UP left-hander gave a perfect exhibition of how to play on a track that offers turn. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BANGALORE : Suresh Raina hit a blistering century pulverising Kolkata Knight Riders into submission as Chennai Super Kings exacted a sweet revenge clinching the Oppo Champions League T20 in style with a eight-wicket victory in a thoroughly one-sided final . Chasing a competitive total of 181 , Raina smashed the daylights out of a depleted KKR attack without Sunil Narine , scoring a breathtaking 109 off 62 balls with the help of six fours and eight sixes. His century came off only 59 balls . Fitting enough , skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni finished the match with a flourish as he hit successive sixes off Yusuf Pathan as CSK won with nine balls to spare . This CSK 's first trophy in three years having last won the IPL and CLT20 in South Africa , back in 2011. CSK lost IPL final to KKR in 2012 and also lost twice in IPL this year . Raina , one of the finest players of the shorter format made a mincemeat of a KKR attack that looked psychologically down with mystery spinner Narine already on his flight back to Port of Spain. Raina is now the only player to score a century in T20 Internationals , IPL and CLT20 tournaments . As it has been for Raina in a yellow jersey , where he has rarely failed , the UP left-hander gave a perfect exhibition of how to play on a track that offers turn . Raina 's footwork against spinners was out of the coaching manual as he came to the pitch of the deliveries and effortlessly lifted the spinners like Piyush Chawla ( 0/38 in 3 overs ) and Kuldeep Yadav ( 0/44 in 4 overs ) into the second tier of the Chinnaswamy stadium . In fact , Raina spoilt the party for young chinaman bowler Kuldeep , who today got a maiden call-up into Indian ODI side . Thrice , Kuldeep was lofted into the stands as Raina danced down the track and negated the turn , teaching the teenager a lesson about playing top-flight cricket . He added 118 runs in only 12.2 overs with Brendon McCullum , who scored 39 off 30 balls and 58 off 5.2 overs with Dhoni. Needless to say , Raina was the dominant partner in both the stands . Earlier , unheralded left-arm spinner Pawan Negi 's bowled brilliantly for his maiden five-for as Chennai Super Kings restricted Kolkata Knight Riders to 180 for six even as skipper Gautam Gambhir smashed a 52-ball-80 . The diminutive 21-year-old Delhi boy , who is not even a regular in his state squad having played only two first-class games in three years , grabbed five for 22 in four overs as he put spanner in KKR 's plans of getting a 200-plus score . Being put into bat , KKR skipper Gambhir led from the front as he added 91 for the opening stand with Robin Uthappa ( 39 ) . Gambhir 's innings had seven fours and three sixes . Towards the end , it was young Manish Pandey , who played a cameo scoring 32 off only 19 balls and Yusuf Pathan ( 20 off 9 balls ) , who hit a few lusty blows to take IPL champions to the 180-run mark . With Chinnaswamy strip offering significant turn and bounce , Negi did trouble the batsmen as he got the wickets of Uthappa and Jacques Kallis in his first spell and then got rid of Pandey , Ryan ten Doeschate ( 0 ) and Kuldeep Yadav ( 0 ) in a space of five deliveries in the penultimate over . However credit should be given to CSK bowlers as they made a good comeback having gone for 89 runs in the first 10 wicketless overs. In the back-10 , they conceded only 91 runs taking six wickets in the process . The KKR openers broke free in the second over where bith Gambhir and Uthappa got boundaries off Mohit Sharma as 13 runs came in that over . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
