Coach Duncan Fletcher gets ready to check out The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Jan 6 , 2015 , 10.57AM IST Duncan Fletcher has n't been totally out of character in his public dealings while in India. In England , too , he was known to be laconic with the media. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : " Silence is golden when you ca n't think of a good answer , " Muhammad Ali once said. One wonders what Duncan Fletcher , all of 66 , has to say about that . Sydney will in all probability mark his last Test as India coach. He will go as he arrived , in silence. If cricket-crazy India does n't remember him , it 's unlikely Fletcher will care. If he does , we will never know . A day before the Sydney Test , Fletcher stood impassively as the team members played football in the morning. He shifted uneasily once in a while , maybe impatient to get them to the nets. That is the way it has always been . Throughout this series , Fletcher has been a constant feature at nets , but it is seldom that he has interfered in the proceedings. Like Father Time , he has watched. Once in a while , he will have a quiet chat with a player , mostly a youngster , away from prying eyes . Fletcher has withstood scathing attacks on his reputation , a sharp dip in India 's Test fortunes and the arrival of a team director in Ravi Shastri . After the World Cup , he will get to go out on his own terms. He must have done some good. It 's unlikely we 'll know . Indian cricket often works in mysterious ways but it took a foreigner to teach them the fine art of self-censorship. Silence can guard against personal attack. It can also stonewall praise when it is due . Only those in the team and the immediate vicinity will know how useful Fletcher was in MS Dhoni 's set up . Fletcher has n't been totally out of character in his public dealings while in India. In England , too , he was known to be laconic with the media . If he has been different , it has been in his methods. He came across as too hands-off , never watching domestic games , never pushing for youth like he did his previous stint. Maybe his hands were tied . We would n't know . What is clear is that India 's Test for tunes , especially away from home , took a sharp dip under Fletcher. The team won only two Tests out of 23 away. He oversaw a difficult era of transition , and maybe was powerless to stem the tide . What emerges from talking with players is that Fletcher is very good with the technical side of things , especially with youngsters. Why then , was n't he hired as just a batting coach ? Virat Kohli was asked on Tuesday what he thought of Fletcher 's stint . Like other players before him , he praised Fletcher 's inputs without specifying . " He has done a very good job with the young players in the team. The players who played in the past , the senior players , would n't require as much help but with youngsters he has been really good with the technical part of the game. I have personally enjoyed playing under him as coach. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
