Come World Cup , left is the right spin mantra The author has posted comments on this article Vedam Jaishankar , TNN | Jan 16 , 2015 , 12.19PM IST Australia have preferred Xavier Doherty over Nathan Lyon for the World Cup. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 The Australian preference for Xavier Doherty over Nathan Lyon in their World Cup squad is a reflection of the thought process that has evolved ever since the rules governing 50-overs ODI cricket were changed in 2012 . Like Australia , India too have opted to place their spin bowling faith in left-arm bowlers Axar Patel , young and inexperienced , and Ravindra Jadeja , experienced but woefully short of match practice owing to an injury. Off-spinner R Ashwin too is around , evidently as a cover against teams with more than a fair share of left-hand batsmen . Significantly , co-hosts New Zealand have turned back the clock and gone for RCB coach and ageing war horse Daniel Vettori , while another veteran , Ranganna Herath , carries Sri Lanka 's spin bowling hopes on his left shoulder . In 2011 , when India won the World Cup on home soil , the rules governing field restrictions were different : a total of five fielders were allowed outside the inner circle . But the following year , ICC changed the rules of ODI cricket whereby not more than four fielders are permitted in the outfield at any stage of the innings . The objective was to promote more scoring opportunities and make the game more thrilling for spectators. But in the process , spinners , already at their wits end to contain batsmen in this form of the game , have been dealt a further blow to the extent that the days of a conventional leg spinner is all but over in ODIs . Former Test off-spinner EAS Prasanna , ever aggressive in outlook , believes that the trick is in giving the ball a real rip . " The width of the bat is a mere 4.25 inches. Spinners who really turn the ball from a length will ensure that the batsman does not always connect with the meat of the bat and hence their chance of inducing a mishit would be far higher. " Meanwhile , Karnataka bowling coach Mansoor Ali Khan , a smart thinker who optimized his skills to play alongside more accomplished pacemen Javagal Srinath , Venkatesh Prasad , Dodda Ganesh and David Johnson , revealed that left-arm spinners were relatively more difficult to hit than off-spinners and leg-spinners . " We re-confirmed this in the Vijay Hazare and Deodhar Trophy where under the new rules , even Harbhajan Singh was struggling to complete his quota of overs. On the other hand , a part-time bowler like Yuvraj Singh was more successful. We too blooded a very young left-arm spinner ( J Suchith ) for the same reason and met with success. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
