Cornered Srinivasan apologizes to SC ; gets to vote on March 2 The author has posted comments on this article Dhananjay Mahapatra , TNN | Feb 28 , 2015 , 10.11AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Faced with the prospect of contempt of court for presiding over a BCCI meeting on February 8 , N Srinivasan on Friday tendered an unconditional apology to the Supreme Court which had disqualified him from contesting board elections for having conflict of interest . Though the court barred Srinivasan from participating in or presiding over the March 2 annual general meeting that would see election of new office-bearers , it accepted his apology and allowed him to cast his vote on behalf of Tamil Nadu Cricket Association ( TNCA ) . The court on January 22 had disqualified Srinivasan from seeking re-election as BCCI president finding him wearing two hats - one as cricket administrator and the other as owner of IPL team Chennai Super Kings. The court had struck down as illegal an amendment to the BCCI rules that lifted the prohibition on a cricket administrator from owning an IPL team . Cricket Association of Bihar counsel Nalini Chidambaram pointed out to the court that in the face of the disqualification incurred through the court judgment , Srinivasan could not have participated or presided over the BCCI 's working committee meeting . When a bench of Justices T S Thakur and F M I Kalifulla agreed with Chidambaram 's argument , Srinivasan 's counsel Kapil Sibal tendered an apology on behalf of his client and assured the court that he would abide by the judgment in letter and spirit . Sibal also informed the court that Srinivasan had erased the conflict of interest stigma by divesting his ownership of Chennai Super Kings. " Srinivasan will go and only vote. He will not participate in the deliberations at the AGM , " Sibal said . Though Chidambaram attempted to argue that he was not entitled to vote , the court said it saw no harm in allowing Srinivasan to cast his vote on behalf of TNCA . Meanwhile , sources told TOI that the Supreme Court appointed three-judge committee comprising former apex court judges Justices R M Lodha , R V Raveendran and Ashok Bhan had issued notices to Srinivasan 's son-in-law Gurunath Meiyappan , CSK owner India Cements and Rajasthan Royals owner Raj Kundra . The committee was mandated by the court to determine the quantum of punishment for Meiyappan , Kundra and owners of CSK and RR after the court-appointed inquiry panel headed by Justice Mukul Mudgal found Meiyappan and Kundra guilty of betting during IPL 2013. The SC had asked the three-judge committee to decide the quantum of punishment within six months . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
