Couple among four arrested for running WC betting racket The author has posted comments on this article Anuraag Singh , TNN | Feb 15 , 2015 , 06.45PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 INDORE : An alleged cricket betting racket which began operating from a multi-storeyed residential building in city 's Kanadiya area on Sunday only , was busted by city police crime branch on its inaugural day. The racket reportedly had put on stake around Rs one crore on the outcome of the two World Cup matches played on Sunday . A joint team of crime branch and Kanadiya police swooped at Flat No 502 located on the fifth floor of multi-storeyed Shekhar Enclave building in Sanchar Nagar locality , just when the four operators of the racket , including a woman were involved in the unholy practice of cricket betting , for their clients spread in Indore and neighbourhood . " The DIG Indore Rakesh Gupta has tasked the crime branch to raid the flat following a specific tip off about a cricket betting racket , operating to rake in the moolah from the India vs Pakistan and West Indies vs South Africa ICC World Cup matches , " additional SP-Crime Dilip Soni told TOI . The crime branch team led by sub-inspector Abhishek Choube and assistant sub inspector Om Prakash Tiwari arrested the foursome , including kingpin Sanjay Jain , 50 , his aides Tirthesh Jain , 28 , his wife Nidhi Jain , 26 and 40-year-old Chandrashekhar Gangwal. The arrested foursome has been booked under provisions of Gambling Act and Information and Technology Act and they are being grilled for knowing the magnitude of the betting racket 's network , whose operations at the flat taken in the name of Nidhi Jain started on Sunday only , Kanadiya police station in-charge Sanjay Chaturvedi said . According to crime branch sources , religious rituals seemed to have been performed before starting the cricket betting racket at the fifth floor flat on Sunday. Primary investigations suggest that the racket which started with India-Pak World Cup match could be one of the many cricket betting rackets being operated by the arrested kingpin Sanjay Jain . Jain is a listed cricket bookie of Indore , who is accused in several cases of betting related activities at Indore in the past also . Early investigations into the seized paper chits suggest that a sum of around Rs one crore was at stake for various clients of the new racket on the two World Cup matches played on Sunday . Besides the betting transaction slips , the cops also seized Rs 29,000 cash , 39 cell-phones , two laptops , a LCD and a tablet from the flat . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
