Courtney Walsh open to coaching Indian fast bowlers The author has posted comments on this article Sunil Subbaiah , TNN | May 13 , 2014 , 09.34PM IST Legendary West Indian paceman Courtney Walsh said that he was pleased with the presence of West Indians in the IPL. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BANGALORE : Legendary West Indian paceman Courtney Walsh , who is in the city for the South Zone trials of the Vijaya Karnataka Superpacer Hunt , a BCCL initiative to unearth the fastest bowler in the country , said he was open to idea of coaching India 's fast bowlers . " If given an opportunity I want to coach the Indian fast bowlers in the national team as I love the game and the fast bowlers , " Walsh told TOI on Tuesday . " I am here to instil in them ( Superpacer ) the importance of being strong and how to prepare to sustain for a longer period , " said Walsh , who prolonged his career more than any other pacer in the history of the sport . " There are many fast bowlers in the world who get injured frequently but we must ensure that we are doing things correctly. The modern day fast bowling is a tough business - trying to keep your body fit for so much cricket , " said Walsh , who has an enviable record of 519 wickets from 132 Tests and 227 ODI scalps in a career spanning over 17 years . " There is Test cricket , T20s , ODIs and first-class cricket. Bowlers are not able to keep up the pace. In India , it 's a little hard for the fast bowlers , " said the towering Jamaican , who enjoyed the Indian conditions , claiming 43 wickets in seven Tests . Walsh said that he was pleased with the presence of West Indians in the Indian Premier League. " It 's good to see a number of West Indians in the IPL. They have been playing reasonably well and it is a good exposure for the guys. It 's a great platform to demonstrate your skills , " Walsh said . The West Indian expressed his disappointment with the absence of Indians in the Caribbean Premier League. " It would be nice have Indian presence at the CPL. I 'm sure the Indian cricket board has its own reasons not to send them but from a cricketing point of view we would love to see them in the CPL. The IPL players have tremendous talent and it would be great if they play the CPL , " he said . When asked about Darren Sammy 's decision to retire from Test cricket , Walsh refused to comment. " All I would say is that Sammy gave everything he had and I wish him all the best in retirement. The good thing is that he will continue to play the shorter format and I think he will be successful. I want to wish Denesh Ramdin all the best in his role as the new Test captain of West Indies , " he said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
