Cricket administration has to be pristine pure : SC The author has posted comments on this article Dhananjay Mahapatra , TNN | Nov 25 , 2014 , 11.23AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Hibernating BCCI president N Srinivasan 's quest to seek re-election as the cricket board chief sparked an avalanche of questions on Monday from the Supreme Court , ranging from possible " conflict of interest " as he owned an IPL team to indictment of his son-in-law Gurunath Meiyappan for betting . Srinivasan 's counsel Kapil Sibal said his client had voluntarily stepped aside from BCCI affairs during pendency of investigations into allegations against him and 12 other persons. " Since the panel has given its final report and found nothing against me , my election should be separated from the ongoing proceedings. The conflict of interest is not an issue for adjudication before the court , " Sibal told a bench of Justices TS Thakur and FMI Kalifulla . The bench said , " Your candidature is going to be an issue. You may not have been found guilty in match-fixing or betting. But when your team ( Chennai Super Kings ) is participating in the IPL , will it be proper for you to head the BCCI ? And what about people close to you ( Meiyappan ) indicted by the panel for betting ? " The bench added , " Do n't go purely by the findings of the Mudgal committee. Your involvement in an IPL team and an official of the team involved in betting will affect your stature as BCCI president. " It told the parties that it would like to hear them and arrive at a decision as to what consequences must visit those found guilty by the Mudgal committee as also on the issues that were corollary to the report on betting and match-fixing . Sibal said the BCCI rules permitted the president to own a team in IPL. The bench asked , " Who constituted the IPL committee and its rules ? Is it with you as BCCI president or not ? IPL is a product of the BCCI. In the process , the person who is part of BCCI is allowed to float teams and it became a mutual benefit society. " It added , " Millions in the country are still passionate about the game. So , the administration and the process has to be pristine pure. Otherwise , you will be killing the game. The game gets its recognition from millions of little men on the street watching the game. But if that little man 's faith is shattered , will the game survive ? You will be presiding over the liquidation of the game. We must give benefit of doubt to the game but not to individuals. " After the string of questions , BCCI counsel C A Sundaram said the board would take the Mudgal committee report " as gospel truth and act on that basis " . A little before this , he had said the BCCI would constitute a high-level committee to treat the report as a complaint and take action in accordance with law . But the bench appeared not to attach much importance to this course of action. " Nobody is going to confess ( to their misdemeanour ) . Everyone will say the report is baseless. What is the action that needs to be taken ? On some aspects the report provides a sound basis , on others we will hear the parties , " the bench said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
