Cricket betting den raided in Koh-e-Fiza , 3 arrested The author has posted comments on this article Ankur Sirothia , TNN | Mar 11 , 2015 , 10.45AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 BHOPAL : A cricket betting den was busted in Koh-e-Fiza area on Monday and three people were arrested during a raid conducted by a joint team of Koh-e-Fiza police and cyber cell. The accused were betting on World Cup Cricket matches . Police said betting was on for Bangladesh and England match. It is the second betting racket busted in city in past three days . Abhishek Jain , Nasir Khan and Abdul Sohail were arrested from flat number 5 of the White House Apartment , said police. Over Rs 1.90 lakh cash , 32 mobile phones , a laptop , 2 recorders , 1 LCD , 2 calculators , 2 set top boxes and three remotes were seized from them . Police said Abhishek Jain , a resident of Awadhpuri on the periphery of BHEL Township , is kingpin of the gang. He introduced himself as a property broker and did not accept money directly after a bet was placed. He rather would ask people to leave the cash with his wife at home or to any of his women family members. He told his family that he money handed over to them was his commission for property broking . He took on rent a fully furnished flat in Koh-e-Fiza few months ago to run the betting racket. He used to keep changing his address in a year to avoid any suspicion. From Koh-e-Fiza he had plans to shift to Arera Colony and had also finalized a property there agreement of which has been recovered from him , police said . As a common practise , rented accommodations are used for running betting rackets in city. A betting racket busted in New Minal Residency last week was also operated from a rented house. The house was rented days before the ICC Cricket World Cup started . Two persons- Dinesh Saini and Chetan were nabbed from New Minal Residency house on March 6 during India 's match with West Indies. Around Rs 40,000 cash and 15 mobile phones were seized from them , besides satta slips . BETTING WITHOUT FEAR Come any major cricket tournament , including IPL season and at least a dozen betting rackets in Bhopal get busted in the city. Betting dens operate more from posh city localities be it in new or Old City area. Most of those caught are local traders and youths working in private sector with interest in cricket and wanting to make quick money. In the absence of stringent laws , accused in most cases get bail from police station . HOW NETWORK OPERATES ? Those running betting racket in the city get a SIM card from the bigger operator. This SIM has only incoming facility and non-stop one-way communication takes place wherein betting rates and related updates run like a commentary during a match. Local operators keep a number of other phones to stay connected with ones willing to bet through WhatsApp groups. Bigger operators may likely be operating from major cities of country or even aboard. However , most times they could not be identified as cops close investigation after nabbing small-time operators . WHATSAPP , BETTING APPS Network of bookies in Bhopal goes to Mumbai through Indore and Nagpur. Officials pointed that bookies have dedicated software and mobile apps to place bets and keep complete records. Besides , they are active on WhatsApp and have formed groups to update rates and get live feedbacks . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
