Cricket betting racket busted in Indore The author has posted comments on this article Anuraag Singh , TNN | Jan 16 , 2015 , 05.02PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 INDORE : While Australia and England cricketers battled for a winning start in the triangular series at the Sydney Cricket Ground ( SCG ) on Friday , thousands of km away in Madhya Pradesh 's commercial capital Indore , the police busted a thriving cricket betting racket which had pooled Rs 2 crore-plus on the tri-series opener . A Lasudiya police team led by inspector in-charge PS Ranawat swooped on the cricket betting racket operating at a duplex house in posh Mahalaxmi Nagar Colony in Eastern Indore in the afternoon. The cops arrested six men from the spot , who were employed by the alleged racket kingpin Ajay Goel . The six men aged between 23 and 33 years , admitted to the police about operating the racket from the rented duplex House No. 130-MR3 since the last few months on behalf of the racket kingpin and Indore resident Ajay Goel . Several paper chits recovered from the spot revealed that over Rs 2 crore had been pooled from all over the state and outside to make quick bucks by betting on Australia-England match , Lasudiya police station in-charge PS Ranawat told TOI . The six arrested men were identified as Mangi Lal , Danny Kushwah , Kailash Solanki , Pawan Mukati ( all residents of Barwani ) , Rajesh Garg , a resident of Rau-Indore and Rahul Singh , a resident of Indore 's Vijay Nagar locality . Three of the arrested were school dropouts , while Rahul had dropped out of BBA course and Rajesh was a B.Com pass out . All these jobless youths were working for the racket kingpin and getting monthly remuneration spanning between Rs 8,000 and Rs 15,000 . Money was being pooled by punters via the 21-line virtual telephone exchange on various counts spanning from who wins the match , per innings score , death over runs and best bat and best bowler . The police team comprising head constables , Chandrashekhar Patel , Atul Sharma and constables Santosh Choti , Mukesh Yadav and Jaideep swooped into the duplex , just when the racket operators were transacting over phone from clients based in 21 cities in MP and outside . " They were using 39 cell-phones to link with cricket punters based in 21 cities , particularly the entire Malwa-Nimar region. The match was being seen by the operators live on two LED sets installed in two rooms on the first floor of the duplex , " Ranawat added . Besides , the two LEDs , the police also seized Rs 7,000 cash , 3 laptops , one switch-box , 30 cell-phones , two modems , a keyboard and a voice recorder . The arrested men revealed that the racket kingpin was targeting Rs 5 lakh to Rs 10 lakh daily profit from the triangular series matches in the Down Under ahead of the ICC World Cup , which too was likely to render them a daily profit of Rs 15 lakh to Rs 20 lakh . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
