Cricket can teach a thing or two about life The author has posted comments on this article Saima Afreen , TNN | Feb 2 , 2015 , 03.03PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 After scripting a movie where the plot revolved around cricket , former player Harimohan Paruvu is now bringing lessons learnt on the cricketing fields to life. The former cricketer talks about decisions , discipline , complexity of the game and how it is important to bounce back . I look at my life like a book shop clerk As I grow older , I understand the game of cricket in a better way . Now , I am like a clerk in a book shop who sees people walk in , browse and make choices. These choices define their lives. Some people are happy with the choices they have made then there are others who are unhappy and crib about their decisions. Some feel victimised and have a sense of ` why me ? '. I look at people and feel that whatever happens , is for their own good. I keep a note of all this as a spectator and use it for my writing . Lessons of cricket have become my principles While I played cricket , I learnt a lot about patience , discipline and dealing with failure. All these have become very important to me while dealing with life. Like the ball in the game , you have to bounce back in life no matter how badly you are hit. Cricket teaches you self-belief. If you believe in yourself you can achieve many goals. In one of the matches in university I told my captain I am going to get more than 100 runs and I did it. You can influence the results with strong positive thought process . I love to roam about in Hyderabad Other than serious writing , I love to roam on the streets of Hyderabad and observe keenly .I come back and blog about maybe a beggar or a cat unsheathing its claws. I blog on random stuff , whatever I see and perceive . I played small role of a teacher in Golconda high school The movie was based on one of my books The Men Within. I appear in the movie for the small role of a cricket teacher playing against the kids. I enjoyed it . World Cup cricket can teach a lot to people if they watch carefully Cricket brings the people of our country together. Everybody digs into some sports literature. And when they sit glued before their TV screens , they can learn a lot about time , defeats , strength and more . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
