Cricketers and their stroke-of-luck quirks on field The author has posted comments on this article Pratyush Patra , TNN | Mar 2 , 2015 , 02.01PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Has it ever happened that you 've left your seat while watching a cricket match at home to take nature 's call and a wicket fell and your annoyed friends tagged you 'manhoos ' for the Indian team ? Fans do crazy things , like sitting in a particular corner of the sofa when say Kohli is batting , to avoid bad luck. But it 's not just the fans , cricketers too who have their superstitions. At times , match practice is not enough - they need that stroke of luck as well . Hanky Panky Throughout his career , veteran cricketer Mohinder Amarnath made sure that he had his lucky red handkerchief in his pocket when he was on the field. In the 1983 World Cup , he took the final wicket which got India the trophy. Steve Waugh , one of Australia 's best captains , always carried a red handkerchief in his pocket , said to be given to him by his grandmother. Virendra Sehwag was also known to carry a red handkerchief. For pacer Zaheer Khan , it 's a yellow handkerchief and not a red one that he considers his lucky charm . Kiss ka kissa We reckon , Sri Lankan players are quite inspired by Rhett Butler 's line from Gone With The Wind - 'You should be kissed and often ' - and bats and balls are their Scarlett O'Haras. Mahela Jayawardene , the destructive batsman , kisses his bat before batting and his teammate Lasith Malinga kisses the ball before every delivery . Putting your best foot , pad and gloves forward Even God needed superstition. Sachin Tendulkar always wore his left pad first while going out to bat. He also did a totka making sure that Anil Kumble gets his ten-wicket haul in the second test of India-Pakistan test series in 1999. During that match against Pakistan , Kumble scalped a wicket each time Sachin handed over his cap and sweater to the umpire when he went to bowl. Lethal pacer Dale Steyn believes in stepping onto the field with his left foot first and his eyes to the sky. R Ashwin carried a bag which he believed was lucky for the entire Indian team in the 2011 World Cup. Even though he only played two games , he carried it for all the matches which India eventually won. Australian captain Michael Clarke listens to loud music before going out to bat. Virat Kohli is one cricketer who believed in a particular superstition , but gave that up later. He used to wear the same pair of gloves with which he 'd been scoring. Now , he is said to have given up on his lucky pair of gloves and picks ones which are comfortable . Some Number Crunching His favourite number may be 16 ( crore ) now , but Yuvraj Singh always wears a jersey with the number 12 on it , since he was born on December 12. MS Dhoni , who clipped his hair after winning the T20 World Cup in 2007 and shaved his head after India lifted the 2011 World Cup , sports the number seven on his jersey as his birthday is on July 7. Apparently , after consulting a numerologist , Sehwag had decided to wear a numberless shirt. Did it change his fortune ? Not likely. These days , Pakistani batsman Umar Akmal is sporting a number 3 jersey and not his regular number 96 . Akmal is said to have been suggested by a pir baba to do so in order to get his form back . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
