The author has posted comments on this article Jyothi Prabhakar , TNN | Feb 22 , 2015 , 03.40PM IST On Virat Kohli 's left biceps , there 's a tattoo of a Japanese Samurai warrior , sword raised , which soon became the in-demand tattoo in India. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 Dragons , warriors , scriptures , dates , names... they flaunt it all. It adds to their bad boy quotient , and has millions of fans straining their eyes to catch a glimpse of what it is. We guess the trend of getting inked among the young Indian cricketers was started by Virat Kohli and moustache-twirling Shikhar Dhawan . Here are a few cricketers , who 've announced their arrival with cool tattoos.. . Shikhar Dhawan Both he and his half-Bengali wife are self-confessed tattoo addicts. " Mere paas chaar tattoos hain , " Gabbar , as he is called by his teammates , had said once. There 's a 'Carpe Diem ' on the back of his left biceps , a tribal design on his right shoulder and another one on his back. Also , there 's a bird on his left calf . Virat Kohli Stylish Kohli has four tattoos - he 's got his zodiac sign , Scorpio , on the upper right arm. On the same forearm , he has the Chinese symbol of faith. On his left biceps , there 's a tattoo of a Japanese Samurai warrior , sword raised , which soon became the in-demand tattoo in India. " At a subconscious level , I connect to this warrior and model myself on his discipline , skills and honour , " he 'd said. He also sports a tribal design . Ambati Rayudu Quite the bad boy of cricket , when he needed to shout out his arrival , he got a large tattoo of a pigeon on the left side of his neck - and he 's claimed it 's got nothing to do with his 'calmer ' and at 'peace ' avatar on the field . Umesh Yadav Team India 's pace spearhead has five tattoos on his left hand , all the way from his shoulder to arms. Across the shoulder is a tattoo of Lord Shiva , below which is the Maha Mrityunjaya Mantra. He also has a Virgin Mary - 'as a mark of respect and love for my mother , who passed away in 2011'. And , he 's got a 'blessed child ' on one arm , and on another , a symbol for luck . Ravindra Jadeja He who calls his Hayabussa bike Ma Bussa , is quite the stud off the field too. He 's got a pet horse , and loves his tattoo - his nickname , 'Jaddu ' , surrounded by flowers - which he got inked on his right forearm. He 's also got a dragon tattoo on his back , about which he tweeted some time ago . Inspired by his dude-sy teammates , the hardhitting Raina has also got a tattoo. But he 's kept it understated. On the inside of his right biceps , he 's got 'Believe ' inked in a flowy font . Stuart Binny His was the most popular entry into Team India , making him a trending topic for almost a week. And while he 's yet to make a mark in the game , his half-sleeve Maori tribal design tattoo has ensured he 's a marked man . International Tattooed Hotties Mitchell Johnson Only sexy does n't cover Australia 's Mitchell Johnson 's hot bod. This left-arm fast bowler , and a handy tailender batsman , has a panther on his abdomen , and a dragon on his right arm . New Zealand 's McCullum has a scroll containing the Roman numerals CXXVI XLII CCXXIV -a symbol of his place in the list of cricketers from his country . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
