Cricketers who may have played their last World Cup The author has posted comments on this article Soumitra Das , TNN | Mar 29 , 2015 , 08.23PM IST Page 1 of 4 The Aussie power With Michael Clarke announcing his retirement , Team Australia will have to regroup once he hangs up his boots. He has been an impact player for Australia taking his game a notch higher every time the team has needed him. And he surely will be missed sending the white ball all round the ground . No more Gayle Storms Given the high standards that he has set over the years , Chris Gayle did not have a great tournament. Still , the 35 year old , who was troubled by back pain throughout the tournament , scored the first ever WC double century against Zimbabwe and hit 26 sixes in the tournament. Gayle has always been a crowd favorite , thanks to his six-hitting habits and Gangnam style celebrations. He will be sorely missed ! Great guns With Misbah-ul-Haq and Shahid Afridi hanging their boots from ODIs , Pakistan will have big boots to fill. And for sure it is not going to be an easy task. With their careers spanning over a decade each , this sure seems like a big blow to Team Pakistan . Fantastic four Big players have big impact , and these Sri Lankan greats have shown it time and again. Be it the deadly Lasith Malinga , Mr. consistent Mahela Jayawardene , world record holder Kumar Sangakkara or the dashing opener Tillakaratne Dilshan , they have been the unshakable pillars to Team Sri Lanka. Their World Cup campaign might have ended early , but these fantastic four have been a great ambassadors to the game . Turning back the clock ! At 36 , Daniel Vettori can put teenagers to shame with his fitness and agility. In spite of New Zealand playing at small grounds back home , Vettori picked 15 wickets , giving away less than four runs per over ! He also took a stunning one-handed catch against the West Indies and scored important runs lower down the order ! Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
