Cricket 's our soul , mate : Indian-Aussie colleagues are frenemies today The author has posted comments on this article Pratyush Patra , TNN | Mar 26 , 2015 , 12.49PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Diplomacy might be their day job , but today , it 's only 'my team strongest ' for the officials at the Australian High Commission in Delhi as they get ready for the big semifinal . If the scenes at the Australian High Commission on Tuesday during the New Zealand vs South Africa match were anything to go by , it would n't be an exaggeration to say that a commotion is in the offing today. Working throughout the day on issues related to visas and diplomacy , the Australian and Indian officials at the office in Chanakyapuri , Delhi not only find the time to watch cricket , the game is also very much a part of their daily discourse , where they do n't miss any chance to take a dig at each other 's teams . On Tuesday , while the Australians rooted for neighbour and co-hosts New Zealand , their Indian colleagues backed the Proteas.And the pitch is set to go notches higher today , when they back their respective teams. Whatever the results may be , and the on-field rivalry apart , these officials say that cricket is something that unites the two countries and its people . INDIANS CAN GO OVERBOARD WITH THEIR LOVE Bruce Murphy , who works in the resource department , says , " Both countries love cricket. While Australians are restrained in expressing themselves , Indians go overboard. The houses of players are pelted with stones when they do n't perform or they are treated as Gods when they do well. Such things are unheard of in Australia. " Charles Samuel , his Indian colleague , who works in the administration department , adds , " It 's more of an Indian subcontinent thing. We ca n't help that we are cricket crazy . " INDIA VERSUS AUSTRALIA IS NOW BIGGER THAN INDO-PAK The officials also think that now , India vs Australia is bigger than India 's clash with Pakistan or the Ashes. Another official at the high commission , Shiv Sharma , says , " The Monkeygate incident changed a lot of things. We started looking forward to defeating the Aussies. " Stephen adds , " Now , I look forward to an India-Australia game more than that with England as India is the team to beat. " They credit the shift in focus to the dismal performance of Pakistan and England in recent tournaments.Bruce adds , " But we equally like to defeat South Africa. " IT WILL BE MITCHELL STARC VERSUS VIRAT KOHLI The Aussies feel that bowler Mitchell Starc will be the star of the day. Patrick Bryson , who has been working in India for three years , says , " He has emerged as one of the best bowlers in the tournament.One good spell for him can leave the Indian side staggering. " Bruce jokes that Steven Smith , who has scored 'some seven million runs ' , will also spoil India 's chances of reaching the finals. Stephen adds on to the joke , " I never saw Indians getting him out ! " Srikant Gautam , their Indian colleague , retorts , " We have saved that for the semi-final. " AUSTRALIA SHOULD NOT SLEDGE VIRAT The Australians are known for sledging , but they also know that this Indian side knows how to give it back.Stephen says , " More than the venom , it is the heat of the moment. " Bruce says that the spell by Pakistan 's Wahab Riaz against Australia exemplifies what controlled aggression can do. Patrick says , " We know which player to prick , and Virat Kohli is one such player who would perform better when angry , and so , we would not want to prick him , " and adds , " Once , Sachin said that it 's wonderful to play in Australia because the Aussie supporters come hard at you , but if you perform , they also know how to applaud. " IT WILL BE A CLIFFHANGER The officials feel that no matter what the outcome , cricket will be the winner as the match promises to go down the wire.Bruce 's quip gives an idea of how close everyone 's expecting the match to be " I reckon Australia should win by three runs. " Srikant says , " It 's a 45-55 chance with India being the favourite. " Ask them how often they discuss cricket , and the answer is , " Every coffee break. " Stephen says , " I avoid the topic when Australia loses. " From VVS Laxman 's 281 at Calcutta , the Shane-Sachin clash , to the 2003 World Cup finals , all are fondly discussed. And once the coffee break ends , everybody goes back to work . " Even an issue like racial discrimination , that keeps raising its ugly head time and again , has no impact on our office environment. It will be business as usual , no matter who wins , " says Srikant. As the discussions and leg-pulling continue , the 250-odd Indians at the Australian High Commission will have just one thing on their mind today they 'wo n't give it back ' no matter how bad their 50-odd Aussie colleagues would like to reclaim the trophy , for whom 2011 is 'just an aberration' . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
