Cricket World Cup : Innovation is the name of the game The author has posted comments on this article Vedam Jaishankar , TNN | Jan 23 , 2015 , 10.51AM IST Arjuna Ranatunga opened the batting with two pinch-hitters in 1996 World Cup - Sanath Jayasuriya and Romesh Kaluwitharana. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 Many teams have dared to unleash new tactics and ploys on the World Cup stage. As the 2015 edition dawns , TOI looks back at the ways the game has changed over the years.. . From coloured clothing with players ' names on their jerseys , two white balls , black sight screens , stump mikes , cricket under lights to a new rain rule , the 1992 edition in Australia-New Zealand could be identified as the moment the staid and laidback minders of the old game woke up to the charms of modern times . Till then , tradition was the buzzword among administrators and the mindset imposed by it constrained them from adapting to the demands of colour and satellite television and , consequently , plugging into the vast potential it offered in terms of revenue and popularity . But once they embraced change for that distant World Cup event Down Under , the cricketing world soared to unimaginable heights. Additionally , the innovative spirit of the administrators spread infectiously and percolated down the line to make the game richer . None were more inspired by this spirit of innovation than the New Zealand cricketers who , guided by the strategic brilliance of their skipper Martin Crowe , played far above themselves in that edition . Crowe shook up the cricketing world with his out-of-the-box tactics which included opening the bowling with off-spinner Dipak Patel. This completely threw rival opening batsmen off gear as they had trained for batting against an all-out pace attack spawned by the new two-ball ( one at each end ) rule. Now , asked to hit a spinner operating with a new ball over the in-field , they were decidedly underprepared . Crowe did this with the batting too when he asked " pinch-hitter " Mark Greatbatch to go after the opposition 's fast bowlers. And the southpaw did it splendidly by stepping out and startling even the likes of Curtly Ambrose and Malcolm Marshall . Pakistan might have won the Cup but the edition will always be remembered for New Zealand 's astounding innovations. It encouraged teams to also look for novel ways to overcome challenges . Sri Lanka absorbed these lessons and took it to the next level in the next edition. Their improvisations transformed them overnight from minnows to world champions as skipper Arjuna Ranatunga 's penchant to convert every adversity to his advantage paid off handsomely. He opened the batting with two pinch-hitters - Sanath Jayasuriya ( man of the tournament ) and Romesh Kaluwitharana. Both were languishing in the lower middle-order when Ranatunga made his bold move . Until then , most teams were happy with a score of 40 to 50 runs in the first 15 overs. But the Lankan pair soon changed all that by posting scores of 117 , 123 , 121 , 86 in the opening 15 overs. Unlike conventional openers , they slashed , pulled and lofted deliveries over the in-field to capture the imagination of the world . The 1999 edition in England saw the Duckworth-Lewis rain rule being introduced. The tournament also saw the rise of bits-and-pieces cricketers who could bowl medium pace with the white Duke ball . It swung more than the other white balls " even the regular red ball and a number of part-time bowlers like Robin Singh , Sourav Ganguly and Tom Moody picked up wickets. New Zealand tried another ploy in 2003 when Daniel Vettori came up the order to protect their top batsmen. They insisted that he was not a " pinch-blocker " but a handy batsman who could blunt the pacers ' initial burst. It did not work though . The 2007 edition , dogged by the death of Pakistan 's English coach Bob Woolmer , threw up a remarkd able piece of legislation : on-field a umpires could consult the third t umpire for doubtful catches. While e the reference was to check if the d catch was clean ( as opposed to a bump ball ) , ICC ruled that the third umpire could rule not out if the batsman had not snicked the g ball in the first instance. The role of the third umpire became more prominent in 2011 when the DRS ( Decision Review System ) was adopted and Hawke Eye was pressed into use. A littlet known 2.5-metre rule helped England 's Ian Bell survive an LBW against India and the match ended in a tie. The resultant uproar led to the rule being revised ! The 2011 edition saw the reemergence of bits and pieces players. But the field restriction for 2015 , where only four fielders are permitted beyond the 30-yard circle , aims for a return to specialists . THINKING ON THEIR FEET - Hits and misses over the years.. . 1. REVERSE SWEEP FROM GATTING England 's Mike Gatting was ahead of his time when he attempted a reverse sweep against Allan Border and lost his wicket in the final of the 1987 World Cup. He was castigated for the 'uncricket-like ' stroke that cost England the World Cup.Years later , the reverse sweep is now part of the repertoire of most cricketers , notably AB De Villiers and Glenn Maxwell . 2. SWEEPING TO NEW STRATEGY India 's top left-arm spinners , Maninder Singh and Ravi Shastri , were the trump cards during the Reliance World Cup in India and Pakistan. But when India played England , Graham Gooch and Mike Gatting came up with a strategy to bamboozle them. They swept everything in sight and neither Shastri nor Singh had a clue . 3. THE FLOP RAIN-RULE OF 1992 The team batting first 's least productive overs were to be taken out of the equation. But things went horribly wrong in the match between England and South Africa. SA needed 22 from 13 balls when rain stopped play. The revised target was supposedly 22 from 7 balls.But when the players took the field the scoreboard showed 22 from 1 ball which was corrected to 21 from 1 ! 4. 50-OVERS STANDARDIZATION The first three editions of the World Cup , in 1975 , 1979 and 1983 , were played over 60 overs a side. The fourth edition was staged in the subcontinent , where the days are shorter. Floodlights had not yet been introduced in the game in India and hence the improvisation led to the matches being reduced to 50 overs a side -a standard that has stayed with us to this day . 5. WATCH OUT FOR RELAY THROW While De Villiers and Maxwell will be the innovative batsmen to watch out for , the matches in Australia 's vast grounds could see the return of the relay throw which fielders from New Zealand used to dismiss Brian Lara in 2003.The use of the relay throw will keep batsmen on tenterhooks and save the odd run . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
