Crisis-hit Windies thrash India by 124 runs The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Oct 8 , 2014 , 10.29PM IST India 's Shikhar Dhawan reacts after lost his wicket against West Indies during the first ODI match at Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Kochi. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 KOCHI : West Indies put behind an acrimonious pay dispute with their Board to spank number one ranked India by a huge margin of 124 runs in the first one-dayer to take a 1-0 lead in the five-match series here today . The Caribbeans , who were on the verge of boycotting the ODI , rode on Marlon Samuels ' career-best equalling 126 not out to post 321 for six and then shot out the Indians for 197 in 41 overs in a rather one-sided contest at the Nehru Stadium . India paid the price for some mediocre bowling and shoddy batting as they were outplayed by the crisis-hit visiting team in all departments of the game to suffer a heavy defeat . Indian bowlers gave away too many runs at the second part of West Indies innings to allow the visitors pile up a big total after being put into bat and then the much-vaunted home batsmen , except for Shikhar Dhawan ( 68 ) , failed to fire on a batting pitch . Most of Indian batsmen were out on poor shot selection and they could not stitch any substantial partnership in the face of some tight bowling by the visiting bowlers , the highest being the 49 in 8.4 overs for the opening wicket between Dhawan and Ajinkya Rahane ( 24 ) . Dhawan 's scratchy 68 came from 92 balls with the help of nine fours . Ravindra Jadeja ( 33 not out ) was the other Indian batsman who scored more than 20 runs . West Indies , even without their mystery spinner Sunil Narine , could tie down the top Indian batsmen who failed to get the runs when required . Chasing a huge target of 322 for a win , India could not get to a good start as Rahane was run out in a bizarre mixed-up in the ninth over with just 49 on board . Rahane tapped the length ball off Ravi Rampaul on the pads between short fine leg and square leg and after taking the first run quickly , he wanted a second and continued to run hard. But , Dhawan went back after taking a step and both found themselves at the keeper 's end and Rahane had to depart for the dressing room . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
