'Dad 's army ' UAE hope for a moment or two The author has posted comments on this article Ruchir Mishra , TNN | Jan 28 , 2015 , 09.48AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Life as an associate-nation cricketer is not easy. Unlike some other countries where cricketers are treated like demigods and earn millions , cricketers from associate member nations have to earn their bread and butter first , and only then can they think about the cricket. The UAE are no different . Almost all the players in the UAE squad - appearing for only the second time in a World Cup after 1996 - work at other jobs. However , they are passionate about the game , and the Cup platform - where they will get to rub shoulders with star teams like India , Pakistan , South Africa and West Indies - can make it all seem worthwhile. UAE , placed in Group 'B ' , earned their berth after finishing second to Scotland in the 2014 World Cup qualifiers. Their performance also gave them ODI status until 2018 . However , the journey from here will only get tougher. They might have the best infrastructure among associate nations but infrastructure among associate nations but their players hardly get enough time to practice due to their regular jobs . Their star player , vice-captain Khurram Khan , 43 , is a flight purser. Khurram became the oldest player to score an ODI hundred when he hit an unbeaten 132 against Afghanistan last year. Incidentally , Khurram had taken the field just hours after a long flight from San Francisco . Khurram will be the backbone of the side , to be led by offspinner Mohammad Tauqir , who is also 43. Their batting will rely more on Khurram and the Thane-born Swapnil Patil , who played some crucial knocks for the team in the qualifiers . Shaman Anwar and Krishna Chandar are the other batting hopes. Except for Khurram , they do n't have batsmen who can play long innings. However , the side did well in the last series against Afghanistan , winning 4-0. UAE 's bowling is a concern , with only one genuine fast bowler in Mohammad Naveed. However , Manjula Guruge has the ability to swing the new ball and bowl well at the death. Amjad Javed 's role as the third medium pacer will also be crucial in the middle overs . It will be interesting to see how left-arm spinner Rohan Mustafa bowls. His role in the non-Powerplay overs will decide UAE 's fate. Another concern is the fielding. With so many veterans in the side , they will be short of legs in the field. Against Afghanistan , they dropped a dozen catches in four matches . The positive for UAE is that they are under the guidance of former Pakistan speedster Aquib Javed. Javed has played enough in Australia and New Zealand , so knows what has to be done in those conditions. Probably that 's the reason they played against Afghanistan on bouncy tracks and managed put up decent totals against a good attack. The world does n't know much about UAE , and this is their chance to show they belong . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
