Dalmiya emerges as backup candidate for Srini & Co The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Nov 28 , 2014 , 08.34AM IST Jagmohan Dalmiya is likely to be propped up as the group 's presidential candidate. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : The ruling clique within the BCCI is finally reconciling to the fact that their leader , N Srinivasan , might not be able to contest for the president 's post , after all . In fact , it is almost in a state of denial after the Supreme Court observed that all persons named in the Mudgal panel should step aside from the election process and allow a new team to take charge and take a decision . It has , of course , not yet given its verdict and defence counsel Kapil Sibal will argue BCCI 's case on Monday ; but if the court sticks to its stand and keeps Srinivasan out due to conflict of interest , Jagmohan Dalmiya is likely to be propped up as the group 's presidential candidate . " The president has to be from East Zone and we have to see who has the credentials to run the show. Dalmiya has the experience and he might be our candidate , " a source privy to the scheme of things told TOI . Other senior East Zone candidates like Ranjib Biswal ( Orissa ) , Goutam Roy ( Assam ) and Amitabh Chowdhury ( Jharkhand ) may have to be persuaded by Srinivasan to keep the flock together . " Board members have show great unity in times of crisis. Everyone wants Srinivasan back but if that does n't fall into place , we are hoping that the members will stay together and back a candidate with experience and stature , " the source added. Dalmiya has been a BCCI president before ( between 200104 ) and Srinivasan holds him in high esteem. Even a month back , the president-in-exile met Dalmiya at his home as the AGM loomed ; both leaders are also very close to Arun Jaitley , who is being seen as a kingmaker in BCCI politics now . If Srinivasan does n't get a green signal from the Supreme Court and Dalmiya comes into the fray , there 's an apprehension that Sharad Pawar or Shashank Manohar might throw their hat into the ring . The ruling group , however , is confident that it will be able to stop either of them from contesting. The feeling in the camp is that BJP wo n't support the Pawar group and , moreoever , it might not be easy for the Maratha strongman to garner a proposer and a seconder from East Zone . But before all this plays out , the defence counsel will try to clear the way for Srinivasan on Monday . The ruling group still feels that once all the papers asked by the Supreme Court are submitted , the court will see Srinivasan 's position and allow him to contest the polls . " The BCCI constitution was amended when India Cements bought the Chennai franchise in 2008. The letter that the then IPL commissioner Lalit Modi sent to India Cements requesting them to bid for a franchise has been submitted to the Mudgal panel. We have n't flouted a single rule. But it 's in the Supreme Court 's hands now , " the official said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
