Dark day for West Indies cricket The author has posted comments on this article Avijit Ghosh , TNN | Oct 18 , 2014 , 01.41PM IST The fall of West Indies cricket and the rise of pay disputes have almost happened in synchronicity. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 A bunch of Caribbean islands , each with their own governments , coming together for cricket is one of the greatest examples of a sports co-operative . The hordes of problems in recent decades aside , the many differences were generally papered over and the facade of a unified front maintained in West Indies cricket. But on Friday when the Calypso boys struck the rather unmusical note of abandoning their India tour midway following a pay dispute with their cricket board , Caribbean cricket lay in tatters. The West Indies cricket collective is n't dead yet ; but its spirit lies buried. Friday will always be a dark day in its history . The fall of West Indies cricket and the rise of pay disputes have almost happened in synchronicity. During its glory days in the 1980s , West Indies primarily played for pride as best illustrated in the documentary , Fires of Babylon. But with the increasing commercialisation of the game , that viewpoint changed. But while countries like India developed the means and methods to create a money-making machine out of the sport which in turn helped the BCCI feed the hunger for money-share among cricketers , WICB faltered in a similar endeavour . That 's primarily because the popularity of cricket in the region declined over the years ; football and basketball taking away not only the spectators but also promising talents. It became a vicious cycle. With no crowds , there was little sponsorship money. Gate receipts too dwindled. With frequency and percentage of on-field losses growing alarmingly , the crowds preferred to be elsewhere. Tests , once the go-to-place for the wild and the expressive , were now played to empty stands. Even ODIs did n't hold much charm. T20 was the only cash cow now. That too received a jolt when Allen Stanford , one of its top promoters in those parts , was arrested for fraud. He was sentenced to 110 years in jail in 2012 ! The disjunct between the board and the players had started much earlier though. An article published in the Guardian back in 2005 , recalled : " In 1998 , just before the start of a South African Test tour , in the context of an extended pay dispute , the WICB sacked the then captain Brian Lara and vice captain Carl Hooper , beginning two tense , draining days of brinkmanship eventually won by the players. Lara and Hooper were reinstated but the team went on to lose the series 5-0. " Contract payment and sponsorship related issues led to major stand-offs in 2004 and 2005 as well . The sparring between the WICB and West Indies Players Association ( WIPA ) has often included the sponsors too. And sometimes , unkind cuts too have been made. The Guardian story also talks about a leaked memo by a sponsor which " contained comments ( called unfair by WIPA and contradicted by the team manager 's report to the WICB ) such as , if the players had as many runs as they had women 's telephone numbers , they might have won the series. " In recent years , face-offs between WICB and WIPA became worryingly frequent. Ever since T20 leagues have sprouted over the world , the confrontations have become more intransigent. With the more talented players getting an opportunity to ply their trade globally , they have become less dependent on the Board. The much-written about dispute between T20 superstar Chris Gayle and WICB dragged on for 15 months from April 2011 to June 2012 . But the abandoning of a tour midway marks a new low. For fans of Calypso cricket world over , it is a distressing turn of events. There was a romance to West Indies cricket. Where 's all the song and dance gone ? Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
