Declare RCA results on May 6 , orders SC The author has posted comments on this article TNN | May 1 , 2014 , 10.05AM IST The ground appears set for Modi 's return to BCCI. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the declaration of Rajasthan Cricket Association 's ( RCA ) election results on May 6. This could see the return of Lalit Modi into the BCCI fold despite the board having expelled him for life from cricket affairs for alleged financial irregularities in the Indian Premier League . The SC had in November last year appointed Justice N M Kasliwal to supervise the RCA elections and send the result to it in a sealed cover. BCCI had requested the court to first decide the contentious point - whether Modi was eligible at all to contest RCA elections - before opening the sealed cover . During the last hearing , BCCI had requested the court not to declare the election results before deciding on Modi 's eligibility to contest. BCCI 's counsel C A Sundaram had said , " We know the ground reality. Modi has won by a margin of 26 to 6 votes. " Modi had contested against incumbent C P Joshi . With the bench of Justices A R Dave and Shiva Kirti Singh asking Justice Kasliwal to declare the results , the ground appears set for Modi 's return to BCCI , a development which has not gone down well with the current management under N Srinivasan . Ironically , Srinivasan has been asked to stay away from the cricket board by another bench of the Supreme Court following Justice Mukul Mudgal panel 's report indicting his son-in-law Gurunath Meiyappan for betting in IPL 6 . Justices Dave and Singh clarified that the question raised by BCCI - on Modi 's eligibility to contest elections of RCA , an affiliate of BCCI - would be kept open and the board could move an appropriate forum if it felt aggrieved by the election result. The bench asked the court registry to send the sealed cover back to Justice Kasliwal for declaration of results . During the last hearing , the bench had expressed its intention to order declaration of results but BCCI 's counsel had said if Modi was officially declared RCA president , the board would be forced to suspend its affiliation to BCCI and no player from its jurisdiction could be part of Indian teams . BCCI in a unanimous decision on September 26 last year had expelled Modi. Its resolution had said , " Lalit Modi is guilty of committing acts of serious misconduct and indiscipline , and therefore , in exercise of powers as per Regulation 32 of the Memorandum and Rules and Regulations of the board , Lalit Modi is hereby expelled by the BCCI. He shall forfeit all his rights and privileges as administrator. He shall not in future be entitled to hold any position or office , or be admitted in any committee or ( as ) any member or associate member of the board. " The declaration of result , and if it goes as per the BCCI 's prediction , will spark a fresh round of litigation with the pro-Srinivasan group in RCA as well as the board challenging Modi 's election as RCA president. Worse , the board could also impose restriction on selecting players from the region for the Indian team . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
