Demand for special World Cup stamps are high The author has posted comments on this article Parul Pandey , TNN | Mar 5 , 2015 , 02.17PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Letters might be outmoded , but it seems stamps are n't , especially when their popularity is helped along by cricket. And in World Cup season , anything World Cup , especially when it 's original and exclusive , is likely to go off the shelves like balls off Shikhar Dhawan 's bat ! We 're talking about the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Souvenir Sheets of stamps launched by New Zealand , which celebrate the World Cup , and which India Post has acquired . A senior India Post official said , " Celebrating the 2015 World Cup , New Zealand recently launched this souvenir sheet that has stamps featuring 14 countries . We ( India Post ) have acquired 1 lakh souvenir sheets from New Zealand Post , which are being sold online and offline , and are in demand among both philatelists ( stamp collectors ) and cricket lovers. By now , we have already sold over 20,000 sheets , and the highest number have been bought by cricket lovers. " A profit making deal : Philatelists Ashok Mehta , a Mumbai based professional philatelistwho has been collecting stamps for over four decades , has recently acquired the souvenir sheet. " I am in this hobby since I was in school. Recently a colleague brought to me this very beauitful sheet of round stamps , shaped like a cricket bowl released by New Zealand , " he reveals . Another interesting thing he points out is that the stamps are undervalued and hence , quite a smart puchase. " These stamps were printed by the New Zealand post office and when you convert it , are worth approximately '450. However , they were sold in India for '400 , " informs Mehta . Special souvenir sheets for India " To personalise this souvenir for Indian cricket lovers , we 'd asked New Zealand to inscribe 'ICC Cricket World Cup Champion 1983 ' and '2011 India ' in the middle of the souvenir sheet , " says a senior India Post official . Besides India , the souvenir sheet also has stamps of England , UAE , Sri Lanka , Ireland , Bangladesh , Australia , New Zealand , South Africa , Pakistan , West Indies , Afghanistan , Zimbabwe and Scotland . Stamp prices go up with time " People buy these souvenirs as their prices increase manifold with time , since they are very rare and limited in number. We have a policy of publishing such souvenirs only once , and they are never repeated despite demand. So if anyone wants to buy them , they need to hurry up , " said the India Post official . A single souvenir sheet is available for '400 , but those who buy a pack of five sheets will get a discount of 20 % - they 'll have to pay only '2,000. Jyotika Maheshwari , who has a collection of stamps , says , " Some of these rare stamps are sold at very high rates. But the money factor aside , I bought this cricket one the day I learnt about it. " Increase in demand for Sachin stamp In the past too , India Post has issued stamps on personalities from cricket , hockey , football and other sports , some of them being Dhyan Chand , Vijay Merchant , CK Nayudu , Deodhar and Vinod Mankad. The stamp of Sachin Tendulkar has seen high demand since the World Cup started. " He is our exception - we have a policy of not issuing stamps on personalities who are still alive. The Sachin stamp was launched after he completed 200 centuries , " says the official . ( With inputs by Reza Noorani ) Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
