Dempo chase rare hat-trick of GPL titles The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Feb 22 , 2015 , 05.49PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 PANAJI : Dempo Cricket Club will be determined to grab a rare hat-trick of titles in the Goa Professional League ( GPL ) T20 cricket tournament that kick starts on Sunday at the Academy ground in Porvorim but they will have to deal with possibly the toughest challenge this season . Dempo broke the bank to retain captain Sagun Kamat for Rs 4 lakh and have , amongst others , the likes of Reagan Pinto , Gurkeerat Singh Mann , Sandeep Sharma and Ashok Menaria. But , unlike in the past , they can not take anything for granted . Lying in wait will be the likes of Sarvodaya Royals , who after two failed attempts in the final , will be hoping to turn the corner . " I think there is hardly anything that separates all the eight participating franchisees. The teams are evenly balanced , " said Sarvodaya Royals owner Vilas Desai , whose team has made it to two finals in the past . Desai has spent heavily on his teams in the past , importing some famous players like Varun Sood , Avinash Yadav and Sudeep Tyagi. But , he himself admits , there is no sure-shot formula . " Some established Ranji Trophy players have not been able to win matches on their own here. A combination of factors are needed to become champions , " said Desai , who , this time , has imported former India batsman Manoj Tiwary and bowler Ashok Dinda to give his team a champions edge. Dinda , if anyone needs reminding , represented India in T20 against Sri Lanka and his maiden international wicket was that of Sanath Jayasuriya . The GPL will have three new participating franchisees. While Delhi based franchise Sun Estates Warriors will have several known names and Shadab Jakati leading the charge , Jain Sports Academy ( Jalgaon ) will provide an equally formidable challenge . Most of the buzz before the tournament has revolved around Caculo Goans. The newcomers have evoked plenty of interest with the signing of outstation players like Piyush Chawla , Rishi Dhawan and Sachin Baby , all of whom have plenty of experience playing in the Indian Premier League T20. Then there is Goa 's very own Swapnil Asnodkar , who has given enough proof in the past that he can win a match , on his day , on his own . Today 's Match : 6 : 30pm : Caculo Goans Sarvodaya Royals Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
