Dhawan , Rahane set up 169-run win against listless Lankans The author has posted comments on this article Pratik Bandyopadhyay , TNN | Nov 3 , 2014 , 10.39AM IST Shikhar Dhawan hugs Ajinkya Rahane after completing his century during 1st ODI against Sri Lanka in Cuttack. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CUTTACK : India 's World Cup preparation got off to a rollicking start on Sunday at the Barabati Stadium as the Men in Blue brushed aside Sri Lanka in the first ODI of the five-match series. Ajinkya Rahane ( 111 ) and Shikhar Dhawan ( 113 ) , two men in race for the opening slots , made full use of the 'drops ' of relief they got on a hot day. Riding their 231-run opening partnership and milestone man Suresh Raina 's ( it was his 200th ODI ) 34-ball 52 , India scored 363 for five batting first , virtually wrapping up the contest. The bowlers then put finishing touches with aplomb with senior pacer Ishant Sharma leading from the front , giving the team a 169-run win . The islanders , except for the first nine overs of the host innings , did not look competitive. Their chase was virtually over when they were reduced to 109 for four in the 22nd over. When Mahela Jayawardene , the only batsman who was hitting fours at will , was dismissed by Akshar Patel in the 26th over , there was no way back for Sri Lanka. The only thing they won on the day was the toss . Nothing signified their listlessness than the two costly drops by none other than Kumar Sangakkara. He dropped Dhawan , diving to his left , when the southpaw played an unsure push off Dhammika Prasad 's outswinger. Then he dropped Rahane , going to his right , when Thisara Perera found the right-hander 's edge. The timing of the drops made a huge difference. Dhawan , who has not been among runs , was finding the going tough initially as Prasad and debutant Lahiru Gamage moved the new ball off the seam. He was on 10 at the time of the miss and trying all sorts of things to get out of jail. Rahane , on the other hand , was beginning to play his shots after a sedate start when the Lankan wicketkeeper dropped him in the 18th over . After that , it looked like Barabati was holding an exhibition of hitting. While Rahane showed how a batsman 's footwork can be as delightful as a dancer , Dhawan was at his improvising best. Be it a medium-pacer or spinner , Rahane often took a few steps down the track before launching into his drives or pulls. Among his 13 boundaries and two sixes , the best was the one off Sri Lanka skipper Angelo Mathews. Rahane had danced down the track and Mathews shortened the length but the batsman sent the ball soaring over long-on with his feet off the ground. Ironically , Rahane 's downfall came when he danced down the wicket to Suraj Randiv , getting the ball at the toe end of his bat and offering a s simple catch to Jayawardene at mid-off. Dhawan revelled in sweeping , reverse sweeping and driving down the ground. He t was batting with such ease after a point that it seemed he could not be dismissed. It took an across-the-line heave off Prasanna Seekkuge to get an inside edge first on to his front leg and then his stumps . Raina and captain Virat Kohli took over and ensured the heat was on . Indian bowlers ' performance was also impressive. Ishant showed discipline and his four wickets were rewards for bowling in the channel outside the off-stump consistently .The delivery that sent back Sangakkara was an absolute beauty. Umesh Yadav and Varun Aaron generated a lot of pace and bowled good lines before the latter left the field. It was heartening to see Indian pacers bowling at 145km plus from both ends , a very rare occurrence. However , the match situation did n't give them a test of death bowling . Even though R Ashwin looked innocuous on return , young Akshar Patel impressed again , generating a lot of turn and taking the key wicket of Jayawardene , not to mention his two sixes with the bat . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
