Dhoni , bowlers face flak for tactics The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Dec 28 , 2014 , 12.44PM IST MS Dhoni has been accused of letting the game drift and in both Brisbane and here , he has been eager to target the tail with short balls. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : India 's obstinacy played into Australia 's hands on Saturday. MS Dhoni , who once worked for Indian Railways , turned on the railroad switch and treated his seamers like goods trains forced to change track on a whim. The result was awry lengths and a muddled performance which enabled Smith and the Aussie tail to take the game away early on Day Two . Dhoni has been accused of letting the game drift and in both Brisbane and here , he has been eager to target the tail with short balls. The ploy failed at the Gabba and it failed here again , forcing Dhoni to switch to more recognizable , more sedate defensive fields after lunch. Dhoni made the trio of Umesh Yadav , Ishant Sharma and Mohammad Shami bowl short to Haddin and bowl length to Smith at the other end , an impossible order to carry out for most pacers as it disrupts their rhythm . Haddin had been out to such a delivery at the Gabba but decided to take the bowling on this time. In a short while , Dhoni 's bowlers were looking incapable of bowling to their fields. Shami , the slowest of the lot , came off the worst affected and strayed too often down leg. India 's best bowler on the first day , Ravichandran Ashwin , was inexplicably introduced only 25 minutes before lunch . Former Australia captain turned commentator Ian Chappell went so far as to label Dhoni 's captaincy the " worst he has seen in Test cricket " , adding : " It 's ridiculous. He 's not giving his bowlers a chance. It 's difficult for a bowler to thump it in against one batsman and bowl good line and length to the other. He ( Dhoni ) has lapses as a captain. You have a use-by date as a captain and Dhoni passed his a long-time ago. " India had bowled to a plan on the first day and the change in tactic was unfathomable , especially after Mitchell Johnson had taken the game away at the Gabba after confronting the same short-ball tactic . India have allowed the opposition to score 400-plus from being five down for less than 250 four times in 2014 and seven times since 2010. It has happened twice against New Zealand , thrice against England and twice here. The seventh to 10th wickets have scored at an average of 4.06 , the maximum against any team . Ashwin , though , defended the pre-lunch tactic to bowl short . Asked why India persisted with the short ball to Haddin when he seemed comfortable , Ash win shot back , " Did he seem comfort able ? If you say so . We really thought we had a genuine weakness over there. We will continue to target him. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
