Dhoni hopes rest after long summer aids World Cup The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 7 , 2015 , 09.59AM IST Dhoni missed the birth of his first child , but asked whether he would rather have been in India in recent days he said : " Not really. " ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Indian captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni is hoping that a break in a long summer tour of Australia has recharged his men for the World Cup and has not left them " over-cooked " . READ ALSO : Winless Australia tour leaves India vulnerable India have endured a lengthy and miserable tour Down Under in which they were beaten 2-0 in the four-match Test series and then failed to win a game in the one-day tri-series which also included England . " It 's not easy to play four Test matches... followed by a tri-nation series , " Dhoni told reporters in Adelaide on Saturday . " So this break would have definitely helped them to recharge their batteries ... only time will tell. " " I know that cooked and over-cooked is a very fine line between them -- and especially if you do a barbecue you can understand that , " he added . Dhoni missed the birth of his first child , a daughter born on Friday , for the Australia tour , but asked whether he would rather have been in India in recent days he said : " Not really. " " I have been blessed with a baby daughter. Mum and daughter both are good , " he told reporters . " But as of now I am on national duties so I think everything else can wait. The World Cup is a very important campaign. " India played their final tri-series game on January 30 and will begin the defence of their World Cup title against traditional rivals Pakistan on February 15 in Adelaide . " A lot of people have different views about it , " Dhoni said. " How I personally take it forward is it 's similar to playing against Australia , Sri Lanka or any other Test playing nation . " Because the moment you start thinking about the traditional rivalry and all of that , you 're just adding pressure to yourself. " Dhoni said that over the past three or four years the atmosphere on the field had mellowed , with verbal exchanges between cricketers minimised . " And I feel that is really good for the game because you want to play it as a sport , you want to play hard , but you still have to maintain the spirit of the game , " he said . " That is one thing that both the sides have done really well. " While the India fans will have high expectations , Dhoni downplayed the pressure on his team . " What is most important is ( that ) the 15-member squad and the support staff right now are not to think about expectation , " he said . " That is something that will be crucial ... we 're not thinking too much about the fans. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
