Dhoni jumps two places to 8th in ICC ODI rankings The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 16 , 2015 , 05.51PM IST Skipper MS Dhoni watches as he hits the winning six to defeat Zimbabwe by six wickets to win their ICC World Cup Pool B match in Auckland , New Zealand. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Having regained his form with two unbeaten knocks in the league stage of the cricket World Cup , India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni has gained two spots to be placed eight in the latest ICC batting rankings . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Dhoni , who made an unbeaten 45 against West Indies and a a brilliant 85 not out against Zimbabwe , has led the team to 10 consecutive World Cup wins surpassing Clive Lloyd 's streak of nine win for West Indies and is now second only to Ricky Ponting 's 21 straight wins for Australia in the 50-over showpiece event . Opener Shikhar Dhawan is ranked seventh ahead of Dhoni while Virat Kohli ( 4 ) is the highest-ranked Indian in the batting chart led by South African captain AB de Villiers. Sri Lanka 's Kumar Sangakkara and Hashim Amla are placed at second and third respectively . Outside the top-10 , India 's Suresh Raina , who mesmerized the Auckland crowd with his unbeaten 110 in India 's win against Zimbabwe , has jumped three spots to be placed 17th . The bowling chart is without any Indian in the top-10 as pace spearhead Mohammed Shami , who is just behind Australia 's Mitchell Starc in the wicket-takers list in this edition of the quadrennial event , is ranked 11th above Pakistan 's Mohammed Irfan . Starc , who has bagged 16 wickets in the tournament so far , is ranked third behind Dale Steyn and the duo is closing in on top bowler Saeed Ajmal 's rating points . Indian spinners Ravichandran Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja are placed 16th and 18th respectively with medium-pacer Bhuvneshwar Kumar ( 17 ) sandwiched in between . Jadeja though is tied seventh with Australia 's Glenn Maxwell in the all-rounders list led by Sri Lanka 's Tillakaratne Dilshan . The rankings though will see a rise and fall once the knockouts kick-start on Wednesday . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
