Dhoni led by example not by rhetoric : Dravid The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Dec 31 , 2014 , 01.21PM IST Dravid said Dhoni deserves credit for inspiring a whole generation of small-town cricketers. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Lavishing praise on Mahendra Singh Dhoni , who has shocked the cricket world by retiring from Tests , former Indian skipper Rahul Dravid said the stumper-batsman would go down as a captain who led " more by example than by rhetoric or by words " . " He was a captain I enjoyed playing under , " Dravid told 'ESPNcricinfo' . " One of the things I liked about MS was , what you saw was what you got. Very uncomplicated , always led by example. One of the things I really liked about playing under MS was that he never asked you to do anything that he himself did n't do , " he explained . Dhoni retired from Test cricket at the end of the third Test against Australia , which ended in a draw on Tuesday. The retirement was a bolt from the blue given that Dhoni had dropped no hint of such a big decision leading up to the match . Dravid said Dhoni earned the respect of his teammates by setting an example with his own performance . " The reality was he was having to transition a senior group of players and build a younger group who were coming through , " Dravid said . " In a sense he was not the most communicative of captains , but he tried to earn your respect by walking the talk. He never took a backward step , and led more by example than by rhetoric or by words. More by actions , " he added . Dravid said Dhoni deserves credit for inspiring a whole generation of small-town cricketers . " For someone to come from a small town like Ranchi , to go on and captain India and play 90 Test matches , to do it the way he has , I think he brought a lot of dignity to the job of captaincy , " Dravid said . " He ( Dhoni ) might not be everyone 's cup of tea , but he was his own cup of tea and he led with a lot of success and that can never be taken away from him , " Dravid further stated . " And he 's been an inspiration. If there are kids in small towns today dreaming and aspiring for great things , not only in cricket but in various fields , then MS Dhoni has a lot to do with it , " he added . Dravid said Dhoni 's retirement was a shock to him as well. The former batsman said had the series , which India have already lost by conceding a 2-0 lead to Australia , still been alive Dhoni could have waited to take a call on his career . " I guess it was unexpected that he would do it in the middle of the series. I expected him to review it at the end of the series , without India playing Test cricket for the next seven or eight months , " Dravid said . " Knowing MS , if the series was alive , I do n't think he would have taken the decision in the middle of the series , but having seen that the series was already gone , maybe he felt that if he was going to go , then maybe this was the time to do it , and to give Virat Kohli a Test match in Australia to captain , Wriddhiman Saha another opportunity in a Test match , and to start the process of taking India 's Test team forward. " Dravid lauded Dhoni 's leadership style and called him an attacking captain . " He was never defensive when captaining in India. When he had spinners , he was always attacking , on turning tracks , he was willing to force the game. It 's just overseas , and over the last three or four years , that I just think he maybe felt he did n't have the bowling resources to be able to take 20 wickets , and he found himself , at many stages , always behind the four-ball , " Dravid said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
