Dhoni 's bizarre solution to avoid collapse : Do n't look at scoreboard The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Dec 21 , 2014 , 09.20AM IST Skipper MS Dhoni did n't agree that Saturday 's debacle was related to the others. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE : Judging by the number of collapses they have suffered in recent times , the Indian batsmen may as well put 'Domino Dancing ' on repeat in the dressing room when they tour away from home . The Gabba on Saturday offered just the latest example of opportunity wasted but it was n't long in coming : the first Test on this tour in Adelaide followed an identical script . In Adelaide , India scored 444 in the first innings but lost their last six wickets for 77 runs to concede the lead. In the second innings they went from 242/2 to 315 all out chasing 364 and lost the game . Here at the Gabba , India did extremely well to put up 408 on the scorecard after opting to bat first on a pitch renowned for its pace and bounce , but lost their last six wickets for 87 when they could have batted Australia out of the game. And on Saturday , they lost the game on the fourth day itself , going from 71/1 overnight to 87/5 in the first session . Skipper MS Dhoni did n't agree that Saturday 's debacle was related to the others. " Today was quite different compared to some other games , " he said. " Yes , we have had batting collapses in the recent Test series that we have played. This was something very different. This will be addressed in a different way. " " Generally how you address this situation is you tell them to bat as normally as possible....to not really look at the scorecard and see what really happened , " said Dhoni. " You play according to the merit of the delivery. If it is there to be hit , you hit. You look to score and be positive. That 's how it is supposed to be. But today was slightly different , as I said. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
