Dhoni 's decision surprised us all : Saha The author has posted comments on this article Archiman Bhaduri , TNN | Jan 14 , 2015 , 11.18AM IST Despite losing the series 2-0 , Saha believes India played well this time. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : Bengal wicketkeeper Wriddhiman Saha , after living in the shadow of Mahendra Singh Dhoni for four years , finally got a chance to establish his credentials in the national team on India 's recent Test tour of Australia when the skipper announced his retirement from Test cricket in Melbourne . Dhoni 's decision surprised all , including Saha , who said the Indian team had no clue about it . " Dhoni 's announcement surprised us all. He will be missed no doubt but it 's a team game and only XI can play. We have to keep playing in the same manner , " Saha said after hitting an unbeaten 129 for Bengal against Jammu and Kashmir in the Ranji Trophy match at the Eden Gardens on Tuesday . Saha , however , is well aware of the fact that cementing his place in the national side will not be an easy job. " Playing international cricket is a big responsibility. People will breathe down your neck. You 've to rise to the challenge , " he said . Saha did not particularly shine with the bat in Australia , making 73 runs at 18.25 in four innings in Adelaide and Sydney - the first and the last Tests . His inexperience came to fore when he got out for 13 while stepping out to Nathan Lyon with India just 65 runs shy of victory at the Adelaide Oval. " We were told to go after the bowling in the team meeting and we wanted to score freely but unfortunately I got out , " Saha said while trying to explain his shot selection . Despite losing the series 2-0 , Saha believes India played well this time. " The 2-0 loss notwithstanding , we played well in Australia. There was a lot of positive energy on and off the field . This helped us all grow as cricketers , " he stated . The series had been a learning experience for Saha too. During his nearly two-month stay in Australia , Saha had many one-on-one sessions with coach Duncan Fletcher who made a few technical adjustments to his stance , advising him to open up a bit. " A slightly wider stance is helping me move my feet more freely. The challenge now is to keep performing consistently , " Saha said . The 30-year-old heaped praise on India 's new Test captain Virat Kohli , saying that the team was all fired up under the Delhi batsman . " He always tries to liven up the atmosphere. I know him ( Kohli ) since his U-19 days. He always plays an aggressive brand of cricket and spreads that feeling in the dressing room too. If we can translate that into performance and play session by session , we 'll definitely do well in the coming days , " Saha hoped . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
