Dhoni 's decision to quit midway surprised BCCI The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Dec 31 , 2014 , 09.58AM IST BCCI maintains that Dhoni has left at his peak and that no one ever told him " when to go " . ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : MS Dhoni pulled the curtains down on his Test career on Tuesday but the World Cup in February-March wo n't be his ODI swansong. One understands that Dhoni will continue to play limited-overs cricket , and may even lead India in ODIs and T20s beyond the 2015 World Cup . READ ALSO : MS Dhoni takes the highway , Mahi way " There is absolutely no doubt that Dhoni will play ODIs and T20s post World Cup. The form that he is in , it wo n't be a surprise if he leads India even in 2016 T20 World Cup , " a source close to the developments told TOI . The board maintains that Dhoni has left at his peak and that no one ever told him " when to go " . But Dhoni felt Virat Kohli has shaped up well as a captain and if the baton of Test captaincy has to be handed over , this is the best time . The decision to leave Test captaincy midway through the Australia series , though , came as a bit of a surprise to the BCCI officials , but they had got the hint that he might call it quits after the fourth Test . One understands that if India had won this Test , he would have stayed on till Sydney. But now that the series is lost , Dhoni might have thought it better to go into the tri series leading up to the World Cup with a bit of rest. The fact that India managed to save the Melbourne Test match and Dhoni played a part in doing so might also have prompted him to " leave on bit of a high " . The continuous pressure of playing all the three formats was taking a huge toll on his 33-yearold body and the fact that " he was being forced to bend on average 600 times in each Test innings " was n't helping his cause . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
