Dhoni 's decision was pretty shocking , says Kohli The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jan 5 , 2015 , 11.47AM IST " There were quite a few things that I sat down and analysed in Adelaide that can be improved on and I 've thought about them in the past few days , " Virat Kohli said. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : New India skipper Virat Kohli says he will encourage his team to play positively and not back down against Australia in the final Test in Sydney , which begins on Tuesday . READ ALSO : Respect Dhoni 's selfless act , says Shastri Kohli has been thrust into the captaincy following the shock Test retirement of Mahendra Singh Dhoni following last week 's drawn third Test in Melbourne . India 's premier batsman said India will continue to stand up to the Australians , who have already reclaimed the Border-Gavaskar Trophy with an unassailable 2-0 lead in the four-match series . READ ALSO : MS Dhoni - The inscrutable skipper " It 's important for the players to know that we need to be in a positive frame of mind , a line does n't need to be crossed , " Kohli told reporters Monday . " But we are not here to back down from any sort of confrontation or any sort of battle . " You will still see positive cricket and the same aggressive intent. " Kohli , who led India in the first Test in Adelaide while Dhoni was recovering from a fractured thumb , has been his side 's leading batsman in the series , averaging 83.16 with three centuries and a fifty . READ ALSO : A new year and a new era under Virat Kohli Kohli has been at the forefront of on-field confrontations with Australian players , notably Mitchell Johnson , Brad Haddin and David Warner and his style of leadership will be under scrutiny in the wake of Dhoni 's sudden exit . MS Dhoni and Virat Kohli ( left ) talk prior to the start of of the second Test match against Australia at the Gabba in Brisbane. ( AFP Photo ) " We were all taken aback by his decision because it was so sudden , " Kohli said of Dhoni . " We had no clue. We never saw it coming , so it was pretty shocking. " There 's so much to learn from him , especially in tough situations : his composure , his decision-making at important times . " These are the things which are priceless. Any captain would love to have them. I hope I can be as calm as him , but everyone has different styles. " Kohli said since the Melbourne Test he has been thinking about areas to improve the India team , who have won only one of their last 22 Tests overseas and have been successful in only one of their 10 Tests at the Sydney Cricket Ground . " There were quite a few things that I sat down and analysed in Adelaide that can be improved on and I 've thought about them in the past few days , " Kohli said . " What are the things that I can correct from Adelaide , the mistakes I made in that game ? " Hopefully , I 'll get those right and try to make the right decisions in every situation out there in the middle. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
