Dhoni 's faith makes it easier for me : Raina The author has posted comments on this article Prasad RS , TNN | Sep 15 , 2014 , 01.08PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : After having played a key role in winning India a bilateral ODI series on England soil after a gap of 24 years , Suresh Raina is gearing up for his next assignment - the upcoming Champions League Twenty20 ( CLT20 ) where he will don the Chennai Super Kings jersey . The left-hander spoke to TOI on his recent international performances , the preparation for the tournament , and what makes CSK such a consistent side . Excerpts : You scored 160 runs , took four wickets in the ODI series against England and named the Man-of-the-series. What was the key to the success ? From gearing up mentally for the tour , to working on the basics and on the type of conditions one gets there , I was up for it. All I wanted to do was to go out there and express myself. I am quite happy with the way I performed , and more importantly - help India win . You were supposed to be in Hyderabad ahead of CSK 's first game , but made a surprise visit to Chennai. What 's the reason for that ? The boys have been training here for the last few days , and I decided to be part of it. I wanted to spend some time with them before the start of the tournament. I batted at No 5 in England , and I wanted to have a hit since I would be batting at No. 3 for CSK . What makes CSK such a consistent outfit over the years ? I think we not only have wonderful players who have done well over the years , but also been blessed with a great bunch of coaching and support staff. And our players share a special bond with them , and that gets reflected in our performances on the field. One sees great on-field camaraderie between you and MS Dhoni . What 's the secret to that ? Dhoni is one of the best skippers we have had across all formats. He has always supported me whether I was turning up for India or for CSK. Once your skipper shows such faith in your abilities , all you have to do is back it up with performances . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
