Dhoni speaks on IPL scam , does n't expect speculation to stop The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jan 25 , 2015 , 12.54PM IST Dhoni finally broke his stoic silence over the IPL spot-fixing scandal on Sunday. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Indian cricket captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni finally broke his stoic silence over the IPL spot-fixing scandal on Sunday , saying that he does not expect the speculation around his name to stop anytime soon despite nothing concrete coming up against him . Dhoni , who captains Chennai Super Kings in the Indian Premier League , has been remarkably calm in the last couple of years despite his name regularly cropping up in cases pertaining to conflict of interest . There was wild speculation about his name being among the yet-to-be-released list of 13 players , who have been indicted by the Justice Mukul Mudgal Committee in the IPL spot-fixing and betting scandal . " I know one thing , irrespective of what is there , when it comes to Indian cricket , my name keeps popping up. Now that this has been settled , something new will pop up. It keeps popping up. I am quite used to it , " Dhoni said ahead of the tri-series match against Australia . " If there is nothing , some speculative story comes up , big or small. I have to keep dealing with all these things. It is the end of one story , something else may start in a couple of days ' time , " Dhoni said . Delivering its long-awaited verdict , the Supreme Court barred BCCI president-in-exile N Srinivasan from contesting the Board 's Presidential elections . The Court also declared that the allegation of betting against Gurunath Meiyappan , a CSK team official and son-in-law of Srinivasan , and Rajasthan Royals co-owner Raj Kundra stands proved while the charge of cover up against Srinivasan was " not proved " . Striking down rules that permitted BCCI office bearers to have a commercial interest by owning teams in the hugely-popular Indian Premier League and Champions League , a two-member bench of Justices T S Thakur and F M I Khalifulla , said , " Amendment in the BCCI rules allowing Srinivasan to own IPL team is bad as conflict of interest in cricket leads to great confusion. " While he has refused to comment on the issue in the past , this time around Dhoni was asked a different question , if the final ruling in the matter has come as a relief since the matter is now coming to a near-end pending a three-judge tribunal making a final judgement . There has been wild , mischievous and obviously unsubstantiated speculation that his was among 13 names presented in a sealed envelope by the Justice Mudgal panel to the Supreme Court . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
