Dinner with Sachin Tendulkar , billed high in Sydney restaurant The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 18 , 2015 , 12.49PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : If your dream is to dine with Sachin Tendulkar then be ready to shell out big bucks as Sydney 's most iconic restaurant is offering an exclusive dinner with the Little Master priced at 1,500 to 3,000 Australian dollars with just a few seats up for grabs . The VIP dinner which will be only attended by over 60 people will be held on February 26 after the India-South Africa match on Sunday . According to one of the organizer , the dinner will coincide with the cricket icon 's trip to Australia to watch the India-South Africa match . The flyer of the event which is doing the rounds in Australia says 'You are invited to an exclusive VIP dining experience with the Master himself - Sachin Tendulkar' . " We are receiving an amazing response. It 's not an event but it 's an exclusive dinner with the Cricket legend , " the organizer , on the condition of anonymity , said . There will be tables of eight people and choice of entries , mains and desserts will be served along with premium wines and spirits . Around a dozen of people sitting on Tendulkar 's table will have the pleasure of mingling with him for half an hour over cocktails and drinks , he said adding that it would be only for a dozen people and has been priced for 3000 Australian Dollars . During the dinner , an Emcee will introduce and interview Sachin and take questions from the attendees . The cricketer would sign some auction items and also give away his recently released autobiography with his signatures . The organizer said that the money raised would go towards Tendulkar 's foundation . There is an expectation that a similar dinner might come to Melbourne in March when Tendulkar visits the city for the World Cup finals . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
