Do n't underestimate India after Test loss : Hussey The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jan 13 , 2015 , 11.57AM IST The ODI season in Australia is about to begin this week with the tri-series against India and England starting on January 16. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Former Australian batsman Michael Hussey warned teams against underestimating India after their 0-2 loss in the Test series and said the visitors will be a confident side when they start their title defence in next month 's World Cup . " The big positive for India is that they have already been in Australia for the last two months. They are now well versed with the conditions here , the pace and bounce of pitches. They also have a tri-series coming up involving England. So they have a good run before the World Cup starts and nobody should underestimate them because of the Test results , " Hussey said . " Do n't read too much into the 2-0 scoreline because not only did India compete hard in the Test series but they are a completely different outfit in limited-overs. They are very confident in that mode , " he added . India lost the four-Test series against Australia after going down in the first two matches . Talking about India 's performance , Hussey said the visitors ' batting line did well but the bowling lacked disciplined . " Well the batting has completely changed and they have done well. Virat Kohli is a fantastic player and he has just scored runs by the heaps. I think this will continue for him going forward , " said Hussey , who was part of the Australian team during India 's 2011 tour . " But then there have been others too , like Murali Vijay and Ajinkya Rahane , giving support to Kohli. Something like that was missing in the 2011 tour. Not to mention they have been able to unearth a talent like KL Rahul. It is quite an achievement for a youngster to come to Australia and get a maiden Test ton . " I dare say that this Indian attack looks better than the one in 2011 and they are all good bowlers individually. But there is a difference between being a good bowler and bowling good. And they have bowled poorly , lacking in discipline throughout the series. However I also do believe that this series will serve as great exposure for them and they can learn a lot from this tour for the future. " The ODI season in Australia is about to begin this week with the tri-series against India and England starting on January 16. The after-taste of India 's 2-0 loss in the four-Test series prior will slowly dissipate. However with the ODI World Cup only a month away , the clock on Duncan Fletcher 's reign as Indian coach is slowly ticking down . Hussey , whose name started doing the round as soon as 2015 started , has ruled himself out of the race atleast for the time being . " The news that my name is in contention came as quite a surprise. I have known MS Dhoni for quite some time now and it is flattering to even think that he would think so highly of me. However , I have n't spoken with him on this matter and I do n't know how much truth there is to this whole story , " said Hussey . " No one has talked to me about this and there have been no approaches to me from the BCCI at this stage to be the next Indian coach. " When asked if he would indeed be interested should the BCCI contact him at a later time , Hussey replied : " To be honest , I have n't thought about it at all. At this stage in my career , I am still playing cricket actively , here in the Big Bash League and of course in the Indian Premier League as well. So I am not thinking about it at the moment . " At some point in time , if I do think about it , well , India is a cricket-loving , cricket-mad nation , where a billion people support their team. I can only say that it will be one of the most exciting and huge challenges of my life if I ever get mixed up in an opportunity like this. " Clearly , coaching is not on Hussey 's radar at present. But that is n't entirely true as well , for he is in the auction mix for the upcoming IPL season after being released by Mumbai Indians recently. There have been instances earlier of senior players taking a dual responsibility in the IPL . " I am still looking to play on at the moment and I am keeping my options open. I have played for Chennai Super Kings and Mumbai Indians so far in the IPL. The auction provides me a chance to play for one of those teams again or perhaps a new team this time around , " he said . When asked if he will be willing to take a dual playing-coaching role with an IPL team to shape up his coaching future once he decides to stop playing , Hussey said : " Well yes. I am quite open to that. Even now , whether in the BBL or earlier in the IPL , I have often talked to youngsters both on and off the field , so I am no stranger to it . " If the teams would like to put an official stamp on it , that will be fine by me as well. Having said that , I have n't been in touch with any IPL team as yet to secure such an opportunity and I am waiting for the auction to happen. " With the World Cup round the corner , Australia has named injured Michael Clarke in their 15-member squad , giving the cricketer time till February 21 to prove his fitness . Australia is playing Bangladesh on Feb 21 , before taking on New Zealand , Afghanistan , Sri Lanka and Scotland in the group stage matches . A part of the World Cup winning squad in 2007 , Hussey said Clarke should have been given time until the Sri Lanka game on March 8 to be fit . " I 'd be happy for Michael to miss the first four games. He 's obviously a very important player , he 's the captain , he has a lot of experience , he 's played World Cups - we need him. He should be given as much time as possible to get himself right and carried for as long as possible , " said Hussey . " That 's just my opinion. They want to keep continuity and , also , there is no guarantee he does n't re-injure it. It 's a really difficult situation for the selectors but , just on principle , my stance would ( be ) to try and give him as long as possible. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
