Doubt my injuries ? Look at the reports : Irfan Pathan The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Jan 9 , 2015 , 09.52AM IST I asked the Baroda Cricket Association to give me an NOC if they were n't going to pick me despite regaining fitness , because I was keen to play the top level again , says Irfan Pathan. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : It is difficult to believe that Irfan Pathan is 'just ' 30 after all ! His story , it feels , was over long ago. Once upon a time , he was revered as India 's best all-rounder , before rapidly losing it all . Recently , Pathan was in the news for the wrong reason - apparently he had threatened to leave Baroda if he was n't played after returning from a knee injury . In a tete-a-tete with TOI on Thursday , Pathan cleared the air of controversy surrounding him.. . How was the comeback ? It was very good. Baroda were No 7 on the table before this match , but my effort ( 98 runs & three wickets ) and that of my brother Yusuf 's ( six for 67 ) helped us jump to the No 2 spot in Group A. I bowled 29 overs and took the most number of wickets amongst all the four ex-India seamers who played this game. It wo n't be long before I am bowling at my best . It was said that you threatened to leave Baroda if not picked for this match ? I asked the Baroda Cricket Association ( BCA ) to give me an NOC if they were n't going to pick me despite regaining fitness , because I was keen to play the top level again and the selectors did n't give me a timeline on when I would be picked again. However , it was disappointing to see this come out in the public domain. It was 'team talk ' and should 've stayed there. I felt sad to read this in the newspapers on the first day of the match. Playing for Baroda will always be my first priority. I was keen to play since we were in danger of slipping to the 'Elite ' group in the Ranji Trophy . You have suffered quite a few injuries of late.. . Being injured is not a crime. If fast bowlers were put in a jail for being injured , then almost all of them would be behind the bars ! I bounced back from this injury thanks to my physio Ashish Kaushik , trainer Matt Damon and doctor Divish Paddywala. In our country , people just want to sit in their drawing rooms and assume a lot of things. No one wants to know how tough it is to fight injuries and what goes behind the scenes while recovering from them. Believe me , there is a lot of hard work involved . There is a perception that you suddenly become fit when the cash-rich IPL happens.. . There is nothing which can match playing for India. I and my brother do n't come from a background where money is given primary importance. Even right now , I have offers from seven news channels to offer expert views on the World Cup. However , I am staying a in a three-star hotel in Lucknow , focused on playing cricket and making a comeback to the Indian team in future. In 2012 , I played seven days of continuous cricket ( a three-day game vs England for India 'A, ' and then a Ranji game for Baroda ) in Mumbai and Baroda , before getting injured. But no one talks about that ! It is easy to talk negative about someone. And those doubting my injuries can have a look at my scan reports . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
