Ducks tale : 10 batsmen out for zero in an English Club game The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Apr 27 , 2014 , 08.47PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 LONDON : In an unbelievably embarrassing performance , 10 batsmen of the Ten Wirral Cricket Club were out for ducks in a team total of three against Haslington in a Cheshire League Division III match . Chasing 109 to win in a UK Club game , Ten Wirral team scored just three runs , out of which two were extras. Only number 11 batsman , Connor Hobson managed to open his account as the first 10 batsmen departed without troubling the scorer . Ben Istead scalped six batsmen while Tom Gledhill claimed the remaining four wickets , according to a BBC report . Despite the humiliating show , it was not the worst ever performance in cricket history as Somerset club Langport were dismissed for zero against Glastonbury in a 1913 match . The lowest score in a first-class match is six , made by " The B 's " against England at the old Lord 's ground in 1810. And the lowest total in a Test match is 26 , posted by New Zealand against England in 1955 . Matt Garrett , who came in at number nine with the score at 0-7 , told BBC Radio 5 live , " It all happened in a bit of a blur really. I think I headed into the changing rooms to get my pads on when we were three down and got out to the middle just in time to take my guard when the seventh wicket fell . " The reaction in the back of your mind is , 'I think we can still do this ' but , two balls later when you 're following all your team-mates back to the clubhouse , you think perhaps it 's not your day , " he said . The cricket club later tweeted : " 1st XI lost by 105 runs today... Sadly the opposition only scored 108 ! " The club also used social media to ask former England internationals Michael Vaughan , Andrew Flintoff , Phil Tufnell and David Lloyd for some coaching , adding the hashtag # weneedit . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
