Dynasty beckons for triumphant Australia The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 30 , 2015 , 12.06PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Dark sunglasses were the order of the day for Australia 's triumphant cricket team on Monday as they paraded the World Cup trophy to hundreds of fans at a public reception after a night of heavy partying at the Melbourne Cricket Ground . With voices hoarse and complexions pasty after a few snatched hours of sleep , players grinned and sometimes grimaced as their team mates battled to communicate their elation to a relentless MC and a large media throng . " A little hungover , " Australia 's retiring one-day captain Michael Clarke said at Melbourne 's Federation Square , when asked how he felt a day after his team 's crushing seven-wicket win over New Zealand in the final . " I think I speak for everybody in that sense . " No , look , I think we 're extremely proud. The fact there was a lot of expectation and added pressure put on us at the start of the tournament being a home World Cup was something we embraced from the first ball of the tournament . " And I think the boys should be really proud of what we 've achieved. " Clarke enjoyed a fairytale finish to his one-day career , hitting a team-high score of 74 in front of a record crowd of over 93,000 and making bowling changes that led to immediate wickets . Australia have yet to name a successor but Steve Smith , who led the test team against India and enjoyed a fine World Cup with the bat , is expected to take the reins . " ( Clarke ) was a great captain. He 's been an aggressive captain on the field , sets aggressive fields. He 's got to be somebody that we 'll definitely miss , " Australia paceman Mitchell Johnson told reporters . Australia have now won four of the last five World Cups , their quarter-final loss to eventual champions India at the 2011 tournament the only interruption to their dominion over one-day cricket dating back to 1999 in England . Along with Clarke , who will continue to captain the test side , a number of seasoned players are likely to have played their last World Cups , including Johnson , all-rounder Shane Watson and wicketkeeper Brad Haddin . But Australia will be able to retain the bulk of their squad and such is their record of regeneration and innovation , they will back themselves to defend their title in England in 2019 . Left-arm seamer and player of the tournament Mitchell Starc , already a frightful prospect for most batsmen , is 25 and can only get better if his fitness allows . He will not be short for quality fast bowling company , with Josh Hazlewood , Pat Cummins and James Faulkner all under 26 , not to mention a fit James Pattinson , who missed selection for the World Cup by dint of a lack of preparation after a long battle with injury . Australia may not want for batsmen either , with David Warner , Glenn Maxwell and Smith all easily young enough for a tilt at back-to-back trophies . Though the personnel will be important , Australia 's drive to remain top of the heap will be essential as teams plot their downfall over the next four years . Opening batsman Warner laid any doubts about that quality to rest . " Our goal is to be number one in all formats , " he said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
