ECB to charge Vincent and Arif over fixing : Report The author has posted comments on this article AFP | May 22 , 2014 , 06.41PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 LONDON : The England and Wales Cricket Board are set to charge Lou Vincent and his former Sussex teammate Naved Arif with fixing the outcome of a county match , Britain 's Daily Telegraph newspaper reported on Thursday . The Telegraph said former New Zealand batsman Vincent , who has already confessed to fixing , and Arif , a Pakistani , were being charged in connection with a 40-over match between Sussex and Kent played at Hove in August 2011 . If the pair are found guilty , it would be the first proven case of the result of a county match being fixed . The Sussex-Kent match which was televised live and , which the Telegraph said attracted bets totalling more than £ 12 million ( $ 20m ) on one regulated gambling website alone , the highest total for any match of its kind in the past three years , and millions more on illegal markets in India . It emerged last week , in leaked testimony to an International Cricket Council probe , that Vincent told investigators he was approached by his fixer " NG " the day before the match in a hotel in Brighton and that he received £ 40,000 to throw the game . The Telegraph added there were suspicions at the time the match was corrupt but it was cleared by the ICC 's much-criticised anti-corruption unit , under fire for its failure to bring to book a major fixer , following an investigation . But the paper added the case was reopened in August 2012 by the ECB 's own security unit , led by former Metropolitan Police detective Chris Watts . The 32 year-old Arif was born in Pakistan and qualified as a non-overseas player for Sussex through his wife 's Danish passport. He was released by Sussex in 2012 . There is no suggestion any other player from either team was involved in the alleged fix . Sussex were cruising to victory despite Arif 's expensive bowling. He took the new ball but only bowled six overs and conceded 41 runs with two wides , an economy rate of 6.83 . In reply , Sussex looked set for a win at 76 for no wicket , chasing a target of 217 . But they lost four wickets for seven runs in four overs including that of Vincent who , batting at three , was run out for one off six balls . Arif batted at nine and scored 11 off 29 balls as Sussex were bowled out for 202 to lose by 14 runs . Arif was dropped for the next match against Middlesex and played only three more one day matches for Sussex before being released . If the charges against the pair are proven , bans issued by the ECB would apply globally because of a reciprocal agreement between all the major cricket-playing countries . The controversial Lord 's Test of 2011 led to three Pakistan players -- Salman Butt , Mohammed Asif and Mohammed Aamer -- being banned and jailed for their roles in a spot-fixing scam . Meanwhile former Essex paceman Mervyn Westfield was also jailed for his role in spot-fixing , where an incident during the match rather than the result of a game is manipulated for a betting scam , during a county match that led to a life ban for former Pakistan leg-spinner Danish Kaneria . However whether Vincent , who is now in Auckland , and Arif will face criminal charges will depend upon whether British prosecutors decide if such action is the best use of taxpayers ' money . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
