Eden win turning point in Indian cricket : VVS Laxman The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Nov 13 , 2014 , 11.10AM IST Laxman described Tiger as a visionary , who was ahead of his time. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : When a 'Very , Very Special ' person talks about a legend who was Indian cricket 's first superstar , it is time to let go and flow with the tide . VVS Laxman did just that as he took the audience down memory lane while delivering the 3rd Mansur Ali Khan 'Tiger ' Pataudi Memorial lecture , organised by the BCCI on Wednesday , before sharing his views and concerns on the modern game . Laxman , who grew up hearing about the exploits of the former India captain from his seniors , described Tiger as a visionary , who was ahead of his time. The Hyderabadi stylist was quick to emphasize on Tiger 's Hyderabad link . " From a cricketing perspective , I must say that he was the Nawab not only of Pataudi , but in my eyes , a Nawab of Hyderabad , too , " Laxman said . Highlighting the sense of Indianness that Tiger Pataudi advocated , Laxman felt it was achieved by self-belief and pride in wearing India colours. " At the start of my career with the Indian team , we did n't necessarily believe that we could compete on an even footing with some of the bigger teams , especially when we travelled overseas. " Terming India 's magnificent victory at Eden Gardens against Australia in 2001 as the turning point in the history of Indian cricket , Laxman said : " All that changed after our victory , 13 years ago at the Eden Gardens , here in Kolkata. Yes , it was achieved at home , but the manner in which we came back from the dead to defeat Australia , instilled a renewed sense of belief . " Suddenly , we felt no situation was beyond us , nothing was impossible. That if we did n't give up and that if we kept plugging away , we could do miracles. That glorious victory , and the one in Chennai in the next Test in 2001 , was a huge turning point in the history of Indian cricket. " Laxman expressed unhappiness about teams indulging in gamesmanship in the guise of professionalism these days . " I am anguished when I see needless aggression in the name of competition , foul language and ugly demonstrations on the field in the name of " making your point " or " giving it back " or " playing hard but fair " ... We should remember that as cricketers , we are role models and can easily influence the younger generation. Therefore it 's our duty to influence them in the most positive way. " Describing himself a student of the old school , Laxman came out in support of the recent clampdown on bowlers with suspect actions by the ICC. " It is not endemic to one region or one country. It becomes imperative for every coach , every state provincial unit and every cricket board to root out this problem , " Laxman said . Laxman also admitted that he was worried about the workload on contemporary cricketers as it may lead to burn-outs . " The modern-day cricketer faces the threat of a faster burnout. At any given point , international cricket of some type is being played in some corner of the world. For a cricketer , it is not possible to concentrate with the same intensity at all times. When concentration wavers , so does performance. Fitness levels may have improved , but so have the demands , " Laxman pointed out . " Cricket must not be allowed to become one-dimensional and predictable to the extent that it begins to drive spectators away. There is no joy in performing to empty galleries , " he cautioned . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
