Eight Pakistan players fined for breaking World Cup curfew The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 12 , 2015 , 05.58PM IST The players have been warned that a repeat offence will see them kicked out of the tournament. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Eight Pakistan players , including maverick former captain Shahid Afridi , have been fined for breaching a team curfew ahead of their crucial World Cup game against India , sources said on Thursday . They have also been warned that a repeat offence will see them kicked out of the tournament which starts on Saturday . " Eight of the Pakistan players , which also included former captain Shahid Afridi and opener Ahmed Shehzad , were fined 300 Australian dollars ( US $ 230 ) after they came late to their Sydney hotel on Sunday , " sources in the Pakistan team told AFP on condition of anonymity . The team management , headed by manager Naveed Cheema , a former military man , claimed the players arrived 45 minutes late after a night out . " These players went with their friends for dinner but came back late , " said a team source . The players are understood to have apologised and have promised not to repeat the offence . Team management have told the players that if such a breach was repeated they will be sent home on the first available flight . Pakistan are placed in Group B of the 14-team World Cup which starts in New Zealand and Australia from Saturday . Pakistan play their first group game against arch-rivals and title-holders India in Adelaide on Sunday . Pakistani players have a history of off-field discipline problems. Three key players -- Salman Butt , Mohammad Asif and Mohammad Aamer -- were caught in a spot-fixing scandal in England in 2010 . The trio was accused of taking money to orchestrate deliberate no-balls during the Lord 's Test . All three were banned for five years by the International Cricket Council . They , along with their agent Mazhar Majeed , were also jailed in UK . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
