End of the road for chuckers , or is there a right turn ahead ? The author has posted comments on this article How did Pragyan Ojha end up playing Test cricket if his action was n't correct in the first place ? ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : The International Cricket Council ( ICC ) whiplash on suspect bowling action has made lives of some well-established international bowlers miserable and helped set up some state-of-the-art facilities to detect suspect action . However , the process with which the issue of suspect action has been handled at the grassroot level has left a lot to be desired . Hundreds of young bowlers in India 's domestic circuit , branded 'chuckers ' overnight , have found themselves left out in the cold , not knowing if there 's a way out for them or the road has abruptly ended . ICC rule says that a bowler 's arm must not bend at the elbow beyond the set limit of 15 degrees. This law applies between the point at which the bowling arm passes above the shoulder and the point at which the ball is released . Now , while this knowledge is public to those who follow and play the game , the question is if any of this information - even in text form - is made available to children just beginning to play at any competitive level . To say that Saeed Ajmal has been banned from playing cricket at any level because his action is illegal begs a far-more worrying question : How did Ajmal end up coming this far in his career if indeed his action was in violation of the ICC rule ? Some of India 's senior bowlers - Pragyan Ojha , for instance - are now in the dock for the same reason. How did Pragyan end up playing Test cricket if his action was n't correct in the first place ? Would that now mean his 113 Test wickets and 347 First Class wickets are all tainted ? A bowler , who may have modeled his action watching Ajmal or Ojha bowl in Test matches , can only see himself as an outcast even before he 's set foot at any competitive level . " That is how deep the rot runs , " says Atul Gaikwad , a Level-3 coach from the National Cricket Academy , who 's now accomplished a PhD in chucking at the Pune University . " I 've come across cases that left me shocked , " says Atul. " Some very elite coaches had a very casual approach towards it , and mostly it was due to lack of knowledge and research. Many just did n't care , " he says . It is only recently , since the ICC began the crackdown , that the subject has been under more intense scrutiny and the BCCI too has been forced to take it more seriously . " The awareness is a lot more now than it used to be , " says Sunil Subramanium , a former First Class spinner who now tends to the spin wing at the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association Academy. " I do n't have the exact number ( of suspect bowlers ) on me but I can certainly tell you the number is far lesser this time than in the previous years , " he adds . But Subramanium 's worry , the same as Gaikwad 's , is where do these bowlers go after spending time at the corrective centre and if they continue to bowl in their respective state associations under adequate expertise ? " The skill acquisition process almost tends to begin at the scratch , " says Gaikwad . " It is often a very difficult time for young bowlers who suddenly feel frustrated because of the changed action and when they do n't end up getting as many wickets. " Yet , the fact that a former U-19 World Cup bowler from Gandhinagar has been sidelined after being branded a 'chucker ' or a Mumbai spinner who picked a bucketful of scalps last season but has got only seven so far this year hardly have a word of inspiration coming their way . While it is tough on the bowlers who learn it the hard way that being branded a 'chucker ' once is enough to destroy a career , a lot more needs to be done at the basic level of coaching to ensure a cricketer does n't end up growing in the game with false hopes . If a spinner plays a 100 Test matches and is then told his action is suspect , what is more scary ? That he 's been branded or that he played a 100 Tests before being branded or the wickets of batsmen who lost out because the bowler was being unfair ? Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
