England opt to bat again , trigger debate The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 31 , 2014 , 07.28AM IST Broad had clearly hinted that Cook would choose to bat a second time before pushing for victory. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SOUTHAMPTON : If the follow-on is no longer an option for modern-day captains , blame it on Sourav Ganguly 's bravehearts in 2001 . Had the Indian team not turned the Test match on its head at Eden Gardens 13 years ago to beat Steve Waugh 's Australia by 171 runs after being asked to follow on , more captains would have had the gall to enforce it instead of opting to bat again . India 's sensational victory was only the third time in the history of Test cricket when a side went on to win the game after being asked to follow-on . Shell-shocked Australians did n't know what had hit them and the whole world had a laugh at their expense . Yet , it is not the embarrassment of losing a match after enforcing the follow-on that prompts modern captains to shy away from asking teams to bat again after shooting them out cheaply the first time . Sourav , who had overnight become the toast of the nation after that Eden victory , feels captains are guided by the workload on their bowlers . " If follow-on is not being enforced in international cricket more often , it is because captains want to give their bowlers a rest before unleashing them on the opposition. One can hardly blame captains because most teams play with just four frontline bowlers and can not risk one of them breaking down , " said Sourav , who is one busy bee as he juggles his commentary stints on TV . The former India captain feels the decision to enforce or not to enforce the follow-on should be entirely the captain 's prerogative and felt that Alastair Cook and his bowlers may still have enough time to force a victory . Another former India captain Kapil Dev , who had done at Headingley in 1990 what MS Dhoni could not do at the Ageas Bowl on Wednesday - save the follow-on - was of the opinion that England would have been better off enforcing the follow-on . " Three hours of rest for bowlers is no big deal. They should have enforced the follow-on and put India under pressure. One good partnership can help India save the match. And what if it rains for a while on the final day ? " wondered Kapil , who had hammered Eddie Hemmings for four consecutive sixes to save the follow-on . By not enforcing the follow-on on Wednesday , Cook simply gave in to his two principal pacers - James Anderson and Stuart Broad - who have shared the bulk of the workload as well as the wickets in the series . Broad , in fact , had clearly hinted on Tuesday evening that England would prefer to bat a second time before pushing for victory . " I have n't discussed with Cooky , but it 's 100 per cent for us batting again , " Broad had said . " It takes exceptional circumstances now to enforce the follow-on , " he added . Clearly , the circumstances were not exceptional enough for Cook to push India a second time . It remains to be seen whether his safety-first tactic hurts England or his bowlers justify his decision by leveling the series here . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
