England thrash Sri Lanka , lead series 2-1 The author has posted comments on this article AFP | May 28 , 2014 , 08.59PM IST Chris Jordan ( R ) celebrates after taking the wicket of Sri Lanka 's Nuwan Kulasekara during the third One Day International ( ODI ) cricket match between England and Sri Lanka at Old Trafford. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MANCHESTER : Chris Jordan led England 's attack as they bowled out Sri Lanka for just 67 on the way to completing a crushing 10-wicket win in the third one-day international at Old Trafford on Wednesday . The Sussex paceman took a career-best five wickets for 29 runs as England , after fit-again captain Alastair Cook won the toss in overcast conditions , dismissed Sri Lanka in just 24 overs . Cook ( 30 not out ) and Ian Bell ( 41 not out ) , then made easy work of their meagre target , although left-hander Cook was dropped on 12 at square leg by Sachitra Senanayake . Bell finished the day/night match with a straight six off left-arm spinner Rangana Herath as England , now 2-1 up in this five-match series , hit back just three days after being bowled out for 99 during Sri Lanka 's 157-run win at Chester-le-Street . Wednesday 's match took just 36.1 overs in total. Kumar Sangakkara top-scored for Sri Lanka with 13 in an innings where the only other batsmen to make it into double figures were Mahela Jayawardene ( 12 ) and skipper Angelo Mathews ( 11 ) . The tourists lost their last six wickets for nine runs in six overs. Sri Lanka 's total was their third lowest at this level , following the 43 they made against South Africa at Paarl in 2012 and 55 against the West Indies at Sharjah in 1986 . It was also their lowest in England , with their previous worst in the country also coming at Old Trafford when , as a non-Test nation , they made 86 against eventual champions the West Indies at the inaugural World Cup in 1975 . Heavy cloud cover favoured England 's attack but conditions alone could not explain how Sri Lanka were bowled out on Wednesday with a mammoth 26 overs remaining . James Anderson , on his Lancashire home ground , got England going with an opening burst of two wickets for no runs in five balls , with both Tillakaratne Dilshan and Lahiru Thirimanne caught behind by his county colleague Jos Buttler . Dilshan was undone by an especially good delivery which cut back into him , Buttler taking a well-judged catch . Sangakkara was caught behind off Jordan and the Sussex star then had Dinesh Chandimal taken at short extra-cover by Bell . But it was off-spinner James Tredwell who , with his first ball , took the prize wicket of Jayawardene when the right-hander was plumb lbw on the back foot . Mathews was then caught behind off Jordan , who in his 12th match at this level was well on the way to surpassing his previous best of three for 25 in England 's series-opening 81-run win against Sri Lanka at The Oval last week . The exit of Mathews was the cue for a flurry of wickets , that included a direct hit run out by Ravi Bopara . Barbados-born Jordan , 25 , appropriately wrapped up proceedings when he had last man Lasith Malinga lbw for two . The series continues at Lord 's on Saturday before concluding at Edgbaston on June 3 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
