England thrash India by an innings & 54 runs as batsmen refuse to fight The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 10 , 2014 , 12.25PM IST MS Dhoni walks from the pitch after losing his wicket for 27 off the bowling of England 's Moeen Ali on the third day of the fourth Test at Old Trafford. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MANCHESTER : Fortune , they say , favours the brave. The weather too , it seems. With MS Dhoni 's young brigade self-destructing twice in three days , even Hurricane Bertha chose to delay its arrival here , allowing England to grab an unbeatable 2-1 lead in the five-Test series on Saturday. The fifth and final Test begins at the Oval on Independence Day . Faced with the onerous task of saving the match , India 's 'Young Millionaires ' did not even attempt to save face. Instead , they flaunted a flamboyant approach , so typical of limited-overs cricket , to bring about a quick end to the fourth Test. So pathetic was India 's display that their second innings lasted just 43 overs - 18 balls fewer than their first essay where they had been reduced to four for eight runs on a fresh pitch on Day 1 . Needing 215 runs to make England bat again , India surrendered by an innings and 54 runs with over two days to spare. The fact that England hammered out victory in three hours and 21 minutes without any help from the man who had destroyed India in the first innings , spoke volumes of about the home team 's focus and determination. Stuart Broad , who suffered a bloody nose while trying to hit a bouncer from Varun Aaron out of the ground and retired hurt , was named the Man of the Match for his heroic bowling ( 6-25 ) , was named the Man of the Match . England 's all-round display contrasted well with India 's lack of application. Dhoni 's boys looked beaten much before they went out to bat a second time. That off-spinner R Ashwin , who failed to grab a single wicket , was India 's best batsman in both innings was a telling commentary on the future stars of Indian cricket who , having accumulated fame and fortune playing slam-bang cricket , have hardly looked the part in the game 's most demanding format . The outcome of the match was never in doubt once India were bowled out for 152 in their first innings and Dhoni 's boys let England off the hook after having them struggling at 1706 on Day 2. Joe Root and Jos Buttler , who added 134 priceless runs for the seventh wicket , laid the foundation for England 's victory . It was sad that none of the Indian batsmen offered any resistance to England. Murali Vijay played half-cock to a Chris Woakes inswinger and was trapped in front and India went into tea at 33 for one. The madness unfolded after the break as India lost five wickets in 25 minutes to slide to 66/6 before you could spell Manchester. It was Anderson who triggered the devastation when he caught Gautam Gambhir 's gloves with a snorter and induced a nick from the hopelessly out-of-form Virat Kohli for the fourth time in the series . Moeen Ali then worked his magic , picking up three wickets in 16 balls to push India to the brink of disaster . Ali was lucky to have Pujara LBW with one that looked like going down the leg side but had Rahane offering a low return catch , while Jadeja fell bat-pad . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
