Evergreen Kumar Sangakkara refuses to slow down The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Mar 10 , 2015 , 09.14AM IST Kumar Sangakkara celebrates his century during the 2015 Cricket World Cup Pool A match against Australia at the Sydney Cricket Ground. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 He 's just months away from retirement and still going strong. In case you overlooked it , he is the highest run-scorer across formats in the past five years.. . The kind of numbers Kumar Sangakkara is notching up these days , it seems there will be no autumn for this cricketing patriarch from Sri Lanka. At 37 , Sanga is just days away from retiring from One-day cricket but his astonishing run of form shows no signs of slowing down - the three consecutive World Cup hundreds show he is still hungry to impress . Sangakkara will retire from Tests too in August , following a three-match series with India. Figures suggest he has been the best batsman in the world by far in the past few years. Unlike a Sachin Tendulkar , who faded out ever so gradually - or even to an extent his own teammate , Mahela Jayawardene -when Sangakkara goes he will be doing so at the peak of his powers . Over the past five years - at least since 2009 - Sangakkara has consistently defied standard notions of sporting lifespans and batting form. In Tests , he is the fifth-highest scorer of all time , only behind Tendulkar , Ponting , Kallis and Dravid. He is only the second after Tendulkar to cross 14,000 runs in ODIs. How many can recall , off hand , that Sangakkara now averages 58.66 in Tests ? Of all those who have scored at least 5,000 Test runs , only Don Bradman and Ken Barrington have a higher career batting average , and Barrington is just 0.1 ahead of Sanga. Nobody who has played Tests in almost the last half a century ( Barrington retired in 1968 ) has averaged this high with even half the runs Sanga has scored . What 's amazing is Sanga 's second wind. Since Jan 2009 , he has scored the most runs by any batsman in all formats ( Tests , ODIs and T20Is ) combined. He has nearly 4,000 runs more than the next best. In Tests , he has averaged 63.74 in this period. This year alone , he has averaged 86.62 , with 4 tons , from 12 ODIs. These are mindboggling figures for someone who was supposed to be past his prime by now. What makes it stunning is the fact that Sanga has also kept wickets at the international level since 2000 . So why was n't he talked about as much as , say , a Virat Kohli leading up to the World Cup ? Why does n't this rock of Sri Lankan cricket inspire the same fan frenzy as AB de Villiers ? Why do the Laras and Tendulkars always come first in the pecking order when we sit down to analyze the modern batting greats ? Sangakkara - disciplined , methodical and articulate like the lawyer he was training to be before cricket called - will consider this slight oversight a tribute to his temperament. After all , he is expected to score runs for his team and has always found ways to keep excelling at it . Sanga will work on his footwork or bat swing till he gets it right against a particular bowler. He has continued to hone his game for all conditions and circumstances and kept improving his overseas record as the years rolled by. He has trained his mind to tackle immense workloads and pressures day in and day out . " The best thing as a senior cricketer you can do is to hold your place in the side and pull your own weight , " Sanga said recently. It 's also true that Sri Lanka have lacked many bowlers of match-winning pedigree after the exit of Muttiah Muralitharan and Chaminda Vaas , which has sometimes taken the sheen off a monumental personal effort . The other cricketers know , of course. " He 's been the No. 1 batter in the world for a long , long time , " Michael Clarke declared the other day. Muralitharan thinks Sanga is the one bowlers should fear most . After August , Sri Lanka will feel this No. 3 batsman 's absence for years to come. Others will wonder how many runs Sangakkara could have scored if he had carried on. For the moment , though , it 's time to watch an ageing maestro give his all to keep Sri Lanka alive in the World Cup . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
