Everyone saw what happened : Mashrafe on Rohit 'no-ball' The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 19 , 2015 , 06.59PM IST Mashrafe Mortaza refused to comment anything specifically on the umpires saying everybody present saw what was happening. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Bangladesh captain Mashrafe Mortaza on Thursday expressed his displeasure at a few decisions going against his side in their 109-thrashing by India in the ICC World Cup 2015 quarterfinal match here though he did not say in so many words . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Centurion Rohit Sharma got a reprieve on individual score of 90 and team total on 196 in the 40th over bowled by Rubel Hossai when a marginal 'no-ball ' call went in favour of the Indian opener. Rohit went onto add another 47 runs in quick time to help India go past 300-run mark . Ian Gould was the umpire who adjudged Rubel 's full-toss as waist high 'no-ball ' with Rohit being holed out at deep mid-wicket boundary. However , the TV replays showed that it was a real touch-and-go situation which could have gone either way . " I do n't want to say anything about the umpiring decisions. Everybody present saw what happened. So it 's not fair on my part to comment on this , " a peeved Mashrafe said when asked about the umpire 's decision . When probed further as to whether the incident hampered the momentum of his team , Mashrafe said , " Look , a wicket during crucial juncture is always important. At that point of time , we were putting in a lot of pressure on their batsmen. And everyone saw what happened after that. " There was also a slight faux pas on the part of local organizers while playing songs of both the countries. While most of Indian songs were latest Bollywood chartbusters , the Bangladeshi songs were more nationalistic in nature and associated with their 'War of Independence' . In fact , a lot of those patriotic songs were blaring out of the sound system immediately after a Bangladesh wicket fell. Though Mashrafe did not look happy about it but refused to comment as it would have meant taking on the parent body ICC . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
