'Evolved ' Robin Uthappa eyes new role The author has posted comments on this article Arani Basu , TNN | Oct 28 , 2014 , 11.17AM IST For Robin Uthappa , every domestic match is an opportunity to bang on the doors of national selection. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : For Robin Uthappa , every domestic match is an opportunity to bang on the doors of national selection. With consistent performances with the bat for over a year now , many would have expected him to have got an India callup already . On Monday at the Ferozeshah Kotla ahead of the Duleep Trophy final , Uthappa had his wicketkeeping gloves on too , and was busy honing his skills behind the stumps. He believes doubling up as a wicketkeeper-opening batsman will better his chances of making it to the World Cup squad early next year . " Wicketkeeping and opening the batting makes a good combination for me in One-dayers. I have been doing it for Kolkata Knight Riders and I thought I should keep training. My aim is to do both successfully. I love wicketkeeping and take it very seriously , " Uthappa said on the sidelines of the South Zone training session . The runs have started coming in a heap and the 29-year-old says he has taken a cue from Virat Kohli and Suresh Raina , who have grown in stature as international batsmen . " It 's about staying true to your skills and fitting into the role your team wants. I saw what Virat and Suresh have done and even MS ( Dhoni ) for that matter. Today I understand when I am going out of my zone. I try to fulfill my role as an opener now , " said the batsman , who is high on confidence after a century in the Duleep Trophy semifinal on a seaming Lahli pitch . " Evolved " is the word that he likes to use while describing his batting. The 'gaps ' - as Uthappa likes to call them - in his batting have been addressed. He claims the premeditation in his strokeplay is under check and power-hitting is n't necessary for his style of batting . " Earlier , I did n't understand the value of my wicket as much I do now. I realized that if I could sustain my wicket then I can make a bigger impact. I have checked my problems with premeditation.I can say my batting has evolved. " Seeking out the help of Praveen Amre has also helped his batting . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
