Using his bat like a paint brush , Rohit crafted a masterpiece which put to shade most existing ODI batting records. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : A fractured finger during the second ODI against England in Cardiff forced Rohit Sharma out of the next three games. He did n't recover in time for the truncated home series against the West Indies either . The 27-year-old announced his return to fitness with a hundred for India 'A ' in a practice game against Sri Lanka , but by that time the squad for the first three ODIs against the islanders had already been announced. The earliest he could be drafted into the Team India squad was for Thursday 's fourth match of the series. And he was hungry to prove a point . " I really wanted to make it ( the comeback ) count after returning from injury , but the first 10-15 overs were difficult. I felt a little out of place as the free-flowing strokes were not coming , " Rohit said . " I had to build the innings and get stuck in as I knew that I could cover up in the latter stage of the innings , " said a beaming Rohit , admitting that fellow-opener Ajinkya Rahane 's quickfire 28 off 24 balls helped him settle down . Using his bat like a paint brush , he crafted a masterpiece which put to shade most existing ODI batting records. The 40,000-plus who had turned up at the Eden , got their money 's worth as Rohit batted the entire length of the innings before being dismissed off the last ball for a world record 264 . " Tired ? Not really... I have had a two-month break and was ready to bat another 50 overs , " he said . He was aware of Virender Sehwag 's world record score of 219 , because a teammate had pointed out after he got 209 against Australia last year that he had missed the mark by 10 runs . " But on the field today , I only realized I had broken the record after I saw my teammates stand and applaud after I reached 220 , " Rohit revealed . Obviously delighted to have made such a statement in his comeback innings , Rohit emphasized that he had a lot more to do. " If you want to play for your country for 15 or 20 years , records will happen. The expectations will be even higher from this point onwards , so I have to keep performing. " " I love playing in Kolkata , it 's one of the best places to play cricket in. People love their cricket here. Just hope I can continue to create more records and do wonders for India at the Eden , " Rohit said . Looking ahead to Australia , Rohit said , " There 's time to think and plan. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
