Extreme secrecy around BCCI 'meeting' The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Feb 3 , 2015 , 11.51AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The ruling group of the BCCI is maintaining an extreme secrecy around a proposed gathering of N Srinivasan 's loyalists in Chennai on Thursday . There is a strong speculation that both the presidential aspirants -Jagmohan Dalmiya and Rajeev Shukla -will be there , but the ruling group chose to be absolutely tightlipped about the development . " It ca n't be a secret if all the BCCI members are in the city on Thursday. But as of now , we have n't called a meeting , " a ruling group member said. However , one understands that the Srinivasan loyalists were in touch with some of the association bosses along the course of the day . There is a strong sense of anticipation in the BCCI about Srinivasan 's next course of action following the Supreme Court order which has barred him from contesting the elections till the Justice Lodha committee report is out . There is a section of officials who believe that Srinivasan still can contest the elections if India Cements transfers the shares of Chennai Super Kings , thus foregoing the commercial interests that the president-in-exile has in the IPL . But some of his close aides maintain that Indian Cements foregoing its CSK shares is not easy. " The board of directors have to meet to take a decision of this magnitude has to be taken , it has n't happened till now. The shareholders ' interest also has to be taken into consideration -it does n't happen overnight , " a source said . If the proposed meeting finally takes place , it 's likely that the future course of action will be discussed. Even though nobody was ready to reveal how things are going to shape up , the ruling group is not at all worried about the Sharad Pawar threat . There have been reports that the Maratha strongman may contest the BCCI polls , but the ruling group maintains that it would be difficult for Pawar to get a proposer and seconder from East Zone. " As of now , he is not in a position to contest. We do n't see any drastic change in the scenario , " the official added . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
