Fame , shame and a sudden death in world of cricket The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Dec 29 , 2014 , 10.05AM IST Rahane has scored close to 970 Test runs in 12 matches ( all played abroad ) since December last year while Vijay has 989 runs under his belt in the same number of matches. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 INDIA CRICKET Vijay & Rahane have given supporters a reason to cheer in a year which has otherwise been downright disappointing for Indian cricket A ROHIT RHAPSODY : Being away from cricket for over two months after fracturing his finger in England , Rohit Sharma made a grand comeback , setting the Eden Gardens alight with his scintillating strokeplay when he hammered a world record 264 in an ODI against a hapless Sri Lankan attack at Kolkata on November 13. He became the first batsman to get two double hundreds in 50-over cricket. His blistering knock came off just 225 balls with 33 fours and nine sixes . KING AT LORD 'S : India 's long overseas drought — which saw them lose 10 Tests — finally ended at Lord 's when Bhuvneshwar Kumar ( 6-82 ) wickets and Ishant Sharma ( 7-77 ) bowled India to a sensational 95-run victory. It was only the sixth Test win for India out of the 58 they have played in England. The first of which came under Ajit Wadekar at The Oval in 1971 . PARTNERS IN PLUNDER : India have n't really covered themselves in glory while playing abroad since 2011. But in Ajinkya Rahane and Murali Vijay they have unearthed gems. Rahane has scored close to 970 Test runs in 12 Test matches ( all played abroad ) since December last year while Vijay has 989 runs under his belt in the same number of matches. They 've clearly filled in a couple of big boots left vacant by the greats over the last two years . Indian players celebrate winning the second Test against England at Lord 's Cricket Ground in London on July 21 , 2014. ( Getty Images ) RECOVERY IN ENGLAND : MS Dhoni & Co. did n't have a clue how to go about playing a five Test series in England which was as good as playing an entire Ranji season. But in the ODI series that followed , they really came into their own to pocket the five-match series 3-1 . T20 TREAT IN DHAKA : India were clearly the team to beat during the T20 Worlds. They defeated Pakistan , West Indies , Bangladesh & Australia and then floored South Africa in the semifinal. But they stumbled against a hungrier and meaner Sri Lanka in the final . BALL IN WHOSE COURT ? : Indian cricket suffered in and out of the field. If the players were letting down their fans with some poor performances abroad , BCCI 's sidelined chief — N Srinivasan — was fighting tooth and nail in Supreme Court to cling on to his chair. That said we still have to hear the last word on it . CAPTAIN NO MORE COOL : MS Dhoni has had a forgettable year. Apart from the ODI win in England and the victory at Lord 's , he 's struggled as a leader to inspire his young team. India lost in South Africa , New Zealand and England. Worse still is the wall of silence he 's built around himself on contentious issues involving him . FRIENDLY FIRE : A young combustible team , aggressive to a fault , burnt it fingers badly when news seeped out of the Brisbane dressing room that Dhawan and Kohli had a huge showdown during the second Test. While Kohli did n't mince words in the dressing room , Dhoni chose to play with words like " unrest " not once but twice . PUSH COMES TO SHOVE : MS Dhoni accused England fast bowler James Anderson of pushing Ravindra Jadeja in Nottingham. Dhoni stood up for his India and Chennai Super King mate but the ICC-appointed judicial commissioner Gordon Lewis absolved Anderson due to lack of video evidence . CULLING OF SENIORS : The selectors left out World Cup 2011 heroes Yuvraj Singh , Gautam Gambhir , Virender Sehwag , Harbhajan Singh and Zaheer Khan from the probables list for the 2015 World Cup. While some argued that they were past their prime , Yuvraj has answered with a couple of tons in Ranjis . WORLD CRICKET The Phil Hughes ' tragedy saw cricket suffer its worst moment after the fixing scourge. But there were moments and occasions that stood out THE RISE AND RISE OF SMITH & WARNER : The coming of age of two youngsters was welcome news for Australia. Dishing out his typical brand of attacking cricket , Warner smashed 1096 runs in nine Tests @ 64.47 , with six hundreds to boot. Smith was n't far behind with 1132 runs in nine Tests @ 87.07 runs including five tons under his belt which inspired selectors to name him skipper . PAKISTAN 'S RESURGENCE VS OZ : Coming off a poor series in Sri Lanka and having lost their best bowler , Saeed Ajmal , due to the ICC 's chucking crackdown , Pakistan pulled off a virtual heist when they beat the Aussies for the first time in a Test series in 20 years. Leggie Yasir Shah and left-arm spinner Zulfiqar Babar took 26 wickets to leave the Aussies bamboozled . MAHELA , SANGA SIGN OFF IN STYLE : Two of the biggest pillars of Sri Lanka and world cricket - Mahela Jayawardene and Kumar Sangakkara , managed a perfect ending to their international Twenty20 career as the Islanders won the World T20 title in Bangladesh in February . LANKA 'S UPSET WIN IN ENGLAND : Sri Lanka in England , were on fire , beating the hosts in the T20 , ODI and the Test series as well. The win in the second Test at Leeds was the icing on the cake , and a fitting riposte to former England skipper Michael Vaughan 's comment that the Lankan attack was of 'county ' cricket standard . MCCULLUM 'S CLASS ACT : It can safely be said that the year was lit up by Brendon McCullum 's explosive batsmanship. The 33-year-old crossed fifty four times in 2014 , and on all the occasions , his scores were massive — 224 , 302 , 202 and 195. He started off by hammering a double and a triple hundred in consecutive Tests against the India . PHIL HUGHES ' DEATH : November 27 was easily the saddest day cricket has ever seen. A promising career met with a tragic end as talented opener Phillip Hughes lost his life to a rare injury after being struck by a bouncer during a Sheffield Shield game at the Sydney Cricket Ground. Bringing the game to a standstill . Bats and caps are left outside the stadium in a tribute to the late Phillip Hughes prior to the first day play of the first Test match between Australia and India at Adelaide Oval on December 9 , 2014. ( AFP Photo ) BAD BEHAVIOUR : Sledging the opposition players became a norm as quite a few players put up a poor example of how one should behave on a sporting field , especially with millions watching them on TV. The verbal skirmishes were examples of the receding tolerance levels of the players . WEST INDIES ' PULL OUT OF INDIA : Sport has had a history of teams or athletes pulling out of events citing security concerns. But it was a rude awakening to see the West Indies players abandoning a bilateral series over monetary issues with their board. It pinched BCCI 's pockets and robbed Indian batsmen of some easy Test runs as the West Indian players refused to budge and left after playing four ODIs only. A smarting BCCI vowed to sue WICB for Rs 400 crores — the fate of which we still have to hear . AJMAL BANNED FOR CHUCKING : Saeed Ajmal , found himself in an unwanted list of players who were banned from international cricket as the ICC uncharacteristically launched a drive to throw out bowlers with suspect actions from the game. Upon testing , the 'flex ' in Ajmal 's elbow was found to be around 42 degress-much above the permissible limit of 15 degrees. Many in Pakistan felt that Ajmal was targeted to weaken their team 's chances in the World up. Last heard , the spinner withdrew himself from the WC squad squad . KP 'S PUBLIC SPAT WITH ENGLAND PLAYERS : Having been made the scapegoat and ousted from the side after England 's whitewash in Australia , a seething Kevin Pietersen hit back by alleging in his autobiography that Graeme Swann , Stuart Broad , Matt Prior and James Anderson had introduced a 'bullying culture ' in the side. He revealed that these players would scream at the fielder once a catch would go down , and that coach Andy Flower 'ruled by fear. ' His claims were backed up by Ricky Ponting . Text By : Santosh Suri & Gaurav Gupta Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
