Feel-good factor for Indian pacers in Australia The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Nov 27 , 2014 , 11.03AM IST For the first time ever , India boasts of a pace attack that can be classified as complete . Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : All those predicting yet another whitewash for India in Australia would do well to hold on to their horses . For the first time ever , India boasts of a pace attack that can be classified as complete. Ishant Sharma , Varun Aaron , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Mohammad Shami and Umesh Yadav may not send shivers down the opposition batsmen , but as a pack , they are capable of hunting their prey quickly. Thanks to the selectors brave move of preferring talent over statistics , India now have four men who can hurl the cherry at around the 140kmph mark , with the fifth capable of swinging the ball like a banana at times . On the hard and bouncy Australian wickets , this is a boon to have for any captain , as Virat Kohli acknowledged before departing for the challenging tour. Put simply , it would allow him to 'fight fire with fire, ' and maintain strangehold on the opposition at most times , if not all . This is a far cry from the days when a pedestrian third seamer would take off all the pressure created by the first two . Having an aggressive skipper , at least in the first Test , would surely help them , and it was n't a surprise to see Yadav acknowledging this factor with Kohli recently. It means that one can expect Ishant & Co to attack at all times , rather than look to contain runs. " I do n't think we have had this kind of variety and pace in our attack before. Umesh , Aaron and Shami generate pace , while Ishant gets bounce , and 'Bhuvi ' swing , " former India seamer Ajit Agarkar , who took 27 wickets in seven Tests in Australia over two tours , told TOI on Wednesday . All five have had their ups and downs , but look to be in prime form as of now. " They 're in good shape , and bowling with discipline , which means they 're bowling in areas in which they want to. They are hitting the right areas , which is why they are snaring wickets , " said ex-India seamer Subroto Banerjee. Having lived in Australia and played there for eight years , Banerjee , who has worked closely with Umesh and Aaron for the past few years , felt India have a good 'bowling team ' in place now . " They have the extra pace to trouble batsmen on wickets which would already be fast , and they can generate movement of the wicket , which would be available in Australia , too. They are 'running in ' smoothly , which is the first part of bowling well. And they all mean 'business. ' They 're keen to produce results , " he said. " I had a chat with them before they left. I have told them that if they need any advice , I am just a call away , " he said . While form is n't much of an issue , fitness may just be. A breakdown , particularly in the case of Aaron , considering his injury-ravaged history , could be a major setback. " There is no question about his talent , but his body must last the Test , " felt Agarkar. " He had a back problem for quite sometime , but a recent surgery seems to have solved the problem for good. He is unfairly criticized for being injury-prone. When you bowl at that pace , injuries can happen , " said Banerjee . If the pacers do live up to the promise , India may just end up giving Australia a taste of their own medicine . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
