Feels good to be on top : Mohammed Shami The author has posted comments on this article Rohan Puri , TNN | Nov 7 , 2014 , 11.17AM IST Mohammed Shami , who was named in the ICC 's ODI team of the year on Wednesday , said he was pleased that his performance was recognized. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : He has played international cricket for just one and a half years and Mohammed Shami is already among the top-20 bowlers in the world. The India pacer , who was named in the ICC 's ODI team of the year on Wednesday , said he was pleased that his performance was recognized . " Every player dreams of this moment. I am proud of this achievement. I performed well this year and that has been rewarded. I am young and relatively new to the team , so such moments boost your confidence , " the 24-year-old player told TOI on Thursday on the sidelines of a Daredevils School Cup match . With 38 wickets from 16 games , Shami is the highest wicket-taker in ODIs this year and has been in top form. " It feels good to be at the top. It 's a huge thing. I was able to accomplish all my goals this year and I will try my best to keep performing for India , " said the UP bowler who plays for Bengal in the domestic circuit . Shami , who is focusing on improving his death-bowling skills , says one of the major reasons behind his success has been his approach. " I do not go by the name or stature of the batsman. I do n't think about who is facing me. I focus on taking advantage of his weakness. I have played against many top batsmen. My approach varies from situation to situation. You feel the pressure sometimes and are not able to execute your plan. Then , you just want to finish your over. It 's better to focus on what I can control. I enjoy playing all the formats. Tests give you more options to experiment. But in the end , it 's all about mindset , " he explained . Shami , who took 10 wickets in the three ODIs against the West Indies before their tour was cancelled , was forced to miss the first three ODIs of the ongoing series against Sri Lanka owing to injury. " I felt a slight discomfort in my right foot 's toe after the first ODI against West Indies at Kochi. However , now I am fully fit , " he said. India tour Australia next month where they play four Tests and an ODI tri-series involving England. Just 15 days after that , India face Pakistan in their opening match of the World Cup . " The tour of Australia is very important for us. If we manage to win that series then our confidence level will be pretty high going into the World Cup , " said Shami , who is currently ranked 16th in ODIs . And Shami does not think the tight schedule would affect the team 's performance. " We have been playing continuously for the past one year or so. The more you play , the more experience you get. Playing in Australia right before the World Cup will work in our favour , " he said. Asked if defending champions India can repeat their performance of 2011 , he said , " Our team is relatively young and we believe we can chase or defend any target. All teams are good. We do not focus on any specific opponent or compete with other teams. We focus on improving our game and playing better cricket. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
