Fickle bowling attack a concern for India The author has posted comments on this article Form is subjective and come February , Indian pacers ' real test will begin. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Had the national selection committee ordered those '30-minute delivery ' pizzas for lunch on Tuesday while they sat to pick the World Cup team , they 'd still have left the room without a meal . That 's how short the meeting went all of 20 minutes to pick a squad of 15. By the time they 'd checked out of office , Indian cricket looked set to chase the World Cup title Down Under this time rather than defend it . On one hand , they retained a strong batting order , tried and tested for over two years now. On the other , they 've made do with a weak bowling attack , run down by lack of form , fitness and fortitude . From here on the onus will most likely be on the batsmen to score more than what the bowlers concede , as has been the case for a while now . Here 's a look at the attack put in place for the tournament : Four pacers in Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Mohammad Shami , Ishant Sharma and Umesh Yadav ; three spinners in Ravichandran Ashwin , Ravindra Jadeja and Akshar Patel ; three part-time slow bowlers in Virat Kohli , Suresh Raina and Rohit Sharma ; one fast-bowling all-rounder in Stuart Binny . The last time India played an ICC tournament the Champions Trophy in England three of the above mentioned names were n't part of the team. This time , Shami has replaced R Vinay Kumar , Patel has come in for Amit Mishra and Binny has left Irfan Pathan far behind . Barring the debate whether selectors could 've considered Rishi Dhawan the 24-year-old from Himachal Pradesh who picked his fifth First Class five-wicket haul on Tuesday , the rest of the attack picked itself simply for lack of a better choice . Form is subjective and come February , their real test will begin. Fitness , though , is an area that should keep MS Dhoni concerned. Ravindra Jadeja , the Ravindra Jadeja , the skipper 's Man Friday in the shorter formats , is struggling with a shoulder injury and there are indications already that Jadeja may not be fit in time for the World Cup warm-up matches. If that 's true , it 's a huge risk the selectors have taken . Another concern for Dhoni will be to keep Bhuvneshwar , the team 's most effective medium-pacer , wrapped in cotton wool for the big tournament . Kumar missed the first two Tests in Australia because of an ankle injury and underwent lengthy physiotherapy before heading back for the last match in Sydney , where he was listless on Tuesday. He needs time to get battle ready . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
