Finch punishes England as Australia score mammoth 342/9 The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Feb 14 , 2015 , 01.21PM IST Australia 's Aaron Finch celebrates his century against England during the Pool A World Cup match at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Aaron Finch scored a glittering century to fire Australia to a near-record one-day international total of 342 for nine at the Melbourne Cricket Ground in the first innings of their World Cup opener against England on Saturday . Scorecard Spilled by Chris Woakes on the second ball he faced , opening batsman Finch blasted 135 and combined with stand-in skipper George Bailey for a 146-run partnership to help steady the co-hosts after they had slumped to 70-3 in the 11th over . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 With England putting in an abysmal fielding display , hard-hitting all-rounder Glenn Maxwell blasted 66 off 40 balls in the final overs to ensure their opponents will need to set a new record to win , with no team chasing down more than 299 at the venue . Adding irony for England after a tough day in the field , Steven Finn completed a bizarre hat-trick with the final three deliveries , removing Brad Haddin , Maxwell and Mitchell Johnson to deny Australia the MCG record of 344 scored by an ICC World XI in 2005 . Paceman Stuart Broad had earlier bowled the dangerous David Warner and had Shane Watson caught behind for a golden duck in successive balls but Steven Smith survived the hat-trick ball . Woakes removed the in-form Smith for five soon after but England released the pressure with some woeful fielding on a day of glorious sunshine . England captain Eoin Morgan sent his bowlers in after winning the toss , hoping they could extract moisture from the pitch after thunderstorms lashed Melbourne overnight and in the morning . The move appeared it might pay dividends with paceman James Anderson showing swing and movement off the seam from his first deliveries . He gave Finch all sorts of trouble and the bulky righthander flicked him straight to midwicket but Woakes put down the easy , head-high chance . Anderson was fuming again in the fifth over when Moeen Ali spilled a tougher chance , diving to his left at mid-off to put down Warner . Warner and Finch duly punished England for their profligacy , reaching 50 in 37 balls before Broad broke the partnership in the eighth over . Though pinned back for a few overs , Finch and Bailey gradually got on top and started blasting the English bowlers over their heads . Finch tickled a leg-side boundary off paceman Steven Finn to bring up his sixth one-day century and leaped into the air in celebration , with the terraces roaring their approval . More joy was to come for home fans , with Gary Ballance , replacing Ravi Bopara in the side , failing to commit to a catch in a clear mix-up with incoming fielder Broad when Bailey mishit high over deep midwicket when on 44 . Jeers rang out again when James Taylor , fielding at deep fine leg , missed a run-out chance when Finch was sent back to his crease after attempting a risky single . A half-decent throw would have had Finch out for 123 but it went high over wicketkeeper Jos Buttler 's head . Morgan showed his team mates how it was done , swooping in at short cover to run Finch out with a direct hit on the stumps and Bailey was out chopping onto his stumps off Finn . That only brought a pair of hard-hitting all-rounders to the crease in Maxwell and Mitchell Marsh combined for a quickfire 50-run partnership . Buttler put down a tough chance when Maxwell was on 42 and the man nicknamed " the Big Show " raised his 50 from 30 balls in a run of four consecutive boundaries off the hapless Finn . Wicketkeeper Haddin came in to score his 3,000th run in ODIs after Marsh was dismissed for 23 . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
