Fire & Ice : Virat and Ajinkya double the energy The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Dec 29 , 2014 , 10.41AM IST Indian batsman Virat Kohli ( right ) celebrates after scoring a century next to Ajinkya Rahane during the third day of the third Test against Australia at the MCG in Melbourne. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Virat Kohli bats as he talks and leads his life. There are no contradictions here : he is loud , cocky , audacious and nothing if not bold. He knows what he wants and has a go at it. The in-your-face manner and insouciance can be a turn-off at times. Or it can be infectious , as Ajinka Rahane discovered out in the middle . Rahane with bat in hand is quite unrecognizable from the polite-to-a-fault , mild-mannered Rahane off the field. There 's a sort of Clark Kent-Superman schism operating here which is difficult to fathom , unless you look at the faraway eyes. They give away the grim determination. His teammates call him 'Jinx' . The two fed off each other in Sunday 's epic stand , India 's highest outside Asia in the last 10 years. Even Kohli was surprised by Rahane 's belligerence at times , though Rahane helped him keep calm on occasions as the two set about " doubling the energy " , as Kohli said at the end of the day 's play . " Everybody knows Ajinkya is a quiet person , but it is great fun to play with him because he listens to you and responds to you. And he enjoys playing with me. It was great that whatever I said to him , he also felt the same. When you are feeling positive , and the other person is positive too , it doubles the energy. " Both Rahane and Kohli were chasing big hundreds. Rahane , in fact , hit one of his best shots right after breaching the three-figure mark , leaning forward and cover driving Watson. " I was criticized for not getting big hundreds. Today I got a good feel of building up a good hundred , so did Jinx. Next time if I am in this situation again , I will want to convert it into a double hundred , " said Kohli . Unlike most batsmen , Kohli said he does n't like setting small targets in the middle. " You ca n't do that in Test cricket. You do n't know how long you 're going to bat. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
