Fletcher will be coach till 2015 World Cup : Dhoni The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Aug 25 , 2014 , 10.38AM IST Dhoni asserted that Fletcher was still the 'boss ' despite the team witnessing a major reshuffle of the support staff. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : India coach Duncan Fletcher 's role has come into sharp focus in the wake of India 's shambolic performance in the recent Test series in England with speculations abounding about his future with the team . However , on Sunday , speaking on the eve of the first ODI against England , captain MS Dhoni made it clear that the Zimbabwean would continue in his role , at least till the 2015 World Cup . In fact , according to reports coming from Bristol , Dhoni asserted that Fletcher was still the 'boss ' despite the team witnessing a major reshuffle of the support staff with bowling coach Joe Dawes and fielding consultant Trevor Penney forced to go on a break and the appointment of Ravi Shastri as the team director . " He ( Fletcher ) will lead us into the World Cup , " said Dhoni . Agencies quoted Dhoni as saying , " He is still the boss. We have Ravi Shastri who will look into everything , but Fletcher is the boss. It 's not as if his powers or his position have been curtailed. I do n't know what you feel from the outside , but operations still remain the same. " There was an impression that the coaching team would be reporting to Shastri but from what Dhoni said it seems nothing of that sort is going to happen. " Ravi is here to oversee the operations from the outside , what he feels and everything else. It 's good to have him. He is a very proud ( former ) Indian cricketer , and at the same time , very positive. It is obviously good to have him. He also speaks the same language and can interact a lot with the players. Same is the case with other support staff. " Dhoni did n't seem happy with the treatment meted out to Penney and Dawes . " It 's a bit tough on Trevor ( Penney ) and Joe ( Dawes ) , especially when fielders drop catches and the coach has to miss the series. But let 's hope for the best. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
