Focus on Decision Review System , yet again The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Dec 18 , 2014 , 10.41AM IST Pujara swayed away from a Josh Hazlewood delivery and instinctively moved his gloves to protect his face , giving umpire Ian Gould the impression that the batsman had gloved the ball. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE : India 's unwillingness to use the Decision Review System ( DRS ) was again in focus when Cheteshwar Pujara was given out caught behind when the ball had brushed the grill of his helmet. The incident even sparked a war of words on social media on Wednesday . The team itself is n't too bothered about the issue , though. India have made their stand clear on DRS use and come to terms with the fact that some decisions might not go their way . Pujara swayed away from a Josh Hazlewood delivery and instinctively moved his gloves to protect his face , giving umpire Ian Gould the impression that the batsman had gloved the ball. Proponents of the system immediately rushed to insinuate some pro-DRS comments from the Indian camp , and it was left to a tired Murali Vijay at the end of the day 's okay to fend off the aggressive questions. " Do n't you think such howlers could be avoided if India used DRS " ? Vijay said , " No. That 's just your opinion. " " Yes , they can , " someone said. " That 's your opinion , not my opinion. In my opinion it was a bad decision.Humans are standing out there so obviously mistakes do happen , " said Vijay . It appears India 's reluctance to use the DRS is a contentious topic in both Australia and England. Commentators on both TV and radio here have also played up the absence of DRS in this series , particularly after the Adelaide turner offered several instances when DRS could have swung matters one way or another . " It does n't matter if you agree with it or not , what does matter is whether everybody should play by the same rules , " Shane Warne had said a few days back. Rahul Dravid had a different opinion , saying , " Once you have a made a commitment to play without DRS you should n't complain about it. To be fair to the umpires , they do get most of it right. " India 's reluctance to use the system is on two counts : one , that the system is not fool-proof and prone to technician error.That has been borne out often , most recently just last week when Hawkeye officials admitted to an error in giving Pakistan opener Shan Masood out against New Zealand in Dubai. The second reason is that the Indians feel limiting the number of appeals forces teams to use DRS as a tactical tool , instead of maintaining the tech as a means to eliminate howlers . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
