'For Men in Blue , team goals bigger than personal marks' The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 26 , 2015 , 10.47AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 PERTH : A day after Chris Gayle set a new benchmark in the World Cup , the focus at WACA on Wednesday was on the Indian players in general and Rohit Sharma , a two-time double centurion in the ODIs , in particular . Naturally , everybody was eager to know the team 's reaction after the mercurial West Indian became the first to hit a double century in World Cup. The Indians , till Tuesday , were the only country whose batsmen had recorded double centuries in ODIs . Their hegemony broken , what will be their response ? The Indian team management is clear about its priorities , saying the team was focused on the ultimate goal , the defence of the World Cup title . " Individual records are never a priority for us. The team goals are. We are focused on the job on hand and will not be distracted by achievements of others. Yes , he played a great innings and deserves all the accolades. Yes , if records come our way while striving to achieve the objectives of the team , they will be welcomed and celebrated , " a team official said . In the first two matches , India have had a century apiece by Virat Kohli ( 107 ) and Shikhar Dhawan ( 137 ) in high-octane matches played at two of the biggest grounds in Australia . " It is not easy to hit fours and sixes as easily as at some of the smaller grounds. Besides the quality of the bowling also matters . We were up against Pakistan in Adelaide and South Africa at MCG who are tough opponents even on their lean days , " he said . On Saturday , India will take on the United Arab Emirates , their first match against a non-Test playing team , at a venue which has the reputation of having one of the fastest pitches in the world . The boundaries are also long , especially square of the wicket. Under the circumstances , it will be a great challenge for an Indian to come anywhere near a double century . " Yes , the conditions , the size of the ground and the quality of the opposition matter a lot. But nobody goes into a match thinking of records. If they come by in course of your effort to do well for the team , it would be a bonus. Like Gayle 's effort has put the team on course after a stuttering start. " All of India 's four double centuries by Sachin , Sehwag and Sharma ( twice ) have come at home , where pitches are featherbeds and the outfields small , where hitting fours and sixes is much easier than in Australia . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
