For one day , Test cricket is king The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Dec 27 , 2014 , 11.36AM IST A general view as the crowd performs the mexican wave during Day one of the third Test match between Australia and India at Melbourne Cricket Ground on in Melbourne. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Welcome to the MCG on Boxing Day , when Test cricket is born again every year. Having survived another long year of premature elegies , hand-wringing and much spite , this is the venue - and the date - when five-day cricket can be its usual immutable self for a day. And feel good about the fact . It 's there in all the " oh-goaway-from-here " looks you get when you go around asking whether Test cricket can still cut it. It 's there in the numbers in the stands : 69,993 . That 's a staggering figure for a Test match these days , and tends to get lost in the festivities. But at the cavernous 'G ' there 's always room for more. And they 're game for a contest , even if it 's not the gladiatorial type . The day 's play was interesting but subtle , like good Test cricket often is. At the Great Southern Stand , where the beer flowed and Aussie flags waved and the chants were often unmentionable , no one was complaining about how boring Test cricket is. Or that it takes five days to finish. Or that no one might win in the end . The cricket was part of the festivities , part of the fabric of a Boxing Day tradition which is as ingrained as Christmas itself . The success of the Boxing Day Test here in Melbourne makes one wonder why those in the BCCI have n't woken up to borrowing the idea in some way. Just like the BCCI has astutely taken the One-day game into the hinterland and made the IPL a fun-filled summer night phenomenon , it needs to revolve Tests around the major venues in the metros on specific dates in the cricket calendar . First off , it must stop the rotation of Test venues and have only six or seven designated Test centres. Then it must assign specific dates to these Tests , so the cricket calendar will revolve around these " events " , which will help awaken dormant Test fanatics , bringing the format to band adding to the character of many historic grounds . Test attendances in India are dwindling because we have n't treated the format , and our spectators , with care. When 70,000 people leave the MCG , it takes minutes. In India , it is a nightmare. It 's a simple enough thought , sparking a tradition , but it will take effort and patronage. And maybe one day , just like the Aussies , we 'll know tradition can be fun too . At the MCG , for 90 overs every year , there is no pressure on Test cricket to climb out of those boring overalls and switch to a pair of shorts. To stop humming that Tull tune and start bobbing to Tiesto . At the 'G ' , for one day , Test cricket sets all the trends . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
