Gabba ton gave me a lot of confidence : Vijay The author has posted comments on this article Prasad RS , TNN | Jan 20 , 2015 , 09.42PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : With 482 runs from eight outings in the recently-concluded four-Test series against Australia , India 's Murali Vijay showed the wherewithal , maturity and temperament needed to excel in the oldest format of the game . Vijay , who is set to take the field for Tamil Nadu in their Ranji Trophy Group 'A ' clash against Mumbai here , spoke on his Australia experience and preparation he did before the series . Excerpts : Before you left for Australia , what were the areas that you focused on ? It was all about of going there with a positive intent. Australia is a great place to play cricket. Once you look to score , and live in the moment — runs are bound to come. The conditions were demanding there and the century ( 144 ) I scored at the Gabba gave me a lot of satisfaction . Did you feel let down with the way bowlers bled runs despite the batsmen coming good during the series ? I think the bowlers gave it their all , and that was the most pleasing aspect. In patches we failed to seize the moment. Bowlers did produce chances , and it also did n't help that we dropped a few chances . Was Mitchell Johnson the toughest to score of against ? I actually found Ryan Harris more difficult to score runs against. He was very consistent and was n't giving away runs easily . Describe your camaraderie with Virat Kohli ( 692 runs in the series ) .. . We have been playing together for sometime now , and understand each other well. He was in top form , and hopefully he does well in the ODIs , and in the upcoming World Cup too . Talking about the World Cup , were you disappointed at being left out of the India squad ? All I can do at this point of time is to think of the Ranji match ahead and concentrate on it. My job is to add value to the Tamil Nadu team and help them win . Staying with the World Cup , what was your first memory of the quadrennial event ? I remember the 1992 World Cup since I really liked the jerseys as they were quite attractive. I used to wake up early to see the matches and recall the Wasim Akram spell in the final against England. I remember Sachin Tendulkar 's knock against Pakistan in that edition of the World Cup . What was your reaction to MS Dhoni calling it a day from Tests ? I felt bad , because I have been inspired by him as a player. I learnt a lot from him in the Indian team as well as in the Chennai Super Kings. He led the team by example , and that 's what made him a great leader . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
