Gary gives England team the right balance The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 29 , 2014 , 05.52AM IST The sky is the limit for Ballance , who many say , has restored the equilibrium of the England side after Trott 's untimely pull-out. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SOUTHAMPTON : For England , Gary Ballance could not have happened at a better time. With Jonathan Trott out of the frame with depressions , England needed an adequate replacement at number three . The 24-year-old left-hander , who completed his third century in six Tests on Sunday , is proving to be just the right one . England skipper Alastair Cook was pleased as a punch with the consistency of his young one-drop . " It looks like he bats the same way in every innings. He just adjusts to the conditions and finds his way. He is very impressive and now that he has found his feet , he looks a mighty fine player , " said Cook , while describing Ballance 's innings on Sunday . " It was a big decision when we asked him to bat at No. 3 because he bats at No. 5 at Yorkshire. But he is a really a good judge at leaving balls outside his off-stump , " Cook added . Ballance , who grew up on his father 's tobacco farm , played at the junior level in Zimbabwe before moving to England on a school scholarship . Nephew of former Zimbabwe captain Dave Houghton , Ballance joined Yorkshire after a two-year stint with Derbyshire. It was baptism by fire for Ballance on his Test debut against Australia in Sydney earlier this year . To his credit the youngster did not flinch while facing up to Mitchell Johnson 's chin music. He made only 18 but hung around for 91 minutes . He was promoted to No 3 at Lord 's last month against Sri Lanka and he responded with a fine hundred before making it two-on-two at the 'home of cricket ' against India last week . The sky is the limit for Ballance , who many say , has restored the equilibrium of the England side after Trott 's untimely pull-out . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
