Gautam Gambhir recalled for England tour The author has posted comments on this article Ehtesham Hasan , TNN | May 29 , 2014 , 10.15AM IST Gambhir 's inclusion as the third opener will keep regular openers - M Vijay and Shikhar Dhawan - on their toes. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Having learnt a bitter lesson in 2011 , the BCCI 's five-member selection committee , which met on Wednesday , deliberated for close to two hours before finalising a jumbo 18-member squad for the five-Test series against England . Incidentally , India will play just their second five-Test series in England ( after 1959 ) and the decision to pick a squad as big as this was understandable given the torrid time the team went through during the last tour which they ended up losing 4-0 due to injuries and loss of form to key players . The selectors , however , have played safe by sticking with most players who were part of the defeats suffered at the hands of South Africa and New Zealand . The only surprising bit to have come out of the marathon meeting was the recall handed to Gautam Gambhir for the England tour and the selection of all-rounder Stuart Binny in the Test squad . Binny 's inclusion , completely unexpected , is being seen as a contentious one for two reasons . First , there are many who feel that Himachal Pradesh all-rounder Rishi Dhawan should have got a look in ahead of Binny. Dhawan dished out consistent all-round performances during the Ranji Trophy - scoring 435 runs @ 40 and emerged as the highest wicket-taker in the season with 49 wickets @ 20 , which included six five wicket hauls in eight games . Secondly , Binny is the son of former India all-rounder Roger , who represents the South Zone on the selection panel and that is why the decision has raised quite a few eyebrows . The 32-year-old Gambhir , who was ignored for close to two years , had last played a Test against England at Nagpur in 2012. Since then he has been slogging away in domestic cricket and even played for India A . For someone who has 54 Tests under his belt , the left-hander not only brings experience but even gumption at the top of the order , which was sorely missed in the last two overseas series . Gambhir 's inclusion as the third opener will keep regular openers - M Vijay and Shikhar Dhawan - on their toes . The selectors have also recalled pacer Pankaj Singh . The Rajasthan bowler , who was picked for the 2007-08 tour of Australia , did n't get to play a game and has been overlooked since then despite performing consistently over the years . The team features seven quicks ( including Binny ) and two spinners in R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja. The idea behind packing the side with so many pacers , according to sources , was keeping in mind India 's struggles during the last tour . " Zaheer Khan had limped out on day one of the series and Dhoni was forced to bowl. Also , there is an issue of net bowlers when we tour abroad and with India playing five Tests , we do n't want our regular bowlers to bowl extensively in the nets and tire out , " the source said . Barring Dhoni , Ishant and Gambhir , none of the others have played Tests in England . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
