Gavaskar better than Tendulkar : Spin greats The author has posted comments on this article Archiman Bhaduri , TNN | Nov 13 , 2014 , 11.21AM IST Bedi , Prasanna and Chandrasekhar agreed that Gavaskar was a better batsman than Tendulkar. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : It was yesterday once more as spin legends Bishan Singh Bedi , Erapalli Prasanna and BS Chandrasekhar went down memory lane during a chat show organized to commemorate 150 years of Eden Gardens on Wednesday . The three had their own tales to narrate but they all picked Gary Sobers as the greatest batsman they had bowled to . " Although England 's Tom Graveney was perhaps technically the most perfect batsman , Sir Garfield Sobers was simply the best , " Prasanna said . As for Chandrasekhar , he " always found England 's Ken Barrington very difficult to dismiss but Sobers will always remain the greatest. " Bedi summed it up well. " See players like Sobers and Bradman are in a different league. They are just class apart . We wo n't see another Sobers or Bradman in the game , " he said . And all three agreed that Sunil Gavaskar was a better batsman than Sachin Tendulkar . " Sunny would play us in the nets and go out and face the fierce West Indian and Australian pace attack without even a helmet , " Prasanna said . " For us the original Little Master is the best. He was a complete batsman , " Bedi added . Talking about Indian captains , Bedi was all praise for Mansur Ali Khan 'Tiger ' Pataudi . " Tiger was at least 100 years ahead of his time. He was a very proud Indian and he inculcated an Indianness in the dressing room. As captain , Tiger was always very positive and believed there was no harm in losing while going for victory. " Quite inevitably , Sourav Ganguly - another very successful Indian captain - came into the discussion. Bedi , who disapproved the exaggerated display of on-field emotions by modern cricketers , felt Ganguly 's act of taking off his shirt after the NatWest Trophy win at Lord 's in 2002 was 'not gentlemanly' . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
