Gayle entertains with first double ton , silences critics The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Feb 25 , 2015 , 09.11AM IST Chris Gayle got to his half-century off 51 balls , his hundred off 105 balls and the next hundred off 33 balls. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 No other leading batsman epitomizes his team 's strengths and weaknesses to the ex tent Chris Gayle does. Arguably the last great West Indies cricket legend still standing , Gayle can blow hot or cold , be a rumswigging , reggae-blasting , party-loving , hashtag-triggering hedonist or a serial rebel with a cause. It depends on the day. He is both a T20 mercenary who deals in flair and a hardcore team man who eschews the flamboyance for 10-hour vigils in Test cricket . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Which Chris Gayle you will run into depends entirely on the Jamaican 's disposition - and lately , to an extent , his back and hamstring - and whether you are feeding him deliveries in the zone so he can plant that back foot and lift you over long on or over the straight boundary. Zimbabwe 's bowlers made that mistake on Tuesday . Gayle 's slow starts offer the opposition all the comfort of being in the windless eye of an impending hurricane. Once the batsman had survived that early period - no thanks to DRS - and signalled his intentions , Zimbabwe lost their bearings. Gayle got to his half-century off 51 balls , his hundred off 105 balls and the next hundred off 33 balls. When it finally came , the double century appeared to have all the jaw-clenching , muscle tightening suspense of an evening stroll through Kingston 's safer quarters . It 's also five years to the day that Sachin Tendulkar scored the first ODI double , and five of these knocks have come in five years now. There could be more in the offing in this tournament itself , with the new rules stipulating only a maximum of four fielders outside the circle. But this one is special because Gayle has ended the wait - every once in a while he will explode with a knock of such gargantuan proportions , such anarchic frenzy and frightening ease that you can never write him off. The bowling unravels to merely aid the process . Importantly , the ability is never in question. Not for Gayle the usual batting parameter of being in and out of form. Now the only batsman to have two triple centuries in Tests , a double in ODIs and a century in T20Is , Gayle had gone 19 months and a total of 20 innings without an ODI century before Tuesday . The spur came through Windies board president Dave Cameron 's below-the-belt retweet of a fan 's response during the Pakistan game that " Gayle...ca n't buy a run. Let 's give him a retirement package " . Gayle admitted , rather out of character , that he was under pressure to score. It was also a reminder that he faces a disciplinary hearing after the World Cup - for ridiculing WICB 's selection policies - and lacks a central contract in a career marked by run-ins with his country 's cricketing lawmakers . But every time Gayle fires , it 's a throwback to the magic we all wish West Indies still had. Modern cricket is all about endless hours of planning , of technical discussions , of motivational lectures and diet and fitness regimes. These are not the things which made Gayle or the West Indies. For him , batting is about the feel , the mood , the flair and the gift. It 's what makes him feared , different from the rest , characteristic . These are the things the modern West Indies bring to the table too , and both magic and inconsistency frame their lexicon in equal parts. You ca n't have one without the other but you need them firing for cricket 's sake . Gayle is representative of his team 's highs and lows to a large extent , but he is also , undoubtedly , the most gifted West Indies cricketer of his generation . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
