Gayle savages Zimbabwe with first World Cup double century The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Feb 24 , 2015 , 12.57PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CANBERRA : Chris Gayle rediscovered his mojo in spectacular fashion with the highest individual innings in a World Cup match on Tuesday , his 215 helping West Indies to 372 for two in their Pool B clash against Zimbabwe . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The 35-year-old was dismissed with the last ball of the innings trying for a 17th six but only succeeding in holing out in the deep . Gayle 's determination to end his poor run of recent form meant the first hundred run in his innings was by no means the most fluent of his 22 one-day international centuries . Once he reached the milestone with the first ball of the batting powerplay , however , he punished the Zimbabwean bowlers as only he can , smashing the ball around the ground almost at will . He had brought up his 50 and century with singles but it was a four off Tendai Chatara that he reached the historic double century in the 46th over , Gayle becoming the first non-Indian to achieve the feat . Samuels , meanwhile , was caution personified for most of his 156-ball innings until finally cutting loose as the Zimbabwean bowlers wilted in the face of the flogging they were receiving from Gayle . The pair put on 152 runs in the last 10 overs to take the match almost certainly out of reach of their African opponents . Despite the impressive 150-run victory over Pakistan at the weekend that rebooted the West Indies campaign after their embarrassing defeat to Ireland , the failure of the top order to fire had been of a concern in the Caribbean . It looked like remaining so after a first over in which Dwayne Smith departed for a duck on the second ball and Gayle could easily have followed him back to the dressing room . Smith was clean bowled by a Tinashe Panyangara delivery that nipped in late and the Zimbabwean paceman was not satisfied when his loud appeal for leg before against Gayle was turned down . Zimbabwe referred of the decision to the third umpire and technology showed the ball would have just cleared the bails by a matter of centimetres . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
