George Bailey suspended for one ODI The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Jan 19 , 2015 , 04.00PM IST George Bailey will not play Australia 's next ODI against England in Hobart on Friday. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 DUBAI : Australia captain George Bailey on Monday was suspended for one ODI and fined 20 percent of his match fee while his players were fined 10 percent of their match fees for maintaining a slow over-rate during their match against India at the Melbourne Cricket Ground Sunday . Match referee Andy Pycroft imposed the suspension on Bailey after Australia were ruled to be one over short of their target at the end of the match after time allowances were taken into consideration . As Bailey had previously been found guilty of a minor over rate offence in ODIs in the last one year , this offence constituted his second minor over rate offence for the purposes of the ICC Code of Conduct. Bailey pleaded guilty and accepted the proposed sanction so there was no need for a formal hearing . As such , Bailey will not play Australia 's next ODI against England in Hobart Friday . In another incident , opening batsman David Warner has been fined 50 percent of his match fee after committing a Level 1 breach of the ICC Code of Conduct . Warner admitted to a breach of Article 2.1.8 of the ICC Code of Conduct for Players and Player Support Personnel which provides that an offence will be committed where a player engages in " A... conduct that either : ( a ) is contrary to the spirit of the game ; or ( b ) brings the game into disrepute " . The incident happened on the last ball of the 22nd over when Warner approached India batsman Rohit Sharma and confronted him aggressively after the batsmen had taken a run from an overthrow. The Australian had to be withdrawn from the confrontation by both the umpires . Warner accepted the offence and the proposed sanction and a hearing was not required. Both the charges were laid by umpires Kumar Dharmasena and John Ward , third umpire Mick Martell and fourth official Simon Fry . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
