Great expectations from Cook , Dhoni The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 26 , 2014 , 05.50AM IST MS Dhoni is a simple soul who shuns complexities when it comes to life and cricket. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SOUTHAMPTON : When celebrated Victorian author Charles Dickens , who was born in nearby Portsmouth , wrote his 1861 classic Great Expectations , he certainly did n't have English cricket in mind. Yet , the landmark novel , in which Dickens explored the relationship between society and man through the personal growth and development of Pip , an orphan , bears an uncanny resemblance to the current state of English cricket , which seems a little lost at the crossroads of change . Skipper Alastair Cook , who enjoys the England and Wales Cricket Board 's ( ECB ) full backing , is no orphan but , at 29 , finds himself as the father figure in an England side clearly in transition. Under normal circumstances Cook might even have relished the additional responsibility of shepherding the lambs , but with the shepherd himself looking a trifle lost , expecting great things from England in the third Test at the Ageas Bowl would be somewhat presumptuous . Yet , England must find a way to stop India from making further inroads into a series that is poised precariously. Cook , hanging on to his job by a proverbial thread , knows it will be the end of the road for him if England lose. Unlike Cook , Mahendra Singh Dhoni has fewer issues to tackle before the " Battle of the Bowl " gets under way on Sunday. Compared to Cook , Dhoni has a more settled side. His young brigade may be relatively inexperienced in terms of not having previously played in English conditions , but with most of them having played plenty of limited-overs cricket , they are familiar with the dressing room environment and well aware of what the team management wants . Dhoni is a simple soul who shuns complexities when it comes to life and cricket. His simple solution to plugging the gap on the leg side behind square by standing behind to Ravindra Jadeja at Lord 's left many pundits befuddled. The jury 's still out on whether it would have actually worked , but for someone who has supreme belief in his own ability , Dhoni may not be averse to trying it again. England 's only change will be young Jos Buttler , who steps into the shoes of Matt Prior . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
