Gurinder Sandhu becomes 1st India-origin cricketer to play for Australia The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 19 , 2015 , 09.42AM IST Australia 's Gurinder Sandhu ( L ) celebrates with teammate David Warner after dismissing Ajinkya Rahane during their ODI match at the MCG in Melbourne. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : When Iqbal Singh Sandhu migrated to Australia from Punjab in 1980s , little did the Sydney taxi driver expect that one day his son would play bigtime cricket for Australia . Gurinder Sandhu , born in Blacktown , New South Wales , became the first Indian-origin player to represent Australia when he made his ODI debut against India at the MCG on Sunday . " When I was growing up , I loved watching Sachin Tendulkar bat but Glenn McGrath was my real idol. I 'm so happy I 'm getting the chance to play for Australia , " Gurinder was reported as saying . " My dad is from Punjab and he came to Australia looking for a better life. My family is really proud of me and my extended family in India has been really supportive. " When Gurinder represented Australia in the under-19 World Cup in 2012 , he had said that he was living a cricket dream and his ultimate goal was to represent the senior team. Within two years he realized an even bigger dream when he got the opportunity to play for the senior team and his eighth delivery on international debut got him his first wicket in the form of Ajinkya Rahane . One could term his effort in the match as average and he undoubtedly has a long way to go before he can make an impact on the international stage. But he has shown the way to children of emigrant Asian parents , that they too can realize their dreams . Gurinder has become the first Australia-born Indian-origin cricketer to play for the country in contrast to batsman Usman Khawaja who was the first Pakistan-born cricketer to play for Australia when he made his Test debut against England in Sydney in January last year . As early as in 2001 , Lisa Sthalekar of Maharashtrian heritage , was the first cricketer of Indian-origin woman to represent Australia when she made her debut in a one-dayer against England . Gurinder and Khawaja have shown the way and he expects players of many nationalities to follow suit. " I 've played with and against a lot of cricketers from different backgrounds in the grade and youth cricket , " Gurinder had said when he was signed by T20 Big Bash franchise Sydney Thunder a couple of years ago . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
