Haryana to implement Sachin Tendulkar 's 15-a-side suggestion The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Sep 21 , 2014 , 11.03AM IST Tendulkar had pointed out how there is every chance of a talented kid being left out of a key game despite having travelled all the way from a far-flung area. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : After the defection of its players and coaches to other teams , it seems Mumbai cricket will now see even its ideas being used by other associations for their benefit . A day after TOI reported that the MCA had rejected cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar 's idea of having inter-school and inter-college games featuring 15 players in each side , the paper has learnt that the Haryana Cricket Association ( HCA ) is all set to implement this novel concept at its inter-district U-14 tournament next week . According to sources , Sachin , while playing his final First Class game at Lahli last November , discussed this idea with HCA president and current BCCI treasurer Anirudh Chaudhary , who then decided to give it a try . " I quite liked the idea , because it means that we will get to see more players in 'match conditions ' at the junior level. This translates into a wider pool of cricketers to choose from when we select our state U-16 team , " Chaudhary told TOI on Saturday . " Also , at the U-14 and U-16 level , we can still experiment , because beyond it , we will have to go by the BCCI rules while conducting tournaments. And we have received a fabulous response to the idea , " he added . Sources close to Tendulkar said that the maestro was " passionate about the idea " and was " still positive about the MCA considering it. " Apart from throwing up a larger talent pool , this concept was essentially mooted by Tendulkar to give much needed opportunities to a budding cricketer , who may be left out of the XI due to various reasons. A spinner or a batsman , for example , may not get to play if the pitch aids seam bowling . " In a 'normal ' game , you may get two pacers. In this case , you may get to see as many as five seamers in action , " Chaudhary observed . During his felicitation function by the MCA in December last year , Tendulkar had pointed out how there is every chance of a talented kid being left out of a key game despite having travelled all the way from a far-flung area and not getting another chance for the rest of the year . Interestingly , the Indian team employs Tendulkar 's idea while playing tour games. While it results in the match losing its First Class or List 'A ' status , it ensures maximum outing for bowlers and batsmen in the squad , which helps them to be better-prepared for the series . In 2005 , the International Cricket Council ( ICC ) , had in fact , introduced the 'Super Sub ' rule in ODIs , which was based on similar lines. Both the teams allowed an extra player each before the toss. The ICC , however , abandoned the experiment after 10 months . Meanwhile , the HCA has decided to implement another novel idea for the U-14 tournament. In what must surely be a first of its kind for a competition of this level , it organised a 'central age verification ' test , conducted by 'independent ' medical experts , according to the 'TW3 method ' - which involves the latest bone-testing technology to verify the exact age of a cricketer-on all the 380 junior players taking part in the tournament . The HCA decided to make the players undergo these tests , which are normally conducted at the inter-state level , in a genuine attempt to eradicate age-fraud . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
