Has Murali Vijay passed the 'Test ' for a World Cup berth ? The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Jan 2 , 2015 , 11.03AM IST Murali Vijay averages merely 19.46 in 14 ODIs that he has played so far. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : He averages merely 19.46 in 14 ODIs that he has played so far. During the IPL earlier this year , he had just 207 runs to show for his efforts in 11 matches @ 18.81 as his team Delhi Daredevils finished last in the tournament. Therefore , it is a huge irony that Murali Vijay , an explosive limited overs player when he began his career , has actually put up a genuine case for himself for selection in India 's World Cup team through a string of exemplary performances in Test cricket . So impressive has been this elegant opener 's consistency across continents in the game 's longest format , that when the selectors sit down on January 6 here to finalise the 15 players , they will find it difficult to ignore his claim for a reserve opener in that list . Check this out : In the past couple of years , Vijay has accumulated 1499 runs in 18 Tests @ 45.42 , with four hundreds under his belt. Playing mostly in tough overseas conditions in this period , India have discovered a rare commodity - an opener who can be relied upon to give a sound start to the team regardless of the wicket or the quality of the attack. Be it the 97 at Durban , 146 at Trent Bridge , 95 at Lord 's ( a match-winning effort ) , 99 at Adelaide , 144 at Brisbane or 68 at MCG , his courageous knocks have been a silver lining in an otherwise disappointing Indian performance overseas. During this phase , the Tamil Nadu batsman has handled the pace of Dale Steyn and Mitchell Johnson , and the swing of James Anderson & Stuart Broad with remarkable assurance . In the on-going series against Australia , Vijay has scored 402 runs @ 67.00 in three Tests so far. Since the World Cup would be held Down Under too , the temptation to include a batsman who has cracked the art of scoring runs on these wickets will not be misplaced . Three former chief selectors TOI spoke to , batted for Vijay 's inclusion in India 's World Cup team. " He is in fantastic form. He has performed well in all the conditions and has been one of our best players in the past couple of years. He is technically correct and looks solid at the crease , " said former India skipper Dilip Vengsarkar . " We must give him another chance to resuscitate his ODI career. I am sure he will prove his mettle. He will shine , " said ex-India opener Kris Srikkanth. " A player who does well in Test cricket will do well in any format , " felt former stumper Kiran More . The 30-year-old Tamil Nadu batsman is n't a liability on the field either . Former India opener WV Raman gave another reason why Vijay must make the cut. " Thanks to the conditions in Australia and New Zealand , this World Cup wo n't be about going 'bang bang ' from ball one. We need a solid opener like him there , who can play the anchor 's role to complement our middle-order , which is full of stroke-players , " he reasoned . It is a move which may backfire too. On the basis of his stroke-laden 167 in the final Test in Sydney , VVS Laxman was asked to stay back for the subsequent Tri-series , where he failed. Having smashed two hundreds in the IPL for the Chennai Super Kings , Vijay , though , can surely claim to be a better limited overs batsman than his current average suggests. In the past , he has asked for a longer rope in the ODIs before passing a judgment on him. Now could be the perfect time to give him one . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
