Has time come for an Indian coach to replace Fletcher ? The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Apr 2 , 2015 , 09.49AM IST During Duncan Fletcher 's rein , in fact , it was felt that the players became so disconnected with him that the Board had to bring on board Ravi Shastri as the team director. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : " He gives space and time to the player. He 'll have a chat with him , the players speak to him like he is their friend. " This was veteran opener Virender Sehwag 's assessment about coach Sanjay Bangar 's impact on Kings XI Punjab. The franchise made it to their maiden IPL final last season . A low-profile person , but a brilliant man-manager , Bangar has now been with the Indian team since August last year , and the word is that both he and the fielding coach R Sridhar have made a crucial contribution since they were added to the set-up . With Duncan Fletcher 's contract having expired after India 's semifinal loss to Australia in the ICC World Cup , should the BCCI mandarins again look for handing the reins of the side over to a foreigner ? If our coaches have shown the potential to do a good job , why not give them a chance ? " Absolutely. There is no question about it. There are a lot of advantages with having an Indian coach. The foreign coaches only know about the 15 players who are part of the squad. They have no idea about fringe players and in fact are wary of them. Whereas , an Indian coach would have seen a player , who has been selected into the Indian team , earlier in domestic cricket , and that really helps , " says former India skipper and chief selector Dilip Vengsarkar . " If an Indian is good , why not ? There is nothing wrong in it. It is not necessary to have a foreign coach all the time , " agrees ex-India stumper Kiran More , who too has served as chief selector . Team India 's batting coach Sanjay Bangar describing Ajinkya Rahane how to do it at team 's practice session. ( TOI Photo ) When John Wright was hired as the India coach by the BCCI 15 years ago , it was thought that a foreign coach would help the team evolve into a more disciplined outfit , bring in a new training regimen and be free of bias when it came to judging the merit of a player . While the results have been encouraging since Wright , Greg Chappell , Gary Kirsten and then Fletcher took charge in this period , a few critical issues cropped up too . During Fletcher 's rein , in fact , it was felt that the players became so disconnected with him that the Board had to bring on board Ravi Shastri as the team director with Bangar , Sridhar and Bharat Arun assisting him . " There could be a communication gap between the boys and a foreign coach. However , an Indian coach would communicate much better with the team. He would know how to make a player comfortable in a team environment and get the best out of him. An Indian coach would be able to spend a lot of time off the field with the players which is very important. The foreign coaches , on the other hand , mostly keep unto themselves , " feels Vengsarkar . " Coaching the Indian team is a much more difficult task in comparison to coaching England or Australia. In the Indian team , there could be different players speaking different languages , and even different dialects. This is why it is important for an Indian coach to be around the team , " feels former India skipper and manager Wadekar . While Bangar has a strong case for being 'promoted ' , Wadekar feels that an Indian cricketer of pedigree would be best-suited for the job . " Ideally , we should have a Sunil Gavaskar or a Shastri coaching the Indian team , provided they are free from their media commitments. Even a Vengsarkar would be a great choice. They would be hugely respected , " he opined . Ultimately , though , it is the word of the captains , MS Dhoni and Virat Kohli , which might matter the most in this case . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
