Has Virender Sehwag begun winding up ? The author has posted comments on this article Arani Basu , TNN | Nov 19 , 2014 , 09.31AM IST According to sources , Sehwag was keen on having one last fling with Team India. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Out of favour with the national team , batsman Virender Sehwag seems to have hit a roadblock with the Delhi team as well , raising serious questions over his playing future . It was revealed on Tuesday that Sehwag has withdrawn from the North Zone team for the Deodhar Trophy as he did not want to block the path of youngsters. Co-incidentally , Gautam Gambhir too has pulled out from the Deodhar squad . However , for those closely observing Delhi cricket , Sehwag 's move is n't surprising at all. If sources are to be believed , the dasher from Nazafgarh may even be thinking of hanging his bat in near future. With the chances of his India comeback almost over , it 's quite likely that a top player like Sehwag would be finding it difficult to motivate himself for domestic cricket. At 36 , he is not getting younger and his form has dipped over the last two-three years. He has been struggling to match up to his exalted standards even on the domestic front . According to sources , Sehwag , who started the domestic season opening the batting for North Zone in the Duleep Trophy semifinal against Central Zone , was keen on having one last fling with Team India but his continued lack of form and a number of options available with the selectors dashed whatever little chance he had of getting a recall . " The North Zone selectors , including national selector Vikram Rathour , had spoken to him and he said he wanted to give it one more go. That 's why he was picked for the zone despite a very ordinary domestic season last year . The scenario seems to have changed now. But he has an IPL contract and it 's difficult to say how he wants to plan his exit , " said a BCCI official . As the season went on , Sehwag seemed more keen on batting lower down , wanting to give youngsters a chance. In the last few matches of the Vijay Hazare trophy league matches , Sehwag dropped down the order. " He gave up his batting position so that younger players in the team get more exposure. As it is he was struggling , " a source close to the Delhi team management told TOI on Saturday. Coincidentally , his move came immediately after the Test team for Australian tour was announced. He seemed more and more a reluctant campaigner and had told selectors that he did not want to play in the Hazare Trophy for Delhi. Insiders say he was persuaded by the selectors to carry on . " Sehwag said he did n't want to play in the Vijay Hazare knockout stages , saying it 's time young faces got the opportunity to play for the state. However , the selectors persuaded him to play since Delhi have been struggling , " a top DDCA official told TOI . Was it a spat with Gauti ? According to sources , another reason for Sehwag 's growing indifference towards domestic games was a tiff he had with his close friend and former India opening partner Gambhir. According to sources , Delhi captain Gambhir had lost his temper while setting the field during a Hazare Trophy match recently and had a momentary outburst at Sehwag. Sehwag has then dropped hints of withdrawing himself from the team. It is also learnt that Gambhir made it clear that he preferred fitter players in his team . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
