Have the tables turned on India ? The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Dec 14 , 2014 , 01.04PM IST India 's ability to play spin , let alone quality spin , can now be openly questioned. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Almost a quarter of a century back a young , promising Australian leg-spinner made his international debut against India at Sydney. He was smashed around by Sachin Tendulkar and Ravi Shastri with such disdain that for a while Shane Warne reckoned he was n't cut out for Test cricket . Over the years , even as most of the Indian batsmen kept getting ridiculed for their inability to play fast bowling on bouncy tracks , they earned praise in equal measure for playing spin well . Times , however , have changed as Nathan Lyon 's 12-wicket haul in the Adelaide Test showed on Saturday. India 's ability to play spin , let alone quality spin , can now be openly questioned . Former India skipper Ajit Wadekar feels T20 cricket may slowly rob us of one of our greatest strengths in cricket . " After the arrival of T20s , our batsmen are lacking 'Test match ' temperament. They want to blast the spinner out of sight all the time without realizing the importance of staying out there , " Wadekar told TOI on Saturday . " Wriddhiman Saha 's shot ( he stepped out of the crease and was bowled on the final day ) was stupid ! " the former India coach and selector lamented . Legendary off-spinner Erapalli Prasanna blames India 's recent vulnerability against spin on 'faulty technique' . " They are using the 'bat pad technique'. They are reaching out to the ball and are exposing both sides of the bat to an edge. It is a dangerous way of playing an attacking spinner. They are going forward blindly , which means you are in a 'blind spot ' while playing the ball - you have n't seen the ball after it has pitched , and will therefore edge it , " Prasanna pointed out . " They are looking to jab at the ball , and not playing it with soft hands , " observed former India opener Lalchand Rajput , who has spent time with most of the batsmen in the current Indian team as a coach of the 'A ' side . Prasanna recalled how the likes of Vijay Manjrekar , Sunil Gavaskar and Gundappa Vishwanath showed him the ideal template to play spin . " They allowed the ball to come onto the bat and rolled their wrists , making sure the ball would meet the middle of their blade. Virat Kohli is similar. He uses his bat like a TT racquet and looks to play towards mid-on. " The root cause of the problem , feels Rajput , is the absence of quality off-spinners in the domestic circuit which means the batsmen are n't used to playing them. " Wadekar endorses that view. " In our times , one used to play class spinners like Padmalkar Shivalkar and Rajinder Goel , who never got to play Test cricket , in domestic matches. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
