High Court orders RCA office to be sealed The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 12 , 2015 , 01.54PM IST Lalit Modi was removed as the RCA president. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 JAIPUR : The Rajasthan High Court on Thursday ordered sealing of the office of Rajasthan Cricket Association ( RCA ) till March 30 on a plea by Lalit Kumar Modi against a no-confidence vote which led to his ouster as its chief . The interim order by the single bench of Justice Bela M Trivedi came on the petition filed by Modi against the vote in an emergency governing body meeting held here on March 9 . Modi alleged that the state units of RCA which were present to attend the meeting held on March 9 , were not allowed to enter the premises by use of force and deterrence to life . The members were looked by police in a bus and the unit members supporting him were not allowed to cast votes in the confidence motion voting , he alleged . It was also alleged by Modi in his petition that though the scheduled time for voting was post noon , the polling began at 11.30 AM and Modi along with three others were declared voted out of their posts . After hearing Modi 's plea , the bench issued notice to J C Mohanti , president of Rajasthan Sports Council , and directed him to appear before the court with the record of proceedings on March 30. It also issued notice to Principal Secretary Sports , DGP , Rajasthan Cricket Association , Commissioner Jaipur police , leader of rival group Amin Pathan and some other persons . Modi approached the single bench of Justice Trivedi which had by a detailed order in February held as illegal an extraordinary general body meeting held on October 11 last year in which Modi and his aides were ousted from their posts . The bench had then also permitted the estranged group lead by Pathan to hold a fresh meeting and bring a no confidence motion afresh . It was also observed by the bench then that the motion was to be held under the chairmanship of Mohanti , who is also Principal Secretary of Medical Education Department . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
