Hike partners with CricBuzz to bring World Cup updates to cricket fans The author has posted comments on this article Priyanka Singh , TNN | Feb 19 , 2015 , 02.22PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 LUCKNOW : Hike messenger , India 's homegrown chat application has launched 'World Cup 2015 ' on hike , in partnership with CricBuzz , to allow hikers to avail of score updates , news and analysis curated by Cricbuzz. For every android user on hike , a new chat window , called 'World Cup 2015 ' , will appear in the users ' chat list , which will be active during the entire World Cup . Commenting on the launch , Kavin Mittal , Founder and CEO , Hike messenger , said , " It is a known fact that our country is crazy about cricket. We 're excited to partner with CricBuzz to launch 'World Cup 2015 ' on hike that will allow tens of millions of hikers to enjoy real-time cricket scores and updates all through the World Cup. Like messaging , we 've kept the experience quite simple and bite sized so that it feels absolutely effortless to consume cricket content , inside hike itself. " Hike 's android users will receive a card with real-time score updates and match results starting February 13 , 2015. This chat will be active until March 31st and will contain content relevant to the latest match , post which the chat will disappear from all the users ' chat roster. In addition , hikers will also have access to view detailed scorecards and news from the World Cup , Points Tables and additional content , within Hike itself. " What makes this feature powerful in a social setting is that match scorecards can be shared with friends in one-to-one and group chats , leading to fun conversations around the tournament " , added Mittal . To get this feature , hike 's android users need to first download the latest version of the app from Google Play. Pankaj Chhaparwal , CEO , CricBuzz , said , " Being a brand that is natively digital , we understand the importance of reaching out to the customers , on a medium they 're used to , in a format that is engaging. We 've been doing a lot of things around building traction on CricBuzz and our content partnership with Hike takes it to the next level. Through hike , we 'll be touching over 35 million users. " Launched in December 2012 , hike has over 35M users and has raised $ 86M from Tiger Global and BSB till date. The app also boasts of a fairly young user base with over 90 % of its users being under the age of 25 and residing in India. The chat app has localized features , which are developed keeping in mind the infrastructural and cultural requirements such as Hike Offline - lets you message your friends even when they 're offline , Hidden Mode - allows users to hide their private chats with a password , Regional Stickers - helps users express more in their own language , Hike Calls - lets hikers call for free over the internet , consuming lowest bandwidth and much more . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
