History and records are bound to change : Misbah The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 14 , 2015 , 05.50PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Hoping to break Pakistan 's World Cup jinx against India , captain Misbah-ul-Haq feels that never having beaten their arch-rivals in cricket 's showpiece event would not have a bearing on their opening game on Sunday as he strongly believes that " history is bound to change " . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " I believe records and history are such things which are bound to change. There is nothing in life which remains constant forever. It can always change and it would change. That 's what one should believe when you get onto the field , " the 40-year-old Misbah exuded quiet confidence ahead of his team 's opening encounter against Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's men . For Misbah , a bit of emotional quotient before a high-voltage match is okay but he feels that often " being driven by emotion can lead to wrong decisions and one will fail to execute the plan he is assigned. " " I do n't know whether it 's difficult or it 's not difficult. It just varies person to person , but I think it is the way to go that you just do n't take anything into the ground when you are playing against India. You do n't have to worry about what 's happening outside , what 's going on in the countries. I think you need to focus on your game , go there , and play your best. " Playing India at Adelaide first up is not something that makes the skipper wary . " You do n't get into the field thinking that one particular opposition would have been better than some other opponent. In life and in cricket , you have to ready for any opposition and deal with the situation , " he said . Misbah admitted that having the 7 feet 1 inch-tall left-arm pacer Mohammed Irfan in the team is an advantage . " Look , people find it difficult tackling the bounce generated by Irfan on benign pitches in India and Pakistan , therefore you can think what can happen on bouncy Australian tracks. " Misbah feels that winning the two warm-up games has given the side the required momentum and some of the key players have been performing well . " We have had players like Umar Akmal , Sohaib Maqsood , Harris Sohail performing well. Shahid Afridi and Yasir Shah bowled brilliantly against England. " For the captain , the key is to enjoy the game. " Obviously , India-Pakistan is always all about pressure. The best thing we can do is just enjoy the game , enjoy the atmosphere , go there , play your game , be positive , and that 's the way how it is. I think if you could just go there and play your natural game , that 's how you can handle the pressure well , and that 's my advice to the team. " Younis Khan 's experience will also come in handy , feels Misbah . " Obviously , he 's a senior player , with experience of playing in all conditions and throughout the world. He 's always been a big help for me as a captain and a big help for the other teammates. Definitely , he 's just giving his input about this wicket and stadium. " Misbah accepted that the absence of Mohammad Hafeez and Junaid Khan will affect Pakistan but one needs to move on . " Obviously , senior players , experienced players and good performers are key to your team 's success , but this is how life goes on. You need to replace people when there is injury . " Unfortunately , injuries are part and parcel of your life and games especially. You should just focus on what you 've got , and you need to believe that whatever you 've got , that is the best , and I think that 's what we are thinking , " he said . " I think everybody needs to just focus on his own game. Do n't worry about who is here , who is not here , who we are missing. That 's the only way to just go about your own performances , " he added . Many former players have said that an India-Pakistan game is won or lost in the dressing room and Misbah also believes that handling pressure is key . " It is about pressure and it is about the dressing room and what you are thinking about this game. You need to be really positive in these sort of pressure games , and that 's how you can really perform well , " he said . Misbah termed opener Shehzad as a match-winner. " Yeah , I think his performances are really good. You could say he 's a match-winner. He could really turn the game. So we 'll be really happy to have him in the squad because he got that sort of flair and that sort of , you could say , positive attitude that he could rise to the occasion and play a really good inning. He 's an important player for us. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
