Hope they do n't cross the line : Rohit Sharma The author has posted comments on this article Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Anecdotes of Indians facing a deluge of verbal bouncers on their tours abroad in the past can fill up pages. Lack of mental strength eating into India 's talent reserves always led to stories highlighting struggles of the regular Indian cricket traveller . It 's taken a while getting here , to the point where giving it back now comes as naturally as being docile came all those years ago. It 's not easy to get under the skin of an Indian cricketer today. So thick are those layers , owing to a massive generational shift , that countries hosting India prefer to just get along with the game . That 's something Australia will look to do against India on Thursday. Just concentrate on the cricket. They know that trying to nag a Virat Kohli or a Rohit Sharma is a weapon that could backfire badly . " It 's part of the game , I guess , " said Sharma , without thinking twice. " As long as it is within the boundaries , " he adds . Each time the two teams have crossed that certain line in recent years , Australia has been the one to suffer more. From Monkeygate in 2008 to the latest Warner-Rohit episode early this year , the Aussies have n't quite forgotten the brazenness of this Indian bunch . " I just hope they ( Aussies ) do n't cross the line. We all know as professional cricketers there are boundaries which we do n't need to cross , " said Rohit . Rohit does n't believe in innovating cricket shots simply because he believes he has the right technique to stand straight and play a given delivery well. It 's much in contrast to Glenn Maxwell 's 'Look away , back away ' cut he played against Pakistan this week. " We like to keep it simple , " Rohit said . And that 'simplicity ' allows this Indian team to speak its mind. On Thursday , match referee Ranjan Madugalle will be busy listening to every gem that falls from the mouths of either team members. But India are not willing to take it from Australia , and Australia knowing this too well is where the contest will have a different edge . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
