Hot-headed David Warner made to cool off The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 21 , 2015 , 09.36AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE : Opener David Warner has been 'rested ' for Australia 's game against England in Hobart on Friday. The official reason given by Cricket Australia is that he needs to rest a sore hamstring which he has been carrying since the start of the tri-series . But after his spat with Rohit Sharma at the MCG on Sunday night , which led to a fine by the ICC and a stern warning by CA officials , it seems more like a cooling-off period. It remains to be seen if he will be on the pitch for the Australia Day clash against India in Sydney on January 26 . Warner has had on-field problems galore , the most notorious being a punch in the face of young England batsman Joe Root in England a year ago. He has been known to pick fights on the field with such frequency that CA have had to put him under probation. The latest incident has also not gone down well with the CA officials and they have given him a stern warning. Besides Warner , regular skipper George Bailey , Josh Hazlewood and Mitchell Johnson will also not make the trip to Hobart. Bailey was suspended for one match by the ICC for slow over-rate , while Hazlewood is resting minor soreness in his left heel. Mitchell Johnson , who is yet to play a game , will miss the trip due to personal reasons. A squad of 12 players will be on duty for the match . CA selectors have named Steve Smith as the captain for the Hobart game , and have included Shaun Marsh and Cameron White in the squad in place of Bailey and Warner. Bailey was suspended for Friday 's match as punishment for the team maintaining a slow over-rate during Australia 's four-wicket victory against India at the MCG on Sunday . Smith will become Australia 's 22nd ODI captain , although he led the side in three of the four Test matches against India in December and January. Selector Rodney Marsh said : " Steven 's appointment was a straightforward decision given the excellent impression he made in charge of the side during the Test series when he stepped in for the injured Michael Clarke . " It is unfortunate for George Bailey that he will miss the match in his home state but in Steven we have a dynamic player who leads from the front , by example , and we look forward to him doing so again on Friday. " While there was a detailed statement on Smith 's appointment , there was just a brief mention of Warner. " He is rested , following the hamstring soreness he reported at the start of the series , " was a curt one-liner on his unavailability. Australia Coach Darren Lehmann emphasized the need for the team to improve its over-rate in the wake of Bailey 's suspension. " We have bowled too many wides and we have been too slow between the overs , " he said. " We have got to get better at that. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
