How ready are Men in Blue for 2015 World Cup ? The author has posted comments on this article Avijit Ghosh , TNN | Nov 14 , 2014 , 12.21PM IST In Australia , the ability to handle pacy short pitched stuff would be put to serious test. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Just weeks before the 2007 ODI World Cup , the West Indies and Sri Lanka came calling. India , still shaken and stirred from the after-effects of coach Greg Chappell 's antics , was far from a settled unit. The twin ODI series against the two cricket teams was expected to iron out the rough spots . A couple of batting slots at the top was up for grabs. There were three contenders -Gautam Gambhir , Robin Uthappa and Sourav Ganguly . During the twin series , Uthappa and Ganguly outperformed Gambhir and were consequently selected for the World Cup . India brushed aside West Indies 3-1 and swept past Sri Lanka 2-1. Few paid attention to the fact that the islanders had neither brought Muralitharan , then at the peak of his 15 degrees prime , nor left-handed seamer Chaminda Vaas , who had always troubled India . As it happened , the Men in Blue unravelled in the World Cup. The team which had looked so formidable on the tailor-made batting tracks fumbled on the slow-low pitches in the Caribbeans. Dravid 's boys lost to both Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. For Sri Lanka , Murali and Vaas were the main wicket-takers. Vaas took two for 39 ( Uthappa and Ganguly ) , Murali scalped three for 41 ( the well-set Sehwag , Dhoni and Agarkar ) . Dhoni went for a first-ball duck . Now with the next ODI World Cup just three months away , India has again waltzed past its favourite sparring partner at home. And it is important to point out the similarities with what happened seven years ago. The Lankans have again held back their two best bowlers : Malinga and Herath. The superb show of India 's top order such as Ajinkya Rahane , Shikhar Dhawan , Ambati Rayudu , Virat Kohli and Rohit Sharma needs to be evaluated in this context . Besides , it 's well-known that after the Windies had suddenly pulled out of their tour , the Lankan board was requested by the all-powerful BCCI to play this series. The islanders were in the middle of their Cup practice and their lacklustre performance , at least partly , needs to be understood in that context . Not that the ongoing tour has been without any gain for the hosts. On the basis of a clutch of outstanding performances , Axar Patel has made himself a serious candidate for the Cup squad . Thankfully , Dhoni 's boys would be better acclimatised than Dravid 's team seven years ago. In fact , they will spend most of the next four months in Australia , the co-host for the 2015 Cup along with New Zealand . Those games , to be played in the second half of January 2015 , will offer quality match practice for the Men in Blue before their first World Cup game against Pakistan on Feb 15 , 2015. Barring the hosts , no other team will be as properly acclimatised as them. Not that getting used to the condition offers any guarantee for a good performance . Apart from a five-Test series Down Under which they lost 4-0 , Mohd Azharuddin 's Men in Blue had played 14 ODI matches against hosts Australia and West Indies , just before the Cup . Yet it ended up having one of its worst World Cups. Going through the scores and recalling what one had seen on TV , two facts come to light : One , barring Tendulkar and Azhar , no Indian batsman showed a semblance of consistency. Two , few games were high-scoring encounters. India 's highest score was 234 ; nobody got a hundred . These are different times though. The pitches are relatively flatter and more suited to batting. In recent years , India has enjoyed some ODI success in Australia , notably in the Commonwealth Bank tri-series in 2007-08 . Dhoni 's world champions should fare better than the previous generation. Overall , they are a more professional , if not a more talented , unit. For instance , during the 1992 World Cup , Azhar 's boys ran terribly between the wickets. In the tight games against England and Australia , India had four run-outs each . In recent times , ineffective bowling at the death and unpredictable opening batting have been identified as India 's prime weak spots. But in Australia , the ability to handle pacy short pitched stuff would be put to serious test again . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
