Hughes ' memory will keep Oz pumped up The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Dec 26 , 2014 , 09.23AM IST There 's a strong possibility of the trend continuing in 2015 as well - with 50 days to go , Australia look the firm favourites. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 Teams have always enjoyed playing at home , but these days , the advantage is getting all the more pronounced. Unbeatable sides at home are looking mediocre while travelling. The 2011 World Cup was a perfect example of the 'home ' theory - when three of the four semifinalists were from the subcontinent. 2011 , in fact , was the first World Cup when a home team went on to win the tournament . There 's a strong possibility of the trend continuing in 2015 as well - with 50 days to go , Australia look the firm favourites. The Aussies are No. 1 ODI team in the world at the moment. They they will be playing in their own backyard and according to the scheduling , all their knock-out games will be in Australia . They also have the ammunition to go all the way on the hard and bouncy tracks. From the explosive opener in David Warner to the dynamic all-rounders in Mitchell Marsh and Shane Watson - the Aussies have it all. Steve Smith is shaping up into a champion finisher , Mitchell Johnson has been in the form of his life and even Nathan Lyon - their No. 1 spinning option - will go into the World Cup high on confidence after winning Test matches on his own against India. Their only worry is the injury to their inspirational captain Michael Clarke , who is racing against time to get fit for the World Cup . It 's the accidental death of Phil Hughes that seems to have made the Aussies all the more determined to win everything and it would be a surprise if Clarke does n't take the field just to win the World Cup in the memory of his best mate . About a month back the Aussies beat South Africa 4-1 in an ODI series. The result notwithstanding , the South Africans too are well-equipped to handle the tracks of Australia. But the Proteas have n't yet found a replacement for Jacques Kallis , the spin department is still weak and the tendency to choke at the crunch can never be ruled out . Still , it would be a surprise if they do n't make the last-four . The co-hosts of the tournament , New Zealand , are another team extremely difficult to beat at home. They too will play all their games till the semifinals at home and after beating Pakistan in an ODI series in UAE without Brendon McCullum , the confidence in the camp will be sky high . The Kiwis had whitewashed India at home last year , but they have prepared quietly for the World Cup . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
