Hurt Michael Hussey seeks another IPL fling The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Jan 12 , 2015 , 09.43AM IST Hussey says he is still evolving as a batsman. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : At 39 , Michael Hussey continues to cock a snook at the Australian selectors he feels hastened his retirement . " Of course I retired on my terms , but you know , " he says , taking a break from a physio session with Sydney Thunder , for whom he is hogging headlines here in the Big Bash League. He has suffered a left calf injury running between the wickets . At his age , Hussey does n't need to be doing this anymore . But 'Mr. Cricket ' just ca n't let go , not as long as the form lasts. Into his third year of international retirement , Hussey has an obsessive compulsive disorder : he just ca n't stop scoring runs . He has already got a 96 from 60 deliveries this BBL season , and as the 4000th T20 run milestone looms , some say he could be the best T20 batsman in Australia. Still fit , still hungry and still in form , Hussey is tired of fielding questions about post-retirement options like commentating and coaching . He is also firm on being in the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) pool for the next player auction and is hopeful of being picked up by a run-hungry franchise. He insists he still has it in to contribute. " Unfortunately , selectors in international cricket are very , very age-specific , " he told TOI . " Anyone on the wrong side of 30 is scoffed at. It 's weird because a batsman is just hitting his stride in his 30s. I was n't at my best till I was way past 30 , and I do n't think too many good Test batsmen will disagree with me. If you take care of the present , the future takes care of itself. " He insists the IPL is the place to be , and he has n't had enough of being in the Chennai Super Kings and the Mumbai Indians . CSK let go of him in early 2014 soon after he inadvertently mentioned Gurunath Meiyappan as the man running the franchise , and although the two incidents may not be related , Hussey does n't think CSK have a need for him anymore . A brief stint with Mumbai Indians brought more heartbreak when the franchise decided to let go of him in November. " I am hurt and disappointed about that , " he said , " I did have a poor start in the UAE but then was hitting my stride. I still love the challenge of playing and winning . I 've tried not to change my game too much but I 've still added some T20 strokes to my repertoire. I 'm still evolving as a batsman . " I love the mingling of cultures in the IPL , the difficulties of getting a dressing room together when the players meet only for a short span of time each year. It has its own challenges. MS ( Dhoni ) was really good at that. " Speaking of MS , has the India One-day captain told him anything about an India coaching offer ? " No. If it 's true , I 'm flattered . I hope something is cooking behind the scenes but I have no idea . Honestly , I 'd have to think if the offer came my way but coaching is n't exactly on my mind these days. I do n't have any coaching degrees. The appetite for competition is still there . " But yes , I 've picked up tips from how MS handled the CSK dressing room. What a calm influence he had. The management of the team was really good. He handled the seniors well , creating an atmosphere where everyone could perform. We 've tried to recreate that with Thunder here , and Jacques Kallis is here as well , " he said . Probably , Hussey did n't like the manner of his previous departures from the IPL and feels he deserves more. Can he still fetch the staggering amounts he used to ? He says it 's not about the money anymore. " I 'm fit all year around and I 'm still getting the runs. " That 's not an empty boast . Since his retirement , Hussey averages above 40 in T20s , although he says averages can be misleading in the format. Incidentally , he also featured in the first T20 International ever played , back in 2005 between Australia and New Zealand. His relaxed persona and candid manner make him a favourite of dressing rooms. But how long can he go on ? " Modern cricketers are staying fit longer , scoring more. Very soon we might see cricketers in their 40s playing at the international stage. " And did he keep an eye on the India-Australia series ? " The pitches were flat. We 've got to have a word with the Sydney curator about that. " Knowing Hussey , he 'll end up picking a bat and having a go in the nets . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
