I can not represent Indian Cricket Council : ICC president The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 20 , 2015 , 11.50AM IST Mustafa Kamal told Bangladeshi reporters that he would raise the issue at the ICC 's next meeting. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 DHAKA : The International Cricket Council 's Bangladeshi president has threatened to quit over the umpiring in his country 's World Cup quarterfinal defeat to India , suggesting the match appeared to have been fixed . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Mustafa Kamal told Bangladeshi reporters in Melbourne after Thursday 's match at the MCG that he would raise the issue at the ICC 's next meeting , saying the umpires ' decisions seemed to have been " pre-arranged " . " As the ICC president , whatever I have to say I will say it in next meeting. It could happen that maybe I will resign , " Kamal said in comments aired on Bangladeshi television . " There was no quality in the umpiring. It looked like they took the field after it ( the outcome ) was pre-arranged , " he alleged . His comments came as protests erupted in Bangladesh after the cricketing minnows suffered a 109-run defeat by holders India , due in large part to a blistering knock by Rohit Sharma who top-scored with 137 . Sharma was caught at deep mid-wicket off the bowling of Rubel Hossain when he was on 90 , only for the umpires Aleem Dar and Ian Gould to signal a no-ball for what appeared to be a legitimate waist-high delivery . Bangladeshi fans were also furious at the dismissal of star batsman Mohammad Mahmudullah who was caught close to the boundary rope . The match was the biggest in the history of the cricket-mad nation , marking the first time that Bangladesh had made the World Cup quarterfinals . Many fans wept only after the defeat while protestors also burned an effigy of Dar , who hails from Bangladesh 's great rival Pakistan . Kamal , whose position has been largely ceremonial since India 's Narayanaswami Srinivasan became the body 's chairman last year , said the ICC 's acronym seemed to stand for the Indian Cricket Council . " I can not represent the Indian Cricket Council. If someone has imposed a result on us , in that case no one can accept it , " added Kamal who is a minister in the Bangladeshi government . Bangladesh 's exit dominated the front-page headlines on Friday with , many commentators blaming shoddy umpiring for the defeat . " Tigers fall to controversial calls , " read the lead in the Dhaka Tribune while the the headline of the mass-circulation Bengali daily Kaler Kantha read : " The dream run ends in umpiring scandal. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
