ICC allows Mohammad Aamer to play domestic cricket The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jan 29 , 2015 , 12.27PM IST Aamer was one of three Pakistani players handed bans of at least five years for the notorious spot-fixing scandal in a Test against England in 2010. ( Agency Photo ) Page 1 of 4 DUBAI : The International Cricket Council Thursday gave permission for banned Pakistan paceman Mohammad Aamer to return to domestic cricket with immediate effect , relaxing his ban for spot-fixing . Aamer was one of three Pakistani players handed bans of at least five years for agreeing to arrange no-balls to order in a Test against England in 2010 . The 22-year-old 's ban was due to expire on September 2 , but the ICC 's Anti-Corruption and Security Unit ( ACSU ) used discretionary powers to allow him to return to Pakistani domestic games early . " The ACSU Chairman , Sir Ronnie Flanagan , with the prior approval of the ICC Board and the PCB ( Pakistan Cricket Board ) , has exercised his discretion to allow Aamer to return to domestic cricket played under the auspices of the PCB with immediate effect , " the ICC said in a statement . Aamer , along with captain Salman Butt and fellow new-ball partner Mohammad Asif were found guilty of orchestrating deliberate no-balls in the Lord 's Test against England in August 2010 . The three players and their agent Mazhar Majeed were jailed by a UK court after the now-defunct tabloid News of the World exposed them in a sting operation . At the time of the incident Aamer was regarded as one of the hottest young bowling prospects in world cricket and there was some sympathy for him , given his young age -- he was 18 at the time . " The ACSU chairman was satisfied that Aamer had cooperated with the ACSU by fully disclosing his part in the matters that led to his disqualification , admitting his guilt , showing remorse and cooperating with the Unit 's ongoing investigations and by recording messages for the ACSU education sessions , " the ICC statement said . In 2013 the PCB asked the ICC to relax certain conditions of Aamer 's ban. That prompted the ICC to form a committee which recommended a change in the players ' code of conduct . In November last year the ICC Board approved a provision which allows all banned players to return to domestic cricket a few months before their ban expires . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
