ICC CEO Richardson bats for 2-ball , 4-fielder rule The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 12 , 2015 , 11.24AM IST Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : There 's an apparent bonhomie in ICC these days , but it 's all on the surface . Post World Cup , there 's likely to be a 'rule war ' in the cricket committee meeting , where the current set of ODI rules of having a maximum of four fielders outside the ring and the use of new balls from either end will be reviewed . MS Dhoni has strong reservation against the two rules being used together and the sub continental block is likely to support the Indian captain 's stand . But ICC CEO Dave Richardson said on Wednesday that he is completely in favour of the two rules because those " have made ODIs more interesting " . " I feel these two new rules have helped the ODIs come out of a pattern where after the initial blast , it was going into a phase where the boundaries were not coming. After the T20 explosion , from the fans ' perspective , it was not the best thing. But now the boundaries are coming right through the innings , keeping the interest going , " Richardson said in a press conference here on Wednesday . The sub continental spinners might be coming to terms with the two new balls , but the four-fielder rule has made it really tough for them. But Richardson argued that the spinners are still a force to reckon with in the game . " Daniel Vettori is showing it in game after game that spinners can do the job. Even in the ODI where AB de Villiers smashed the ODI record , Suleiman Benn went for 49 off 10. So it 's not true that spinners have found the rules difficult , " Richardson said . The Indian spinners , though , may beg to differ and Richardson conceded that the rules will come up for review in May. The recommendations , too , have gone to the committee that one of the rules has to be done away with . " The cricket committee meeting will take place in May where the rules will be reviewed. But I still maintain that both the rules are fine , " Richardson added . The ICC CEO was also asked whether the World Cup , spread over 45 days , is a little too stretched . " I do n't think so. Probably it 's stretched for those who are working around the World Cup. But for the fans , it 's going to be enjoyable , " Richardson said , adding that the last rugby World Cup was shorter in duration . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
