ICC cricket committee dwells on menace of suspect actions The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jun 6 , 2014 , 01.47PM IST Bowlers with suspect actions are currently required to attend ICC-approved biomechanics laboratory tests . Page 1 of 4 BANGALORE : Concerned about the growing menace of chucking , the ICC 's cricket committee feels the current methods to detect illegal bowling actions are not adequate and umpires should be more confident in reporting violators . In a two-day meeting here , the committee , headed by former India captain Anil Kumble , felt more needs to be done to check illegal bowling actions . " The committee discussed the issue of illegal bowling actions , and believed that there are a number of bowlers currently employing suspect actions in international cricket , and that the ICC 's reporting and testing procedures are not adequately scrutinising these bowlers , " the ICC said in a statement . " It recommended that changes be considered to encourage umpires and referees to identify suspect bowlers with greater confidence , to use the expertise of the biomechanists working in this area to assume a greater role during the assessment process , and to allow for ongoing scrutiny of bowlers once they have been identified under the ICC procedures , " it added . The ICC Cricket Committee makes recommendations on cricket playing issues to the Chief Executives ' Committee ( CEC ) and , if it is a policy matter , the ICC Board for approval . Both the CEC and the ICC Board are scheduled to meet during the ICC annual conference week in Melbourne from June 22-28 . The ICC Cricket Committee comprises representatives of many stakeholder groups involved in the modern game , including players , umpires and the media . " Members of the committee were also updated on the project to increase the number of illegal action testing centres around the cricketing world , noting that Cardiff Metropolitan University was now accredited to conduct illegal action testing for the ICC , and that other facilities in India , Australia , England and South Africa were likely to be accredited over coming months , " the ICC said . The issue of illegal bowling actions came to the fore recently when Sri Lankan off-spinner Sachithra Senanayake was reported for using an illegal action during the series against England . Bowlers with suspect actions are currently required to attend ICC-approved biomechanics laboratory tests to assess the amount of elbow extension ( flex ) . In 2004 , the ICC set a 15-degree limit on this extension . " They ( the committee ) also received an update on the project to measure illegal actions in a match environment using wearable sensor technology , " the ICC stated . " The second stage of the project has just concluded , with 70 players being tested by wearing the sensors at training sessions during the ICC U19 Cricket World Cup 2014 in the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) . The results of the trials were very encouraging , with the final stage of the project expected to conclude in 2016 , " it added . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
