ICC defends anti-corruption unit despite review The author has posted comments on this article AFP | May 9 , 2014 , 05.56PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ABERDEEN ( United Kingdom ) : The International Cricket Council ( ICC ) has defended the work of its anti-corruption and security unit , despite announcing a review into how the sport cracks down on fixing . A report in Britain 's Daily Telegraph on Tuesday said the ACSU , which does not have the powers of a law-enforcement agency , would be the first " victim " of the restructuring of the ICC following a shake-up of the global governing body led by the 'big three ' nations of India , Australia and England . During its 14 years in existence , the ACSU -- reported to cost $ 5.5 million dollars ( £ 3.25 million ) per year to run -- has not been directly responsible for uncovering a major case of corruption at a time when cricket has been trying to combat the threat to its integrity posed by match and spot-fixing . Now there are suggestions the unit , which is headed by former senior British police officer Ronnie Flanagan and employs seven regional around the world , as well as staff in the United Arab Emirates , will be replaced by investigation boards in individual countries as these are better able to liaise with national police forces . However , ICC chief executive David Richards said Friday : " The suggestion that the ACSU might be failing in its duty to protect the game is entirely misplaced and inaccurate . " It is important to emphasis that the review is only commencing , and , therefore , to draw any conclusions on the outcome of the review will be premature and detrimental to the working of such an important unit . " The ICC ACSU remains a world leader in the fight against corruption in sport , and has done some outstanding work since its inception in 2000 , " the former South Africa wicketkeeper added . Nevertheless , Richardson said a review was timely given the " risk of corruption " changing rapidly in recent years due to the increasing number of domestic Twenty20 cricket tournaments such as the Indian Premier League . Last month , India 's Supreme Court rejected N. Srinivasan 's plea to reinstate him as India 's cricket chief , saying he had effectively turned a blind eye to allegations of wrongdoing in the IPL . That case has called into question the plan to have Srinivasan head the revamped ICC from July . The most high-profile cricket fixing scandal in recent years arose from a 'sting ' operation carried out by now defunct British newspaper the News of the World in 2010 which led to the jailing of three Pakistan Test cricketers -- then captain Salman Butt , Mohammed Asif and Mohammed Aamer . The Essex case involving another Pakistan cricketer , Danish Kaneria , who this week lost an action in London 's High Court to have his life ban overturned , only came to light when a player reported an approach . This led the England and Wales Cricket Board to set up its own anti-corruption unit under Chris Watts , a former Scotland yard detective . Now the ECB set-up could serve as a model for other national boards. The ACSU was set up by Lord Paul Condon , the former head of London 's Metropolitan Police , in 2000 in response to the match-fixing scandal involving Hansie Cronje , the late South Africa captain . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
