ICC let fixed matches go ahead : Bangladesh The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jun 13 , 2014 , 12.39PM IST ICC spokesman Sami Ul Hasan declined to comment on the report 's allegations . Page 1 of 4 DHAKA : Bangladesh has accused anti-corruption investigators from the International Cricket Council of allowing a match in a scandal-plagued Twenty20 tournament to go ahead even though it knew it was fixed . A report from a special tribunal set up by the Bangladesh board said the ICC 's Anti-Corruption and Security Unit ( ACSU ) was aware beforehand that a match in the Bangladesh Premier League was going to be fixed but decided to keep organisers in the dark rather than alert them . " The evidence is clear that the fixed match between DG ( Dhaka Gladiators ) and CK ( Chittagong Kings ) played in Chittagong on the 2 February 2013 was played with the consent of ACSU , " the tribunal 's report said . " It is obvious that the focus of ACSU was on gathering evidence and not on prevention of ( the ) fixed match , " the report added . The report , a copy of which has been obtained by AFP , was handed to the ICC on June 8. The tribunal , headed by a retired judge , was set up by the board last September after the ICC brought charges against nine people over fixing . Organisers had hired the ICC 's investigators to monitor the BPL after its inaugural edition in 2012 was tainted by similar allegations . The tribunal has subsequently convicted one of the owners of the Dhaka Gladiators of match-fixing , while three international players pleaded guilty over the 2013 scandal . Former New Zealand international Lou Vincent pleaded guilty to breaching the ICC 's code of conduct for failing to tell authorities when a bookmaker approached him about fixing a match . Former Bangladesh captain Mohammad Ashraful and Sri Lanka 's Kaushal Lokuarachchi have also pleaded guilty . The report said Dhaka Gladiators coach Ian Pont alerted the ACSU that he had been approached by one of the team 's owners about fixing the February 2 match but was instructed to go ahead and play . ICC spokesman Sami Ul Hasan declined to comment on the report 's allegations . " We are reviewing the written judgement and have no comments to make at this stage , " he said . The tribunal said ICC investigators were obligated to inform the BCB of any wrongdoing . " The chairman of ACSU , Sir Ronald Flanagan , expressed his regret about this failure to inform BCB of this significant matter and made a personal unreserved apology on behalf of ACSU for not involving BCB at that stage. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
