ICC president Mustafa Kamal storms out after 'insult' The author has posted comments on this article Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : ICC president Mustafa Kamal stormed out of the Melbourne Cricket Ground ( MCG ) on Sunday evening even as the final between Australia and New Zealand was in progress . Kamal had been asked to stay away from the podium at the post-final ceremony and that did not go down well with the Bangladesh cricket chief who has been at loggerheads with the International Cricket Council ( ICC ) ever since he gave controversial comments on the India-Bangladesh match . " I am going to seek legal opinion on this , " Kamal told TOI on his way out. When asked why he was n't staying back for the handing over of the trophy , he shot back saying : " I 'll speak at the right time. Those who 're talking things about me - that I fought with the ICC - are all liars , " he added . Sources said Kamal had an argument inside the ICC box after he learnt that he would be denied the opportunity to give away the trophy. Kamal denied this . Ever since reports emerged that ICC chairman N Srinivasan would give away the winning trophy , Kamal was angry over the injustice meted out to him. In the previous years , the ICC presidents always gave the trophy to the winners - Sharad Pawar did the honours in 2011 . However , with the change in the ICC 's constitution and a chairman now at the helm of affairs , Srinivasan would do the honours as the big boss. Kamal , though , was not convinced . " I 'm going to raise this issue with my government back in Bangladesh , speak to our Prime Minister about this insult , " he said before leaving the MCG . Kamal , in his capacity as ICC president , had alleged that the Rohit Sharma no-ball in the quarterfinal against India at the MCG last week was a " biased decision " . The ICC had strongly condemned Kamal 's statement and showcaused him with a 10-day notice to reply . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
