ICC president Mustafa Kamal takes on Srinivasan for ceremony snub The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 30 , 2015 , 05.47PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : The simmering row within the International Cricket Council took an ugly turn on Monday with its president Mustafa Kamal threatening to expose " mischievous " designs of some people who had denied him the " constitutional right " to hand over the World Cup trophy . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The World Cup trophy was handed over to Australian captain Michael Clarke by chairman N Srinivasan after the final , but Kamal claimed that the ICC 's amendment of its rules in January 2015 mandated the president to give away trophies at global competitions . " I was supposed to give the trophy. It is my constitutional right. But very unfortunately , I was n't allowed to do so. My rights were dishonoured. After I go back home , I will let the whole world know what 's happening in ICC. I will let the whole world know about those guys who are doing these mischievous things , " Kamal told Bangladeshi channels . " I do n't know why I was not allowed to present the trophy , " he said . According to the amendment to the memorandum and articles of association of the ICC which was unanimously approved by Full Council in January 2015 , it appeared that the job of handing over of trophies at global events rests on the ICC president . According to clause 3.3 ( B ) : " With effect from the 2014 Conference Close Date , the president shall act solely as chairman at Conference and Special Meetings and be responsible for presenting trophies at global competitions and cricket events held under the aegis of the Council. For the avoidance of doubt , with effect from the 2014 Conference Close Date , the president will no longer act as chairman of the Executive Board or as chairman of any Committee or Sub-Committee. " The ICC president is , however , the ceremonial head while executive powers lie with the chairman. However till 1996 , the World Cup has been handed by various people and not necessarily the head of ICC . Kamal had made a stinging criticism about " umpiring bias " during Bangladesh 's quarterfinal loss to India in the World Cup. In that match , India 's Rohit Sharma was not given out to a Rubel Hossain delivery which apparently looked a " touch and go " decision . Kamal insisted that he had not spoken against any country but said that he was denied the opportunity of presenting the World Cup trophy for " speaking the truth " . " I commented on poor umpiring and even the ICC issued a press release. I was the president , I am the president and I will remain the president. But I have been robbed of my constitutional rights to speak the truth , to speak for cricket and to stand for cricket , " he said . " I have spoken for ICC and I have not spoken against any country. But as a cricket lover I spoke. That is why I could not give away the trophy , " he added . Kamal had come close to questioning the integrity of the umpires by saying that the ICC should investigate the matter and questioned whether some decisions were " deliberate or not. " A day later , the ICC 's chief executive , Dave Richardson , termed Kamal 's criticism " unfortunate " . According to reliable sources in the ICC , it was learnt that at an ICC meeting in Melbourne on Saturday , Kamal was categorically told that he wo n't be allowed to hand over the trophy . It is learnt that Srinivasan is extremely angry after Kamal voiced his concerns about " umpiring bias " in the India vs Bangladesh quarterfinal match. Kamal had accused India of flexing its muscles , which had led to umpiring bias . Srinivasan reportedly was n't one bit amused after hearing Kamal 's comments on record. While the former BCCI president did n't say anything in public , he did express his displeasure to the board members . Peeved at the developments , Kamal left the Melbourne Cricket Ground even before the final between Australia and New Zealand finished . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
