ICC urges calm after England contradict Dhoni The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 28 , 2014 , 06.12AM IST Dhoni maintains that Jadeja had been wronged not only by his aggressor ( Anderson ) but also by the Match Referee. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SOUTHAMPTON : Not long after India skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni said on Saturday that he had been hurt by the match referee 's decision to fine Ravindra Jadeja , came an unconfirmed report that two England players -- Ben Stokes and Matt Prior -- had suggested to David Boon during the hearing that Indian all-rounder had turned threateningly towards James Anderson and the England fast bowler had acted in self-defence . According to the report , which has not been officially denied , Prior 's contention was that Jadeja had turned towards Anderson with a raised bat , while Stokes suggested Jadeja had pushed Anderson first . This contradicts Dhoni 's claim at the match-eve press conference that Jadeja had neither uttered a word nor reacted aggressively on being pushed and had his bat in his armpit till he returned to the dressing room . Given the fact that Boon refused to take cognizance of any physical contact between the two players , it is clear that in the absence of any video footage of the incident , he did not pay heed to the testimonies of rival parties . The straight-talking Dhoni , who is himself one of the key witnesses to the spat that took place during the lunch break on Day 2 of the first Test match at Trent Bridge , maintains that Jadeja had been wronged not only by his aggressor ( Anderson ) but also the Match Referee . Meanwhile , the International Cricket Council on Sunday sought to douse the flames of the ongoing conflict by urging all parties to respect the ongoing judicial process . " England captain Alastair Cook and , more recently , India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni have made public comments relating to the alleged incident that took place during the first Test at Trent Bridge , the latter of which is critical of and undermines the ICC disciplinary process , " ICC chief executive David Richardson said in a statement . The world body also stood by Boon 's verdict , saying , " The ICC would also like to reiterate its full support of the process followed and respect for the decision made by David Boon . " We are satisfied that Mr. Boon carefully and comprehensively considered the evidence and submissions presented to him at the hearing , which included conflicting evidence from both sides , prior to making his decision. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
