ICC World Cup 2015 : Ian Chappell says India must pick Axar Patel over Ravindra Jadeja The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 21 , 2015 , 08.21PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Former Australian captain Ian Chappell feels Indian captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni must pick specialist spinner Axar Patel over " bits and pieces " player Ravindra Jadeja in the team 's second ICC World Cup 2015 game against South Africa here on Sunday . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Chappell said that India should beat South Africa if they repeat their clinical performance of their tournament opener against Pakistan in Adelaide. For the record , India have never won against the Proteas in three World Cup meetings . " India should play with their usual top six and pick the best bowling attack. They also need to bring in Patel for Jadeja , who to me is a bits and pieces cricketer. To win games in this competition , teams would have to take wickets in the midddle overs and that is where Patel can come handy , " Chappell said in an interview . Jadeja was preferred over Patel for the Pakistan game. South Africa have a 7-2 win-loss record at MCG , the best by a visiting team . Chappell said South Africa 's enviable record against India as well as at the 'G ' would not play into the opposition mind and he expects the pitch to behave similar to the one at Adelaide . " The pitch should not pose too much of a problem for the Indian batsmen. The good thing for India is that Shikhar Dhawan and Suresh Raina are back amongst the runs , Kohli ( Virat ) remains the key and he is in good form. Now what India need is good captaincy from Dhoni and a big innings by Rohit Sharma , " said Chappell . The match is being billed as the battle between India 's batsmen and South African pace attack led by Dale Steyn. However , Chappell has a view of his own . " South Africa are a good bowling side but is not at an elevated level where some take it to. They can be taken to task by this Indian batting line-up , " he added . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
