Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Pakistan 's death bowling needs to be complimented as their young fast bowler Sohail Khan ( 5/55 ) checked the Indian surge . India wobbled in the last five overs , losing five wickets for only 27 runs which stopped them short of the projected score of 325 . En route his 22nd ODI century , Kohli joined Sourav Ganguly as the second-highest century maker for India in ODIs with only Sachin Tendulkar ( 49 ) ahead of him. But he did eclipse Tendulkar 's highest individual score ( 98 ) by an Indian against Pakistan in any World Cup game . Along with Shikhar Dhawan ( 73 ) and Suresh Raina ( 74 ) , the trio pulverized a Pakistan bowling attack , which ran out of ideas by the 20th over itself . What Dhawan and Kohli started with a bang was finished with a flourish due to Raina 's 56-ball knock that had five fours and three sixes . Raina upped the ante as soon as he came in as he carted the Pakistani bowlers in the arc between square leg and deep mid-wicket. All his sixes were hit in that particular region as the opposition attack ran short of ideas . Much depended on the 7 feet 1 inch tall Mohammad Irfan ( 0/56 in 10 overs ) but Indian batsmen 's meticulous homework and Pakistan 's lack of it were evident during the Kohli-Dhawan partnership . It was patient yet authoritative knock from Kohli , where he built his innings brick-by-brick rather than playing scintillating shots. It was n't a flurry of boundaries but liberal sprinklings of ones and twos with the boundaries interspersed in-between . The testimony to his patience was his first 50 came off 60 balls while the second 50 took as many 59 deliveries . The foundation of the innings was Kohli 's 129-run second wicket stand with Dhawan , who also found form with an attractive 73 off 76 balls that had seven fours and a six . If Kohli-Dhawan did the consolidation , the Kohli-Raina stand of 110 off 15.3 overs helped them get to a substantial total. When Kohli was finally caught behind off pacer Sohail Khan , he had done his job and fittingly got a standing ovation from the capacity crowd . Kohli started off with a pull in-front of square off Sohail and the next boundary was a paddle sweep when Shahid Afridi strayed on the leg-side. There was an inside out lofted shot over extra cover off leg-spinner Yasir Shah. He used his feet to perfection against Yasir and left-arm spinner Harris Sohail. He was dropped on 76 by wicketkeeper Umar Akmal off Harris . The giant-sized Irfan was guilty of bowling either over-pitched deliveries or short balls which Dhawan dealt with a lot of ferocity at the onset . Dhawan , on the other hand looked assured against both Irfan and Sohail. He started with a square cut off Sohail and then played the perfect hook shot as Irfan dug one short. The back and across movement happened in a flash and it was over fine leg boundary . The Pakistani bowlers were guilty of not bowling the probing outswingers shade outside the off-stump channel to Dhawan - an area where his technique was found to be suspect . Even the seasoned Wahab Riaz tried the short-ball tactic but Dhawan was quick to hook him behind square for a boundary . Dhawan was unlucky when Kohli 's wrong call saw him get run-out. But by then he not only came back to form but also provided the necessary platform for the Men in Blue . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
