World Cup 2015 : Steyn vs Gayle with reputations at stake The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 25 , 2015 , 10.50AM IST Chris Gayle roared back to form with his sensational , record-breaking 215 against Zimbabwe. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Struggling South African fast bowler Dale Steyn must find a way to contain record-breaking West Indian batsman Chris Gayle in Friday 's crunch World Cup clash . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Steyn 's cutting edge has been blunted at the tournament so far with his two matches giving him total figures of two for 119 from a win over Zimbabwe and a crushing loss to India . Gayle , too , struggled at the start of the competition , making 36 in the defeat by Ireland and just four in the win over Pakistan . But he roared back to form with his sensational , record-breaking 215 against Zimbabwe in Canberra on Tuesday , the first-ever double-century at a World Cup . Now the spotlight at the Sydney Cricket Ground will be trained on Steyn , who has only ever dismissed Gayle once in their one-day international clashes . That came in the first match of five on the eve of the World Cup when Gayle hit a breezy 41 in damp Durban , albeit in a losing cause . The 35-year-old Jamaican hit two fours in Steyn 's first over as he and fellow opener Dwayne Smith , who will also play Friday , put on 51 for the first wicket inside the opening six overs . Gayle swung at almost everything as he made his runs off 24 balls , with two sixes and five fours before Steyn pounced for the wicket . In the preceding two-match Twenty20 series , Gayle hit 77 on the back of the fastest ever half-century in the format at Centurion and then blasted 90 off 41 balls in the second game at the Wanderers where the West Indies achieved a world record run-chase . Gayle was man-of-the-match after he shared a second-wicket stand of 152 off 75 balls with Marlon Samuels , who made 60 . Steyn did not play in those T20s but he will be under even greater scrutiny on Friday with fellow seamer Vernon Philander sidelined due to a hamstring strain and Wayne Parnell having been pummeled into submission by India at the MCG last weekend with the left-armer finishing with figures of one for 85 . South Africa skipper AB de Villiers admitted there was often a conundrum over where best to bowl Steyn -- as a lethal weapon against the top order or as a 'death bowler ' slamming the brakes on the runs . Against India , Steyn bowled just four overs in the first 25. " It depends on the situation of the game. I just go on my gut feel , " said de Villiers . " I could sit here and say that maybe my gut feel was wrong. Maybe not. That 's just the way I felt. The game , the rhythm of the game , that 's the way I read the situation , and it probably did n't pay off ( against India ) . " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
