World Cup 2015 : Team India not planning too far ahead The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 17 , 2015 , 09.18AM IST Of the top three Test-playing teams India have to face in the group matches , they are through with Pakistan and will take on South Africa next. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : On Monday morning , Team India woke up to the realization that the win over Pakistan was just a battle won , not the war. " Not that we are not aware of it. But after the emotionally-draining match , and the celebrations by the fans late into the night near our hotel , we could get carried away. The tournament has just begun and we realize we have taken the first step towards defending the World Cup , " said a team official , as the players got ready to board the bus to catch the flight to their next port of call , Melbourne . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " Naturally , it ( the win over Pakistan ) has given us the boost for the rest of our campaign , and will keep us in good stead for the tougher battles ahead. Next up is South Africa ( on Sunday ) and it is going to be a match that will probably decide who tops the group. We had done fairly well against the Australians at the MCG in the tri-series and now with this win under our belt , the team as a bunch is confident , " he said . Of the top three Test-playing teams India have to face in the group matches , they are through with Pakistan and will take on South Africa next . Then , at the WACA in Perth in a fortnight 's time , they will be up against the West Indies who were stunned by Ireland on Monday. The Irish will surely pose a stiff challenge but the other two - United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) and Zimbabwe - should not trouble India much in the league phase which ends on March 14. Of course , no match is easy pickings on this stage . Though the quarterfinals are still far away , India will have their eyes on Group A. Given the results that have emerged from there , Australia and New Zealand look like emerging as the top two teams. If India can achieve the same in Group B , they will be able to avoid the two hosts in the quarterfinals . Australia will play their quarterfinals in Adelaide here , irrespective of where they finish in the standings , while New Zealand will be in Wellington for their quarterfinals. " Having been in Australia for well over two months and having played at all the venues , we have acclimatized to the conditions well. Like in Adelaide , where we had an overwhelming support of our fans , we will get good support at all the venues. We are not thinking that far yet ( of the knockouts ) and are taking one match at a time. Our focus is on the next match on Sunday . We have to execute our plans well and results will follow. No use thinking ( of a match ) one month ahead , " said the official when asked where India would prefer to play their quarterfinals . " I do n't think there is any team that is planning that far ahead. The only advantage the Group A teams have is if they qualify for the quarterfinals , they know which venue their match would be played at. We , on the other hand , will have to see which of the four teams we will draw in the quarterfinals. But we will be mentally prepared to play at any venue , " the official concluded . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
