I did n't take much notice of Sachin 's criticism : Greg Chappell The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Apr 9 , 2015 , 07.51AM IST In an exclusive interview , Greg Chappell says he did n't take too much notice of Sachin Tendulkar 's criticism. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Former India coach Greg Chappell seems to have found his calling at shaping new talent. The batting legend , now Australia 's national talent manager and chairman of the youth selection panel , has been roped in by the Pathan brothers - Irfan and Yusuf - for their soon-to-be-launched coaching academy in Baroda and Delhi. Chappell told TOI from Brisbane in an exclusive interview that he was excited about being the curator of the CAPs ( Cricket Academy of the Pathans ) development programme. Excerpts.. . Sachin Tendulkar criticized you in his autobiography last year , and a few Indian players who played under you too followed suit. It must have hurt you.. . That 's fine , I do n't take much notice of it. I really tend to focus on the more positive things that are happening with cricket in India , and the fact that Irfan and Yusuf are setting up an academy to develop players. I 'd rather look forward than backward. If I can impart some of my experience and knowledge to their academy , I 'd be pleased. We understand how to develop young cricketers . What makes Australia such a formidable cricketing force ? We 've got a healthy attitude to the game. It 's still very popular. We 've got some good programmes and systems in place to be able to give youngsters an opportunity to learn , enjoy and play in a manner which is positive and good to watch . Can the game do without verbal duels ? It 's important that there is a bit of passion. If the players were n't passionate about it , then it probably would n't be worth watching. Obviously there is a line out there which you do n't want the players to cross. As long as the umpire and the captains are aware of that , I do n't think there is a problem . Do you agree with the recent crackdown on chucking ? I support the laws on bowling actions being closely monitored . Do you think the World Cup was too batsmen-oriented ? I think so. I think we need to look at fielding and bowling restrictions. I 'm not worried about the bats. Perhaps the better bowlers need to be able to bowl more in a One-day game . Has Indian cricket changed for the better since you left ? Indian cricket 's set up is pretty good. They have been some good people involved with the team from the coaching point of view. The leadership of Dhoni has been very positive , by and large. The young generation coming though is very positive. Fielding standards and fitness levels have improved. These are all positives for Indian cricket. The challenge is to keep the game healthy across all formats , and make sure one does not dominate the other. Obviously T20 cricket is the apple of everybody 's eye at the moment , but I feel we have to look after all the formats and not just focus on one . Were you pleased with India 's World Cup show ? It was good , considering they had so little success in the Tests and tri-series. A lot of people were a bit concerned about what might happen in the Cup , but they really got their focus. They surprised some people. The way the bowlers performed was very good. Some of the discipline they showed was n't evident earlier on the tour . How will India find success overseas ? It 's really a matter of will. The talent is not a problem. It requires good planning and preparation. Make sure you 're picking the right combinations and set yourself to play well in those conditions. Some of that would be perhaps getting wickets in India that replicate conditions in different parts of the world , so that players have been developed on a range of conditions that fit them for playing everywhere. If the focus is only on doing well in India , then that 's probably what 's going to happen . What is your opinion about the IPL ? I do n't watch the IPL. We do n't get it live here. I watch cricket for a living , so I do n't want to do that at night too ! T20s overall have been positive for the game. From a batting point of view , there is hardly a target that is unachievable. It has expanded a batsman 's thinking even in Tests. The bowlers have been forced to rethink and develop their bowling. The challenge is to see how the three formats can live side by side. I 'd hate to see T20 cricket cannibalize Test cricket . Are you happy with India , Australia and England calling the shots in the International Cricket Council ? They are the three powerful countries. As long as they have a duty of care to all countries it can be a positive thing. If they lead in a positive way , and administer the game well , then I do n't think it 's a problem.Only time will tell . Mitchell Starc emerged from nowhere to become the best bowler of the World Cup.. . He 's been a very good bowler for a number of years. It takes time to establish yourself and be confident. Mitchell has worked really hard on his bowling. It 's not an overnight success. A lot of people have been involved in making him stronger , making sure his body is in the right position. It 's a credit to the system . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
