I do n't talk to Shah Rukh during the IPL : Gambhir The author has posted comments on this article Anshul Chaturvedi , TNN | Jun 16 , 2014 , 03.39PM IST " I would personally see IPL as proper cricket. I think for me , IPL is all about what my team does on the field , " said Gautam Gambhir. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 In the flamboyant world that is the IPL , two titles in three years is n't a bad track record for the very un-flamboyant Gautam Gambhir. He tells us how he will never do somersaults after a title win and how he gets along with SRK . So when do we see you doing cartwheels after a win ? Never. That 's not me. There was a point when I was n't even wanting to get into the celebrations , was n't willing to go to Kolkata to do all this felicitation and stuff , because I think for me it all finished as soon as we won the IPL . The pure detached philosophy of the previous years ? I do n't know... I 've always believed that a sportsman is someone who will not see IPL as entertainment. I would personally see IPL as proper cricket. I think for me , IPL is all about what my team does on the field. What KKR does , what Shah Rukh or other owners do off the cricket field is their perspective. For me , I think it is all about how we play and people should recognize us for what we 've done on the field. If you see the first three years of IPL , KKR was far more popular for things they were doing off the field. So when I took over , my only personal ambition was that it should be remembered as a team which does really well on the field. So for me , I felt finished as soon as we won the IPL. It was never about celebrations. It was never about doing cartwheels and going crazy after the win . As a captain now , who 's done this , winning the IPL , twice in three years , what are your takeaways , temperamentally ? You need to think out of the box. Second , you need to take some strong decisions , which is very important. I think there are times in this tournament we 've taken very strong decisions. Someone making Kallis sit out is always a big decision. Someone with his stature , someone with his aura . Then , I 've always been a strong believer that transparency and selflessness is the biggest attitude for any leader. After the first three games where I could n't score a run , lots of people told me , " You should try and bat in the middle order , so that at least you 'll get some runs on the board and get some confidence and go at the top of the order. " I never wanted to do that. Just in that one game against King 's XI where I batted number three , it was only the team 's point of view. After four games , I had one run. Then I realized that as a leader you can never shield yourself in any situation. The day you 're trying to protect yourself , it will impact the entire squad too. Other people will also start shielding themselves. They will try and say , " Let us score our own runs and let us concentrate on our performances. " So I took a decision that I will open the batting and I will face the first ball in the next match against Rajasthan Royals , and I had decided already in my mind that if I do n't perform , I would rather drop myself than shield myself and come in the middle order. Because that is not the way a leader goes about his business. It is always better to drop yourself from the playing 11 rather than shielding yourself , because the day you try to shield yourself as a leader , there 'll be massive problems in the team. For someone who scored only one run in the first four games , it is very difficult for him to go and face the first ball . This tournament could be an interesting chapter in your biography someday. Because it began as absolutely the worst as a batsman and a captain as well . It taught me a lot of lessons as a leader as well. Maybe I would 've never experienced these things , I would 've never thought on these lines if I would 've started this tournament on a high , if I 'd scored runs . What would 've been your team owner 's perspective if you dropped yourself ? Nothing. They 've never interfered with my job. They 've never questioned my team selection , they 've never questioned who should play , who should not play. And they 've never interfered in my cricketing matters. I think if I do n't deserve to be in the best playing 11 , I should not be part of the playing 11. Yeah , if I deserve to be part of the playing 11 , then I can lead this side. That is how I want to go about things. I do n't want to go about things where people are saying that , " Okay Gautam , captain , and then the ten. " No. Gautam first as a player who was part of the best playing 11 , who can go out there and do the job for the team. And then , if you think that I have the capability to lead those ten men , I will do that. If I do n't deserve to be part of the best playing 11 , if I 'm not contributing to the best playing 11 , then I should drop myself . This is a very " putting the team ahead " perspective , but there 's also a contra point to this approach. While interviewing Hugh Jackman , I 'd asked him - since he follows cricket fairly religiously - of all the X-Men mutants , who would make the best cricketer ? His point was , " You know , it 's not about the playing. " So he was talking about , say , how the English took Mike Brearly as a captain , who 's a strategist first and therefore captain by virtue of his mind - not his batting . But if you see , the Australians have gone completely the other way. They have always talked about selecting the best playing 11 and then choosing a captain. I 'm a complete supporter of the model. If you do n't deserve to be part of the best playing 11 , how can you earn the respect of the entire team ? You should not be there as a leader just because you 're a great strategist. Then it 's like you 're playing ten vs eleven . My first job , when I go in the middle , as a batsman , is to contribute and try and score runs and that is when I 'm only thinking about myself as a batter , that I want to put my team in a situation where they can dominate. And whether I score runs or do n't , I get out for a few minutes , I sulk for a few minutes , I take off my pads and go and sit in the dugout , and then I 'm sitting as a leader. Then I 'm thinking from the team 's point of view. Then I 'm thinking what decisions I need to make. Whether we need to shuffle the order or not. But when I go in as a batter , I go in as a batter and not a captain. My captaincy skills only happen when I go on the field or when I 've finished my batting. So I first get selected as a batsman who contributes. And then as a captain . How does a team respond when the skipper takes a call saying , 'We 'll do this ' , which is against logic , but is going purely by his gut. Do people give you a look ? I think it 's the boss who is answerable when you do n't do well. It 's the boss who is in the firing line and I 've always told Shah Rukh this. In the first year , when I was picked , I was obviously a little nervous about how much interference there will be. And he said , " This is your team. If you want to make it , you make it. You want to break it , you break it. " And I told him that we will not talk in the middle of the tournament. I think there is no point discussing what is happening and what is not happening. After the tournament , however we perform , I will be answerable to all your questions. Whatever you throw at me , I will be as honest and as transparent as I can. So you can ask me any question , but once the tournament is finished. Whether we 've done well , whether we 've never done well . And he was so happy because he thought I made a lot of sense. Because I was so clear in my mind. Whatever I want to do in the middle of the tournament , let me take that call. Because ultimately , I know that I 'm going to be in the firing line , I have to be answerable to my players as well. If someone is batting at number three , you make him bat at number five , he would come up to you and ask , " Why am I not batting at number three ? What have I done wrong ? " You have to answer him because you have been given that job. You have to be answerable to the owner , to the media as well. So , because you 're answerable to everyone , you should have the right to take all the calls. And I 'm very happy that whatever has happened the last four years with KKR , I have taken all the calls on the cricket field . So there is no 'Shah Rukh calling ' on your phone after losing the first four games ? Never. I can say it from my heart that in the last four years , there has never been even one call. There has never been any interference about who should play , what to do. I think we 've discussed this a couple of times. He explained to me that if someone tells him about acting , how bad he 'd feel. And he said , " If someone comes up to you and tells you about cricket , I can imagine how bad you 'd feel. You 're the best guy in cricketing matters , so you should take all the calls. " I 'm very happy , and from that point of view , I 've been very secure. And I 've had a free hand . You and Shah Rukh look to be totally opposite temperaments. Is it easier to work with somebody who has a different temperament , or is it complicated ? As I said earlier , for me , IPL is all about what we do on the cricket field. How KKR is playing on the field and what kind of cricket we are playing. After that , whatever happens , I personally do n't want to be a part of it. I do n't like it because for me , as I said , IPL finished as soon as the entire team lifted the cup. After that , I do n't even remember who was doing what and Shah Rukh was doing what and other owners were doing what . Obviously I ca n't change him. He 's the owner , he 's the big boss. He 's given me the liberty , the way I want to go about my business. So there has been no interference , it has been an easy ride. Because if there would have been a lot of interference with someone like me , with my temperament , it would have been difficult. Because I want a lot of free hand , I like taking my own decisions , I like taking my own calls. Whether we are poles apart or not , he has never made my life difficult. A small example from that point of view , when Sunil Narine was picked , it is a very interesting decision that happened. I still remember , I was in Australia during that time. We were on tour , the Indian team was in Australia. Our CEO called me and asked , " Tomorrow is the auction , so who do you think we should go for ? " I said , " Let 's go for Sunil Narine. " " So who 's this guy ? " he asked. I said , " Just remember the name , forget about who 's this guy. Just remember him. " Obviously , he must have spoken to Shah Rukh and other owners , then he called me back and told me , " No one knows who this guy is ! " And Shah Rukh called me - me and Natasha were in a mall - and he said , " Should we go for someone else ? You 're saying that we need to go with Sunil Narine ? " I said , " Till what budget do you want to go in the auction ? How much is the limit ? " He said , " Two million. But who is this guy ? Are you sure you want him ? " I said , " Yes. And if the limit is two million , go to two million. We do n't need anyone else. " And he replied , " If you want him , we 'll get him. " And see what he 's done. I think neither Shah Rukh nor our CEO knew who he was because he had only played one game for West Indies before that. And when he got picked , he himself was surprised. So that is the sort of free hand which has been given to me . I see you doing far fewer ads than many of your colleagues . I 'm very conservative. The second thing is I 'm just too shy for all these things. A lot of people after winning the IPL would 've shown their emotions. I still remember going in the press conference and they asked me how I feel. And I said the same thing , " For me , mission accomplished. That 's about it. " They said , " Has it sunk in ? " " There 's nothing to sink in. We were here to win the IPL and we did it. " That 's what I 've been picked for. I 've not done anyone a favour , I 've not done myself a favour. I 've not done the team a favour. I think they 've picked me with this objective that we will win the IPL. We have won the IPL. There is nothing to be surprised , there is nothing to be going over the top about because this was my job - to play the finals and win. They do n't pay me so that I look beautiful or I talk well or I do different things or celebrate better. They 're giving me money so that I can perform and I can lead the team the right way , and try and win , and that is what we 've done. This has always been my point of view when I 've walked down the field , and other than that , I 've just been too shy. I 'm just too closed at times . But you must be getting more offers for ads you refused perhaps ? Or you are seen as somebody who 'll not come out and say yes ? Eventually , you need to realize what you want to achieve out of cricket. Do you want to achieve the limelight , that people should recognize you , or do you want to be known as someone who 's gone out there and done something. Two IPL wins , no one can take these away from me. And there are a lot of other cricketers who would never have this in their CV. They can be everywhere , they can be seen on every billboard , but these records and performances will live with me forever. This is what you need to realize. Whether I 'm playing or doing well so that I get more ads , or I want to be satisfied coming back home saying , " Yes , I was picked to do something and I 've achieved it. " That is a far better feeling for me than thinking , if I do well and if I get more ads , that is more satisfactory than winning the IPL. For me , winning the IPL , scoring runs , and my performance and the team 's performance , gives me more happiness than any other thing. So it is just your perspective of what you want to get out of cricket. And I 've always been a strong believer that I want to do well for the team so that every time I walk out of the field I want to come back a winner. For me , winning does matter a lot. You must have heard a lot of people saying that results do not matter. You go out there , do your processes right , give your 100 % . If winning is not everything , then why do people keep scores ? Why do we always talk about who won this game ? Why do we not say " Who 's given more effort ? " Even when you watch a cricket match , you ask , " Who 's won ? " You do n't ask , " Is KKR putting in more effort or is the other team putting effort ? " For me , winning is everything. You might take it the wrong way , that how can someone say that winning is everything ? But for me , it is. It fascinates me , it keeps me happy , it keeps me on my toes. It keeps me from complacency. Someone asked me after five games , I was giving a press conference , and they said , " I hope KKR does not get complacent. " I said , " My team will never get complacent. " They asked , " Why ? " I said , " For me , winning is everything. " Next time I walk on the field , I will not be thinking that we won five games in a row. For me it will only be about winning that game at any cost. Obviously , within the rules , but at any cost. So that always keeps me on my toes. That always makes me happy. Winning is the fascination which I have . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
