If Supreme Court wants us to go , we will go : BCCI officials The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Nov 27 , 2014 , 11.13AM IST " We believe Srinivasan has n't done anything wrong and that 's why we are fighting this case. If the Supreme Court wants us to go , we will go. There are no back-up measures for us , " a senior BCCI member said . Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : The Supreme Court hearing on Thursday is set to be a stormy one with Harish Salve , senior advocate appearing for Cricket Association of Bihar , opening the proceedings. Even though the case has been listed for 10 : 30 am , the ruling group is n't expecting a verdict on Thursday itself . According to their assessment of the situation , with arguments and counter arguments , it " will be a longdrawn battle " which may stretch for a few more days . But the N Srinivasan group , despite all the stinging observations against them by Justice TS Thakur , maintains that all is not lost. In Tuesday 's hearing , Salve had mentioned K Viswanathan , an old-time associate of Srinivasan and the secretary of TNCA , signing the letter of authorization for Gurunath Meiyappan as the Chennai Super Kings team owner in 2008 . Sources close to the senior official indicated that during the first IPL , the term 'owner ' was very " loosely used " and even the cards that were issued for the likes of Lalit Modi , Sharad Pawar had the word 'owner ' on it. " Not just for Pawar , the cards that were issued for his family members also said 'owner'. It was not a very well defined idea at that point of time and that 's why Gurunath Meiyappan was also called an 'owner ' , " the source argued . When the Mudgal committee members quizzed the India Cements officials , all these details were given and one understands that the defence counsel will bring it up during the hearing. As per IPL rule 11.3c of the IPL , if the owner of a team is found betting , the team stands cancelled. " Gurunath was never the owner of the team , he can never be because India Cements is a publicly-listed company , " the source added . Meanwhile , Salve had urged the Court to make the names of the players in the Mudgal committee report public and if the SC does that , the landscape of Indian cricket might change forever . The ruling group says it 's entirely the Court 's discretion what they want to do . " We have nothing to hide. Everything is on the table and it 's for the Supreme Court to take a call , " a member said . However , in case of a verdict going against Srinivasan , the ruling group members claim that they are not looking at any back-up measures for now . " We believe Srinivasan has n't done anything wrong and that 's why we are fighting this case. If the Supreme Court wants us to go , we will go. There are no back-up measures for us , " a senior BCCI member said . Meanwhile Sundar Raman , the underfire IPL COO represented the BCCI in a programme in Dubai on Wednesday which raised a few eyebrows. But the ruling group maintained that the Supreme Court has n't put any strictures yet on Sundar from attending any meeting. Moreover , the BCCI working committee , too had cleared him to carry on as the COO and that 's why he was present in the meeting . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
