Ignored in IPL , Cheteshwar Pujara set to play for Yorkshire in county The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Apr 1 , 2015 , 09.04PM IST Yorkshire management decided to cancel Younis 's deal and signed Pujara immediately. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Ignored by all eight franchsies during the auctions for the eighth season of IPL , India 's Test specialist Cheteshwar Pujara will make use of that time by representing Yorkshire in upcoming English county season . The Saurashtra lad will be second Indian player after Sachin Tendulkar to represent Yorkshire county. Tendulkar , incidentally was Yorkshire 's first overseas signing . Pujara will replace Pakistan 's Younis Khan , who will be busy touring Bangladesh with Pakistan 's national side . In fact , Younis had first declared himself available for entire county season but then subsequently had a change of heart as he made himself available for national duty . Yorkshire management decided to cancel Younis 's deal and signed Pujara immediately . " Pujara is a superb player , who is hungry to perform in the English game. He is a classy right-hander that likes to dominate the crease and he will be a big asset for us during the early part of the new campaign , " Martin Moxon , Yorkshire 's Director of Cricket , was quoted as saying , by ESPN Cricinfo . Moxon also admitted that they were disappointed that the Younis deal did n't materialise . " It is very disappointing , at this late stage , to pull out of the agreement with Younis. When the deal was agreed initially , it was on the understanding that Younis would not tour Bangladesh with Pakistan. Younis made it clear to us on Sunday that he would find it difficult to turn down should he be selected , " Moxon said . " At this late stage that is no good to us. We had to make a decision and as result we have decided to cancel his contract , " he added . Pujara , on his part said , " I 'm very excited and honoured to be signing for Yorkshire. The club 's history is fantastic and being the current Champions is a testament to the quality of the club and staff . " I was looking to return to the UK after my previous experience of county cricket , which I greatly enjoyed and when Yorkshire made the offer I did n't think twice. To wear the same white rose Sachin Tendulkar did is going to be a great feeling for me. I hope I can contribute to further success , " said Pujara , who has scored 2073 runs in 27 Tests at an average of 47.11 . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
