I had to work the hardest to reach the top , says Tendulkar The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 18 , 2015 , 05.57PM IST Sachin Tendulkar is all set to see his first World Cup match from the stands when defending champions India take on South Africa on February 22 at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Retired batting great Sachin Tendulkar on Wednesday said he had to work the hardest to reach the top , while adding that he always believed in letting his bat do the talking in his glorious 24-year-long cricket career . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " In my career I had a number of challenges. Once you are among the best , the fight was about being right at the top. ( For ) Someone to be right at the top , I have always had to be the one to work the hardest. I always believed that my bat should do all the talking , " he said at the launch of the BMW i8 car . Tendulkar also said the advent of T20 cricket has changed the complexion of the sport . Sachin Tendulkar launches new BMW i8 car in Mumbai on Wednesday. ( TOI Photo ) " I always thought Test cricket and one-day cricket were the only formats. Twenty years ago , nobody dreamt of T20 cricket and in the last 5-7 years , since the introduction of T20 cricket , the game has changed. I find similarity between BMW ( and T20 ) , who have been market leaders for innovation and new ideas , " he said . After being part of a record six editions , Tendulkar is all set to see his first World Cup match from the stands when defending champions India take on South Africa on February 22 at the Melbourne Cricket Ground . " ...upcoming game against South Africa , my first World Cup game which will be from the stands , " Tendulkar , who is ICC 's brand ambassador , had recently tweeted . Also talked about the upcoming game against South Africa , my first World Cup game which will be from the stands ! ( 2/2 ) — sachin tendulkar ( @ sachin_rt ) February 16 , 2015 The batting maestro was part of the 2011 World Cup winning squad led by Mahendra Singh Dhoni and played in a record six Cups , a distinction he shares with Pakistan great Javed Miandad . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
