I hate losing and that 's the bottomline , says Kohli The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jan 10 , 2015 , 02.00PM IST Virat Kohli , who scored four hundreds and one fifty in the series , said his there were lot of positives for his side even though it needs to have more consistency with both the bat and ball. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : He " hates " defeats but Indian cricket captain Virat Kohli on Saturday said he was not too disappointed by the Test series loss to Australia as his team put up a tough fight , displaying " intent and character " all through . The Indians lost 0-2 after drawing the last two matches and Kohli , who was personally in sublime form -- scoring 692 runs -- , said the visiting side considers it a satisfying result . " The series could have gone either way. Even today we thought we had a chance ( to win ) , but Australia kept coming back. We have given a tough fight to the Australians in the entire series. We had a fantastic series , " Kohli said after the final day 's play of the drawn fourth Test at the SCG . " From the very first day , we had wanted to play hard cricket , give a fight , and that is what the boys have done. I think we showed a mix of intent and patience. Eventually , it was a satisfying result but crossing the line would have been better , " he added . Chasing a target of 349 , Kohli said he was not sure about going for the target till the tea break but eventually decided that the team should give it a chase after his own dismissal . " At tea time , I was not 100 per cent sure if we wanted to go for the target. After he got out , I thought why not take a chance , we are not coming back here for a while , If it does not happen it does not. The intent and character the side is showing is important , " the 26-year-old Indian captain said . " These guys have stepped up and shown they have the character and game at the international level , " he added . Kohli , who scored four hundreds and one fifty in the series , said his there were lot of positives for his side even though it needs to have more consistency with both the bat and ball . " There are lot of positives to take but in patches. We need to be consistent with both the bat and ball. We need to be more consistent in bowling. I have told bowlers what they need to focus on because we need to know where we lack . " It is exciting time for Indian cricket ahead. ( Lokesh ) Rahul was impressive especially after the kind of debut he had. It is tough in Australia , I have experienced that before. ( Murali ) Vijay has done a great job at the top of order and the same goes for ( Ajinkya ) Rahane , " said Kohli . Giving credit to the Australians for recovering from the trauma of Philip Hughes ' death in a freak incident and winning the series , Kohli said , " The way they have composed themselves after the ( Phillip Hughes ) incident and come out is commendable. " There were a few on-field run-ins between the players of the two sides in the series and Kohli said that the opposition team should respect his side . " I hate losing and that 's the bottomline. We have to be competitive. The opposition should respect us. They should not think of us as a bunch of youngsters who can be steamrolled , " said the feisty batsman . Kohli said the Indian side can win the cricket World which begins next month in Australia and New Zealand and the experience of the Test series and the upcoming tri-series would come handy . " Absolutely , we can win the World Cup. We have that belief. We have played good cricket in Australia and this experience will do a lot of good in the World Cup , " he said . His bowlers struggled in the series , failing to take enough Australian wickets and leaking runs also , and Kohli said they can learn from the Australians in this department . " We need to focus on our strengths. We need to identify guys who can step up and stop the runs. Australian bowlers , even if they are playing their initial games , know how to set up the batsman and get him out , so this is something we need to learn from the opposition , " he said . On his own outstanding batting in the series , Kohli said , " There were few things which I needed to improve after England , I did that. I tried to be a step ahead of the bowlers. Getting a few knocks in the winning cause would have been sweeter but I am satisfied with my performance. " Australian captain Steven Smith also said it was a tough series and gave credit to India for drawing the final Test . " We could not quite get there today , but really proud of the boys. It 's a very good series win , that is the most important thing for us , " said Smith , who was named Man-of-the-Match as well as Man-of-the-Series for scoring 769 runs in four matches with four hundreds and two fifties . " Tough day in the office for us. We did not get the variable bounce we were expecting on a day five pitch. There were a couple of chances that did not come off the glove and things like that. Credit to India for the way they played today to draw the match , " said the 25-year-old batsman . Asked about his personal form in the series , he said , " Really enjoyed this series , some pretty flat wickets and I have enjoyed batting , to make four hundreds in a series is very satisfying. I have really enjoyed captaining these guys , they played their hearts out today. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
