Incisive Northern Knights hunt down Lahore Lions The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Sep 15 , 2014 , 01.27PM IST The Knights notched up a healthy 170 for seven. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 RAIPUR : Lahore Lions , so impressive against Mumbai Indians on Saturday night , came a cropper against Northern Knights in the CLT20 qualifying match on Sunday . Their bowling was not impressive at all and the fielding wilted under pressure . The batting too fell apart after the Knights notched up a healthy 170 for seven , relying on half-centuries by skipper Daniel Flynn and BJ Waltling . And then the pace duo of Tim Southee and Trent Boult reduced the match to a no-contest within the first six overs of the Lions chase , as they grabbed five wickets with barely 20 on the board . From thereon it was just a matter of how far the rest would take the contest. It was Saad Nasim who kept up the fight with a well-compiled 58 , the highest of the match , but still the team could not cross the 100-mark . Lions hardly looked the team who were so outstanding against defending champions barely a few hours earlier. Probably it was fatigue , as they were back at the ground within 14 hours after finishing their first game near midnight on Saturday . More than the defeat , it is the margin that is going to affect their chances of making it to the main round , and in turn have given Mumbai Indians a lifeline , if the latter manage to put it across Southern Express in the game later tonight . The huge defeat by 72 runs has affected their net run-rate and if they are involved in a triple-tie with Knights and Mumbai Indians with two wins apiece at the conclusion of the Qualifiers on Tuesday , they are bound to be left behind on NRR . Having won the toss and opted to bowl again , skipper Mohammed Hafeez was hoping for an encore from his four-pronged pace attack . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
