India caught in a spin in third Test match The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 31 , 2014 , 07.12AM IST It is question of how long before the Indian cookie will crumble on the final day. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SOUTHAMPTON : Four days of near flawless cricket left England on the brink of an emphatic victory in the third Test at the Ageas Bowl on Wednesday . Set a near-impossible target of 445 runs to win , or play out 130 overs to draw the match , India lost their top four for just 112 runs as England bowlers pressed for a series-equalling win . With Ajinkya Rahane and Rohit Sharma - both guilty of gifting their wickets away in the first innings - at the crease and Moeen Ali turning it like Muralitharan , it is question of how long before the Indian cookie crumbles on the final day . After ticking all the boxes at Lord 's , India clearly messed up the basics here to allow England to bounce back . Unlike in the first innings when James Anderson and Stuart Broad combined to bring about India 's downfall , most of the damage in the second innings was done by England 's part-time spinners . Moeen and Joe Root snared three wickets after Broad scored a direct hit with an underarm throw to catch Murali Vijay short of his crease . Moeen , who induced fine edges from both Cheteshwar Pujara and Virat Kohli , took his series tally to an impressive 11 and has three fewer than Anderson , who had earlier in the day brought a quick end to India 's first innings with figures of 5/53 . Pujara played for the turn that was not there , while Kohli tried to cut one from Moeen that bounced more than he expected and got a faint edge to Buttler . And with Root beating a well-set Shikhar Dhawan in the air and inducing a meaty edge , India 's challenge was all but over within 33 overs . It could well have been five down had Anderson held on to a return catch offered by Rahane at the fag end of what was a fruitful day for his team . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
