India coast as Virat cracks 20th ODI ton The author has posted comments on this article Hindol Basu , TNN | Oct 18 , 2014 , 01.18PM IST India 's Virat Kohli celebrates his century during the fourth ODI between India and West Indies in Dharamsala. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 DHARAMSALA : A day after claiming that his form-related woes are over , Virat Kohli hit a sparkling century to lead India to a 59-run win over the West Indies at the HPCA stadium on Friday . With the tourists having withdrawn from the rest of the tour , India should end up 2-1 victory in the ODI series. But an official word was awaited on it . Starved of a hundred in international cricket for 25 innings , Virat turned the corner against a Windies attack which was totally off the mark . Virat ( 127 off 114b ; 13x4 , 3x6 ) made sure the opportunity did n't go waste and played a characteristic knock. The Delhi dasher first settled in and then went into overdrive , showing his full range of shots. The wristy flick towards mid-wicket , the inside-out cover drive , the punch off the backfoot all flowed from Virat 's bat en route his 20th ODI ton . In two important partnerships , Virat swung the match India 's way as the team in blue put up a mammoth total of 330/6 on the board. He first added 72 runs with Ajinkya Rahane ( 68 off 79b ; 7x4 ) and then came into his own in a 138-run partnership with Suresh Raina , scoring at nearly 8 runs per over . Raina ( 71 off 58b ; 3x4 , 5x6 ) continued from where he left in Delhi , coming down the track to deposit the third ball he faced over the ropes. The southpaw hit four more in a rollicking association with Virat . For most part of its run chase , the Caribbean team was not in the picture. India 's new ball bowlers - Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Umesh Yadav - bowled a stingy opening spell and picked up the wickets of Dwayne Smith and Kieron Pollard which set the Windies on the backfoot. Marlon Samuels ( 112 , 106b , 9x4 , 6x6 ) fought a lone battle , hitting his second ton of the series . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
