India doing well as it is batsman 's World Cup : Boycott The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 5 , 2015 , 09.57PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Former England captain Geoffrey Boycott has said that the Indian cricket team is doing well because so far it has been a " batsman 's World Cup " and they will continue to be a " big threat " when batting first . " I think it is because this is a batsman 's World Cup. You look at the flat decks , shortish boundaries , heavy bats , no spin or turn and you look at the field restrictions. It 's easier than ever for the batsman , more difficult for the bowlers. And I think India 's strength is batting , they have always had good batsmen. So batting first , I believe India will be a threat , a big threat , " Boycott told ESPNcricinfo . Adding weight to Boycott 's 'batting first ' theory , India have won two important games while putting runs on the board against Pakistan and South Africa. The former England captain believes that India 's forte has always been batting . " When you bat first and you have a good batting line-up , there is less pressure , players have no inhibitions , they play with freedom , they can express themselves because batting is their forte. And when you bat first you do n't know what score you are going to get , what score is going to be best , " said Boycott . Boycott also opined that skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni is comfortable with batting first and hence toss is key for India . " I also think Dhoni as a captain is more comfortable when his team posts a big score and then defends it. That is the key where Dhoni is comfortable. So for me the toss is important to a lot of teams , but I think it is more important for India , " he said . India 's bowling , led by Mohammed Shami , has also improved by leaps and bounds during the Australian summer and Boycott had a word of praise for the bowling department . " And although bowlers have had a tough time in this World Cup , the Indian bowlers , who were not well known , bowled really well. There is no movement for bowlers but these bowlers bowled a wonderful line and length. They bowled so tight a line against Pakistan that they put the pressure on the batsmen. Pakistan batsmen found it hard to get runs and were out , " he said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
