India draw pride at Sydney Cricket Ground The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Jan 11 , 2015 , 09.52AM IST Indian captain Virat Kohli shakes hands with Australia 's wicketkeeper Brad Haddin ( left ) after the final day of the fourth Test at the Sydney Cricket Ground. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : As Bhuvneshwar Kumar nudged the fourth ball of Nathan Lyon 's last over behind square leg , the Indian dressing room broke into cheers and clapping. Three more wickets were safe in the dressing room vault. India had hung on by the fingernails to force a draw . Steve Smith should have called off the game there and then , for there were no more tricks left in his bag. But the Aussie quest for victory is nothing if not bullheaded , and the captain decided to prolong Bhuvneshwar 's agony for one more ball . The fight had clearly left Lyon , though , and he pitched it in short. Bhuvneshwar reacted by pulling it to the square boundary . Smith decided he had had enough and the stoic Ajinkya Rahane , whose poise and steadfast backfoot defence had thwarted the Aussie barrage for 88 balls , rushed to collect a few stumps . As the players walked out , he handed one of the stumps to Virat Kohli. Bhuvneshwar , who in the company of Rahane played 69 balls , got a warm hug from his captain . As match-saving efforts go , it was monumental ; over every one of those deliveries hung the dark prospect of another India defeat. It must have smelt like a fine victory . The last hour or so of this match showed how Test cricket has the capability to metamorphose into a bewitching sporting contest. The intriguing climax would n't exist without the flat-pitch tedium of the first three days. The pitch was n't a spitting cobra in the end but it did more than enough to wriggle into the contest . For much of that last hour or so , as a flurry of wickets pushed India into a corner , Smith 's disciplined attack worked every sinew into delivering a wicket . At one point Smith had nine men around the bat to offie Nathan Lyon , five of those on the on-side. But with Hazlewood ( 17-7-31-2 ) - a tour de force of containment on the day - reversing the ball like a dream , Smith made the crucial mistake of tak ing the second new ball at the first available opportunity . Rahane and Bhuvneshwar got an important reprieve. Crucially , India had also learnt their lessons from the Adelaide debacle , showing their new-found positivity could be tempered with the fine art of prudence . Here , as Australia declared overnight and set a 349-run target on a pitch hiding some naughty gremlins , everyone in the young top order attempted a more measured approach . Along with Kohli , Murali Vijay ( 80 off 165b ; 7x4 , 2x6 ) has taken his reputation up a notch in this series , and on Saturday he fought through spells of impatience and long run-droughts to set up the draw . Like in Adelaide , he perished chasing runs as India came out after tea needing an impossible 189 from 33-odd overs. Kohli too unleashed his imperious self for a short while , before realizing the task was beyond him . Along with Hazelwood , who got rid of Vijay , Mitchell Starc came into his own in this Test , and after inducing Kohli 's edge he threatened to run away with the game. Raina bagged a pair on Test comeback. Saha added a duck to his dropped catches and botched run-outs . Runs were hard to come by in the morning session and a 39-ball period of no scoring followed the fall of KL Rahul 's wicket. Rohit Sharma got his first run after facing 20 balls and blinder of a catch from Smith at slip cut his vigil short . Australia , at that point , would have fancied their chances. But their main man on the day , off-spinner Nathan Lyon , was attacked by Vijay every time he threatened to turn the game. It was soon apparent a repeat of Adelaide would not be forthcoming . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
