India fail to drive home the advantage against England The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 9 , 2014 , 09.31AM IST Dhoni missed a trick by holding back Aaron , who had impressed by bowling with good pace and purpose. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MANCHESTER : A sharp shower halted England 's march on Friday and left the third Test tantalizingly poised at the Old Trafford on Friday . Having bowled out India for a paltry 152 on the opening day , England had taken their first-innings tally to 237/6 when rain intervened after lunch on Day 2 . Poor drainage at one end of the ground , coupled with shoddy mopping up operations prevented any further play and put paid to England 's hopes of gaining a sizeable lead . England , who are 85 runs ahead with four wickets standing , owed their slightly superior position to Ian Bell , who logged a half-century before leaving the stage to Joe Root ( 48 batting ) and Jos Buttler ( 22 batting ) . The two young English batsmen , who came together with England precariously placed at 170/6 , played positively to rake up 67 runs in an unfinished seventh-wicket partnership that could well decide the outcome of the match . Earlier , India failed to drive home the advantage after Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Varun Aaron had grabbed three wickets in the morning session to reduce England to 201/6 at the lunch break . Skipper MS Dhoni , who chose to open the proceedings with Bhuvneshwar and Pankaj Singh , missed a trick by holding back Aaron , who had impressed by bowling with good pace and purpose on the opening day . Pankaj , on the other hand , continued to be desperately unlucky in his quest for a maiden Test victim. He came within inches of achieving his objective when night watchman Chris Jordan got an inside edge and the ball narrowly missed the stumps on way to the fine-leg fence . Jordan , however , did not last long as he attempted a tennis-style overhead smash to a short ball from Bhuvneshwar and was well-caught by Aaron at midwicket . The UP lad then picked up his 18th wicket in the series by inducing a fine edge from the well-set Bell to Dhoni behind the stumps. It was a soft dismissal for Bell , who had held the innings together for well over two hours in making an 82-ball 58. His dismissal threw up interesting possibilities , but when Moeen Ali played all over a sharp in-cutter from Aaron , India were right back in the match . Sadly for India , instead of going for the kill , Dhoni chose to attack with Pankaj and Jadeja instead of his two best bowlers , allowing Buttler , playing only his second Test , and the in-form Root to settle in nicely. They did so gleefully before opening up to add muscle to their partnership . With Stuart Broad , Chris Woakes and James Anderson -no mugs with the bat -still to come , England will surely hope to stretch their first innings lead before having another go at the Indian batsmen , who are still reeling from the after-effects of the first-innings horror show . No play after shoddy mop-up at venue MANCHESTER : After sharp showers that lasted no more than 35-40 minutes stopped play at 2.15pm ( local time , 6.45pm IST ) , chief groundsman Matt Merchant pressed three super-soppers into service for nearly three hours in sunny conditions . But the ground still could not be readied for play due to shoddy mop-up operations. Poor drainage meant the peripheral areas opposite the main pavilion remained soggy and play had to be called off. With rain forecast on all remaining days , the ground staff will have to work hard to ensure the match does n't meet a watery end . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
