India game will decide top 2 spots : Faf du Plessis The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 11 , 2015 , 10.49AM IST " I enjoy playing against India. The IPL experience obviously helps and I am going to use all that when I get out to play them , " said Faf du Plessis. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : The Indian fans love and hate the sight of Faf du Plessis . While the righthander is a huge hit down south for his match winning performances for Chennai Super Kings in the IPL , he has been a thorn in the flesh for India since he burst onto the international scene post the 2011 World Cup . And Du Plessis is quite sure about the fact that India are their Enemy No.1 in the group. " There are a few sides like West Indies and Pakistan who can throw up an upset , but yes , it 's the India game that is likely to de cide the No. 1 and 2 in the group , " Du Plessis said . India take on South Africa on February 22 at the Melbourne Cricket Ground and Du Plessis is expecting a full house for the game. " It 's going to be packed and that 's what makes it so interesting when we play against India. I just love the atmosphere , " he said . Add to that the challenge of turning out against " friends " with whom he will share the dressing-room right after the World Cup . Du Plessis agrees that his IPL experience makes him better equipped to play against MS Dhoni 's boys. " I enjoy playing against India. The IPL experience obviously helps and I am going to use all that when I get out to play them. " His icing on the cake innings against India came at The Wanderers in a Test , even though it also had the intrigue of a limited overs game. Four wickets down with two sessions to go , South Africa , chasing 457 , needed 300 more to win , when Du Plessis and AB de Villiers turned the tide . Both scored centuries but the match ended in a dramatic draw with South Africa seven runs short of the target. Had Du Plessis not got run out , the South Africans would have won that Test . " I had some good performances against them and when I take on India , I reflect on those past performances. I will surely do so when I play them again , " Du Plessis added . The South Africans play a practice game against New Zealand at Hagley Oval on Wednesday , but the batsman said that they are done with preparation. " The build-up to this World Cup has been for so long. We just want it to start , " said Du Plessis . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
