England lead India by 85 on rain-hit 2nd day The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Aug 8 , 2014 , 05.57PM IST India 's Bhuvneshwar Kumar ( 2nd R ) celebrates with team-mate Varun Aaron ( R ) after the dismissal of England 's Chris Jordan during the fourth Test. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MANCHESTER : England consolidated their position by taking a handy 85-run lead as they reached 237 for six before heavy rain washed away nearly two sessions of play on the second day of the fourth Test against India , on Friday . Resuming at overnight 113 for three , England lost three wickets in the pre-lunch session as India removed removed Ian Bell ( 58 ) , Chris Jordan ( 13 ) and Moeen Ali ( 13 ) . A 67-run partnership for the seventh wicket between Joe Root ( 48 ) and Jos Buttler ( 22 ) dashed India 's hopes of anymore breakthroughs . Only nine overs were possible after lunch which meant that only 36 overs were bowled on day two as wet outfield in a small area around square prevented further action . The rain did stop around the scheduled tea-time but the outfield had been rendered completely wet and big puddles formed at various spots on the square as well as the boundary ropes which meant that the ground-staff were unable to get play started again . This was after Bhuvneshwar Kumar ( 3-47 ) picked up two quick wickets in the morning session to peg England back , restricting the hosts to 201 for six at lunch . Varun Aaron ( 3-48 ) also added another to the two wickets he picked up last evening . The second morning began with grey clouds still looming large over the ground , but they seemed lighter than the ones on day one that had helped English bowlers wreak havoc on the Indian top-order . The Indian bowlers needed to make use of whatever conditions were available to them though , and take as many quick wickets as possible. That plan seemed a bit flustered at the start as 21 runs came off the first four overs itself , with Ian Bell ( 58 ) and Chris Jordan ( 13 ) setting a hectic pace . Bell , starting at his overnight score of 45 , reached his half-century in the second over of the day off 63 balls. Soon after , Kumar got rid of Jordan , caught by Aaron at midwicket off a short ball . Two overs later , India had wicket of Bell as Kumar set him up with two beautiful outswingers , the second getting a faint edge as the batsman played at it . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
