India in command against England at Lord 's The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 21 , 2014 , 10.05AM IST Indian bowlers will surely fancy their chances of forcing victory on the final day. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : It was apocalypse now , almost , for England as India sniffed a Test victory at Lord 's 28 years after Kapil 's Devils had achieved that feat at the " home of cricket " . Chasing 319 in the fourth innings for an improbable victory , England were tottering on 105/4 at close on Day 4 of the second Test . With the ball tending to keep low and slow bowlers getting a bit of purchase , Indian bowlers will surely fancy their chances of forcing victory on the final day , while the Englishmen will be praying for a miracle or rain . England could well have been five down had umpire Kumar Dharmasena not denied Ravindra Jadeja the wicket of Moeen Ali , who had been trapped right in front of his stumps by the left-arm spinner , whose frustration burst forth on not seeing the finger go up . Jadeja , who had earlier engineered India 's revival with the bat , bowled beautifully on a deteriorating track , drawing first blood for his team . He trapped opener Sam Robson in front of the stumps with his very first delivery that skidded through and kept low. It put the skids under England who lost Gary Ballance to the only full-length delivery that Mohammad Shami bowled and Ian Bell and skipper Alastair Cook to a persevering Ishant Sharma in space of 20 balls to all but surrender before a rampant India . With 214 runs still to get , England will need Joe Root and Moeen Ali , both unbeaten at the crease , to bat out of their skins to make a match of it . Earlier in the day , Jadeja used his bat like a scimitar to shred the England attack to pieces before swinging it like a nunchaku , a fitting tribute to martial arts legend Bruce Lee on his 39th death anniversary , after reaching his half-century . Jadeja , who came to the wicket with India reeling on 203/6 and in danger of being bowled out for a paltry total , spanked 68 runs off just 57 balls in an IPL-like knock to leave England demoralized. His crucial 99-run partnership with Bhuvneshwar Kumar for the eight wicket helped India set England a 319-run victory target in a shade over four sessions . England , of course , had only themselves to blame for having to chase so many on a last-day pitch. After letting down the team on the first morning by failing to use the grass and the moisture in the pitch , England pacers were once again guilty of failing to sustain pressure on Indian batsmen when they batted a second time . The visiting team , which enjoyed a lead of just 145 runs when play resumed on fourth morning , lost Dhoni to a pumped up Plunkett and Stuart Binny to Ali . But when Murali Vijay , who had stood firm one end for over six hours , finally lost his patience and poked at an Anderson outswinger after making a superb 95 , alarm bells started ringing. But with Jadeja taking up the fire-fighting role along with Bhuvneshwar , India were quickly back in pole position . TEN ON 10 AT NINE Kumar is the first number nine batsman in Test annals to post three innings of fifty-plus in a Test series . Kumar is the first number nine batsman to post a fifty in each innings apart from capturing five wickets in an innings 58 not out + 63 and 5 for 82 . Having produced a career-best 6 for 82 followed by 36 & 52 in the Lord 's Test , Kumar is the third all-rounder to post a fifty and capture five wickets in an innings in successive Tests the first two being Richard Hadlee ( NZ ) and Ian Botham ( England ) . --Rajesh Kumar Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
