India in dilemma over playing Ashwin at Rohit 's expense The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 5 , 2014 , 09.10AM IST Ashwin can be handful on a track that has good bounce. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MANCHESTER : After three days of rest and recreation , Indian players showed up at the Old Trafford nets to warm up for the fourth Test that begins here on Thursday . England players , though , chose to keep away for another day . Both teams plan to hit the nets in earnest over the next two days before resuming their 'war ' -minus the shooting. Both team managements have been guilty of making wrong choices in all three Tests so far and face another ticklish test here on a pitch that promises to yield good pace and bounce . England and India both erred by playing four pacers on a killjoy of a track at Trent Bridge where the match ended in a stalemate after five days of toil . Both sides went into the Lord 's Test unchanged , but England selectors were left with a red face , having included left-arm spinner Simon Kerrigan in the squad . India , too , persisted with their fourth pacer Stuart Binny , who was however , under-utilised by skipper MS Dhoni . At Southampton , where part-timer Moeen Ali picked six wickets in the second innings to spin England to victory , both teams again erred by not including a frontline spinner in their respective line-ups. Choices will be harder to make at Old Trafford with injuries kicking in . While India are sure to be without Lord 's hero Ishant Sharma for the second Test in a row , England have lost Liam Plunkett to an ankle injury . Both would have relished bowling on the 'hit-me-hard ' surface and will be tough to replace . In Plunkett 's absence , the tall Steven Finn gets another shot at redemption . Finn , the youngest bowler to reach 50 Test wickets , will be sharing the new ball with senior pro James Anderson , who will be raring to go at the Indians on his home ground after having been let off by ICC judicial commissioner on the 'Push-gate ' row . England are also sweating over Stuart Broad 's fitness. If Broad 's sore right knee fails to hold up , he is most likely to be replaced by all-rounder Ben Stokes . Apart from Ishant , who was seen umpiring at the nets on Monday , Bhuvneshwar Kumar could also miss out with a swollen ankle. Bhuvi , who has been India 's most consistent performer with bat and ball so far in the series , did bowl a few deliveries in the nets but did n't go flat out. This is not his kind of surface but given his ability to swing the ball in all conditions , India can ill-afford to leave him out . The team management 's big dilemma centres around off-spinner R Ashwin , who could be handful on a track that has good bounce. In order to play Ashwin , Dhoni will have to drop Rohit Sharma and go back to playing with five bowlers . And with opener Shikhar Dhawan having failed in six consecutive innings on this tour , India might be better off playing the more experienced Gautam Gambhir at the top of the order . With the series level at 1-1 , it remains to be seen whether Dhoni takes a few gambles or chooses to play it safe. Either way , he ca n't go too wrong as the sixth batsman in the third Test , as well as the fifth bowler in the first two , hardly did anything to justify their selection . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
