India knocked out of tri-series after losing to England The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jan 30 , 2015 , 05.02PM IST England 's Joe Root plays a cut shot during their one-day international match against India in Perth , Australia. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 PERTH : India were on Friday knocked out of the tri-series cricket tournament after yet another spineless display as England recovered from a top-order collapse to record a three-wicket victory and secure a place in the final . In a do-or-die game , India 's batsmen let the team down badly as they frittered away a good start to be bundled out for 200 in 48.1 overs , losing as many as nine wickets for 97 runs from a relatively comfortable 103 for one . England were tottering at 66 for five at one stage but staged a gritty fightback through James Taylor ( 82 ) and Jos Buttler ( 67 ) as their stand steered the team home with 19 balls to spare at the WACA ground. England will now take on Australia in the final on Sunday . It was yet another disappointing show by the Indians , who have now failed to win a single international match during their ongoing tour of Australia . The tournament , which served as a dress rehearsal for the upcoming ICC Cricket World Cup , has shown that there are lot of chinks in defending champions ' armoury as they lost three out of the four matches while one was abandoned . While it a mixture of variable bounce and poor application which resulted in India 's batting downfall , it was Ajinkya Rahane , who some what proved to be a saving grace with a patient knock of 73 as his teammates did not show the stomach for a fight . On the otherhand , it was diminutive Taylor alongwith the flashy wicketkeeper batsman Buttler , who showed a lot of resolve despite losing the top five as their 125-run partnership guided Eoin Morgan 's team home . Taylor hit only four boundaries in his 122 ball innings but played the role of a sheet anchor to perfection. Buttler had seven fours in 77 balls to his credit . While Stuart Binny ( 3/33 ) is slowly making a case for himself in the starting XI with three top-order wickets , India 's bowling line-up is yet to bear a settled look and inspire confidence as they are set to begin the Cup defence in hardly two weeks ' time . Earlier , India 's uninspiring batting show continued as save Rahane , none of the other batsmen were able to sciore a half-century with England 's seamers doing a good job to make a comeback after a decent opening stand . Steven Finn ( 3/36 ) was the pick of the bowlers while Chris Woakes ( 2/47 ) , Stuart Broad ( 2/56 ) and spinner Moeen Ali ( 2/35 ) claimed two scalps each after inviting India to bat . Out-of-form Shikhar Dhawan ( 38 ) and Rahane got off to a slow start but they batted to a plan , rotating the strike to good effect and slowly the runs started coming , albeit in a tickle as the first 10 overs yielded only 34 runs . Thereafter Rahane looked in good touch , as the openers brought up their 50-run stand in the 14th over. Even Dhawan play some good shots after spending time at the crease , cutting and driving with much more ease . But he could n't go on , and edged one to Jos Buttler behind the stumps off Woakes in the 21st over. The scorecard read 83 for one at that time . Rahane got to his eighth ODI fifty in the 25th over and though he tried to play some expansive strokes , he realised the need to hold one end up soon enough . England tightened up their bowling and their good fielding started paying dividends. Virat Kohli ( 8 ) , who had come in to bat at number three , was the next to depart as he attemped a big shot off Ali only for Root to take a good running catch at long off . Ali returned for his next over and got rid of Suresh Raina ( 1 ) , who played a horrendous stroke. The left-hander danced down the track , going for a big shot , only to be caught at backward point . Ambati Rayudu ( 12 ) added 27 runs for the fourth wicket with Rahane but he never looked settled at the crease. He was out just before the batting powerplay was due , in the 35th over , caught behind off Broad . The big blow came when Rahane was dismissed in the very first powerplay over , trying to work Finn down to third man , but ended up caught behind . India also lost Stuart Binny ( 7 ) in the powerplay 's final over , caught brilliantly at first slip by a diving Ian Bell off Finn again. Those five overs yielded only 23 runs . Skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni ( 17 ) tried to stay at the wicket for the final 10 overs but he was finally out LBW to James Anderson ( 1-24 ) in the 43rd over . Ravindra Jadeja ( 5 ) played a rash stroke while Axar Patel ( 1 ) is still yet to come to terms with conditions in Australia as far as his batting is concerned . India only managed to cross the 150-mark in the 39th over and were struggling at 165/9 before a 35-run partnership for the final wicket between Mohammad Shami ( 25 ) and Mohit Sharma ( 7 ) helped gain a little respectability to the total . Shami threw his bat around and was the last to be dismissed in the 49th over , caught behind off a slower delivery by Woakes . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
