India make the best of available time The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 5 , 2015 , 11.45AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : The beleaguered Indian players are making the most of their time off from cricket before they get down to the serious business of defending their World Cup title in a couple of days ' time . Parked in the Inter-continental hotel on the scenic Northern Terrace here , most players took the opportunity to visit the famous Rundle Mall and other shopping plazas near the hotel . A few adventurous ones have driven out of the city for a couple of days to rejuvenate themselves , but most players have stayed put in the city to relax in their hotel rooms and occasionally venture out for some shopping by the day and dine out in famous Indian restaurants by the night . " It is such a relief to roam around the hotel without delirious fans pestering you. During big matches in India , I dare not go out without security. But here the atmosphere is so casual. We can visit places and do our shopping without any fear of being trampled by over-enthusiastic fans. But there is a flip-side. We do miss all the attention we get from the fans and media back home where we are treated like stars , " Suresh Raina said while shopping for a famous perfume brand in the mall . " The Indians here are well behaved and allow us our privacy and space when we are out in the streets. Yes , there are fans who want their picture clicked with us , but they first request you and only after you agree , do they click a selfie or two , " he said . Another Indian player chose to indulge only in window shopping for now and revealed that he has got a long list of things to get home from his mother and sister . " But since we have almost two months more to stay here , I just keep checking out things. I do n't want to lug around the stuff as yet. We are scheduled to visit New Zealand later next month. So , I would rather prefer to buy stuff when it is time to return home. " T-shirts and perfumes are the most sought-after items for the players . " Most of the stuff I have picked is for friends and relatives. I want to finish off my shopping before the World Cup as once we get busy , time will fly before we know. There are just a couple of free days more. Come Friday , it will be cricket and nothing else. The scrutinizing eyes of the fans and the media will be on us and there will hardly be any time for shopping , " said another player . An Indian fan who managed to get a picture clicked with his favourite star said that he was lucky to be at the right place at the right time . " There used to be a time when we could go to the team hotel and meet the players and get photos clicked. But now nobody is allowed inside the hotel due to security reasons. Besides , I have been told that the BCCI has barred players from meeting anybody inside the hotel. Therefore , we have to make do with meeting them when they come out of their hotel " , said a fan at the mall with his family . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
