India may opt for 6-5 combination The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 15 , 2015 , 01.45PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : India are still in a dilemma over their XI for the Pakistan game. There was strong indication that India will prefer to play two spinners than go in with four seamers and a lone spinner. As usual , MS Dhoni was in no mood to reveal either the combination or the team 's strategies. However , India are decided on their ever , India are decided on their batting lineup , preferring to go with five frontline batsmen Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane and Suresh Raina - with Dhoni at No. 6. But this could change in case the pitch has a bit of moisture and is not totally dry due to cloudy conditions . Indications from the nets over the past few days suggest India want to go in with three fast bowlers in Umesh Yadav , Mohit Sharma and Mohammed Shami. That leaves the two spinners , Ravindra Jadeja and Ravichandran Ashwin . However , on the eve of the match Dhoni said that the Adelaide Oval pitch had a fair bit of moisture and depending on the weather , the team could revisit its combination on the morning of the game. The prediction is for strong sun and temperatures around 40 degrees , with only 20 % chances of rain , so the pitch should roll out to be perfect for batting . Dhoni also allayed fears on the fitness front , saying all 15 players were fit and available for the match , clearing doubts on Bhuvneshwar Kumar 's continued presence in the team. " Yes , all the 15 players are fit and raring to go. It is a positive sign for us that barring Ishant Sharma , who has been replaced , the rest of the players are fit after such a long tour , " he said . It is also unlikely that India will go into the match with just four bowlers and prefer an extra batsman in Ambati Rayudu. In the tri-series , India always played with five bowlers , even at the expense of lengthening the tail , which failed to wag on most occasions. That was one of the reasons Virat Kohli was dropped to No. 4 , even though he had an excellent Test series at No. 3. With the batsmen having got into a semblance of form during the warm-up matches , the think-tank seems more confident now with the six-five combination. Their only dilemma now is whether to pick a seamer or a spinner as the fifth bowling option. However , India will have to be wary of the Pakistani bowling attack , led by the 7-foot tall Mohammed Irfan . Despite the absence of key bowlers like Umar Gul , Saeed Ajmal and Mohammed Hafeez , they can still put India under pressure . Under the guidance of two former bowlers , chief coach Waqar Younis and bowling coach Mushtaq Ahmed , they have been coming up well. How well the Pakistan bowlers can contain Indian 's batsmen will decide the outcome of the game . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
