Indian American Jatin Patel to train cricket coaches in US The author has posted comments on this article IANS | May 7 , 2014 , 05.02PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 WASHINGTON : The American Cricket Federation has turned to Jatin Patel , an Indian-American coach , to lead a new initiative to train cricket coaches in the land of baseball through a comprehensive American coach-education system . Indianapolis-based Patel , an officeholder at both ACF and US Youth Cricket , is a national leader in coach-education and a graduate of Cricket Australia 's Level 2 Coach training programme . Rather than remain dependent on occasional and sporadic one-off coach-education sessions conducted for Americans by foreign cricket bodies , today American cricket takes control of its own future through the new coach-education system , ACF said in a media release . " The ACF coach-education programme will make a positive impact across cricket in the USA. Cricket education and its regulation by ACF is a key step forward to better cricket ahead , " said Patel . " ACF 's initiative will provide many opportunities to existing and potential coaches in the USA , and is also needed to educate and develop new home-grown coaches at all levels , " he said . " In addition , youth and women 's development programmes in USA lack coaches and this will provide the needed jumpstart in these areas . " I am looking forward to leading this first-ever American cricket coaching education and certification system , one that will help cricket rapidly expand in America. " ACF CEO Jamie Harrison said , " There has always been a vast , unmet need for coach-education in the United States , one that we have tried to fill , unsuccessfully , by asking others to do it for us. Now , those days are gone . " As cricket grows in America , this will become a critical resource for coaches and teams alike. " " Cricket in the United States is advancing on all fronts , and the ACF coach-education programme is just another example of that progress , " Harrison said . ACF 's certified coaching accreditation programme will also include renewals , recertification and disciplinary enforcements and standardised national cricket coaching accreditation . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
