Indian bowling wo n't lack bite due to Ishant 's absence : Ganguly The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 13 , 2015 , 04.27PM IST Ganguly does not think Indian bowling would lack any bite in absence of Ishant Sharma. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : Former India captain Sourav Ganguly does not think Indian bowling would lack any bite in absence of senior most speedster Ishant Sharma , who has been ruled out of the Cricket World Cup because of a knee injury . " One player 's absence wo n't make much of a difference. The rest will also have to bowl well , " said the cricketer-turned-commentator said here before flying to Australia for the ICC World Cup commencing on Saturday . Ishant apparently sustained the injury during the Boxing Day Test and went on to miss the final Test of the five-match series that India lost 0-2 . The bowling department has come in for a lot of flak in the difficult build up to the World Cup and Indian ace seamer Bhuvneshwar Kumar also appears to be carrying some niggle in his ankle . Citing example of Aussie skipper Michael Clarke , the 41-year-old cricketer said unlike a batsman it 's difficult for a bowler to come back in shape quickly . " I do n't think Ishant hid his injury. When a player gets injured , you give him time to recover. Michael Clarke has recovered. He ( Clarke ) could recover because he 's a batsman. He might not have , if he was a bowler. There 's a difference between a batsman and bowler , " said Ganguly . Batting too is yet to click as a whole , something that became apparent in the triseries with Australia and England that followed the Test series as India lost three consecutive matches in the build-up to the mega event . But come Sunday , Ganguly hopes , everything will fall in place for India who kick-off their title defence taking on Pakistan in a high-voltage clash . " They will do well , let the tournament begin , " said the former left-handed batsman . On the quandary over Virat Kohli 's batting position , Ganguly has a simple solution . " Team management will decide that but they should ensure that Virat gets to play at least 40 overs. " Ganguly also disagreed that the Indian team was less experienced than the triumphant class of 2011 . " New players come and the seniors ( eventually ) go away... This is the rule of sport. But still the team has a lot of experience in Dhoni , Virat with more than 400 matches between them , " he said . " Rohit Sharma has played 120-odd matches. When I first played the World Cup in 1999 , I hardly played about 60-70 matches . " No doubt , there 's experience in the side. You can not have all the players with 300 matches , then you 've to keep playing for 13-14 years , " he said . Ganguly is expected to return after doing commentary for India 's first two matches -- against Pakistan and South Africa ( February 22 ) and again fly back during the business end of the tournament . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
