India need Dhoni to have a good World Cup : Sourav Ganguly The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Feb 6 , 2015 , 08.16AM IST At a time when Team India 's stock is at an all-time low , trust Sourav Ganguly to stand up for MS Dhoni 's men. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : At a time when Team India 's stock is at an all-time low , trust Sourav Ganguly to stand up for MS Dhoni 's men. India look jaded just before the World Cup , having spent the better part of a harsh Australian summer winless in both white and blue jerseys . However , Sourav , the former India captain under whom India made the World Cup final in 2003 , is not worried about the team 's current lack of form , though he is con cerned about the fitness issues in the team. Sourav , who will leave for Australia next week to join the commentary team , shared his views about India 's chances during an exclusive chat with TOI at his Behala residence on Thursday. Excerpts : How do you assess India 's chances in the upcoming World Cup ? Writing off Team India on the basis of their below-par show in Tests and the tri-series would be a kneejerk reaction. It does not do justice to the team. I think our boys will prove a lot of people wrong in the coming days. I expect them to make the semifinals. Thereafter , it is a question of having two good matches . What makes you so optimistic about India 's chances ? I think we are a much better side in limited-overs cricket and our record in the World Cup is good. We have enough depth in the squad , and having spent over two months in Australia , our boys are now quite used to the conditions. Like India , Australians have always been very tough to beat in home conditions.Let us not forget that India will not be playing only against Australia in the World Cup. In fact , they are not even in our group. Playing against other teams does not guarantee success , but I am sure our boys will be up for it . Are you not worried about the lack of balance in the Indian line-up ? I think there is still some uncertainty about the No. 7 spot. I expect Stuart Binny to play most of the matches as the third pacer. Then there is Ravindra Jadeja. I also expect R Ashwin to play a significant role at some stage . For all the talent we have in batting , our young guns have not really fired.. . I expect them to rise to the occasion. A lot will depend on captain Dhoni. His form with the bat and his leadership will be the key for India. The team needs Dhoni to have a very good World Cup . Is there a case for Dhoni to bat higher up the order ? If Virat Kohli bats at No. 4 , it makes no sense for Dhoni to bat at No. 5. It also will depend on match situations , I guess. The batting order , more or less , looks settled . Would you say the bowling remains India 's biggest worry ? Yes , I think a lot depends on the fitness of Ishant Sharma and Bhuvneshwar Kumar. The team management must take a call on these two after our first warm-up game against Australia ( Feb 8 ) . If they are not fit , replacements must be called in at the earliest. Umesh Yadav and Mohammad Shami have bowled a lot in the last two months and have been rightly given a rest before India 's first match . How important will be the opener versus Pakistan , given the usual hype surrounding this clash ? Historically , India have never lost to Pakistan in the World Cup and I expect this trend to continue. If India start on a winning note , the pressure and negativity will ease off . Is there too much hue and cry about the 'new ' ODI rules - two new balls and field restrictions ? They have been in place for well over one year now and all teams should have got used to it. These rules are tough on subcontinent teams which rely more on spinners. With the field up even after 15-20 overs , batsmen have been able to hit boundaries at will in the middle overs. The spurt in big totals is direct fallout of that. As of now , teams have to live with that . What are your picks for the semifinals ? India , South Africa , Australia and New Zealand . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
