India need to get combination right : Wright The author has posted comments on this article Arani Basu , TNN | Jan 15 , 2015 , 11.58AM IST It was under Wright that India reached the final of the 2003 World Cup. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : It was during John Wright 's time as coach that Indian cricket began rising as a world power. He worked with a golden generation of cricketers which made India a formidable force . It was under him that India reached the final of the 2003 World Cup where they lost to Australia. Now , as a relatively young team looks ahead to defending the crown in the 2015 World Cup , the former New Zealand captain refuses to predict anything for Team India . He rather reflects on the 2003 team. " We had a settled team with the players playing together for at least two years . There was the experience of Sachin , Sourav , Dravid and Srinath with a world class player VVS Laxman missing out. We had a team with a good mixture of youth and experience which had good bowlers , " Wright said . " The current team is starting afresh and needs to get its combinations right and play as a team. They will have ideal preparations to build some confidence , " he adds . Stressing on the world 'fight ' , Wright said , " Fight is all you want to see from your team , " the 61-year-old said , talking about what an overseas coach needs to do in India . " I hope this lot can bring their fight out during the World Cup. They may well be in transition but they need to find the fighting spirit. They did n't during the England tour. At least , they have shown some progress in the recent Test series in Australia. This is a very open tournament with no team dominating world cricket for a year. If they can be sharp with the ball and on the field , they should be competitive , " he opined . How will the bigger ground in Australia impact India ? For Wright , it 's the batsmen who will need to put in that extra effort . " Indian bowlers wo n't be disappointed with longer boundaries but the running between the wickets comes into play. Some of the grounds in New Zealand have also got bigger. Bigger grounds give everybody a chance but the Indian batters need to say that we are going to run a lot more 3s , " Wright winks and gets down to his business of scouting talent for Mumbai Indians . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
