Indian media slams 'motormouth ' David Warner The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jan 20 , 2015 , 01.47PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : India 's media on Tuesday lashed out at David Warner over his repeated verbal clashes with Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's touring team , demanding the aggressive Australian opener be reined in . " Brakes on motormouth Warner " and " Talkative Warner crosses the line " read two headlines in Indian newspapers after Warner was fined 50 percent of his match fee for demanding Rohit Sharma " speak English " during Sunday 's one-dayer in Melbourne . " Warner has a knack of getting into trouble. Despite warnings in the past he does not seem to learn , " the Times of India wrote , referring to his constant run-ins with the Indians during the preceding Test series . The Hindustan Times said Indian team managers had decided to ignore Warner rather than react to the sledging . " The Indian team management , despite all the verbal volleys that flew from the Aussie camp , confirmed that the team had decided to not react and concentrate in getting back to winning ways , " the paper wrote . The Australian fielders had taken offence when the Indians went for a single off an overthrow which they wrongly believed was in breach of cricket etiquette . The reporter for the Wisden India website covering the series said Warner 's behaviour was unwarranted and would one day " come back to bite him very badly where it hurts " . " Warner is also the perfect example of a man fighting for all the wrong causes , however strong his conviction might be that he is doing the right thing , " the website wrote . " He does not suffer from white line fever so much as define it. One day , it will come back to bite him very badly where it hurts . " Australia have made 'playing hard but fair ' one of the most laughable cliches in the cricket world. By their estimation , everything they do is 'hard but fair ' , but everything the opposition does is unfair. " Warner admitted he should not have confronted Sharma but said the pair had been engaging in " friendly banter " during the match , which Australia won with six balls to spare despite a century by Sharma , and he did n't feel the need to apologise India , who lost the four-Test series 2-0 , are currently engaged with England and hosts Australia in a tri-series to prepare for the World Cup starting Down Under on February 14 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
