Indian openers finally deliver a start The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Dec 18 , 2014 , 10.34AM IST India 's Murali Vijay celebrates as he reaches a century ( 100 runs ) during Day one of the second Test against Australia at Gabba in Brisbane. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE : It would be fast and furious , they said. It would be over for India in hours , they said . But the Gabba forgot to bring its fearsome reputation along and MS Dhoni , too wily in cricketing ways to get swayed by reputation , chose to bat after winning the toss . It turned out to be a masterstroke as India put on the second-highest total ever by a visiting team on an opening day here. The heat and humidity too played into India 's hands . It was all made possible by an effective , if not memorable , opening partnership which cracked an important psychological barrier : getting past the 50-run mark , something India had struggled to do away from home for 35 innings . The partnership ended soon after that mark was breached , thanks to Shikhar Dhawan 's persistent impetuosity , but Murali Vijay did go on to record the highest individual innings by a visiting opener in the first innings at the Gabba . The opening partnership was a small step in the context of the game but significant given India 's domination of the day 's proceedings , barring parts of the second session. Of course , the Gabba helped. Because of the change in scheduling , the pitch looked over prepared. Though it was evenly grassed , the pitch was a lot drier and there was a lot less movement in the air and off the surface. There was the odd movement and the bounce was true , as expected. But the Aussies strayed in their lines even before the heat and humidity got to them and the legendary menace of a first-day Gabba took a leave of absence . " We are better in these conditions than them. The conditions were similar to India , " Vijay declared after the game. " It was mentally challenging , draining. The opening partnership was crucial. " Luck went Vijay 's way , but only because he ticked all the boxes , crafting an innings of rare concentration , patience , skill and strokeplay. He punished the loose balls , left really , really well , opened those wrists up elegantly and made the bowlers bowl to him instead of taking the fight to them. It was vintage Test batting . On how he missed out on acknowledging the three-figure mark , Vijay said , " I was not aware of how much I was batting on. It 's just as well...after having fallen for 99 in Adelaide. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
