Indian pacers put through the paces The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 17 , 2015 , 11.25AM IST Getting the bowlers in the right frame of mind is crucial to India 's fortunes. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : At the time Australian bowlers were ripping through the English top order in the opening Tri-series match at Sydney , the Indian pacers were being put through their paces by the bowling coach Bharat Arun at the MCG . At the first nets session after the Test series , emphasis was on getting the bowlers not only match-fit , but also hitting the right line and length . Getting the bowlers in the right frame of mind is crucial to India 's fortunes , not only in the Tri-series , but also in the upcoming World Cup . Coach Arun gave special attention to Bhuvneshwar Kumar , who seemed rusty during the final Test at Sydney , where he seemed not to have recovered fully from his injury . Even after the official session was over , Arun held back Bhuvi and made him bowl various types of deliveries , giving him batting boots kept on the crease as target to aim at. He was hitting them regularly at a decent pace . It was only when Arun was totally satisfied that he allowed Bhuvi to join his team-mates in the dressing room on a day when the temperatures and humidity played up after a couple of cool days . Even Umesh Yadav was impressive in the nets. Maybe it is the magic of the one-day cricket which seems to have rejuvenated the pace bowlers. Mohammed Shami and Dhawal Kulkarni , and newcomers Stuart Binny and Mohit Sharma looked good bowling in the nets . With the Indian think-tank having realized the need to get the pace bowlers hitting the straps , after being clubbed about in Test matches , they were put under the microscope and were being closely watched by chief coach Duncan Fletcher . Ishant Sharma , who did not play the final Test , is learnt to be still recovering from a niggle and hardly bowled in the nets. He seemed more than happy to watch the proceedings , giving an indication that he may after all not be fit enough for India 's first match against the Australians here at the MCG on Sunday . His fitness and availability will hopefully be known at the pre-match press meet scheduled on Saturday afternoon. Even if Ishant is not available , India have a choice of five seamers for the first game . It will take some smart thinking to pick the best three for the Sunday game. With Australia in full flow , the bowlers will have to be at their best , because if they are taken apart , the Indian batsmen will find it tough to match their rivals ' effort as the latter have a superior bowling unit . After the session , Bhuvi nodded his head when inquired about his fitness and muttered : " Ab sab theek hai ( everything is OK with me , now ) , " walking away briskly to join his teammates in the dressing room . Assistant coach Sanjay Bangar too was satisfied with the workout , saying with a smile : " Sab ne jum ke mehnat ki ( Every player really worked hard at the nets ) . " Since there was no interaction with the media scheduled for today , there were no updates available from the team management , either on the fitness of the players or the disappearance of Team Director Ravi Shastri . It is believed that he has taken a few days off and would join the team soon . The Indian camp operates in a very closed atmosphere , keeping the media at bay. With the MCG virtually being like a fortress it becomes very difficult to get close to the officials , leave alone the players. It is only personal rapport with the players that enables the media to get a byte or two from them . The media were hushed away from the practice area and made to stand with a handful of Indian fans watching the players practice outside the Bill Ponsford stand gate. It was more fun watching Italian Favia Pennetta and German Sabine Lisicki practicing ahead of the Australian Open at the nearby Rod Laver Tennis Arena , just a short walk over an over-bridge across the MCG . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
