Indian selectors seek stability ahead of World Cup The author has posted comments on this article Ehtesham Hasan , TNN | Oct 4 , 2014 , 10.41AM IST The selectors are unlikely to spring any surprises in wake of the recent 3-1 win over England. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : India 's squad for the five-match ODI series against West Indies will be announced on Saturday . The selectors , who were in full attendance keeping a close eye on the India 'A'-West Indies tour game at the Brabourne Stadium on Friday , are unlikely to spring any surprises in wake of the recent 3-1 win over England . The fact that the World Cup is just a few months away should prevent chairman of selection committee Sandeep Patil and his colleagues from experimenting as they look to settle the composition of the 15-member squad . The dilemma for them , however , will be to decide on the third spinner who , given captain MS Dhoni 's selectorial fixations , will primarily be a back-up for R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja . The 31-year-old Mishra , who has been a frequent flier with the Indian team over the last few years , has fully recovered from the back injury and his bowling figures ( 10-126-3 ) against the West Indies in the practice game does inspire confidence. But then , will it be fair to dump Karn Sharma without giving him a fair run ? Rest for key players ? The big question is whether Dhoni or some other key players need some much needed rest ahead of the gruelling tour of Australia ( four Tests and tri-series involving England as the third team ) and then the World Cup . Dhoni has had no respite since March this year , where he has led the team in the T20 World Championships in Dhaka , followed by the IPL , the long tour of England and now the Champions League T20 which has overlapped with the West Indies ' tour opener . The series against the West Indies comprises five ODIS , one T20 and three Tests . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
