Indians good but Aussie pacers better : Rodney Hogg The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 23 , 2015 , 12.30PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Rodney Hogg was a name that used to invoke fear in the minds of batsmen in the 1980s. The Australian pacer , who still holds the record for the highest number of wickets in an Ashes series , does n't see the 'fear factor ' in the World Cup at all . " The rules of the game have become so lop-sided against the bowlers , how can they even think of invoking fear. I do n't know what I would have done if such rules were there during my playing days , " Hogg told TOI during a chat . But the former pacer is impressed with the way the Aussie attack has performed so far. He feels their pace department is better than India 's and that is where they are going to beat Dhoni 's boys in the semifinal in Sydney on March 26. " The Australian pace attack is much superior to the Indian attack. You have some good bowlers in Mohammad Shami and Mohit Sharma , but the Aussie pacers are in a different league , " Hogg said . He feels that Mitchell Starc has made all the difference for Australia. " I have really enjoyed watching Starc bowl. He has shown amazing control and is bowling at a good pace. He can come round the wicket and land the yorker at the perfect spot. He can be as effective in the death as is with the new ball , " Hogg said . Despite praising Starc , Hogg does n't feel he is still in the class of Mitchell Johnson. " See , Mitchell came close to breaking my Ashes record. He is a proven customer and has shown how lethal he can be. It 's this combination that makes Australia a solid team. I would be interested in seeing how Indian batsmen handle a fired up Aussie attack. " Just as Hogg banks on the two Mitchells to take the Aussies through , he feels the class of Dale Steyn will also come through when it comes down to the crunch . " You may argue that he has n't had the best World Cup , but to me he is the best that I have seen. Steyn 's strike-rate is better than greats like ( Dennis ) Lillee , ( Jeff ) Thomson and it 's not for nothing. I think he is gathering steam and is looking to explode at the business end of the tournament. Steyn desperately wants to win the World Cup and I think he has a good chance this time. " Is there any batsman in the World Cup who would have given Hogg , the bowler , sleepless nights ? " It 's AB de Villiers for sure. He can play all the shots in the book. He is easily the best , " Hogg signed off . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
