Indian team undergoes strenuous training session The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 12 , 2015 , 03.46PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : With only couple of days left for India to open their ICC World Cup 2015 campaign against arch-rivals Pakistan , the team had a gruelling training session to prepare for the high-voltage contest . After having their customary net session in the morning at the St Peter 's College ground , where the full team was in attendance , the players trooped in batches of two and three at the Adelaide Oval 's indoor net session to do some 'physical training ' under trainer V P Sudarshan . Adelaide Oval is probably one of those few international stadiums where players normally walk down from their hotel ( Inter-Continental , where international teams stay ) to the stadium which is barely a three to four minute walk . Therefore , it was a bit surprising when Virat Kohli ( dressed in all black sportswear and not the official Team India practice apparel ) along with Ajinkya Rahane and Mohammed Shami trooped in with Sudarshan and a foreign security officer and local private security . The trio along with trainer went to indoor training facility where the security officer was given a hand-written note which had separate list of three each . Now on the first floor of the indoor facility is ICC 's designated 'Media Accreditation Centre ' where scribes were coming to collect their passes. The presence of three players definitely aroused interest as to what they were doing in a second session after their usual net and fielding drills . One saw Rahane and Shami standing face to face with a gap of around 10-12 feet and throwing 'Medicine Ball ' at each other. Medicine ball is a common weight training apparatus and doing catching practice with it can be a form of training but it was baffling to find the security officer walking up to media zone and instruct journalists to leave . " The trainer ( VP Sudarshan ) is carrying out a special session and he does n't want the media to be present. You guys will have to leave , " he said in a curt manner . The mediapersons , who were standing at the balcony then left the area and sat on the rear side. This time , it was an Australian local security man , who came up and said , " Do n't mind , I am just the messenger but their security officer sent me to tell you guys to leave. " When there was a polite query as to why media would leave their designated accreditation zone , the gentleman said , " If you do n't leave , then you might find him coming again to ask you people to leave. " After the trio of Shami , Rahane and Kohli finished with their session , it was Axar Patel and Suresh Raina , who trudged in for their session. Skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni left for Melbourne to attend the Opening Ceremony of the marquee event . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
