World Cup 2015 : India await West Indies test on bouncy Perth The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Mar 6 , 2015 , 06.33AM IST Indian skipper MS Dhoni , however , was not overawed by the West Indies team and said that the bouncy WACA pitch was not an issue with the team. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 PERTH West Indies are the most enigmatic and unpredictable team in this World Cup. They have been mediocre in one match and brilliant in the next. India will be wondering which West Indies will turn up at the WACA on Friday . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 It will be a fresh challenge for the Indian batsmen against the tall Caribbean pacemen , who are capable of generating pace and bounce on a pitch which has the reputation of being the fastest in the world . It will test the Indian batsmen 's character and capability to the hilt. It does n't matter how well they have done in the earlier games against Pakistan and South Africa . READ ALSO : India hope to continue winning run against West Indies Though India are sitting pretty with three wins , they can not be complacent. They can not afford any setbacks as South Africa are creeping up on them in the points table . A loss at this stage will open a small window of opportunity for the Proteas in the race for the top spot. Whichever team wins this race will get to play the weakest ( fourth-placed ) team in Group A in the quarterfinal in Melbourne . If triumphant , they will then get to travel the short distance to Sydney for the semifinal. This is India 's aspiration too , rather than having to fly across the Tasman Bay for their last-four clash . Though India have been following the fate of other teams , off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin said India were only concentrating on Friday 's game . " We know West Indies can be a dangerous team and we have to come up with our best game. For that we have to focus on the game at hand rather that think far ahead. The Indian team has prepared well and the morale is high. We plan to be aggressive on the field , " Ashwin said . India will be back at full strength as Mohammed Shami , who missed the UAE game , is fit and ready to spearhead the bowling. That is good news for them as they need their attack to be at its sharpest to tame the mercurial batting lineup led by Chris Gayle . Of course , much will depend on the mental and physical state the devastating opener will be in on Friday . Gayle is unstoppable on his day and listless at other times. Much of his team 's fortunes ride on his form. India would like to take him out of equation at the earliest . Indian skipper MS Dhoni , however , was not overawed by the West Indies team and said that the bouncy WACA pitch was not an issue with the team . " We have already played twice at the venue and are aware of the behaviour of the pitch. We are well-versed with the conditions and the bowlers too have enjoyed bowling here. It will be good that we will be tested by an unpredictable team , " he said . He said the priority for the Indian team was to win all their matches and go into the quarterfinals with their momentum in place . " We have a few areas of concern and would like to iron them out before we travel to New Zealand for last two group matches there , " he said . West Indies captain Jason Holder is under tremendous pressure , both as an inexperienced skipper and a bowler. " We need to bowl in the right areas and use the yorkers and slower deliveries effectively at the death and not give away a lot of runs in the slog overs. That has been a dark area for us.If we are able to improve in this area , we will be able to challenge the Indian team , " Holder said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
