India put mind on matter ahead of Pakistan clash The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 13 , 2015 , 09.16AM IST India were without their captain MS Dhoni for half the session , because after completing his batting stint in the nets , he drove away to catch a flight to Melbourne to attend the opening ceremony. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : If the Indians are looking for inspiration , the venue of their practice session on Thursday could not have been better . Founded in 1847 , St Peter 's College is noted for its famous alumni , including three Nobel laureates , 42 Rhodes scholars and 10 Australian premiers ( chief ministers of states ) . Of course , they have not produced cricketers of repute , but the scenic location right opposite the Adelaide Zoo , some 10 minutes drive from their hotel , was a welcome change for the Indian team , away from the peering eyes of the fans . The casual atmosphere , with students young and old on the boundary edges , galvanised the players to sweat it out for over three hours in hot sun . India were without their captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni for half the session , because after completing his batting stint in the nets , he drove away to catch a flight to Melbourne to attend the opening ceremony there on Friday . The most heartening aspect of Team India 's efforts at the picturesque college ground was that they concentrated on the element which was an eyesore during the warm-up matches - their fielding . They had dropped a few catches and the general standard was below par. The extra effort they put in to improve their fielding in almost match-like situation was what they needed ahead of their clash against Pakistan on Sunday . An interesting feature of India 's practice session was the use of two mini-stools to throw down balls at the batsmen. A support staff climbed up the stools to throw down deliveries at the batsmen from a height to counter the prospect of facing the 7-foottall Pakistani paceman Mohammed Irfan . The Indian team feels that as he will deliver the ball from a great height , he would be able to generate steep bounce , making life miserable for batsmen. This novel method should have given the Indian batsmen some confidence to tackle him on Sunday . Away from the main nets , a match of sorts was on between teammates with proper field placements and a batsman at each end. With fielders placed at strategic spots Mohit Sharma and Mohammad Shami sent the ball soaring for their mates to attempt to catch them . Once done with the bat , the duo bowled for a long period , trying to stick to line and length , as coach Duncan Fletcher watched keenly . Amidst all this , team director Ravi Shastri and captain Dhoni found time to have a long discussion before the latter took off for Melbourne . Before that Dhoni had some decent hit at the nets - he timed a few deliveries well and hammered them high and handsome to bring about a loud cheer from the students gathered there . The last act came from Virat Kohli , who played some exquisite shots often clearing the field easily. One only hopes he displays such fluency in the upcoming match too . Umesh Yadav worked up a good pace and beat the batsmen on occasions. Bhuvneshwar Kumar had a quiet session and he bowled a few delivers only towards the end , giving an indication the he may well not be 100 % fit and may not be played in the opening match . Interestingly , Dhawal Kulkarni , not a part of the World Cup squad , bowled for a much longer time along with the rest of the pacers . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
