India ride on Binny 's heroics to beat Bangladesh The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jun 18 , 2014 , 06.56AM IST Binny 's figures were the best by any Indian bowler in the 50-over game. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 DHAKA : Stuart Binny grabbed a record six wickets for just four runs as India thrashed Bangladesh by 47 runs in a low-scoring second one-day international in Dhaka on Tuesday . Binny , 30 , upstaged the efforts of Bangladeshi debutant Taskin Ahmed ( 5-28 ) to help India pocket the three-match series with one game still to go on Thursday . Binny 's figures were the best by any Indian bowler in the 50-over game , surpassing Anil Kumble 's 6-12 against West Indies in Kolkata in 1993 . Chasing India 's modest 105 , Bangladesh were cruising at 44-2 but then lost their remaining eight wickets for just 14 runs to be shot out for 58 in 17.4 overs . The total equalled their worst show in one-dayers , having also scored 58 against the West Indies in the 2011 World Cup . Bangladesh skipper Mushfiqur Rahim said the defeat was " shameful " . " I do n't have an explanation. All I can say is that we had a very good opportunity ( to win ) ... I apologise to the nation on behalf of the team , " he said . " Nothing can be worse than this , I did n't expect such poor cricket from my team. " Binny , playing in only his third one-day international , was well supported by medium pacer Mohit Sharma who finished with an impressive 4-22 . " I thought we needed to score 180 at least but the way Stuart Binny and Mohit Sharma bowled , it was unbelievable , " Indian captain Suresh Raina said . " I knew I have to keep faith in my bowlers. " Mithun Ali was the lone Bangladesh batsman to offer some resistance , making 26 off 39 balls . India were earlier bowled out for 105 in 25.3 overs , their lowest against Bangladesh in ODIs , after being put in to bat in overcast conditions at the Sher-e-Bangla stadium . The day-night clash was reduced to 41-overs-a-side with heavy rains holding up the game for more than two hours early during the Indian innings . The 19-year-old Taskin was the star performer for the hosts , picking a five-wicket haul on debut -- the best figures by any first-time Bangladesh bowler . Taskin wreaked havoc with his seam and bounce , dismissing Robin Uthappa ( 14 ) , Cheteshwar Pujara ( 11 ) and Ambati Rayudu ( 1 ) in his fiery first spell . He picked his first international wicket when opener Robin Uthappa , who made a fine half-century in the opening game , top-edged the paceman to mid-off where Ziaur Rahman took an easy catch . The bowler had the visitors reeling at 55-4 after he sent back Rayudu and Pujara in the 14th over . Raina fought back briefly , making 27 off 23 balls with three fours when he was run out as he tried to go for a second run . Only four batsmen managed to score in double figures with India crashing to their worst total against Bangladesh in one-dayers . Taskin returned in his second spell to send back Binny and Amit Mishra in a space of five balls . His effort bettered that of off-spinner Sohag Gazi who had taken 4-29 against West Indies in 2012 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
