India 's 'Dance of Death ' at Old Trafford The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 11 , 2014 , 09.56AM IST To expect something different from Dhoni 's boys at The Oval would be a clear case of misplaced optimism. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MANCHESTER : The heavens wept all night and right through the day as the tail of Hurricane Bertha lashed UK , leaving behind wet and chilly conditions . It also left the Indian team pondering over what could have been had they managed to bat out the last session of the third day 's play at Old Trafford on Saturday . It is never easy to save a Test match when you get bowled out for 152 on Day 1 , but with poor drainage taking away a big chunk of the overs on Day 2 , first-innings hero Stuart Broad out of the bowling attack with a broken nose and rain being forecast on last three days , it would not have been out of place for the Indian team to seek comfort in Mother Nature 's lap . It is unlikely that rains would have wiped out two entire days ' play , but professionalism demands that teams milk all possible advantages . Indian batsmen could have made the weather their ally in their bid to save a match they deserved to lose. It was n't their sense of righteousness , though , that prompted Indian batsmen to throw away their wickets on Saturday afternoon ; it was sheer disregard for the basics . " For God 's sake man , you are playing Test cricket , " a disgusted former India captain Sourav Ganguly was heard saying after Ravindra Jadeja pushed forward to Moeen Ali without any conviction and got as outside edge to Chris Jordan at slip . India 's 'Dance of Death ' had , of course , started much earlier. When India went into the tea break at 33 for 1 , the odds were on a draw. Even the bookies seemed to have more faith in the Indian team . But little did anyone imagine that India 's vaunted line-up would be reduced to rubble in the next two hours. In a shocking exhibition of carefree batting in dry and sunny conditions against an attack that comprised just one world-class bowler , India lost nine wickets in 28 overs after tea to lose the match by an innings and 54 runs . In an eerie replay of their first-innings collapse , India lost four wickets for eight runs as they plunged from 53 for one at one stage to 61 for five , thereby throwing in the towel. Gautam Gambhir , Cheteshwar Pujara , Ajinkya Rahane , Virat Kohli and Jadeja were all out in a span of 25 minutes after the break with James Anderson taking two and Ali scalping three . In Southampton , Indian batsmen had been guilty of playing off-spinner Ali from their crease , prompting their crease , prompting Dhoni to demand a more aggressive approach. At Old Trafford , where they ought to they ought to have treaded with caution , Indian batsmen attacked Ali and surrendered their wickets . Michael Holding wondered what Jadeja had done in the four Tests to lay siege to the all-rounder 's berth in the XI. Jadeja has scored 177 runs @ 22.12 and taken nine wickets @ 46.66 so far and made more news for his spat with Anderson than his exploits in the middle . Given the ease with which Ashwin batted in both innings here , India will not be worse off if they retain him at Jadeja 's expense and go back to playing with seven batsmen ( including Dhoni ) at The Oval . Despair will continue to accompany Team India on the last leg of the Test series. To expect something different from Dhoni 's boys at The Oval - England 's oldest Test venue - would be a clear case of misplaced optimism . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
