India 's overconfidence may let them down : Shoaib Akhtar The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 14 , 2015 , 06.39PM IST Shoaib Akhtar , 39 , though did praise the Indian batting for it 's maturity. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Former Pakistan paceman Shoaib Akhtar feels that having never lost to Pakistan in a cricket World Cup , India could lose Sunday 's opening encounter against their arch-rivals due to overconfidence . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " While Pakistan has never beaten India in a World Cup , the Indian team may be done in this time for being overconfident. If Pakistan can setup a big target , it could be difficult for India to chase it down with Pakistan 's bowling attack , " said Akhtar , who is one of the experts on Star Sports Hindi . A lot has been talked about India 's dominance over Pakistan in a World Cup. A recent TV advertisement on a Pakistani fan , waiting with a box of crackers , for a Pakistan win since 1992 , has drawn huge reactions across the border . Even Pakistan spinner , Saeed Ajmal , who could not make it to their World Cup squad , has claimed a 5-1 overall for India Pakistan this time around . Akhtar , 39 , though did praise the Indian batting for it 's maturity . " India have a good batting attack and Pakistani batting line up needs to put up a mature show to win this. Pakistan batsmen do not possess that maturity yet , and their batsmen are unable to build big innings like Rohit Sharma and Virat Kohli of India , who convert their 50 's into 100 's and big scores , " the 'Rawalpindi Express ' said . Talking about Pakistan 's team balance , Akhtar , who represented Pakistan in 47 Tests and 163 ODIs between 1997 and 2011 , said , " Haris Sohail should come one down instead of Younis , followed by Misbah and Umar Akmal. The ODI format is overwhelming for him now and he seems to slow the team down. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
