India to host Twenty20 World Cup in March-April 2016 : ICC The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Jan 29 , 2015 , 01.03PM IST The ICC Board reiterated its support for the umpires clamping down on poor player behaviour , particularly leading into and during the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 . Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : India is all set to host the next Twenty20 World Cup , scheduled to be held from March 11 to April 3 in 2016 , after the ICC Board , which held its first meeting of 2015 at the ICC Headquarters , ratified the decision in Dubai on Wednesday . The ICC Board took some important decisions as they also reinstated the use of a Super Over in the event of a tie in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 final . The ICC Board reinstated the use of a Super Over in the event of a tie in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 final. This now replicates the arrangements for the ICC Cricket World Cup 2011 final and other recent ICC events where a winner will be determined on the day of the final ( weather permitting ) , and a Super Over was the most credible way to separate the two sides . The ICC Board also approved a change to the application of ICC Code of Conduct offences relating to slow over-rates in ICC events so that captains do not carry any prior minor over-rate offence 'strikes ' or over-rate suspensions from other series into an ICC event . This approval means all captains will enter the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 with no over-rate 'strikes ' against their names , and they will only be suspended from playing in an ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 match if over-rate offences are committed during the event . Any over-rate 'strikes ' incurred prior to the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 will be carried forward to the first bilateral series after the event . Player behaviour and safety The ICC Board reiterated its support for the umpires clamping down on poor player behaviour , particularly leading into and during the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 . The Board considered issues around player safety following the tragic death of Australia batsman Phillip Hughes during a first-class match , and was briefed on the ICC-supported research project to improve the safety of cricket helmets which has recently resulted in a new British Safety Standard being introduced . It was noted that helmet manufacturers have now introduced a number of new helmet models that comply with the updated British Standard , and that an increasing number of international players have been choosing to wear the helmet models that comply with this new safety standard . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
