India vs Australia 2nd Test : Australia poised for victory after magic Johnson strikes The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Dec 20 , 2014 , 07.54AM IST Australia paceman Mitchell Johnson shouts a successful caught behind appeal against Rohit Sharma on the fourth day of the 2nd Test at Gabba in Brisbane. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 A magical early spell from Mitchell Johnson fired Australia to the brink of victory and an unassailable 2-0 series lead with India clinging on at 157 for seven at lunch on the fourth day of the second Test at the Gabba in Brisbane on Saturday . The ICC Cricketer of the Year reprised the onslaught that drove his country to victory in the opening Ashes Testat the same ground last year to help leave India with a lead of just 60 over Australia 's first innings tally of 505 . India resumed on 71/1 without opener Shikhar Dhawan , who was injured warming up in the nets which prompted the India team to complain about the state of the practice pitches , looking to erase the last 26 runs off their first innings deficit and build another imposing tally to match their first innings 408 . They lost Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , Rohit Sharma and skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni in the first 20 minutes , however , and crept into credit just before Ravi Ashwin joined his team mates in the dressing room . Dhawan 's trip to the hospital for X-rays on his injured right wrist was hurriedly cancelled and he rejoined Cheteshwar Pujara in the middle to see out the session with 41 runs on the board . Pujara had brought the only solidity to the innings but he too departed just before the break for 43 , giving debutant Josh Hazlewood his second victim of the day and bringing in tailender Umesh Yadav ( seven not out ) . Backing up the pugnacious innings of 88 that brought Australia back into the match on Friday , paceman Johnson came out firing and blitzed the tourists with three wickets for 10 runs in 11 balls . Kholi , who had come out in place of Dhawan despite also being hit in the nets before play , chopped on for one with the first ball of Johnson 's second over with Rahane ( 10 ) popping the ball up for Nathan Lyon at backward point and Rohit Sharma caught behind for a duck in his third . Debutant paceman Josh Hazlewood , who took five for 68 in the first innings , pitched in on the second ball of the following over to trap Dhoni leg before for a duck . Ashwin lasted 29 balls and made 19 runs when he followed caught behind off left-arm quick Mitchell Starc , a decision that looked unfortunate with television replays suggesting there had been no contact with the bat . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
