India vs Australia 2nd Test : Australia stumble early in victory chase in Brisbane The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Dec 20 , 2014 , 10.32AM IST Ishant Sharma celebrates the wicket of Australia 's David Warner with teammates on the fourth day of the 2nd Test at Gabba in Brisbane. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 Australia were 25 for two at tea chasing 128 for victory and an unassailable 2-0 series lead after dismissing India for 224 on the fourth day of the second Test at the Gabba in Brisbane on Saturday . India paceman Ishant Sharma removed David Warner for six and Shane Watson for a duck , both caught behind , to leave Chris Rogers ( 15 not out ) and captain Steve Smith ( 2 ) at the crease at the break , 103 runs short of their target . Earlier , a magical spell from Mitchell Johnson ( 4-61 ) had triggered an Indian collapse with Shikhar Dhawan providing the only real resistance before the hosts mopped up the tail midway through the afternoon . India had resumed on 71-1 without opener Dhawan , who was injured warming up in the nets , looking to rub the last 26 runs off their first innings deficit and build another imposing tally to match their first innings 408 . Johnson , though , reprised the onslaught that drove his country to victory in the opening Ashes Test at the same ground last year , taking three for 10 in 11 balls in the first 20 minutes . Backing up the pugnacious innings of 88 that brought Australia back into the match on Friday , Johnson summoned up pace and venom to remove Virat Kholi ( 1 ) , Ajinkya Rahane ( 10 ) and Rohit Sharma ( 0 ) . Debutant paceman Josh Hazlewood , who took five for 68 in the first innings , then pitched in by trapping India skipper Mahendra Singh Doni in front for a duck with the second ball of the following over to leave the tourists reeling . India had crept passed Australia 's first innings tally of 505 when Ravi Ashwin was dismissed for 19 and Dhawan 's trip to hospital for X-rays on his injured right wrist was hurriedly cancelled so he could rejoin Cheteshwar Pujara in the middle . Pujara had brought the only solidity to the innings but he too departed just before lunch for 43 , giving Hazlewood his second victim of the day and sending India into lunch clinging on at 157-7 . Dhawan and Umesh Yadav , however , put on 60 for the eighth wicket to give India some hope of mitigating the worst impact of yet another batting collapse . The opener finally departed for 81 when he missed an attempted lap sweep and was adjudged lbw to off spinner Nathan Lyon and Varun Aaron ( 3 ) and Yadav ( 30 ) soon followed . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
