India vs Australia : Can Ashwin try and turn adversity into triumph ? The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Dec 17 , 2014 , 09.04AM IST Strangely , it was Ashwin 's batting that Dhoni chose to talk about first. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE : Ronald Wayne , Apple cofounder along with Jobs and Wozniack , sold his 10 % stake for $ 2,300. It would have been worth $ 60 million now. Pete Best lost his place in the Beatles to Ringo Starr in 1962 , just before the band hit the big payday. John Travolta turned down Tom Hanks ' role in Forrest Gump. Bill Finger missed out on being co-credited for creating Batman . And Ravichandran Ashwin got left out of the Indian side in Adelaide . How Ashwin , whose overseas record is a very poor 12 wickets from six games at 64.5 and a strike rate of 122.7 , must be ruing the day Virat Kohli decided to opt for Karn Sharma. India went on to lose at the venue and the absence of a potent off spinner was a decisive factor . Ashwin sat and watched from the sidelines - and even engaged in some friendly banter with fans - as Nathan Lyon in the opposition ripped grenades into the rough and bagged the best-ever figures for a spinner against India . Having missed out on the chance to improve his figures and maybe earn India a win , Ashwin , it seems , is now in the scheme of things for the Gabba , where the pace and bounce overshadows everything else. Cruel , cruel fate , Ashwin must be thinking. To add to the expectations , captain MS Dhoni said he thinks Ashwin has a good chance of putting up an impressive show if he plays . Left-arm spinner Ravindra Jadeja is out injured - he has a " left shoulder impingement , " according to the team management - thrusting Ashwin firmly into the lead spinner 's role . Strangely , it was Ashwin 's batting that Dhoni chose to talk about first. " Ashwin is definitely someone who can bat lower down the order. We feel that is very important...at times we have lost No.8 , 9 and 10 cheaply. The batsman at the other end has n't got support. It would be a great help to have someone like Ashwin at the other end because he not only spends time in the middle but also scores fluently . " With Mitchell ( Johnson ) bowling left-arm over the wicket and others bowling round the wicket , there will be footmarks which an off-spinner will be able to exploit better than a left-arm spinner or a leg-spinner. " Dhoni , incidentally said he prefers playing on greentops , since his bowlers have a better chance of bagging 20 wickets. " It makes our job easier to get the opposition out , " he suggested , but playing five bowlers may be a gamble. " It is unfair on Rohit Sharma , who will be out after just playing a Test , " Dhoni said when asked if he was considering the possibility . India have picked up 20 wickets twice at the Gabba , and while the seamers are expected to do the bulk of the work , Ashwin may still get to play the surprise guest star. India 's best-ever bowling figures here belong to legendary offie Erapalli Prasanna , with 6-104 in the 1967-68 Test . There are other , more immediate examples. Nathan Lyon has taken 15 wickets at 21.86 in three Tests and repeatedly said he loves bowling here . " Bounce is a big weapon for me , so I ` m looking forward to getting a bit more bounce out there. I love playing at the Gabba , it 's a great venue full stop , " Lyon said at the start of the season , adding : " I 'm confident in my skill to get the job done no matter what or where I play. " Ashwin needs to rip that page from Lyon 's book if he gets an opportunity . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
