India vs Australia : Combative Virat Kohli rediscovers swagger The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Dec 12 , 2014 , 08.30AM IST Virat Kohli plays a cover drive during the third day of the first Test against Australia at the Adelaide Oval. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : He may have got a wake-up call from Mitchell Johnson first ball , but Virat Kohli carried on to score his seventh Test ton - his second in Adelaide - and join august company on Thursday . He followed Sunil Gavaskar and Vijay Hazare in becoming the third Indian cricketer to score a century in his first innings on captaincy debut. There is also Dilip Vengsarkar , whose century on captaincy debut came in the second innings of the match. No stranger to adversity , Kohli 's combativeness is his greatest strength and the events of the past few months may have egged him on to prove his worth . On the last England tour , he managed scores of only 1 and 8 in Nottingham , 25 and a duck at Lord 's , 39 and 28 at the Rose Bowl , 0 and 7 in Manchester and 6 and 20 at the Oval. Most of the time , his tormentor was the wily seam and swing specialist James Anderson. Then there was the unseemly controversy over whether Kohli failed because his moviestar girlfriend was on tour. Remember , this is a cricketer who as an 18-year-old scored a 90 against Karnataka in a Ranji Trophy game in 2006 after his father passed away in the morning . Kohli is nothing if not a strong character who thrives in the spotlight , and a chance at captaincy too may have brought out the best in him. After India made a hash of things on the field on Wednesday , a furious Kohli told his team mates that they needed to pick themselves up mentally and deliver since they had come to Australia to prove a point. He also re minded the batsmen they had reputations to live up to . " What we discussed yesterday was to fight back. The score that they ( Australia ) made , we discussed that we can definitely achieve this with the kind of batting lineup that we have. That was the target , to score as many runs as them , " said Cheteshwar Pujara. " It was about proving to ourselves that we can achieve this. " From the moment he hit Johnson for a boundary three balls after being hit , to his ability to survive a grin-and-bear-it phase when Nathan Lyon was proving unbeatable , it was clear Kohli wanted to exorcise the ghosts of England. He promised to be an aggressive captain before the Test began , but for now it 's important that his bat continues to do the talking . Dhawal to replace Bhuvneshwar Mumbai : Dhawal Kulkarni is being sent to Australia on an urgent basis as replacement for injured Indian seamer Bhuvaneshwar Kumar. " Dhawal will be flying to Australia on Saturday and we are in the process of getting his visa done.He is going there as cover for Bhuvaneshwar Kumar who has injured his ankle and will come home , take treatment , and then go back to Australia , " BCCI secretary Sanjay Patel said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
