India vs Australia : MS Dhoni wanted to acclimatize first The author has posted comments on this article Indranil Basu , TNN | Dec 17 , 2014 , 09.11AM IST MS Dhoni and Virat Kohli talk prior to day one of the 2nd Test between Australia and India at The Gabba in Brisbane. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : India captain MS Dhoni was fit to play the first Test against Australia in Adelaide which India lost by 48 runs but did n't take the field because he wanted to get acclimatized to the conditions. Dhoni had reached four days before the first Test began in Adelaide but felt he needed more time to get used to the conditions Down Under . " He wanted to get used to the conditions. And since Virat Kohli was already named captain for the first Test , there was no need to rush him back into the team , " a source told TOI on Tuesday . Dhoni was suffering from a sore thumb on his right hand during the fag end of the England tour. According to sources , he felt okay before the West Indies ODI tour at home after getting a 15-day rest , but the moment he started playing , the pain came back. Dhoni still played three ODIs against West Indies before sitting out of the ODI series against Sri Lanka and the first Test in Australia . Sources also said that during his time off from the field , Dhoni worked on his fitness and even lost weight. As the Australian tour came near , Dhoni started hitting the nets from around November 20. He was practising with the Jharkhand Ranji team during that phase. " It 's a long and grueling tour ahead of the Indian team leading to the World Cup. The team needs its captain to be fit and fresh. So , it 's good news that Dhoni is injury free and raring to go now , " the official added . Security beefed-up for Brisbane Test : Security for the second Test between India and Australia has been tightened with more police being deployed around the Gabba in the wake of the Sydney cafe siege , officials said on Tuesday. Queensland state Premier Campbell Newman said security was beefed-up to reassure fans and make them feel safe . " We are concerned about these sorts of actions occurring as we have ( been ) for many months , " Newman told reporters. " We will have all available officers out there at public venues such as the Test at the Gabba and around the streets and the suburbs of the cities and towns of Queensland. " The tragic incident left the Australian cricket team shocked . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
