India vs Australia : Rohit Sharma comes into his own at the MCG The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 19 , 2015 , 09.03AM IST Rohit Sharma celebrates reaching his century during their one-day international tri-series match against Australia at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Cometh the hour , cometh the man. But for Rohit Sharma it should be cometh the ODIs , and cometh the 'bats'man. After struggling in the recent Test series , the highly-rated Sharma was back at his attacking best , dispatching the ball to all parts of the magnificent MCG , in the tri-series match against the Australians . Nobody will ever forget his epoch-making 264 against Sri Lanka at the Eden in Kolkata just a few months ago , which is the highest individual score in ODIs. In different and trying circumstances here , his effort at another iconic venue got him just about half of that score ( 138 off 139 balls ) . All his four sixes were struck beautifully and he cleared the long boundaries with minimum effort. The two that stuck out were the straight six over bowler Cummins ' head early in the innings and a superlative hook off Starc to stamp his domination over the bowler who was the bowler of the day . Skipper MS Dhoni was impressed by his effort and said that he along with Suresh Raina were crucial to India 's fortunes. " Raina has always been good in ODIs. But if Rohit continues to bat like this things will be much better for us , both in the triseries and the World Cup. " Sharma 's run in the ODIs was hampered by a finger injury he suffered in Cardiff last summer , when , after making an elegant half century , he was out of the fray for over two months. He missed the best part of the ODI series against the West Indies and Sri Lanka at home in October. All the while he was just itching to get back on the turf . Drafted into the team for the fourth ODI at Kolkata and despite being out of action for over two months , he played an innings which will be remembered for years to come . After a lull and a poor Test series here against Australia , which saw him making just one half century in six innings , he was back at his best at the first ODI opportunity. His continued good form augurs well for India ahead of the World Cup . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
