India vs Australia : 'Sleepwalking ' Rohit Sharma fluffs his lines again The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Dec 19 , 2014 , 09.14AM IST Rohit Sharma can be enthralling and infuriating in parts. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE : Rohit Sharma can be enthralling and infuriating in parts. His immense talent and lazy temperament have been fighting each other for ascendancy since his 2007 ODI debut against Ireland. It 's been no different in Australia this time around. Rohit came into this series seeking to rejuvenate his Test career following a mind-boggling second double hundred in One-dayers . But both in Adelaide and here in Brisbane , a completely different set of circumstances have tested his patience. It 's not so much the Australian bowling that has troubled him but his own approach. In each of his three innings on this tour , he has got out in infuriating fashion , twice after getting good starts. Each of those dismissals has had an instant effect on India 's fortunes . Maybe he just has n't woken up to the fact that he bats at the crucial No. 6 position , a sort of last stop for established batsmen before the tail sets in. In fact , Australian legend Ian Chappell feels Rohit is just " sleepwalking " most of the time . Those are harsh words but his talent has n't translated to long innings in Test cricket yet. On Thursday , Chappell told Fairfax Radio , " He ( Rohit Sharma ) is just not intent , it seems. Too often he looks like he is batting in the nets. Too often he is playing a shot and not making any runs off it. To me it looks like he is sleepwalking most of the time. " On this tour , the timing of his dismissals have hurt India. It has got to be a pattern : remain unbeaten on stumps and lose your wicket early the next morning. In Adelaide in the first innings , he was batting overnight on 33 on Day 3 and only added 10 more runs the next morning before being caught in two minds and lobbing one back to Lyon. India folded soon after. In the second innings he perished for six going for runs on a turning pitch , and India went on to lose the Test . Here at the Gabba , he was 26 not out overnight and was expected to set a platform for a huge first innings total with Ajinkya Rahane and Dhoni. But Rahane 's dismissal seemed to upset him a bit and Rohit could only add six more to his tally. India lost six wickets for 97 runs in the first session . Rohit 's Test career seems to be sleepwalking too. He got a second wind after he started opening in One-dayers but struggles for impact away from home. That holds true for Tests too , a format in which he began with two centuries in his first two innings at home. The effectiveness seems to have ebbed since . After the 111 against the West Indies in Mumbai in Nov 2013 , his scores are 14 and 6 in Johannesburg , 0 and 25 in Durban , 72 and 19 in Auckland , 0 and 31 not out in Wellington , 28 and 6 in Southampton , 43 and 6 in Adelaide and 32 in Brisbane. Those numbers have their own story to tell. But Rohit is only seven Tests old , and time is on his side. Hopefully , he will get his act right before the labels stick . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
