India vs Australia : Under pressure , India fail to walk the talk The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Dec 22 , 2014 , 09.15AM IST David Warner and Virat Kohli exchange words as umpire Ian Gould looks on during the first Test. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE : Is India doing enough to curb bad behavior on the field ? The International Cricket Council 's ( ICC ) decision to penalize Ishant Sharma for using obscene and offensive language and gesture on the field has brought into focus the team 's lenient approach to such incidents . Both in Adelaide and here , many of India 's players including Virat Kohli , Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma and Ishant Sharma have been seen riling up some Aussie players. Occasionally , the umpires have been forced to intervene in the matter . The planned assault on Mitchell Johnson on Friday at the Gabba involved both verbals and short balls. Though the effort fell flat on its face , some Indian players seem ready to jump into heated conversations with Aussie players no strangers to sledging themselves in a bid to appear combative . " This is Australia , we have to give it back to them , " Rohit Sharma had declared matter-of-factly before the start of the tour , and turning on the verbals has often appeared to be a strategic exercise to unsettle opposition players . But in taking a leaf out of Australia 's book , India may be in danger of being perceived as a boorish bunch of bad losers , not to mention appearing out of character. To add insult to injury , op position captain Steve Smith said India 's sledging has often played into Aussie hands . However , viewpoints differ on this thorny issue. VVS Laxman , until recently a part of the Team India bandwagon , tweeted in sup port of the team following the Mitchell Johnson incident , saying , " When an Aussie sledges it 's aggression but if an Indian sledges it 's unnecessary and foolish. Bottom line India did n't bowl well to Mitch. " But why emulate bad behavior in the first place ? Did VVS Laxman , an epitome of the gentleman cricketer , ever need to resort to such measures ? And is the constant sledging helping Indian bowlers to perform better ? The Indian skipper , who has already been labelled a " whinger " by the Aussie media for criticizing the state of practice pitches , appeared to be in two minds on the issue. " I feel they are not abusing each other , and till they do n't cross the line it is fine. A lot of kids and elderly people also watch the game. A lot of time we are asked what spirit of cricket is . " What I feel is it ( scuffles and banter ) is something you do n't want your kids to do when they are playing. Most of the players have played with each other in the IPL. If anything is within the boundaries and guidelines of the game , I am happy with it. You also want a bit of aggression in the game. It also brings in a bit of entertainment for the spectators , " said Dhoni . Judging by the decision to penalize Ishant , the ICC clearly has a different take on the matter of entertainment . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
