India vs Australia : Virat Kohli promises a good fight The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Nov 22 , 2014 , 10.46AM IST Ravi Shastri and skipper Virat Kohli at a pre-departure conference before the team leaves for the Australia tour , in Mumbai. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : If you read Virat Kohli 's body language closely , it 's impossible to believe that he shall be India 's captain on the tour to Australia for only one Test. Even just a few hours before he and his team embark on arguably the toughest assignment in world cricket , he looked positive and super confident . Munching gum , he met every question hurled at him at the pre-departure press conference with elan. He did n't make any tall claims but simply promised a fighting show by his young team. There was no sign of the after-effects of a disastrous tour to England , in which his own form had dipped alarmingly . India play four Tests against the hosts , an ODI Triseries ( with England as the third team ) and of course the World Cup after that on this grueling tour. Kohli is captain till the first Test in Brisbane , starting on December 4 , after which MS Dhoni will take over the reigns . Kohli made light of the fact that his debut as Test captain would be a sort of baptism by fire. " I am confident of the ability of the side. The guys have shown character. Everyone is keen to go and compete in Australia , " he said , before reflecting on how India 's previous tour Down Under almost four years back , had seen his transformation from a 'boy ' to a 'man ' as a player. f " It was a career-changing phase. I was a different person when I left the shores of Australia back in 2012. I never experienced that kind of aggression or atmosphere. I will try to impart that knowledge to the players and what to expect. I am glad I 've got this opportunity to captain the side , it is like a dream come true and hopefully , we can start on the right note , " he said . Team director Ravi Shastri backed Kohli 's leadership qualities by saying : " It might be his first Test as a captain , but you will see a guy who you feel has led in 25 Tests. " Win or lose , the skipper does n't want the players to feel low at any point on the tour. " You have to think of winning every single minute of the day. That 's how you compete with a team like Australia. It is all about every guy believing what we want to achieve , " he said , before praising his team . " All these guys are aggressive and are hungry to perform. Hopefully , if we stay on the right page , it will be a very exciting tour for us , " he said . Kohli made it clear that his team was focused on the game despite the controversies. " I would like to talk about cricket only and I can assure you the focus will be on cricket. We have n't been distracted by any off the field issues , " he said . In a way , he blamed the media for pulling the Indian team down whenever it lost overseas. " I do n't think the team has ever promised anything to anyone. As a cricketer I do n't see the tour of England or Australia as an engineering exam that if I fail I am not going to do anything in life. It is just another game that you play , " he said. He was bullish about his pace attack. " Any day , it 's an advantage when you have four bowlers who can bowl 140 + . If you have that firepower , then you can compete and plan accordingly. That I think for a captain is a blessing , " he felt . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
