India vs Pakistan : Adelaide Oval turns into 'Sea of Blue' The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 15 , 2015 , 10.46AM IST Indian supporters dance and cheer prior to the Pool B 2015 Cricket World Cup match between Indian and Pakistan at the Adelaide Oval. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Adelaide Oval was 'under virtual siege ' as Indian fans took complete control of the city outnumbering their Pakistani counterparts in the marquee clash between the arch-rivals in the ICC Cricket World Cup on Sunday . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 While the number of Indian fans descending in the coastal town swelled close to 25,000 and the locals made the number increase to 30,000 at the 53,500 capacity stadium on Sunday . The green jerseys of the Pakistani fans looked like dots in an 'Ocean of Blue ' with 'Sir Donald Bradman Pavilion ' stand completely dominated by the Indians . It was party time for all Indian fans as they gathered at famous Hindley Street in heart of the city on the ve of the high-voltage clash. The local 'Fringe Festival ' and the colourful Indians made it a night to remember as the crowd celebrated late into the night . It was no different on Sunday morning as one entered the 'War Memorial Drive ' in-front of the Adelaide Oval. You could mistake it for Eden Gardens or Wankhede Stadium as Indian fans sang the hit Bollywood song " Dil diya hain jaan bhi denge aye watan tere liye " . From popular songs to India 's sports anthem " Chak De India " came blaring out of loudspeakers everywhere . But the heartening fact was the bonhomie between the fans as they greeted each other with open arms. While the decibel level of 'Vande Mataram ' certainly overpowered the 'Pakistan Zindabad ' chants , the fans did enjoy each others ' company gleefully , clicking away selfies . While the Australian locals , in general , did n't warm-up to the occasion but the media did play its part as a local tabloid 'Sunday Mail ' which had 'Swagatam ' printed in hindi on the front page and 'Khushamadi ' printed in Urdu on the back page . If there were 22 out there in the middle battling for supremacy , there were at least five in the commentator 's box which could easily be termed as 'Reserve World XI' . There was class of Sunil Gavaskar , complemented by the dogged Geoffrey Boycott , the elegant Sourav Ganguly in the middle-order. There was 'Sultan of Swing ' Wasim Akram and speed merchant Brett Lee not to forget the ever-colourful Shane Warne . Boycott for a fact was n't exactly amused to find naans and dal makhni being served for lunch . " Looks like its only for the Indians , " Boycott said as he settled for some roasted lamb alongside Gavaskar . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
