India vs Pakistan , on a breakfast platter ! The author has posted comments on this article Saloni Tandon , TNN | Feb 13 , 2015 , 05.28PM IST Page 1 of 4 India-Pakistan match ho woh bhi World Cup ka and party na ho ? Aisa kaise ho sakta hai ! One would have anticipated that the relatively-odd timing of the World Cup matches would play spoilsport and ruin group-watching plans , but our cricket-crazy Lucknowites seem to have found a solution . Cricket get-togethers are now going to be centred around early morning breakfasts and brunches instead of the regular late-evening beer and popcorn sessions , courtesy most India matches starting at 9 am IST. So it wo n't be a lazy Sunday morning for city folk on February 15 when India faces Pakistan , for elaborate feasts have been planned not only at people 's houses , but even at various cafes and bistros around town . EARLY MORNING FEAST Arnnav Tikku , a 23-year-old law graduate and a self-confessed late riser has planned an elaborate breakfast-cum-brunch at his house for his friends on Sunday. " I 've asked all my friends to reach my place sharp at 8 in the morning , since we do n't even want to miss the pre-match coverage. For those who come on time , there are going to be samosas and jalebis. Later , as the match progresses , we 'll call for some Nahiri-Kulcha for brunch. So what if the matches start early ? It 's India vs Pakistan , there has to be something special ! " PARTY TOH BANTI HAI Divy Ahuja , an entrepreneur in his mid-twenties , is also planning a breakfast bash at his place on Sunday. " I 've invited about 10-12 of my friends to come and watch the match together. We 'll call for some pizzas and sandwiches and I 'll serve beer and breezers too. India-Pakistan hai , drinks toh banti hain ! It does n't matter whether it 's 9 in the morning or 9 at night , " he says with a laugh . EXAMS NO SPOILER Those reeling under exam pressure are also in no mood to let the opportunity go. " I 'm having my prep leave , so I ca n't really make elaborate plans. But nevertheless , I 've planned to call a few of my friends to watch the match together. Even though the breakfast will be simple with Maggi and popcorn , the idea is to enjoy an India-Pakistan match the way it should be enjoyed , " says Pulkit Bajpai , a Class XII student of La Martiniere College . MIXING WORK WITH PLEASURE Even though it 's quite a relief for most of the office-goers that the match is on a Sunday , not all are that lucky. Piyush Abhay Singh , a filmmaker running his own studio in the city , has planned a special screening of the match at his studio for his employees , with all the added grub ! " We 've planned to go hogging in the morning , get plenty of food packed as per everyone 's tastes - right from nahiri-kulcha to the khastas , samosas and jalebis - and have a small party in the studio while watching the match. We 'll also put up a screen to enjoy the match , " says Piyush . CASHING IN ON CRICKET While Lucknow 's restaurants and cafes are not best known for serving breakfasts and brunches , keeping in mind the World Cup fever , a few eateries in the city have planned to open their shutters early to make the most of the World Cup season. " We do n't usually open for breakfast , and mostly serve lunch and dinner buffets. But starting Sunday , we have planned to open our restaurant at 9 am and have a special breakfast menu. Needless to say , a big screen will also be put up at the restaurant to screen the matches. We are also working towards including some special offers and discounts during the course of the World Cup , " says Ankit Tulsi , owner of Hazrat Darbar , a multi-cuisine restaurant in the city . On the other hand , Eos , a popular bistro in the city , is opening an hour early to match with the World Cup timings. " We normally open at 12 noon , but for a few select matches that we will be screening , we will open at 11 am. Besides a sumptuous brunch menu , we will have the Happy Hours offer , which is normally valid on only select beverages , will be valid on all drinks. And if India wins the match , there will be a special discount on the bill for all our customers , " says Pranav Chakravarti , Food and Beverage Manager at Best Western Levana . Pankaj Bhadauria 's Tramp Tree Cafe , which normally opens at 11 am , will also open its doors at 9 am on Sunday morning. " We 've got a projector screen put up along with Dolby Digital Sound. We 've also designed a special breakfast menu for the customers. Waffles , pancakes , egg benedict - all are going to be a part of the breakfast menu. For those not fond of a continental breakfast , there will be a special Idli platter and different varieties of cheela. There are also plenty of discounts. Depending upon the response , we 'll decide how to carry on for the rest of the World Cup , " says Pankaj . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
