Opening the iTunes Store.If iTunes does n't open , click the iTunes application icon in your Dock or on your Windows desktop.Progress Indicator Opening the iBooks Store.If iBooks does n't open , click the iBooks app in your Dock.Progress Indicator iTunes iTunes is the world 's easiest way to organize and add to your digital media collection . We are unable to find iTunes on your computer. To download the free app Cricbuzz - Live Cricket Scores & News by Cricbuzz.com , get iTunes now . Already have iTunes ? Click I Have iTunes to open it now . Cricbuzz - Live Cricket Scores & News By Cricbuzz.com Open iTunes to buy and download apps . Description Quick update : The ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 is around the corner and we have you covered. There 's a new World Cup section in the app. Check out a number of interesting features like caricatures of captains from 1975 to 2011 sporting their jerseys , historical World Cup timelines , Teams section to follow your favourite team , World Cup 2015 Venues , Squads , Preview , Photos and much more.. . Introduction : Cricbuzz , the best app for live cricket scores , created by the same folks at Cricbuzz.com , gives you a unique and unmatched experience of following cricket on your iphone. With comprehensive live coverage of all international matches ( bilateral , ICC Cricket World Cup , World T20,Champions Trophy , T20 leagues ( IPL , CLT20 , Big Bash , CPL , BPL etc.. ) and major domestic tournaments , you will never miss out on anything that happens on the cricket field . New and Noteworthy features : Universal App - This is the first truly universal iOS app from a major cricket site. The same app works on both iPhone and iPad . Smart 'Match Center ' - Match Center screen adapts to the state of the match - Upcoming , Live or Complete . Match Cards - Contextual snippets like stats/trivia/weather. Following a cricket match will not be the same again . Unified Home Screen - The new , enhanced Home Screen has all the interesting content of the moment - Featured matches , News & Photo Galleries . Map View for Matches - Matches spread out on world map gives you a unique and compelling experience . Other features : Live scores and ball by ball text commentary that helps you visualize the action as and when it unfolds . Live Audio commentary in English and other regional languages - if listening is your thing . Match alerts via push notification service - so that you do n't miss THE moment Latest cricket news and editorials - to keep you posted on the latest happenings . Upcoming matches - what 's up for tomorrow , next week , next month ? Results of recently completed matches - in case you missed a match . Photos - because a picture is worth a thousand words and all that . Player profiles - Cricket is all about the players - runs , wickets and everything else . Player and Team Rankings for ODI , Test , and T20I - know the current ranking of your favorite player , always . Points tables for all major tournaments - which team is at the top and who well get knocked out ? Whether you are a seasoned follower of the game ( followed Tendulkar since his debut ? ) or a new fan ( did T20 pull you in ? ) Cricbuzz app has you covered . What 's New in Version 5.5 - Bug fixes and stability improvements Screenshots
