India vs Pakistan : World Cup history The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Feb 12 , 2015 , 04.12PM IST India , Pakistan will square off at the Adelaide Oval on February 15. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : The World Cup may start from February 14 but for the Indian sub-continent , the tournament will well and truly begin a day after when defending champions India face traditional rivals Pakistan in a Group B match at the Adelaide Oval . The two neighbours have a rich history of fierce battles on the cricket ground and each encounter sees partisan feelings rise to a feverish pitch. While Pakistan enjoy a considerable advantage in the overall One-Day International ( ODI ) head-to-head count , claiming 72 of the 126 battles , India possess a 5-0 scoreline in the World Cup matches . The build-up to the tournament has been , expectedly , overshadowed by the expectations of the supporters of the two nations regarding the outcome of the match. For most of them , a victory against the traditional rivals is as good as winning the Cup . Justifying all the hype , the tickets for the eagerly-awaited contest were sold out in 20 minutes for the 50,000-capacity stadium , with the South Australian government expecting around 20,000 Indian travellers for the marquee clash . While experts , comprising former players and famous voices of the game , all busy airing their opinion about the high-octane clash , expect it to be the most watched match in the sport 's history , a quick glance at the past World Cup battles reveals some interesting aspects of the coloured rivalry . 1992 - India won by 43 runs It was the first time that the two nations met at a World Cup match. India , buoyed by a young and emerging Sachin Tendulkar 's fine unbeaten knock of 54 runs , posted 216 and bowled out Pakistan for 173 to register a convincing victory . 1996 - India won by 39 runs This quarter-final match , played at a packed M. Chinnaswamy Stadium in Bangalore , was keenly-contested. While opener Navjot Singh Sidhu scored an authoritative 93 to set India a strong platform , middle-order batsman Ajay Jadeja put the finishing touches to the innings , blasting a 25-ball 45 -- being particularly severe on pacer Waqar Younis -- to enable India post a commanding 287 for eight on the board . Pakistan 's response was aggressive and their openers Saeed Anwar and Aamir Sohail threatened to take the match away. But a middle-order collapse , triggered by tight slow bowling by spinners Anil Kumble and Venkatpathy Raju , guided India to victory , despite the best efforts of veteran batsmen Javed Miandad and Salim Malik . 1999 - India won by 47 runs India batted first for the third consecutive Cup game and posted a respectable total of 227 for six wickets. Their total was driven by useful knocks from Tendulkar ( 45 ) , Rahul Dravid ( 61 ) and skipper Mohammed Azharuddin ( 59 ) . Pakistan 's batting once again let them down , getting dismissed for 180 in 45.3 overs. They crumbled to the pace duo of Venkatesh Prasad ( 5/27 ) and Javagal Srinath ( 3/37 ) . 2003 - India won by 6 wickets Even batting first could n't reverse the tide for Pakistan despite their posting a strong total of 273. Opener Anwar , always a threat to India , hit a fine century ( 101 ) but he was eclipsed by graceful hitting from Tendulkar ( 98 ) who , together with fellow opener Virender Sehwag ( 21 ) , launched a stunning attack on the famed pace trio of Wasim Akram , Shoaib Akhtar and Waqar Younis . Dravid ( 44 * ) and Yuvraj Singh ( 50 * ) also played crucial knocks to seal victory with 26 balls to spare . 2011 - India won by 29 runs Tendulkar ( 85 ) again rose to the occasion in a crunch semifinal and helped India to a fighting total of 260 for nine. The home team was well placed to post a superior total but was restricted by left-arm pacer Wahab Riaz ( 5/46 ) . Pakistan 's response was typical , a strong start followed by a middle-order failure. The onus fell on the reliable Misbah-ul-Haq ( 56 ) to pull Pakistan through but he ran out of partners and ultimately was the last person to be dismissed. Indian bowlers collectively put up a superb performance with all five frontliners picking up two wickets each on their way to title glory . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
