India will challenge Australia Down Under : Steve Waugh The author has posted comments on this article Ehtesham Hasan , TNN | Jul 22 , 2014 , 10.18AM IST Waugh 's approach is in stark contrast with Dhoni , who has more often than not chosen to end Tests in draws. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : As he mingled with the kids from neighbouring villages , the instructors at the Magic Bus Learning & Development Centre near Karjat were a little confused how they should introduce Steve Waugh to the 10 or 12 year olds who 've never watched him play cricket on television . As they tried hard , one of them said in Marathi , " He is cricket 's most successful captain ever...he won 41 Tests for Australia. " There could n't have been a more fitting way to introduce the 49-yearold. The bottom line was that Waugh was always 'in it to win it ' and even if he had pocketed a series he would still go out looking for a win . His approach is in stark contrast with India skipper MS Dhoni , who has more often than not chosen to end Tests in draws when he could have pressed on for a win. The win at Lord 's on Monday though changed that . " I do n't follow cricket that closely these days...but I 'm surprised he chooses to do it ( settle for draws ) . You got to be prepared to lose a Test to win it. There 's so much competition between various sports these days that you need to put out a good product. People want to see results , " said Waugh . Ask him if Dhoni needs to think about giving up a format having been in the hot seat since 2007 , he says , " He 's a street smart guy. He 'll work that out. In a lot of ways it is not his decision you have the selectors for that. " Having watched India from close quarters at Lord 's , Waugh feels that this Indian team could challenge Australia later this year . " I was very encouraged by Shami and Kumar the other day. They bowled really well. I was impressed with Ishant Sharma . I do n't know why Ashwin is not playing. The batting is very good and there is no reason why they ca n't be very competitive , " he says . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
