In-form Robin Uthappa in fray for ODIs The author has posted comments on this article TNN | May 28 , 2014 , 10.56AM IST Uthappa has scored over 630 runs in the IPL so far for KKR. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : The red-hot form shown by Karnataka 's Robin Uthappa in the domestic season and in the IPL for KKR could see him earn an India recall at least in the shorter version as the selectors meet today to pick the teams for the three-match ODI series in Bangladesh and the tour of England where India will play five Tests , five ODIs and one T20 . It is very likely that the Sandeep Patil-led committee could rest skipper MS Dhoni and prolific No. 3 bat Virat Kohli for the Bangladesh leg . That means the team could be led by Suresh Raina or Rohit Sharma. The selectors may opt for the former as he has led India in the past in Zimbabwe ( 2010 ) and West Indies ( 2011 ) . Uthappa has scored over 630 runs in the IPL so far for KKR and is a certainty for the three ODIs in Bangladesh as he can also keep wickets. Kerala and Rajasthan Royals stumper Sanju Samson and Wriddhiman Saha of Bengal and Kings XI could be the second keeper . The selectors could also reward leggies Karn Sharma ( Railways and Sunrisers ) and Yuzvendra Chahal ( Haryana and Royal Challengers ) for their exploits in the IPL with a berth for the Bangladesh tour . Considering the immense workload that he has endured recently , pacer Mohammad Shami could get a rest for Bangladesh as he will be needed in England . While the team for Bangladesh is n't so much of a problem , the selectors will have to think hard before picking the side for England. The opening position will be up for grabs again after Murali Vijay has failed to come good in New Zealand and even struggled in the IPL . They may invest in young openers like KL Rahul or Karun Nair and throw them in the deep end of the pool to partner Shikhar Dhawan. It would mean a deja vu to the scenario in 1996 when Sourav Ganguly and Rahul Dravid were picked for the England tour despite opposition from certain quarters and that move clicked big time . There could be a case in point to recall southpaw Gautam Gambhir after his exploits in the Ranji Trophy where he scored almost 600 runs for Delhi on spicy wickets . In fact , Dhoni had admitted in his press conference prior to the tour of New Zealand that he would have preferred Gambhir as the third opener. Whether that translates into backing for the batsman is another matter . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
