'Injured ' Dhoni to miss first Australia Test The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Nov 11 , 2014 , 10.55AM IST Dhoni will be missing the opening Test due to a forearm injury that was curiously not revealed till now. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Opener KL Rahul and leg-spinner Karn Sharma are the two new faces for the four-Test series in Australia , starting on December 4. Suresh Raina also earned a recall in the 19-man jumbo squad that the national selectors picked on Monday . The biggest surprise , however , is that captain MS Dhoni will be missing the opening Test due to a forearm injury that was curiously not revealed till now. He was supposed to have only been rested for the ongoing one-day series against Sri Lanka . " Virat Kohli will lead India in the first Test in Brisbane , " BCCI secretary Sanjay Patel said in a statement . Interestingly , the selectors are sticking to the rest-to-Dhoni theory. " Dhoni has been rested for the Test as a prophylactic measure to ensure optimum recovery. He will join the team by the second Test , and will lead the team for the rest of the Test series , " the statement added . Wriddhiman Saha , who was originally a standby for Dhoni , will keep wickets in Dhoni 's absence ; Naman Ojha will be Saha 's backup but he will return once Dhoni is fit enough to wear the big gloves . Kohli is thus set to make his Test captaincy debut , in what is surely going to be a baptism by fire. Meanwhile , in-form opener Shikhar Dhawan and all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja have been rested for the last two ODIs against Sri Lanka in Kolkata ( November 13 ) and Ranchi ( Nov. 16 ) ; Robin Uthappa and Rohit Sharma come in their place while Vinay Kumar takes the place of injured paceman Ishant Sharma . Jadeja , interestingly , has managed to retain his Test spot despite a serious question mark against his ability in the longer format. Rahul 's selection is n't a surprise , considering that the 22year-old Karnataka bat hit centuries in both innings of the Duleep Trophy final recently , besides ending up as the second-highest run-scorer in the Ranji Trophy last season ( 1035 @ 6886 with three hundreds ) . His inclusion , at Gautam Gambhir 's expense , should keep Dhawan and Murali Vijay on their toes . Karn has made the cut largely on the basis of his performances for Sunrisers Hyderabad ( 11 wickets in 13 games ) than Railways - he has 66 wickets in 34 First Class games to show so far . Perhaps his all-round ability helped him edge out the unlucky Amit Mishra . Karn offers a refreshing option of an attacking leg-spinner , especially with Jadeja and Ashwin , both , struggling to make an impact outside the subcontinent . Raina , who has been in tremendous form in One-day cricket of late , has been included in the Test squad for the first time since September 2012. In this context , the in-touch Ambati Rayudu can consider himself unfortunate to have been left out. With five seamers , the pace department looks well-rounded ; however , Ishant Sharma , Mohammad Shami and Varun Aaron will all be coming off injuries which is not a good omen . POINTS TO PONDER The 19-man squad for the Oz Test series holds promise , but there are factors which may go against India as they try to stem the tide of overseas losses. TOI looks at the problem areas : Inexperience : On a long tour , experience does come into play. The team 's most experienced player is skipper Dhoni , with 88 Tests under his belt , and he himself will be missing from the first Test. Ishant Sharma , with 58 games , is next on this count. Apart from these two , only Virat Kohli , Umesh Yadav and Wriddhiman Saha have played Test cricket Down Under . Fragile batting : The problems for India start at the top. Murali Vijay tapered off after the first couple of Tests in England , while Shikhar Dhawan ( 122 runs in three Tests ) was a failure. The reserve opener , KL Rahul , is yet to make his debut. Cheteshwar Pujara and Kohli had a miserable time in England. With the Tests against Windies scuttled , Pujara had to make do with county and domestic cricket in India. Kohli has bounced back , but it is anybody 's guess if the weaknesses exploited by James Anderson wo n't be targeted by a rampaging Mitchell Johnson. The ever-improving Ajinkya Rahane and Dhoni give some hope in the lower-middle order , but the latter 's absence in the first Test will hurt . No spin in the tale : R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja have looked lethal in India , but toothless outside it. Ashwin has taken all of 12 wickets in six Tests , as against 95 at home , in his 21-Test career. Jadeja took 9 wickets in four Tests in England , before he was dumped in the final Test. Karn Sharma is still untested in international waters . Pace dept. or casualty ward ? : Three of the five pacemen travelling Down Under are injured currently. Mohammad Shami has a bad toe , while Varun Aaron and Ishant Sharma suffered injuries during the ODI series against Sri Lanka. It is open to speculation whether Bhuvneshwar Kumar , who was rested against Lanka , is suffering an injury too. Umesh Yadav , too , is injury prone . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
