Injured Ishant Sharma ruled out of World Cup , Mohit Sharma likely to replace him The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 7 , 2015 , 05.36PM IST " We had Mohit Sharma as stand-by and he will be inducted into the World Cup squad , " a top BCCI source said. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : India 's senior-most pacer Ishant Sharma was on Saturday ruled out of the Cricket World Cup owing to a knee injury after he was the only one among the four injured cricketers who failed in the fitness test . The injured quartet of Ishant Sharma , Rohit Sharma , Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Ravindra Jadeja went through rigourous fitness drills and the lanky paceman , who last played during the Boxing Day Test match in Sydney was clearly not in best physical condition . " It 's confirmed that Ishant has been ruled out and will not recover in time to play the World Cup. As per regulations , we had Mohit Sharma as stand-by and he will be inducted into the World Cup squad. Ishant is likely to return home , " a top BCCI source said on Saturday . " Rohit Sharma ( hamstring ) , Bhuvneshwar Kumar ( ankle ) and Ravindra Jadeja ( shoulder ) have passed the fitness test. However to confirm their match fitness , the trio will need to go through the grind during the warm-up games against Australia and Afghanistan . " The team management will need to check as to how Jadeja shapes up while throwing from the deep. That they ( Rohit and Bhuvneshwar ) have reported fit is the reason that they were presented for the Open Media Session , " the source added . The BCCI has not yet issued any official statement on Ishant 's withdrawal from the team and his replacement yet . Ishant Sharma was ruled out of the World Cup owing to a knee injury. ( AFP Photo ) Recently , after a four-week lay-off , the 26-year-old Ishant was picked to check his fitness during one of the tri-nation series match against Australia on January 26 at the Sydney Cricket Ground ( SCG ) . However the match was abandoned after 16 overs and Ishant did n't get a chance to bowl . But according to team insiders , in the very next match against England at Perth on January 30 , he again reported unfit which raised a lot of eye brows as India neither played nor had any practice session in interim . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
