Injured Rohit Sharma out of Champions League Twenty20 The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Sep 11 , 2014 , 01.37PM IST Rohit had led MI to twin victories ­ IPL and CLT20 last year. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 RAIPUR : Mumbai Indians will be without their skipper Rohit Sharma for the entire Champions League T20 championship , both in the qualifying round and in the main round , if they make the grade . " Rohit Sharma will not be playing in the CLT20. We kept our options open for as long as possible. But he has yet to recover from the finger fracture he suffered on the England tour. Besides , he has issues with his shoulder. So we thought it prudent not to name him in the squad. We will decide on who will replace him as the skipper in the next 24 hours , " Wright told media persons on Wednesday . Sharma sustained a fracture on his middle finger during the second ODI against England at Cardiff and missed the remaining 3 ODIs and the one-off T20 that followed . The India ODI opener has been diagnosed with a shoulder problem too. Rohit visited the National Cricket Academy ( NCA ) recently , where the physiotherapists ruled him out for at least a month . This makes the 27-year-old doubtful for the ODI series against the West Indies , which will begin from October 8 in Kochi. Speaking after arriving with MI for the CL20 qualifiers , which will begin from September 13 , Wright informed that the team would name the new skipper on Thursday . Three top players -Sri Lanka 's ace seamer Lasith Malinga , discarded India off-spinner Harbhajan Singh and powerful middle-order batsman Kieron Pollard , are in contention for MI captaincy now . Rohit had led MI to twin victories - IPL and CLT20 last year . Mumbai Indians , who will first take on Lahore Lions in the qualifier on September 13 , went through the paces at the Rajkumar College ground which is in the city , unlike the main venue , the new Shaheed Veer Narayan Singh Stadium in Naya Raipur , which is about 30 km from the city . The stadium had hosted a couple of IPL matches involving the Delhi Daredevils earlier this year Rohit has been a vital cog in the wheel for MI over the last few years and played a big role in the franchise recording victories in the IPL and CLT20 last year . But having finished fourth in the IPL this season , they are forced to play the qualifying rounds in order to make the main draw. Wright called Rohit 's a big blow , but expressed confidence in the team . " We have players who have done well for us in the past and we expect them to be successful again. We expect every player to perform well. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
