Injuries could be window of opportunity for India The author has posted comments on this article Avijit Ghosh , TNN | Feb 5 , 2015 , 10.58AM IST As early as January 2014 , Dhoni had announced that " as of now , both our ODI and Test squads look quite settled " . ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Sunil Gavaskar suggests R Ashwin as an opener. Ian Chappell thinks Stuart Binny is suitable for the part. And Mohinder Amarnath writes that captain MS Dhoni could be considered for the role . A week before the 2015 cricket World Cup begins , nothing illustrates the chaos in the Indian camp better than these desperate attempts to find a partner for opener Rohit Sharma . Ironically , Rohit himself is injured ! Team India , owned by the richest board in the cricket world , is in deeper trouble than Greece 's economy. The current ODI world champions are clueless about their opening batting pair. The team is clueless about why the middle-order has flopped so badly and also clueless about the poor form and lack of fitness of its pacemen . When one of your most aggressive players of spin bowling ( Suresh Raina ) is twice deceived by an off-spinner , when the spine of your batting ( Virat Kohli ) fails to get into double digits in an entire tournament , when you are trying out bowlers outside the original squad of 15 ( Mohit Sharma ) , something is seriously wrong . A new TV ad with the catchline " wo n't give it back " , is aimed at arousing passion on retaining the Cup. It only makes you chuckle . You ca n't blame the crisis on lack of planning. In 1992 , when the World Cup was last held in Australia and New Zealand , the team had played a long triangular ODI series as preparation and acclimatisation. It did n't work . This time the Men in Blue began their Cup endeavour in November last year. Since then , they have played four Tests , four ODIs and a bunch of warmup games. After nearly 70 days Down Under , they have n't won a single game . Barring Dhoni , the squad has only six batsmen. This means in order to drop a batsman in dismal form such as opener Shikhar Dhawan , one of the alleged all-rounders or the 'keeper must act as back-up. That 's why the experts are coming up with these incredible suggestions . Misfortune seldom arrives alone. Right now , the squad also abounds in damaged warriors. Ishant Sharma , one of India 's brighter spots in the Test series , nurses an injured knee . Bhuvneshwar Kumar 's ankle worries might be getting over but his pace now reminds you of Sourav Ganguly. Troubled by his shoulder , Ravindra Jadeja is unrecognizable from the bowler who made Michael Clarke his bunny two years ago . And Rohit Sharma , one of the few batsmen to have shown a semblance of ODI form , is recovering from a troubled hamstring. Their fates will be collectively decided in a fitness Test on February 7 . But there could be an unintended silver lining in this. The injuries offer Team India a window of opportunity to iron out rough spots. India 's worries begin at the top. This is the chance to get either Murali Vijay or even Virender Sehwag into the team . In the past , Vijay has been a total failure in ODIs but as the Test series showed he has the technique to negotiate express pace and awkward bounce. He could be the much-needed bulwark in stopping the opposition from knifing into the middle-order. Sehwag is the high risk option but is back in form . If Jadeja is ruled out , his replacement must be Yuvraj. With left-arm spinner Axar Patel performing impressively , the team does n't need another slow bowling option . It is likely that if one of the medium-pacers does n't regain fitness , Dhoni might opt for his CSK teammate Mohit Sharma. Mohit 's ODI record is hardly anything to talk about has played only 10 ODIs so far with an average of 40 runs per wicket. His best haul is 4/22 against Bangladesh . As early as January 2014 , Dhoni had announced that " as of now , both our ODI and Test squads look quite settled " . The operative word here is " settled " . It means that over a year ago , the Indian captain had zeroed in on the squad he wanted for the World Cup. The hollowness of that claim would n't have been starker today . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
