Injury-ridden India need to lift their game for crucial tie The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 26 , 2015 , 08.10AM IST Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : India are facing a queer Rohit Sharma conundrum in Australia at the moment . If ever his services were most needed , it would have been in Monday 's Australia Day match against the hosts. But as he is still recovering from a sore hamstring , Rohit will not be available for the crucial game at the SCG , where India 's record is nothing much to go by. After his excellent century in India 's tri-series opener against Australia at the MCG , Rohit Sharma missed the next game at Brisbane. His services were missed ; the Indian top-order has been struggling in this ODI series and on Monday , his absence is going to be felt . But India need to look beyond Rohit Sharma. In the 13 matches against the Aussies at the SCG , India have beaten them just once - in the March 2008 triangular final. Thus , it becomes imperative that the other batsmen finally run into form. A defeat against Australia on Monday will leave them with a Herculean task of making it to the final : Not only would they need to beat England with a bonus point but would also need to improve their net runrate substantially in the last league game at Perth on Jan 30 . India may have been tempted to play Rohit in a must-win game , but skipper MS Dhoni would n't even consider it. " We do not want to take chances with Rohit with the World Cup so close , " he said , " Until he is fully fit we would not like to rush him into a game. " Dhoni also said that barring the Mumbai batsman , all the other players , including Ravindra Jadeja and Ishant Sharma , were fit and available for selection. It needs to be seen if India will play their best XI or still try out players on Monday . When Dhoni was asked if after two losses , the experimental phase was finally over , he said : " We were playing the best XI all the time . We were bothered by injuries. As I said earlier , 'experimentation ' is a word that is banned . You can use all the different words but we do n't experiment , we feature the best XI. " The good news for India is that Australia , having already made the Feb 1 final at Perth , have indicated that they may bring in untested players and also reshuffle the batting against Australia at the MCG , Rohit Sharma missed the next game at Brisbane. His services were missed ; the Indian top-order has been struggling in this ODI series and on Monday , his absence is going to be felt . But India need to look beyond Rohit Sharma. In the 13 matches against the Aussies at the SCG , India have beaten them just once -in the March 2008 triangular final. Thus , it becomes imperative that the other batsmen finally run into form. A defeat against Australia on Monday will leave them with a Herculean task of making it to the final : Not only would they need to beat England with a bonus point but would also need to improve their net run-rate substantially in the last league game at Perth on Jan 30 . India may have been tempted to play Rohit in a must-win game , but skipper MS Dhoni would n't even consider it. " We do not want to take chances with Rohit with the World Cup so close , " he said , " Until he is fully fit we would not like to rush him into a game. " Dhoni also said that barring the Mumbai batsman , all the other players , including Ravindra Jadeja and Ishant Sharma , were fit and available for selection. It needs to be seen if India will play their best XI or still try out players on Monday . When Dhoni was asked if after two losses , the experimental phase was finally over , he said : " We were playing the best XI all the time. We were bothered by injuries. As I said earlier , 'experimentation ' is a word that is banned. You can use all the different words but we do n't experiment , we feature the best XI. " The good news for India is that Australia , having already made the Feb 1 final at Perth , have indicated that they may bring in untested players and also reshuffle the batting or der. This means that they may lower their guard a bit and India ought to take an advantage of that. Aussie skipper George Bailey , who is back at the helm after suspended for the Hobart game for slow over-rate , said that the Aussies were not going to take things lightly. " The match on Australia Day is very special and we would like to win it for the Australian people and also take winning momentum into the final , " he said . India Team Director Ravi Shastri , who is back with the boys after a fortnight 's break , was in animated discussion with Virat Kohli at the practice session , undoubtedly giving him a pep talk after his failure in earlier two games. India knows Kohli 's form is going to be crucial not only in the tri-series but also in the World Cup. " He looks in good touch and , I feel , is just a knock away from his vaunted form. Once he gets his eye in , he can be a very dangerous batsman , " Dhoni said of Kohli . There is little doubt the struggling Shikhar Dhawan would be given one more chance to get into the groove. After a string of failures , he needs to buckle down and tighten his technique , at least initially , before going for his strokes. India need good start from him and Ajinkiya Rahane , especially in Rohit 's absence . The good news for India is that Australia will give Mitchell Johnson some more time to recover from his injury and personal problems. He , however , is being taken to Perth for the final. Johnson 's absence will come as a relief to the Indian openers and a chance to run into form . On Johnson , his skipper said , " I faced him ( at the nets ) last night and that 's never pleasant , so his pace was still pretty good. He 's had another stint today , and is going reasonably well , but I do n't think he 'll play tomorrow. He 's building up for Perth ( final ) . As for India 's bowling combination , Dhoni would be keen to put both their best spinners on the park as the SCG pitch looks dry and may help spinners. Jadeja and Ravichandra Ashwin bowling in tandem with a trio of seamers seems an ideal combination. Like Jadeja , Ishant Sharma too has been sweating it out in the nets and may finally get a game since he last played in the third Test match at Melbourne . India is looking for a much improved performance from the seam bowlers too , if they hope to finally have a win under their belt on this tour. On India 's Republic Day ( in addition to the Australia Day Down Under ) and a full house at the SCG with a large contingent of Indian fans rooting for them , India have the ideal stage to lift their game and finally give them something to cheer about . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
