IPL case : SC reserves verdict on Srinivasan 's fate The author has posted comments on this article Dhananjay Mahapatra , TNN | Dec 18 , 2014 , 10.21AM IST One of the moot points of adjudication which emerged during arguments spanning days was the amendment to BCCI Rules in 2008 allowing board management to have commercial interest in IPL matches. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The Supreme Court on Wednesday reserved its verdict on BCCI president N Srinivasan 's plea to seek reelection but the judgment expected in January appeared laden with a potential to lay accountability standards for ill-managed sports bodies to eliminate nepotism and conflict of interest . The deeper scrutiny of incidents relating to IPL betting and spot-fixing scam by a bench of Justices TS Thakur and FMI Kalifulla led to a strong debate on 'conflict of interest ' within BCCI management headed by Srinivasan , who also owns IPL franchisee Chennai Super King . So thorough was the bench with the facts of the case that it often cited incidents from IPL which appeared tinged by conflict of interest entailing long explanations from counsel for BCCI and Srinivasan . One of the moot points of adjudication which emerged during arguments spanning days was the amendment to BCCI Rules in 2008 allowing board management to have commercial interest in IPL matches . Appearing for Srinivasan , senior advocate Kapil Sibal challenged petitioner Cricket Association of Bihar and its secretary Aditya Verma to give a single instance where his client acted in conflict of interest and caused loss to the Board while favouring himself or his team . The bench was quick to point out the decision by IPL governing council meeting , attended by Srinivasan , to compensate Rs 13 crore to CSK for an abandoned champions league match. " How could you have decided your case ? The fact that the money was returned by CSK made no difference to the conflict of interest on your part when the decision was taken , " the bench said . Sibal quickly made amends. " Apart from that single incident , there had been no other allegation in the last eight years. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
