IPL scam : Quiet relief in Srinivasan camp The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Nov 18 , 2014 , 09.32AM IST Thirteen may be an unlucky number for most in the cricket world , but not for N Srinivasan. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : Thirteen may be an unlucky number for most in the cricket world , but not for N Srinivasan. The ICC chairman , named as Individual 13 in the Mudgal committee report , has been given a clean chit on two key issues and , by Monday evening , Srinivasan seemed more bothered about his daily walk than anything else . He has vowed not to talk on the controversy before the Supreme Court verdict is out but a huge media contingent was waiting outside his house for a reaction. " Tell us how to deal with this , he has to go for a walk , " an associate of Srinivasan said laughing , indicating that the spirits are high at the moment . Insiders always believed that he was never involved in betting or match-fixing , but the key question was whether he would be charged with any attempt to scuttle the investigations into fixing. The Mudgal committee gave him a clean chit on that count and his associates feel it should be good enough to bring him back to power. " The detractors have been saying that he was trying to scuttle the probe. The committee report makes it clear that he never had any such inclination. It 's good that truth has prevailed , " a source close to the developments said . There is a third line on Srinivasan in the report where it has been said that he , along with four other BCCI officials , was aware of a violation of a Code of Conduct by Individual 3. One understands that it could be a prominent batsman in the current set-up but the incident is likely to have happened quite a few years back outside India. The four officials the panel is talking about may also include a former top BCCI official spearheading the anti-Srinivasan campaign . The only worry for the Srinivasan camp could be the fact that it has been proved beyond doubt that Gurunath Meiyappan is not an enthusiast but a team official. But the probe commission does n't mention anywhere in its report pertaining to Srinivasan that he had tried to cover up for his son-in-law. " Gurunath never had any official designation and legally it 's not possible for him to be the owner of the team. India Cements is a publicly listed company and all the share holders are its owners. Even Srinivasan is not the owner , so how can anyone else T be ? " an official pointed out . " There are a few legal battles still to be fought , but we will come out unscathed. Let 's wait till 24th ( November ) , " a Srinivasan loyalist said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
