Irani Cup : Jadhav keeps champs Karnataka at bay The author has posted comments on this article Vedam Jaishankar , TNN | Mar 19 , 2015 , 01.44PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 BENGALURU : There is plenty to appreciate about the approach and ability of Maharashtra 's diminutive right-hand batsman Kedar Jadhav . The foremost of his endearing qualities is the positive outlook he carries to the batting crease. This was amply evident when he kept Karnataka 's varied bowling attack at bay and helped Rest of India to squeeze out a narrow 20-run lead on the second day of the Irani Cup tie at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium on Wednesday . Rest of India probably missed a trick or two by sending him so late in the batting order. For , by the time he came to the batting crease , 40 minutes before lunch , with Rest on 90 for four , the innings was already in tatters . Vinay Kumar , the home team 's skipper , shrewdly kept the heat on the rivals and ensured that his team would wrest the initiative in the morning session itself . Vinay and fellow medium pacer Abhimanyu Mithun bowled impressively right through the day. The lines they stuck to ensured that the batsmen scarcely got the width to cut or pull. Their three-quarters length too troubled the opponents whenever the ball went off the seam. The most heartening feature was the manner in which they piled on the pressure . Rest , who had looked so good on the opening day while dismissing the Irani Cup holders for a mere 244 , lost the plot rather early when Jiwanjot Singh feathered a Vinay delivery to the wicketkeeper. For a while , Paras Dogra ( 26 ; 103m , 53b , 3x4 ) and Naman Ojha ( 34 ; 98m , 68b , 6x4 ) put their head down and sought to grind out the attack. The pitch too lost its initial moisture and rolled out to play easy . But after having done all the hard work Rest imploded . Both Dogra and Ojha left in quick succession and skipper Manoj Tiwary ( 14 ) was trapped in front by his counterpart as Rest went into lunch at a sorry 127 for 5 . The crisis , however , brought out the best in Jadhav. He looked a far better batsman than his teammates as he drove , late cut and defended superbly. One straight drive off Vinay was top-drawer stuff. Reprieved by Samarth at gully off Vinay when on 34 , he very nearly made the Karnataka team pay for its generosity . Rest eased into the lead through a 22-run last wicket stand between Varun Aaron ( 25 ; 32b , 1x6 , 2x4 ) and Pragyan Ojha ( 4.n.o. ) . But the small lead might well turn out to be insignificant considering that Rest have to bat last on a pitch expected to crumble towards the fourth and fifth days . Vinay , Mithun and legspinner Shreyas Gopal each came away with three wickets to make amends for their team 's poor batting on the opening day. In the remaining 60 minutes of play possible , Karnataka wiped off the lead without losing a wicket ( 390 ) . Brief scores : Karnataka 244 and 39 for no loss lead Rest of India 264 ( Jadhav 78 , Mithun 3-46 , Shreyas 3-51 , Vinay 3-76 ) by 19 runs Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
