Ireland 's greatest World Cup wins The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 16 , 2015 , 11.54AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Ireland cemented their reputation as giant-killers with a four-wicket win over the West Indies in their World Cup opener in Nelson on Monday . It was n't the first time the Irish had upset one of cricket 's elite Test nations on the World Cup stage . Here AFP Sport looks at their greatest triumphs at the global showpiece event . March 17 , 2007 : Ireland beat Pakistan by 3 wkts ( D/L method ) Ireland marked St Patrick 's Day in style by knocking Pakistan out of the 2007 World Cup in Jamaica . The Irish attack skittled out the Asian giants for just 132 , with future England paceman Boyd Rankin taking three wickets . Ireland suffered a collapse of their own before Kevin O'Brien and Trent Johnston saw them to victory , sparking wild celebrations in both the Caribbean and back home . But there was a grim postscript to the match when Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer , the former England batsman , died in his hotel room that night . Mar 2 , 2011 : Ireland beat England by 3 wkts England piled up a seemingly imposing 327 for eight in Bangalore , with Jonathan Trott making 92 and Ian Bell 81 although John Mooney 's four-wicket haul prevented a larger total . In reply , Ireland lost skipper William Porterfield before they 'd scored a run but Kevin O'Brien seized his chance to shine by smashing the fastest-ever World Cup hundred off just 50 balls , with 13 fours and six sixes. After he was out , Mooney 's 33 not out sealed a stunning win with five balls to spare . Feb 16 , 2015 : Ireland beat the West Indies by 4 wkts Ireland reduced the West Indies to 87 for five , with left-arm spinner George Dockrell taking three wickets in Nelson . But Lendl Simmons -- nephew of Ireland coach Phil , the former Windies batsman -- made 102 and put on 154 for the sixth wicket with Darren Sammy ( 89 ) as the two-time World Cup champions eventually totalled 304 for seven . However , county batsmen Paul Stirling ( 92 ) , Ed Joyce ( 84 ) and Niall O'Brien ( 79 not out ) , who steadied nerves after several wickets fell in quick succession , starred as Ireland won with 25 balls to spare . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
