Irfan a worry for Pakistan ahead of Proteas game The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 5 , 2015 , 11.32AM IST The first question that coach Waqar Younis faced walking into the press-conference after Pakistan 's win was about Irfan 's injury. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NAPIER : Pakistan might have won their game against United Arab Emirates easily but they did n't look like an organized unit. And now , ahead of their big match against South Africa , there 's an additional headache for the team management in the form of an injury to pace spearhead Mohammad Irfan . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Irfan could only bowl three overs in his spell on Wednesday. The first question that coach Waqar Younis faced walking into the press-conference after Pakistan 's win was about Irfan 's injury. " It 's not a new injury , we do n't think it 's too serious. Irfan is being treated and we are hoping that he will be fit in a few days , " Waqar said . But the coach did n't specify whether the paceman would be available for the South Africa game . Pakistan desperately need to win that game if they are to ensure their passage into the quarterfinals before they take on Ireland in the last match of the group stage . " It 's not just about making the quarters. We need to show it to ourselves that we can win matches against the bigger teams , " Waqar added . It seemed that the win against UAE had gone into the backburner and the entire topic of discussion was about the South Africa match in a couple of days ' time in Auckland. Nasir Jamshed failed again and Waqar knows time is running out . " We have only these few to choose from. There 's not much we can do , we need to have that cushion of the seventh batsman , " the coach , who was known for his attacking instincts during his playing days , said . " Players like Steve Smith , Glenn Maxwell , they all play in IPL which our players do n't , " Waqar said. But when probed about the lack of IPL exposure of the Pakistani players , he clarified : " I think the game in our country is being hurt more by international teams not touring us rather than our boys not playing IPL. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
