Ishant and Jadeja 's fitness crucial for Team India The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 25 , 2015 , 08.55AM IST Ravindra Jadeja and Ishant Sharma have been on the injured list and Rohit Sharma joined them after his brilliant century at Melbourne. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : India have been in Australia for over two months , but other than a few good sessions in the Test series , they have not tasted success. India were expected to get over their disappointments in the longer version once the ODIs came along. But they have lost both the matches and fans have begun to lose patience. India were so mediocre against England at Brisbane the other night that the fans are starting to wonder if it is the same team which won the Champions Trophy two seasons ago in the UK . Skipper MS Dhoni has called for patience as the team is young and inexperienced.They are still in the learning mode. But the fans want instant results. They say , what 's the use if this team comes good after the World Cup . The basic problem with the Indian team is that they are treating the Tri-series as warm-up matches rather than a serious cricket tournament. They have been concentrating on trying out players , rather than think of winning games. No doubt they have been hampered by injuries , and that is the reason they are still in experimental mode.But they should realise that in cricket nothing works better than winning matches . Ravindra Jadeja and Ishant Sharma have been on the injured list and Rohit Sharma joined them after his brilliant century at Melbourne and sat out the game against England at Brisbane. Jadeja 's case is very strange. He was selected in the Test team but never played a game due to injury and was sent back mid-way to India for rehabilitation. He came back to Australia after he was deemed fit for the Tri-series and the World Cup. But he has not played a game as yet as it seems he is still not completely fit. Though he has been batting in the nets , he has not been bowling much. Jadeja , by any stretch of imagination , can not get into the side only for his batting. He is more of a bowling-allrounder. So , if he is not able to bowl much in a match , he becomes a liability . Jadeja 's backup , all-rounder Axar Patel has had horrendous outings in the last two games. He is nowhere near Jadeja when it comes to capability with the bat. His bowling at best can be termed average. Therefore , without Jadeja , the balance of the team suffers. Dhoni has been flummoxed by the lack of batting depth , which , he says , is why he has not been able to accelerate in the slog overs . Ishant Sharma is a vital cog in India 's bowling attack. If he continues to be unfit for long , the team will continue to suffer as the other three pace bowlers ; Umesh Yadav , Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Mohammed Shami have been nowhere near their best. Yadav is too wayward on most occasions while Bhuvi has looked lacklustre , giving the impression he may not be totally fit. Shami has been erratic with the new ball and these days , he hardly gets any reverse swing with the socalled " old ball " . With two balls being used at either end , by the 35th over or so , the ball is actually only 17 overs old and probably that is affecting his ability to reverse the ball as it is not scuffed up enough. England bowler Steve Finn had got plenty of reverse swing , and has picked up wickets regularly , but the Indians are struggling to do that . If India hope to make their presence felt in the Tri-series , it is pertinent that the bowlers fire and be on top of their game against Australia on Monday . If they are unable to get early wickets , or keep the batsmen quiet in the middle-overs and do not obtain reverse swing , they will find it hard to contain rival batsmen in the remaining two matches. That may adversely affect their World Cup chances . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
