Ishant out of World Cup ; Mohit in The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 8 , 2015 , 12.02PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : His body language said it all. It 's the end of the road for lanky seamer Ishant Sharma . For most part of the first practice session prior to the start of India 's defence of the World Cup , the medium-pacer was all by himself sporting a forlorn and resigned look . On the other hand , Mohit Sharma bowled at full steam and even batted in the nets , giving clear indication the when the ICC allow a replacement for Team India , Ishant will be replaced by another Sharma . There was good news though for the three other players on the injured list. Rohit Sharma , Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Ravindra Jadeja showed no apparent discomfort and were declared fit for the World Cup. The team management would be more than happy with the development , as whole sale changes in the team at this late juncture would not have been an ideal situation for them . As is the norm with the Indian team , there was hardly any effort to update the media on the latest developments. It can be safely concluded that barring Ishant , the other three seem set to be part of the World Cup team . There was no official information on the fitness status of Ishant even late into the night. So it is difficult to say whether Team India will make an immediate decision or wait for the two warm-up matches to conclude before taking a call on him . A BCCI source though confirmed the news about Ishant missing the World Cup. " It 's confirmed that Ishant has been ruled out and will not recover in time to play the World Cup. As per regulations , we had Mohit Sharma as stand-by and he will be inducted into the World Cup squad. Ishant will return home , " the source informed . " Rohit , Bhuvi and Jadeja have passed the fitness test. However , let me stress that they have to prove it in a match situation during the warm-up matches against Australia and Afghanistan , " the source added . There are apprehensions about Jadeja 's ability to throw the ball from the deep . For Ishant though another World Cup has passed him by. He missed the 2011 edition too. The boot camp he attended with MS Dhoni clearly did n't work for him . Earlier in the day , Bhuvi had told the media : " I have fully recovered now. Yes there was a niggle in the ODIs. Last 3-4 days were really good for me and I 'm looking forward to playing the World Cup " . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
