Ishant Sharma 's another shot at redemption The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Jul 22 , 2014 , 09.58AM IST Ishant will be praying the second half of his career will turn out to be a less bumpy ride than the first. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 Ishant Sharma may finally be close to exorcising the demons of Perth. Usually , top sportsmen cling on fervently to their finest moments , not knowing when or where the next one will come from . But that awkwardly high standard Ishant set for himself in January of 2008 - when he teased , tormented and embarrassed Ricky Ponting to enter cricketing folklore - was a millstone around this lanky Delhi pacer 's neck till Monday . Ishant has n't been alone in this struggle. Even the invincible Michael Jordan , a sportsman prone to producing more brilliant moments than most combined , once commented with exasperation , " You set such high standards for yourself that you have to go out every day and live up to that. You have competition. " For Ishant , a game trier first and foremost , the problem was that the first 'aha ' moment came too early in his career , maybe too easily for him to comprehend its magnitude. Disappointment was bound to follow . Now , having bowled with aggression and produced the finest performance by an Indian pacer in the fourth innings , Ishant will be praying the second half of his career will turn out to be a less bumpy ride than the first . The seven-wicket Lord 's haul , during which he peppered England 's hara-kiri prone batsmen with short stuff from around the wicket , might still not rank as high as the spell to Ponting in terms of pure aesthetic pleasure. Personally for Ishant though , it can restore the Holy Grail he seemed to misplace sometime around 2009 - his confidence . No wonder he was stony faced and unsmiling at the post-match presentation . Maybe it hurt to allow a smile. Maybe his mind went back to 2009 , when after a particularly lean spell in which he bagged 10 wickets from four Tests at an average of 46.90 . " You needed patience to get out of those times. I have realized a cricketer has to go through these patches in life , " he said . For Ishant , these patches have been more trying than most. When he burst on to the scene , he had the height , bounce , pace , high arm action , the perfect wrist position and a potent inswinger. The wickets followed and expectations soared. In his early Ranji Trophy days , his accuracy was legend. For sessions on end , captains would seldom bother about him not being able to bowl to his field . It all unravelled fast. The seam refused to stay upright. He tried adding too many weapons to his armoury , the wrist did n't seem to be behind the ball and his pace too slackened. The famed accuracy deserted him. Some maintain he was over bowled on flat tracks . Ishant refused to fade from the Test scene , bagging 43 wickets from 12 Tests at 36.69 . Yet in early 2013 he had one of the worst averages among bowlers to complete 50 Tests . The good moments were there , just too few and far between , even though Ishant often bowled when the new-ball practitioners tired . He even avoided surgery to prolong his career. As bowling coach Eric Simons had said in 2012 , Ishant seemed luckless . India gradually resigned to the fact that maybe Ishant just was n't the match-winner Perth had promised. Increasingly , the bowler seemed unsure of himself. Just last October , after James Faulkner hit him for 30 runs in an over , he became something of a social media sensation. The jokes followed. Some of them were downright nasty . The signs in England , right from Trent Bridge where he got Robson , Ballance and Bell with some penetrating stuff , had been good but not extraordinary till Lord 's. Importantly , the pace and accuracy seemed to be back. After the Test , he declared he had played enough to know which lengths to bowl on which pitch. At Lord 's , he just credited MS Dhoni for letting him bowl the short pitched stuff . Probably Ishant realises his career has been more exasperating than enthralling. After Lord 's , it 's time to redress the balance . Now , he is n't all about Perth anymore . Kapil Dev , under whom India had first won the World Cup in 1983 and then a Test match at Lord 's in 1986 , was among the first to laud Team India 's feat on Monday. The former India captain , who is here as a TV expert felt the 95-run win over England will be a huge morale-booster for MS Dhoni and his boys , who had not tasted success in an overseas Test in the last three years . " Winning matters. This is a splendid victory for India and I am sure this will spur them to win the series , " said Kapil , who was the Man of the Match when India had humbled England by five wickets here 28 years ago . Kapil felt India 's victory here is all the more creditable because most of the boys in the squad had no prior exposure to English conditions . " The young lads played well against Alastair Cook 's team , which despite being very good on paper , has n't really performed up to expectations. The England side of 1986 did n't have as much depth in batting or bowling as the current lot , " Kapil observed . Kapil 's protege , Chetan Sharma , who had taken 5/64 to bowl out England for 294 in the first innings , recollected the big moment too . " Every team and captain dreams of winning a Test match at Lord 's. For us , winning the first Test at Lord 's was like revisiting our World Cup victory. It was great to be a part of that side and I am proud of Dhoni and his boys for giving us this memorable win , " Chetan told TOI over phone from New Delhi . Talking about his own bowling , Chetan said , " It was a comeback of sorts for me after having been hit for a six by Javed Miandad off the last ball in Sharjah earlier that year. I am glad , I could come out of it pretty well , " Chetan said . Asked about his experience of bowling on the Lord 's ridge , Chetan said : " It can be very unnerving , but if taken advantage of , it can help bowlers pick wickets. I remember that my coach Desh Prem Azad , who was sitting near the boundary rope , advising me to bowl from the Nursery end. It worked because after a change of ends , I claimed four wickets. Bhuvneshwar Kumar too picked four of his six wickets while bowling from that end . " I am very happy for Ishant. He richly deserved the wickets. He is the senior most bowler in the squad and I expect him to guide the others. If Ishant , Bhuvi and Shami maintain their fitness and keep their focus , England will struggle in the rest of the series too , " Chetan added . Kiran More , who had made his debut in that Test , also recalled India 's maiden win at Lord 's . " I had waited for three years to make my Test debut. I could not have asked for more because it happened at Lord 's. I made decent contributions with the bat and also with the gloves and helped India to win the match , " More told TOI . " It is a pity that we had to wait for 28 years for our second victory at Lord 's , but I am sure the next one there will come sooner , " he said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
