Ishant works up good pace at practice session in Sydney The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 24 , 2015 , 08.55AM IST India are hopeful of getting Ishant back on the field. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : There is some good news for India. The first one is regarding pace bowler Ishant Sharma who ran in full steam and bowled at a good nip during the optional practice session at the SCG here on Friday. The second is about team director Ravi Shastri joining the team after being away in India for a fortnight and missing the first two matches of the triseries . These two tidings will hopefully lift the morale of the team which is still looking for its first win on the tour. India take on Australia here on Republic Day , which also happens to be Australia Day , a national holiday here . Missing the optional session were Virat Kohli , Rohit Sharma and Ravichandra Ashwin. Sharma had missed the Brisbane game due to sore hamstring but , it is learnt , is on the way to quick recovery. Kohli and Ashwin had decided to take a rest. The team has an off day on Saturday and returns to SCG on Sunday afternoon for their session on the eve of the match . Ishant has not played a game since the third Test as he was unfit for the final Test as well as the first two triseries games. The team badly needs the services of the lanky bowler as the pace of Umesh Yadav , Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Shami Ahmed is struggling to put the rival batsmen under pressure , especially with the new ball . India are hopeful of getting Ishant back on the field , but would not take a chance if he is not cent percent fit , keeping in mind the upcoming World Cup . It was good to see a majority of the Indian players at the optional nets in the presence of two national selectors , Roger Binny and Vikram Rathore. The two were in conversation with some of the struggling players , no doubt trying to give them a boost. With Shastri also having joined the team , the think-tank will hopefully work out a winning combination. What India need desperately is that all players should be fit and ready to take the field . The Indian players must have felt they were back home as a large number of Indian fans was present here at the nets. The players happily posed for selfies and signed autographs after the nets. The fans may not be happy as yet with the performance of the team but they are always optimistic of their team rising from the ashes. They kept encouraging the players , shouting their names. They would want to see India finally win a match even if they do n't make it to the final at Perth on February 1 . India may be working hard at the nets and there may be pep talks galore , but nothing will lift the tottering team 's morale that a couple of wins under their belt. The sooner they come the better it will be for the team . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
