Is Sundar Raman just an IPL numbers whiz or there 's more ? The author has posted comments on this article Sundar Raman is called many things in the world of cricket. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Sundar Raman is called many things in the world of cricket : a number-crunching wiz , moneymaking machine , marketing genius , proven media consultant and even a wannabe commentator. But one thing he has never been called : a link between the big bettors in the game and illegal bookmakers . On Monday , when the Supreme Court made certain parts of the Mudgal Committee report public , and he was decreed to have been 'in touch with a contact of a bookmaker eight times during the last Indian Premier League ( IPL ) season ' everybody assumed the worst . There was , however , hardly a flutter on his officially accredited Twitter handle , nor did he say anything to defend himself or clear his name.Those who have his ear only said that he was vainly trying to figure out why exactly his face was being flashed on TV screens along with words like 'betting ' and 'fixing' . " What does the ( Mudgal ) report say about him, ' asked one of Sundar 's associates. " Does it say that he was in touch with bookmakers ? No. " The report says ( verbatim ) : 'This individual ( Raman ) knew of a contact of a bookie and had contacted him eight times in one season. This individual admitted knowing the con tact of the bookies but however claimed to be unaware of his connection with betting activities. This individual also accepted that he had received information about Individ ual 1 ( Gurunath Meiyappan ) and In dividual 11 ( Raj Kundra ) taking part in betting activities but was informed by the ICC-ACSU chief by the ICC-ACSU chief that this was not actionable information. ' That contact is TV actor and former reality show contestant Vindoo Dara Singh who has been investigated by the Mumbai crime branch for his alleged role in spot-fixing . Those who know Sundar 's style of working say " meeting all kinds of people " is his job. " He has to be in touch with cricketers , administrators , ground staff , hotel staff , VIP guests , match officials , sponsors , advertisers and many more. That 's his job.But he ca n't keep a personal tab on everyone he meets , " they say . Vindoo would arrive at IPL matches in elite company where the possibility of him and Sundar meeting socially was always a possibility . " Does that mean he revealed information to bookmakers ? " they ask . As the Supreme Court further hears the matter , Sundar 's friends say his lawyers will study the report and file their reply . Those who 've tracked IPL 's progress during its most feverish phase - between 2008 to 2010 , when it changed the very complexion of the game worldwide -will know of a swanky 36th floor makeshift office in a five-star luxury hotel in Mumbai from where Sundar and Lalit Modi operated. Those were days when the perception was that the two league-runners were each other 's closest confidantes . How Sundar survived in the aftermath of BCCI suspending Modi , and how he went on to become Modi 's arch-rival N Srinivasan 's closest colleague in cricket administration is still something outsiders can not fathom. But neither Modi nor Srinivasan would deny the ability of the man - boss of the 3 billion dollar league for all practical purposes - to make money and infuse fresh energy into the game. Sundar has been called many things by his adversaries : arrogant , prejudiced , opportunistic and maybe more. No body dared call him corrupt , though , until the Mudgal report mentioned his name last week. Time will tell if even that is actually a case of the media jumping to the wrong conclusion or if there 's more . KUNDRA STRICTURE ADDS TO ROYALS ' TROUBLES It used to be among IPL spot-fixing scandal 's juiciest gossips how and why Rajasthan police stopped investigating Rajasthan Royals co owner Raj Kundra in June last year after Delhi police had grilled him for close to 11 hours and the Mudgal Committee had mentioned him in its investigations . More than a year later , the string of " gossips " find a serious mention in the report submitted by the Mudgal panel to the Supreme Court , which was made public on Monday. Kundra and his wife , actor Shilpa Shetty , co-own 11.7 % stake in Rajasthan Royals , which they bought in 2009. They were invited by the franchise to add glamour to the side. However , if their acrimony with the BCCI in the following years - owing to Lalit Modi 's association with one of the franchise 's co-owners - was n't enough , Kundra 's name being dragged into the betting scandal has made life difficult for the Jaipur-based team . The year Royals enjoyed their biggest high in the IPL , 2008 , was the only time Kundra and Shetty were n't around. Their marriage and buying of the RR stake both happened in 2009. His work profile at present lists his interests in real-estate , mild-steel production , stock-broking and interests in a sports and media company . IT COULD GET TOUGHER FOR MEIYAPPAN Gurunath Meiyappan 's most popularly tweeted picture in recent times would have to be the one in which he 's seen enjoying a day off with his friend on a private yacht somewhere in the seas down south. They 're enjoying a drink and the picture is a postcard of serenity . Back on land though , life has n't been so easy for BCCI chief N Srinivasan 's son-in law who 's been clean bowled by the Mudgal Committee report. Coming from a family n of notable repute - the AVM production house - Guru 's production house - Guru 's enthusiasm to be associated with his father-in-law 's cricket franchise has brought him and his family a great deal of trouble . " If he 's guilty , action will be taken , " Srinivasan had said when preliminary investigations had revealed Guru 's interests in betting on the game.There was an effort to hide his identity as Chennai Super Kings ' Team Principal , a fact that has been brought to light once again in the Mudgal report . None of the other names from the Mudgal report that were released on Monday has gone through any forensic investigation either , barring Guru. His yacht picture is a far cry from that frenzied evening at the crime branch in Mumbai , where he was first questioned about the IPL spot-fixing scandal. Since then , Guru has stayed far away from the spotlight . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
