Open iTunes to buy and download apps . Description Watch the latest TV Shows , Movies and LIVE sports on your iOS device completely free of charge ! No sign up fees , or registration required. Access full-length episodes of your favourite shows , full-length Bollywood , English , Tamil , Kannada , Malayalam , Marathi and Bengali movies in addition to live cricket streaming . Latest , full-length episodes : Catch full episodes of your favourite TV Shows across Comedy , Drama , Romance , Crime , Family Drama , Fantasy , Mythology , Reality and Teen Drama . Latest Bollywood Blockbusters : We also update our Movie catalogue regularly with the biggest Bollywood blockbusters from Salman Khan , Ajay Devgan , Hrithik Roshan and others - all full length , available to stream for free ! Your Favourite Shows : On hotstar , you will find full episodes of your favourite current TV Shows from popular channels like Star Plus , Life OK , Channel V , Star Vijay , Asianet , Suvarna and others ; serials like Diya Aur Baati Hum , Saathiya , Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai , Mahadev , Yeh Hai Mohabbatein , Dil Dosti Dance , Sadda Haq and Gumraah . hotstar also has full episodes of your favourite TV Shows from the years gone by - Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi , Kasautii Zindagi Ke , Sarabhai vs Sarabhai , Mahabharat , Khichdi , Iss Pyaar Ko Kya Naam Doon . In addition , you can also catch the latest Tamil , Malayalam , Marathi & Bengali Shows here . Shows of popular channels : Watch all TV shows , without sign up or registration from Star Plus , Life OK , Channel V , Asianet , Star Vijay , Star Jalsha , Star Pravah , Star One , Suvarna and Star World . Blockbusters : hotstar is the only destination where you can catch full-length Bollywood movies from your favourite Stars with movies like Kick , Dabangg 2 , Action Jackson , Finding Fanny , Singham , Singham Returns , Bang Bang , Bullett Raja , Golmaal , Fukrey , Kahaani etc . Free streaming of English TV shows : hotstar will also showcase the best and the latest English shows for free ! Now , you don ’ t need to illegally download your favourite English TV shows and watch them in inferior video quality. hotstar brings to you popular shows like Homeland , Modern Family , Prison Break , The Empire , The Americans and other shows , in HD quality and absolutely free ! You can watch all the seasons and all the episodes of these shows on hotstar . Languages Supported : Hindi , English , Malayalam , Tamil , Kannada , Marathi , Bengali . Download * : hotstar allows you to download videos to your device so that you can watch it offline when network is limited , or on your commute to college/work. We know how precious your mobile data is , and we want to ensure that you get the most out of your mobile experience on hotstar . Features : Free Streaming of TV Shows , Movies , Sports for free Great video experience on any bandwidth - even on 2G ! Download & Go - View later when you are offline or network is poor . Resume - hotstar will remember where you stopped watching and can pick up exactly at the point where you left off - across devices ! Registration is required for this feature . Playlist - Save content to your playlist so that you can watch in the order you like , where you have full control. Registration is required for this feature . Rate/Curate content - let us know how much you liked a video that you saw - we will remember your choices and ensure you find videos similar to your tastes . Note : Our app is free , and has no charges or fees attached whatsoever. Registration is optional , but you will enjoy the experience as a registered user and the experience is still free ! Data charges applicable as per your internet/mobile operator when you stream/download content . What 's New in Version 1.7 1. Major download issues fixed 2. Login password issue fixed 3. Crashes in movie genre section fixed iPhone Screenshot
