I stand vindicated : Lalit Modi The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jan 22 , 2015 , 07.12PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Claiming to have been vindicated after the Supreme Court barred N Srinivsan from contesting BCCI Presidential elections owing to conflict of interest , sacked IPL Commissioner Lalit Modi on Thursday said the verdict will clean up corruption in the game . " Extremely happy with the Hon. Supreme Court judgement on # srinivasan ..always believed that I would be vindicated # IPLVerdict , " Modi said in a series of tweets after the apex court disallowed Srinivasan from fighting the BCCI Presidential election due to his stake in IPL team Chennai Super Kings . " Decision by Hon. SC to disallow any administrator from having any commercial interest in cricket is bang on # IPLVerdict # SriniGameOver , " he added . Delivering its long-awaited verdict , the Supreme Court held that the allegation of betting against Gurunath Meiyappan , a CSK team official and son-in-law of the BCCI President-in-exile , and Rajasthan Royals co-owner Raj Kundra stands proved while the charge of cover up against Srinivasan " is not proved " . Striking down rules that permitted BCCI office bearers to have a commercial interest by owning teams in the hugely-popular Indian Premier League and Champions League , a two-member bench of Justices T S Thakur and F M I Khalifulla , said , " Amendment in the BCCI rules allowing Srinivasan to own IPL team is bad as conflict of interest in cricket leads to great confusion. " Modi said his position on conflict of interest has been proved right by the apex court . " # Srinivasan knew all along that Rule 6.2.4 is unsustainable & illegal. # IPLVerdict now ensures a new @ BCCI chief in 6 weeks. Time 4 cleanup , " he said . " Can not agree more on SC 's observation : " Game is a game only if it is pristine and free from any sporting fraud " # IPLVerdict is watershed ! " he added . The future of CSK and IPL could be in danger as IPL rules provide for cancellation of the franchise for misconduct by players , owners and officials of a team . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
