Is Team India 's 'rest ' theory foolproof ahead of World Cup ? The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 29 , 2015 , 09.36AM IST Since the Australia Test series ended on Jan 10 , the Indian team has had more days off days than training sessions , following the team-plan to remain " fresh " for the upcoming World Cup. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 PERTH : The Indian team management apparently thinks " all play and no rest makes Jack a dull boy " . To avoid that , the Indian cricketers on Wednesday had another day off . While England , their opponents in the last league match on Friday , have been slogging it out without a break , the Indians have preferred to rest , citing the hot Perth weather as reason . However , it is nowhere near as hot as it is during the IPL season back home , when the players not only crisscross the country but also practice and play matches almost every day for over two months . But here , since the Test series ended on Jan 10 , the Indian team has had more days off days than training sessions , following the team-plan to remain " fresh " for the upcoming World Cup . Indian skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni has justified the approach , saying , " What is important is to switch on and switch off ( from cricket ) . Breaks really help you do that. What we have made sure is whenever we have practice sessions they are slightly tougher and slightly more realistic. So you give them ( the players ) good breaks but at the same time , have sessions that are more purposeful. " Dhoni , when asked about the fatigue factor , said that the breaks had been planned keeping in mind the long World Cup schedule. " The good thing is that we know our schedule well in advance. What we have observed is that there are chances of fatigue setting in. Though it must be said it is more mental than physical. I think most of the guys have had enough time to prepare themselves mentally for this kind of a scenario and that 's why the emphasis is to use the breaks in between the games really well. We want to spend time on the field but at the same time , we will have to assess what is the best possible option . " We will be in Australia for over four months. Once you know the schedule , you have to abide by it. You have to make the most of how to keep yourself fresh and ( give ) 100 % on the field. I think we are quite well prepared to do that. " However , a struggling team can hardly improve by taking regular breaks. There is a saying in cricket : " The more you play , the better you get " . Yes , the think-tank 's plan is okay for in-form and senior cricketers who are doing well on the tour. But for the younger lot , or those who have joined the team recently , nothing is more beneficial than being at the ground and slogging it out . The practice facilities are excellent. The practice pitches outside the ground are as good as the main square. The younger lot ought to take advantage of it and practice hard . Players like Dhawal Kulkarni , Mohit Sharma , Stuart Binny , Axar Patel and Ravindra Jadeja have not been with the team from the start. It will benefit them to practice regularly in conditions that are so different from back home . It is learnt that the Indian team will get a break the moment their tri-series campaign ends , either on Friday , when they play England in last league match , or on Sunday , when the final against Australia is scheduled . The players will be on their own from Feb 2 and assemble in Adelaide only on Feb 6 , when the first practice session for the World Cup is scheduled . They will then play two practice games against Australia on Feb 8 and against Afghanistan on Feb 10 , before taking on Pakistan in their first World Cup match on February 15 . Thereafter , there will be at least five days ' gap between each match. Over a period of 28 days , India will play just six matches before getting into the knockouts . The duration between the matches ensures a reduced workload for the players , giving them enough time to recover for the next game. If at all there is fatigue , it will be due to spending long periods away from home and family , and not excess cricket. That 's where the support staff 's role will be vital . They will need to keep the spirits of the boys high , so that they are fit and eager to get on to the field every time . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
