It 's about getting into good habits : Kohli The author has posted comments on this article Archiman Bhaduri , TNN | Nov 13 , 2014 , 11.31AM IST Kohli is already looking forward to leading the country for the first time in a Test match when India face Australia in Brisbane. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : Even as India look to maintain their winning run against Sri Lanka , Virat Kohli has one eye on the upcoming World Cup to be co-hosted by Australia and New Zealand . " The focus is to keep the guys happy and comfortable in a team environment. Right now we 're winning , but there would be times when the results wo n't go our way. It 's important that the core group feels comfortable irrespective of the fact that we are winning or losing , " the skipper said on Wednesday , the eve of the fourth ODI . Asked how his team , having already taken an unbeatable 3-0 lead , will approach the next two games against Sri Lanka , Kohli said : " It 's all about getting into good habits. The only area we are concentrating on is getting the team combination right , sticking to our strengths and creating that winning habit. We 're looking to get teams out rather than saving runs at the end of the innings now. It 's about building on every game you play. Just like you get better practising a particular shot , why not create a winning habit and win from difficult situations . This was something we lacked in the past , " he stated . Pace attack is another key area the team management is focusing on. " The all-out pace attack is something we 'll look forward to in the coming months. That 's an area of strength we 'll look to build in the Indian team. It will be a change of character for us as well , " he stated . Elaborating on the plan , Kohli said , " We would like to have pace up front with Ishant , Varun and Umesh bowling. We never really had two fast bowlers bowling at 150 kmph and a six feet plus bowler ( Ishant ) getting bounce from the wicket. " Yadav has impressed the skipper a lot. " I always believed Yadav , if he becomes more consistent with his bowling , would be right up there with the very best in the world. He 's got the fitness and strength , and swings the ball with a rhythmic smooth action. He 's improved a lot and I 'm really impressed with him , " Kohli said . Talking about captaincy , Kohli said : " As a player I used to often feel that a certain move could be implemented and then wondered why that was not happening. But as captain , I have the opportunity to open up my vision and implement what I strongly believe will work in certain situations. " Kohli , who is standing in for the injured MS Dhoni , is already looking forward to leading the country for the first time in a Test match when India face Australia in the first match in Brisbane . " It 'll be a massive moment to lead in my first Test , that too in Australia. I 'm really excited as I 've some plans in mind. The target will be to win the Test and not just focus on individual goals , " he said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
