It 's duty over emotion for new dad Dhoni The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 8 , 2015 , 11.35AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Not for nothing has Indian cricket captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni been given an honorary rank of Lieutenant Colonel in the Indian army. For him national duty comes first . Just a few hours after his wife Sakshi delivered a baby girl , Dhoni told the media that he would not be travelling back to India as he is on national duty and wants to focus on the World Cup . " I have been blessed with a daughter. Mom and daughter both are good. As of now I am on national duty and everything else can wait. The World Cup is a very important campaign and the rest can wait as of now , " Dhoni stressed . A few days ago , a BCCI source had told TOI that Dhoni would be given permission to visit his wife and child if he asked for it. It has been learnt that Sakshi underwent a C-section resulting in the baby being born almost a month before schedule. Sakshi was due to give birth in early March and by then India would have played a majority of their league encounters. Dhoni then could have taken a break before India 's quarterfinal assignments . But the unexpected delivery has stumped Dhoni and has left him with no option but to stay put in Australia and concentrate on the World Cup , especially as India are scheduled to face two tough opponents first up. It is Pakistan here on February 15 and then South Africa on February 22 at the MCG . They then move to Perth and face West Indies and UAE there. Their last two games are in New Zealand on March 10 and 14 , against Zimbabwe and Ireland . It remains to be seen if Dhoni will take a short break and make a quick dash home . But indications are that he is focused on India 's title defence and it is only after the team concludes its campaign that he would be able to see his daughter . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
