It will be Tamil Nadu vs Karnataka in Ranji final The author has posted comments on this article Archiman Bhaduri , TNN | Mar 2 , 2015 , 10.45AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : Tamil Nadu prevented a repeat of last year 's final as they beat Maharashtra on first-innings lead at the Eden Gardens on Sunday to set up a Ranji Trophy summit clash with Karnataka . Abhinav Mukund 's boys prevailed in a battle of perseverance which saw more than 1000 runs being scored in the first two innings which lasted about four and a half days . Last year 's runners-up Maharashtra were in the hunt to make the final for a second consecutive year as they began the final day on 394 for 5 , but all-rounder Vijay Shankar tilted the balance in Tamil Nadu 's favour in the 11th over of the morning when he sent back both overnight unbeaten batsmen . Maharashtra skipper Rohit Motwani was the first to go when the lefthander got an edge while trying to pull Shankar to be caught by wicketkeeper Dinesh Karthik for 11 . Two balls later , Ankit Bawne nicked an away-going delivery to Ramaswamy Prasanna at first slip to fall for 57. At 412 for seven , it was an uphill task for the Maharashtra tail to topple TN 's first-innings total of 549 and they folded up for 454 within two hours on the final day , thus falling short of by 95 runs . Pacer Aswin Crist dismissed Anupam Sanklecha and Domnic Joseph , when Samad Fallah was run out going for a non-existent run to end the Maharashtra innings . Tamil Nadu got some useful batting practice in their second essay with both Mukund and Baba Aparajith helping themselves to half-centuries and staying unbeaten on 66 and 51 , respectively , when play was called off just after the tea break . Skipper Mukund was a happy man after TN made the Ranji Trophy final for the 12th time. " It was a tough match . In spite of putting up a huge score , we were never relaxed as they were scoring briskly . But at the same time we knew any 500-plus score is not going to be easy to overhaul , " he stated . The opener felt getting two quick wickets in the morning changed the course of the match and praised Man-of-the-Match Vijay Shankar . " Shankar is developing into a good all-rounder. He had a great spell yesterday and I felt he was unlucky... brought him as first-change this morning and the move clicked , " quipped the skipper . TN fined for slow over-rate Tamil Nadu were fined for 'serious over-rate offence ' as they were found to be eight overs short. Match referee Sunil Chaturvedi docked captain Abhinav Mukund 40 per cent of his match fee , while his teammates were fined 20 per cent of their fee . Brief Scores : Tamil Nadu : 549 & 119 for no loss in 46.2 overs ( Abhinav Mukund 66 not out , Baba Aparajith 51 not out ) vs Maharashtra 1st inngs : 454 all out in 142 overs ( Swapnil Gugale 154 , Chirag Khurana 125 , Ankit Bawne 57 ; Aswin Crist 4 89 ) . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
