I will have to enable and empower Vidarbha boys : Badrinath The author has posted comments on this article Ruchir Mishra , TNN | Oct 14 , 2014 , 10.57AM IST At 34 , Subramaniam Badrinath has ticked most of the boxes. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NAGPUR : At 34 , Subramaniam Badrinath has ticked most of the boxes. He has represented his country. He has led India 'A ' , Challengers and South Zone sides many a time and won quite a few of them. He was part of Chennai Super Kings team , which won the Indian Premier League twice and Champions League Twenty20 once. He has been part of a very successful Indian Test team , which had a great run from 2008 to 2011. He would have had greater run , but he was competing with the greats of the game. Although he has n't given up hopes of representing the country again , Badrinath has never won the Ranji Trophy . Badri , as he is fondly called by his teammates , represented Tamil Nadu , which reached the final twice but ended up second best. Badri , now a professional with Vidarbha , will hope to achieve this goal with Vidarbha. The domestic stalwart , who is closing on 9,000 first class runs and has scored 30 tons , talked to TOI before the season . Excerpts from an interview... . Q : Do you feel Ranji Trophy is something missing from your great profile ? Of course , national honours ( winning Ranji Trophy ) is something I would love to have in my profile. It 's definitely my top priority. However , it 's important that I put it on the back of my mind and work on the process. It just can not happen overnight. It 's easier said than done. It 's important to concentrate on building a team , get these boys , with whom I will be working for the first time , to play their best cricket . Q : How difficult was it to leave Tamil Nadu ? It was n't an easy decision. However , it was important for me to look for different challenges. When you have played domestic cricket for so long , it 's important to keep yourself motivated. So , in that sense Vidarbha offer came at the right time for me . Q : You must have had offers from other states as well. What made you choose Vidarbha ? They approached me quite a while back. I find them ( Vidarbha Cricket Association ) very nice and run in very professional manner. They have some great facilities right from the grounds , practice facilities , gymnasium , swimming pool and stay. If you put overall package together , it helped in my decision and made my move to Vidarbha very smooth . Q : Apart from you , Vidarbha will have other professionals like Ganesh Satish and Rakesh Dhruv. Besides , they will have somebody like Paras Mhambrey , who is one of the top coaches in the country. How is it like working with them ? We are all just about coming together. It 's still early days. I have just played my first tournament with these guys. We are looking very good and balanced side on paper. We have Ganesh Satish as a prolific scorer in domestic cricket. I would love to have him in my team. Rakesh Dhruv is an experienced bowler. Paras has a very calm influence on the team and seems to have very good man management skills and that 's what is needed. I am really happy with the way we are progressing. I will be working with these guys and try to help them in whatever way I can. I think it is two different mindsets , playing for Tamil Nadu and playing Vidarbha. I will have to enable and empower the boys so that they can perform to their best . Q : How do you find the talent in Vidarbha ? They are good players. It 's important to guide them. Talent is one thing but going out there in the middle , understanding the situation , playing to the plan and executing it properly is a different thing. It 's important to get these boys thinking in the right direction. Each individual is important in the team and will have a specific role. If they understand their role and play it perfectly , I am sure we will achieve results . Q : Nagpur has always been a happy hunting ground for you.. . Nagpur wicket has always been very nice. I love that wicket. The ball really comes out at nice pace and the bounce suits my batting. It will be important for me to stay focused and play some good cricket this year. I have got a very nice break and then I worked really hard on my fitness. So , hopefully it will all come together . Q : You have led Tamil Nadu in the past. Would you continue to lead with the same attacking mindset ? It 's important for me to cross the bridge when I come to it and not think too far. I ca n't go with pre-determined mindset. What might have worked for Tamil Nadu may not work for Vidarbha. They are two different teams ; have players with different mindset and conditions. It 's important to start steadily and build up as the season progresses. I will be focusing more on processes rather than results. The ultimate aim is to play good and competitive cricket. The core of 5-6 cricketers needs to perform consistently. If we do that , the result will take care of itself . Q : Any specific cricketer you have noticed here ? They have always had a good bunch of cricketers. I have played a lot with Faiz ( Fazal ) . We had been together at Challengers. I have played a bit against Shreekant Wagh. There are many others whom I have seen closely for the first time. Overall as a team , there are some good exciting players and I do n't want to name each one individually. I am coming there for Godbole Trophy and I will get to see some more youngsters . Q : Is national berth still in your mind ? I have always maintained I will never rule that out. I am very fit and playing some good cricket at the moment. As long as I am playing good cricket and remain fit , I will try hard for that. That 's certainly on the back of my mind but at the moment I am focusing on the job at hand. I want to perform well for Vidarbha , take their cricket forward , and help the boys grow as professionals . Q : Experts like Sunil Gavaskar and Ravi Shastri supported you when you were ignored during the IPL auction. How does it feel to have the support of former greats ? I was really happy that many people supported me at that time. When greats of the game speak and write about you , it certainly gives you confidence. That is another area I am focusing on. I believe I can still play for two more years in the ( Indian Premier ) League. Playing for Vidarbha will help me in that. It will help me to go out there , express myself on the field and play with freedom . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
