Jadeja-Anderson controversy set to overshadow Lord 's Test The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 17 , 2014 , 10.51AM IST At least three Indian players are willing to testify that Anderson had " abused " Jadeja verbally. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : It is indeed ironical that 24 hours before the start of the second Test , the talking point at Lord 's , 'the home of cricket ' , was anything but cricket . With the Indian team management charging England pacer James Anderson with " abuse " and " physical contact " on Ravindra Jadeja on the second day of the Trent Bridge Test and the England and Wales Cricket Board ( ECB ) standing by their player and leveling counter-charges against the Indian all-rounder in a tit-for-tat move , the focus is on anything but cricket . The ICC on Wednesday confirmed that England manager Phil Neale has charged Jadeja under Level 2 of the ICC Code of Conduct for an alleged incident . The alleged offence has been reported under Article 2.2.11 of the ICC Code of Conduct for Players and Player Support Personnel . Jadeja has been charged for his alleged altercation with Anderson after they left the field for lunch on Thursday. It is alleged that after the players left the public area and entered the pavilion , Jadeja turned suddenly and took steps towards Anderson in an aggressive and threatening manner . With no official information filtering through on the actual incident , there was a considerable rise in speculations over what may or may not transpire over the next couple of weeks on this issue. The nature of verbal exchanges between Anderson and Jadeja , when the players were on their way back to the pavilion is not known. So , it can not be said with any degree of certainty that there was any racial connotation to it . According to unconfirmed sources , at least three Indian players are willing to testify that Anderson had " abused " Jadeja verbally and also " pushed " him on the staircase leading to the pavilion at Trent Bridge. England team sources also claimed to have players willing to back ECB 's claim that Anderson was not guilty . Whoever the ICC appoints as the Appeals Commissioner , to adjudicate this case , may have to rely solely on verbal dispositions from both sides , unless there is video footage that actually shows Anderson " pushing " Jadeja . The England team management , however , is confident that Anderson has no cause for worry. In any case , Anderson will be free to play till the matter is disposed of by the ICC-appointed commissioner. This means Anderson can easily play the second and third Tests . INDIA VS ENGLAND CONTROVERSIES : Vaseline controversy ( 1977 ) : Alarmed by the amount of swing left-arm pacer John Lever was getting during England 's tour of India in 1976-77 , India captain Bishan Singh Bedi alleged unethical use of Vaseline by the bowler. In the last Test at Chennai , umpire Judah Reuben warned Lever for using Vaseline. India lost the series and Bedi accused England management of not playing cricket. England camp termed the allegation as " nonsense. " Former England captain Ray Illingworth and John Snow later admitted that some greasy substance like Vaseline and lip ice had been used by the visitors . Zak & the bean talk ( 2007 ) : When Zaheer Khan came in to bat , an England fielder placed a jelly bean on the pitch. By placing a jelly bean on the pitch the England players were implying that Zaheer , who had shown phenomenal skill with the ball that he was up to some tricks. Zaheer lost his cool and waved his bat at Kevin Pietersen. Even as the British tabloids ran out of headlines , an incensed Zaheer bowled his heart out to a famous Indian win . Vaughan 's tweet ( 2011 ) : Michael Vaughan - a controversial figure - had alleged that VVS Laxman had greased the edge of his bat with Vaseline to avoid Hotspot technology to detect faint edges. " Has Vaseline on the outside edge saved the day for Laxman ? " the former England captain tweeted. Later , Stuart Broad claimed that he checked Laxman 's bat to see if Vaseline or any liquid was applied on the bat , but did n't find anything. Laxman , who has always played the game in right spirit , said he was surprised hearing what Broad told to the media. Sunil Gavaskar felt that Laxman should have sued Vaughan . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
