Jadeja fined 50 per cent , not found guilty of original offence The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jul 25 , 2014 , 03.55PM IST Ravindra Jadeja shakes hands with James Anderson after India won the second Test at Lord 's cricket ground on July 21 , 2014. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SOUTHAMPTON : Indian all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja has been let off with just a 50 per cent match-fee fine after referee David Boon found the player not guilty of the original level 2 offence , which involved his on-field incident with England pacer James Anderson . The incident occurred during the lunch break of the second day 's play at Nottingham during which , Indians claim that Anderson had allegedly " abused " and " pushed " Jadeja as the players were making their way into the dressing rooms . The England team management , which had initially described it as a " minor " incident , later filed a countercharge against Jadeja . Boon held a hearing in Southampton on Thursday evening , which was attended by both the players , their legal counsels , witnesses as well as BCCI 's MV Sridhar , Phil Neale and Paul Downton of the ECB , and the ICC 's Ethics & Regulatory Lawyer . In the meeting that lasted for over two hours , former Australia batsman Boon said that the charges on Jadeja only found him guilty to 'conduct contrary to the spirit of the game' . Commenting on his decision , Mr Boon said : " Under Article 6.1 of the Code , I had to be comfortably satisfied that the offence had occurred in order to find Jadeja guilty of an offence under Article 2.2.11 . " While I was in no doubt that confrontation did occur , and that such conduct was not in the spirit of the game and should not have taken place , I was not comfortably satisfied that this was a level 2 offence. Therefore , in exercising my discretion under Article 7.6.5 of the Code and having heard all the evidence , I was comfortably satisfied that Jadeja had committed a level 1 offence under Article 2.1.8 of the Code. " The hearing for Anderson , who has been charged with a level 3 offence , has been fixed on August 1 . The ICC-appointed Judicial Commissioner Gordon Lewis will be required to announce his decision within 48 hours after the detailed hearing August 1 . Though decks have been cleared for Anderson 's participation at Rose Bowl but he might miss the fourth and fifth match starting August 7 if the investigation finds him guilty of pushing and abusing Jadeja as alleged by the Indians . Charged with a level 3 offence , Anderson faces a ban of upto two Tests and eight ODIs if found guilty . All Level 3 breaches carry a penalty of between four and eight Suspension Points while Level 2 offences carry a fine of between 50-100 per cent of applicable Match Fee and/or up to two Suspension Points . Two suspension points equates to a ban of one Test , or two ODIs , depending on which type of match is scheduled next for the suspended player . The visitors lead the five-match series 1-0 with Hampshire playing host to the third match from Sunday . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
