Jagmohan Dalmiya could be Srinivasan 's president candidate The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Jan 23 , 2015 , 02.41AM IST As per the situation at the moment , Jagmohan Dalmiya will probably be unveiled as the new candidate for the president 's post. Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : The reality seems to be sinking in that N Srinivasan can not contest the BCCI elections. But the president-in-exile,who left for Sringeri mutt right after the Supreme Court verdict came out , is not devastated. The ICC chairman is happy that the Supreme Court has observed that he is clean and was not part of any cover-up operation for his son-in-law Gurunath Meiyappan. At the same time , he understands the implications of the judgment which says that there is a conflict of interest . Though Srinivasan is not ready to make public his final decision on whether he would contest as the BCCI president , he knows that the situation is tricky. It has been decided that once Srinivasan is back from Sringeri in a couple of days , a BCCI meeting will be convened in Chennai. As per the situation at the moment , Jagmohan Dalmiya will probably be unveiled as the new candidate for the president 's post. " We have spoken to him today. He looks the favourite , " a member of the Srinivasan camp said. Arun Jaitley , who met Srinivasan on Sunday at his residence in Chennai following his meeting with J Jayalalithaa , is not averse to Dalmiya being a presidential candidate . READ ALSO : BJP intervention imminent as BCCI grapples with deadlock But before that , there might be a last-ditch effort to ensure that Srinivasan stays in the saddle as BCCI president. Chennai Super Kings has already been made a separate company under the India Cements umbrella and it comes into effect from January 1. " We have n't yet presented the demerger details to the court , it will be done very soon , " a source close to the developments pointed out. But India Cements controls 100 per cent shares of the new company India Cements Private Limited and it 's unlikely that the Lodha committee will buy the theory that India Cements MD Srinivasan is not the actual boss . There is absolutely no chance that Srinivasan will step down as the MD of India Cements just to continue as BCCI president. The only other option left for Srinivasan is to sell off controlling shares of Chennai Super Kings Private Limited. But will that help ? Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
