Jagmohan Dalmiya returns as BCCI president , Anurag Thakur new secretary The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 2 , 2015 , 11.06AM IST Dalmiya played his cards perfectly on Sunday to make sure that he becomes the president. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : Veteran cricket administrator Jagmohan Dalmiya was unanimously elected president of the BCCI but the N Srinivasan camp suffered a huge setback with rival faction 's Anurag Thakur beating Sanjay Patel for the post of secretary at the Board 's Annual General Meeting here on Monday. ​ READ ALSO : Jagmohan Dalmiya timeline Barring Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association chief Thakur 's surprise win , ruling camp loyalists swept the elections for the other posts at the much-postponed AGM , where Srinivasan himself could not contest for the president 's post owing to a Supreme Court directive . Jharkhand Cricket Association 's Amitabha Chodhary was elected the joint secretary beating Goa 's Chetan Desai , belonging to the anti-Srinivasan faction , while Haryana 's Anirudh Choudhary won the treasurer 's position by defeating Rajiv Shukla . READ ALSO : Jagmohan Dalmiya - Return of the wily survivor While three vice-presidents were elected unopposed , the two other positions also went to the Srinivasan faction with TC Mathews ( Kerala , west zone ) and CK Khanna ( Delhi , central zone ) winning the polls. Khanna defeated the influential Jyotiraditya Scindia , while Mathews edged past Ravi Sawant . The three who were elected unopposed are Andhra 's Gokaraju Gangaraju ( south zone ) , Assam 's Goutam Roy ( east ) with ML Nehru of Jammu and Kashmir representing the north zone . The road for Dalmiya was cleared after Pawar failed to get a proposer from east zone , prompting the Maratha strongman to pull out of the race . BJP leader Thakur , it is learnt , won by just one vote over Srinivasan loyalist Patel , a scenario unlikely to have emerged had there not been cross-voting during the election process . However , the fact that other anti-Srinivasan camp candidates lost the elections proved that cross-voting took place only for Thakur . The 74-year-old Dalmiya , president of the Cricket Association of Bengal ( CAB ) , was unanimously accepted by all the units loyal to Srinivasan to return to a position he held more than a decade back . Dalmiya 's bid got a boost after Pawar failed to get any proposer from the East Zone , whose turn it was to nominate the president. The former ICC president had held the top post in BCCI between 2001 and 2004 . All the six state units from the East Zone owed allegiance to the Srinivasan camp when his loyalists met here on Sunday . Maratha strongman Pawar , who was projected as possible candidate for the president 's post , had also met his supporters . Dalmiya 's elevation to the position was necessitated after Srinivasan was forced to stay away from the election owing to a Supreme Court directive , which reduced his role to merely voting . In fact , the AGM itself was delayed several times due to the legal battle that Srinivasan is fighting in the top court . The apex court is currently hearing the IPL spot-fixing scandal in which conflict of interest with regards to Srinivasan 's position as BCCI president and IPL team owner came in for sharp criticism from court . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
