Jagmohan Dalmiya wins power play , will head BCCI The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Mar 2 , 2015 , 08.42AM IST Jagmohan Dalmiya , who is the president of both CAB and NCC , and thus controls two votes , gave a masterclass in the art of manipulation that stumped even old guards in the BCCI. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : Jagmohan Dalmiya , who will turn 75 in three months time , played his cards perfectly on Sunday to make sure that he will become the BCCI president for a second term when election results are announced at Monday 's Annual General Meeting . READ ALSO : Jagmohan Dalmiya timeline A long one-on-one parley with Srinivasan in Chennai on Saturday was followed by a round of meeting with the Pawar group on Sunday morning before filing his nomination with the 'support ' of both factions . The fact that Dalmiya will be elected unopposed gives him a bagful of bragging rights. Things , however , could have been a whole lot different had outgoing joint secretary Anurag Thakur not locked horns with Dalmiya in a shadow fight over the coveted BCCI post . While Thakur enjoyed BJP 's support , Dalmiya protected his vote bank , including his own two , zealously. Pawar , a veteran politician , was quick to read the lust for power in the eyes of the young Thakur as well as septuagenarian Dalmiya . Realising that neither would budge an inch , Pawar quietly withdrew from the fray on Saturday night and tried hard to hammer out a compromise in order to keep both on his side . Thakur was offered the secretary 's post by the Pawar group , but it failed to satisfy BJP 's young Turk , who started negotiating with the Srini camp at that stage. It is understood that BJP 's senior leadership had to step in and ask Thakur to back off . Dalmiya sensed his chance and 'defected ' to the other side. Technically , though , it would n't count as defection as Dalmiya 's candidature was backed by all six East Zone associations . Yet , Dalmiya did switch sides at the last minute to make sure that he would win uncontested. Had he filed his papers on behalf of the Pawar group , Dalmiya may still perhaps have sailed through had Thakur fallen in line , but he clearly did n't want to risk an election. It was a smart move by the wily administrator that left Thakur licking his wounds . If you are wondering why the Pawar group did n't pitch Thakur against Dalmiya for the president 's post with BJP 's help , the simple answer is that they could not find a proposer or a seconder from East Zone to back his candidature . The Pawar group was happy to claim tactical victory in this round , contending that Srini 's group would find Dalmiya hard to manipulate . Their Plan B , however , looks more promising. Having denied Srinivasan the president of his choice , the Pawar group has fielded Thakur for the post of secretary against Sanjay Patel in a straight contest . The fight for the joint secretary 's post will be between Chetan Desai of Goa ( Pawar group ) and Amitabh Choudhary of Jharkhand ( Srini group ) . Pawar 's group has also fielded Rajeev Shukla for the treasurer 's post against Anirudh Chaudhry in a bid to 'balance ' the team that is expected to lead the BCCI in the next couple of years . Monday will reveal which way the cookie crumbles . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
