Johnson scalps Vijay , hits Kohli on helmet The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Dec 11 , 2014 , 08.27AM IST Johnson struck just before lunch to remove Vijay. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Pace spearhead Mitchell Johnson struck just before lunch to remove Murali Vijay and give Australia a big breakthrough on the third day of the opening Test against India on Wednesday . It was a key wicket after Vijay had looked threatening in reaching his seventh half-century with 53 off 88 balls with three fours and two sixes . Johnson struck Virat Kohli on his helmet with a bouncer next ball but the India captain was OK to continue after a few moments of concern from the fielders. Australia batsman Phillip Hughes was fatally struck by a bouncer late last month . India got to lunch at 119 for two with Cheteshwar Pujara on 34 and Kohli not out three , still 398 in arrears , after Michael Clarke declared Australia 's first innings at their overnight 517 for seven . Pujara and Vijay posted India 's highest second-wicket stand at the Adelaide Oval , surpassing the modest 71 put on by Virender Sehwag and Sachin Tendulkar in 2007 . Vijay gave a tough chance on 11 when he edged Johnson through the slips cordon and Mitchell Marsh got fingertips to it diving across in front of Steve Smith . Vijay hit the first six of the Test when he advanced down the wicket and slammed off-spinner Nathan Lyon over the long-on ropes and followed up with a four next ball in the 20th over . He smashed another towering six in Lyon 's next over to keep the Indian scoring rate humming along at more than four an over . Clarke , who made one sprawling save in the outfield despite his stiff back , used five bowlers in the extended opening session . Shikhar Dhawan looked dangerous early , taking 14 off one Johnson over , before Ryan Harris bowled him off an inside edge for 25 off 24 balls in the eighth over . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
