Jonty Rhodes as Yahoo 's World Cup Analyst The author has posted comments on this article Saswati Mukherjee , TNN | Feb 27 , 2015 , 06.27PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Yahoo India recently announced that it has brought on board South African cricketer Jonty Rhodes as its analyst for ICC World Cup 2015 coverage on Yahoo Cricket . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Jonty , a cricketing legend on the field , will add his unique voice , deep insights and analysis to this year 's World Cup coverage on Yahoo . Yahoo users can now enjoy Jonty 's take on World Cup action , as it unfolds , through the pre and post-game analysis. They will also have exciting opportunities to chat live with Jonty and get his perspective on specific questions . With in-depth stories , expert analysis , player profiles , game statistics , videos , match forecasts and Jonty 's perspective on the game to make sense of it all , Yahoo Cricket promises to keep fans on top of all the cricket news , opinions and insights this season . Commenting on his association with Yahoo , Jonty Rhodes said , " Cricket in India creates such a high - whether it 's being played or talked about. With Yahoo Cricket , which is hugely popular with cricket fans not just in India but across the globe , I am looking forward to sharing my thoughts with passionate cricket lovers the world over , and also to hearing back from them. Together , this World Cup is going to be much more fun. " Gurmit Singh , Vice President and Managing Director , Yahoo India added , " Jonty is one of the most respected names in World Cricket , well loved by cricket fans in India. We believe that his connect with users and his original voice - brought alive through videos , in-depth stories and chat opportunities for fans , across devices - will make Yahoo Cricket the digital hub where users can converge to enjoy the World Cup. " Widely regarded as the first fielding superstar of the cricketing world , Jonty has enjoyed outstanding success throughout his career , in which he played 52 Tests and 245 One Day Internationals. His first shot at fame was during the 1992 World Cup , when he flew through the air to memorably run out Pakistan 's Inzamam-ul-Haq , thus creating one of cricket 's most iconic moments . Jonty has served as South Africa 's fielding coach. He is also an advisor-cum-fielding coach at the Mumbai Indians in the Indian Premier League . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
