Kallis back at Kolkata Knight Riders as team mentor The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Dec 5 , 2014 , 11.10AM IST Jacques Kallis spent the last four seasons with the Knights - a successful stint - during which the franchise won two IPL titles ( 2012 & 2014 ) and finished runners-up in CLT20. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : After a four-year stint with Kolkata Knight Riders , cricket 's greatest allrounder Jacques Kallis has renewed ties with the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) franchise to become its mentor and batting consultant from the coming season. According to reports , this could be a long-term role . Kallis spent the last four seasons with the Knights - a successful stint - during which the franchise won two IPL titles ( 2012 & 2014 ) and finished runners-up in the Champions League T20 in October . " KKR has been my Indian family for the last four years. I have built fantastic relationships with the management and players and have been very fortunate to assist KKR in winning two IPL titles , " Kallis said , talking about his relation with the Knights . The all-rounder bid goodbye to all forms of the game this year and said that while doing so he had the chance to think about his future. " When KKR approached me with this long-term offer , I jumped at it. It is a great brand and I am really looking forward to assisting them in my new role , " the South African said . Confirming the development , Knight Riders CEO Venky Mysore added " We are honoured to start a long term relation ship with Jacques in a role as mentor and different role as mentor and batting consultant . " Jacques ' commitment to KKR has been brilliant and his contribution both on the field and in the dressing room has been superb. We are delighted to continue the association. " Kallis had signed a two-year contract with Sydney Thunder for 2014 and 2015 and is also committed to playing in the Caribbean Premier League next year. " These commitments were made prior to concluding my new role at KKR , " the cricketer-turned-mentor said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
