Kanpur 's 'chinaman ' Kuldeep Yadav holds promise The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Oct 5 , 2014 , 12.59PM IST If Yadav comes good during the ODIs , it may not be a surprise to see him in the Test squad. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LUCKNOW : Chinaman bowlers are rare. A chinaman bowler playing for India is rarer , but it 's virtually impossible to find a chinaman bowler who represented his country before playing for his state team . Kuldeep Yadav is the exception. Having impressed for the Kolkata Knight Riders in the CLT20 , he now finds himself in the Indian team even before turning out for Uttar Pradesh at the senior level . Kuldeep met with success playing for the Junior India team in the World Cup and also in under-19 'test ' matches. He has been in the spotlight for over a year now and Kolkata Knight Riders promptly signed him up at the IPL auction earlier this year . Though he did not get a chance in the IPL , he came into his own in the CLT20 in the company of Sunil Narine and state-mate Piyush Chawla. It was just a matter of time before he broke into the Indian team . Having come in for wholesome praise from none other than Sunil Gavaskar , cricket followers in UP were expecting Yadav to be included in the squad for the ODI series against the West Indies. If he comes good during the ODIs , it may not be a surprise to see him in the Test squad . The story of Yadav , the son of a brick kiln owner , is quite interesting. Initially , he wanted to become a lef-tarm fast bowler , following in the footsteps of his idol Wasim Akram , till he ran into coach Kapil Pandey in in Kanpur . Pandey , on seeing his physique , advised him to become a spinner. And when the first ball he bowled was a chinaman , the coach told him to stick to the unusual style . " When as a 13-year-old I went to an academy in Kanpur , my coach Kapil sir felt I should bowl spin since I did n't have the physique for a fast bowler. As fate would have it , I bowled a chinaman first up. Though , my coach was surprised , he encouraged me to stick to it , " Kuldeep had told TOI after he was signed by KKR . A chinaman bowler is essentially a left-arm leg-spinner. While orthodox left-arm spinners predominantly use their fingers , chinaman bowlers are wrist spinners and their stock ball turns from off to leg for a right-hand batsman. The wrong one of a chinaman goes from leg to off and if well concealed , it can be a big weapon . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
