Keep Srinivasan , proxies out from BCCI president 's post , Sharad Pawar tells PM The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Feb 26 , 2015 , 02.02AM IST NCP chief Sharad Pawar met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discus the issue of elections for the BCCI president 's post. ( File photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The fight for the Indian cricket board 's ( BCCI ) top post reached Narendra Modi 's doorstep on Wednesday when NCP chief Sharad Pawar met the Prime Minister to discuss the issue . Sources said Pawar , also the Mumbai Cricket Association president , made it plain that he would brook neither the continuation of BCCI president-in-exile N Srinivasan nor any attempt by him to rule by proxy by installing his loyalist — board secretary Sanjay Patel . Srinivasan has been barred by the Supreme Court from contesting the BCCI elections because of conflict-of-interest issues in the wake of the IPL betting and spot-fixing controversy. But Srinivasan will be able to retain effective control , his opponents feel , if he succeeds in getting Patel anointed as his successor . READ ALSO : Pawar 's decision on contesting BCCI election likely by February 27 Sources said Pawar made it clear to Modi that he was willing to support " any candidate " apart from Srinivasan or his " proxies " or " cronies " , a stance which at once opens up the prospect of negotiations between BJP government and the Pawar camp for taking control of the richest sports body in the country . Given that Modi is unlikely to back any candidate from the Congress camp , the meeting can throw up several interesting possibilities. Sources close to him said Pawar , a former BCCI and International Cricket Council ( ICC ) chief , is amenable to a politically non-aligned choice or someone who shares good equations with both the BJP and NCP , as the new BCCI president. " He is also willing to back any BJP candidate with whom he might share a good rapport , " said sources . READ ALSO : Srinivasan will not run for BCCI chief , SC told Although Pawar told Modi that he was not very keen on returning at the helm of BCCI , sources said he could step into the race as a consensus candidate , that is , someone who has got the majority support. Sources said that Pawar was " deeply unhappy " with the current circumstances and , hence , unwilling to let go of any option . As of now , the Srinivasan and anti-Srinivasan camps within BCCI command an almost equal number of votes , with the latter hoping to sail through with votes from institutional bodies Combined Universities , Railways and Services. Incidentally the issue also figured in the conversation that BCCI vice-president Rajiv Shukla , an influential figure who will have a role to play , had with the PM . The BCCI elections are slated for March 2 and the last date for filing of nominations is March 1. This time , it 's the turn of East Zone affiliates of the BCCI to propose and second the name of the president . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
