Keep Test specialists out of IPL : Fleming The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Aug 23 , 2014 , 10.38AM IST One of the shrewdest cricket brains , Fleming was known to make his team punch well above their weight. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : The catastrophe in England may have found out MS Dhoni the captain and the rest of the bunch , but his Chennai Super Kings coach , Stephen Fleming , feels the 33-year-old is still the best man to take India forward . " My experience as a captain is that when the team is not playing well , you are under pressure. How far that pressure goes and how long it goes for becomes a thing for the decision makers. ( Alastair ) Cook was under tremendous pressure at the start of the series , but fortunes changed quickly. It was astonishing and that is why people are trying to get their heads around it and quite rightly they are asking for answers. How far you go will be the Board 's decision and what the succession plan is . Who is next in line ? Who is putting pressure on MS ? It is fine just to say that the captain has to go , but if you are giving the problem to someone else without a strong solution , you are just papering over the problem , " Fleming , said at a New Zealand Education event . The 41-year-old has been at the helm of things at CSK since 2009 and it was understandable where he was coming from having watched Dhoni bounce back from hopeless situations in the IPL over the years . " Maybe a Dhoni under pressure is still your best option. He has got the experience and I know he has got the respect of the dressing room - they are two pretty important ingredients , " the former opener said . The Indian batsmen 's incompetence against the moving ball was exploited by the England bowlers. Fleming felt that it would n't be a bad ploy to keep Test specialists like Cheteshwar Pujara and Murali Vijay away from the IPL . " I have got to be careful because I am not an IPL voice. It is all I do and I just love it. The thought about creating specialist Test players is an excellent one. A lot of countries are doing it , earmarking some players for one form and that is something India might need to consider. The IPL is such a good competition to play in , to keep a player out of it , they might have to think of remuneration in another form because all players want to gravitate towards it and play it. There will have to be a pretty strong directive to keep them away. Becoming the Test player could be enough , but it is something they need to consider. Pujara and Vijay are very talented players in the short form , but keeping them out of it would probably enhance their Test game , " said Fleming . One of the shrewdest cricket brains , Fleming was known to make his team punch well above their weight , although it does n't reflect in his overall records . But the 41-year-old felt that blaming the coach would be like missing the woods for the trees . " I think first and foremost the players played badly and in my experience there is only so much you can do as a coach. The real issue is that the Indian players played poorly in the last three Tests. If there are deeper issues at play , then it is up to the coach and captain and the man management and the team to get to it. The first point is to make sure that communication is strong between the captain , coach and the team. When you are under pressure , one of the first things that can be solved is communication , " he said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
