Kerala boy set to realise World Cup dream The author has posted comments on this article Vijesh MV , TNN | Feb 19 , 2015 , 11.12AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 KOCHI : All-rounder Krishna Chandran Karate toiled hard for Kerala in age-group cricket for years. But despite some decent performances with the bat and ball , Krishna Chandran was never considered for Kerala 's senior side . Disappointed and disgruntled , Krishna chandran packed his bags for UAE in 2010 in search of greener pastures. Though he found a job soon , he did n't give up his passion for the game he loved. He started playing club level cricket in Dubai and his performances with the bat and ball soon became a talking point in the cricketing circles in the desert. And he was rewarded with a call-up to the UAE national team in May last year. He has n't looked back since. A handy middle-order batsman and a gentle medium-pacer , Krishna Chandran has become a vital cog in UAE national team 's cricketing set up in less than a year . On Thursday , Krishna Chandran would step on to the field for the biggest match of his career as UAE take on Zimbabwe in their World Cup opener. " It 's a dream come true for me. I am very excited about our WC opener. As an all-rounder , I am looking for a significant contribution for my team with both bat and ball , " Krishna Chandran told TOI from Nelson on Wednesday . His confidence exudes from his performances in the warm-up games leading up to the World Cup. He snared three wickets in the practice game against Australia and his scalps included George Bailey , Glenn Maxwell and Mitchell Marsh . He followed it up with an impressive 49 and two wickets against Afghanistan. " I was able to deliver with the ball against Australia and scored some valuable runs against Afghanistan. I hope to continue my good run till the end , " said the 31-year old. A native of Kollengode in Palakkad district , Krishna Chandran would become only the third Keralite to be part of a World Cup squad after Sunil Valson and S Sreesanth. And if he makes his debut on Wednesday , he would become only the second player from Kerala after Sreesanth to have played in a World Cup game . Krishna Chandran reckons that his team has the potential to create a few upsets. " Our training has been great for the last 7 months. We have no special plans for Zimbabwe but I am sure we can give them a run for their money. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
