Kevin Pietersen slams 'bullying ' England culture The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Oct 6 , 2014 , 11.52AM IST Pietersen said he still did not understand why he was effectively sacked. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Kevin Pietersen has hit out at the " horrendous " bullying of some of his former England team-mates and accused former coach Andy Flower of " ruling by fear " . Despite being England 's all-time leading run-scorer across all formats , the South Africa-born batsman was sensationally axed after the team 's 5-0 Ashes thrashing in Australia in 2013/14 . The England and Wales Cricket Board then gave several convoluted explanations as to why their former captain had been discarded , citing the need to " support " current skipper Alastair Cook as a central reason . In an interview with Monday 's edition of the Daily Telegraph , to promote an autobiography due to be published on Thursday , Pietersen said he still did not understand why he was effectively sacked . He added that Cook had been put in an " incredibly difficult position " by the ECB , following his banishment from the team . Despite everything Pietersen -- who has scored over 8,000 runs in 104 Tests , including 23 hundreds at an average of nearly 48 , insisted he had not given up hope of representing England again even though he played no County Championship cricket for Surrey last season . " Why was I sacked ? I 'd love to know , " he said . Pietersen , 34 , added he 'd been shocked by the way senior bowlers Graeme Swann ( now retired ) , Stuart Broad and James Anderson as well as currently injured wicketkeeper Matt Prior abused fielders for dropping catches . " The thing that horrified me was when Andy Flower and Andrew Strauss said : 'Guys we 've got to stop this , it 's not right for the team , there are guys that have come to ( us ) that are intimidated to field the ball.' " And ( the bowlers ) had the audacity to stand there and say : 'No , if they 've f * * * ed up we deserve an apology. ' It 's the most angry I ever got in that dressing room . " I thought , 'I reckon I could hit these guys. Who do you think you are , to ask for an apology from someone who 's trying his heart out ? Are you perfect , are you never going to drop a catch ? Are you never going to bowl a wide ? ' " But the double standard for me was the bigger thing. If one of them messed up -- if Jimmy messed up , or Swanny - nothing was ever said. Prior left them alone . " He never left alone ( Nick ) Compton or Ravi ( Bopara ) or Trotty ( Jonathan Trott ) . " I went after Prior and said Prior should n't be in that side because he 's a bad influence , a negative influence -- he picks on players. He 's back-stabbing , he 's horrendous , he 's bad for the environment. " Pietersen , denying he was an 'awkward ' character , said his biggest 'offence ' had been to stand up to former Zimbabwe batsman Flower . " I told him on numerous occasions : 'You 're playing by fear here , you want guys to be scared of you. And Andy I 'm not scared of you. ' And he hated it. " Pietersen added he was ignored by Flower after informing him of the stress-related condition which led to fellow batsman Trott 's shock exit from the Ashes tour following England 's first Test defeat in Brisbane . " The day we travel after Trotty goes home , Andy Flower comes to me and shakes my hand , " said Pietersen . " He says : 'Can I shake your hand please ? ' I was like , what ? And he says : 'Can I shake your hand ? ' He says : 'I should have listened to you. ' And just there and then I was like , 'uchh , go away'. " As for criticising Strauss in 2012 , Pietersen said he regretted called him a " doos " , which he insisted was a mild insult , but that he felt " broken " after discovering that , having made a brilliant Test hundred against South Africa , the match before he was suspended , a parody 'Kevin Pietersen ' Twitter account was being run " from inside our dressing room " . Pietersen also rejected accusations of selfishness. " My job in that batting order was to take risks , calculated risks , dominate the Test match so that we could be in a position where we could win the Test match . " I did pretty well to score the number of runs I did at the average I did with so many man-of-the-matches - so I 'm not having this where people say , you played for yourself , you 're selfish. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
