Kiwis take on Scots in skipper 's hometown The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 16 , 2015 , 10.43AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 DUNEDIN : If ever there 's a competition for the most beautiful cricket ground in the world , University Oval in Dunedin would figure somewhere on top. Hills on three sides , green banks and hardly any concrete structure inside the cricket campus - the setting takes your breath away ; it also takes your mind away from the mad rush that 's central to the idea of cricket in India . But there 's a World Cup game to be played here in a day 's time and the road leading to the campus has been renamed Brendon McCullum Street. This shows there 's a sense of anticipation among the fans as New Zealand take on Scotland on Tuesday , but strangely nobody 's queuing up for tickets . It does n't mean that the Kiwis do n't love their sport , just that they prefer the feel of laid-back entertainment. And come Tuesday , there might well be a bit of adrenaline rush in store for the locals.Even though he has shifted to Christchurch , McCullum is originally from Dunedin and he would aim to take off at the venue where he grew up playing his cricket . The square boundaries here are short , McCullum is a fierce cutter and puller of the ball and if he starts connecting , there might just be something scary coming the way of Scots , who are returning to World Cup after 2007 . Scotland are aware of the looming threat - that there 's a possibility of a world record being smashed if New Zealand , who thrashed Sri Lanka in the first game , bat first. But that 's not scaring them off , given their creditable show against a strong New Zealand XI a couple of months back . " We played very well in that game and pushed New Zealand really hard. Of course , they are playing a high-level of cricket but that does n't mean we ca n't force an upset. We have prepared well and looking forward to this game , " Preston Mommsen , one of Scotland 's top batsmen said after a practice session on Sunday . Dunedin is called the Edinburgh of the south and there 's a good Scottish population in the city. The team , in fact , attended a Scottish festival on Sunday and they are banking on the support that they might get in this game. " It feels good when there 's somebody shouting for you. We do n't get chances to play at the top level regularly. This will be a chance to show the world that we are good , " Mommsen said . But that 's easier said than done , especially with the form the hosts are in. They looked one of the best prepared units against Sri Lanka , and there 's absolutely no complacency in the ranks. " Scotland are here because they deserve to be here. We can not afford to make mistakes and hope to get away with it , " New Zealand 's Corey Anderson said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
