Know how much it hurts to lose after coming so close : Hadlee The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 13 , 2015 , 10.23AM IST Sir Richard Hadlee does not want to mope over the past , but you can sense a tinge of sadness when you quiz him about New Zealand 's inability to make the final time and again. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : Sir Richard Hadlee is one of the greats who never won a World Cup. He played in three semifinals and knows all about the pain of coming close and yet being unable to take the final step . Had he been part of the 1992 New Zealand team that lost in the semifinals after seven consecutive wins , the Kiwis would probably have been world champions in that edition . Hadlee does not want to mope over the past , but you can sense a tinge of sadness when you quiz him about New Zealand 's inability to make the final time and again . " I had my time , I played three semifinals and I know how much it hurts to lose out after coming so close. I had retired before the 1992 World Cup , but that was a fantastic New Zealand team , was n't it ? " Hadlee said , settling down for a conversation after a promotional event for LG at the Hagley Oval . The master of seam bowling has his media commitments and the agreement was that he would n't entertain questions on the current World Cup teams. Even then , he got excited when the conversation veered towards the Kiwis ' chances . " I know how a World Cup galvanizes a nation. The participation of fans makes it such a special occasion and I only hope that this group does what we have n't done , " Hadlee said . The Kiwi great played in the 1970-80s , a period which was dominated by some great allrounders. Ask him about them and Hadlee is a happy man. " Imran , Kapil , myself , Botham - what a group that was ! We always used to have those battles of one-upman ship when we were playing against each other , " he said . Hadlee shrugged his shoulders when asked if any allrounder would be able to make a mark in this World Cup the way they used to , but he acknowledges the importance of this rare breed of cricketers. " I am not going to name anybody , but of course , allrounders will hold the key to this tournament , " he said . Hadlee did n't forget to mention Jacques Kallis , who will be missed in this World Cup following his retirement from international cricket last year. " I would say Kallis was the best allrounder ever , a player of his quality is bound to be missed. " The champion cricketer is a Christchurch man and the World Cup is virtually happening in his backyard. He got emotional when talking about the spirit of the city as it fought back from the earthquake to be ready for a showpiece event of this magnitude . " I stay close by. I have seen how this stadium has come up in virtually no time. It 's a fantastic effort by one and all and I hope it 's going to be a great World Cup. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
