Kohli also deserved the 'Man of the Series ' award The author has posted comments on this article Avijit Ghosh , TNN | Jan 11 , 2015 , 09.57AM IST Virat Kohli celebrates after reaching his century during the third day 's play in the fourth Test against Australia at the Sydney Cricket Ground. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The announcement was expected. Australia 's captain Steve Smith was declared the man of the series in the four-Test contest that ended on Saturday. But was that the right choice ? Was n't Virat Kohli , India 's latest Test captain , equally or more deserving ? Statistics marginally favour Smith. The 'temporary captain ' , his own words at the postmatch presentation , piled up 769 runs with four tons at an average of 128.16 . It was n't just Bradmanseque but something more -he broke Don 's record for the highest runs in a series against India. To add to Smith 's achievements , he also fielded fabulously. One is aware that he dropped two chances in Sydney but his catch of Rohit Sharma in the same game was sensational . Real Madrid goalkeeper Iker Casillas would have been proud of that effort. As a captain too , Smith has the better result to show -1 win , two draws - though he seemed to have missed a trick or two in the last two games . Kohli smashed 692 , also with four centuries , at an average of 86.50. His ground-fielding too was outstanding. The Delhi cricketer often flung himself to stop drives , generally successfully . The run out of Shaun Marsh on 99 in Melbourne was an outstanding example in accurate throwing and athleticism. As a captain , Kohli fares worse of the two : 1 loss , 1 draw . But statistics can not fully bring out the qualitative difference between the two performances. To begin with , Kohli scored those runs away from home. In other words , the conditions were much more familiar to the Aussie . Smith also batted against far more benign bowlers. Not just Smith , most Australian batsmen scored freely against the wayward Umesh Yadav , Shami Ahmed and Varun Aaron who bowled boundary balls with alarming frequency . Kohli 's runs came off quality pacemen such as Mitchell Johnson , Ryan Harris and Josh Hazlewood. He had to earn his runs much harder. If he had been facing his own bowlers , he would have probably scored much more . With Dhawan and Pujara failing regularly , Kohli often came out to bat to avoid a crisis or a collapse. Three of Kohli 's knocks ( 141 , 54 and 46 ) came on the game 's fifth day on worn-out tracks . His aggressive 141 in Adelaide was arguably the best innings of the series. Not just because he dominated the proceedings on a turning track. He created a match-winning situation when none seemed to exist . It can be argued that Australia delayed its declaration in the third Test because of that innings. As a consequence , India had to face lesser overs which helped the side eke out a draw. In this backdrop , his runs were fare more valuable in the context of the series . The Aussies were hard on Kohli in the field and the crowd hostile outside ; the latter he also mentioned during the post-match presentation interview. Yet nothing seemed to hold him back . In this backdrop , the award should have gone to Kohli , or even shared between the two cricketers. It has happened in the past. Unfortunately , the judges went by statistics , and ignored perspective . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
