Kohli , Dhoni slide down ; Shami gains 14 places in ODI rankings The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 2 , 2015 , 02.17PM IST Shami gained as many as 14 places to be at 11th now. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE : Virat Kohli and Mahendra Singh Dhoni slipped down the ladder to be fourth and 10th respectively , while Shikhar Dhawan retained his seventh spot in the latest ICC ODI batsmen 's rankings released here on Monday . In the ODI bowlers ' chart , however , Indian pacer Mohammad Shami and Ravichandaran Ashwin made upward movements. While Shami gained as many as 14 places to be at 11th now , Ashwin 's eight wickets in the ongoing cricket World Cup so far helped him climb six spots to 16th . There have been a plenty of reshuffle in the rankings at the end of 23 pool matches in the World Cup , currently being staged in Australia and New Zealand . Kohli has slipped a rung but is still the best-placed Indian batsman at fourth position , while skipper Dhoni has lost two places to be at 10th . Rohit Sharma and Suresh Raina are the other Indian batsmen to be figuring in the top-20 list. Even though Rohit has lost three places to be at 16th , Raina has climbed up four positions to be at 20th . Sri Lanka 's Kumar Sangakkara , who is currently the leading run-scorer in the cricket 's biggest spectacle with 268 runs , has moved up two places to join South Africa 's Hashim Amla in second place. The batting table is headed by South Africa captain AB de Villiers , who leads by 49 ratings points . While none of the Indian bowlers figure in the top-10 , both Shami and Ashwin 's progress has been significant. However , injured Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Ravindra Jadeja have both lost four places each to be at 17th and 18th . The bowlers ' list is still topped by Pakistan spinner Saeed Ajmal , even though he is not a part of the squad in the mega-event . Meanwhile , India 's Jadeja has managed to retain his seventh position in the ODI all-rounders ' table , which is now headed by Sri Lanka 's Tillakaratne Dilshan , who has become number one following his 229 runs with the bat and three wickets with the ball in the World Cup so far . In team rankings , Australia continue to lead the field with 120 ratings points , while world champions India are second , four points behind. South Africa , on 113 ratings points , are third , and Sri Lanka fourth . Following New Zealand 's four wins in as many matches and England 's three defeats in four games , the two sides have swapped places. New Zealand is now fifth , just one ratings point behind Sri Lanka , while England are now sixth , eight rating points ahead of Pakistan . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
