Pushkar Karamungikar A digital manifestation of bullshit Ca n't see live score , ca n't go to today 's matches , ca n't do many things that one frequently does on a cricket website. Must 've been developed by some American Football fan or this could be a product of a dumbass director , do n't want to blame the developer . Pradeep Siriwardena What have you done ! ! ! This used be my most used app for almost 3-4 years. It 's totally gone wrong with this new update. It takes ages to load , eat up the CPU , never auto update. Please fix this fast guys coz this was one of the best apps . User reviews Tamanna Tazin February 16 , 2015 I Ca n't Open this app on my android This app is not working on my phone.I 've tried several times but it wo n't open. Please do not deprive me from the news and views and live score card that I need to know the most in this season of World Cup . Arkapravo Sarkar February 27 , 2015 How could you do this ? Did your competitors bribe you to shoot yourself and commit a suicide just before the World Cup ? Unbelievable that you made such a good app into such a piece of $ # ! T.. No other word for it. Utterly disgusted ! ! Rama Srinivasan February 19 , 2015 How a good app turned bad The most un- user friendly app ever ! ! I cant directly go to points table or fixtures kr even members of a team. Did anyone test this as a lay man user ? ? Glenn Major February 15 , 2015 Best app now by far the worst You 've totally wrecked what was a brilliant app that I used daily. And right before the Cricket World Cup - genius ! ! Pushkar Karamungikar February 23 , 2015 A digital manifestation of bullshit Ca n't see live score , ca n't go to today 's matches , ca n't do many things that one frequently does on a cricket website. Must 've been developed by some American Football fan or this could be a product of a dumbass director , do n't want to blame the developer . Pradeep Siriwardena February 14 , 2015 What have you done ! ! ! This used be my most used app for almost 3-4 years. It 's totally gone wrong with this new update. It takes ages to load , eat up the CPU , never auto update. Please fix this fast guys coz this was one of the best apps . taranjit hothi February 21 , 2015 Very good app but.. ( galaxy s5 on wiffi ) Scores does n't refresh automatically and commentary does n't either.you have to go back and and then to live commentary to get fresh scores.if that is sorted it will be 5 stars.forgot to mention this same thing happens with moblie website as well . Nishant M February 28 , 2015 Just screwed up the app Cricinfo has just released the current version of the App for android without even testing. It is very difficult to even find the live score card for Ind vs UAE match. I need to go to news , then click for articles related to india vs uae and then click for live scores. The new design sucks. Even after using it for couple of weeks , its still been difficult to navigate. Not at all user friendly. Even after going to the score card , the commentary at the summary is not updated. Very poor design. Such a shame . Chris Swart March 6 , 2015 Disappointed Commentary does n't get updated on summary screen like with the old app. Not as good interface either. You have gone from great to mediocre. Could yoh please fix . Ahmed Malik March 6 , 2015 Updated Version is useless Before updation it was very good. Now ball to ball commentary does not work at all. It stops at a ball unless we close the app and restart it again. Bull shit updation I do n't know why few companies update their apps if they ca n't check the bugs first . Archit Garg March 9 , 2015 No words ! Worst update ! Worst update ever for an app. Scores does n't update automatically. No graphics. Previous version was good. Espncricinfo has gone crazy just before the world cup. Uninstalling it . Arijit Ghosh February 15 , 2015 Screwed up redoing a UI overhaul just before World Cup The new UI is just so much confusing and hard to navigate. Such a bad time to downplay with this app knowing that it 's World Cup time and everyone ll be tapping through apps like these. Suggestion is to have a rollback or a more intuitive UI ASAP . Huzeifa Abbas February 21 , 2015 Crap.. Scores are all over the place.. Home screen something else.. Score card summery something else.. Full scorecard something else.. And updating takes forever too..What 's wrong with you ? vikrant mistry March 19 , 2015 Still horrible... 19-3-15 Have not even checked this app , 1star is for cricinfo website Home page 15-2-15.... Why did you change the home screen ? Where 's the simplicity of surfing & selecting content to read ? I downloaded this app to air my views for website mess up... There were 43 comments [ all negative : ( ] and what was your reaction to them ( 1 ) you stopped accepting comments & ( 2 ) more shockingly ~ you deleted all of them. Ca n't believe it , You actually did it. God save cricinfo. I have literally stopped visiting website for avoiding to look at current homepage . Rohit Palshetkar February 15 , 2015 Why did you change it ? Bad bad app. The earlier version was a million times better. The scores Dont get updated in the new version. Please go back to the old app Srikanth Rayabhagi February 28 , 2015 Worst design after update ! If there is one app that can have rich data with no design sense , then that has to be this app. Look at some mobile apps before you launch these. Who would have patience to find click targets and have some feedback system rather than email. Previous ( 5 stars ) : No doubt that cricinfo is rich with content.. This app makes full use of the data and brings life to the new app Full Review A Google User February 28 , 2015 Good to worse I can understand the need to update the app before the world cup. But this is not a time to experiment your new design concepts. Instead of showing current matches , your concept is ranking important or popular matches is not displaying the current or last played match. Well fix it. 1 star until fixed Deepak Deepu March 7 , 2015 Slow and late updates This app is slow to open up. Then it loads non sense pages. After that you can see 3 balls late score which only updates if you refresh even if auto refresh is on. I 'm using it on Nexus 5 and to be honest this app sucks. They also have removed shake to refresh . Ravin Punchihewa March 21 , 2015 Useless This app used to be very good before espn took over now its cluttered and ca n't find anything easily ! Vineeth Mohan February 21 , 2015 It was the best , not anymore I used to love this app when it used to complement the website. Now they tried to go overboard and hence failed miserably. The UI is not intuitive. There are so many tabs and menus. And all this just before the WC. Even rhe websites UI is a mess now. Please roll back. Please. I am already using another app that shows scores in a better and clean way . Bipin Kumar February 27 , 2015 Have you gone mad ? Where are the recent overs tab ? And why did you have to change the user interface during the world Cup ? That 's the shittiest design I have ever seen Rejeehan P March 15 , 2015 A digital disaster You took a beautiful app , turned it upside down and then took a massive dump on it. Seriously , did no one test this crap ? It 's a UI nightmare ! Please get rid of the 'design brain ' behind this idea and go back to what you had before. I went from using this app several times a day to avoiding it like the plague. Thanks Obama Chary Ashok March 11 , 2015 Worst Update Is there any way that I can go back to previous version. Cricinfo used to be the best cricketing app .Updates have made this app useless.Time to use cricbuzz app . Arun Kumar March 11 , 2015 I made a big blunder by updating the new version. The old version was the best and this latest version is the worst. I request everyone not to update it. I wish I could get back the old version. Cricinfo have just committed suicide. Cricbuzz is dramatically getting popular whereas Cricinfo drastically losing its charm. Are anyone from Cricinfo listening to people 's opinion. It 's obvious that none like the new version . Praveen K February 28 , 2015 Google Now integration Thanks for that. It actually made the widget useless for me. Now , I actually want to read news on the app because I save time looking for it. Excellent move ! Niraj Gahukar February 14 , 2015 New Version totaly sucks The Previous version was much better.. the current version runs very slow.. Otherwise its a great app.. Missing that good stuff Kaleem Choudhry March 5 , 2015 Worst update Since this new versuon of this app it has gone from a good app to worst. Complicated and horrible to navigate not to mention that fixtures and current games are not displayed. Just right now India is playing vs West Indies and this app does not this match at all in the list . hrisith choksi March 9 , 2015 hmc whats gone wrong here. it use to b my day to day app. must say that even before I got up from the bed I use to check this app. something has seriously gone wrong over last week. it just keep crashing... n gives msg that unfortunately cricinfo has stopped working... like every minute or may b even every few seconds... I guess when it 's trying to refresh... do something guys... . Gautam Kumar February 18 , 2015 Destroyed ....Annihilated. .. Gr8 work ppl. It was easy to navigate and read before this update. What have you done. Remember app users do not drool over photos n videos. Data charges are precious. We need scores and reports n views. You have totally destroyed a good app. Shame on you . Andrew Cantrick March 12 , 2015 Really sucks after last update A couple of days ago this app was easy to use with a very very good live score layout. After this last update it 's cluttered , covered with intrusive ads and has a crap confused live score layout. Pity Peter Watkinson March 2 , 2015 Ruined an excellent app This used to be a great example of superb app design. What happened in the last update ? It 's now laggy and confusing. It 's really hard to navigate. Might be a good idea to take another look at this and bring back the previous design.. . Donovan & Erica Smith March 8 , 2015 Worst update ever You have turned a great app into a piece if rubbish with thd latest updates. Prior to the update this app was awesome the widget was excellent. Easy access easy navigation it was brilliant but now I 'll probably uninstall it . Vineet Sharma March 18 , 2015 Disappointed ESPN CricInfo disappoints me every 4 years during the WC with the pathetic update. Makes their app so complex and not at all user friendly ! ! ICC official app is so much better... . Deepak Raj March 14 , 2015 Please bring back the old version I hate the new version of the app ! The layout is congested and the font differentiation is so bad I am not able to read between different information clearly. The entire layout is complicated. Why ? Why ? Why did you have to change a layout that was working well and that had access to all related info at a swipe away . Apurv Gupta March 25 , 2015 Rubbish app Worst app ever of cricket. Cricbuzz is miles better. This app has too heavy interface and unreadable menu and confusing structure. Do not install . Adam Miller March 20 , 2015 Used to be great , now terrible. Latest update has made it so unstable. Unusable now. Ca n't believe they risked such a bad update during the world cup ! karthick ramesh April 5 , 2015 Not bad ! ! ! Once My friends use to say that cricbuzz is faster than cricinfo and also user friendly , hence to use that. I use to argue with them that cricinfo is lot better. But now i have no words to give them. It takes time to load and the UI is pretty normal. It was better before. I like the fantasy part being brought to mobile. But it is tough to change the team ! i have already signed in to the app but while trying to access fantasy , it is again asking me to sign in. Thats too in webview ! ! ! Crap ! Damo Ternog April 8 , 2015 UTTER DISGRACE This is the worst app I 've ever seen. I 've been using cricinfo and the cricinfo app for many years , but this is simply unusable. Tried to fix what was n't broken and ended up with this garbage. This version needs to be completely scrapped , either revert to the old version or start from scratch. Someone needs to be fired for this . Shubhdeep Chakraborty February 23 , 2015 Pathetic update What the hell happened..you ruined a perfectly good app with the ui change..now it 's slow and clunky..and it does n't even look good..it 's hard to navigate ! ! god were the developers drunk ? And then you had to do it just before the WC ? ! Naveen Rao February 27 , 2015 So this is what they mean by shoooting yourself in foot It was a brilliant app with simple UI and without much clutter. Latest update has just killed it. It 's a piece of crap. Whoever designed this UI should be fired. It is so cluttered , useless info. For example when batsman score says 1 ( 11 ) I know it 's 11 balls , no need to write ( 11B ) which in small font looks like 118.. Just bring back old version or every one will be moving to cricbuzz . Full Review What 's New -Link to live streaming of matches on the ESPN Cricket 2015 app from the scorecard of the World Cup matches and access to video highlights from the commentary for users in the US & Caribbean . -Now , send us your comments for a match from the app ! -Improved World Cup section . -UI improvements for improved access to content . -Bug fixes and many performance improvements . Read more
