Kohli loses number one spot in ODI rankings The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jun 20 , 2014 , 07.47PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 DUBAI : India 's batting sensation Virat Kohli 's decision to skip the recently concluded three-match series against Bangladesh has seen him lose the number one spot to South Africa 's AB de Villiers in the latest ICC ODI rankings issued today . Kohli was leading de Villiers by nine ratings points in the natting chart , but since a player loses one per cent of his rating for missing every match the Indian batsman has dropped a total of 13 points to now trail the South African stroke-maker by four ratings points . De Villiers is also at the top of the batting table in the Test batsmen list , while Kohli is at the 10th position . However , all this could change over the next couple of months depending on how de Villiers performs in Sri Lanka and Kohli performs in England . Like Kohli , Shikhar Dhawan and Rohit Sharma have also lost ground for opting to rest from the tour. Dhawan is now 10th after slipping two places , while Sharma has fallen out of the top 20 to be at 23rd position . However , Suresh Raina , who captained India in Bangladesh , has moved up two places to 27th . In the ODI bowlers ' chart , both Ravindra Jadeja and Ravichandran Ashwin have lost two places , to be at seventh and 17th spots , respectively . However , pacer Umesh Yadav has jumped eight places to claim 78th position , while Stuart Binny , who returned figures of 4.4-2-4-6 in the second ODI , has gained 23 places and is now at 206th spot . Jadeja , meanwhile , has retained his fourth place in the ODI all-rounders ' list , which is headed by Mohammad Hafeez of Pakistan . In the team rankings , there is no change to the pre-series rankings of India. India are on equal points with Sri Lanka ( 112 ratings points ) but are ranked behind the Island nation in third place when ratings are calculated beyond the decimal point . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
