Kohli powers India to clean sweep with unbeaten ton The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Nov 16 , 2014 , 09.59PM IST India 's Virat Kohli celebrates after beating Sri Lanka in the fifth and final ODI in Ranchi. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 RANCHI : Skipper Virat Kohli led from the front with a gritty unbeaten century as a dominant India completed a resounding 5-0 whitewash over Sri Lanka by winning the fifth and final one-day international by three wickets on Sunday . Opting to bat , Sri Lanka rode on their skipper Angelo Mathews ' unbeaten 116-ball 139 to put up a challenging 286 for eight at the JSCA International Stadium Complex , before Kohli ( 139 ) guided India home with eight balls to spare . Kohli struck 12 fours and three sixes during his 126-ball captain 's knock as India boosted their confidence ahead of the tough upcoming tour of Australia . A screaming Kohli sealed the issue by hitting Mendis for a six over long-on after completing his 21st century and the fourth this year . Incidentally , Mathews too scored the same number of runs in setting up respectable score , but the day belonged to his Indian counterpart as India geared up to the Australia tour before the World Cup with a memorable series triumph . Watched on by his GCA president Amit Shah , Akshar Patel played a perfect cameo remaining unbeaten on 17 from 14 balls in an undefeated 57-run partnership from 32 balls . Chasing a fighting 287 , India looked in firm control with Kohli and Rayudu ( 59 from 69 balls ) putting on 136 runs for the third wicket , but the latter was unfortunately run out by the skipper triggering a mini collapse . Lanka almost had the twist in the tale after Mendis ( 4/73 ) claimed the wickets of Stuart Binny and R Ashwin in successive deliveries as Kohli remained stranded at the other end . The collapse that began with Rayudu 's wicket meant India lost five wickets for 81 runs but Kohli held his nerves and took on Mendis , stepping out to hit a big six and a four to turn the match in India 's favour . Scripting yet another run chase , Kohli brought back the memories of his 77 not out in their run chase against England in January last year , in the first match at the venue . It was their best ever fight on the gruelling tour that came up suddenly , and heavy dew played a big role in their narrow defeat . Earlier , struggling at 85/4 in 18.3 overs , Mathews arrested the slide and ensured that they produce some fight for the first time in their most forgettable two-week sojourn. Mathews ' 116-ball knock was laced with six fours and 10 sixes . With their senior batsmen coming a cropper yet again , Mathews found a perfect ally in his deputy Lahiru Thirimanne , who made 52 off 76 balls with the help of two fours and a six , in their 128-run partnership . Mathews also excelled with the ball , dealing two early blows on India as he removed both the openers in his first two overs to give the hosts their worst start of the series . Rahane was out for two after a good length ball kept low and the batsman could not do much , but the biggest joy for the Lankans came when Mathews castled the record-breaking man Rohit Sharma , who got out for 9 after playing a cross-batted shot . At 14/2 in 4.3 overs , the Lankans had the best chance to sign off on a winning note . But a resolute and ruthless Kohli stood in their way as the stand-in skipper formed a perfect alliance with Rayudu to set up the chase . The duo ran hard for singles and scored mostly in the V without taking much risks on a wicket that had some uneven bounce and aided spin . The duo completed 100 runs from 108 balls in a risk-free approach against an innocuous Lankan attack . Nothing going for them , the Lankans needed a miracle to break the partnership and the duo had a blip in the middle when Kohli ran Rayudu out after the latter completed his half-century . Having ran the length of the pitch , Rayudu was sent back by an unmoved Kohli only to sacrifice his wicket in an uncalled manner . Rayudu , Uthappa and Jadhav fell for addition of 65 runs with the target still 72 runs away as Kohli looked restrained and approached his 100 in singles and twos . Earlier , Mathews broke loose when he hit Karn Sharma for a six over extra cover to complete his half-century in 76 balls . The Indian bowlers suddenly looked lacklustre with Mathews hitting lusty blows and in one over the Lankan captain hit part-time bowler Rayudu for two sixes and a four as their partnership crossed 100-mark in just 134 balls . Firing in all cylinders , Mathews ' second 50 came in just 26 balls and then raced to his first ODI century , surpassing his previous best of 93 ( against Pakistan in August ) . But Mathews was left stranded at the non-strikers ' end as Dhawal Kulkarni bowled a fine last over in which he claimed two wickets and gave away four runs . Kulkarni was expensive but was the pick of the Indian bowlers with 3/57 , while Akshar Patel ( 2/45 ) and Ravichandran Ashwin ( 2/56 ) took two apiece . Opener Tillakaratne Dilshan produced a quickfire 24-ball 35 as Sri Lanka had raced to 32/1 in 4.4 overs , but they were soon tottering for 85/4 in 18.3 overs . Sri Lanka had the perfect script to post a big total but they once again frittered away a good start given by Dilshan who punished Kulkarni for three boundaries in the very first over . The intention was clear but lack of application from his partner Niroshan Dickwella , who was making his ODI debut , meant that they failed to build on the flying start . India , on the other hand , were sharp on the field as Rayudu took a forward diving catch to dismiss the left-hander Dickwella , who failed to read a slower one from Kulkarni . The visitors were going at a healthy run-rate of 6.85 with Dilshan firing at the other but the Lankan 's experiment of trying out a new combination failed with India striking in the fifth over . Kulkarni might have been be expensive to start with but Binny bowled a tight line at the other end as the duo did a good job with the new ball in absence of India 's pace spearhead in this series Umesh Yadav , who was rested . Binny did not have the pace and Dilshan looked untroubled , picking them with ease till a gem of a slower one angled in to beat the Lankan opener 's defence and crash into his middle stump . Dinesh Chandimal ( 5 ) looked out of sorts in the middle and struggled against the Indian spinners who were brought in after the 12th over before getting out to Patel . Jayawardene looked elegant as usual but could not prolong his innings before Ashwin generated a sharp turner with bounce and the Lankan could not escape . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
