Kohli survives helmet bouncer to lead India fightback The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Dec 11 , 2014 , 11.13AM IST Kohli was struck with the first ball he faced from Johnson. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Skipper Virat Kohli survived being hit on the helmet by a Mitchell Johnson bouncer as he led the way for India on the third day of the opening Adelaide Test against Australia on Thursday . Kohli was struck with the first ball he faced from Johnson and remained unbeaten on 48 with Ajinkya Rahane on 19 at tea . The tourists were 223 for three and still 294 runs in arrears , after Michael Clarke declared Australia 's first innings at their overnight 517 for seven . Johnson welcomed Kohli with a bouncer but the Indian captain was OK to continue after a few moments of concern from the fielders. Australia batsman Phillip Hughes was fatally struck by a rising ball late last month , plunging the cricketing world into mourning . Kohli could not avoid the short-pitched delivery and ducked into the path of the ball which crashed into the front of his helmet . The Indians only lost the wicket of Cheteshwar Pujara for 73 in the middle session after losing two wickets before lunch . Pujara missed his chance of a Test century in Australia when he was bowled in unfortunate circumstances by off-spinner Nathan Lyon . Pujara played a defensive shot , but the ball dribbled off the bat and on to the stumps , ending his 188-minute stay at the crease for 73 . He put on 81 runs for the third wicket with Kohli. Although Pujara has scored two double Test centuries against England and Australia in India , he has only scored one ton away from the sub-continent with his 153 in South Africa a year ago . Pujara and Murali Vijay posted India 's highest second-wicket stand at the Adelaide Oval , surpassing the modest 71 put on by Virender Sehwag and Sachin Tendulkar in 2007 . Pace spearhead Johnson struck just before lunch to remove Vijay , who had looked threatening in reaching his seventh half-century with 53 off 88 balls with three fours and two sixes . Vijay hit the first six of the Test when he advanced down the wicket and slammed Lyon over the long-on ropes and followed up with a four next ball in the 20th over . He smashed another towering six in Lyon 's next over to keep the Indian scoring rate humming along at more than four an over . Shikhar Dhawan looked dangerous early , taking 14 off one Johnson over , before Ryan Harris bowled him off an inside edge for 25 off 24 balls in the eighth over . Michael Clarke spent the first two sessions in the field and made a couple of sprawling saves in the outfield despite his back injury . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
