Kohli ton seals curtailed series for India The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Oct 17 , 2014 , 10.59PM IST Virat Kohli celebrates his century during the India- West Indies ODI match , in Dharamshala. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 DHARAMSALA : Virat Kohli struck a rollicking 127 as India fashioned a 59-run win over the West Indies here today , effectively sealing the ODI series 2-1 after the visitors dramatically pulled out from the remainder of the tour over an acrimonious pay dispute with their board . Kohli reassured that he is back in form and struck a sublime knock off 114 balls to push India to 330 for six after the West Indies put them in to bat on a wicket expected to favour the bowlers . Opener Ajinkya Rahane ( 68 ) and Suresh Raina ( 71 ) were the other big contributors to the formidable score , reached also with the help of loose bowling and sloppy fielding from the West Indies . The West Indies , who made their mind of going back home last night and were somehow convinced to play at least today 's game , found it tough to give their best. Their negative body language expectedly affected their overall game , culminating with their unsuccessful chase that ended at 271 all out in 48.1 overs . A rare positive for them on the day was Marlon Samuels ( 112 off 106 ) , who raced to his seventh ODI hundred and second in three matches . The Caribbean batsmen crawled to 27 for 2 in 11 overs , making it difficult for them to get near the stiff target . Samuels fought a lost battle with Darren Bravo ( 40 ) chipping in at the top. Andre Russell came up with a 46-run cameo ( off 23 balls ) towards the end . It seemed that the West Indies were batting on a different wicket to the Indians , who scored runs at will . Bhuvneshwar Kumar ( 2/25 ) and Umesh Yadav ( 2/44 ) made the ball talk early on as the opposition batsmen went into their shell . Samuels at least showed the will to fight and saved his team further embarrassment. He hammered nine fours and six sixes , especially taking spinner Ravindra Jadeja ( 2/80 ) to the cleaners. The game poignantly ended with Samuels getting bowled off Mohammed Shami . Young left-arm spinner Akshar Patel , brought into the side in place of Amit Mishra , ended up with tidy figures of 26 for two in 10 overs . Earlier , Kohli along with Raina ( 71 ) and Rahane ( 68 ) made batting look easy on a pitch that was expected to behave differently. Kohli showed his class on way to reaching his first hundred across formats since February , following which he experienced the first lean patch of his career. With the century , he also became the fastest to score 20 hundreds in ODIs . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
