Kohli will remain Australia 's target for verbals in Sydney : Johnson The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Jan 3 , 2015 , 08.43AM IST Mitchell Johnson has said Virat Kohli is vulnerable to sledging. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Australia 's pace ace Mitchell Johnson has said India 's new captain Virat Kohli is vulnerable to sledging and the Aussies will continue targeting him with the verbals in the fourth Test . " He ( Kohli ) is an interesting character , he really does like to get involved in it all , " Johnson said. " But I think you can get him to a point where the emotions do come in. That 's where you do want to get him , I think , and that 's where the mind games come in. " Referring to the incident in Melbourne when Johnson hit the ball back at Kohli in his followthrough and the batsman lost his cool , Johnson said , " We saw after I threw the ball at the stumps...he did n't really like that too much. No one does....but I apologized and I thought we 'd moved on. He started to play a few loose shots after that so we knew he was losing his cool a little bit. We saw an opportunity there and we 'll see how he goes as captain now. " The Aussies are masters of the art of sledging and can get under an opponent 's skin without the umpires getting a whiff of what has been said. With MS Dhoni having retired , Johnson and Ishant Sharma are the only two players from either side to have played in the infamous 'Monkeygate ' Test in Sydney in 2008 , when the sledging metamorphosed into full-scale antagonism which swamped the series . Johnson said he was keen on avoid ing a repeat of that incident , and admitted things got a bit heated in the first Test in Adelaide , when Kohli was India captain . " It 's mostly harmless stuff...but it ( Adelaide ) was a bit different. Davey Warner got fired up with a bit of a send-off and it got a bit too in your face. When there 's people touching each other , that 's crossing the line. Physical contact is definitely a no , no...and there 's stuff written about what happened seven years ago ( with Monkeygate ) ...but that has never been an issue with us. " Kohli has been at the centre of altercations between the two teams , and Johnson said he expected the Indian captain to lead in a confrontational manner . " Ever since I 've seen him play cricket , he 's always been pretty fiery , " said Johnson. " I think you 'll see a lot different to what MS did. " Interestingly , Kohli has also been raising the 'Homework gate ' issue , in which some Aussie players were sent back home from India in 2013 for not completing tasks assigned by the coach . " He 's mentioned that a couple of times , " said Johnson , " He 's mentioned his scores , mentioned the 4-0. It keeps getting rubbed in a little bit. " Kohli may be trying to 'out-Aussie ' the talkative Aussies in this series , but it 's not clear if the Australians themselves have woken up to the fact . Incidentally , Johnson said he knew something was up with Dhoni moments after the Melbourne Test ended. " He was standing out in the middle after the game. It was almost like he was waiting to have a conversation with someone. It was really weird. I 've never seen that before. Normally he just goes and he 's always been pretty much to himself. We just had a strange feeling something was going on. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
