Kuldeep in , Ashwin 'rested ' for Windies ODIs The author has posted comments on this article Ehtesham Hasan , TNN | Oct 5 , 2014 , 12.50PM IST The 19-year-old Yadav still has to feature in a first class game for his state Uttar Pradesh. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : On the recent tour of England , India 's No. 1 off-spinner R Ashwin spent a better part of the long series soaking in the balmy summer sun with a pair of cool shades , enjoying a quiet read on the periphery of the picturesque grounds even as India struggled in the Test matches . On the tour of South Africa and New Zealand in last winter , Ashwin was played in just one Test at Johannesburg where his 40 overs did n't yield a wicket . In England , even as the pundits cried hoarse , Ashwin was n't chosen until the fourth Test at Old Trafford where he went wicketless. He did taste some success ( three wickets ) in the fifth Test at The Oval where the team lost by an innings. The man from Tamil Nadu then played a steady hand ( seven wickets in four games ) in the ODIs that followed as the visitors routed the hosts 3-1 . The 28-year-old , possibly the most underworked senior cricketer in the last year or so , got an extended 'rest ' after he was not picked for the first three ODIs against the visiting West Indies . Instead , the five-member national selection committee has named the uncapped chinaman bowler , Kuldeep Yadav , in the 14-man squad on Saturday . The selectors , who watched the entire game between India 'A ' and West In dies in Mumbai on Friday , flew to Bengaluru to get captain MS Dhoni 's views on the names. It is not known if the five-man committee consulted team director Ravi Shastri before finalizing the squad . The 19-year-old Yadav , rated highly by his coaches , still has to feature in a first class game for his state Uttar Pradesh. The man from Kanpur has apparently been rewarded for his performance in the Champions League T20 , where he has picked four wickets from six games for Kolkata Knight Riders before Saturday 's final . The selection clearly shows the confusion in the selectors ' minds as they look to zero-in on the third spinner for the tour of Australia which comes up after the Test series against the West Indies . Even as one tries to understand the needless rush to blood the talented Yadav ahead of the 2015 World Cup , the selectors have shooed away leg-spinner Karn Sharma without watching him bowl in a 50-over match after sending him to England and have done talented Gujarat all-rounder Akshar Patel no justice whatsoever by ignoring him after including him for the series against Bangladesh in June earlier this year . Karn had earned a call-up after his doughty all-round show for India 'A ' in the quadrangular series in Australia a few months ago . The tried , tested and often forsaken Amit Mishra returns to the fold based on his impressive show against the West Indies during Friday 's practice game . Incidentally , Mishra , who had made his ODI debut against South Africa in 2003 , has featured in just 25 ODIs in the last 11 years . Squad : Mahendra Singh Dhoni ( Capt. ) , Shikhar Dhawan , Ajinkya Rahane , Virat Kohli , Suresh Raina , Ambati Rayudu , Ravindra Jadeja , Amit Mishra , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Mohammed Shami , Mohit Sharma , Umesh Yadav , Murali Vijay , Kuldeep Yadav . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
