Kumble cherishes ICC Hall of Fame honour The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 22 , 2015 , 11.04AM IST Anil Kumble is the fourth Indian to be inducted into the ICC Hall of Fame after legends Bishan Bedi , Sunil Gavaskar and Kapil Dev. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Anil Kumble says it is a great honour to be inducted into the ICC Hall of Fame. He is the fourth Indian to be honoured after legends Bishan Bedi , Sunil Gavaskar and Kapil Dev . The ceremony will take place between the change of innings during the India-South Africa World Cup match at the MCG on Sunday . A day before his induction , Kumble told reporters : " It 's indeed a great honour to be inducted into the ICC Hall of Fame. I 'm extremely delighted , really proud to be a part of great luminaries who have played this great game of cricket over the last so many years. To be the fourth Indian into the Hall of Fame is something very special for me. " Recalling his career , he said : " Playing for India was something I dreamt of as a kid. To have the honour of representing the country for the first time in Sharjah in an ODI , and then later on when I received the Test cap. In fact Azhar gave me his cap . " He said , 'You 'd better keep this , it 's a lucky cap, ' so that 's something which I treasure and I still have it. I think it 's a great journey that I have had. I 've achieved what I could on the cricket field , even with my batting. I was pretty satisfied at the end of it with no regrets at all . " To get a cap after retirement is something very special , something that I will cherish. It 's all the struggles and hard work that one has been able to put in over the 20 years of my cricketing career. Yeah , it 's a great feeling , but I cherish all those caps. I have all those caps. In fact , the cap became a bit of a superstition , when I came to Australia in 2003-04 , if you notice and go back at watching those videos , it 's those faded caps which keep continuing to adorn my head. I just used the same cap for almost five , six years. It 's turned from blue to gray , and it 's pretty faded. I still have it , but it 's a great feeling to wear the India cap for the first time and then to have done that for 132 Tests and 237 ODIs. " The ICC started the Hall of Fame in the centenary year ( in 2009 ) when they first inducted 55 players . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
