Lahore HC to hear petition to probe Pakistan 's poor World Cup show The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 23 , 2015 , 09.11PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 KARACHI : The Lahore High Court on Monday admitted a petition for hearing in which the petitioner has asked the court to order a probe into the poor performances of the Pakistan cricket team in the World Cup . The petitioner , advocate Rizwan Gul has nominated Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif , PCB chief Shaharyar Khan and PCB 's board member Najam Sethi as respondents in the case . " It is my right as a citizen of Pakistan to demand an inquiry into the reasons for the poor show. People pray and wait for four years for the team to perform well in the World Cup and they let us down badly , " he said . LHC judge , Justice Ijazul Hassan will hear the case on February 24 . Pakistan 's poor performance including losses to India and West Indies and the string of controversies surrounding the team have angered the cricket-crazy nation . Former players and critics have called for heads to roll and former fast bowler , Shoaib Akhtar described Misbah-ul-Haq as a " weak " and " selfish " captain . Senior politicians have also waded into the matter with some of them including opposition leader in parliament , Khursheed Shah calling for cricketers like Javed Miandad and Wasim Akram to be appointed to run cricket affairs . A senior politician , Babar Awan has also questioned the money spent by PCB and called for a probe into board affairs . Former chairman and presently the chairman of the PCB Executive Committee Najam Sethi has faced the most criticism for his decisions to appoint Waqar Younis as head coach and send Moin Khan as chief selector to the World Cup . The presence of the Director international cricket operations , Zakir Khan in Australia has also been questioned . Sethi yesterday blamed the media for not supporting the team and putting them under undue pressure. He also said that knowing the facts one should not have too many expectations from the team . " I can understand the fans ' disappointment at the team 's performance in the World Cup matches but at same time it does not justify the sort of criticism against the players , " he said at the sidelines of Lahore Literature Festival yesterday . Sethi , who is also the nominated President of the ICC for the next term , said Pakistan team played less international matches than the other countries participating in the game 's biggest competition which was a drawback for them . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
