Lalit Modi grateful to Supreme Court The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Apr 30 , 2014 , 06.57PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI/JAIPUR : Former Indian Premier League ( IPL ) commissioner Lalit Modi Wednesday hailed the decision of the Supreme Court which ordered the opening of the Rajasthan Cricket Association ( RCA ) election ballots by May 6 . " Extremely grateful to honourable Supreme Court for allowing the opening of RCA elections ballots.Looking forward to results now being opened , " tweeted Modi , also thanking his fans . " Thank you 4 your continued support & well wishes during this trying period. Could not have done it without u all. Now final leg need 2win it. " Amidst the allegation of the fudging of the voters list , the Dec 19 elections were held under the supervision of former apex court judges Justice N.M. Kasliwal and Justice S.P. Pathak , who were appointed observers by the Supreme Court . The elections had become contentious since Modi , who is living in self-exile in London , is expected to win the ballot for the post of RCA president . An apex court bench of Justice Anil R. Dave and Justice Shiva Kirti Singh directed the registry to send the results in a sealed cover back to Kasliwal , the principal observer for the elections , for release . Meanwhile , RCA representative in the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) Mehmood M. Abdi also hailed the order. In a statement , he termed the decision of the court as a disappointment for the BCCI which has all along tried to stall the return of Modi . Abdi added that as the apex body of cricket administration BCCI was expected to safeguard and support the interest of the game in Rajasthan. Instead , it chose to scuttle and detail the democratic process for reasons of bias and prejudice since it feels that people they do not prefer are likely to be elected to RCA 's new executive committee . He further added that the Supreme Court rejected almost all demands of BCCI. It refused to cancel the nomination of Modi to RCA elections and did not restrain him from taking charge as RCA president , if he is declared elected . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
