Lalit Modi 'removed ' as RCA president The author has posted comments on this article Saibal Bose , TNN | Oct 12 , 2014 , 12.52PM IST Modi was 'removed ' as president following a no-confidence motion. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 JAIPUR : Another chapter was added to the Rajasthan Cricket Association soap opera on Saturday when Lalit Modi was " removed " as president following a no-confidence motion . Deputy president Mehmood Abdi , secretary Sumendra Tiwary and treasurer Pawan Goyal were also " removed " after 23 district cricket associations moved the motion . In a body of 33 , the Rajasthan State Sports Act requires a quorum of two-thirds , out of which three-fourths has to agree to any such resolution . That puts the cut-off at 22 , which was crossed at the extraordinary general body meeting convened under secrecy . The Modi loyalists , however , claim that this is a move by a few disgruntled elements and they did not have the numbers to pass such a resolution as is being claimed . " They have placed dummy candidates from many district associations , who can not legally represent these bodies , " a Modi loyalist told TOI . " There were at least 13 of us who had no idea about this meeting , so how can they claim that they have a quorum of 23 ? " The revolt was led by Amin Pathan , a BJP strongman from Kota , who incidentally was amongst Modi 's most vocal supporters when the latter was elected president in December . Pathan was named as the acting president in the resolution on Saturday , with Chittorgarh 's Shakti Singh Rathore as the acting secretary . " We were assured that RCA will not suffer ( following Modi 's election ) and that BCCI would not take any action , " Pathan said justifying the resolution . " Now , we will write to BCCI and ask them to lift the suspension as Modi is no longer president. " That , however , will depend on the courts , where a number of related cases are being heard. The Pathan-led body also removed the earlier battery of RCA lawyers from its legal committee and appointed its own candidates . The new set of lawyers can withdraw the cases that the RCA has filed against the BCCI. However , with Mehmood Abdi , a seasoned lawyer himself , taking charge of matters , the Pathan group has a fight at hand . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
