Lalit Modi removed from Rajasthan Cricket Association The author has posted comments on this article Saibal Bose , TNN | Mar 9 , 2015 , 01.22PM IST Modi faction had the support of about 15 units. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 JAIPUR : It was perhaps the most violent no-confidence motion ever in the history of sport. Lalit Modi was " ousted " as the president of Rajasthan Cricket Association at a special general body meeting here on Monday with 17 votes against him and only one in his favour. With five disputed votes remaining in sealed covers , the Amin Pathan-led group , which had moved the no-confidence motion , had achieved the required three-fourth majority of the minimum attendance ( 23 ) to make a quorum , as per the requirements of the Rajasthan State Sports Act . On paper , this appears to be a smooth and simple procedure. However , when you take into account the 12-odd voters of the Modi group sitting outside , along with another five who were on the disputed list , this procedure gets a different twist. These voters were denied entry into the meeting as they were late by 10 minutes. The delay occurred because the vehicles in which these voters were arriving at the venue — RCA Academy inside the Sawai Mansingh Stadium complex — were stopped on the way , pelted with stones and their occupants pulled out and thrashed . Had these voters been allowed to cast their votes , the no-confidence motion would have fallen through. Out of 33 votes , 25 was the minimum requirement for Pathan group , a number which they could not have achieved . However , for JC Mohanty , chairman of Sports Council , who was entrusted by Rajasthan High Court with the job of conducting this special general body meeting , the procedures had been properly followed. " We could not allow anyone inside after 11 am ( scheduled start of the meeting ) as it is in the rules , " Mohanty said , while declaring the no-confidence motion a success. He admitted that it had been brought to his notice that some of the voters had been attacked on the way , but said that was beyond his brief. For the IAS officer , his job was done as soon the counting of the votes finished . Rajasthan Cricket Board meeting in Jaipur : Amin Pathan supporters and Lalit Modi supporters clash , buses vandalized. pic.twitter.com/ZJ84L7e4VH — ANI ( @ ANI_news ) March 9 , 2015 " We were on our way to the SMS Stadium when we were stopped by a mob of over 100 and huge stones were thrown at us , " one of the Modi loyalists told TOI. " Before we could react , the hooligans were inside the bus. We tried to hide under the seats , but were pulled out and beaten with rods. " Another recounted how he was threatened that he would be set on fire unless he handed over all the documents he was carrying. These documents were legal papers to prove their credentials as genuine voters. Damodar Sharma , conductor of the one of the buses ferrying Modi supporters , corroborated the events. " The occupants of my bus were pulled out by the mob , beaten up and chased on the road , " he said . Pathan , a BJP strongman who is expected to take over as the president , said that ousting Modi was essential to save cricket in Rajasthan. " Because of Modi , RCA was banned by the BCCI , " he said. " Cricket in the state was suffering. We have not got any international matches and even IPL games have been shifted out. Now that Modi is out , the ban on RCA will be revoked and IPL matches will be staged here. We have taken charge and cricket in the state will be back on track. " Pathan refuted allegations that he was behind the attack on Modi 's voters. " I have been at the venue since 10 , how can I be involved ? I do n't even know whether such a thing has actually happened. " He even suggested that the attack could have been a conspiracy. " They ( Modi group ) knew that they would be ousted and could have resorted to such tactics. " Mehmood Abdi , spokesman of the Modi group , moved court against the procedure in which the meeting was conducted. It will come up for hearing on Tuesday . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
