Lendl Simmons looks to cash in against spin The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Oct 5 , 2014 , 01.16PM IST Simmons has proved himself as a Twenty20 ace. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : He is one of the few batsmen to have played at every position from No. 1 to 8. Opener , middle-order bat or finisher , Lendl Simmons has been there , done that for the West Indies since he made his ODI debut against Pakistan in Faridabad eight years back . " I can adapt to different positions. Not everybody has that talent. Wherever my team needs me , I will be there to fill that role. I have enjoyed opening to batting at No. 5 for the Windies , though it is mentally challenging. For the Mumbai Indians , I open the batting. I can bat anywhere , " Simmons said at a media interaction on Thursday at the Cricket Club of India ahead of a five-match ODI series against the hosts . It is apparent that the 29-year-old loves to open. His presence at the top of the order has infused fresh energy into MI -in eight games in the IPL this year , Simmons stroked 394 runs @ 56.28 , including three fifties and a hundred . " It was a good experience to play in the IPL , where I got to bat on different pitches. I always like myself as an opening batsman. My mind is settled there , " he said , while expressing relief that the West Indies team management has made it clear that he will open in the forthcoming ODI series in India . One of the reasons why Simmons has been successful in the IPL and the Champions League T20 , where he has forged a lethal opening partnership with Australian veteran Michael Hussey , is that he uses his feet well against spin . " I like batting against spinners. I like the challenge of batting against R Ashwin and ( Ravindra ) Jadeja so hopefully once I get a good start , I can counter attack and come out on top , " he felt . Simmons has proved himself as a Twenty20 ace , but how different and difficult will it be to translate that success into the ODI format ? " One has to bat longer and concentrate for a longer period of time here. Yes , there is powerplay , where you go and express yourself , but after that there are still 40 overs left in the game , so it is just a matter of pacing yourself through the innings , " he explained . Should he do well in India , his uncle Phil , who tore into the best of bowling attacks on his day , should be a proud man. It will also clear the way for Simmons to fulfill his big dream -opening for the Windies in the World Cup . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
