Less demand for Kashmiri willows despite Team India on high The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 15 , 2015 , 04.30PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SRINAGAR : A good performance by the Indian cricket team at the World Cup usually translates into more business for bat manufacturers in Kashmir but this time the demand for the willow products has been low despite the Men in Blue reaching the quarterfinals of the mega-event . " There is not much demand for cricket bats from rest of the country this time around due to some inexplicable reasons , " Manzoor Ahmad , who owns a bat manufacturing factory at Sangam in south Kashmir 's Anantnag district , said . Manzoor said that the bat manufacturers got huge orders when India team was progressing through the group stages of the World Cup in 2011 , which was held in the subcontinent . " Normally , the orders for cricket bats stop before the semi-final stage but in 2011 , we kept getting orders even after India made it to the finals , beating Pakistan , " he added . Bashir Ahmad , another cricket bat factory owner , said the only reason for scarce demand could be because of ongoing annual examinations in schools all over the country . " May be the focus on examinations has taken away the attention that cricket gets in the country , " he said . The sluggish demand for the cricket bats is threatening the industry that provides direct or indirect employment to nearly three lakh people in the valley . " We send truck loads of bats ahead of and during the World Cup . The demand would be much higher if India do well. However , the output in the factories is almost next to nothing these days , " Nazir Ahmad , another factory owner , said . He also insisted that if a good performance by the Indian team at the World Cup could not give impetus to the demand , the bat manufacturing industry of Kashmir can be in for tough days ahead . Even the sports kit dealers in Punjab have similar views on the demand for cricket bats . " The demand has been sluggish this time. There is not much enthusiasm even though our team is doing very well , " Director of Weston Corporation Inderjeet Singh said . He said while there could be many reasons for the drop in demand , overexposure of the game seems to be one of the major factors . " The Indian team has been playing cricket non-stop for several months. The World Cup has come close on the heels of the tri-series India played in Australia. The spectator fatigue has to set in somewhere , " Singh added . Amit Sharma , partner of Spartan sports kit manufacturer , however begs to differ , saying the demand is increasing with each passing game . " We stock goods ahead of the games and the sales are good so far. We can not be placing orders throughout the World Cup but there is nothing to worry , " Sharma added . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
