Lessons for India from 1991-92 : Look out for injury , fatigue The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 15 , 2015 , 08.48AM IST The next fortnight is going to be crucial for Dhoni 's men in context of the upcoming World Cup. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : When the Australian continent hosted the World Cup for the first time way back in 1992 , India were the big attraction in the Aussie calendar , being involved in a five-match Test series , a long-winding ODI Tri-series and then the World Cup itself . By accident or design , when Australia is staging the World Cup again after 22 years , it is again an Indian summer Down Under. TOI analyses the fatigue and injury factor this time . During a long tour , fatigue and injuries are big factors , especially when the going gets tough . These are issues the Indian side will have to battle on the remaining part of their tour of Australia as they plunge into the Tri-series next week , after being involved in a taxing four-match Test series , and thereafter the World Cup . Being away from home for months in alien conditions , living out of a suitcase , missing basic Indian food like daal-chawal can take a toll , both physical and mental . When India failed to make the knockouts in the 1992 World Cup , much was made of the fatigue factor , and the fact that the team was into heavy travelling during the gruelling summer months in the Southern Hemisphere . Besides the five Tests ( of which they lost four and drew one at Sydney ) , India were also involved in a long-drawn Tri-series in which each team played the other teams four times each. That worked out to a total of eight league matches. As India made it to the best-of-three finals against Australia , they play two more games , losing both . After such a hectic schedule , which many former players had criticized the BCCI for , most of the players seemed too fagged out during the main course , the World Cup . The Mohammed Azharuddin-led team crashed out at the league stage itself , losing five of their eight games with one washout against Lanka. They managed to defeat only Pakistan and Zimbabwe . How much the hectic schedule going to affect the players this time that only time will tell. The saving grace is that India have played one Test less this time than in 1992 and the Tri-series is mere double leg with just one-game final . At the most , India will be required to play five games , including the final. Besides , World Cup matches are well spaced out. There is a rest of at least five days between the games . India take on Pakistan at Adelaide on February 15 , and play their next game against South Africa at Melbourne on February 22 and their next two games at Perth - against UAE on February 28 and the West Indies on March 6 . They , then , fly out to New Zealand to face Ireland at Hamilton on March 10 and finally Zimbabwe at Auckland on March 14 . Basically , India will play six World Cup league matches stretched over a month. That is a leisurely pace in the context of modern cricket , where in tournaments like IPL , the team is travelling one day and playing the next at the height of Indian summer . The big gaps will give the players sufficient time to rest the aching bodies and also recover from niggles . But for India , it will not just be a physical thing. If they do not live up to their reputation as one of the top ODI teams in the Tri-series , they are bound to suffer mentally. Therefore , besides keeping the players physically fresh , it will be the job of the support staff to keep up the morale of the players , both during the Tri-series and the World Cup . India have had injury issues too. Skipper MS Dhoni was unfit for the first Test. Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Ravindra Jadeja were injured even before the Test series got underway. Replacements flown from India were mere passengers in the team. In fact , as many as 21 players were available during the different stages of the Test series . From the oversized Test team , the selectors have sent back seven players ( KL Rahul , Murali Vijay , Cheteshwar Pujara , Naman Ojha , Varun Aaron , Wriddiman Saha and Karn Sharma ) and added just three pairs of fresh legs for the upcoming matches . They are Stuart Binny , Mohit Sharma and Ambati Rayudu. Then , the fitness of Jadeja and Bhuvneshwar is still under doubt. They were sent home midway through the Test series for rehab. Bhuvi 'recovered ' in time to play the last Test , but was rusty. Jadeja is yet to recover from his injury and how fit he will be only coming days will reveal . Then , there is the case of Dhawal Kulkarni , who was summoned as back-up for Bhuvi but has not played a game yet. Of course , he and Mohit Sharma will return home after the Tri-series even if they perform well , as a team can have only 15 players during the World Cup. They can be included only if someone is genuinely injured , but surely ca n't replace someone who is fatigued or not in form . The next fortnight is going to be crucial for India in context of the upcoming World Cup . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
