Mangalesh S Ads. This is a very recent problem , did not happen before. I 'm being hit with a huge number of Ads , much larger than normal. And the Ads are not relevant either , they are always about Hotstar , and that makes no sense. And also , many of the shows that were available maybe a month ago have just disappeared. Now all that 's left is the very old stuff from very long ago . Balram Singh Quality This app is amazi....but there is few problem too......during your video if u get a call you video will stop n u have 2 start it again and you cant change d video quality..evn u hav high SPD intrnet conection.. . Shardendu Gautam Pretty bad interface There is no easy way to access the show you last watched. No easy way to just go the episode next to the one last watched. Ads run on full screen. Modern Family utilizes something like 40 % percent of the screen. The UI is generally laggy and pretty unintuitive. Bad , bad app. Fortunately , nothing that ca n't be fixed with updates . Ajay Patel Good BUT App is good but there are two problem. First quality of video i.e. tv show , ipl , movies , etc is not as good as ads. If ads can be clear then y not the content ? Some times in between its clear for few seconds and again its worse most of the time. Using uninterrupted 3G speed. Second issue new after upgrade , lots of ads which was not earlier. Reduce ads and improve quality of contents as good as ads. Good bye . User reviews Amit Wadhwani 12 April 2015 Galaxy S3 After updating the app recently , I 'm not able to see any video. Half of the screen is covered with some type of zigzag lines. I 'm using wifi with 4Mbps speed , inspite of that its not viewing the video. Please solve this issue ASAP . Babu pathan 10 April 2015 Lenovo ideatab a2107a-h I ca n't see any video just i saw zigzag lines and when sometimes i can see video it is blue...... Why ? I can see 720p videos on YouTube but i ca n't see in this app Mangalesh S 10 April 2015 Ads. This is a very recent problem , did not happen before. I 'm being hit with a huge number of Ads , much larger than normal. And the Ads are not relevant either , they are always about Hotstar , and that makes no sense. And also , many of the shows that were available maybe a month ago have just disappeared. Now all that 's left is the very old stuff from very long ago . Balram Singh 11 April 2015 Quality This app is amazi....but there is few problem too......during your video if u get a call you video will stop n u have 2 start it again and you cant change d video quality..evn u hav high SPD intrnet conection.. . Shardendu Gautam 10 April 2015 Pretty bad interface There is no easy way to access the show you last watched. No easy way to just go the episode next to the one last watched. Ads run on full screen. Modern Family utilizes something like 40 % percent of the screen. The UI is generally laggy and pretty unintuitive. Bad , bad app. Fortunately , nothing that ca n't be fixed with updates . Ajay Patel 11 April 2015 Good BUT App is good but there are two problem. First quality of video i.e. tv show , ipl , movies , etc is not as good as ads. If ads can be clear then y not the content ? Some times in between its clear for few seconds and again its worse most of the time. Using uninterrupted 3G speed. Second issue new after upgrade , lots of ads which was not earlier. Reduce ads and improve quality of contents as good as ads. Good bye . Yash Gupta 13 April 2015 Nuisance quality Even after using 3G Network internet the qualities of videos and the most important ipl videos are even not meeting quality of mp4. New update doesnt improves any of these bugs.......plz imprve it sometime opensing app is hassale for me some error msg comes and forces to close app...... . Puru Agarwal 11 April 2015 Low quality . Hotstar is an ok app at this moment. Quality is the worst part. Videos and live match quality is very low and the application is closing again and again. It can improve . Anubhav Razdan 12 April 2015 Poor choice. Extremely slow app. Can never find live streams of English Premier League games. Just mountains and mountains of dead cricket games. The app also keeps hanging up randomly . Surya Prakash 12 April 2015 OK but not great Was wondering why there is no Telugu language movies and videos. Also It is bit slow and at time 's missing the clarity. Even for IPL live matches Star sports app is far better than this . Pratik Mandal 11 April 2015 Stop streaming Some time it 's stop working , when I am see some clip it has been stop automatically . Shashank Shekhar 9 April 2015 Samsung GALAXY S4 Excellent App . Full Review Star India Pvt Ltd. 2 February 2015 Hi Shashank , We value your feedback and strive to address our users concerns. We presently have a catalogue that we are working on expanding. We would like to know more of what you thought of the app. Please feel free to write to us at hello @ hotstar.com for anymore suggestions/concerns . Prakash Muthuraj 9 April 2015 Mostly not working Most of the time the videos does n't load at all. Open a video watch an ad and nothing happens , just plain black screen.. . Md Azharuddin 10 April 2015 Not mobile friendly It does provide good features but not mobile friendly. If you run the app for 10 mins your device becomes heated up.. . Kunal Funkee 11 April 2015 Player Only audio is heard no video is being displayed.....instead of video there is a black screen visible..... " using 3G internet " Full Review A Google User 11 April 2015 Avreje I 'm use 2g network score is not clear to watch and video buffer please video quality clear on 2g network fast. . Rakesh V R 10 April 2015 Entertainment on the go. It 's really getting 'solo ' for me. With 3G I have a HD TV with my favourite shows.I 'm truly grateful that IPL2015 has been included. Truly the best ! shaneel shaan 11 April 2015 Not working in Airtel 3G internet When I used Airtel 3G internet the hotstar application is saying an error message ( No valid internet ) . How to solve this issue ? UMESH KARAD 9 April 2015 Awesome Automatically adjust to video quality based on network speed is awesome. Smoothly plays the video. can go through all previous star network videos . satish shrivastava 11 April 2015 Maha ghatiya app hai Ek baar balance batata hai program band hota hai sathi sath apps ko phir se chalu karna padta hai isse ghatiya aaps to koi hai hi nahi mader chodo ne pure net PAC ki Maa chood di par 1 episode bhi poora nahi dekh paya Deepak G Punjabi 12 April 2015 Hi happy that I can see everything in my phone now a daytime anywhere ok daa . Veerabhadraiah as 9 April 2015 Just starts playing live video from random position While watching IPL live , sometimes it gets stuck , starts playing from older timeline not live.. Also starts playing some other video while watching live Nivesh Chauhan 12 April 2015 Slow Good...but consume more dan 1GB3G net and is lagging behind 2-3overs. No live telecast . dvr murthy 10 April 2015 its an excellant app. This is an app which i have seen worth for downloading it.It could stream live videos with a high definition quality . Nilesh jain 10 April 2015 Need to improve So many errors while downloading videos fix it then only 5 * else its just below average Richa Kedia 10 April 2015 Bad app. No setting for selecting video quality...streaming problems , Blurred Videos Vivin john 12 April 2015 Quality problem The video quality is too bad to watch.Can you please tell me how to increase the v video quality ? Kishan Mehta 10 April 2015 It 's really Hot ! ! I am living in a place where Television is treated like God.. ! And this app is totally Useful in a place like this . sachin sharma 11 April 2015 Best video streaming app This is the app everybody should download , one of the applicant finest app I 've ever used. Flawless and fast. I ♥ hotstar. It would be awesome if you guys can list Hollywood movie 's as well. None of the less I watched my first online streaming movie on this app . suresh v 9 April 2015 Search option could have made better There is no autocomplete for the search option.and previous searches can be saved incase of no autocomplete . Deepesh Shah 10 April 2015 Fab Got it ......when we search something no suggestion conmes....but click on search icon and u will get wat u need..... Enjoying IPL now.... Thumbs up Ritwick Bhaduri 12 April 2015 Best app ! ! Must install and use it. I do n't rate for any app but this app is just the perfect app u need ! !  Dheeraj Mohotra 9 April 2015 Good ..clearness Sidhant Chandrashekhar 12 April 2015 Needs a lot of improvement. This app is one of the best apps in recent times with vintage TV shows like Sarabhai vs Sarabhai and Khichdi. But the app has some problems after a video is complete and getting to the next video needs the app to be shut down once ; videos do n't continue after a call has been attended and many times even after a notification is received. The app is extremely slow for a device like Nexus 5. Its a good app overall but needs a lot of bug fixes as mentioned above . Abheet Injaganeri 12 April 2015 No football at all The app does not show all the programs of star network. Especially no football ( only El Clasico , till now , nothing else ) . At least show the matches of following teams ( if not all ) : 1.Fc Barcelona 2. Real Madrid 3. Manchester City 4.Manchester united 5. Chelsea...... Thanking You ( you 'll get a 5 , only then ) Arun Poddar 9 April 2015 good app performance of this app is depend on mobile configuration and as well as the intensity of your net connection . irfan sk 12 April 2015 It 's not working I download hot star recently but my motorola xt 912 not supported , audio coming video not coming please help me.. ? Utkarsh Chaubey 12 April 2015 App does n't handle irruptions... This app does n't handle any irruption like receiving calls etc. And pls add " Pyaar kii ye ek kahaani " ( star one ) in TV serial... I 'm a big fan of that TV serial manish jain 12 April 2015 Barclays premier league Wo n't give 5 until there is no football streaming Sales Excursionholidays 13 April 2015 Data Consuption Ratio is VVV High Please solve this issue ASAP... either all areas is awesome... $ $ $
