Lokesh Rahul rides spidercam luck with gritty ton The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jan 8 , 2015 , 11.30AM IST Lokesh Rahul celebrates after reaching his maiden century during the third day 's play in the fourth and final Test against Australia at the Sydney Cricket Ground. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Lokesh Rahul scored an eventful century to lead an Indian fightback with skipper Virat Kohli on the third day of the final Test against Australia on Thursday . READ ALSO : Kohli 2nd Indian to score 500 in Test series in Australia Rahul -- playing in only his second Test -- rode his luck including some help from spidercam , to raise his maiden ton against a persistent Australian bowling attack on a lifeless Sydney Cricket Ground pitch . India went to tea at 234 for two with Rahul unbeaten on 106 and Kohli passing fifty for the fifth time in the series on 67 to trail Australia by 338 runs . READ ALSO : Bhuvneshwar 's selection raises questions Rahul gave chances on 41 , 42 and 46 but the final chance was the major talking point of the day with Australia skipper Steve Smith appearing to blame the spidercam camera hovering above the ground for putting down the skied catch . Australia 's captain Steven Smith reacts after dropping a catch of Lokesh Rahul during the third day 's play in the fourth and final Test at the Sydney Cricket Ground. ( Reuters Photo ) Smith was seen to mouth " fucking wire " to team-mates , suggesting he might have been distracted by the cables connecting television 's spidercam in losing the trajectory of the ball . Cricket Australia and the Nine Network later confirmed in a joint statement that Smith had been " distracted by one of the wires in his eyeline " . Smith 's woes were compounded nearing tea when he could not take a two-handed chance over his head from Kohli , who on 59 , at second slip off Mitchell Starc . India dug in on the third day and 163 runs came off 60 overs for the loss of Rohit Sharma 's wicket . Rahul was fortunate to still be at the crease when he charged down the pitch for a run and was sent back by Kohli only to tumble to the ground and lose his bat . Yet he still managed to scramble home and beat Brad Haddin 's delayed throw to the non-striker 's end . Skipper Smith stood glaring at Haddin with his arms outstretched at the botched chance as India had a big let-off . But it was Smith who was at fault twice after , putting down Rahul three overs before lunch when spidercam inadvertently intervened and then Kohli in the next session . Rahul survived another scare earlier in the morning session when the Australians appealed for a catch by Joe Burns at bat-pad off spinner Lyon but umpire Richard Kettleborough was unmoved . Infrared TV replays showed the ball may have brushed a glove and off the thigh guard to Burns . Sharma was out attempting to sweep Lyon only to get a bottom edge on to his stumps for 53 off 133 balls , ending a stubborn 97-run partnership with Rahul . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
