Madhav Mantri , Indian cricket 's grand old man , passes away at 92 The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | May 24 , 2014 , 09.26AM IST Madhav Mantri ( 1921-2014 ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : A glorious innings has concluded. Madhav Mantri , India 's oldest-living Test cricketer till Friday morning , died after a heart attack at a private hospital. He was 92 . Mantri , who remained a bachelor till the end , was a massive pillar of Mumbai and Indian cricket. He was the man who introduced a certain Sunil Gavaskar , his nephew , to the game . A wicketkeeper-batsman , Mantri only played four Tests for India in the 1950s , and was one of the batsmen dismissed for a duck during a fiery spell by Fred Trueman as England reduced India to zero for four during the Leeds Test in 1952 . He was much more successful at the domestic level , captaining Bombay to three Ranji titles , and scored 2976 runs at an average of 53.14 , besides taking 69 catches and 23 stumpings . He was admitted to the hospital after the first attack on May 1 . Mantri was a national selector from 1964 to 1968 and the Mumbai Cricket Association ( MCA ) president from 1988 to 1992 -the only time a former cricketer held that position. He was also manager of the Indian team on the England tour in 1990 , and was a BCCI treasurer between 1990 and 1992 . Leading the tributes for 'Nana Mama, ' as Mumbai 's cricketers would fondly call him , was Gavaskar , currently BCCI 's IPL president . " I never knew this day would come. The way he lived his life , I thought he was indestructible. He was the last of the disciplinarians. Even his last rites started at exactly the perfect time ! Everyone at Hindu Colony in Shivaji Park knew he would leave for office at 8.30 am , would cross the 'first lane ' there at 8.35 am , and reach Dadar station at 8.40 am , " Gavaskar recalled . Reminiscing how his maternal uncle inspired him to play for India , the legendary opener said : " I learnt my first 'lesson ' in his house. He used to have lots of caps and sweaters , so I asked for an India cap one day. 'You will have to work hard and earn this cap , he said. When I asked for the sweater , he said the same thing. Before my first tour ( to the West Indies ) , I got a cap and a sweater from the BCCI. However , I did n't wear them in the tour games , but only in my first Test , because he told me you have to earn it. " Gavaskar also credited his uncle for making him realise the importance of not throwing his wicket away . " I had scored around 280-290 in a college cricket game , and had a 400-run partnership with Ramesh Nagdev. However , when I told him that I was out after playing a lofted shot to the deep mid wicket boundary , he asked me : 'How much did your partner score ? ' 'He is batting on 300 , I replied. 'Then why did you get out ? He asked again , before saying : 'Never give your wicket to a bowler like that. He is n't giving you full tosses or half volleys. So why are you doing a favour to him ? Let the bowler earn your wicket , " he said . Gavaskar also clarified about the 'legend ' that it was n't Mantri , but another uncle of his , Narayan Surekar , who identified him in time after he accidentally landed up with a fisherwoman in the hospital where he was born . " There is a little hole in my ear , which was missing when this uncle visited my mother in the hospital. They looked around anxiously , before my uncle spotted me with a fisherwoman . " This is why I keep joking that my habit of fishing outside the off-stump comes from there ! " he remembered . Former India skipper Ajit Wadekar revealed that he owed his career to Mantri . " I got into the Indian team because of him. All the selectors , except 'Nana Mama ' were against my inclusion. He convinced ( Tiger ) Pataudi about me , subsequently , I was there. Even in college , I was the 12th man in the team , before he included me in the XI , since he was the coach , " said an emotional Wadekar , who won praise from Mantri despite the former belonging to Shivaji Park Gymkhana , a bitter rival of another local club from the famed Shivaji Park area , Dadar Union , which Mantri represented . It was at Mantri 's insistence that former India skipper Dilip Vengsarkar had refurbished the Dadar Union Club some time back . Vengsarkar too had played for the club , whose building was in a dilapidated state at that point. " He would come to watch every match , at every level. Because he had been a cricketer himself , he was an outstanding administrator. He helped the Mumbai cricketers immensely , " felt Vengsarkar . " Very few people know that he was tough from outside , but soft from inside. Just a few days back , I watched the Mumbai-Maharashtra Ranji quarters with him. Cricket will miss him , " said former India batsman and current chief selector Sandeep Patil . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
