Mahendra Singh Dhoni at the crossroads The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 28 , 2015 , 08.45AM IST MS Dhoni 's fate as ODI captain will depend on India 's fate in the World Cup. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : He seemed invincible just a few months ago. But things are getting tougher for 'Captain Cool ' Mahendra Singh Dhoni as he paddles a rocking Indian boat through some very choppy waters in Australia. When he was captain in all formats , Dhoni had complete control over the Indian team. For a long while , he was the man with the golden touch. But as India began to lose matches , especially in overseas Test matches , Dhoni 's position became shaky . The last straw was when Virat Kohli captained India to victory in the ODI series at home against Sri Lanka in Dhoni 's absence. And when the current tour began , Kohli was again at the helm as Dhoni was unfit. Despite losing the first Test in Adelaide , Kohli impressed critics by the way he led . The emergence of Kohli as leader and a split in the Test and ODI captaincy has led to two power centres within the team . It is quite ironic that Dhoni had total control of the team when the Indian lineup was studded with stars like Sachin Tendulkar , Rahul Dravid , VVS Laxman , and Sourav Ganguly , down to Virender Sehwag , Gautam Gambhir and Zaheer Khan. They had all built their name and reputation by the time Dhoni took over and never felt threatened by his growing image. They were more than willing to let him have his way . Without doubt the blessings of Tendulkar and the backing of the BCCI top brass made Dhoni 's life at the helm easier. Under him , the Indian team started delivering spectacular results. The achievements were numerous - the No. 1 rank in Tests and ODIs ; World Cup and Champions Trophy champs . After the retirement of some legends and the emergence of the younger lot , one would have imagined that Dhoni would have had a greater hold on the team. But things are slipping out of his grasp , slowly but surely . Kohli 's bold and brash attitude is a contrast to Dhoni 's calm image. With a young , inexperienced team under his belt , Dhoni is fast losing his magic touch. And with Kohli wearing his aggressive attitude on his sleeve , he is seen as the best guy to replace Dhoni in all formats . The transition has already happened in Test cricket , and Dhoni 's fate as ODI captain will depend on India 's fate in the World Cup . Many cricket experts have wondered why Dhoni chose to retire totally from Tests when he was still the best bet as wicketkeeper-batsman even in the longer format of the game. Was it that he was too fatigued , having to be away from home for long stretches for time and living out of a suitcase for a better part of the year ? Or was he unwilling to play under a captain junior to him ? Dhoni surely had the option of quitting Test captaincy and continuing as a player. But the type of persona he has built over a period of time , he is probably not in a mental state to play cricket under a junior cricketer. Sunil Gavaskar was once famously quoted as saying that he was willing to play even under Maninder Singh , at a time when there was a similar dual power structure with Kapil Dev and he at the helm by rotation. But Dhoni is no Sunny . Tendulkar willingly gave up captaincy and concentrated on getting runs by the ton for his team. Ganguly and Dravid played under each other without egos being bruised. But Dhoni seems different . The journalists here keep hounding Dhoni with questions on whether the World Cup is going to be his swansong. He merely says : " My retirement ( from Test cricket ) has really excited you guys. " His curt reply gives no indication about his future . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
