Mahendra Singh Dhoni retires from Test cricket The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Dec 30 , 2014 , 02.39PM IST India 's captain MS Dhoni shakes hands with Australia 's Chris Rogers at the end of the final day of their third Test in Melbourne. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE/MUMBAI : Mahendra Singh Dhoni on Tuesday surprised the cricket world with his sudden announcement of immediate retirement from Test cricket , making way for Virat Kohli to don the mantle of captaincy . READ ALSO : End of Dhoni 's roller-coaster ride as Test captain Announcement of Dhoni 's retirement after the wicketkeeper-batsman had played in 90 Test matches , 60 of them as captain , was made immediately after India lost the current Test series to Australia following a drawn third Test here . " One of India 's greatest Test Captains under whose leadership India became the No. 1 team in the Test Rankings MS Dhoni , has decided to retire from Test Cricket citing the strain of playing all formats of Cricket , " the BCCI said in a statement . READ ALSO : Dhoni 's decision comes as a huge surprise : Gavaskar " MS Dhoni has chosen to retire from Test Cricket with immediate effect in order to concentrate on ODI and T20 formats. BCCI while respecting the decision of M S Dhoni to retire from Test Cricket , wishes to thank him for his enormous contribution to Test Cricket and the laurels that he has brought to India , " it added . well done on a wonderful career in test cricket @ msdhoni . Always enjoyed playing together. Next target 2015 WC my friend ! ! — sachin tendulkar ( @ sachin_rt ) December 30 , 2014 India , trailing 0-2 in the four-match series after today 's draw , would be led by the 26-year-old Kohli in the fourth and final match in Sydney. Kohli has been India 's standout performer with the bat in the ongoing series , having scored three hundreds so far . " Virat Kohli will be the captain of the Indian Team for the Fourth and Final Test against Australia to be played in Sydney from the 6th of January 2015 , " the BCCI stated . MS Dhoni stretches out to play a sweep against Australia during the third Test in Melbourne. ( AP Photo ) The 33-year-old Dhoni , however , did not speak about his retirement at the post-match press conference or at the presentation ceremony. The announcement was made through a BCCI press release . The BCCI statement was a bolt from the blue as Dhoni , despite his poor overseas track record as captain , had not given any indication that he would step down in the near future . Dhoni 's captaincy record since June 2011 Opponents
