Mahendra Singh Dhoni : The cool finisher The author has posted comments on this article Sreemoy Talukdar , TNN | Jan 31 , 2015 , 08.39AM IST Dhoni knows he will become a hero forever if he guides India to another World Cup triumph. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 As the ball soared into the starlit sky , an eerie silence descended over the ecstatic Wankhede Stadium ; Mahendra Singh Dhoni simply followed its rising trajectory , almost bereft of emotion , until the entire country erupted in joy . Only when Yuvraj Singh came dashing into his arms , the India captain broke into a sheepish grin ; as stoically , he turned towards the stumps and picked up one before being whisked away on shoulders by his delirious teammates . Appropriately , it was the helicopter shot - the shot that defines his character and his unorthodoxy - that helped India win back the World Cup after 28 long years . For a long time , the same sangfroid was the hallmark of his game and his personality : he was hailed as ice cold during high-pressure moments ; no nerves , some proclaimed , as he orchestrated big chases ; captain cool , others said , as he led the side in his own unpredictable manner . In many ways , Dhoni has surpassed the skill at his command as a batsman ; in many ways , he has also scripted victories that look impossible in hindsight : the World T20 title on his debut as captain , the No. 1 Test ranking for 18 months , the Champions Trophy and , of course , the much coveted World Cup . He could n't have asked for more. Especially as , at one point , it looked like he was destined to live as a railway collector ; or maybe , even go back to the backwoods of Jharkhand and lead an obscure , anonymous life. But then , everything was poised to change as he began hitting those big sixes , playing in the industrial town of Kharagpur in Bengal . Born in Ranchi , in July 1981 , little Dhoni began to idolise the three legends of that time : Sachin Tendulkar , Amitabh Bachchan and Lata Mangeshkar ; he was good at badminton and football but his coach , impressed by his goalkeeping skills , sent him to play cricket . He worked his way up , playing all age-group tournaments as a wicketkeeper who could bat a bit ; as an 18-year-old , he made his debut for Bihar in the Ranji Trophy. Folklore has it that in his off time , he whizzed around on a second-hand bike , worth all of Rs 4500 , while he played tennis-ball cricket . Yet , Dhoni remained under the radar till he was picked for the India 'A ' side in 2004 as selectors looked beyond the traditional cricket pockets for talent ; he promptly slammed two centuries in the One-day triangular series in Nairobi to showcase himself ; with flowing hair , a fearless attitude and a wider smile , he compelled attention . Two spectacular knocks for Team India -148 vs Pakistan in Vizag and 183 vs Sri Lanka in Jaipur ensured that he emerged as the rock star of the game . His technique was flawed , both , in front and behind the wickets , but he turned that into his strength . As he became larger than life , the pressure however slowly got to him ; he turned aloof and reclusive as a person , cautious and careful as a captain and a lot more circumspect as a batsman. His reputation as the ultimate finisher , however , remained undiminished . He became an unstoppable force after joining Chennai Super Kings , rising to become the most powerful cricketer in the country. The first chinks , however , began to surface in Test cricket , as India failed to cope with its demands and rigours. As the team itself underwent a generational change , he became fallible . In a surprising move , he even gave up the Test captaincy. Of course , like everything he does , there was a plan behind it : the World Cup. Dhoni knows he will become a hero forever if he guides India to another triumph. However , it may not be a fairy-tale ending . India have been struggling in Australia , failing to even make the finals of the tri-series ; the batting does n't look solid and the bowling does n't instil confidence. He will have to do something really special to lift the side from here . It 's possible only if he leads from the front , batting like only he can. One good knock , up the order , can infuse life into this side and make it look totally different. If anybody can do it , Dhoni can . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
