Mahendra Singh Dhoni - The inscrutable skipper The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Jan 2 , 2015 , 10.26AM IST Dhoni 's fortunes as captain started plummeting the moment Kirsten left. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : It was in Colombo way back in 2010 that an emphatic stamp of approval emerged for Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's captaincy. VVS Laxman had just scored a match-winning , unbeaten 103 at the P Sara Oval as India chased down 257 for a series-levelling win. " It 's the best dressing room that I 've been part of , " Laxman declared immediately after the win. " The atmosphere is great and I 've really enjoyed being there in the last two years or so. It 's like a family , with everybody caring for each other. We enjoy each other 's success , which is important. " Asked who or what had made the biggest difference in the dressing room , Laxman was unequivocal. " MS is calm and handles success and failure equally. Everybody in the team is a star and everybody has a role. It 's a much more relaxed dressing room. There 's calmness , with no unnecessary tension. That 's the hallmark of a good team. " Those were the days when Gary Kirsten , appointed in March 2008 , and Dhoni were forging an unassailable combine. Dhoni had won five series in succession , one of them in New Zealand. He had become the only Indian player to win his first four Tests as captain , and eight of his first 11 , drawing the others. Kirsten came in midway and soothed the hurt of the grating Greg Chappell era . India were unbeatable at home and a very strong side when touring , with the three stalwarts - Tendulkar , Laxman , Dravid - still having big runs to contribute. It all led up to the World Cup win as Yuvraj Singh and Gautam Gambhir came to the party . Dhoni 's fortunes as captain started plummeting the moment Kirsten left and the Tendulkars and Laxmans struggled to perform away from home. India 's much touted middle generation - the Sehwags , Zaheers and Harbhajans - fell away in rapid succession . India lost 15 of their next 22 Tests abroad following the World Cup win , and won only two , at Kingston and Lord 's. With decay and dissolution all around him , Dhoni 's strengths as a unifier of big egos ceased to matter. It was a time to lead from the front and it was here that he faltered . Dhoni spent the past four years periodically parrying questions about his Test form and captaincy. He simultaneously shrugged off questions about hastening the retirements of some seniors. He often came across as an Indian cricket board ( BCCI ) lackey , sometimes comically so . Sometimes , the carefully cultivated mask fell off. In August last year , after the 1-3 loss to England , he appeared exasperated by the constant carping. " You will have to wait and watch if I am strong enough to cope with this loss or not , " he snapped back . Asked if he had contributed enough as captain , he said " Maybe , yes. " In September , Mike Brearley , one of cricket 's most iconic captains , said Dhoni 's captaincy was below-par. In Melbourne in the current series , Ian Chappell labelled his captaincy " the worst I have seen in Test cricket " . Martin Crowe called his field placements " illogical " . Dhoni continued to be silent and inscrutable , only occasionally offering tiny glimpses of his methods. " The way I play , my subconscious mind works more than my conscious mind , " he told the BCCI 's official website. " Although I am leading a young team , I do n't like to give a plan that the bowler is not comfortable implementing.If I give them a plan , they will keep bowling in the same way without thinking. Tomorrow when they 're on their own , they wo n't know what to do. " Was Dhoni clearing the decks for his resignation ? Or was he admitting he was n't tactically up to scratch for Test cricket anymore ? He told Mark Nicholas a few months back that he " believed in the process more than the result " , adding : " My job is to get the team right and then move away. I do n't believe in deserting when the chips are down. " Dhoni quits at a time the administration of cricket in India is in deep unrest , but the game looks to be in better hands. Perhaps he knows that when it comes to eagerness and preparation , the Virat Kohli-led team will not falter. Ironically for a man lauded for his ability to carry everybody along , Dhoni ended it all by declaring that there was " unrest " in the dressing room too. Laxman , for one , would have been perplexed . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
