Manish Pandey makes it to T20 squad The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Oct 15 , 2014 , 10.33AM IST Pandey , the first Indian batsman to score a ton in the IPL back in 2009 , was selected for the T20 team , which will take on the Windies in Cuttack on October 22. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Off-spinner R Ashwin continued to be mysteriously 'rested ' , while Karnataka batsman Manish Pandey earned his maiden India call-up , as the national selectors named squads for the remaining two ODIs , oneoff Twenty20 tie and the Board Presidents ' XI , which will play a three-day practice game against the West Indies , here on Tuesday . Pandey , the first Indian batsman to score a ton in the IPL back in 2009 , was selected for the T20 team , which will take on the Windies in Cuttack on October 22 , largely on the basis of his solid performances for the Kolkata Knight Riders . The 25-year-old from Karnataka scored 401 runs at a strike rate of 117.94 in this year 's IPL , and 172 runs in five games @ SR of 140.98 in the recently held CLT20 . The 25-year-old replaced Ambati Rayudu , who can consider himself unlucky , first for being denied the strike in the last T20 game against England ( courtesy skipper MS Dhoni ) , and now a berth in the team . The captain , on the road for quite a while now , has chosen against resting for now , and will feature in all the limited overs games against the West Indies. Possibly the situation of the ODI series - locked 1-1 at this stage , has prompted Dhoni to postpone a much-needed 'break.' Meanwhile , Gujarat and Kings XI Punjab left-arm spinner Akshar Patel staged a return to the India side as he was added as the 15th member of an otherwise unchanged ODI squad. Patel , who played three games against Bangladesh in June , returned after a strong show in CLT20 , where he took eight wickets in five games . The ODI squad , in fact , now includes four spinners , which clearly shows India 's intent in exploiting the visitors ' weakness against spin . Left-arm 'chinaman ' bowler Kuldeep Yadav has been in cluded in the BP XI team as well , which reflects the selectors ' desire to try him out as soon as they can. Patel finds himself in the T20 side too , where he has replaced Mumbai seamer Dhawal Kulkarni , who has been excluded without reason . The five 'wise men ' , meanwhile , seem to be in a mood to throw life line to the Test career of left-hander Suresh Raina , who has been in sparkling form of late . Raina has been named as the skipper of the BP XI team , which will play the West Indies in a warm-up game in Kanpur from October 25 . That match will also see the re turn to action of Mumbai batsman Rohit Sharma , who has n't played since suffering a finger injury during the first ODI against England in Cardiff on August 27 . Curiously , Pandey 's KKR and Karnataka teammate Robin Uthappa has been ignored for all the three squads despite consistent performances . The 28-year-old opener won the 'Purple Cap ' for being the top-scorer in the IPL this time , scoring 660 runs @ strike rate of 137.78 , and followed that up by rustling up 210 runs @ 131.25 in five games in CLT20 . Kerala and Rajasthan Royals ' talented youngster Sanju Samson , meanwhile , can hope for an India debut , after being named in the T20 squad . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
