Man United 's revenue falls for second quarter The author has posted comments on this article Kounteya Sinha , TNN | Feb 12 , 2015 , 08.47PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MANCHESTER : Manchester United 's revenue has fallen by 14 % for the second quarter of their financial year as a result of being absent from the Champions League . The Old Trafford club lost out on payments from Nike for failing to qualify for the UEFA Champions League and said on Thursday that its revenue fell to £ 194.4 million for the six months to the end of December . United 's executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward said the club was well-placed to make it back into the Champions League next season . Woodward said " the recently announced Premier League broadcasting rights package for 2017-19 , representing an increase just over 70 % once again demonstrates that we are part of the top football league in the world. Notwithstanding no European football this season , our revenues remain strong and demonstrate the underlying strength of our business model , with commercial revenues up year over year. On the pitch , the team is well positioned to challenge for a top four finish in the Premier League and we look forward to the rest of the season " . Man United announced its financial results for the 2015 fiscal second quarter on Thursday. It said that commercial revenues of £ 46.4 million is up by 9.7 % for the quarter , thanks to the two sponsorship deals announced in the quarter - Chi as official soft drinks partner in Nigeria and IVC ( Aland ) , the club 's first wellness partner in China . " Commercial revenue for the second quarter was £ 46.4 million , an increase of £ 4.1 million , or 9.7 % , over the prior year quarter. Sponsorship revenue for the second quarter was £ 35.8 million , an increase of £ 6.8 million , or 23.4 % , over the prior year quarter , primarily due to an increase in shirt and other sponsorships. Retail , Merchandising , Apparel & Product Licensing revenue for the second quarter was £ 7.9 million , a decrease of £ 1.2 million , or 13.2 % over the prior year quarter , primarily due to reduced Nike guaranteed revenue due to non-participation in the UEFA Champions League in the current season . Mobile & Content revenue for the second quarter was £ 2.7 million , a decrease of £ 1.5 million , or 35.7 % over the prior year quarter , due to the expiration of a few of our mobile partnerships " . Broadcasting revenue for the second quarter was £ 28.4 million , a decrease of £ 18.5 million , or 39.4 % , over the prior year quarter , primarily due to non-participation in the UEFA Champions League in the current season . Matchday revenue too saw a slump for the second quarter - £ 30.9 million , a decrease of £ 2.8 million , or 8.3 % , over the prior year quarter , primarily due to no home domestic cup nor UEFA Champions League matches in the current quarter . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
