Many bowlers have suspect action : ICC body The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Jun 7 , 2014 , 09.41AM IST The committee , chaired by Anil Kumble , felt the measures implemented to curb illegal bowling actions have been ineffective. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BANGALORE : The need to implement stringent measures to control illegal bowling actions and players misconduct , wider use of technology in umpiring and steps to achieve balance between batting and bowling were the key subjects discussed during the two-day ICC Cricket Committee meeting in Bangalore . The recommendations arising from the discussions will be forwarded to the ICC Annual Conference which will take place in Melbourne from June 23-28 . The committee , chaired by former India skipper Anil Kumble , felt the measures implemented to curb illegal bowling actions have been ineffective . " The committee believed that there are a number of bowlers currently employing suspect actions in international cricket , and that the ICC 's reporting and testing procedures are not adequately scrutinizing these bowlers , " ICC said in a statement . The committee recommended that changes be considered to encourage umpires and referees to identify suspect bowlers with greater confidence . Until now the players had to travel to University of Western Australia in Perth to undergo testing. However ICC said facilities in India , Australia , England and South Africa will be accredited over coming months . Shri Ramachandra Medical University in Chennai , which will be the BCCI-National Cricket Academy 's new rehabilitation centre , is likely to be the India 's testing facility . The committee proposed wider use of Officiating Replay System " The committee was very positive about the Officiating Replay System ( ORS ) used during the latter stages of the World T20 in Bangladesh , which consists of a dedicated screen and an operator who sits in the TV umpire 's room and provides the TV umpire with instant replays from any angle. This system can be used in either DRS or non-DRS matches , and can help umpires make accurate decisions , " ICC said . ICC said Decision Review System 's correct decision rate has increased by 4.4 % during the season. The committee also expressed its concern over the number of reports made under the Code of Conduct during 2013-14 . " There was particular concern about the number of reports laid for inappropriate contact between players , as many of these instances had the potential to escalate and create an ugly confrontation. " On imbalances between bat and ball caused due to the introduction of thicker bats and shorter boundaries , ICC noted. " There has been a sharp increase in the number of sixes hit in ODI cricket over the past 6 months. The MCC reported on some of its research into developments in cricket bat design , and particularly the improved performance of today 's thicker bats. The committee will be keeping a close watch on the performance of cricket bats moving forward. The committee was of the strong view that venues must be set-up to their maximum boundary size of 90 yards from the centre of the pitch , " it said . On introduction of Day-Night Test cricket , the ICC said : " The committee was encouraged by the recent interest shown by a number of countries in playing day-night Test matches , and believed that the playing conditions should still provide the opportunity for Boards to schedule a day-night Test match if both countries agree. " Another issue on the agenda was of Mankading. Recently at the Edgbaston , Sri Lankan spinner Sachitra Senanayake ran England 's Jos Buttler out at the non-striker 's end after warning him for taking a head start . " The Cricket Committee believes that a non-striker should be deterred from leaving his or her crease before the bowler normally delivers the ball. It did not support a formal warning being introduced prior to a bowler being eligible to run out a non-striker , but it did support the view expressed by some captains that the umpires should n't ask the captain whether he wanted the appeal to stand before making a final decision , " the statement said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
