Masakadza ton leads Zimbabwe to upset of Sri Lanka The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Feb 11 , 2015 , 12.03PM IST Masakadza , who finished 117 not out , shared an unbroken fourth wicket partnership of 119 with Sean Williams ( 51 ) to chase down the target of 280 and claim a morale-boosting victory Page 1 of 4 WELLINGTON : Hamilton Masakadza scored a run-a-ball century as Zimbabwe stunned Sri Lanka with a comprehensive seven-wicket victory in a World Cup warm-up at Bert Sutcliffe Oval on Wednesday . It was a second defeat in warm-up matches for the Sri Lankans , who reached the final of the last two World Cups and arrived Down Under with hopes of a second title to go with their 1996 triumph . Masakadza , who finished 117 not out , shared an unbroken fourth wicket partnership of 119 with Sean Williams ( 51 ) to chase down the target of 280 and claim a morale-boosting victory in the university town of Lincoln , southwest of Christchurch . All rounder Masakadza has been playing international cricket for 14 years but has never before represented his country at a World Cup with injury and loss of form ruling him out of previous tournaments . On Wednesday , though , he showed he was in fine form for his maiden campaign when he outshone Sri Lankan batting stalwarts Kumar Sangakkara and Mahela Jayawardene with his biggest score outside Zimbabwe . The 31-year-old reached the milestone with a single off spinner Rangana Herath in the 41st over of the innings before ushering his country to victory with just under five overs to spare . Masakadza hit his 117 off 119 balls with eight fours and three sixes but it was Williams who scored the winning runs with the four , his seventh , that brought up his half century . Sri Lanka won the toss and elected to bat but while plenty of their batsmen got starts , only Dimuth Karunaratne ( 58 ) and all rounder Jeevan Mendis ( 51 ) managing to get to the half century mark and 279 for six was not an imposing score . Left-arm spinner Williams ( 3-35 ) was the pick of the nine bowlers used by Zimbabwe , who open the tournament proper against neighbours South Africa in Hamilton on Sunday . Sri Lanka will have to pick themselves up for a meeting with co-hosts New Zealand in Christchurch on Saturday in the opening match of the tournament . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
