Mastering the breeze can be tricky at MCG The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Dec 25 , 2014 , 10.44AM IST Indian captain MS Dhoni speaks with team manager Ravi Shastri during training at the Melbourne Cricket Ground ( MCG ) . ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Any unwary visiting team member is warned of two things before stepping into the Boxing Day Test at the MCG : the bounce in the pitch and the crowd in the stands. While both can be intimidating , curator David Sandursky believes the biggest challenge for teams here is to understand and master the flow of the breeze. Like the Wanderers in Johannesburg , the MCG has a " bullring " , boxed-in feel to it. While that does not hamper swing , knowing the direction of the breeze can be a tricky affair . " The breeze ends up being pretty opposite to what it actually is , " Sandursky told TOI on Wednesday. " The wind comes from outside the stadium and hits the scoreboard on the right and rebounds. It can be pretty weird. It bounces off the stands and comes back too. " There 's a simple trick to knowing the direction of the breeze , though. " Watch the flags on the top of the stands , " says Sandursky. " Whichever way they 're moving , your breeze in the middle is in the opposite direction. " While that 's food for thought for visiting captains , India will also be wary of the bounce , though their batsmen mastered the conditions at the Gabba quite well on the first day. " The bounce is not as steep as the Gabba , but I would say we 're second , " said Sandursky , " The bounce is not spongy like it used to be. I like to have a pitch where if you win the toss or lose the toss , you do n't believe the game 's over. This is a new pitch , one which I 've been working on for three years , and a virgin strip. " Interestingly , Nathan Lyon took five wickets here last year in the second innings of the Boxing Day Ashes Test , bagging 550 and getting rid of Pietersen , Bell and Stokes. Do India need to be wary of the off-spinner a second time ? " No , " said Sandursky. " Lyon took five wickets so it can turn but the pitch is not necessarily known as a big turner. " Back on India 's 2007-08 tour , Sachin Tendulkar had said the MCG pitch " is slower and has less bounce " than other Aussie tracks . Two of Indian cricket 's all-time highs have come at the MCG : They won by 222 runs as Chandrashekhar ran riot with 12 wickets in the match in 1977 and Gavaskar scored a second-innings century , while Kapil Dev and Viswanath starred in the 59run win in 1981 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
