Match-fixing claims 'absurd , bizarre , scary ' , says Cairns The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | May 30 , 2014 , 01.42PM IST " I have never match-fixed , sought to have others match-fix , or otherwise play the game of cricket in anything other than the spirit it so richly deserves to be played in , " Cairns said. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 WELLINGTON : Former New Zealand cricketer Chris Cairns reiterated on Friday he was innocent of any involvement in match-fixing and described the accusations against him as " absurd , bizarre and scary " . Cairns read out a statement at Auckland airport after returning from London , where he was interviewed at his own request by London police , English cricketing authorities and the anti-corruption unit of cricket 's world governing body , the ICC . " I have never match-fixed , sought to have others match-fix , or otherwise play the game of cricket in anything other than the spirit it so richly deserves to be played in , " he said . " Knowing what I now know of these allegations against me , I find the situation truly absurd , bizarre and scary . " I now wait to see what happens next. Whatever happens , I am hopeful that proper process will be followed and that I will be cleared of these allegations. " The 43-year-old said former New Zealand cricketer Lou Vincent , who has admitted corruption and is assisting the ICC probe , had " betrayed " his friendship and the allegations he and his ex-wife had made against Cairns were " despicable lies " . He also hit out at New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum , saying it was " misleading " to say he had reported an alleged approach by Cairns about match-fixing in a " timely fashion " given he made the allegation in 2011 , three years after it was supposed to have taken place . McCullum 's evidence to the ICC 's Anti-Corruption Security Unit ( ACSU ) , where he described being twice approached by a " Player X " , was leaked to a British newspaper earlier this month . Cairns later said he thought he was " Player X " but completely denied the allegations . The ICC has said that McCullum is not under investigation for match-fixing and has commended his conduct in coming forward to give the evidence . Cairns also said none of the three cricketers who were allegedly told by McCullum of the approach - Stephen Fleming , Daniel Vettori and Kyle Mills - had made " a direct accusation " against him . The involvement of London police results from a 2012 libel trial in the British High Court , when Cairns won damages from Indian cricket administrator Lalit Modi over accusations of corruption . Cairns said that after his London trip he was confident there were no allegations that he had " received any monies for my alleged activities , nor paid any monies to any person " . " Over the last few years I have felt the influence of nameless , faceless people casting aspersions about me through the world of cricket and perhaps beyond , " he added . " I have a small team of people in my corner who have believed in me throughout and are helping me now . " I have said that there are dark forces at play here. The just concluded trip to England has not persuaded me to think any differently. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
