McCullum & Co. want 'big fairytale finish ' for Vettori The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 29 , 2015 , 08.19AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Michael Clarke 's walk into ODI sunset was clearly the talk of the town. But there 's another player who will play his last international game on Sunday and holds the key to his team 's chances in the final . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Daniel Vettori , who started off as a baby-faced teenager 18 years ago , will be in charge of the New Zealand spin attack at the MCG for one last time. He is playing through pain , has got 18 wickets in the tournament so far at an unbelievable economy rate of 3.98 and those who believe New Zealand have a chance in this final , insist it has a lot to do with Vettori . The veteran left-arm spinner got a couple of wickets in Auckland when New Zealand beat Australia in the group game , and that 's where the game turned around for the hosts . On Sunday , Vettori is likely to be the only specialist spinner in the mix of 22 who will play. While some of the Kiwis have never played at MCG , Vettori knows how to do well inside the cauldron. His clever variations might just act as the speed-breaker when the Aussies would be looking to accelerate in the middle overs. " He 's been instrumental in us getting to this point in the tournament , and it 's no surprise to me that he has been able to play in every game. He had this vision of making an impact on the game and here he is , " Brendon McCullum , the New Zealand captain , said . McCullum has thrown the ball to Vettori even in the Powerplay and the left-arm spinner has delivered more often than not. It was all about his preparation ahead of the World Cup , and to think that not too long back he had almost quit . Even in the semifinal run-fest , McCullum banked on Vettori to go through his nine overs at a time when South Africa were looking to cut loose . " He has worked so hard to come back and has given half his life to this game. Vettori has been an outstanding teammate and a very close friend as well , " McCullum said , explaining the left-armer 's influence . Vettori 's batting hardly ever gets noticed , but he was the man unbeaten in three games when things got tight for New Zealand. It 's not always the number of runs that he scores , but the calmness that he brings to the proceedings when things get tight. " It 's about the guy 's character , a great bloke and certainly a strong leader in the group , " McCullum said . The World Cup is the biggest prize that a player can aspire for and the skipper hopes the team can give Vettori the perfect farewell gift. " Hopefully we 've got one more big fairytale finish for him , " McCullum said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
