McCullum , Vettori key to New Zealand juggernaut , says Anderson The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 14 , 2015 , 02.19PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : Brendon McCullum 's leadership and the canny skills of Daniel Vettori were credited with driving the New Zealand juggernaut to a huge win in their opening World Cup match against Sri Lanka . Kiwi all-rounder Corey Anderson was named man of the match for his 75 and two for 18 double in New Zealand 's 98-run win , but the 24-year-old passed the credit to the two veterans in the side . McCullum , he said , erased any nerves in the side when he blasted a rapid 65 in a quickfire 111-run opening partnership with Martin Guptill to set up New Zealand 's impressive 331-6 in their 50 overs . Vettori then snared the key wickets of Tillakaratne Dilshan and Mahela Jaywardene as New Zealand rolled Sri Lanka for 233 . " We had a had a few nerves before the game , being the first World Cup game , but they they settled pretty quickly when Brendon and Guppy ( Guptill ) went about their work , " Anderson said . " We all know Baz ( McCullum ) as being someone that in a big event he really turns it on. " After an impressive build up to cricket 's showpiece ODI tournament the New Zealanders have been installed among the favourites , but Anderson said McCullum made sure the players did not succumb to public pressure . " He said to treat it as another game of cricket and go about your work and keep what began as a juggernaut rolling forward and that 's what we did. Brendon 's so inspirational it 's always nice to to have him on our side. " Sri Lanka were on the verge of setting up an interesting finish to the match as they reached 124-1 in the 22nd over before Trent Boult and Vettori claimed three premier wickets for five runs in the space of 12 balls . After Boult dismissed opener Lahiru Thirimanne for 65 , Jayawardene strode to the middle and Vettori was immediately brought back into the attack and had the veteran caught behind without scoring . " It was a plan , " Anderson said. " Dan 's got him out numerous times and it obviously paid off for us today again . " He 's just so good , it 's pretty easy to sum him up. He 's played a lot of cricket and he knows how to get guys out . " The two for 34 he got put them on the back foot and they had to try and take apart the other guys and that 's pretty hard to do. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
