Meerut : a nursery for movers and shakers of the cricket ball The author has posted comments on this article Avijit Ghosh , TNN | Aug 4 , 2014 , 02.22PM IST A month ago , Bhuvi was looked upon as a medium pacer who could bat a little. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MEERUT : A few weeks before the Indian cricket team flew to England , coach Sanjay Rastogi received an unusual request from Bhuvneshwar Kumar . " Bhai saheb , I want some batting practice , " he said over the phone , " Please get some bowlers who can move the ball sideways at good speed. " Rastogi was n't surprised. The main wicket at Victoria Park ground is more Manchester than Meerut. On the lush green top , local sultans of seam and swing would sway the ball like a snake and make the technically-inept batsmen moan , " Kahan marwa diya. " It was evident by the specific nature of request that Bhuvi , primarily known as a medium-pacer , was keen to impress as a batsman on the tour . By the time the second Test was over , the 23-year-old unassuming cricketer from Meerut had accomplished what he set out to. With scores of 63 not out , 58 , 36 and 52 , he was Team India 's knight in shining armour on more than one occasion. His determined batting frustrated England , rescued India and surprised the cricket world. After two Tests , he was also the highest wicket-taker ( 11 ) on either side. A month ago , Bhuvi was looked upon as a medium pacer who could bat a little. Now he is being seen as the great missing link in Indian cricket : an all-rounder . " Bhuvi is both hard-working and disciplined. But equally important , he grasps instructions quickly and has the rare ability to apply what he has learnt in practice , " says Rastogi , who has coached the cricketer since he was a scrawny kid of 11 . Soft-spoken like his ward , Rastogi is a key reason why Victoria Park is a magnet for cricketers. The unkempt Park is home to two cricket grounds and a dozen practice-pitches and is part of the Meerut College sports complex. About 100 boys from different age groups -- u-14 , u-16 , u-19 and above -- sweat it out all year hoping to make a career out of cricket. For a nominal fee of Rs 500 per month , they hone their skills on quality turfs against other promising cricketers under proper adult supervision. Local bat manufacturing companies such SG , SS and Stanford also do their bit of philanthropy offering free cricket gear . At least 50 % of the youngsters are Meerut College students. A majority come from a 30 km radius that includes neighbouring districts and small-towns such as Muzaffarnagar , Hapur , Ghaziabad and Modinagar. Most are sons of marginal farmers . " Which is why if the cricketer is both talented and underprivileged , we ensure the fee is waived off , " says ground-in-charge and curator Ravindra Chauhan , sitting in the sports office at the elegant 78-year-old O'Donnell Pavilion . Western Uttar Pradesh is famous for its sugarcane fields and pulp fiction and notorious for honour killings and kidnapping industry. But the man who spurred hundreds of youngsters to look beyond and consider cricket as an alternative career is Praveen Kumar , the original hero of these parts. With Bhuvi joining the party and with Shami Ahmed , who plies his trade in Kolkata having roots in nearby Moradabad district , there is more meat to the area 's reputation as a nursery for pacemen . Some other well-known cricketers such as UP middle-order batsman Parvinder Singh and Railways leg-break bowler Karn Sharma also practice here. When Meerut-born Karn was bought by Sunrisers Hyderabad for Rs 3.75 crore for IPL 2014 , it created a sensation in these parts. Nowadays cricket is being seen as a genuine vehicle for social mobility in the region . A cop 's son , like Bhuvi , Praveen was spotted by the Rastogi-Chauhan duo in 2003. On their way to attend a marriage function , the two strayed into a local match where they saw a tall teenager smash the ball all around. " Later we saw Praveen bowl too. He was only 16 then and used to play local cricket. But he did not attend nets or practice in a proper way. We asked him , if he would like to come to Victoria Park and practice with us. He came riding a bicycle the very next day , " recalls Rastogi . It was the beginning of a fruitful career for the talented but temperamental cricketer. Now 27 , Praveen has played six Tests , 68 ODIs and 10 T20s since and regrettably missed out on the 2011 World Cup due to a rib injury he suffered after a relative slammed a door against him . Both Praveen and Bhuvi are big movers and shakers of the cricket ball. But Rastogi , a former medium-pacer himself , minimises his own role in making it happen. " Both were blessed with natural ability to swing the ball. We prefer not to tamper with any bowler 's grip or action. We try to just help them gain command and control over the deliveries , " he says . Despite their success , his star pupils remain wedded to Victoria Park. " Even today when Praveen comes back from a tour , he first comes to the ground , then goes home , " says curator Chauhan. And Bhuvneshwar loves to contemplate below the abundant mango tree near the swimming pool in the sports complex . It helps that Praveen and Bhuvi form a mutual admiration society. In fact , the latter admitted having taken tips from Praveen before going to England. But , more importantly , both are keen to help out younger cricketers . When Praveen spotted the nippy young left-arm seamer Deepak Kumar from nearby Bijnore district wearing a shoe without proper spikes , he immediately gifted him his own ; both are size 11. " Praveen drove home barefoot that evening , " recalls Chauhan . Deepak has since earned stint with National Cricket Academy , Bangalore. Similarly , Bhuvneshwar gave away two pair of shoes to Amit Saini , a needy left-arm spinner who plays club cricket in Delhi , recalls Chauhan . Back in the 1980s , Rastogi and Chauhan together played university cricket and are now employed with Meerut College. Both seem to relish the challenge of producing top-class cricketers. They admit that IPL has helped attracting more youngsters to the game but also add that they try to dissuade teenagers from playing T-20 tournaments. " Our criterion is a minimum of 40 overs , " Rastogi says . Chauhan 's seaming tracks have earned high praise from someone no less than Rahul Dravid . Yet , neither has received any recognition from BCCI . It rained last night and Victoria Park is flooded. Unmindful , a bunch of budding cricketers have turned up in all white. After catching practice , some of them wade into the water and begin what can only be described as a game of water volleyball . Rastogi and Chauhan are eager to talk about two of the most talented cricketers in the group : UP 's u-16 captain Badal Singh , an attacking batsman and Jai Nagar , a 15-year-old leg-break bowler who is also handy with the willow. Singh 's father works as a clerk in the army while Nagar is a cable operator 's son . " Both have a very bright future. But the truth is that all these guys are talented and dedicated , " says Rastogi , pointing towards the bunch. " Rain or sunshine , they love coming to the ground. " It is probably this obsession for the game , laced with the hope of becoming the next Bhuvi or someone better that guarantees a bright future for Indian cricket . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
