Meet the underdogs of this year 's World Cup The author has posted comments on this article Swasti Chatterjee , TNN | Mar 16 , 2015 , 01.14PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 This year 's World Cup is not just about Virat Kohli 's smashing 107 against Pakistan or Chris Gayle 's record-breaking 215 against Zimbabwe. There are other players like UAE 's Shaiman Anwar who scored over 300 runs in the tournament , including a century against Ireland and two half-centuries against Pakistan and Zimbabwe and Afghanistan 's Samiullah Shenwari , whose 96 runs against Scotland gave Afghanistan their first win. Here 's a look at the underdogs of this year 's World Cup who have shone bright and broken stereotypes of the game . Shaiman Anwar Team : UAE Achievements : This UAE player of Pakistani origin has made 309 runs in the tournament , the most runs made by any batsman from an Associate team of the World Cup . High Moment : When he made 106 runs in the UAE vs Ireland match . Mahmudullah Riyad Team : Bangladesh Achievements : The first Bangladeshi batsman to strike consecutive centuries in a World Cup tournament . High Moment : Remaining unbeaten at 128 from 123 balls against New Zealand , he entered the top five list of run scorers in this Cup . Hamid Hassan Team : Afghanistan Achievements : Hamid Hassan , the Afghan fast bowler has emerged as a cult figures of the tournament. He has taken seven wickets in the tournament , including three against Sri Lanka. He is also the first Afghani to have played at the Lord 's stadium in June 2007 . High Moment : Hassan 's biggest wicket this year Kumar Sangakkara 's. " I was just enjoying that wicket because everyone knows that Sangakkara is the number one batsman in the world , " he told a cricket website . Josh Davey Team : Scotland Achievements : Scotland 's Josh Davey has 14 wickets this World Cup and that puts him in the second position among leading wicket takers , much ahead of established bowlers from other teams . High Moment : Though Scotland has not won a match , Josh Davey has made his mark in the tournament. His scalps include those of Sri Lankan veterans like Kumar Sangakkara , Tillakaratne Dilshan and Mahela Jayawardene . Shapoor Zadran Team : Afghanistan Achievements : He gave the country its first win in the World Cup. With eight wickets , he is among the top 10 wicket-takers in the Cup but it 's his unbeaten 12 runs in 10 balls as the last player against Scotland that saw him trending on social networks . High Moment : His boundary at 49.3 to give Afghanistan their first-ever World Cup win. He also took four wickets for 38 runs against Scotland . Sean Williams Team : Zimbabwe Achievements : Though his team has lost four out of five games , Zimbabwe 's Sean Williams has been one of their outstanding performers. Williams has 289 runs to his credit in the tournament with three half centuries . High Moment : His best innings came against Ireland , where he joined Brendan Taylor in the middle at 74/4. While Taylor constructed a dominant hundred , Williams stood by him and scored 96 keeping the Irish team under threat . Ed Joyce Team : Ireland Achievements : Ed Joyce is best known as the Ireland batsman who played for two different countries , Ireland and England , in successive World Cups . High Moment : He scored 112 against Zimbabwe with a 138-run partnership with Andy Balbirnie . Samiullah Shenwari Team : Afghanistan Achievements : Samiullah Shenwari said that he had simply done his job after scoring 96 runs against Scotland , which led Afghanistan towards its first-ever World cup win. Though Afghanistan collapsed to 97 for seven to achieve the target of 211 , Shenwari turned the tables with his 147-ball innings . High Moment : Shenwari came on the crease when Afghanistan was 46 for 2. And he did not leave till the 47th over . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
