Memories of 2007 win wo n't help us : Mashrafe Mortaza The author has posted comments on this article Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Javed Miandad 's famous last ball six in 1986 psyched India to the extent that the anxiety lasted a decade. Australia did something similar to England between 1989 and 1993 that allowed them to dominate the Ashes for the next 12 years . The very complicated Duckworth Lewis method gave South Africa a shocking target in their first ever World Cup and seven years later , Steve Waugh dealt a blow that still hurts. Figuratively speaking , Bangladesh are in with an opportunity to create similar fear in the minds of their neighbours if they stun India once again in a World Cup match on Thursday. Having beaten the elder brother once , they know what it takes to win. But what they 'd probably know better is the kind of psychological edge it would give the Tigers going into the future . Eight years since that afternoon in March 2007 in Port of Spain , the shocking defeat that India suffered at the hands of Bangladesh , which forced them out of the tournament , is still discussed and dissected each time the two teams play in a major tournament . There are two ways Thursday can pan out : India win handsomely and snub their neighbours once and for all , or Bangladesh win by any margin and knock their neighbours out of the World Cup once again . " If you play well and perform , you will automatically be motivated. That 2007 team had Sachin , Sourav. You do n't compare teams and think about the past. It was a nice memory but it wo n't help us ( on Thursday ) , " Bangladesh captain Mashrafe Mortaza said on the eve of the second quarterfinal against India . Thinking about the past may not help but - should they win again - knowing what it does to the mind of the opposition certainly will. " It 's a dream that we 're all living but there 's no end to dreaming. At the end of the day , we have to go out there and play well , " says Mortaza . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
