India a Threat in Tri-Series and World Cup , Feels Michael Hussey India a Threat in Tri-Series and World Cup , Feels Michael Hussey India lost the Test series in Australia 2-0 but Michael Hussey says the sub-continental side will be far more confident in the ODI format . Last updated on Tuesday , 13 January , 2015 14 : 29 IST Total Shares India will be a far more confident unit in ODIs , says Hussey . © BCCI Sydney : Former Australian batsman Michael Hussey warned teams against underestimating India after their 0-2 loss in the Tests series and said the visitors will be a confident side when they start their title defence in next month 's World Cup. ( World Cup News | World Cup Squads ) " The big positive for India is that they have already been in Australia for the last two months. They are now well versed with the conditions here , the pace and bounce of pitches. They also have a tri-series coming up involving England. So they have a good run before the World Cup starts and nobody should underestimate them because of the Test results , " Hussey said. ( What Really Fired Kohli in Australia ? ) " Do n't read too much into the 2-0 scoreline because not only did India compete hard in the Test series but they are a completely different outfit in limited-overs. They are very confident in that mode , " he added. ( India-Pakistan World Cup Clash to See Record Viewership ) India lost the four-Test series against Australia after going down in the first two matches . Talking about India 's performance , Hussey said the visitors ' batting line did well but the bowling lacked disciplined . " Well the batting has completely changed and they have done well. Virat Kohli is a fantastic player and he has just scored runs by the heaps. I think this will continue for him going forward , " said Hussey , who was part of the Australian team during India 's 2011 tour. ( 'Stuart Binny Will Prove Critics Wrong at World Cup ' ) " But then there have been others too , like Murali Vijay and Ajinkya Rahane , giving support to Kohli. Something like that was missing in the 2011 tour. Not to mention they have been able to unearth a talent like KL Rahul. It is quite an achievement for a youngster to come to Australia and get a maiden Test ton . " I dare say that this Indian attack looks better than the one in 2011 and they are all good bowlers individually. But there is a difference between being a good bowler and bowling good. And they have bowled poorly , lacking in discipline throughout the series. However I also do believe that this series will serve as great exposure for them and they can learn a lot from this tour for the future. " Story first published on : Tuesday , 13 January 2015 13 : 16 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
