Michael Clarke in the runs in World Cup warm-up The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 11 , 2015 , 02.26PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Michael Clarke gave a pointer to his recovery from recent hamstring surgery with a knock of 64 in Australia 's World Cup warm-up game against the United Arab Emirates in Melbourne on Wednesday . Clarke , captaining Australia for the first time since the surgery almost two months ago , spent just over 90 minutes at the crease in a confidence-booster at the Melbourne Cricket Ground . The 33-year-old was promoted to opener to maximise his time in the middle , and offered a sharp chance on two after winning the toss . He steadied and kept the scoreboard ticking over in a 123-run partnership with Aaron Finch . National selectors will now assess Clarke on Thursday before considering the merits of an earlier-than-expected recall for Saturday 's World Cup opener against England at the MCG . " We 'll sum it up tomorrow , see how he pulls up more than anything , " coach Darren Lehmann told Fox Sports , issuing a guarded prognosis for when Clarke will return . " Probably the fielding is going to be the big thing. " He 's been batting really well for the last couple of weeks , so no dramas there . " We 'll see how he goes in the field , but we 're really pleased with that start and he 's been really confident. " Chief selector Rod Marsh nominated February 21 , when Australia face Bangladesh , as Clarke 's final fitness deadline , with the skipper to be dropped from the squad if he is not up to scratch by then . Clarke was initially given little hope of making the deadline , but he has exceeded expectations in his recovery . " He played really well , " Lehmann said of the side 's top-scorer. Lehmann and fellow selectors would have had limited interest in Clarke 's eight boundaries , more so his running between the wickets . There was no sharp acceleration or turns , and the right-hander looked to be running within himself at times . But Clarke managed an all-run four and followed it up with a quick single , suggesting he is shaping up well for the World Cup . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
