Misbah backs bowlers to slam brakes on South Africa The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 6 , 2015 , 01.23PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Pakistan captain Misbah-ul-Haq insists his bowlers can slam the brakes on South Africa 's batting superstars in Saturday 's World Cup clash in Auckland with AB de Villiers their prime target . South Africa have blasted totals of 400-plus in their last two Pool B matches with De Villiers notching one-day international cricket 's fastest 150 during his 66-ball 162 against the West Indies . If his brash approach was not enough , Hashim Amla and Faf du Plessis notched magnificent hundreds against Ireland while Rilee Rossouw provided impetus in the final overs. David Miller and Jean-Paul Duminy also hit hundreds in the win over Zimbabwe . " I think our bowling is doing really well and we are confident that we have got the bowlers who can get wickets against any team , " Misbah said today . " We played South Africa in 2013 and 2014 and we know how these batsmen play and we are confident that we have the bowling to put them under pressure. " Pakistan defeated the Proteas 2-1 in South Africa in November 2013 , but only leg-spinner Shahid Afridi from that attack is at the World Cup . Off-spinner Saeed Ajmal and Mohammad Hafeez were suspended due to illegal bowling actions before the tournament . Ajmal was cleared last month but was not named in the squad while Hafeez injured his ankle . Also missing from that 2013 team is left-arm seamer Junaid Khan who had to withdraw with a leg injury . Misbah admitted South Africa captain de Villiers is hard to stop and that they need to dismiss him early . " AB is the best batsman in the world in limited overs cricket , " said Misbah of his counterpart . " Obviously we have good bowlers who can put him under pressure but the only way to stop him is to get his wicket. If he stays there it 's not easy to stop him. " Paceman Mohammad Irfan is fit for the Eden Park match after injuring a hip muscle in Wednesday 's 129-run win over the UAE in Napier but batsman Haris Sohail has a swollen heel . " Irfan is fit. He bowled three or four overs in the nets and is feeling OK , there are no issues with him , " said Misbah of the giant fast bowler . " Haris has a swelling on his heel -- let 's see how he responds to treatment. " If Sohail is ruled out , then Sarfraz Ahmed will fill in. " Everybody is determined. We all know that it 's an important game for us if we want to progress in this World Cup , " said Misbah of his team who have two wins in four matches . South Africa already have one foot in the quarter-finals after three wins in four matches . There is a forecast for showers in Auckland on Saturday and should the game not be completed , the sides will be awarded a point each . " You ca n't control the weather so you need to be prepared and hope that it 's a full game and go into it with positive thoughts that you can win , " said Misbah . Pakistan have never won a World Cup match against South Africa , losing in 1992 , although they still captured the title. They also lost in the 1996 and 1999 World Cups . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
