Mitchell Johnson boost for Australia The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 3 , 2015 , 11.41AM IST After running through England , modest Johnson said he was rusty. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 PERTH : He was returning to cricket after a month but there was no indication while he bowled that he had been away from the game since the third Test match against India . He had missed the league phase of the tri-series due to an injury and appeared only in the final against England at the WACA on Sunday . It took Mitchell Johnson barely a few deliveries to be among the wickets. He sent back Ian Bell with his seventh ball. And in his third over , he had the English team in disarray as he got rid of Moeen Ali and skipper Eoin Morgan off successive balls . Despite his stupendous effort , grabbing those top three wickets and regularly clocking over 140kmph , Johnson was modest enough to say that he was rusty and would require to play a couple of more games to get into rhythm . " I felt a little bit rusty , a little bit nervous coming in , " Johnson revealed after Australia 's 112-run victory which gave the Aussies the Tri-series trophy without having dropped a game . Australian coach Darren Lehmann was delighted with Johnson 's form and fitness. " Mitch has struck form and fitness at the right time. That is good news for us as we prepare for the World Cup. He is the most experienced among the bowlers. It gives our attack the edge. I feel he is going to make an impact in the World Cup being played at home after 23 years , " Lehmann said . On his performance in the final on Sunday , Johnson said : " I was just really keen to get out there and play a game of cricket. I felt pretty comfortable . " I 've played over 150 ODI games now , so I had the confidence behind me. I looked up ( at the speed reading on the scoreboard ) a couple of times just to see , but I tried to stay away from looking up much and just focus on what I needed to do . " The pace I generated notwithstanding , the way the ball was coming out of the hand felt really good. " The more I play , the better my rhythm is. I feel much better after bowling ( in the match ) . " Johnson conceded that with new-ball options such as Mitchell Starc , Josh Hazlewood and Pat Cummins available , there is a likelihood that he may not take the new ball all the time during the World Cup . " In one-day cricket you 've got to learn to adapt , " he said. " It could happen , it just depends on conditions. We 've got two left-armers ( Starc and I ) and we 've got to think about what 's best for our team. If it 's me coming in as first change I 'd be happy to do that. " The decision to use Johnson first-change on a bouncy WACA pitch came as a surprise , but the 33-year-old claimed it was team management 's decision . He was used in spells of four and three overs in much the same manner as he does in Test cricket , to generate maximum impact. " Bowling those short spells again was really nice , " Johnson said . " I 've always said I love opening the bowling for my country , that 's where I feel I have confidence because I 've opened the bowling , bowled first-change , second-change , in powerplays. I 'm happy to bowl anywhere. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
