Mitchell Starc has been phenomenal : Dizzy The author has posted comments on this article Manuja Veerappa , TNN | Mar 28 , 2015 , 09.56AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Jason Gillespie has found purpose and motivation in being the coach of the Yorkshire County Cricket Club , but on Thursday his heart was at the SCG and his prayers were with Michael Clarke and his men. His prayers were answered as Australia stormed past India to enter the World Cup final . Gillespie , who led the Australia pace attack with Glenn McGrath until a decade ago when injuries forced him to call time of his career , believes the co-hosts will start favourites against New Zealand in the final on Sunday . Speaking to TOI about the Australian team 's victory , the 39-year-old said , " It was a great win highlighted by some terrific batting by ( Aaron ) Finch having to fight hard and Steven Smith. They were complimented with disciplined seam bowling and electric fielding. " The Sydney-born former cricketer , who is fondly called Dizzy , was all praise for Australian pace duo Mitchell Starc and Mitchell Johnson. " Starc has been phenomenal. His skill of being able to bowl swinging yorkers at 150km is the real highlight of his performance. We still have n't seen the very best of Johnson , but he played an important role. " Sunday 's trans-Tasman clash will see New Zealand play their maiden World Cup final and Gillespie revealed the final opponents are on expected lines. " I predicted this final before the start of tournament with New Zealand winning it. However , my heart says Australia ! " the veteran of 97 ODIs gushed . Gillespie , who last turned out in a competitive match for World XI - an exhibition game against Asia XI in Doha last year , believes MCG , known for its low bounce , will play host to a riveting contest. With Brendon McCullum leading admirably , Gillespie said , " New Zealander are simply following the lead of their captain. His attitude is ` Lads , we are going to be aggressive. Follow me ! ' And they do just that. Mike Hesson and McCullum have given the team incredible belief. " Assessing the strengths on either side , Gillespie said , " McCullum and ( Kane ) Williamson will be key for New Zealand with the bat. Trent Boult is highly skilled - it shows that if bowlers get their skills right , they can be successful. On the other hand , I think Australia will target their third bowler Matt Henry . On the Australian side , Starc and ( James ) Faulkner will be the key with the ball and I expect David Warner to come good with the bat in the final. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
