Mithali wants more tours for women 's cricket team The author has posted comments on this article Prasanth Menon , TNN | Aug 18 , 2014 , 09.13AM IST " There were eight debutants for India who had never played in whites at the international level. So it was a challenge for me as a captain too , " said Mithali Raj. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 KOCHI : Mithali Raj has been the backbone of Indian women 's cricket team for over the last decade and a half. The veteran of nine Tests is quite elated at her team 's victory over England in the one-off Test at Wormsley on Saturday . A day after that memorable win , Mithali spoke with TOI from Wormsley. Excerpts.. . Playing a Test after eight years and winning it. What does this victory mean ? There were eight debutants for India who had never played in whites at the international level. So it was a challenge for me as a captain too. It was a great opportunity for the girls to prove their mettle. And I am glad that we cashed in on the opportunity. I am quite delighted at the way some of the youngsters rose to the challenge . You mentioned about having eight debutants in your team. Did you give them any special advice before they stepped on to the field ? I told them not to put undue pressure on themselves and asked them to enjoy their game. Since I had too much on my plate as a skipper I could n't pay attention to each individual on a personal level. That 's where other senior players like Jhulan ( Goswami ) and Karu ( Jain ) helped out. They really encouraged the youngsters . The conditions were quite alien most. How did you overcome this challenge ? It was a good toss to win as it was freezing out there. Some of these girls are not used to these conditions. But we had prepared well with a camp in Bangalore before we came to England. And I think that created a very good team spirit. There was total commitment from each one in the squad. And it was total team effort that brought about this win and it augurs well for the future of Indian women 's cricket . Who do you think are the ones for the future ? Niranjana is quite talented. She has it in her to become a very good allrounder. Smriti Mandhana is an exceptional batswoman . Do you regret the fact you have played just nine Tests in your long international career ? I ca n't do anything about it. But hopefully this victory will change how women 's cricket is perceived in the country. We proved that we are second to none. I think the some of these girls have great potential. But to enhance their talent they need to have regular tours. We need to play more games and this team will only get better . You have been pretty vocal about having central contract for women cricketers.. . Once you have a central contract , cricket would become a career option for many players which is not the case right now. Women cricketers now have to worry about a lot of things , like their job , a regular income and so on. Once we have a central contract , the game will become the sole focus. It will encourage more girls to take up cricket . You have been lauded for your victory over England while your male counterparts have been receiving quite a bit of flak. Have you been following the fortunes of Dhoni and his men ? Men 's cricket and women 's cricket are like chalk and cheese. After our win on Saturday , the Oval Test was being telecast. So we watched the game for a while. Dhoni and his team may not have got the desired results off late but I think they are a very good team. I am sure they would bounce back . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
