Modest celebration for Team India in Adelaide The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 16 , 2015 , 10.53AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 The victory over arch-rivals Pakistan in their opening World Cup match was followed by a low key celebration by Team India at their hotel , where the team management set up a small party for the players and the support staff . " Yes , we had a small party because a win over Pakistan is always special. But we also realise that it is just the beginning of the longwinding tournament and we have a long way to go. We do not want to lose focus or intensity by celebrating too wildly , " said a team official . " Moreover , we have to fly to Melbourne on Monday afternoon and keeping that schedule in mind , we did not want to have a long party. The players are tired after the match and need to rest before they catch the flight in a few hours ' time. The hotel management got a cake for the occasion. " A player also confirmed that there was a small party where the team members came together and enjoyed the victory. " After all the build-up , it was a big relief and we are happy we were able to put smiles on the faces of these fans , " he said . Fans rejoice in the streets The 30,000-odd Indian cricket fans who had descended on the city to witness their team 's clash against Pakistan on Sunday , celebrated on the streets of Adelaide well into the night. In the Rundle Mall area , and King William Road near the team hotel , the fans blew horns which taking out victory processions. In the morning , the same fans were out in the streets shouting " Jeetaga re jeetega , India jeetega. " By night it had turned to " Jeet gaya bhai , India jeet gaya. " Sea Of Blue in the stands Even the Adelaide Oval was a sea of blue during the match.The Pakistanis were not only dominated on the field , but were outnumbered in the stands at a ratio of 4 : 1. Barring one stand opposite the pavilion , which was chock-a-block with green , the rest of the stands wore the blue hue with just a smattering of green . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
