Mohit Sharma : An honest trier from Haryana The author has posted comments on this article Prasad RS , TNN | Feb 14 , 2015 , 10.45AM IST This inherent quality of sticking to one 's roots and working hard within one 's limitations is what has held Mohit in good stead during his brief international career thus far. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 During the 2013 edition of the All India Buchi Babu tournament , Haryana was playing Tamil Nadu Districts XI at the Vivekananda College Grounds. Even as the game was in full swing , Mohit Sharma - part of the Haryana squad - was busy signing autographs and obliging interview requests , thanks to his 'India cricketer ' tag as he had just made his debut on the tour of Zimbabwe . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 While many in the current crop of cricketers try to go out of their way to converse in English , Mohit politely enquired if he could speak in Hindi . " Hindi toh hamaari maatribhasha hai aur hamaari baat acche se hoti hai ( Hindi is our mother tongue , and I am quite comfortable in it ) , but if you insist I am fine with English as well , " he said . This inherent quality of sticking to one 's roots and working hard within one 's limitations is what has held Mohit in good stead during his brief international career thus far . The 26-year-old , who is in the World Cup squad as a replacement for the injured Ishant Sharma , represents the ever-growing breed of India cricketers to have sprung up from smaller cities . Born in Ballabhgarh , a small town in the Faridabad district of Haryana , Mohit 's rise in international cricket is akin to his run-up to the crease -slow and steady. " From a young age , I knew what I wanted to do -to represent India , " Mohit had told TOI in an earlier chat . With a family that supported his burning ambition to play the game at the highest level , young Mohit started off like most do -playing tennis-ball cricket nearby his locality at Garg Colony in Ballabhgarh . Even at his school , Aggarwal Public School in Ballabhgarh , Mohit did just enough to pass his exams. A target to represent the country firmly in place , Mohit gave it his all . His next stop was the academy run by former India stumper Vijay Yadav in Faridabad where Mohit 's skill was fine-tuned. Discipline and dedication has always been Mohit 's talking points . However , what is endearing is his ability to augment his strengths , and work on his weaknesses. " Swing is my biggest weapon. I ca n't bowl at Dale Steyn 's speed because my body wo n't support that. So , I work within my limitations , " Mohit had said . An injury to regular pacer Harshal Patel saw Mohit being drafted into the Haryana side , and he made his Ranji debut against Gujarat in Surat in the 2011 season . While he featured in just three matches that season , Mohit 's watershed moment was to arrive a year later. The 2012-13 Ranji season saw Mohit get a longer run - playing in eight matches , and returning with 37 wickets . Mohit did n't look back after that. A place in the IPL champion side Chennai Super Kings beckoned , and Mohit made full use of the platform. He scalped 20 wickets from 15 outings during the 2013 season , be coming an important cog in the champion 's side . The IPL exploits led him getting the India cap later that year. Mohit is still not a big name but India may well need his consistency and perseverance at the World Cup . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
