ALSO READ : Go , show your controlled aggression , says Tendulkar " The pain was there for some time. But after he fell down while bowling during a camp of Ranji ODI probables , doctors advised him complete rest. The injury put him back by a year , " recalls Yadav , whose cricket academy has been home and heart to the paceman since 2004 . ALSO READ : Quran-reading at Shami 's house for 'playing XI' Injuries are part of any fast bowler 's career. But a debilitating back injury can raise serious self-doubts in any cricketer 's mind. " Mohit had no idea whether he would be able to bowl again. Badi himmat aur mehnat karke usne dobara practice karna shuru kiya , " says Yadav , who played one Test and 19 ODIs for India . But it only got worse for Mohit. In 2010 , he started having severe pain in the shin. While training for Haryana 's U-22 camp , the pain became severe. He broke down again . A close friend recalls that Mohit was extremely troubled those days. His father was a foreman at the Escorts factory. Pursuing cricket required money which was n't exactly plentiful at home . " He was on the verge of quitting. One day , we came to know that he was about to join a friend 's cricket coaching academy in Ballabhgarh , where he was born and where his parents lived , " said Aniket Upadhyay , his firm friend and roommate at the academy located in the interiors of Haryana 's Faridabad district . That 's when Yadav stepped in. " Do n't leave cricket right now. Ask your parents to give you one more year , " Yadav told his promising ward. Mohit was offered a deal : in return for a free stay at the academy , the paceman could train other young cricketers. Those were tough days for Mohit. " He would catch a train or bus to Delhi where a physio helped him with rehab , " recalls Yadav . By 2012 , Mohit had regained fitness and form. Everybody was impressed by his commitment at the Ranji training camp he was selected for. Incredibly , even his Ranji debut was delayed by an injury in his left hand 's webbing. Finally , he made a modest debut against Baroda in Dec 2012 . The following year proved to be his breakthrough season. It helped that Haryana 's home ground was at Lahli , a green top. A bag of 37 wickets in Ranji got him a regular place in CSK where he impressed captain MS Dhoni leading to an India debut . He got the Man of the Match in his first ODI against Zimbabwe. And for once , luck shone on him when Ishant Sharma 's injury got him a place in the WC squad . In the past three years , Mohit has strengthened his body with regular rehabs and has added a yard to his pace . Discipline has played a key role in the Mohit success story. Whenever Mohit is in town , he and Aniket still share Room No. 5 at the Vijay Yadav Residential cricket academy . Along with signed photographs , Mohit 's purple cap for being the highest taker in IPL , hangs in the room. " He eats the same food as the rest of us when he stays. He likes Arijit Singh 's songs and still loves the hostel 's bread-omelette , " he says . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
