Moments that defined the Cup Down Under The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Mar 28 , 2015 , 05.32PM IST Page 1 of 4 Double ? No trouble This World Cup has shown that a double century is the new milestone. Chris Gayle took Zimbabwe apart in the group league , smashing an exhilarating 215. The West Indian shattered South African Gary Kirsten 's 188 not out from the 1996 World Cup match against United Arab Emirates , thus posting the highest individual score in the tournament 's history. New Zealand 's Martin Guptill followed it up in style after he hit a marauding 237 not out against the West Indies in the quarterfinals. The Kiwi became the highest ever World Cup scorer. David Warner hit a 178 , Sanga got four tons on the trot... basically , batsmen have never had it so good . Blimey ! England blown away This is not a World Cup the Englishmen would want to remember for long. They invented the game and here they were , being given a royal sendoff by minnows Bangladesh. Crikey ! Winning by 15 runs , Bangladesh moved into the quarters for the first time , where they lost to India. Mohammad Mahmudullah also became the first Bangladesh batsman to score a World Cup century in the England match. To rub some more salt into English wounds , let 's not forget that Bangladesh won three out of their last four matches . Heroes gone Two heroes strolled into folklore this World Cup. With their loss to South Africa in the quarterfinals , Mahela Jayawardene and Kumar Sangakkara bowed out of ODIs. A wave , a nod and it was all over ! " Well done on glorious ODI careers @ KumarSanga2 and @ MahelaJay , " tweeted Sachin Tendulkar. We 'll miss their grace and poise on and off the pitch . Ruthless de Villiers It was his day and AB de Villiers made the most out of it. Some crazy power hitting by the South African skipper saw him scoring the fastest 150 in ODI history as West Indies lost by a massive 257 runs in a one-sided contest. De Villiers struck 17 fours and eight sixes in an awesome exhibition of power hitting. But then , one man 's genius is not enough to carry forward an entire team , as we saw in the semis . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
