More relieved than proud , says Lokesh Rahul The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Jan 9 , 2015 , 09.29AM IST Indian opener Lokesh Rahul celebrates after reaching his century during the third day 's play in the fourth Test against Australia at the Sydney Cricket Ground. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Only 22 , there were fears KL Rahul had been rushed into Test cricket when he fell victim to nerves in Melbourne with the bat , and dropped catches on the first day in this game . Sent in at the awkward position of No. 6 in the first innings in the Boxing Day match , Rahul lasted eight balls. He was even dropped once at midwicket trying to blast Lyon out of sight , and responded by trying to sweep a delivery bowled into the rough outside off. He managed only a top edge . In the second innings , the team management pushed him to No. 3 , and the same brain freeze followed : he took on Johnson 's short delivery and found himself not adequate to the task . Here at the SCG , his nightmares seemed to continue when he dropped Chris Rogers at second slip when the batsman was on 19 , and Warner at backward point when on 62 . Thursday , however , was a different story as the batsman , having come in to open , crafted his maiden Test century and dished out a lesson in application. The abstinence in his strokeplay was at odds with Melbourne 's intemperance . He played late , worked the ball and bided his time , knowing the runs would come. Along the way -though he said he did n't know when -the nerves eased and Rahul knew he belonged at this level. " I 'm more relieved than proud , " he said . " I did n't have the debut I expected. It was a nightmare. I dropped a sitter here. I kept telling myself the only way from here is up. I came out thinking this is my first game. I do n't know what was going on in my mind. It was all too fast. Batting up the order gave me a little more time to calm myself down. After I batted last night , I realized this is a bat-and-ball game. I 'm very pleased with this knock. " There 's a touch of that other Rahul - Dravid - in his batting too , that same gift of technical nous. This is no surprise , given Dravid has been involved in grooming this young 22-year-old from Bangalore , and the two share a strong mentor-pupil relationship . " As a young kid in Bangalore , Rahul Dravid used to come and train with us whenever he was not playing international cricket. That gave all the youngsters an opportunity to talk to him , " said Rahul. " He ( Dravid ) has always been kind enough to share his experience. He has always given good advice. He is a good role model to look up to. " Dravid , in fact , spoke out strongly for Rahul 's selection for this Australia series before the selection meeting in November , saying , " Rahul has scored over 1000 runs in the domestic season and looks in really good form with twin hundreds in the Duleep final , so it 's good to pick him if he 's in good form. " Rahul had a tremendous domestic season , scoring 1158 runs in 15 first-class matches at 52.63. There was the century in each innings for South Zone against Central Zone in the Duleep Trophy final . He has worked his way through the ranks , having represented India under-19s at the 2010 World Cup and also India A , for which he toured Australia but averaged in the mid-30s . " The seniors told me you do n't always get a debut you expect , " Rahul said on Thursday. " It was a rush of blood ( in Melbourne ) . I have batted in the middle order earlier. That is one of the key things players told me - take time between balls and give yourself time to breathe. " The main difference between international and domestic cricket is the mental preparation. You have to be more disciplined with the shot selection since then bowlers do n't give anything away. I play the pull shot in domestic cricket but here it has got me into trouble. Duncan ( Fletcher ) and Ravi Shastri have been very supportive. " After the debut ton , Rahul seemed at pains to point out that he was fighting a battle for survival. Importantly , he had the luck he needed , with Steve Smith having a bad day in the field . Having passed this ordeal , maybe India will see Rahul taking his game up a notch , to the point where he can start enjoying himself at the crease. The debut century in Sydney places Rahul with the likes of VVS Laxman and Brian Lara , who too got to three figures first at the SCG. It promises a lot . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
