MSD & Co let hair down on day off from work The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 12 , 2015 , 11.37AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : It was yet another day away from work for the Indian team. They rested in the morning and attended an official function in the evening. The players have hardly picked the bat in the last 12 days . They have practiced just one day since their last tri-series game on January 30 and have played two warm-up matches since. The day after they posted their first win on the tour against minnows Afghanistan , India decided to cool their heels in the hotel and came out only in the evening for a public function at the Adelaide Oval , where the South Australian premier Jay Wilson Weatherill presented MS Dhoni and his men to some adoring Indian fans outside the South Gate . Following a sequence of dance and songs by Indian groups , Team India were invited on the stage and introduced to the vociferous fans , who kept chanting " jeetega bhai jeeta , India jeetega " . They wanted Dhoni to promise them that the team would beat Pakistan again in the World Cup on Sunday , but Dhoni did n't take the bait. After the public presentation , the team had dinner with the SA Premier and many dignitaries at the Oval. This is what Dhoni had to say to the fans outside the Adelaide Oval.. . On the long stay in Adelaide It has been good experience to be in Adelaide. We have been here ( in Australia ) for the past three months , and we have spent a lot of time in Adelaide. This was like our base , out of the three months we have been in Australia we have spent over a month in Adelaide. The place has treated us well and the fans have actually made us feel at home. Often you wonder how long we have been away from home. But if we are not feeling it , we have to thank the beautiful place that Adelaide is . On the break from cricket We got some time off after the ODI series. A few of us went to the spas while others went to wine fields and adventure parks. At the vineyards , you know our media manager Dr Baba drank up all the wine and nothing was left for us. We also went on a long trail walk and it was great fun during the few off-days we had. We made the most of the break. We have come back fresh and rejuvenated . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
