MS Dhoni still silent on reason for Test retirement The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 18 , 2015 , 09.45AM IST Dhoni simply does not want to make public the reasons behind his sudden decision. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : A persistent lady journalist from Australia asked India 's ODI skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni , not once but twice , to explain his decision to retire from Test cricket . He was facing the media for the second time after his retirement from the longer format of the game. Not that the Indian media persons did not have the inclination to ask the question. It is only that they knew what the response was going to be and it would have been a waste of time and effort . Dhoni 's expected reply was : " I have nothing to add on the issue to what has been said in the press note issued by the BCCI on my retirement. " When the lady popped the question again at the end of the media briefing , Dhoni muttered , " Yes , it is your right to ask questions. But it is my decision whether to answer ( or not ) . " Those were his closing lines as he walked out of the conference room. Not in disgust , but because the briefing was officially over . It has now been over a fortnight since Dhoni decided to retire from Test cricket , but he has not uttered a word on the issue. And when he was asked the question today , he did not show any discomfort . He simply does not want to make public the reasons behind his sudden decision and it is very unlikely that much will be heard on the issue from him in the near-future . Luckily , the probing Aussie and British media was on its way from Sydney after covering Friday 's match there. So they could not make it to the MCG in time for the press meet to bombard him with questions . They had to make do with a sedate James Faulkner , who talked to the media at the Melbourne airport on arrival from Sydney ! Surely , it is not the last time Dhoni will be pestered on the issue. But knowing his nature , it is certain he will stick to his decision to keep mum. Maybe , if he lifts the World Cup here on March 29 , he may have a something to say on the issue . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
