Mudgal panel clears Srini , nails Gurunath for betting The author has posted comments on this article Dhananjay Mahapatra , TNN | Nov 4 , 2014 , 10.06AM IST With regard to N Srinivasan and some eminent cricketers , it said allegations against them were unverified and needed to be probed. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : In its final report to the Supreme Court on Monday , the Justice Mudgal committee said it did not find any evidence to link Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) president N Srinivasan to his son-in-law Gurunath Meiyappan 's betting activities during the Indian Premier League T20 tournament in 2013 . The report , submitted in sealed cover to a bench headed by Justice T S Thakur , will be taken up for hearing on November 10 and marks the culmination of the extensive inquiry process set in motion by the Supreme Court in October last year . Even as the Mudgal committee held Meiyappan guilty of betting , it failed to find enough evidence of his involvement in the far more serious offence of spot fixing. Evidence of Meiyappan 's involvement in fixing would have put not just him but Srinivasan and the players of M S Dhoni-led Chennai Super Kings in serious legal trouble , with possible consequences extending to scrapping of the team and lengthy bans on individual players. CSK is owned by India Cements , whose managing director is Srinivasan . The committee had first submitted its report in February , finding Meiyappan guilty of betting and reject ing the claim of CSK that he was not a team official . With regard to Srinivasan and some eminent cricketers , it said allegations against them were unverified and needed to be probed . The court , while asking the Mudgal panel to probe the charges , had forced Srinivasan to keep off the affairs of the BCCI till the probe was over , though it allowed him take over as chairman of the ICC . The Mudgal committee is learnt to have said in its final report that there was no clinching evidence to link Meiyappan 's betting activities to his father-in-law . Although the panel said some nagging issues about Srinivasan 's conduct remain unresolved , its report vindicates his stand that he had nothing to do with Meiyappan 's work , and will allow him to renew his request to the apex court to let him get back to the top post in BCCI . Moreover , this will also allow him to contest elections for the BCCI president 's post , which will take place dur ing the November 20 annual general body meeting of the board. Though the top post earlier went by rotation among the four zones , Srinivasan will be eligible to contest again as the BCCI amended its rules to permit anyone from any zone to contest the elections . With Mumbai Police confirming the voice samples of Meiyappan , the Mudgal panel added sting to its finding about his deep involvement in betting activities though the evidence was scanty to return a finding on his involvement in spot-fixing . It reiterated its earlier finding that Meiyappan had flouted IPL rules as well as the IPL code of conduct for players and team officials by bringing the game of cricket into disrepute. It also reiterated that Meiyappan was for all practical purposes a team official of Chennai Super Kings . On August 29 , the committee had submitted an interim report to the SC but sought two more months to wind up the inquiry on the ground that it needed to question some Indian cricketers who were touring with the team in England . In collecting evidence to compile the final report , the committee was assisted by a team headed by VB Mishra , senior IPS officer and deputy director general in Narcotics Control Bureau , whose services were requisitioned by the apex court along with an officer each from Delhi , Mumbai and Chennai police . " The allegations of betting and passing on information against Gurunath Meiyappan stand proved. However , allegation of ( match ) fixing require further investigation , " said the panel , also comprising additional solicitor general L N Rao and Nilay Dutta . On the report , Justice Mudgal told reporters , " We have done our work and now it 's up to SC to do justice in the matter. It 's up to the Supreme Court whether it finds our work satisfactory. We complied with the order and have done a good job. However , the report has been filed before the court and it ( SC ) will decide the further course of action. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
