Mudgal panel refuses to give clean chit to Srinivasan The author has posted comments on this article Dhananjay Mahapatra , TNN | Nov 15 , 2014 , 01.39PM IST The board said it would like to await the court 's view on the Mudgal panel 's findings against Srinivasan. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : BCCI president N Srinivasan found himself under fresh pressure on Friday with the Supreme Court appointed Justice Mukul Mudgal panel listing instances of possible 'misdemeanour ' and 'conflict of interest ' involving him . Although the panel found no evidence to link Srinivasan to his son-in-law Gurunath Meiyappan 's betting activities and cleared his team , MS Dhoni-led Chennai Super Kings , the report again raised doubts over whether Srinivasan can prolong his hold over the country 's richest sports body , which dominates cricket globally . The committee 's final report rejected the argument that Meiyappan was merely a cricket enthusiast who was not engaged with CSK 's affairs. It reiterated its earlier finding that going by IPL operational rules , Srinivasan 's son-in-law was an official of CSK. It listed detailed evidence about Meiyappan 's involvement in betting during IPL 2013. The report also presented evidence of Rajasthan Royals ' co-owner Raj Kundra 's possible involvement in betting . The report took into account Sourav Ganguly 's analysis of the May 12 , 2013 match between CSK and RR , which had evoked suspicion of match-fixing. It verified allegations against cricketers and gave clean chits to Stuart Binny , Owais Shah and Samuel Badree . The three had played for RR in IPL 2013 . The court decided to make public only the portions of the report dealing with Srinivasan , Meiyappan , Kundra and IPL COO Sundar Raman , keeping back the Mudgal panel report on cricketers. Indicating that Srinivasan may not be completely out of the woods despite the Mudgal panel not finding any link between him and Meiyappan 's activities , a bench of Justices T S Thakur and F M I Kalifulla said , " We have gone through the report. The report does suggest some misdemeanour also. " The impact of the bench 's cautious observations on the contents of the report was instantaneous. The Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) immediately informed the court that it would again postpone its annual general meeting for election of its president , which was earlier put off from Sept to Nov 20 . When BCCI counsel CA Sundaram raised the issue of Srinivasan 's participation in the board elections , the bench said , " We have not stopped your election. You had voluntarily kept out of BCCI affairs during the inquiry by Justice Mudgal committee. The elections were due in September , now it is November 20. Unless we address the issues ( raised by the committee ) , we can not say anything ( about Srinivasan ) . " The board said it would like to await the court 's view on the Mudgal panel 's findings against Srinivasan , who on the strength of recent amendments to the BCCI regulations , was preparing to run for the president 's post again . The court fixed further hearing on November 24. The court asked counsel for petitioner Cricket Association of Bihar ( CAB ) and other parties - Srinivasan , Kundra , Meiyappan and Sundar Raman - to file their objections to the report before the Nov 24 hearing . In its Feb 9 report , the Justice Mudgal panel had said , " The role of Gurunath Meiyappan in CSK as the team official stands proved and the allegations of betting and passing on information against Meiyappan stand proved . However , allegations of ( match ) fixing require further investigation. " The report , signed by Justice Mudgal and senior advocate L Nageswara Rao , added , " The committee is of the view that the material on record clearly indicated that Gurunath Meiyappan was the face of CSK and the team official of CSK. " With forensic laboratory test confirming voice sample of Meiyappan in intercepted telephone conversations , separate finding by Nilay Dutta in the earlier report assumed significance . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
