Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy : MCA urges BCCI to reschedule meet The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Apr 2 , 2015 , 09.40AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : It was n't a surprise that Mumbai suffered a 17-run defeat in their opening match of the quarterfinal league of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy , the domestic T20 tournament , to Orissa at the DRIEMS ground , Tangi , in Cuttack , on Wednesday. Chasing 126 , they folded up for 108 in just 70 minutes and 14.4 overs . Mumbai were missing nine of their regular players and were being led by Sufiyan Shaikh , who was n't even in the XI throughout the season in the Ranji and Vijay Hazare Trophy tourneys . In fact , almost all the sides playing in the event have been forced to field second-string players , with the main lot having to report to their franchisees ' training camps ahead of the IPL , which kicks off on April 8 . The business end of the tournament thus got devalued , but the BCCI has always made it clear that the IPL was far more important than the domestic T20 event . TOI has learnt that the Mumbai Cricket Association ( MCA ) has written a letter to Board secretary Anurag Thakur , asking the parent body to reschedule the Mushtaq Ali T20 meet from next season to avoid farcical situations like the one most teams are facing . " We have requested the BCCI to schedule it at a time when all our first choice players are available , and we can field a full-strength team for what is an important tourney for us , " MCA secretary Nitin Dalal told TOI on Wednesday. Most state associations feel the same way too . " At the domestic captains and coaches ' conclave held recently , it was mooted that this event be played before the IPL auctions. The chairman of the BCCI technical committee ( TC ) , Anil Kumble , was present at that conclave , and his panel will now deliberate on this issue. The TC sets the guidelines for the tours and programmes committee , which finalizes the schedule , " said BCCI game development manager Ratnakar Shetty . The IPL franchisees too want the Mushtaq Ali T20 to be played before the auctions so that they can spot and pick talented players in the domestic circuit . " With the World T20 scheduled to be held in February-March in India next year , this tournament will be played much earlier next season , " Shetty stated . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
