My career really took off after that ton in Perth : Tendulkar The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jul 23 , 2014 , 06.26PM IST " One innings that changed my career or gave shape to my career was in Perth , 1992 , " said Sachin. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Once again terming it his best Test ton , batting legend Sachin Tendulkar today said his career took flight following the knock of 114 on a bouncy WACA track in 1992 , adding that the innings against a hostile Australian attack in Perth gave him immense confidence . " One innings that changed my career or gave shape to my career was in Perth , 1992. Perth , at least at that time , was regarded to be the fastest wicket and the hostility of the Australian fast bowlers was something which was difficult to handle. I was able to score a 100 and I was only 19 , " he said during an interaction with school children here . " And just two matches before that , I had scored a hundred in Sydney but they were two different kinds of surfaces. I knew that Perth was the kind of wicket which I would not get to play anywhere in the world and If I can bat on Perth and score runs then I am possibly equipped to go on any other track which is fast and bouncy and score runs there . " My career was just starting. I had done well for a couple of years by then but it really took off after that Perth innings because I felt I was ready to take on the world. By no means I was over confident but I became a confident cricketer where any challenge put up against me , I was equipped to face that , " he added . The retired great interacted with Ryan International school children at north western Malad during the launch of 'Kaspersky Kids Awareness Programme' . His response came when he was asked by a student to rate his best Test century out of the 51 tons he had scored in his 24-year international career in which he also notched up 49 ODI hundreds to make it a round 100 centuries . Tendulkar hung up his boots last November after a glittering career that saw him amass 15,921 runs in Tests , at an average of 53.78 , and 18426 runs in 463 ODIs at an average of 44.83 . The batting maestro said though his father was not interested in cricket he supported Tendulkar when it came to choosing his career , and he would do the same for his children . " In my case my father did n't decide that I should play cricket. He gave me the freedom to express myself. Above all he found out what I was interested in and of course it was with the help of my brother . " My father was not interested in cricket at all but it was my brother 's initiative. My brother said we need to make him join a summer camp and partially also because I was a very naughty kid. That is how my career started , " he said . " I want the same thing to happen to my children. My son ( Arjun ) enjoys cricket. Earlier he enjoyed playing football and then it was chess. Now it is cricket . " So whatever he wants to be in life , all I have asked him is to be sincere and honest. I have told him that I will support you and guide you in whatever you want to be in life . " So is the case with my daughter ( Sara ) . She wants to follow her mother 's footsteps. She wants to become a doctor or go the medical side and she has full backing. So it is their choice , " he added . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
