My job is to find out what went wrong and file a report : Shastri The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 20 , 2014 , 11.54AM IST Shastri hopes to achieve his objective by working closely with the players , most of whom he knows very closely. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : For someone who started his Test career batting at No. 10 and ended up being one of India 's most successful openers , life has always been a challenge for Ravi Shastri . The former India captain , who was unveiled as the director of the Indian team for the ODI series in England on Tuesday , is ready to put his best foot forward in a bid to turn around the country 's cricket fortunes . " I got a call from the BCCI secretary on Monday. When they gave me the brief , I could not say no because it was for the cause of Indian cricket which has given me everything , " said Shastri , who agreed to put his TV commentary assignments on hold for the moment . Asked what would be his exact role , Shastri said : " My brief is to work with Duncan Fletcher and find out why a team that posted a splendid victory at Lord 's , literally collapsed in the last three matches. Like the BCCI , I too am eager to find out what went wrong and how it can be set right. " Would he be interested in taking up the job fulltime ? " I ca n't talk about the future because the situation is quite fluid. My first job is to find out what went wrong and file a report to the BCCI. It would be up to the Board to act on it and take it forward , " Shastri said . Shastri hopes to achieve his objective by working closely with the players , most of whom he knows very closely. Time being short , Shastri began his new job by holding a series of meetings - with captain MS Dhoni , coach Fletcher and IPL CEO Sundar Raman at the team hotel on Tuesday . Asked how it would be different from 2007 when he had similarly answered BCCI 's call after Greg Chappell had tendered his resignation , Shastri said : " At that point of time , too , Indian cricket was going through a tough phase. So I had agreed to do my bit . This time too it was no different. " Shastri said he foresaw no problems in working with Fletcher. " The BCCI has briefed him , too about my role and I do n't see why we ca n't all work together , " said Shastri , who hopes to get started as soon as assistant coaches Sanjay Bangar and Bharat Arun land here along with new fielding coach R Sridhar . THE TRUE ALL-ROUNDER Former India cricketer Ravi Shastri is an all-rounder in the true sense. From being a player to now the Indian team director , he has essayed all roles. TOI takes a look at the various hats the former India skipper has donned over the years . PLAYER : A useful left-arm-spinner and gutsy batsman who could bat anywhere from No. 7 to No. 1 , Shastri was never very talented. But what he lacked in talent , he made up for with grit and street-smartness. His greatest moment was when he was crowned Champion of Champions in the World Championship of Cricket in 1985 Down Under for which he won an Audi. He also hit six sixes in a Ranji Trophy match against Baroda off Tilak Raj at the Wankhede in 1985. Shastri captained India in just one Test which the team won against West Indies in Chennai , thanks to Narendra Hirwani 's 16-wicket haul and 11 ODIs out of which he won 6 , notably a tournament in Sharjah ( 1988 ) . Experts like Ian Chappell often claimed Shastri was the best captain that India never had for a decent length of time . NCA CHAIRMAN : Was appointed NCA chairman briefly in 2007 after replacing former skipper Kapil Dev , who was sacked after joining the rebel ICL league . IPL GC MEMBER : When the IPL was conceptualized by Lalit Modi , he handpicked Sunil Gavaskar , Ravi Shastri and Tiger Pataudi to be in the Governing Council. Shastri continues to be in that panel . MANAGER IN BANGLADESH : After India 's disastrous show in the West Indies in the 50-over World Cup in 2007 , coach Greg Chappell was sacked and Shastri volunteered to travel to Bangladesh as interim manager. India ended up winning both the Test and ODI series . INTERVIEW COMMITTEE MEMBER : He was in the three-member interviewing committee along with Sunil Gavaskar and S Venkatraghavan who selected John Wright as India 's first foreign coach. He was also in the same committee that picked Greg Chappell and Gary Kirsten as coaches . COMMENTATOR : Persistent knee troubles meant that Shastri had to quit the sport at the age of 31. He tried his hand at commentary though during the 1994 quadrangular series in Sri Lanka and became quite successful at it. He has a happy knack of being on air when India registered momentous triumphs like the NatWest series win in 2002 , the World T20 victory in 2007 , the CB series win in 2008 and the World Cup triumph in 2011. He is also a noted columnist with the Times Of India . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
