My name pops up each time there 's a controversy : Dhoni The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 26 , 2015 , 08.58AM IST MS Dhoni said that as one IPL controversy has ended , another will surely be around the corner. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : If MS Dhoni thought the media would let him live in peace after the Supreme Court verdict on the IPL scam , he was mistaken. After choosing to remain silent on the issue , Dhoni finally reacted , saying , whenever any controversy props up in Indian cricket , his name is linked to it and he has learnt to take things in his stride . He further said that as one IPL controversy has ended , another will surely be around the corner . " My name keeps popping up every time there is a controversy , but I have learnt to deal with it , " was his reaction on Sunday. When he was asked if the SC judgment has come as a relief , he stressed , " I know one thing , irrespective of what is there , when it comes to Indian cricket , my name keeps popping up. This ( IPL betting case ) has been settled , but now something new will pop up. It keeps popping up. I am quite used to it. If there is nothing , some speculative story comes up , big or small. I have to keep dealing with all these things. It is the end of one story , something else may start in a couple of days ' time and you can monitor it. " His closeness to the BCCI president and being the captain of the Chennai Super Kings , an IPL team owned by India Cements , has put Dhoni in an uncomfortable position following the IPL betting controversy. There have been many speculative media reports linking him to the row. However , there has been no indictment , or his being involved in any of the issues. Every time he has been asked by the media , he has refused to react . On Sunday , he was tactfully asked if the judgment had come as a relief to him personally. He may not have given away much , but his reaction seemed to suggest that a load had been lifted off his shoulders . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
