Nathan Lyon exposes spin woes of Indians The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Dec 14 , 2014 , 01.58PM IST Nathan Lyon has ended up with the best-ever figures for a spinner in a Test match against India. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Batting or bowling , Indians did n't get the off-spin angle right in this Test. No doubt the pitch was turning and bouncing , but then Indian batsmen are supposed to be masters of playing finger spin , or any kind of spin , for that matter . Maybe they could have limited the damage , or maybe the pitch was unplayable. Or perhaps it 's no accident that Nathan Lyon has now ended up with the best-ever figures for a spinner in a Test match against India . While Vijay and Kohli put up masterful displays of batting on Saturday -with Michael Clarke praising the innings as two of the finest he had seen --the rest , it can be said , were n't up to par. Cheteshwar Pujara , for example , has now lost his wicket to Nathan Lyon for the fourth time in Tests , the most to any one bowler . Graeme Swann tormented the Indian batsmen in their own den in 2012 , while Saeed Ajmal had his fair share of success before his action was called into question. In England , Moeen Ali became an embarrassment . There have been six instances of finger spinners grabbing five wickets or more in an innings against India in the last five years. Lyon figures thrice - twice now in Adelaide and once in Delhi - while Swann and Shane Shillingford feature twice. Muttiah Muralitharan in Galle in 2010 and Suraj Randiv in Colombo on the same tour too have their names on the list , as does Moeen Ali in Southampton earlier this year . The likely reason is that India tend to relax against spin. But that was not the issue here. This was a pitch where Lyon had all the help , and India paid the price for thinking they could chase the target down. " Nathan has improved a lot as a bowler since the last time he came to India , " said Kohli. " He was troubling the batsmen throughout and was a challenge to play in the middle. He was bowling in the right spots. Kudos to Vijay , the ball was turning square for an opener. " Before the series began , Rohit Sharma was asked if the Indians would go after Nathan Lyon. There were smirks all around , as if that was an obvious question. Rohit 's smile suggested it would be hard for the Indians to resist. " It depends on the situation , " he finally said. It was obvious the question of Nathan Lyon transforming into a big threat on Aussie pitches had not crossed his mind . With the ball too , India missed Ravichandran Ashwin , and it was one of Virat Kohli 's blunders to play Karn Sharma ahead of the established off-spinner. Kohli admitted he had misread the pitch. " That was my personal decision. Someone told me this drop-in pitch remains consistent throughout but it was turning square. No regrets , it was a plan I thought would work. I felt Karn was bowling better than the other spinners. " The point is now moot , with pace expected to do all the talking in the next Test at the Gabba. India , however , would do well to still be wary of Lyon . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
