Natural talent De Villiers thrills on record day The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Jan 18 , 2015 , 08.37PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 JOHANNESBURG : AB de Villiers may not be considered one of the genuine power-hitters of the game , but his record-breaking innings in Sunday 's second one-day international against West Indies at The Wanderers showed he is arguably the most skilled . The South African captain belted a century off 31 balls , five deliveries quicker than previous record-holder Corey Anderson against the same wilting West Indian attack last year . But there was not a slog to be seen as he manoeuvred himself around the crease to create the right angles to score , and used his incredible eye and quick hands to loft the ball through the thin Highveld air and over the boundary . Having sat through almost 39 overs as South Africa piled on 247-runs for the opening wicket , De Villiers promoted himself up the order . When he joined Hashim Amla in the middle , he told his fellow batsman that he was " going to have a look for one over. " That theory lasted only seconds as he slapped his first ball down the ground for four . When he took 20 runs from four balls in Andre Russell 's next over , he set himself up for a shot at the record for the quickest half-century and got there with two more sixes off opposing captain Jason Holder . Not content to take a breather , he struck the next ball for six too as a Wanderers crowd that have seen many special knocks from De Villiers before began to sense they were in for another treat . And he just kept going . West Indies tried varying the length , the line and the pace of their deliveries but it made no difference . As he neared the record for the fastest century , he used the same method to get past that milestone off the same unfortunate bowler . Two sixes to pass the record and the next ball over the boundary too as if to emphasise his dominance . There was little fuss at reaching the milestone either : A smile , a casual raise of the bat and hug for batting partner Amla . MISSED OPPORTUNITY If there could ever be a disappointment to come from such a brilliant innings , it is that De Villiers fell one run short of shattering another record . When he was caught by Russell , he was out for 149 from 44 deliveries. It meant he had missed out on also notching up the fastest 150 in ODI cricket , that record held by Australia 's Shane Watson off a relatively sedate 83 deliveries . But De Villiers does not care about that , if he did he would have taken an easy single. Instead he was caught on the cover boundary going for another six . When he first came on the international scene as a raw but talented 21-year-old in 2004 , he brashly stated his ambition was to be the best batsman in the world . There were more than a few raised eyebrows at the time , but on Sunday former England bowler Bob Willis summed up De Villiers ' standing in the sport . " I 've been saying for the last 30 years that Viv Richards has to be the best batsman of all time , even better than Sir Don Bradman in my book , " he said. " But I 'm going to have to reassess because this guy is something extraordinary. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
