Need bowlers to compete overseas : Shastri The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Oct 7 , 2014 , 11.17AM IST Shastri has resolved to make Raina discover a Test cricketer in him. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : The BCCI decided to appoint 'crisis man ' Ravi Shastri as Team India director after the Test series debacle in England not just to improve the side 's performance but also to polish its image , which suffered yet another dent because of another overseas hammering . On Monday , during a media interaction here , the former India all-rounder 'batted ' his heart out for his team , defending and praising his 'boys ' vigorously . For starters , he thinks there is nothing wrong with MS Dhoni 's captaincy , who he feels is hampered by lack of bowlers who can take 20 wickets for him in overseas conditions . " I do n't care who the captain is , if you ca n't take 20 wickets , no one can do anything , not even the coach. It does n't matter if you have big names in the team. Give him two experienced pacers who bowl well outside India , and he 'll be a different entity , " Shastri said . " When you know you ca n't take 20 wickets , you do n't have the bowlers to compete in those conditions , you start running out of ideas. You get defeated , at times , in the mind , thinking , where am I going to take those 20 wickets. " Shastri reiterated that under-fire India coach Duncan Fletcher was " a brilliant and a seasoned coach. " Why does the Zimbabwean stay aloof and unavailable to the media all the time ? " I 've told Fletcher he has got to smile. It 's the best way to please the press...talk to them once in while , " Shastri said in jest , while clarifying it was n't important who , amongst he , the coach or captain , was the 'boss ' of the team , as long as the team produced results . The new man in charge of Indian cricket has made a welcome resolve : To make the gifted Suresh Raina discover a Test cricketer in him . " He 's brilliant to watch , a class act. It 's a treat to watch him bat , even in the nets. My endeavor is to do something that would get him back into the Test team , " Shastri stressed . He has similar praise for the other 'class act ' in the Indian team , Rohit Sharma too. Shastri felt that star bat Virat Kohli , who had a disastrous England tour , would bounce back with a 'bang. ' He compared Kohli 's struggle against James Anderson to Brian Lara floundering against Glenn McGrath before fighting back . " It ( a slump ) has happened to the best players. A technical flaw can creep in during a series. He was up against bowlers who had the patience , experience and ability to exploit it . James Anderson was like a tiger on the prowl against him , he sensed his technical flaw and kept at it. Having said that , I know Virat. No one hurts more than him. No one has a better work ethic or works harder than him. I see him bouncing back big time. He 'll be a better player when he scores runs again , because this experience will stand him in good stead , " Shastri summarized . Defending the Indian team , Shastri said : " People have short memories in this country. Which team in the last four years can boast of a record of having won two World Cups , made the final of a third , reached No. 1 ranking in Test cricket. I believe in this team. I feel it will show results in a couple of years down the line. " He pointed out that apart from South Africa , no other international team was travelling well these days . He felt that the ICC must cut out T20 games and reduce ODIs during tours. He felt even the number of Tests should be reduced to three , instead of five , which worked to the advantage of a home side , and made the contest boring once the visitors were left struggling . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
