Need to scout new bowlers , admits Virat Kohli The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Jan 11 , 2015 , 09.41AM IST Indian captain Virat Kohli tosses the ball to fast bowler Umesh Yadav ( right ) on the first day of the fourth Test against Australia at the Sydney Cricket Ground. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Apart from the last day in both Adelaide and Sydney , this series has been all about the flat pitches and the two batting machines leading the sides . More than 5800 runs were scored , a world record in a four-Test series. It was hard work on both sides for the bowlers , who conceded 100-plus runs in an innings more than 23 times . But the inconsistency of the Indian seamers ensured the team could n't bag 20 wickets even once. Apart from Brisbane , Australia won all the tosses . The Indian batsmen responded to their 500-plus totals with 400-plus every time. The inconsistency of the attack was the primary reason for the 0-2 scoreline . Their performance annoyed new captain Virat Kohli enough on Saturday to suggest India should start scouting for new bowling talent . Kohli also suggested the fitness of the current lot was suspect , since their second and third spells were not penetrating enough . " The main criteria now will be to scout guys who we feel have potential to play in the future , and groom them and nurture them and monitor their fitness , consistency and skills. That 's how we want to develop our Test team , " said Kohli . " To win Test matches you need 20 wickets. The reason we do well at home is because we take those wickets. The spinners have bowled really well. The fast bowlers know how to bowl in home conditions with reverse swing . " Here , they get too excited with the bounce. We need to figure out which are the best areas to bowl to each batsman. Their consistency is something we really need to work on. You need to run up and pitch six balls on the same spot. " Ishant Sharma , the most experienced of the lot , had a good series by his standards but his wicket-taking capabilities are suspect. Umesh Yadav , Mohammad Shami and Varun Aaron have been incapable of bowling to their fields and leaked runs . The frustrated captains - Kohli and Dhoni - have reacted by setting constantly shifting , left-of-centre fields which have n't helped the cause . Kohli suggested fitness levels were also a factor. " We 've generally done well in ODI cricket because we know how to bowl within a time span and you know how many overs to bowl. In Tests you need more composure. Even if you bowl five overs poorly , it changes the game. You get tired in Test cricket. " Before this Test , Kohli had said " people are too harsh on our bowlers and this is a young team " . But a look at the opposition ranks reveals the presence of the 24-year-old Josh Hazlewood , who was a picture of consistency and menace throughout , particularly in Sydney . " The skill is there ( in Indian bowlers ) , or they would n't be playing here , " said Kohli. " You need to say to yourself , 'I 'm tired , but I need to take two wickets for my team , so I need to bowl at the same pace as my first spell. ' That 's something we 've not been able to do. At Lord 's Ishant did it for us. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
