Never thought of replacing Cook : Moores The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 12 , 2014 , 09.15AM IST Moores was all praise for the manner in which Cook dealt with the pressure. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MANCHESTER : England coach Peter Moores has revealed that he had never contemplated replacing Alastair Cook as captain in spite of his poor form and concerns about his leadership skills . Talking after England 's victory over India , Moores said : " No , because when you are close to somebody you get an idea of their will to do the job. You ca n't say to anybody you are definitely going to be the England captain. It does n't work like that. It is a high-pressure job and you are dictated by the results . " Leadership is about getting people to follow you and create opportunities for them to create something. Cook is very much into that. He wants the team to grow and create opportunities. " Moores was all praise for the manner in which Cook dealt with the pressure . " I think the significant point was when he came out and said he was in it for the long haul. If people did n't want him there , that was fine , he would move on , but he made pretty public his desire to captain England , " said Moores. " After that , the more criticism he got , the more steely and determined he got , " he added . Asked how he rated Cook as a captain , Moores said : " Tactically , he is developing quickly as a captain and he has great values as a leader. It is difficult to ask somebody else to do something you would n't do yourself , but there is nothing Alastair would n't do for the team . The Broad picture The England coach was categorical that Stuart Broad will play at The Oval , if he is 100 per cent fit . " If he is fit and there is no risk to him , and he is up for playing , we will play him. It is a big game and we want to play him. He may end up playing in one of those football face masks , I do n't know , but I think he 'll want to play. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
