New Zealand need McCullum at helm to keep winning : Fleming The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Apr 2 , 2015 , 02.14PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Brendon McCullum 's inspirational captaincy has lifted New Zealand and the flamboyant batsman should continue leading the side in all three formats at least until next year 's World Twenty20 , former captain Stephen Fleming said . Since last year , New Zealand at home have won Test series against India , West Indies and Sri Lanka and dazzled in 50-overs and breezed into their maiden World Cup final at Melbourne . Great rivals Australia won the title but for six weeks , the Black Caps displayed an aggressive brand of cricket which earned them eight successive victories and the admiration of millions . Former captain Daniel Vettori and seamer Kyle Kills have since retired but Fleming hoped that the 33-year-old McCullum will stick around to continue the " good work " . " I hope he opts to carry on in charge of the side across all formats for the foreseeable future , " Fleming wrote in his column on the International Cricket Council 's website on Thursday . " He has lifted the Black Caps up by their bootstraps ... and he ended the World Cup with his position water-tight . " He is a positive leader who leads by example and although Kane Williamson is regarded as the next cab off the rank in terms of captaincy , it would be ideal if McCullum stayed on to continue the work he and coach Mike Hesson have begun , at least until the end of that ICC World Twenty20 at the earliest. " The World Twenty20 will be held in India next year and former wicketkeeper McCullum , who has long complained of back problems , said throughout the New Zealand summer that he was treating every game as his last . Fleming , New Zealand 's most successful captain , feels the team 's recent achievements have drawn a huge number of fans in a country where rugby is the number one sport . " It has created a euphoria and an awareness of cricket that has not ( been ) existing in New Zealand since 1992 but now it is important that the legacy... is built upon , " the 42-year-old wrote . " We have to hope the team 's success and the fact its profile has now grown in a major way will provide New Zealand Cricket 's administrators with more clout around negotiating future commitments for the national side. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
