New Zealand thrash South Africa , Zimbabwe stun Sri Lanka The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 11 , 2015 , 06.47PM IST New Zealand hammered home their status as World Cup dark horses. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : New Zealand hammered home their status as World Cup dark horses with an emphatic 134-run warm-up win over South Africa on Wednesday while whipping boys Zimbabwe stunned Sri Lanka by seven wickets . Just three days out from the start of the marathon six-week event , both South Africa -- who rested match-winners Hashim Amla and Dale Steyn -- and Sri Lanka looked lacklustre . In Christchurch , Kane Williamson top-scored with a 53-ball 66 , dotted with nine fours. Skipper Brendan McCullum smashed a typically muscular 59 off 45 balls with seven fours and a six . Their efforts lifted the home side to an impressive 331-8 in 50 overs. Seamers Vernon Philander , Wayne Parnell and Kyle Abbott all took two wickets each but strike bowler Morne Morkel went wicketless , conceding 31 runs off seven overs . New Zealand pace bowler Trent Boult showed the vaunted Proteas attack how to make the most of the conditions at the Hagley Oval with the 22-year-old returning 5-51 off 9.2 overs . It could have been more embarrassing for South Africa but JP Duminy ( 80 not out ) and Philander ( 57 ) lifted their side from 62-6 with a 121-run seventh-wicket stand , which put a little gloss on the gloomy picture . " We are not too fazed about the result. It 's about time in the middle , and overs under the belt , " said Duminy after his team were bowled out for a paltry 197 . Come Sunday , when South Africa face Zimbabwe in their first pool match at Hamilton , " we will be ready to go -- we wo n't read too much into this " , he insisted . " Everybody got a bit out of it. It 's nice to take wins but we are happy with where we are. " Boult said the game helped his chances of selection for a starting spot on Saturday when New Zealand open their World Cup campaign at home to 1996 champions Sri Lanka . " There 's a good amount of competition amongst us bowlers. I enjoyed today , it was coming out well at both ends of the wicket , " said Boult . " We wanted to get the most out of the opportunity. " Zimbabwe warmed up for Sunday 's clash against South Africa with a shock seven-wicket win over Sri Lanka at Lincoln . Sri Lanka , who were also World Cup runners-up in 2007 and 2011 , posted a challenging 279-8 in 50 overs with Dimuth Karunaratne top-scoring on 58 and Jeevan Mendis making 51 . Slow left-arm bowler Sean Williams helped apply the brakes with 3-35 in 10 overs . In reply , Hamilton Masakadza smashed 117 not out at almost a run-a-ball with eight fours and three sixes . He and skipper Brendan Taylor ( 63 ) put on 127 for the third wicket before Masakadza and Williams ( 51 not out ) added an undefeated 119 for the fourth . Sri Lanka used nine bowlers but could still not make significant inroads . Zimbabwe 's run chase was so easy that there were still 28 balls left when they hit the winning runs . At the Sydney Cricket Ground , Pakistan captain Misbah-ul-Haq hit 91 and Umar Akmal 65 as the 1992 champions beat England by four wickets . England made 250-8 in their 50 overs with Joe Root scoring 85 and Gary Ballance contributing 57 . Pakistan reached their target with seven balls to spare after Misbah and Akmal put on 133 for the fifth wicket . Pakistan begin their World Cup against old rivals India in Adelaide on Sunday . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
