New Zealand vs South Africa : Eden will be hot as hell The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 23 , 2015 , 11.37AM IST New Zealand 's Brendon McCullum ( centre ) smiles during training ahead of their 2015 Cricket World Cup semifinal match against South Africa. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 For the Kiwis , hope has turned into belief that they can go all the way , but there 's South Africa in the way. Both the teams have been serious underachievers of world cricket , but right from the man on the street to the many experts covering the game -- the general feeling is that the winner of this semifinal will start as favourites in the final next Sunday . That 's , however , still some distance off and now all eyes are on the cauldron of Kiwi cricket - the Eden Park. It was the same venue where New Zealand posted their dramatic one-wicket win against Australia three weeks back , and now it 's a matter of repeating that show. Both teams boast of some excellent power-hitters who are in great form. But the battle may come down to how the pacers of the two teams perform on a pitch which provides true bounce and hardly any lateral movement . Trent Boult , the New Zealand pace bowling sensation will hold the key , while for the South Africans it will be down to Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel and Kyle Abbott. Vernon Philander , though , is fit and that has left the South African team management in a quandary. They do n't want to drop Abbott , who has been very consistent , but Philander adds to the batting depth as well. Sources close to the team management informed that it 's a decision that will be taken only on the eve of the game . For the Kiwis , it 's more straight-forward. Boult and Tim Southee will lead the attack , the back-up being provided by Adam Milne and Corey Anderson. Boult , right now , is the highest wicket-taker of the World Cup with 19 scalps and his swing at the top is making a big difference for New Zealand . " South Africa are going to be a huge challenge. We 'll scout them and prepare for that game as we have for the others. We need to sit down and plan and come out all guns blazing on Tuesday , " Boult , who was quite magnificent against West Indies on Saturday , said . The Kiwi pacers Boult and Southee know the right length to bowl on this Eden Park pitch and that has led to their success on this pitch. Interestingly , New Zealand have beaten South Africa three of the four times they have met in the World Cup and that 's also going to give them the confidence . But this South African unit seems to be driving home the point that they have not come here with any baggage. Steyn , sometime back , was reminded of the possibility of this semifinal at Eden Park and he had said : " We beat New Zealand the last time we played here , right ? So we know how to play here. " The very recent memories of Eden Park , though has n't been very good for South Africa. They lost the game against Pakistan in the group stages , but that seems forgotten. The resounding victory against Sri Lanka has given them the confidence to break their World Cup jinx and it looks good to be one heck of a contest on Tuesday . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
