No choke this time : South Africa goes easy on cricket team The author has posted comments on this article AP | Mar 25 , 2015 , 03.34PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 STELLENBOSCH ( South Africa ) : Led by unexpected praise from the nation 's outspoken sports minister , South Africa went easy on its cricket team after another painful loss at the World Cup . A long history of failure at the tournament has often put the Proteas at the sharp end of stinging criticism from the demanding media and fans back home . But sports minister Fikile Mbalula said he was still proud of the team after its nail-biting loss to New Zealand in the semifinals on Tuesday . Mbalula is famous for launching a scathing attack on South Africa 's soccer team after a loss in a tournament last year , calling them " a bunch of losers' ' and " useless , unbearable individuals.'' He was kinder to the cricketers . " You made us proud as a nation as you fought until the last minute,' ' Mbalula said. " You are winners in my eyes and I 'm sure the whole nation agrees.'' Wednesday 's newspapers reflected the players ' bitter disappointment - with some in tears after the elimination - but there was no mention of " chokers' ' - the dreaded term previously given to the team for losing crucial World Cup games . " World Cup tears' ' said the Afrikaans-language Die Burger newspaper with a photograph of fast bowler Dale Steyn lying flat out on his back on the pitch. The Times called it " A crying shame,' ' and the tabloid Daily Sun even called them " brave Proteas.'' Most newspapers blamed South African bowling and fielding errors for allowing New Zealand to pass the victory target of 298 , but a few alluded to a sense of injustice after South Africa 's innings was interrupted by rain while going well , and then shortened , and its total recalculated according to cricket 's complex Duckworth-Lewis formula . South Africa coach Russell Domingo felt the total New Zealand was chasing should have been higher than 298 , feeding some of the media 's questions over the calculation . South Africa has rarely been able to accept its World Cup eliminations as straightforward . In the 1992 semifinals it felt it was given an impossible task after rain led to a recalculation ; in 1999 South Africa was eliminated in the semifinals on run rate after a tie with Australia ; and in 2003 the team itself made a mistake with the formula and finished a run short of progressing . Most newspapers noted with despair that Grant Elliott , the man who played the match-winning innings for New Zealand , was born in South Africa. He left for New Zealand after deciding he 'd probably never make the South African team . " World Cup taunts SA once again,' ' The Times said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
