Left staring at heavy losses after the pullout , the powerful BCCI on Tuesday took a " unanimous " decision , in just under an hour , to suspend bilateral ties . Page 1 of 4 HYDERABAD : West Indies cricket plunged into further uncertainty and was left staring at financial ruin after an incensed Board of Cricket in India ( BCCI ) unanimously decided at its working committee meeting on Tuesday to suspend all bilateral ties with the West Indies Cricket Board ( WICB ) . West Indies abruptly pulled out in the middle of an India series last week to sort out a payment dispute involving players , the players ' association and the board . Left staring at heavy losses after the pullout , the powerful BCCI on Tuesday took a " unanimous " decision , in just under an hour , to suspend bilateral ties. West Indies players , however , will still be allowed to play in the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) . A BCCI statement did not clarify the quantum of damages it would seek but mentioned initiating legal proceedings. India were expected to play five series against West Indies in the next eight years , including four visits to the Caribbean , all potentially huge money-making exercises for the WICB , which has emerged as the biggest loser in the entire episode . After having hastily arranged a five-match ODI series with Sri Lanka in November instead , sources said BCCI officials were still calculating losses. " The figures are being worked out and it will take some time before we get an accurate picture. But it could be over Rs 200 crore , " a BCCI source said . " All bilateral tours between BCCI and WICB stand suspended , " said a terse note from BCCI secretary Sanjay Patel. " BCCI will initiate legal proceedings against WICB due to the abrupt cancellation of this tour. " Board sources said effort was being made to minimize losses to those associations which missed out on hosting a game because of the pullout. Cuttack , Hyderabad , Kolkata and Ahmedabad , which were to host the West Indies , will now host ODIs against Sri Lanka instead . Bangalore , which was to host the second Test , missed out as Ranchi got the nod . " There seems to be some understanding and that 's why Ranchi was given the ODI instead of Bangalore , " sources said , adding : " Members were concerned about the loss of t revenue to hosting associations. They wanted to look at ways of minimizing losses. Lanka 's offer was appreciated . " Members were also concerned about the spectators who were looking forward to the series. They felt that the board can not let down the fans. Asking Sri Lanka to play an ODI series was the best way to handle the crisis. " On whether the decision to snap bilateral ties would lead to changes in the Future Tours Programme ( FTP ) , sources said the matter was for the International Cricket Council ( ICC ) to decide. The working committee also gave its nod for the Indian team to tour Sri Lanka in July-August 2015 as a reciprocal gesture . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
