Tri-Series , 3rd ODI : India Crash to Second Successive Defeat , England Take Bonus Point Tri-Series , 3rd ODI : India Crash to Second Successive Defeat , England Take Bonus Point India crashed to their second successive defeat in the tri-series after Ian Bell led England 's successful chase of 154 at the Gabba . Last updated on Tuesday , 20 January , 2015 17 : 12 IST Total Shares Ian Bell and James Taylor celebrate England 's 9-wicket win over India . © AP Melbourne : Pacemen Steven Finn produced a career-best performance to lead England to a nine-wicket thrashing of India in both countries ' second outing in a triangular one-day series in Brisbane on Tuesday. ( Scorecard | Blog ) India 's decision to bat first backfired when they were dismissed for just 153 in 39.3 overs in the one-day international , with Finn exploiting the Gabba 's pace and bounce to claim five wickets for 33 . In reply , England cruised to victory in just 27.3 overs giving them a much-needed confidence boost ahead of the World Cup in Australia and New Zealand that kicks off next month . Their recent one-day form has been very poor , but they were never stretched with the bat as they finished on 156 for one , with opener Ian Bell unbeaten on 88 and James Taylor on 56 as they notched their first win under new captain Eoin Morgan . Stuart Binny , who top-scored for India with 44 in his return to the side , claimed the only wicket to fall , that of opener Moeen Ali for eight . After losing to Australia on Sunday , the Indian batsmen struggled to cope with the lively wicket . Finn , on the other hand , made the most of it to claim his first five-wicket haul in 49 one-day internationals , including a number of prized Indian scalps . He did most of his damage to the top order , as India lost their way after being in a sound position at 57-1 . Seamer James Anderson , returning to the English side after injury , claimed the first wicket , removing the struggling Shikhar Dhawan for one , before Ajinkya Rahane and Ambati Rayudu steadied the Indian cause with a 56-run stand . The fall of Rahane , caught by Taylor from the bowling of Finn on 33 , sparked the first of two collapses during the innings . Finn then claimed Rayudu , who scored 23 , and Virat Kohli , who managed just four , as India slumped to 67 for five . Captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni and the recalled Binny put on 70 to revive India 's hopes briefly , before Finn again struck twice in quick succession to turn the match . He had Dhoni caught behind by Jos Buttler on 34 , the wicketkeeper 's fifth dismissal of the innings , and India folded , losing their last five wickets for just 16 runs . Finn picked up his fifth scalp when he bowled Axar Patel for nought . Anderson ran through the tail to finish with impressive figures of four for 18 from 8.3 overs . Story first published on : Tuesday , 20 January 2015 09 : 59 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
