No hard feelings , says Darren Sammy The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Oct 3 , 2014 , 12.22PM IST The 30-year-old was sacked as Test skipper earlier this year in a rather humiliating fashion. It prompted Darren Sammy to immediately announce retirement from the format. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : You wo n't get a more happy-go-lucky cricketer , or individual than Darren Sammy . Come what may , you ca n't wipe away that smile off his face. He is also incredibly down to earth and has no illusions about himself . He may not be anywhere close to being as gifted as some of his peers or former West Indian players , but none embodies the carefree Caribbean spirit more than him . The 30-year-old was sacked as Test skipper earlier this year in a rather humiliating fashion. It prompted Sammy to immediately announce retirement from the format . However , ask him if there is any bitterness in his heart and he says , " Oh no ! I am enjoying my life , my cricket at the moment. When I retired , I said that the team was moving in a new direction and they had no space for me. I have always said that cricket is not about me. It is time for us to move on with a new captain and I am happy. No regrets. I am just happy to still be playing One-Dayers and T20s for the West Indies. " During an interaction on Thursday , Sammy stressed that the dressing room atmosphere post this episode has been 'good'. " Life is funny. Once you are in there you play together , but in life , everybody moves on. It was a period for them to move on past me as Test captain and it is a new direction. We are just finding ways to take West Indies cricket back at the top. No hard feelings. Hakuna Matata maan , no worries , " he says . Clearly , Sammy seems to be feeling lighter without the responsibility. He only leads the T20 side now , with Denesh Ramdin being elevated as Test captain and Dwayne Bravo in charge of the ODI side . " ( Being ) Captain of West Indies is tough. Captaining any side is tough but in our case , we have players from different islands , backgrounds and culture. I do n't miss it , but I continue to be a leader in the team and play my role , " he says . Life has taught him to not plan or think too much. Replying to a question on whether he would want to bat higher in the ODIs , he says : " I must first get a place in the XI. Our side has got so many guys , they have got myself , ( Andre ) Russell , ( Kieron ) Pollard , ( Dwayne ) Bravo , Ramdin , who has been batting well for the last two years. We have got a lot of options in our team. It will be a tough 11 to pick ! " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
