Noida 's cricket crazies flock to post office for World Cup stamps The author has posted comments on this article Niharika Lal , TNN | Feb 22 , 2015 , 06.29PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NOIDA : For a true-blue cricket fan , just being glued to the TV set throughout the match is n't enough. They want to soak in the game in every possible way . The New Zealand postal department has released the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 stamps , of which the Indian postal department has procured over 1 lakh souvenir sheets . The Noida postal circle has also got over a hundred copies of the same. No wonder then , that the phone started ringing at the Sector 16 post office asking about the stamp sheets even before its release . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 City 's Cricket fans rushing to the post office Sanjay Sharma , the head postmaster at Sector 19 , says , " The stamp sheets are available only in select post offices , and the Sector 16 post office is one of them. The sheet is priced at Rs 400. But we are also offering a discount of 20 % on the purchase of five sheets. Not just philatelists , but avid cricket fans are also buying these. But anyone who wants to purchase them should hurry up , as the stock is limited and the new stock has been available since yesterday. " Rajbeer Sinha , a bank employee who came to buy a sheet of these stamps , tells us , " My 12-year-old son is a huge cricket fan. When I got to know that the stamps are available here , I decided to buy one for his birthday , which is next month. " " These stamps are a way to make cricket 's grandest event even more special and memorable , " says Rajbeer. Prakriti Verma , a college student , tells us , " I am a die-hard cricket fan and I like collecting such stamps. I also have a stamp of Sachin ( Tendulkar ) which was released when he had retired. I wish the postal department brings out more such stamps. " Customised stamp sheets for India The stamp sheet which has been titled '14 Teams , One Champion ' also bears the official 2015 Cricket World Cup logo in the centre. The set of stamps consists of 14 cricket ball-shaped stamps , representing the teams playing for the World Cup. For Indian cricket fans , there 's a cherry on the cake. The New Zealand postal department has customised the sheets sent to India. Just below the World Cup trophy , it reads 'ICC Cricket World Cup Champion 1983 & 2011- India'. Manish Sharma , an engineering aspirant , says , " I have been coming to the post office since the last two days , but I was told the stock is over. They have called me again tomorrow. The World Cup is one of the biggest sporting events and the cricket lovers like me will be more than happy to collect a token like this. " And get it online too ! If you do n't want to go to a post office or find that the post office has run out of stock , do n't worry - the stamps are available online as well ! The post officials tell us that all you need to do is log in to the official website of the postal department and order the World Cup stamp online . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
