No Indian batsman among top six scorers at World Cup 2015 The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Mar 16 , 2015 , 07.43PM IST Shikhar Dhawan is seventh among the top run-getters of the quadrennial event with 337 runs from six innings. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : In a testimony to the collective effort that has marked India 's all-conquering show in the Cricket World Cup so far , no Indian batsman features among the top six run scorers though pacer Mohammad Shami occupies the second spot among the top wicket-takers with 15 victims . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Known for producing a steady flow of top batting performers over the years , it is a rare sight not to find an Indian batsman in the top six list despite the team being in sublime form . However , the battling burden has been shared between the likes of Shikhar Dhawan , Virat Kohli , Suresh Raina and captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni . Dhawan is seventh among the top run-getters of the quadrennial event with 337 runs from six innings at an average of 56.16 and has become the fourth Indian after Sachin Tendulkar , Rahul Dravid and Sourav Ganguly to score two hundreds in the same World Cup . Kohli is at No.11 with 301 runs. But his splendid average of 75.25 is the fifth best among batsmen , who have scored 300 or more in the pool stage . Leading the pack is Sri Lankan veteran Kumar Sangakkara , who has so far amassed 496 runs from six knocks at an astonishing average of 124. He has also hit four consecutive centuries -- a world record . When it comes to bowling , India 's pace attack is headed by the 25-year-old Shami , who has swung his way to the second spot in the list of highest wicket-takers with 15 wickets from five outings . The right-arm seamer has picked a wicket every 12.6 runs and has an excellent economy rate of 4.39 per over . Australia 's lanky left-arm pacer Mitchell Starc leads the table with 16 wickets from five contests at a fantastic average of 8.5 , giving away just 3.57 runs an over . The record for the highest individual score in World Cups , previously held by South African Gary Kirsten ( 188 not out ) , was demolished by a brutal Chris Gayle , who bludgeoned his way to 215 in a match for the West Indies against Zimbabwe at Canberra on February 24 . Zimbabwe 's Sean Williams and Pakistan 's Misbah-ul-Haq have hit most number of 50s in the group stages ( four each ) . England 's Steven Finn has got the only hat-trick of the mega event , against Australia at Melbourne . New Zealand pacer Tim Southee was at his lethal best when he single-handedly took apart the English batting line-up on a lively strip at the Wellington Regional Stadium on February 20 , pocketing figures of 7/33 , the third best in Cup history after two Australians -- Glenn McGrath 's 7/15 and Andy Bichel 's 7/20 in the 2003 edition . Credit also goes to South Africa 's talismanic skipper AB de Villiers , who now has the most sixes in the event ( 36 ) and the most in this year 's edition too ( 20 ) . The lowest score in the group stages was posted by the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) against India at Perth where they were skittled out for a paltry 102 at the WACA . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
