No Indian in ICC 's World Cup XI led by McCullum The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 30 , 2015 , 10.36AM IST Share on Linkedin The team was chosen by a select group of experts who were given the task of picking a balanced side on the basis of performances in the tournament. Statistics were used but were not the sole basis for selections. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 DUBAI : Not a single Indian cricketer found a place in the ICC 's World Cup XI which was dominated by runners-up New Zealand rather than champions Australia with Black Caps skipper Brendon McCullum as its captain . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The ICC team features five New Zealanders , including McCullum , despite their seven-wicket loss to Australia in the summit clash on Sunday. India , the defending champions , had bowed out after a semifinal loss to Australia . " McCullum was chosen as the captain following his aggressive , innovative and inspirational leadership during the 44-day tournament that was the cornerstone of his team 's progression to the final where it lost to Australia by seven wickets , " the ICC said in a statement . McCullum also scored 328 runs in nine matches with four half-centuries at a strike-rate of 188.50 . The team was chosen by a select group of experts who were given the task of picking a balanced side on the basis of performances in the tournament. Statistics were used but were not the sole basis for selections . In addition to McCullum , the side includes four New Zealanders -- Corey Anderson , Trent Boult , Martin Guptill , Daniel Vettori -- three Australians in Glenn Maxwell , Steven Smith and Mitchell Starc , two South Africans ( AB de Villiers and Morne Morkel ) , with Sri Lanka 's Kumar Sangakkara as wicketkeeper-batsman . Zimbabwe 's Brendan Taylor , who finished with 433 runs in six matches , was named as the 12th man . ICC general manager ( Cricket ) , Geoff Allardice , who chaired the panel , said Indian pacers Umesh Yadav and Mohammad Shami along with off-spinner R Ashwin were in the running . Virat Kohli ( centre ) and teammates react after Australia won their World Cup semifinal against India in Sydney. ( Reuters Photo ) " The panel had an extremely difficult choice of selecting a 12-member squad at the back of an outstanding tournament , highlighted by some eye-catching individual performances including two double-centuries , 38 centuries , two hat-tricks and 28 four-wicket hauls , " he said . " There were a number of other players that were discussed as possible selections in the team. These included batsmen Mahmudullah ( Bangladesh ) and Shaiman Anwar ( UAE ) , fast bowlers Umesh Yadav , Mohammad Shami ( both India ) , Wahab Riaz ( Pakistan ) and spinners Imran Tahir ( South Africa ) and R Ashwin ( India ) , " added Allardice . " But there were so many brilliant individual performances during the tournament that it was not possible to fit them into the team. The panel eventually came up with this side , which , in their view , was the most balanced outfit that is capable of beating any side on any given day. " Team of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 in batting order : Martin Guptill ( New Zealand ) , Brendon McCullum ( New Zealand , captain ) , Kumar Sangakkara ( Sri Lanka , wicketkeeper ) , Steven Smith ( Australia ) , AB de Villiers ( South Africa ) , Glenn Maxwell ( Australia ) , Corey Anderson ( New Zealand ) , Daniel Vettori ( New Zealand ) , Mitchell Starc ( Australia ) , Trent Boult ( New Zealand ) , Morne Morkel ( South Africa ) , Brendan Taylor ( Zimbabwe , 12th man ) . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews
