No one better than Sangakkara , says Jayasuriya The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 2 , 2015 , 10.55AM IST Sri Lanka Kumar Sangakkara celebrates scoring a century against England during their World Cup 2015 Pool A match in Wellington. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 WELLINGTON : It 's a rarity to be hailed as the No. 1 batsman in the world with a month to go for international retirement. But that 's exactly what 's happening to Kumar Sangakkara . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The left-hander smashed his second successive century of the World Cup on Sunday in Wellington and his former teammate Sanath Jayasuriya was prompt to doff his hat off for the champion . " There 's no one better than Sanga in the world at the moment. His presence is making all the difference , " Jayasuriya , the current chairman of selectors of Sri Lanka , told TOI while walking down to the dressing-room after the win . " He is doing everything correct and guiding the team. If he keeps on doing this , I think we can go all the way , " Jayasuriya said , before adding : " Sanga could easily have played a few more years. " Jayasuriya is not the only one who thinks that Sangakkara is the best in the business at the moment. Lahiru Thiramanne , who also scored a century on Sunday , said how well Sangakkara holds the Lankan batting together . " At the moment , he has to be the No. 1. Not only does he rotate the strike , he keeps hitting the boundaries as well and the pressure does n't come on us , " he said . Sanga did just that against England. He came in to bat when the asking rate was close to 7 , but the runs flowed from his bat to ensure an easy victory . " He completely takes the pressure away from you. With Sanga flowing like that , all I had to do was to bat through the innings , " Thirimanne said. It wo n't be too long though that Sangakkara would be guiding the Lankan batting. He gets asked about his imminent retirement and he said : " I am getting old and that too very quickly. But I am still enjoying the game and that 's the best part of it. " Sanga has always been a team-man and on Monday he spoke highly of Thirimanne. " This guy has batted from No. 1 to 9 in his career , but look how well he batted today. It was a tough chase and it would n't have happened had Thiri not batted the way he did , " Sangakkara said . Injured Herath to miss Oz game Sri Lankan spinner Rangana Herath is likely to miss their next game against Australia after be ing hit on his finger while trying to field off his own bowling on Monday . " He has split the skin of the inside of his spinning finger and will need at least 810 days to recover , " team manager Michael de Zoysa told reporters on Sunday. Offspinner Sachitra Senanayeke will take Herath 's place in the playing XI . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
