Sunil Gavaskar vs Wasim Akram : The Great Debate on Team India 's Bowling Plight Sunil Gavaskar vs Wasim Akram : The Great Debate on Team India 's Bowling Plight India suffered a humiliating nine-wicket loss to England at the Gabba on Tuesday. Former cricketers are divided on the ideal strategy for a 'rescue act.' Last updated on Tuesday , 20 January , 2015 19 : 00 IST Total Shares Fallen ? Stuart Binny in action against England in Brisbane . © AFP Following India 's crushing nine-wicket defeat to England , their second of the Tri-Series involving Australia , former cricket greats and keen observers of the game - Sunil Gavaskar and Wasim Akram - discussed and dissected India 's approach to the Tri-Series and the possible bowling combination for the upcoming World Cup , starting from February 14. ( 3rd ODI Scorecard | Report | Highlights ) In a post-match chat , both Gavaskar and Akram laid out their contrasting views on the proceedings with another former cricketer Sanjay Manjrekar playing 'devil 's advocate. ' ( Also read : Dhoni blasts batsmen after loss against England ) Here 's how the 'debate ' between the former Indian batsmen and the erstwhile Pakistan speedster went : On India 's listless performance : Sunil Gavaskar was a bit guarded in his criticism and said , " India should be worried but not too much. There is still a lot of experimentation going on. When it comes to the World Cup in February , MS Dhoni 's team , the defending champions , will go in with a different frame of mind. They will be far more confident. " " Right now , it looks like the team is happy just to get some time in the middle , which is not a good thing. Winning is a habit , but so is losing , " Gavaskar however observed . Wasim Akram was far more forthcoming in his scrutiny of India 's poor show. He said , " This was a below average performance from India. Nobody knew what was happening in the middle. This was a Tri-Series fixture , not a practice match. " Defending a paltry score of 153 , Dhoni threw the new-ball to militry-medium pacer Stuart Binny , which baffled Akram to a great extent . He said , " I was shocked when I saw Binny with the new ball after India scored just 153. The total was not defendable but it 's a situation when you have to get your main bowlers in. " On Virat Kohli 's batting position shuffle : Despite scoring most of his runs while batting at No.3 , Virat Kohli has moved himself down to the No. 4 position in the recent past. However , India 's man of the moment has not had success in the two ODIs of the series so far . Speaking on this shift , Gavaskar said , " I prefer him at No.3 because he has been so successful in that position. The thinking could be that he scored a few runs against Sri Lanka at home while batting at No. 4 , hence he is continuing at that spot. " Akram , however , felt the batting position was n't of any significance . " I heard Sanjay Manjrekar and many others talk a lot about Kohli 's batting position during commentary , but I feel it does n't matter if he bats and no. 3 or 4. The ball was bouncing and the batsmen had no plan. Rayudu , batting at No. 3 , played almost every shot possible at the start of his innings even when James Anderson and Steven Finn were generating a bit of extra bounce. " On World Cup combination for India : Gavaskar has often been critical of India 's current bowling attack for their inconsistency. Asked to name his combination for the World Cup , the former India skipper opted to go for utility players . He said , " I would take only two seam bowlers - Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Mohammed Shami - mainly because Bhuvneshwar can bat a bit too. I will also take Stuart Binny as my third seamer and include two spinners. " Manjrekar asked Gavaskar why he did n't even consider Ishant Sharma , who has done well in Tests recently and Umesh Yadav , who bowled well sporadically vs Australia in the previous ODI . Gavaskar explained , saying " Our current new ball bowlers will not be of any use if they do n't get you a fifer or three to four wickets because they go for a lot of runs. I would much rather have a bowler who can bat a bit. " Gavaskar also stressed on the importance of fielding , saying , " While naming my 15 for the World Cup , I had picked Mohit Sharma ahead of Ishant Sharma , mainly because Mohit is a better fielder. " Akram , speaking like a geniune fast bowler , differed in opinion gain . " In Australia , you need a bit of pace. I know Umesh has often been expensive but he is also the one who will get you wickets. Bhuvneshwar Kumar can swing the ball but he is too slow , bowling at 120-125 kmph. At that pace , it is easy for batsmen to negotiate any amount of swing. It will be Ishant Sharma , Mohammed Shami and Umesh Yadav for me. " While Akram and Gavaskar will continue to offer their highly-scrutinised analysis through the Tri-Series and during the World Cup , Dhoni & Co. will need to shrug off their poor form and regain winning momentum before their title defence of the showpiece event begins vs Pakistan on February 15 . Story first published on : Tuesday , 20 January 2015 17 : 00 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
