No regrets for whistleblower McCullum The author has posted comments on this article AFP | May 22 , 2014 , 10.33AM IST New Zealand skipper Brendon McCullum said he was shocked his evidence to a match-fixing probe was leaked. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 WELLINGTON : New Zealand skipper Brendon McCullum said on Thursday he was shocked his evidence to a match-fixing probe was leaked but had no regrets and maintained confidence in the International Cricket Council . McCullum said he stood by his evidence to the ICC , in which he reportedly told investigators that a high-profile cricketer dubbed " Player X " unsuccessfully attempted to recruit him into a match-fixing scam in 2008 . Taking a break from the Indian Premier League to be in New Zealand for the birth of his third child , McCullum said he was shocked to read the evidence he gave to the ICC in a British newspaper , describing his involvement in the investigation as long and stressful . But the batsman said he would continue to cooperate with the ICC as all players had a duty to fight corruption in the game . " There 's still a long way to go I think , " he told reporters in Christchurch. " Obviously it 's been a number of years and the next little while will probably be quite tough as well , but my involvement in the investigation is ongoing. " McCullum declined to comment when asked if Black Caps great Chris Cairns was Player X. Cairns this week acknowledged his name was being linked to Player X but strongly denied any involvement in corruption or match fixing . Despite the leak in Britain 's Daily Mail , McCullum said he would not hesitate to recommend to any player who found themselves in the same situation to report the matter to the ICC . " From the dealings I 've had with the ( ICC ) group I 've dealt with , I have confidence in them , " he said. " How the leak happened , I 'm not sure but I have confidence in them. " The ICC has launched an urgent investigation into the leak of testimony from McCullum , former batsman Lou Vincent and Vincent 's ex-wife Eleanor Riley . It has also stressed that there is no suggestion McCullum is under investigation and praised his cooperation with the corruption probe . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
