No sanction on Windies players in IPL The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Oct 18 , 2014 , 01.24PM IST West Indies players have played big roles in making their respective franchises powerful units in the tournament. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : The BCCI is furious at the manner in which the West Indies tour has been called off midway , but the Indian board is more upset with the West Indies Cricket Board ( WICB ) than the players. BCCI 's top officials are so angry that they are even planning to pull out from the tour of West Indies in 2015 . The board feels that WICB has been unable to handle the situation which has led to this unhappy situation. " All the players wanted was proper negotiation but the WICB has mismanaged it completely. It 's been an embarrassment for everybody that the series had to be cancelled midway. The board wo n't take it lying down , " a very senior BCCI official told TOI . One of the retaliatory measures can be a pullout from the away series scheduled next year , which can add to the financial woes of WICB. " The details of the series are yet to be finalized. We have to see what is to be done , " the source added . There 's speculation that the BCCI might not allow West Indies players in the forthcoming IPL , but the board top brass believes such an action will be unnecessarily harsh on the players. " We have the documents which suggest that the West Indian players ' salaries were getting reduced significantly. We do n't see much of a reason to penalize the players. The issue is that it 's an internal matter of the WICB which should have been handled much better , " the official added . Some of the top stars of the IPL - Kieron Pollard ( Mumbai Indians ) , Sunil Narine , Andre Russell ( KKR ) , Dwayne Smith , Dwayne Bravo ( CSK ) , Darren Sammy ( Sunrisers Hyderabad ) - are from the West Indies and have played big roles in making their respective franchises powerful units in the tournament . Lanka was kept on notice Sources revealed that soon after the trouble between the players and the West Indies board started , BCCI asked the Sri Lankan cricket board ( SLC ) to be ready to tour India. " We became apprehensive about something going wrong right before the first ODI in Kochi and we asked SLC to be ready for a situation like this , " the official revealed . Within three hours of the tour being called off , the BCCI ensured that the Sri Lankan team would be in India from November 1 for a five-match ODI series . Meanwhile , the BCCI have called for an emergency working committee meeting in Hyderabad on Monday. " Yes , we have called an emergency meeting in Hyderabad on the 21st to discuss the West Indies issue and see what we can do about it , " BCCI vice-president Rajeev Shukla said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
