No surprises in India 's World Cup squad The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Jan 7 , 2015 , 09.48AM IST Dhoni is the only surviving member from the disastrous 2007 World Cup sojourn. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Thanks to Roger Binny 's flight being stuck at the Bangalore airport , their meeting was stuck for around an hour-and-a half. But once it began , it did n't take longer than 20 minutes for the national selectors , joined by skipper MS Dhoni and coach Duncan Fletcher from Sydney via video conference , to pick the 15 players who would defend the World Cup for India in Feb-March Down Under , and 17 for the Tri-series preceding it , at the Board office here on Tuesday . As expected , the 'five wise men ' did n't heed popular sentiment and ignored 2011 World Cup hero Yuvraj Singh , leaving skipper MS Dhoni , Virat Kohli , R Ashwin and Suresh Raina as the only four members who have survived from India 's last World Cup campaign . Dhoni , in fact , is the only surviving member from the disastrous 2007 World Cup sojourn. How much the selectors are backing the youth to lift the Cup at the MCG on March 29 emerges from the fact that as many as 11 players in this team would be featuring in a World Cup for the first time. The selectors have decided to include Ravindra Jadeja , who , according to BCCI secretary Sanjay Patel , is recovering fast from a shoulder injury . " Jadeja is undergoing rehabilitation. He is doing wonderfully well. We had detailed discussion with BCCI physio ( Nitin Patel ) on his inclusion and we are confident that he will return to training within 10 days , " Patel said . Later , another BCCI official vouched for his improved fitness to this paper. " He has gone home ( Rajkot ) , and will begin throwing the ball from Thursday , " he said . Perhaps keeping the big grounds of Australia and the paucity of quality pacers in mind , the selectors have punted on India 's traditional strength , spin , while naming the squad. There are three spinners in the side -Jadeja , Ashwin and Axar Patel. It must 've been a day of 'mixed feelings ' for out-of-form opener Shikhar Dhawan . While a series of poor scores resulted in him being axed from the fourth Test against Australia in Sydney , he managed to clinch a World Cup spot . Clearly , the left-hander 's performance in the past two years -815 runs in 18 ODIs @ 47.94 in 2014 , and 1162 runs in 26 in 2013 helped him pip Murali Vijay , who has done well for India in Tests in the same period . " The selectors wanted to show consistency by backing players who 've been a part of the team and have performed well for the past couple of years , " said a source in the Board . Yuvraj 's claim , despite his three back-to-back hundreds in the Ranji Trophy , according to a source , played up more in the media than in the selectors ' minds. With the likes of Rohit Sharma , Ajinkya Rahane , Raina , Dhoni and Ambati Rayudu ( who will double up as the reserve wicketkeeper ) manning the batting department , making a spot for the 33-year-old left-hander was always going to be difficult . The real worry for India would be in the pace bowling department where form and fit ness both are an issue at the moment. Ishant Sharma missed the Sydney Test due to a 'niggle in the knee, ' while Bhuvneshwar Kumar , after missing out on the first three Tests Down Under , did n't appear 100 per cent in the fourth . Despite his wicket-taking ability , Mohammad Shami has the knack of being expensive , and Umesh Yadav has disappointed with his awry line and length. Stuart Binny has been chosen as the sole seam-bowling all-rounder in the outfit , but it is anyone 's guess whether he will figure in MS Dhoni 's XI. Stuart and Roger Binny will thus become the first father-son combination from India to feature in a World Cup squad . Mohit Sharma , who took a hat-trick against Delhi in the Ranji Trophy on Tuesday , and Dhawal Kulkarni are the additional members of the team for the Tri-series in Australia , which begins on January 16 . Dhoni has , more or less , got the team he would have wanted. It is now up to his boys to justify the captain 's faith. India play their first World Cup game against Pakistan on February 15 . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
