Australia Will Continue Aggressive Brand of Cricket , Says Brad Haddin Australia Will Continue Aggressive Brand of Cricket , Says Brad Haddin Despite David Warner being warned for getting too verbal on the field , Australian keeper Brad Haddin said the team will carry on their aggressive brand of cricket . Last updated on Wednesday , 21 January , 2015 16 : 27 IST Total Shares Warner and Rohit were involved in a mid-pitch fracas on Sunday © Reuters The criticism they are facing notwithstanding , Australia 's wicketkeeper-batsman Brad Haddin said that his team is quite comfortable playing a hard-nosed brand of cricket and would not be affected by the furore caused by David Warner 's latest code-of-conduct offence. ( Indian media slams 'motormouth ' David Warner ) Warner was fined 50 per cent of his match fee after a verbal clash with Indian batsman Rohit Sharma in their last one-day international at the MCG. ( David Warner defends 'speak English ' call to Rohit Sharma ) It was the Aussie opener 's second offence for the season and drew a stern warning from Cricket Australia chief James Sutherland , who told him to " stop looking for trouble. " ( After " English-Gate " " We have a clear message of where it 's all at , " Haddin said ahead of Friday 's tri-series game against England . " We know the brand of cricket we want to play and Davey 's no different to all of us. We 're out there to compete. The umpires are there to do their job and they 'll adjudicate on anything they see that 's unfit and not in the spirit of the game , " Haddin told Daily Telegraph . Haddin insisted that the Aussies would continue to play the way they have always played the game . " Every Australian team I 've played in respects the game of cricket and respects the opposition. We 're pretty comfortable with the way we 're playing , " said Haddin . Australia coach Darren Lehmann had said earlier this week that his boys would continue to play aggressive cricket . " If the ICC decides it 's not in the spirit of the game or we cross the line then they 'll come down on us , " Lehmann had said. " We 're always going to teeter pretty close to it. That 's the way we play. " Story first published on : Wednesday , 21 January 2015 14 : 24 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
