Nothing wrong with Pujara 's technique , says Kotak The author has posted comments on this article Ruchir Mishra , TNN | Jan 13 , 2015 , 11.43AM IST Cheteshwar Pujara , who was dropped for the first time in his Test career during Sydney Test , played an important role for India at Lord 's. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NAGPUR : Statistics do n't always reveal the true picture. Sometimes , small contributions play a major role in the victory than a fifty or hundred. In the last year or so , India 's sole victory came against England at the historic Lord 's. While Ajinkya Rahane 's fighting hundred , Ishant Sharma 's decisive spell , Murali Vijay 's excellent 95 , Bhuvneshwar 's Kumar 's all-round show and Ravindra Jadeja 's aggressive fifty down the order instantly come to the mind ; very few remember Cheteshwar Pujara 's contribution at the top . Pujara , who was dropped for the first time in his Test career during Sydney Test , played an important role for India at Lord 's. The Saurashtra run machine battled for nearly three hours in the first innings and two hours in the second to hold one end. The then Indian skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni had even acknowledged Pujara 's contribution after the match. " We lost a crucial toss and had to fight hard for those first one-two hours when there was moisture on the wicket. I felt that the openers did that with the No. 3 batsman ( Pujara ) and then we scored runs , " Dhoni had said . Unfortunately , Pujara could n't convert his starts after that. The dry run continued against Australia as well where he failed to carry on after Adelaide Test where he scored 73. A couple of bad decisions too did n't help his cause but Pujara did n't look totally out of sorts . " I was surprised when he was dropped in the Sydney Test. To me , he did n't play badly in both series ( England & Australia ) . I did n't remember Pujara giving away his wicket at any point of time. Every player goes through a bad patch and I think he will surely come out of this soon. He has it in him to be successful in any conditions , " says Saurashtra coach Sitanshu Kotak , who has seen Pujara grow from his junior days . After a second successive failure in away series , the critics had raised doubts about his technique in bowler-friendly conditions. However , Kotak rubbished all these talks. " One has to analyze Pujara 's rise. He broke into this Indian side after scoring runs for India 'A ' in same away conditions. He scored runs by tons in England for India 'A ' , he also scored in Australia and South Africa. He was successful during the Test series against South Africa against some quality bowling attack. If his technique was faulty he would have struggled earlier too , " Kotak said . India 'A ' coach Lalchand Rajput also batted for Pujara. " I told him that him that there 's no problem with his batting. It 's just that he is n't converting those starts and getting those big scores , which is a hallmark of Pujara He has always been compact. Virat ( Kohli ) also went through this patch and look how he has bounced back. Pujara will also come out of it. He did n't look out of sorts , " Rajput said . Rajput feels Pujara is still the right man for the No.3 spot. " He is still our best batsman at No. 3. I have seen him from his junior days. He is leaving the ball well , getting through that crucial period but not carrying on from there. It happens to any batsman. I am sure he will learn from this and will become better player , " Rajput said . With India playing there next Test series against Bangladesh in June , 'Test specialist ' Pujara has wasted no time to regain his touch and confidence back. It 's littler wonder that he has made himself available for Saurashtra for the remaining Ranji Trophy matches . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
