Not such an open-and-shut case for India The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Dec 8 , 2014 , 10.53AM IST Dhawan and Vijay have n't been scoring runs together and that has hurt India at the top. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : India are looking to win a Test series in Australia but the team 's openers Shikhar Dhawan and Murali Vijay , a study in contrast both on and off the field , are looking to set much smaller targets . For starters , a 50-run partnership at the top of the order would be nice . Bringing that about might be tougher than it should be. The last time India 's openers posted a 50-plus stand in a Test match away from home was way back in July 2011 , when Abhinav Mukund and Gautam Gambhir posted 63 against England at Lord 's. Vijay and Dhawan are the ones to have come closest , with 49 runs at Trent Bridge earlier this year . But their pairing abroad has been distinctly under par. In 14 completed innings away , they have stitched together 314 runs at 22.42. It 's not that the two have n't been scoring runs : It 's just that they have n't been scoring runs together , and that has hurt India at the top. Australia might be a final chance to get their act together before the selectorial tinkering starts all over again . Dhawan , for one , is n't a firm believer in either statistics or trends. Sometimes , his too-casual exterior seems a carefully crafted mask , a coping mechanism against the vagaries of form and criticism. When the mask slips and one-liners dry up , Dhawan can appear as ferociously competitive as some of his more intense teammates . " Just because it has n't been done before ( by us ) does n't mean we can not do it , " he says , " Experts say what they think. Whenever I 'm making a mistake I 'm open to change. Like in England , when I could n't score much , it was a great learning curve. It made me a better player. " Dhawan was an ugly sight in England , poking and prodding in his brief stints in the middle , while Murali Vijay was a revelation. Dhawan , however , got some runs in New Zealand , and says , " I really try to enjoy both success and failure. I try to listen to different opinions and think if it 's gon na work for me. You 've got to get used to the situation and the bounce ( in Australia ) . That 's the most important thing. " Modern cricketers dislike discussing technical shortcomings in public , and all Dhawan will venture to say is that Australia is his second home , with his wife hailing from Melbourne , and that he feels more comfortable here. " I dislike the travel , it 's too far from India , " he says . Dhawan is , as cricketers like to say , a " confidence-player " , someone who does n't like to be reminded too much about complicated things like his awkward fending away of short balls or reluctance to use the depth of the crease , something Mohammad Azharuddin pointed out at the beginning of the year . It 's here that he can pick a feather out of Murali Vijay 's thinking cap. The more cerebral of the two , and also the more successful away from home , Vijay too has quite a few chinks to iron out , notably his backfoot play . But he has the better technique. " If you are in good nick , it ' going to help because it rubs off on the team. That 's what I learnt in England. That 's what I want to give the team. Both teams are depending on the start. Personally I 'm ready. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
