Now , England look to nail visitors with pace , bounce The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 3 , 2014 , 06.33AM IST James Anderson , who after picking up the Man-of-the-Match award in the third Test , said that he was desperate to play on his home ground at Old Trafford. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MANCHESTER : There appears to be no end to India 's woes. After ICC judicial commissioner Gordon Lewis on Friday set England pacer James Anderson free to bowl - and sledge - in the remaining two matches of the Test series , it has been learnt that the pitch at the Old Trafford will have more pace and bounce than any other surface that MS Dhoni and his boys have encountered so far . Lancashire curator Matt Merchant 's work has been hindered by the weather. It has not stopped raining since Friday and with a T20 quarterfinal match between Lancashire and Glamorgan held up due to wet conditions , the pitch has largely remained under covers. Merchant is still hoping to produce a fast and bouncy surface . Lancashire Cricket director Mike Watkinson is over the moon to have " home boy " Anderson back and firing. " Having an Old Trafford Test match and Jimmy not being available for a reason like that would have been unthinkable , " Watkinson told the Manchester Evening News. " He has the pace where he can put the short one in and he can swing it both ways. He is a real handful , " he added . The England team management , which saw it as India 's tactic to have the rival team 's best bowler thrown out of the series , was elated to have Anderson available. The 32-year-old pacer has taken 16 wickets in three Tests , most by any bowler on either side in the series . Anderson , who after picking up the Man-of-the-Match award in the third Test said that he was desperate to play on his home ground at Old Trafford , will have Yorkshire pacer Liam Plunkett to share the new ball . Plunkett , one of the quickest of the current crop of England pacers , was left out of at the Ageas Bowl by skipper Alastair Cook , but with Chris Jordan disappointing with his lack of control , Plunkett is primed for a comeback . It will also be a homecoming of sorts for Peter Moores , who used to be Lancashire 's coach before taking charge of England. Moores has assured that there will be no let-up in intensity and is confident that Stuart Broad will be fit despite his troublesome knee . Indian players have been given three days off and are not likely to get into the nets before Monday . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
