N Srinivasan takes over as ICC chairman The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jun 26 , 2014 , 11.53AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Suspended Indian cricket chief N Srinivasan was on Thursday appointed as the new ICC chairman at the world body 's annual conference . The powerful 69-year-old industrialist was elected despite being suspended by India 's Supreme Court as the country 's cricket chief after being named in a damning report into corruption allegations in the Indian Premier League . Srinivasan was nominated by the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) for global cricket 's top position and will take charge following the ICC Annual Conference in Melbourne this weekend . " It is an honour to be confirmed as the chairman of the International Cricket Council , " Srinivasan said . " I will leave no stone unturned in trying to strengthen the pillars and foundations of our sport , both on and off the field . " I want to ensure that cricket retains and grows its popularity , and that the ICC plays a leading role in this global growth. " He added : " I want to see more strong teams in international cricket. For this to be achieved , we all need to work hard to develop local talent in our countries. " Srinivasan was among 13 people named in a report into corruption claims in the Indian Premier League Twenty20 competition , which has been embroiled in allegations of illegal betting and spot-fixing , including against his son-in-law . Srinivasan said that rather than being suspended , he had voluntarily stepped aside as BCCI chairman . " I 've done nothing wrong , my conscience is very clear and there is no taint on me , " Srinivasan told a media conference as his appointment was announced . Srinivasan 's ascension to the head of the ICC follows controversial changes last February to the governance of the global body , which handed the majority of the powers and revenue to the sport 's " big three " nations -- India , Australia and England . Srinivasan becomes the first ICC chairman , replacing outgoing Australian Alan Isaac , who served a two-year term as ICC president . Mustafa Kamal will now become the 11th president of the ICC . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
