Number 's up for World Cup superstitions The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 17 , 2015 , 12.59PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Cricket is a game of numbers , of runs and wickets , averages and strike rates , all examined in mind-boggling detail . But for Pakistan 's Umar Akmal and Haris Sohail , the crucial figure is the one on their backs . They are just two players whose superstitions have influenced their choice of shirt numbers at the tournament . Akmal wears the number three jersey rather than his regular squad of number of 96 . The 24-year-old wicketkeeper/batsman , who has handed over the gloves at the World Cup to Sarfraz Ahmed after a poor stretch of form behind the stumps , said he acted on the advice of his 'Pir ' or spiritual adviser . However , he did n't get off to the best of starts with the bat at the World Cup , dismissed for nought against old rivals India before making a tournament best of 59 against the West Indies . Oddly , Sarfraz , who is not known to have sweated too much over his shirt number -- 54 incidentally -- has thrived in his two games , scoring 49 against South Africa , and taking six catches , before hitting an undefeated 101 opening the innings in the crucial win over Ireland on Sunday . Surprise call-up Haris Sohail changed his number to 89 instead of 80 and has enjoyed knocks of 70 against the UAE and 36 in the game against India . He was also out for nought against West Indies and managed only three on Sunday in the Ireland game . His change of shirt number did little for his composure after claiming he had seen a ghost in his Christchurch hotel on the eve of the competition 's two-match warm-up series against New Zealand . Team manager Naveed Akram Cheema said Sohail was " visibly shaken " and spent the rest of the night in the coach 's room . One of his Twitter followers wrote : " You 've faced down Shaitaan ( the devil ) , the Kiwis should be easy. Best wishes. " Another Pakistan stalwart , Mohammad Hafeez was reported by local media as having " run from pillar to post " to get the shirt number eight used by former Pakistan captain , Inzamam-ul-Haq . Maybe Hafeez should have walked rather than run as an ankle injury forced his withdrawal from the World Cup . Meanwhile , Mahendra Singh Dhoni , who led India to the 2011 World Cup , wears the number seven because he was born on the seventh of July -- the seventh month . " It 's just that I always felt seven was very special for me. So it is not superstition. I just love the number seven , " said Dhoni . " It is a very neutral number according to astrologers. It does n't have a very positive side or a negative side. It is all about yourself. If you have a positive mind and if you are working hard then the results will be in your favour , " said Dhoni . He has also named his own brand of fragance " 7 by MS Dhoni. " Australia introduced shirt numbers in international cricket in the 1995/96 season while the first World Cup to feature numbered jerseys was the 1999 edition in England . The number 10 is a hugely symbolic shirt in football , worn by greats such as Pele , Diego Maradona and Lionel Messi . In cricket , legendary Indian batsman Sachin Tendulkar wore the number ten as does Pakistan 's Shahid Afridi at this World Cup . Numerologists associate 10 with energy . " There is no reason why I wear number 10 , " said Afridi. " I just like this number. " Sri Lanka 's Kumar Sangakkara , who became the first batsman to score four consecutive hundreds in one-day cricket at this World Cup , wears the number 11 which numerology associates with wisdom . South Africa captain AB de Villiers wears 17 -- he was born on February 17 and made his Test debut on December 17 . Indian numerologist Sanjay Jumaani said most cricketers are aware of what they consider to be their lucky numbers when they choose shirt numbers . " All cricketers wear their respective lucky numbers on their jerseys , barring a few , " said Jummani , on whose advice former Indian batsman Virender Sehwag once decided to sport a numberless shirt to overcome poor form . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
