NZ face SL as World Cup opener set to light up the Oval The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 13 , 2015 , 11.39AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : It 's time to set the alarm clock for 3.30 am. The build-up to this World Cup has been long and just like the fans the players too are dying for the real action to begin . Come Valentine 's Day , curtains will finally go up as the Hagley Oval , a quaint little ground in Christchurch , will host New Zealand and Sri Lanka in a day game . It 's a venue that was built after the city was devastated by earthquake in 2011 and the ICC has scheduled the opener here , acknowledging the spirit shown by the people of Christchurch in fighting back from disaster . There are no floodlights here and a stiff breeze blows across the ground , but all that adds to its charm. The only probable dampener could be the weather , and even though it was a beautiful summer day on Thursday , the impending threat of morning showers on Saturday has made the organizers edgy . But that 's the last thing on the minds of the players. For them , it 's about getting out into the middle and getting their teams off to a smooth start. The Kiwis are on a high ; they have looked extremely good in the practice games so far and it 's about repeating the things that they have done so well till now all over again . " We have ticked all the boxes in the practice match against South Africa. Yes , we have done well recently , but now it 's a matter of staying down-to-earth and to keep doing the things right , " New Zealand skipper Brendon McCullum said after a practice session on Thursday . The top-order consisting of Brendon McCullum , Kane Williamson and Ross Taylor , allrounder Corey Anderson and the spinners Daniel Vettori and Nathan McCullum make New Zealand a truly potent unit . Sri Lanka , on the other hand , are in a bit of a tight corner. A shock loss to Zimbabwe in the last practice game was n't what they had expected . The memories of a series de feat to New Zealand not too long ago would also keep them worried , but an even bigger issue is the fitness of Lasith Malinga. The pace man , coming back from an injury , complained of pain on Saturday after his foot landed on the ground while bowling . KEY CLASHES LASITH MALINGA In Malinga , Sri Lanka have a bowler not only difficult to score off but who fires out rival batsmen with deadly yorkers at pin-point accuracy. His pace and swing can be lethal in New Zealand conditions and Sri Lanka will be looking to rock the Kiwi top-order with Malinga 's pace before he returns to apply the choke in the death overs . BRENDON McCULLUM With a career strike-rate of 91.73 , the New Zealand captain has the license to thrill at the top of the order. An unstoppable force if he gets going , McCullum thrives in taking the fight to rival bowlers. Reputations do n't mean much to this carefree stroke-maker who knows to play only one way - in top gear . ANGELO MATHEWS The Sri Lankan skipper has taken big strides in international cricket since the last World Cup and emerged as a leading all-rounder in limited-overs cricket. His calm and cool demeanor at the crease , coupled with his ability to come up with the big shots under pressure makes him a finisher par excellence . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
