NZ head into World Cup with comfortable win over South Africa The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Feb 11 , 2015 , 11.56AM IST New Zealand 's bowlers then ripped through South Africa 's top order , reducing them to 31-4 in the seventh over and 62-6 in the 14th at Hagley Oval in Christchurch. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 New Zealand will head into their opening cricket World Cup encounter on Saturday oozing confidence after they completed their preparations with a 134-run victory over South Africa on Wednesday . Brendon McCullum 's side have emerged as third favourites for the Feb. 14-March 29 tournament , behind Australia and AB de Villiers ' side , after a run of good performances at home over the last month . Kane Williamson top scored for the World Cup co-hosts with 66 from 53 balls while McCullum blasted 59 from 45 deliveries in their score of 331 for eight off 50 overs . New Zealand 's bowlers then ripped through South Africa 's top order , reducing them to 31-4 in the seventh over and 62-6 in the 14th at Hagley Oval in Christchurch before JP Duminy and Vernon Philander combined for some batting practice . They put on 121 runs with Duminy scoring 80 , while pace bowler Philander scored 57 , but the pair seemed more content to bat out the overs rather than chase down the total and South Africa were eventually dismissed for 197 in 44.2 overs . Left-arm seamer Trent Boult took three of the first four wickets before he finished with 5-51 from 9.2 overs , while wily left-arm spinner Daniel Vettori dismissed world record holder de Villiers for 24 and Wayne Parnell for four to finish with 2-29 from seven overs . Both sides , who were allowed to use all 15 players in their squads , treated the match as a final contested training run , with South African spearhead Dale Steyn not bowling at all . New Zealand 's Tom Latham took over the wicketkeeping gloves from Luke Ronchi , who did bat in New Zealand 's innings . New Zealand will open the tournament at the same venue against Sri Lanka on Saturday while South Africa travel to Hamilton for their opening clash against Zimbabwe on Sunday . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
