ODI hero Guptill recalled to New Zealand Test squad The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Apr 4 , 2015 , 02.27PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 WELLINGTON : The return of World Cup star Martin Guptill and a call-up for fast-bowler Matt Henry headlined the New Zealand Test squad named on Saturday for the series against England starting next month . Guptill , the leading run scorer in the recent World Cup , has not been required for Test duty since playing the last of his 31 internationals on the New Zealand tour to England in 2013 . He has two centuries to his name , including a highest score of 189 and has a batting average of 29.62 . " Martin 's a classically-styled batsman and there 's really no reason why he ca n't be as influential in the longer game as he is in the short , " coach Mike Hesson said when naming the team . However , although included in the 15-man squad , the ODI opener is not assured of breaking into the starting XI and Hesson said he would have a chance to stake his claim in warm-up games against Somerset and Worcester . " This is a stable , established Test side but there will be opportunities for contenders , " Hesson said , with Hamish Rutherford and Tom Latham the incumbent openers . Henry , who was thrust into the World Cup squad for the last two games following injury to Adam Milne , breaks into the Test squad through injury to James Neesham . " It 's another step up for Matt but we 've been impressed by the maturity and skill-set he 's already shown in the ODI format , " Hesson said . Given conditions expected in England in May and June , Mark Craig is the sole specialist spinner selected . Following the retirements of Daniel Vettori and Kyle Mills after the World Cup , in which New Zealand were beaten by seven wickets by Australia in the final , all-rounder Mitchell Santner is the one-newcomer to the ODI squad , with Milne also returning . The 23-year-old Santner averaged 36.22 with the bat during New Zealand 's recent domestic season and took 11 wickets with his left-arm orthodox spin . Wicketkeeper BJ Watling will captain the side in the warm-up games while Brendon McCullum completes Indian Premier League commitments . Test Squad : Brendon McCullum ( Otago , captain ) , Corey Anderson ( Northern Knights ) , Trent Boult ( Northern Knights ) , Doug Bracewell ( Central Stags ) , Mark Craig ( Otago ) , Martin Guptill ( Auckland ) , Matt Henry ( Canterbury ) , Tom Latham ( Canterbury ) , Luke Ronchi ( Wellington ) , Hamish Rutherford ( Otago ) , Tim Southee ( Northern Knights ) , Ross Taylor ( Central Stags ) , Neil Wagner ( Otago ) , BJ Watling ( Northern Knights ) , Kane Williamson ( Northern Knights ) ODI and Twenty20 squad : McCullum , Anderson , Boult , Grant Elliott ( Wellington ) , Guptill , Henry , Latham , Mitchell McClenaghan ( Auckland ) , Nathan McCullum ( Otago ) , Adam Milne ( Central Stags ) , Ronchi ( Wellington ) , Mitchell Santner ( Northern Knights ) , Southee , Taylor , Williamson Itinerary May 8-11 v Somerset , Taunton Vale May 14-17 v Worcester , New Road May 21-25 v England , First Test , Lords May 29-June 2 v England , Second Test , Headingly June 6 v Leicester , Grace Road June 9 v England , first ODI , Edgbaston June 12 v England second ODI , Kia Oval June 14 v England third ODI , Rose Bowl June 17 v England fourth ODI , Trent Bridge June 20 v England fifth ODI , Riverside June 23 v England Twenty20 , Old Trafford Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
