'ODI snub has worked in Vijay 's favour' The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Jul 21 , 2014 , 10.39AM IST Vijay left a lot of balls outside the off-stump and only looked to play when it was close to his body. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : The outside edge that James Anderson induced off Murali Vijay 's bat on Sunday morning brought the curtains down on the Chennai player 's dream of completing a century at Lord 's . But by then , Vijay had shown the world at the Mecca of cricket that he is currently the best Indian Test opener on offer . His 95 off 247 balls on a seaming track against a quality pace attack under immense pressure was proof enough of the mental toughness and his ability to curb his natural instincts . This innings of Vijay was a complete departure from his free-flowing style that made him such an asset for Chennai Super Kings in the first six seasons of IPL . " A lot of work has gone into it. We worked a lot on the basics and the effects are showing , " Jayakumar , Vijay 's personal coach at Chemplast told TOI . Vijay , who has already scored a century at Trent Bridge in the first Test , left a lot of balls outside the off-stump and only looked to play when it was close to his body . " It 's not that he has n't done that before. He left a lot of balls in Durban also when he came close to a century. But the challenge was to ensure that he does that more regularly , " Jayakumar said . The coach informed that the three weeks that they got after IPL was crucial for preparation . " Obviously , it 's not easy to prepare for England in Chennai. But we used some damp pitches , left more grass so that there was that extra lateral movement. And t then of course it was Vijay 's determination to do well , " Jayakumar said . Another coach who has helped Vijay in different stages of his career is WV Raman. The Tamil Nadu coach feels that Vijay getting dropped from the limited overs team has been a blessing in disguise for him. " Vijay understood that if he has to survive in international cricket , he has to do well in Tests . And for that to happen , he had to become the batsman that he originally was , " Raman said . The former India player remembers a time when Vijay batted for a day in Ranji Trophy to score 90 not out . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
