Old Trafford lessons well learnt : Dhoni The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 15 , 2014 , 10.39AM IST Dhoni , who always insists on taking one match at a time , underlined the importance of the fifth and final Test. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : On the eve of Independence Day , Team India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni said he was confident of ushering in 'acche din ' ( good days ) by remaining self-confident and sticking together as a unit in these trying times . " Good and bad times will come and go , but it is important to remain self-confident and keep working hard , " said Dhoni in reply to a question on what lies ahead . Asked whether August 15 would be of any special significance for his team , Dhoni said : " Representing your country is motivation enough. Whether it 's the Independence Day or the Republic Day , it 's the same for us. We do n't really want to think about anything else apart from the Test match. " Dhoni , who always insists on taking one match at a time , underlined the importance of the fifth and final Test . " We know if we win this match what impact it will have on the series. But instead of looking at the series , we should focus on small goals - like breaking up each day into sessions and trying to win them. We are not thinking too much ahead , " stated Dhoni , who also assured that his team 's capitulation at Old Trafford had been analysed . " We already have spoken about it in team environment. We have addressed that ( losing a bunch of wickets in a heap ) . And it was not only about this game because it had happened in earlier games , too. It was more about learning from the last game and making sure that mistakes are not repeated , " said Dhoni , who felt England bowlers deserved more credit for the way they bowled at Old Trafford . " We should feel proud when the team does well. At times the opposition fares worse than us. It 's important to credit the bowlers who did well in the fourth Test and England should also get their due for winning. But it is not right to credit England for both -our loss and their win , " said Dhoni cheekily . Dhoni ruled out resting Bhuvneshwar Kumar , who is India 's leading wicket-taker in the series . " He has managed the workload quite well so far. He has a few niggles , but we can not afford to rest him at this point. It is an important game for us and hopefully he will turn up fit , " Dhoni said . The skipper also ruled out moving Cheteshwar Pujara up to open the innings . " When we do n't have big opening partnerships , it is only logical that the No 3 batsman faces the pressure. Pujara has been going into bat in the third , fourth or fifth over , so he is under pressure. On the other hand , facing such challenges will only help him to improve , " Dhoni opined . Talking about his own batting , Dhoni admitted that he is working on improving his technique . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
