Once a Mumbai reject , Bangar bags India coaching job The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Aug 20 , 2014 , 12.09PM IST Bangar played 12 Tests for India , most of them as a make-shift opener. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : It was a typically rain hit day in the city on August 27 , 2011. Searching for a new Ranji coach , the Mumbai Cricket Association ( MCA ) had invited a few applicants to their office , before rounding up on Sulakshan Kulkarni . Amongst those ignored for the job was ex-India and veteran Railways all-rounder Sanjay Bangar , who was still playing First Class cricket back then . It is incredible how within three years of that rejection , Bangar , known as a feisty cricketer in his time , has bounced back brilliantly to become one of the assistant coaches of the Indian team . Though he was in charge of the India 'A ' team that took on New Zealand 'A ' at home last year , Bangar 's coaching career received a massive boost when he plotted Kings XI Punjab 's march into their maiden IPL final this season . Staying low-profile but effective , Bangar outshone most of the much hyped foreign coaches in the IPL , displaying the fact that the T20 league indeed has space for Indian coaches. Right from the auctions till the match day , the 41-yearold was on the ball , devising strategies that earned praise from everyone as Kings XI dished out inspirational cricket to put in their best performance ever . Bangar played 12 Tests for India , most of them as a make-shift opener. His high point as a player was setting up the Leeds Test win against England in 2002 with a gutsy 68 in difficult conditions . After being dumped from the Indian team a bit unfairly , Bangar continued to play his trade in domestic cricket , where he was a respected figure. He played 165 games for the Railways from the 1993-94 season till 2013. He is the only cricketer to have achieved a double of 6,000 runs and 200 wickets in the Ranji Trophy . Bangar 's 'boys ' at Kings XI swear by his contribution to the team 's success this time . " He promoted youngsters like us big time , right from picking us up in the auctions. He used to give us tremendous confidence. Before the IPL , he had a one-on-one with all of us. He told me : 'After the season , you must be happy about the fact that you made a few friends , and found a new family . The stress was to back each other up , " Kings ' pacer Sandeep Sharma tells TOI . Left-arm spinner Akshar Patel , who enjoyed a dream IPL season , credits Bangar for his and the team 's exhilarating show. " He was calm and composed at all times . After failing with the bat in a few games , I went to him and told him I was feeling under-confident . He said : " I 'm confident you 'll win me games with the bat. It changed my confidence level and reflected in my performances. " Most Kings XI players feel that the 'positive ' dressing room atmosphere that Bangar created , along with skipper George Bailey , was a major reason why the team gave off its best . " He would world tirelessly in the nets , giving throw downs to even the bowlers , " Patel says. " I think the fact that he was playing till recently has helped him guide the youngsters better , " he adds. He is ready with an advice , but not interfering , say the players . Having quickly climbed up the coaching ladder , Bangar faces the stiffest challenge of his 'second innings - to carve a niche for himself in a setup where big egos abound and help a young , struggling team find its feet . And yes , the MCA officials regret that 'No ' to Bangar till today ! Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
