Opening pangs for Team India in Australia The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 22 , 2015 , 11.23AM IST Opener Shikhar Dhawan walks off after being dismissed for one run during the tri-series one-day match against England at the Gabba in Brisbane. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : If well begun is half done , India have been repeatedly fluffing their opening lines. It was the team 's major problem in the first two matches of the tri-series. Be it the opening batsmen or bowlers , they have just not got off to a good start . The think-tank has reposed a lot of faith in some players and is giving them an extended run in the hope that they will finally come good. But how long will this patience last ? Take Shikhar Dhawan , for instance. The team management seems to have more faith in the opener than he has in himself. His return to form is crucial to India 's fortunes. Skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni , though , has continued to defend the out-of-form opener . " Getting off to a good start is important , es pecially in these conditions. But it is not always feasible on such pitches against quality bowlers. It 's not possible that the openers will always perform , " Dhoni said after the defeat in Brisbane . " What 's important is even if you lose an early wicket or two , you need to have partnerships going while keeping enough wickets in hand with a decent run-rate , and accelerate from there on , especially in the batting powerplay . " That is the game plan but we keep losing wickets at regular intervals. We are eating up deliveries to create partnerships but when the time comes to accelerate , we are losing more wickets , " was his assessment of the situation . He realizes that India threw away the advantage in the power-play at the MCG against Australia when they were set for a big total. They managed just 19 runs in the five-over powerplay , besides losing well-set batsmen . At Gabba in Brisbane , they were always on the back foot from the beginning and by the time they were into the powerplay , India were on the verge of being bowled out . Little wonder , then , that Dhoni has been repeating like a parrot the need to keep wickets in hand for the slog overs. Much of India 's hopes in the remaining two matches - against Australia at the SCG on Jan 26 and against England at WACA in Perth on January 30 - rest on the return to form of their two mainstays , Dhawan and Virat Kohli . " Kohli is a class act and he is just an innings away from showing the type of form he did in the Test series. A firing Kohli is so crucial for us , " the Indian skipper said . However , Dhawan has had problems against deliveries outside the off-stump. He tends to play well away from the body and on such pitches , it is always going to be fatal. Unless he tightens his technique he is bound to struggle . If that happens , India will be regretting not plumbing for Murali Vijay as a backup opener both for the tri-series and the World Cup , after he batted with such authority in the Test series . " Vijay was impressive in the Test series and logically he should have been picked for the ODIs as a spare opener. It is so important for a team not to lose early wickets in such conditions. It is more important to display correct technique in the opening few overs , unlike in India where a batsman can go after the bowlers right from the beginning. That is where Vijay would have been useful , " Michael Slater was quoted as saying by the local media . Similar is the case with the bowling. The new-ball bowlers , Umesh Yadav and Mohammed Shami , need to keep it tight. They need to maintain pressure on rival batsmen by keeping then quiet . If they give away loose deliveries it will be very difficult to claim early wickets , especially if you do not have a big title to defend. That is what happened both at MCG and Gabba . However , their late fightback against Australia showed the bowlers do have it in them.The only issue is handling the new ball . At the moment , India are not playing like world champions. They have had a long tour already and if they keep losing games , they are bound to lose their confidence and composure . When the chips are down you tend to feel fatigued and homesick. That 's the reason Dhoni has his formula of keeping a fine balance between cricket and free time . But the more you lose , the more the need to work hard , and the more it drains a player. It is a vicious circle. Only a couple of good wins can help. The sooner India get them , the better it will be for them . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
