Options lacking , Virender Sehwag in spotlight The author has posted comments on this article Indranil Basu & Arani Basu , TNN | Oct 21 , 2014 , 12.06PM IST Selectors are looking at Sehwag as the third opener for the Test series Down Under. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Inconsistent performances at the top of the order have forced Team India to look towards veteran Virender Sehwag for the upcoming Test series in Australia , according to sources . Sehwag , who is in the frame for the third opener 's slot for the tour Down Under , will be keenly watched by selectors and the team management when he plays the Duleep Trophy , a top Indian cricket board ( BCCI ) official told TOI . In fact , during the recent selection committee meeting for the North Zone team , which will play in the Duleep Trophy from October 22 , the selectors opted for Sehwag instead of other consistent performers from the zone because they felt he was in with a chance to earn a berth for the Australian tour . This is why young performers like Manan Vohra and Unmukt Chand missed out on being in the Duleep Trophy squad. Punjab 's Jiwanjot Singh , who has scored heavily in his first two first-class seasons , however , did find a place . Sehwag last played for India in the 2013 home series against Australia and was replaced by Delhi teammate Shikhar Dhawan. Apart from indifferent form , Sehwag 's attitude and lack of fitness also allegedly rubbed the team management the wrong way . " If he is fit and motivated , he could be there in the Test team for Australia , " the official said . With Murali Vijay and Shikhar Dhawan likely to be first-choice openers , Sehwag 's immediate competitor for the third opener 's slot will be Delhi teammate , Gautam Gambhir . Gambhir , who was in the squad for the England series , is also the team management 's preferred choice . After being dropped from the Test team , Sehwag played seven Ranji Trophy matches for Delhi last year but scored just 234 runs at 19.5. In comparison , Gambhir made 578 run from seven matches at an average of 48.16. However , Gambhir was out of sorts when he got an opportunity in England earlier this year. Besides , Sehwag has an excellent record in Australia . Although Sehwag has batted in the middle-order too since being dropped , he will now be opening for Delhi in the Vijay Hazare Trophy. Sources said that he is also expected to open for North Zone. " He is in the North Zone team as an opener , " a North Zone official said . Can Sehwag , who has said in the past that he would now prefer batting lower down , conjure up some old magic against quality Australian pace ? He is apparently working very hard on his fitness. He has a gym at home and a trainer too . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
