Our ODI bowling unit best in the world : McDermott The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Mar 29 , 2015 , 10.11AM IST Mitchell Johnson of Australia prepares to bowl as bowling coach Craig McDermott looks on during team 's training session at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : It was the quality of Australian attack that put paid to India 's hopes of making it to the World Cup final . Craig McDermott , the man responsible for reviving Australian attack , is pleased as punch with the manner in which his bowling unit has performed in the World Cup . Australia 's bowling coach spoke to TOI from Melbourne on the eve of the summit showdown with New Zealand. Excerpts from an exclusive interview : How would you sum up Australia 's bowling effort against India in the semifinal ? I reckon it is the best we have bowled all summer. Just about everyone bowled superbly on an unhelpful SCG track for bowlers. All four frontline pacers did their job , as did Glenn Maxwell whose five overs yielded just 18 runs. We have the best bowling unit in ODI cricket and it was no surprise that our bowlers did the job against India . Would you say that Mitchell Starc is the most improved bowler in international cricket ? Both Starc and Hazlewood have improved by leaps and bounds and have adapted well to both formats of the game. They have been equally good in Test matches , too. They not only swing the ball but also maintain a very good line and length . Is n't it a pity that you have not been able to fit in Pat Cummins who has been quite impressive ? Cummins is also a quality young bowler. James Faulkner has bowled so well that we have not had to use Shane Watson too much. We are happy to have such selection headaches but we make sure that best XI takes the field . Any concern about playing three left-arm pacers ? The only thing common about Johnson , Starc and Faulkner is that they are all left-armers. They are all different type of bowlers. Johnson has lethal pace and uses the short ball well. He has been impressive as first change. Starc can swing the new ball and has the pace to worry the best while Faulkner has plenty of variety that makes him very effective in the death overs . How do you assess New Zealand 's attack ? They have an excellent attack which has excelled in New Zealand conditions where swing is a big factor. I am not sure swing will be a factor at the MCG. I expect the drop-in pitch to yield good pace and carry. Line and length will be the key. Conditions will be very different at the MCG for sure and New Zealand will have to adapt to it. It will not be easy . Does Australia have all bases covered ? We have depth in batting , the bowling unit is top condition and the fielding has been good too. I see any reason why Australia ca n't do what India did four years ago -- win the World Cup at home . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
