India vs Australia : Rohit Sharma Doubtful , Ravindra Jadeja Fit to Start India vs Australia : Rohit Sharma Doubtful , Ravindra Jadeja Fit to Start Mahendra Singh Dhoni confirmed that pacer Ishant Sharma and all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja have regained fitness while Rohit Sharma is still injured ahead of India 's crucial ODI vs Australia on Monday . Last updated on Sunday , 25 January , 2015 23 : 42 IST Total Shares File photo : Ishant Sharma and Ravindra Jadeja in practice © AFP Sydney : India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni Sunday said Ishant Sharma ( ankle injury ) and Ravindra Jadeja ( left shoulder impingement ) are fit and available for selection for the ODI tri-series clash against Australia at the Sydney Cricket Ground ( SCG ) in Sydney on Monday. ( Australia to experiment with squad for India ODI ) However , Rohit Sharma is still recuperating from his sore hamstring and will continue to sit out. ( Steve Smith joins Tendulkar , Jayasuriya in exclusive list ) “ Rohit is not fit for this game. Everybody else , including Ishant and Jadeja are available for selection , ” Dhoni said. ( India look emotionally drained : Danny Morrison ) When India began their pre-match practice session Sunday , Ishant was one of the first to have a bat in the nets and Jadeja followed him soon. ( India 's World Cup preparations hurt in series Down Under ) While confident that currently the two players have no threat to their participation in the World Cup , Dhoni said the smart management of players ’ small niggles will be the key going into the big tournament. ( Kohli 's batting technique bewilders Gavaskar ) “ We will have to decide whether we want to give them a few more net sessions before playing them or give them a game right away , ” Dhoni said. ( Ishant a liability : Gavaskar ) “ When it comes to Jadeja we will also have to monitor his throwing ability and decide whether to have him in the deep to cover the big boundaries or have him inside the circle. ” The ongoing tri-series has been seen as a chance for teams to work out their best World Cup combinations by trying out certain new things . Dhoni , though , refuted the claim that not fielding their best eleven was one reason why India lost their first two games of the series . “ We have been playing our best XI but we have been hampered by injuries , ” he said . “ We do look to try different things but also look to win the game. There is no point in playing someone with a niggle with so less time into the World Cup . “ You might win the game but end up losing that player for the World Cup. I know this tournament is important but we do not want to lose our best players for the World Cup , ” the Indian skipper said . Story first published on : Sunday , 25 January 2015 12 : 11 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
