Our spinners are confused : Erapalli Prasanna The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Jan 18 , 2015 , 11.19AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : It was a fascinating sight. " Focus on bowling a good length , " " do n't be afraid to get hit , " chirped an enthusiastic 74-year-old , as kids , perhaps aiming to make spin bowling their profession someday , looked to give the ball a real rip at the Parsee Gymkhana on Saturday . By the end of it , India off-spin great Erapalli Prasanna had passed on many such priceless nuggets to tweakers of all age groups of the city . The day-long initiative , organised by the Global Cricket School and felicitated by KSCA consultant Makarand Waingankar , came after the latter decided to help Mumbai 's slow bowlers gain valuable guidance from the great spinner . Waingankar had seen Karnataka produce excellent results due to Prasanna 's efforts as a coach at the KSCA academy in Bangalore. The exercise also involved England spin coach Peter Such , who played 11 Tests in the 90s . Amongst those who turned up to utilise this golden opportunity were offie Akshay Girap and opener Akhil Herwadkar - clearly with an eye to prepare for Mumbai 's next Ranji game against Tamil Nadu , on what should be a turning track at Chennai . World record holder Prithvi Shaw too managed to make an impression on Prasanna , who felt that it was time the talented teenaged batsman played in a higher grade of cricket . India , once the 'land of spin, ' is experiencing a paucity of quality slow bowlers now . Does he notice talented spinners at all now ? " The talent is there in abundance , but we are n't nurturing it , " Prasanna tells TOI. " Somewhere , our focus changed from strength to our weakness. So the board started focusing on fast bowling thinking that we 'll be eternally rich in spin. We thought that preparing green tops will get our batsmen used to them , and fast bowling will also improve. It had a negative effect . Our batting is failing against pace and our fast bowling is n't fast enough. We have lost spin and our pacers are n't making a real impact. We 're in a dilemma. Batting may win you T20 and ODIs , but in Tests you need 20 wickets to win , " he elaborates . He then points out the problem area. " Today , our spinners are confused. They do n't know whether to curtail runs or take wickets. Firstly , the captain must have a big heart to support a spinner. Secondly , we must know how to organize spin bowling. For example , we suddenly saw R Ashwin turn from strike to a stock bowler , even on a turning wicket. With this approach to the problem , how do you expect the spinners to come to the forefront ? The team management must realize that spin is our strength too , " he says . He then explains why Ashwin , who drifted down the leg far too often for an off-spinner , was n't as effective as his Australian counterpart Nathan Lyon in the recent series. " He was made a stock bowler , with the captain wanting him to not concede runs. What else do you expect him to do ? Even the wickets he got were because the batsmen were trying to score quickly. Surprisingly , he was n't even turning the ball in Sydney , where Indian spinners have turned the ball historically , " he rued . The ODIs , according to Prasanna , do n't tell us the real worth of a spinner. " With batsmen always dominating , the spinner is on the defensive , " he says. He feels Indian batsmen are struggling these days against spin because " Once you concede 500 or above , you 're only trying to save a game. So , any spinner bowling decently , becomes dangerous , " he feels . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
