Over half a billion Indian fans tune in to World Cup The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 12 , 2015 , 04.07PM IST Viewers across the country cheered for Team India across multiple feeds with Hindi , English and Tamil emerging as the preferred languages. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : With India 's winning streak extending to a record nine matches in the ICC World Cup 2015 , the viewership for the 50-over showpiece event has risen to over half-a-million in the cricket crazy country . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The league stage figures post three weeks of the quadrennial event have touched 534 million viewers after the first 29 matches ( TAM data CS4 + extrapolated to the universe using a standard conversion factor ) . After getting record-breaking TRPs in India 's first two wins against Pakistan and South Africa , the Mahendra Singh Dhoni-led side once again made the fans stay glued to their television sets with a 13.1 TVR rating sccross Star network and 2.2 TVR on DD ( TAM data M15 + ABC ) . 262 million viewers ( TAM data CS4 + extrapolated to the universe using a standard conversion factor ) tuned in to watch India chase down the West Indies ' total to register their fourth consecutive win in this edition . Viewers across the country cheered for Team India across multiple feeds with Hindi , English and Tamil emerging as the preferred languages. Hindi and regional language contribution continued to be high with 80 per cent of the viewership coming from the non-English feed . Star extended the 'Mauka ' campaign for the India West Indies game incorporating the festive celebrations on the occasion of Holi receiving overwhelming response from the fans. The India West Indies promo was watched by over 2.7 million fans as the campaign overall crossed over 17 million online views . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
