Paceman Bhuvneshwar 's selection raises questions The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Jan 8 , 2015 , 10.45AM IST Paceman Bhuvneshwar Kumar bowls to Australia during their fourth and final Test match in Sydney. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Although they put up an improved show on Wednesday , India 's bowling was as docile as the SCG pitch. None of the seamers could make a forceful impression on the Aussies and Bhuvneshwar Kumar 's selection , in particular , seemed baffling . Having nursed a left ankle injury through most part of this tour and trying to ease himself into rhythm only occasionally in the nets , he was clearly not Test-fit coming into this game. Even a standby , Dhawal Kulkarni , had been flown in . While signs of trouble were evident on Tuesday , when the bowler hobbled off to have some treatment for cramps and clearly seemed below par , Day Two brought little relief as Bhuvneshwar 's form started hurting India . His bowled 34 overs and failed to make any impression. His pace went down from the usual 130km-mark to more military-medium standards , below 120km. The wicketkeeper , Saha , started standing up. The bowler appeared in physical discomfort too . It begged the question : why did India select Bhuvneshwar - so crucial to India 's World Cup plans - for this game ? In hot conditions on a dry and traditionally flat Sydney pitch , it was unlikely that Bhuvneshwar could generate any swing with the Kookaburra ball , being more used to the Duke or the SG . With Ishant Sharma also unavailable with left knee pain , Bhuvneshwar 's selection appeared a confused one . Another specialist spinner or the raw pace of Varun Aaron , who can crank up speeds of 150k , would have been the more logical choice. It mystified even Shane Warne , who said , " India have someone who can bowl at 150-plus and he is warming the bench. With that kind of pace available , you would want Aaron to get a more regular feel of Test cricket. " Ian Chappell , meanwhile , suggested not picking two specialist spinners was a blunder . Is n't India risking further injury and denting Bhuvneshwar 's confidence ahead of the World Cup ? Mohammad Shami did his best to defend the selection , saying , " Without being fit , it is difficult to make the playing XI. The XI is always picked based on fitness. " Asked about Bhuvneshwar 's declining pace , he said , " You may have noticed he ( usually ) does n't have that sort of pace. He is a line and length and swing bowler . " It is such a slow wicket. If you judge him on his pace then it 's not fair to question his fitness. No fast bowler is 100 % fit. There are always niggles. We ca n't judge a player on that. We all do this ( take time out with the physio ) as a part of our recovery. " His words flew in the face of the available evidence . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
