Pacers need to be stronger : Courtney Walsh The author has posted comments on this article TNN | May 16 , 2014 , 09.29AM IST Walsh , famous for his sportsman spirit , played down the Kieron Pollard-Mitchell Starc spat. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Courtney Walsh was one of the most prolific and durable pacer cricket has ever seen. The gentle giant from Jamaica is the only fast bowler to have bowled 5000 overs in a 132-Test career that spanned for almost 17 years and this does n't include his work in limited overs cricket and his long stint at Gloucestershire . This kind of durability is unheard of these days where fast bowlers fade away as quickly as they appear. Walsh , who is the chief mentor for the BCCL Navbharat Times Superpacer -an initiative to unearth fast bowlers in the country -says the key to longevity is proper preparation keeping in mind the volume of work . " Couple of years ago , you had some young fast bowlers that burst on the scene and within a year , the injuries started creeping in , " Walsh said at the MIG on Thursday . " Bowlers like Umesh Yadav and some others whom I saw looked promising. But after a Test series or two , they started to get injured. That is where we have to manage these guys so that they get fit and strong and can go through the rigours of international cricket. " Asked about the reason for these injuries , he said , " I personally feel they are not fully prepared for the work load . There is a lot of cricket being played and as a fast bowler you have to work twice as hard as some of the batsmen would. I do n't think some of the fast bowlers realise how important it is and by the time they realise the workload that is required , they have already picked up an injury or two. In today 's game , you have to be strong. That is the demand. " Walsh also blamed the flatter pitches and meatier bats for hastening the bowlers ' decline . " When I started in ( 1984 ) there were good wickets to play on. Over the years cricket has become a batsman 's game. There were times when the bowlers would bowl six or seven overs on the trot and bowl just two spells in the day. But now bowlers are required to bowl three spells due to the nature of the pitches. The wickets have become flatter and that is why the bowlers have to work twice as hard. The bats these days too are different. The bowlers in their bid to get wickets strive to bowl too fast and at times injure themselves. There definitely needs to be some balance between the bat and the ball , " said Walsh . The West Indies legend , famous for his sportsman spirit , played down the Kieron Pollard-Mitchell Starc spat . " It did n't look a pretty sight when you saw it but in the heat of the moment , these things sometimes do happen. That is not what you want to see on field and that is what you do n't want youngsters to watch and think that is the norm. Hopefully , things have been sorted out and whatever action needs to be taken has been taken and we can return to normalcy , " said Walsh . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
