Pakistan face psychological barrier against India : Aaqib Javed The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 14 , 2015 , 05.12PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ABU DHABI : Pakistan will find it difficult to get rid of the psychological barrier of losing to India in World Cups when they clash in their opening match , according to former pacer Aaqib Javed . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " It is to do with the psyche and , unfortunately , it has lived with us during the World Cup even when we were led by a charismatic leader of Imran Khan 's stature , " says Javed , who is now the coach of the UAE side . He said the players can not afford to treat an India-Pakistan contest as a normal game. " If Pakistan takes it as another game , we will win , but India-Pakistan is never another game and it crosses all levels , however much we try , " he was quoted as saying by Gulf News . " In the 1992 World Cup we lost against India because we got excited , no , overexcited I can say. It is like New Zealand faltering after reaching the semis and South Africa choking at the last hurdle , " Javed said . " Kiwis and South Africans always had a strong team for World Cups but they too have a barrier that they have never crossed. For Pakistan , ( that barrier has ) been the match against India , " he added . Referring to Pakistan 's 1992 success , Javed said : " Imran 's message to Wasim ( Akram ) was to bowl as fast as he could and I was asked to try and get the ball to swing. However , the current Pakistan team is hugely hit in Junaid Khan 's absence. ( Mohammad ) Irfan will produce pace and bounce , but Junaid could have swung the ball. " " ( Wahab ) Riaz ca n't bowl the new ball and Sohail ( Khan ) and ( Ehsan ) Adil have very little experience of ODIs. If you do n't know who your two new ball bowlers are , then it is going to be tough , " he said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
