Pakistan game a 'World Cup final ' , says Clarke The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 19 , 2015 , 03.12PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE ( Australia ) : Australia captain Michael Clarke will approach Friday 's World Cup quarterfinal against Pakistan like a final , saying he expected a " tough challenge " from Misbah-ul-Haq 's men in the make-or-break game . Pakistan have lost nine of their last 10 one-dayers to Australia on Australian grounds , including all of the last seven , but Clarke refused to take victory for granted . " I think Pakistan have been under-rated for a long time especially in the shorter form of the game , " Clarke told reporters at the Adelaide Oval on Thursday . " They have got a lot of talent. Their attack is very good and they have got a good mix of youth and experience . " It will be a tough challenge for us and I believe we have to be at our best to beat them. We 'll treat this like a World Cup final . " If you lose , you will be sitting and watching the rest of the tournament , so we are focused on just making sure we can have success in this game. " Four-time champions Australia beat England in their opening match , had a rained-out no-result against Bangladesh and then lost by one wicket to co-hosts New Zealand after being bowled out for 151 . They then won their three remaining matches to live up to their billing as one of the pre-tournament favourites . However , Clarke said the results of the league matches were irrelevant and the momumtum gained through the tournament will count for little if the team lost a knock-out game . " When you walk out on the field tomorrow it 's a new day. We all start on zero with the bat and zero with the ball as well , " he said . " What happened beforehand is irrelevant. It does not matter how well you have played earlier or what your plans are afterwards . " It 's about being 100 percent focused and as well prepared as you can be ; batting as well as you can , bowling as well as you can , and hopefully our fielding continues to be as good as it has been. " Clarke expects the drop-in pitch at the Adelaide Oval , which sported a tinge of green on the eve of the match , to assist the battery of fast bowlers on both sides . " I think the pitch has certainly gotten quicker over the years , " he said. " The groundsman always does a great job here in Adelaide. It 's a beautiful ground , and we are going to see another great wicket tomorrow . " Fast bowling will play a big part in the match especially if they leave that grass on the wicket like there is now. Both teams have good fast bowlers . " The batters will have to make sure we play really well. I think you 'll definitely see a wonderful game tomorrow , hopefully an entertaining game . " Either way it 's going to be a challenge no matter what the scoreboard says. " Australia will field three left-armers , Mitchell Starc , Mitchell Johnson and James Faulkner , and either Pat Cummins or Josh Hazlewood , in a strong pace attack . Pakistan , depleted by the absence of the injured Mohammad Irfan , have Wahab Riaz , Rahat Ali and Sohail Khan to share the new ball with either leg-spinner Yasir Shah or seamer Ehsan Adil as the fourth frontline bowler . Australia and Pakistan have won four games each in their eight World Cup meetings so far. Their last Cup encounter four years ago resulted in a four-wicket win for Pakistan in Colombo . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
