Pakistan get ready for the big battle against their bitter rivals The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 14 , 2015 , 10.59AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Pakistan had their first training session at the Adelaide Oval , using the facilities at the outdoor nets , while India , their rivals for Sunday 's clash , were again at the St Peter 's College ground , opposite the Adelaide Parkland . The Pakistanis had the first feel of the venue as they had preferred to rest after arriving from Sydney on Thursday afternoon. Their workout was extensive , with each player taking turns to bat and ball under the watchful eye of coach Waqar Younis . The young pace bowling unit got maximum attention of the coach as he handed them instructions on how to go about bowling in the conditions here.Waqar is no stranger to Australia , having played a lot of cricket here . He passed on his experience and knowledge to his young charges in the same manner he had received lessons from Imran Khan during his initial years . Imran had mentored the two Ws , Waqar and Wasim Akram , during their early days , and how well they served Pakistan cricket. Now it is Waqar 's turn to pass on his expertise to the young brigade . A member of the 1992 World Cup winning team , former leggie Mushtaq Ahmed is the bowling coach. He is just the right man to guide the young spinners who are here as replacements for off-spinners Saeed Ajmal and Mohammed Hafeez. Hafeez was injured a few days ago , but his bowling action , like Ajmal 's , is under cloud . The unavailability of Hafeez is a double blow to the team , as he is more than handy both as an opener and an off-spinner. He has been replaced by Nasir Jamshed , but the opener looked out of sorts due to his late inclusion in the side and a bit out of place in the tough Australian conditions . After nets , the team focused on fielding , which can make such a big difference on the large grounds in Australia . There is a lot of chasing involved given the long boundaries and the players have to learn the technique of relay throws to help out their mates. Their practice session thus began with a rugby-like game with the cricket ball . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
