Pakistan need new captains in all formats : Mushtaq The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 21 , 2015 , 06.01PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 KARACHI : It 's time to appoint new Pakistan captains in all three formats says former skipper Mushtaq Muhammad , who also suggested that Misbah-ul-Haq and Shahid Afridi should quit international cricket completely . Both Misbah and Afridi have retired from ODI cricket after Pakistan 's exit from the World Cup but they will continue to play in Test and Twenty20 cricket respectively . " Misbah-ul-Haq , Shahid Afridi and Younis Khan have given a lot of good performances for Pakistan but I am not in favor of now retaining Misbah as Test captain or Afridi as T20 captain nor considering Younis for the ODI captaincy , " Mushtaq told PTI . " I would advise the Pakistan Board to make a fresh start and appoint new captains for all three formats. I think it is time Misbah and Afridi retired totally from international cricket , " he said . The former Test all-rounder said he would love to see the PCB and fans give a befitting farewell to the senior players but from a future point of view one had to move on . " Misbah has done his best so has Afridi they have given us many moments to cherish but at some stage I think you need to step down. I do n't think the decision of whether they should continue playing in any format should be left to them it is for the PCB to now take strong decisions. " Mushtaq said he always appreciated the many times Misbah had stood as a rock in the Pakistan batting or how Afridi had produced match-winning performances but they had to retire from all international cricket now . " The PCB needs to think ahead and move on with a fresh plan. Our biggest problem is finding a good captain for long term basis and some solid batsmen. " " We do n't groom future captains in domestic cricket so we always face problems in this department. A captain must have the respect of his players and be willing to take strong decisions under pressure. This is why M S Dhoni is such a success. " Mushtaq said there was a need to search for quality batsmen and all-rounders . " Some of the batsmen like Ahmed Shehzad , Umar Akmal and Sohaib Maqsood are just not willing to learn from their mistakes and grow on the mental side of cricket. It is time we find new players and start giving them exposure. " Mushtaq also picked India as favorites to defend their World Cup title . " They appear to be the most complete team right now and I think they will beat Australia in the semi-finals but this World Cup has been a topsy turvy one. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
