Pakistan 's Amir bags three wickets on comeback The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 13 , 2015 , 04.02PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 RAWALPINDI : Pakistani fast bowler Mohammad Amir showed no signs of rustiness as he made his return after a five-year spot-fixing ban on Friday , bagging three wickets in his first spell in competitive cricket since 2010 . The 22-year-old bowled with pace and aggression to snare three scalps in an opening stint of six overs for the Omar Associates side at the former Test ground in Rawalpindi , next to Islamabad . Amir was cleared to return to domestic cricket early from his ban for bowling no-balls to order against England in 2010 , but his first match , planned for earlier this week , was rained off . The three-day match that started Friday against the Capital Development Authority is part of the grade-two Patron 's Trophy tournament , one level down from first-class . It made for a relatively easy reintroduction to cricket for the left-armer , whose pace , control and ability to swing the ball both ways saw him become the youngest bowler , at 18 , to take 50 Test wickets . He was one of three Pakistani players banned from the game for at least five years for arranging no-balls to order in the notorious Lord 's Test against England in 2010 . He was also jailed in Britain in 2011 , along with former captain Salman Butt and Mohammad Asif . Amir 's ban was due to expire on September 2 , but the International Cricket Council used discretionary powers to allow him to return to domestic cricket early , citing his early admission of guilt and cooperation with anti-corruption authorities . When not bowling , Amir was enthusiastic in the field and encouraged his teammates . His Omar Associates coach Nasir Shah he was pleased to have the former Test man , picked for greatness by Pakistani legend Wasim Akram as far back as 2007 . " I am hopeful that he will return back to international cricket very soon as he is motivated and willing for a comeback , " Shah said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
