Pakistan top online searches during World Cup 2015 : Google The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 1 , 2015 , 01.58PM IST The analysis of online trends shows that among the minnows , Afghanistan lead in global search interest and are followed by Bangladesh , Ireland and United Arab Emirates . Page 1 of 4 GUWAHATI : Pakistan have topped the chart of most searched teams playing in the ongoing ICC World Cup despite not performing well , a latest study by global online giant Google said . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " Despite two humiliating defeats against India and the West Indies , Pakistan team still continues to dominate search influence and continues to remain the top searched team from the tournament , " Google said in the study . Pakistan are closely followed by India , West Indies , England and Australia as the other most searched teams in Google search . The analysis of online trends shows that among the minnows , Afghanistan lead in global search interest and are followed by Bangladesh , Ireland and United Arab Emirates . Google said the searches are not just limited to performance , fans are also obsessed about physical characteristics of players . " Indian fans searched online for the exact height of Pakistan pacer Mohammad Irfan and globally fans searched for information around James Taylor 's height . The search query , " How tall is James Taylor " peaked forty times higher than before as Taylor made his appearance on the field , " it added . Also , Indian vice-captain Virat Kohli 's hair style has seen a huge spike in terms of online search queries since the beginning of this World Cup , the trends showed . Virat Kohli takes a break from batting during team 's training session in Perth. ( AFP Photo ) Google said Chris Gayle , who scored a double-ton in this World Cup , is the most searched West Indian player for both his athletic and artistic talents but apparently " Chris Gayle Dance " is something the South Asian fans just love searching for . Congratulations @ henrygayle for smashing double century , 215 from 147 balls , welcome to the 200 club # CWC15 # WIvZIM pic.twitter.com/ZcXvWwPt6w — Delhi Daredevils ( @ DelhiDaredevils ) February 24 , 2015 " Sri Lanka 's Mahela Jayawardene caught the fancy of the fans when his bat broke into two pieces while facing a delivery against Afghanistan pacer Shapoor Zadran , driving an immediate spike in global search interest , " it added . The study of the trends further depicted that after Sachin Tendulkar was caught taking a selfie during India 's match with South Africa , searches for him crossed those for both Shikhar Dhawan and Virat Kohli who were battling it out in the middle . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
