Paneer MSD and Virat barbeque tangdi - served hot on your plate in India-Oz semifinal The author has posted comments on this article Pooja Kulkarni , TNN | Mar 25 , 2015 , 11.01AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 As Team India gets ready to take on Australia in the cricket World Cup semifinal this Thursday , sports bars and restaurants in the city have resolved to make the match-watching experience memorable for cricket enthusiasts . Apart from opening doors early , restaurants and lounges will also introduce the World Cup menu which includes special dishes and beverages inspired by names of cricket stars . Prasham Divadkar , part of a city-based sports bar in Baner , said , " For the India-Australia semifinal match , we plan to open at 9 am like we did for the India-Pakistan match . We usually do n't serve breakfast on regular days as we open post noon , but we have crafted a special menu for the World Cup season. The beverages include Mauka Mocha , Doosra which is a sweet and spicy drink , while Bleed Blue is a blue coloured concoction . The food menu will have Cricket Club Sandwich , Paneer MSD and Virat Barbeque Tangdi. Apart from this we also have anda-bhurji and chicken sandwiches and popcorn which we are offering only during the matches. " Matches between traditional rivals always attract more customers , admitted Kedar Bhosale , senior operations manager at another city-based sports bar in Lulla Nagar . " Although we are screening all the World Cup matches , whenever there is a match between India and a rival team , the turnout of cricket buffs is higher than usual. For the India-Pakistan match we had almost 300 guests , so we are expecting a similar crowd on Thursday. " Further talking about the special arrangements for the day , he added , " We will be opening doors at 9 am on Thursday. Our World Cup menu is named after five best cricket teams of the world and includes special dishes and beverages representing each of these countries. It has been a hit with the customers so we plan to repeat the same. " Clint Samson , manager at a sports lounge in Hadapsar , said , " We are expecting a great crowd for the India-Australia match because even though Team India is the current champion , Australia is known for winning big matches. So there is a lot of excitement and anticipation about the match. We will be opening as early as 8.30 am so that people can come and settle down with breakfast and beverages before the match begins. We are not offering a special menu but only our regular breakfast options. There are attractive offers on beverages though. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
