Paras Mhambrey is Vidarbha coach The author has posted comments on this article Ruchir Mishra , TNN | Apr 30 , 2014 , 10.15AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NAGPUR : Just a year after he was appointed the Vidarbha coach , Sairaj Bahutule has been shown the door following inconsistent performance by the senior team last season . The former Indian leggie will be replaced by his Mumbai teammate and ex-India pacer Paras Mhambrey , it is learnt. If sources are to be believed , Mhambrey has been offered a two-year contract by Vidarbha . Mhambrey , 41 , has played for India in two Tests and three one-dayers on the tour of England in 1996 and has a wealth of First Class experience. He has done wonders with Bengal , where the young side reached the final in 2005-06 after a gap of 16 years. He has coached Baroda and Maharashtra , and the India 'A ' during 2007-08 season . He has also been associated with National Cricket Academy for a brief period. Later , he was also assistant coach of Mumbai Indians under Robin Singh. When John Wright took over MI 's reins , he was involved in scouting for domestic talent. It was Mhambrey who spotted Apoorv Wankhede for Mumbai Indians. The Vidarbha middle order batsman is still the part of MI camp . Another former Mumbai player Kiran Powar , who guided Vidarbha Under-19 to Elite group in 2012-13 season , is also back in Vidarbha fold. He will again look after the Under-19 team. He was instrumental in the development of cricketers like Jitesh Sharma and Siddhesh Neral and Akshay Wadkar. All three have now represented Vidarbha in the shorter format and are seen as future prospects. Powar too has replaced his Mumbai mate Suresh Shetty , who did n't have a fruitful year both in longer and shorter formats . Mumbai cricketer Umesh Patwal , who was part of Afghanistan team during Asia Cup and recently-concluded Twenty20 World Cup as a batting coach , will also be part of Vidarbha Cricket Association 's Residential Academy. He will be the batting coach for junior cricketers. Afghanistan were the surprise package of Asia Cup and World Twenty20 . Suhas Pawar , who was trainer at VCA 's Residential Academy and senior team in 2009-2011 , too is back with Vidarbha after helping Baroda over the last two years. President Prakash Dixit had praised Pawar when he took over the reigns of VCA three years ago . Vidarbha were in search of a new coach after Bahutule publicly showed interest in Mumbai coach 's job earlier this year. He had a two-year contract with Vidarbha but has been relieved of his duties with immediate effect. Mumbai are yet to announce their coach for the next season , and Bahutule has applied for the post . Vidarbha just about managed to keep their place in the Elite Group in Ranji Trophy , while they won the Central Zone Vijay Hazare One-day tournament in Jaipur this March. They lost the keenly-contested pre-quarterfinal to Services in Kolkata. However , the Central Zone Syed Mushtaq Ali Twenty20 tournament in their own backyard turned out to be disaster for Vidarbha , where they lost all four matches to finish at the bottom of the table . VCA officials were quite upset with the performance and most of them wanted the change. This ended Bahutule 's three-year association with Vidarbha cricket in various capacities. He joined as a professional in 2011-12 , along with former India cricketers Hemang Badani and Shiv Sundar Das. With impressive show in that season , Vidarbha qualified for the Elite group when BCCI changed the format of Ranji Trophy next season . In 2012-13 , he was given the dual responsibility of captain and coach. Vidarbha did reasonably well. With his average show , both with bat and ball , Bahutule hung up his boots after the last match against Delhi , thus ending his 23-year-long career as a player . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
