Patchy Proteas 'still best in World Cup ' , says AB de Villiers The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 11 , 2015 , 09.30AM IST " Those two losses in the group stages did hurt us a bit and did hurt me a bit , but we 're past that now , " said AB de Villiers. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 WELLINGTON : AB de Villiers insisted on Wednesday that South Africa were re-energized and had shrugged off their inconsistent early form at the World Cup , boldly declaring " we 're the best team in the tournament " . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The Proteas skipper was in a bullish mood ahead of South Africa 's final Pool B match against the United Arab Emirates in Wellington on Thursday , despite losses to India and Pakistan in the group stages . He acknowledged South Africa had endured a " rocky road " so far but said the vigour that was lacking when the pre-tournament favourites slumped to a 29-run loss against Pakistan had returned . " It 's all positive from here on in , I still feel very confident , " he said. " I believe 100 percent we 're the best team in the tournament . " Those two losses in the group stages did hurt us a bit and did hurt me a bit , but we 're past that now. " As the knockout stages loom , de Villiers added : " We know we 're a few games away from taking that World Cup home. " South Africa have looked strongest when batting first , amassing 400-plus against the West Indies and Ireland , but faltered when chasing against India and Pakistan . Former captain Graeme Smith has expressed concern rivals will exploit such vulnerability in the knockout stages , although de Villiers said the fears were unfounded . " As long as we get ( the basics ) right , then I truly believe we can chase down anything , " he said. " It 's not a problem. We 've done it in the last year a few times under pressure . " I believe there are a few guys due for big runs , and it 's going to happen soon , at the right time. " De Villiers said the UAE tie was a must-win if South Africa wanted to wrap up second spot in Pool B , setting up a likely quarter-final clash against Sri Lanka . " There are a few guys I 'd like to get into form... all around I 'd just like to show a good performance , " he said . De Villiers said seamer Vernon Philander ( hamstring ) and batsman Faf du Plessis ( lower back ) would face late fitness tests . He was also cagey when asked whether the UAE presented a chance to give match time to members of the extended squad such as Wayne Parnell and Aaron Phangiso . " It 's a difficult one , you do n't want to mess around too much with your best possible 11 , keeping in mind that all 15 need to play somewhere along the line in the World Cup , " he said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
