Patel should disclose if he is related to Shivlal : Pawar The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Apr 21 , 2014 , 03.49PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Former BCCI chief Sharad Pawar wants Justice JN Patel , who is part of a three-man probe panel set up by the Board to investigate the IPL corruption scandal , to come clean on his reported links with the body 's interim president Shivlal Yadav . He also deprecated the presence of former India captain Ravi Shastri on the inquiry committee , citing conflict of interest . " I think Patel should definitely disclose if he is related to the BCCI 's interim president Shivlal Yadav. If not , then BCCI should clarify and should not allow these type of discussions , " Pawar said in an interview . The names of the former Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court , Shastri and ex-CBI director RK Raghavan were approved by the Board members at an emergent working committee meeting here on Sunday . Their names would be submitted for approval of the Supreme Court which is hearing the the IPL scandal , with the next hearing scheduled on Tuesday . The SC had directed the BCCI at the last hearing on April 16 to suggest names of persons who will conduct a " fair probe " into the IPL 6 spot-fixing and betting scandal . The apex court is expected to consider the suggestion by the BCCI and pass orders on the future course of the probe . " I do n't know him ( Patel ) personally , but I think it is his duty to disclose if this news ( information ) is correct , " Pawar said . " This morning , I got a call from some BCCI member that there is a judge JN Patel. I know he was a very upright judge when he was here. He had taken very tough responsibilities and had performed very well . " But the issue which I was not aware of. Somebody rang me up from Andhra Pradesh this morning , saying the BCCI 's interim president Shivlal Yadav and Patel are close relatives. Brother-in-law or something like that. I do n't know . " If the news is correct , then the people will judge. Generally , I have seen many times ( that ) a judge , if there is some lawyer who is close to him is there , will immediately recuse himself from the case , " Pawar said . " I am sure that knowing fully well Justice Patel 's reputation , he will not allow this type of a thing , " he added . Pawar , a former president of the International Cricket Council , also questioned the eligibility of Shastri to be a member of the probe panel because of the conflict of interest issue as the player-turned-commentator has got a financial contract with BCCI . " Ravi Shastri is a good player. In fact , when I was BCCI chief ( 2005-08 ) , we signed a contract with him and Sunil Gavaskar. So , he had a financial contract with BCCI. Now , someone says how can a person who has got a financial contract with BCCI , become part of an inquiry committee of BCCI chief , " he said . " I have no reservation about Shastri 's integrity , his honesty. But definitely , anybody can raise the issue. And that is why , a sensible person will try to keep away from this ( probe panel ) . " Asked if Shastri should dissociate himself , Pawar said , " He has a financial contract ( with BCCI ) . That is not the case with Patel. " On allegations against former IPL chief Lalit Modi and embattled BCCI chief N Srinivasan , who has been ordered by the SC to step aside when the IPL probe is on , Pawar said , " I do n't think Modi has done any harm. Unfortunately , about Srinivasan , I have n't got any details. But whatever action has been taken recently was essentially taken by judiciary . " It was the Supreme Court which said that 'A ' should not be there and that 'B ' should be there. There were certain complaints and judiciary felt that these complaints should be investigated , " Pawar said . Pawar talked in glowing terms about Srinivasan 's predecessor Shashank Manohar , who was once part of the NCP chief 's core team which overthrew Jagmohan Dalmiya from BCCI. Pawar called Manohar a good administrator . " Manohar is a good administrator. He has no personal interest. His genuine interest is in the game. I accept that whatever he says will always be in the interest of the game. Manohar 's performance as an administrator was in a very straight forward and transparent manner , " he said . Though bedevilled with myriad problems since its inception in 2008 when he was the BCCI chief , Pawar was upbeat about the future of the cash-rich IPL . " I think IPL is doing well. I have not been able to follow it because of these elections. IPL is a product developed by India , by the BCCI when I was its president , " Pawar said . " IPL has been accepted by the global cricketing community and all cricketing countries are part of IPL , which is watched not only in India but outside too , " he said , adding , " This is the great contribution of Indian cricket and BCCI. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
