PCB defends Waqar 's appointment as Pakistan coach The author has posted comments on this article AFP | May 9 , 2014 , 10.26PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 LAHORE : Pakistan cricket chiefs on Friday defended their decision to appoint fast bowling legend Waqar Younis as head coach , after former interim coach Mohsin Khan lashed out at the decision . The Pakistan Cricket Board had on Tuesday handed Waqar a two-year contract for a second stint in the top job -- without interviewing the other six applicants , including Khan . Khan hit out at the PCB on Thursday , saying he was a " deserving candidate " , and he is now likely to challenge the appointment in court . But PCB chiefs said the board had agreed that Waqar was " better suited to take the team forward " . The 42-year-old played 87 Tests and 262 one-day internationals for Pakistan and held the job of national team coach from February 2010 to September 2011 . " Waqar has regularly been associated with Pakistan cricket and commentating on the game as well , " PCB management committee member Zaheer Abbas told a press conference . " The PCB thought that Waqar was better suited to take the team forward " he said " . He added that Khan 's strengths and weaknesses , like Waqar 's , were already well known to cricket chiefs . " As a procedure we usually interview candidates about whom we have no or little information. But Khan 's case was different -- he is quite familiar to us and we are aware of his strengths and weaknesses , " he said . As temporary coach , Khan guided Pakistan to 3-0 rout of then number one England in 2012 before he was replaced by Australian coach Dav Whatmore . PCB director Intikhab Alam said Khan had the right to take his case to the court . " It is everyone 's right to take a matter to court -- so if Khan wants to take it to court , it is his right. But the PCB will not be taking this matter to court , " he told reporters . Waqar 's first assignment will be a two Test and three one-day series in Sri Lanka in July-August this year . Pakistan also plays full series against Australia and New Zealand in United Arab Emirates from October to December . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
