PCB to announce new ODI captain The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 25 , 2015 , 09.30PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 KARACHI : PCB Chairman Shaharyar Khan on Wednesday said that the board would announce a new captain of the national One-day side and a new selection committee in a couple of days . " In the past we did n't have a vice captain but this time we might also appoint a vice captain. Honestly there is no obvious choice but yes Misbah-ul-Haq met me and has given his recommendation , " Khan told reporters in Lahore . Khan said the Board had to take quick decisions because of the upcoming tour to Bangladesh . " Although they are some financial and security issues still to be sorted out over the Bangladesh tour but it is likely to start in third week of April so we do n't have much time on hand to move forward. " Khan said he was and would be consulting with former Test players , former heads of the board and other stake holders on the future line of action for Pakistan cricket . He indicated that Misbah might continue as the Test captain for the time being. He said whoever was appointed ODI captain would not be given a specific term . Khan however made it clear that the PCB will appoint a new chief selector and committee , confirming that it had ended its contract with former Test captain Moin Khan who was called back home from the World Cup after visiting a Casino the night before the match against West Indies in Christchurch . Asked if the board would consider any of the former players who had sat on different channels and lashed out at the national team and board , Khan said his preference would be to go for people who have no political or personal agenda . Fawad Alam and Sohaib Maqsood are considered to be front runners for the ODI captaincy while there is also a strong lobby in favour of giving experienced all-rounder Shoaib Malik another shot at the captaincy . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
