Pietersen return could 'tear apart ' England : Buchanan The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 27 , 2015 , 10.52PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Recalling sacked Kevin Pietersen could " tear apart the fabric " of the England team because the batsman is like a child who wants to get his own way , according to former Australia coach John Buchanan . Pietersen , sacked in February 2014 following England 's 5-0 Ashes whitewash in Australia , joined Surrey on Wednesday in an attempt to earn an international recall after receiving encouragement from new English cricket chief Colin Graves . But Buchanan , who won three Ashes and two World Cups as Australia coach from 1999 to 2007 , believes the ECB must stick to their original decision . " A decision was made for good reasons , " Buchanan told the BBC. " Leadership is about sticking by that decision . " Various things have torn at the fabric of the England team and that has certainly been one of them . " There has been a clear decision made by the ECB about where Pietersen fits in the English camp. Let them stick by the decision , draw that line in the sand and say this is what we really stand for. " Pietersen , who scored 8,181 runs in 104 Tests , has spoken with incoming England and Wales Cricket Board chairman Graves about his return , but national selector James Whitaker said last week the South African-born batsman was not in their plans . " You will always have people like Pietersen that are game changers and they are usually difficult to handle because they are quite selfish , " Buchanan said . " It 's like when you are a parent with a child. The child does n't get his way from mum so then he goes to dad and asks dad . " And if he still does n't get the answer then he plays both of them off against each other. If he does n't get his own way he certainly causes a bit of mayhem in the meantime. " Buchanan also said under-pressure England coach Peter Moores should remain in charge for this year 's Ashes series despite a dismal showing at the World Cup in which they were knocked out in the group stage . " He needs to be judged not just on results because there will be a number of things he is doing behind the scenes that the public do n't see , " Buchanan said . " He needs to be given time and support. Then let 's sit back and watch that unfold and then see how he and the team perform. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
