Pietersen salutes 'genuine guru ' Dravid in autobiography The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Oct 12 , 2014 , 02.50PM IST In his autobiography , Pietersen refers repeatedly to an e-mail Dravid wrote to him about playing spinners which made a massive difference to him. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Maverick England batsman Kevin Pietersen struggled to get along with coaches of his own team most of his playing career and his quest for a " genuine guru " ended in faraway India where , he says , former captain Rahul Dravid made a lasting impact on his technique . In his autobiography 'KP ' released here this week , Pietersen refers repeatedly to an e-mail the Indian batting legend wrote to him about playing spinners which made a massive difference to him . " Rahul was a great and heroic Indian batsman in his day. He is also a genius at dealing with spin bowlers. Our conversations and emails were a private masterclass from a genuine guru , " Pietersen writes in the book . " Rahul improved my cricket and helped me develop the way I think about the game. His generosity will stay with me always. " In the email quoted by Pietersen , Dravid refers to him as a " champ " and goes on to give him a pep talk : " KP , you are a really good player , you need to watch the ball and trust yourself... Do n't let anyone tell you that you ca n't play spin , I have seen you and you can ! " Pietersen wrote that he often reads this particular email and it beings a smile to his face . " My playing of spin has gone up a number of levels since I 've spent time in the IPL , and in particular , since I 've spoken to Rahul Dravid...In England , batsmen get taught to play with the spin against spin bowlers. In India , the best players of spin get taught to play against it , " he adds . The South African-born cricketer has created a stir among the England cricket establishment with claims of bullying within the English dressing room , led by the then coach Andy Flower . It has led to England captain Alastair Cook accusing him of tarnishing a successful era for the squad . In his autobiography , Pietersen is outspoken about the unfriendliness of his teammates and is all praise for the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) for the " adrenalin rush " and bonding atmosphere . " The IPL is the future... I could talk about money and the IPL all day to you , but for the friendships alone I would play for free , " says the Delhi Daredevils player . " I 've built all my relationships with foreign cricketers while in the IPL. That does n't help in the England dressing room... there are not many of those friendships , " he adds . Pietersen also claims the general culture towards the game of cricket is better in the sub-continent and describes Indian players as " free spirits " who truly love cricket . " There is a culture in India that appreciates if you double down and go for the big shot. It 's a game of cricket , not economics. Not life or death. Take a risk. IPL crowds do n't want to see you batting out singles as you pick and choose which balls to hit. Life is too short , " he writes . Pietersen 's England team career effectively ended in February this year when his central contract with the England and Wales Cricket Board ( ECB ) was terminated . In the book , he expresses a desire to return to Test cricket and says he would " jump at the chance " to play for England again . But IPL is where he seems to have found his true home : " The IPL is professionalism taken to its logical extreme. All the bullshit and hypocrisy have been turned off. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
