Playing TN will be abnormal : Badrinath The author has posted comments on this article Prasad RS , TNN | Feb 11 , 2015 , 05.13PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : With 573 runs from 8 outings at an impressive 57.30 on his 'debut ' season for Vidarbha , skipper S Badrinath has been hugely credited for turning the side 's fortunes in the ongoing Ranji Trophy season. Come February 16 , and life will come a full circle for Badri , whose side will lock horns with his former team Tamil Nadu in the Ranji knockouts at Jaipur . Not surprisingly , the first thing Badri did once the tournament schedule came out at the start of the season was to check the likelihood of locking horns with Tamil Nadu . Badri , who came back late on Monday night for a couple of days break , was looking forward to the knockout clash. " I knew there would come a time when I will have to face Tamil Nadu once the shift to Vidarbha was made last year. It will definitely be abnormal for me , " said Badri , while speaking to TOI . But the domestic batting stalwart felt once he stepped on the field , it would be business as usual. " Being a professional cricketer , I will strive to give my best for the side. Nothing less than that , " he said . What is the biggest difference he has witnessed in the Vidarbha and Tamil Nadu line-up ? " I feel Tamil Nadu team is blessed with experience as they have players of the quality of M Vijay , Abhinav Mukund , Dinesh Karthik , and L Balaji among others , " Badri said . While Badri 's leadership skills with Vidarbha have come for rich praise from all quarters , the 34-year-old labeled the side 's success to its all-round performance. " Three of our batsman -- G Satish , Shalabh Shrivastava and me have scored over 500 runs in the tournament. Our bowlers ---- Shrikant Wagh and Ravikumar Thakur too have shone with the ball , " said Badri . Whilst he changed the mindset of the Vidarbha side , Badri admitted there have been a few changes for him personally as well. " My Hindi has improved a lot. My wife was surprised when she saw me listening to Hindi songs. On a serious note , I made a conscious effort to speak with the players in Hindi , " revealed Badri . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
