PM resigns as GCA chief , Shah tipped to replace him The author has posted comments on this article Ajit Bezbaruah , TNN | May 31 , 2014 , 10.01AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AHMEDABAD : Newly elected Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi resigned as the president of Gujarat Cricket Association ( GCA ) on Friday afternoon . Confirming the news , GCA secretary Rajesh Patel said that he has received the resignation letter from the PM and has called for a Special General Body Meeting on June 13 to elect the new president . This is the fourth resignation tendered by Modi after stepping into PMO. He had earlier resigned from the post of Chief Minister of Gujarat , MLA of Maninagar assembly constituency and recently , he also quit the Vadodara Lok Sabha seat . Highly placed sources in the GCA said Modi 's Man Friday , Amit Shah , could assume charge as the next GCA chief. Shah is currently one of the four vice-presidents of GCA. The other three being Parimal Nathwani , Kanhaialal Contractor and Kanti Desai . Though Patel was tightlipped and refused to confirm the news saying : " It will be decided in the Special General Body Meeting on June 13 " reports indicated that the GCA members had unanimously voted for Shah as president . It was Shah , who ended Narhari Amin 's 16-year reign as the GCA boss on September 16 , 2009. Modi , who was the Gujarat Chief Minister for the second successive term during that period was later unanimously elected GCA chief . As GCA vice-president , Shah has been regularly attending key BCCI meetings. With West Zone representative Ravi Savant 's tenure coming to an end , there is every possibility of Shah becoming the vice-president of BCCI when new members of the Board take over in September . With Modi as PM and N Srinivasan 's future as BCCI chief looking increasingly bleak , the Board may see a new set of office-bearers with Shah likely to assume a key position in cricket administration . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
