'Popular ' Yuvraj Singh fails to make World Cup cut The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Jan 7 , 2015 , 10.04AM IST The fact that both Jadeja and Axar Patel are also left-hand batsmen and left-arm slow bowlers might have gone against unlucky Yuvraj. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 It was a typically hot Chennai evening when Yuvraj Singh walked in for the press conference after scoring a match-winning century against West Indies in the last group league match of the 2011 World Cup. India were far from impressive till then and the prospect of a quarterfinal against Australia was looming . Yuvraj , wiping sweat off his forehead , got irritated when somebody mentioned the threat of facing the three-time defending champions. " You ca n't win a World Cup without beating the best...Bring on the Aussies , " Yuvi thundered , and in a few days ' time , he walked the talk. Yuvraj batted and bowled the way only he could and India were on their way towards the fairytale of April 2 . Four years down the line , a lot has changed. Yuvraj is no longer the same player and the BCCI had already indicated that they were not considering him for the World Cup by leaving him out of the list of 30 probables . Yet , on the eve of the selection , it was Yuvi who was the talk of the town. Had it been the case of a national mandate on the basis of ballots , fans would have easily sent him to Australia. But an Indian team selection does n't work on public sentiment. It 's all about numbers , current form , the assessment of the selectors and of course , what MS Dhoni feels about the situation . It was Dhoni who played a role in Yuvraj 's return to the T20 World Cup team in Bangladesh in early 2014. He played Yuvi in every game and it was going well but it all went topsy-turvy in the final against Sri Lanka when the left-hander could n't put bat to ball after India reached 100 in 12 overs . Over the next six overs , India managed 20-odd with Yuvraj scratching around as Dhoni and Suresh Raina sat in the dug-out quietly waiting for their turn to bat. India lost that game and people in the know said that it might have been the last Yuvraj had played in national colours . He has n't after that evening but the feisty Punjab all-rounder has defied a few odds in life and came close to doing one all over again. The injury to Ravindra Jadeja , the need to find an effective all-rounder and the back-to-back centuries in Ranji Trophy had suddenly brought the focus back on Yuvraj ahead of the selection. Even Sourav Ganguly , who had ruled out the likes of Yuvi , Harbhajan Singh and Virender Sehwag for the World Cup a couple of months back , saw merit in the left-hander 's chances . But the team management and the selection committee thought otherwise. The fact that both Jadeja and Axar Patel are also left-hand batsmen and left-arm slow bowlers might have gone against unlucky Yuvraj . THEY ALSO MISSED THE BUS Mohit Sharma : The hard-working and skilled paceman was pipped by more experienced seamers like Shami and the pacy Umesh. The CSK seamer is more crafty but selectors may have felt four seamers were enough for Australia and New Zealand . Robin Uthappa : The Karnataka opener has scored tons of runs at the top of the order last year but the squad already features three ODI openers in Rohit , Shikhar and Rahane. Rayudu 's ability to double up as a keeper pipped Uthappa in this department as well . Murali Vijay : The TN opener has been in fantastic form in Test in Australia but a modest One-day record -an average of 19.46 in 14 games -went against him. Also , the selectors may have felt that the team was overflowing with openers . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
