Power play : Even cuts ca n't deny Shami 's Sahaspur village The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Mar 19 , 2015 , 11.16AM IST At the World Cup , Mohammed Shami has been exceeding all expectations. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SAHASPUR ( Amroha ) : The favourite gadget at Mohammed Shami 's childhood home is the inverter. Like most parts of Uttar Pradesh , Sahaspur village gets only eight-ten hours of electricity every day. And for his father Tauseef Ahmed , the difference between agony and ecstasy is a fully-charged inverter that enables him to watch his son 's heroic exploits in the ongoing cricket World Cup. Just in case anything goes wrong , he has also bought a generator . Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 These days , it 's been mostly ecstasy for Tauseef , a well-heeled farmer with 22 acres of land where a pack of mango and guava ( " Shami 's favourite fruit " ) orchards thrive. He has n't missed a moment of a Team India game. Neither has Shami 's mother ; cooking can wait. Passionate about cricket as much as his son , Tauseef enjoys describing how his son dismissed the West Indies blunderbuss , Chris Gayle , with a bouncer. " Whenever he calls from Australia , I tell him , keep playing well. Apna aur apne desh ka naam roshan karo , " he says . At the World Cup , the fast bowler has been exceeding all expectations. With shortened strides - as suggested by former Pakistan tearaway Shoiab Akhtar - leading to better control over his line and length , he has emerged India 's wrecker-in-chief and the second highest wicket-taker in the group stage. Shami 's 15 wickets have come at an incredibly low average of 12.60 ; only Mitchell Starc has scalped one more . " I want him to be the highest wicket-taker when the WC is over , " says Mohd Arshad , a 14-year-old from the same village. He does n't look the part but Arshad claims to be a fast bowler. Call it the Shami Effect , barring one , every kid in Sahaspur claims to be a fast bowler. Each one says he received tips on the art of fast bowling from Shami when he last visited home around September. Shami now lives in a swank apartment in South City Kolktata but they all hone their craft on the same village pitch where their hero first learnt to bowl fast . Nearby there 's a specially-constructed cement pitch , now looked at with the fondness of a dying monument , where Shami used to bowl during monsoons. " He used charpois to stop the ball from going into the field behind the stumps where crops grew. His mother often complained that he was damaging the charpois , " recalls Badruddin Siddiqui , Shami 's first coach. Badruddin remains in touch with his star ward. " We keep exchanging notes on WhatsApp , " he says . Shami 's fandom spreads way beyond Sahaspur. " When he first arrived here after his ODI debut against Pakistan in 2013 , at least 50,000 people from the area gathered to greet him , " says Tauseef . The paceman is more identified with Moradabad , about 21 km from his home , where he learnt the ropes from Badruddin. But Sahaspur is actually part of Amroha district.Interestingly , the village is poised between two constituencies which elected former Test cricketers to LokSabha. Amroha elected Chetan Chauhan twice on a BJP ticket and Mohd Azharuddin won the Moradabad seat as a Congress politician in 2009 . A move to construct a stadium in Amroha is afoot. Amroha DM Ved Prakash told TOI over phone that a delegation of BSP politicians have petitioned him that it should be named after Shami . Tauseef is happy but he says that the state administration must provide more attention to set up infrastructure for those who want to build a career in sports. " We must think of the future , " he says . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
