Pressure is on Pakistan as they have n't won against us : Rohit Sharma The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 7 , 2015 , 05.43PM IST " Any World Cup game will be an important one and the first game wo n't be any different. We will give our fans some happy memories to go back with , " Rohit Sharma said. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Star opener Rohit Sharma feels that arch-rivals Pakistan who will be " under pressure " going into the opening match of the ICC World Cup as they have never won against India at the mega event . " The pressure will be on them rather than us. They are the ones , who have not won a game against us in the World Cup. We will try and use it to our advantage , " Rohit told the mediapersons at India 's Open Session on Saturday . Not denying that Pakistan match will be a huge affair , Rohit wants that fans go back with happy memories and they will prepare to the best of their abilities to win the game . " It will be a big game against Pakistan. But we need to concentrate more on the process rather than taking it as an India-Pakistan game. The result will take care of itself if we concentrate on the process and we know what we need to do to be at our best . " Any World Cup game will be an important one and the first game wo n't be any different. We will give our fans some happy memories to go back with. " For Rohit , wearing the India jersey is a good enough motivation for any player and it ca n't get bigger than the World Cup . " Once you wear the Indian jersey , it is motivation enough to go and perform on the field. If you are not motivated enough wearing the Indian jersey , then you are just doing yourself a favour by showing up on the ground. " It will be Rohit 's first ODI World Cup having missed the bus during the last edition in India. Talking about early World Cup memories , Rohit recollected Ajay Jadeja 's diving catch to dismiss Allan Border in Brisbane during the 1992 World Cup . " I still remember the catch Ajay Jadeja took in the 1992 World Cup to dismiss Alan Border and it is my oldest World Cup memory , " he says . " I remember watching it on TV and that was the time the World Cup fever was growing in India. Also , the India-Pakistan match at Centurion in 2003 is the best I have ever watched Sachin Tendulkar bat. You could feel the heat. Even though I was not playing the game I could feel it . " It was good to watch that game and it is something I will never forget. Right from the toss till the last ball , everything was intense and I could n't take my eyes off the TV , " Rohit fondly recollected . Rohit also spoke about the 2011 victory , a tournament in which he missed the bus after not being selected . " When it comes to the most recent one , it has to be the final of the 2011 World Cup in Mumbai. I was not part of the side but it was good to watch the boys lift the World Cup. It is something that is going to remain in our memories forever since it was played at home. " He did admit that there 's a bit of nerves being a part of the team in the biggest cricketing spectacle . " Now , being a part of the team , there are a bit of nerves but also excitement at the same time. I am looking forward to the warm-up game tomorrow ( against Australia ) which will also be my first World Cup experience. I missed out on the last World Cup in India and I am keen to make this one count and make it big without putting much pressure on myself , " he says . Being Australia for two months has been some sort of an advantage for India , feels Rohit . " Before the start of the World Cup , we knew that it would be an advantage playing in Australia. Now that we have been here for such a long time , we ca n't make excuses of conditions and pitches. We know the conditions better than any other team other than Australia here. It is now up to us to make use of it in the best possible way. We know our success formula and we would try to let it reflect in the World Cup. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
