Proud of 'my love, ' says Virat The author has posted comments on this article Kashika Saxena , TNN | Mar 19 , 2015 , 03.39PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Bang in the midst of the World Cup , Virat finds time to watch Anushka 's film , and then declares to the world how proud he is of his 'love ' - finally coming onto the front foot after months of dodging this delivery . Ladies , the next time your boyfriend ignores you during supposedly life-changing sporting events , direct him to Virat Kohli 's Twitter account. Because if the guy whom India has pinned all its hopes and dreams on for this World Cup can find the time to watch his girlfriend 's movie two days before the quarterfinal , your boyfriend can find the time to reply to that text. And Virat did n't just watch the movie , he also took to Twitter to say how much he loved it. His declaration of love , which has been retweeted about 10,000 times , also makes it finally official - Virat Kohli and Anushka Sharma are in a relationship . It was n't always like this , though. For a long time , Virat-Anushka followed in the footsteps of their seniors like Harbhajan Singh-Geeta Basra , Zaheer Khan-Isha Sharvani and Yuvraj Singh-many actresses , neither confirming nor denying anything , or playing the tiresome game of we 're-just-good-friends . Here 's a look at the five stages of the Virat-Anushka relationship . Denial When Virat and Anushka started hanging out after doing a shampoo ad together , everyone just assumed that they were dating. And as is the case with most celebrity relationships , they denied everything. Soon after , there was photographic evidence of the couple being together - from Virat going to Anushka 's house straight from the airport after returning from South Africa , to the couple being spotted holding hands in New Zealand. Even then , when Anushka appeared on Koffee With Karan , she denied dating him and said she felt " naked " after Karan Johar 's gruelling interrogation . SRK 's intervention In April last year , because Shah Rukh Khan is light years ahead of all of us , he hosted a mock swayamvar for Virat at the IPL opening party. He had posters of many actresses brought up on stage , and Virat ended up choosing Anushka. SRK then made him wear Anushka 's poster on his neck. But there was still no confirmation. The couple , meanwhile , seemed to spend all their free time together , with Virat even visiting Jodhpur to celebrate Anushka 's birthday with her . Anushka = distraction for Virat ? During the Indian cricket team 's tour to England last year , it became clearer as to why the couple would n't want to acknowledge their relationship , since Anushka was blamed by disappointed fans for Virat 's bad form. It was also reported that some members of the BCCI partly blamed the WAGs for the team 's loss. After this , Virat and Anushka made even more public appearances together , including one at a Mumbai nightclub and another where Anushka was seen cheering for Virat 's football club . Sealed with a kiss In November last year , perhaps realizing that haters gon na hate regardless of what they do , Virat decided to throw caution to the winds and blew a kiss to Anushka , who was in the stands , after reaching 6,000 runs in ODIs. Next month , when he was in Melbourne to play in the India-Australia Test series , and Anushka was with him , he blew another kiss to her after scoring a century. During the same Test series , Anushka was also referred to as 'Virat Kohli 's wife ' by presenter Michael Slater during his commentary , which was soon rectified to 'Virat 's 'fiancee'. Foretelling , much ? It 's finally 'all clear ' as Virat tweets about his 'love ' Anushka A series of acceptances , and the tweet Towards the end of 2014 , the couple stopped caring about appearances and told everyone to use some common sense. Virat said , " If you are seen together somewhere and still people ask 'is it confirmed ? ' , then it is a matter of common sense. " Even as this statement practically blew the cover on many celebrity relationships , Anushka said , " We are just being two normal young people in a relationship , but being public figures , the relationship becomes a topic of entertainment and for me , it is not that. For me , it is very , very pure. I do n't want to put it out there to be discussed over a cup of coffee. " But maybe Virat disagreed , and boy , was he ready to put it all out there ! Earlier this month , Virat abused a journalist who he believed had written something about him and Anushka. By the time he realized that it was a case of mistaken identity , the damage was done. But the world loves a lover , so when Virat tweeted about 'his love ' Anushka on Tuesday , all was forgiven. And even as Anushka replied with a slightly less vocal " Thank You. SO happy , " girlfriends across the country asked their boyfriends to keep the remote down and take note . Other Bolly-cricket relationships kept under wraps Unlike young Bollywood now , cricketers have never been open about their girlfriends. And perhaps for good reason , since WAGs have often been cited as the reason for 'distracting ' our cricketers. Here are some other cricketer-actress jodis who have never been as open as Virat-Anushka in their display of affection : Yuvraj Singh and multiple actresses Yuvraj is probably the one cricketer who 's ( been rumoured to have ) dated many actresses , and he 's almost always denied these link-ups. While rumours about Preity Zinta and Deepika Padukone ( who was also linked with MS Dhoni ) were short-lived , his four-year-long relationship with Kim Sharma was the most talked about. After they broke up , Kim refused to explain the reason , saying , " It 's not that I want to hide something. It 's like wearing a revealing outfit - you are fine when it 's decent , but you tend to cover it up when it looks a bit obscene. " Once when Yuvraj was asked about how he reacts to rumours about his romance ( with model Aanchal Kumar at the time ) , he 'd said , " Obviously , I was angry , but then I 've learnt to stay cool... I know what the truth is. I do n't believe in justifications or clarifications. " Other actresses linked with Yuvraj include Neha Dhupia , Minissha Lamba , Riya Sen and Preeti Jhangiani . Harbhajan Singh and Geeta Basra The couple has been rumoured to be dating for years now , though on many occasions , Geeta has clarified that she has " never denied that we 're friends. " Harbhajan , though , recently said that he 'll soon give some good news to his fans , but on being asked if it 's about getting married to Geeta , he said , " Yaar , I do n't ask anyone else their husband or boyfriend 's name. Why do people ask me ? It can be any girl. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
