Rahane , Ashwin in fray to become Virat Kohli 's deputy The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jan 1 , 2015 , 06.47PM IST According to the sources Rahane , who is now a permanent fixture across all three formats looks to be a front-runner but Ashwin by virtue of his seniority can not be ruled out altogether. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The sudden decision of Mahendra Singh Dhoni to retire from Test cricket has also given rise to a question as to who will be Virat Kohli 's deputy with the names of Ajinkya Rahane and Ravichandran Ashwin emerging as possible candidates . READ ALSO : Dhoni missing from India team 's photos with Australian PM " It will be interesting to see what is the choice of selection committee led by Sandeep Patil and the feedback that they get from Team Director Ravi Shastri. Ravi 's point of view will be key in this regard. As of now , the two players who are in with a chance are Rahane and Ashwin , " a BCCI source in the know of things told PTI on Thursday . According to the sources Rahane , who is now a permanent fixture across all three formats looks to be a front-runner but Ashwin by virtue of his seniority can not be ruled out altogether . READ ALSO : A new year and a new era under Virat Kohli " What works for Rahane is his calm demeanour which could possibly complement Kohli 's aggressive intent. They could prove to be ideal foil for each other. Also Rahane has the performance to merit that place ( 1026 runs in 13 Tests with 3 centuries ) , " the official said . Indian batsman Ajinkya Rahane plays a shot during the third day of third Test match against Australia in Melbourne. ( AP Photo ) While 28-year-old Ashwin is senior in terms of number of Test matches ( 23 Tests , 114 wickets , 956 runs ) , there have been times when he has not found a place in the playing XI in Test matches in overseas conditions . India 's next overseas assignment will be a Test series in Bangladesh , post IPL and before that there is only tri-series and ICC World Cup where Mahendra Singh Dhoni will be leading the side . As per BCCI functioning , there is no official vice-captain when India play a home series. More than a rule , it 's a convention but there is always a designated vice-captain when they are on overseas tours . During the ongoing tour of Australia , there was one warm-up game where Ishant Sharma led the team for a session as Virat Kohli and a few others were taking rest having attended Phillip Hughes ' funeral in Sydney . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
