Rahane ton leads Indian fightback on Day 1 The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jul 17 , 2014 , 11.24PM IST India 's Ajinkya Rahane celebrates his century during the first day of the second Test. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : A defiant Ajinkya Rahane struck a commanding 103 to pull India out of trouble after a mid-innings collapse on a lively Lord 's track , as the visitors ended the first day 's play at 290 for nine in the second Test on Thursday . Picking up the pieces from 145 for seven in the final session , Rahane , notching up his second Test ton in 7 matches , stitched up a 90-run eight-wicket partnership with Bhuvneshwar Kumar ( 36 ) to give the visitors respect on a day dominated by the England seamers . Rahane , who brought up his century with a boundary off Stuart Broad ( 2/79 ) , was authoritative in his strokeplay as the number-five batsman hit 15 fours and a six in his 154-ball stay at the crease . Pace spearhead James Anderson ( 4/55 ) it was who led England the charge as the hosts made merry on a seaming track after skipper Alastair Cook won the toss and had no hesitations in bowling first . Putting the Ravindra Jadeja controversy aside , a determined Anderson became the highest wicket-taker in England , surpassing fast-bowling legend Fred Trueman when he accounted for Shikhar Dhawan ( 7 ) in the morning session . Anderson has has managed to get 233 scalps of his overall 363 wickets on English soil with Trueman ( 229 ) and former skipper Ian Botham ( 226 ) behind him . Rahane was Anderson 's final scalp of the day after a quick-reflex return catch ended the batsman 's exceptional innings on a green-top wicket . Post-tea , Rahane -- 26 not out -- had continued his partnership with Stuart Binny ( 9 ) , but the duo could n't carry on together for long. They had just 5 runs after the break when he lost his partner to Anderson , trapped LBW. It was then that India experienced their most productive batting stand of the day . The Bhuvi-Rahane duo started by bringing up the 150-run mark quickly and then was helped by some bad bowling from England in the third session . Rahane brought up his half-century off 101 balls , with 7 fours , and then the 50-run partnership came up in the 75th over of the day. An over later they brought up India 's 200 , something that looked improbable in the post-lunch session . England took the new ball and broke the partnership in the 82nd over , with Kumar bowled by Broad ( 2-79 ) after his 84-ball stay , laced with 7 fours ) . Mohammed Shami ( 14 not out ) and Ishant Sharma ( 12 not out ) hung on in the final few overs to frustrate the England bowlers . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
