Ranji Trophy : Gugale 's 174 bolsters hosts Maharashtra The author has posted comments on this article Tushar Dutt , TNN | Jan 22 , 2015 , 11.39AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 PUNE : When Gautam Gambhir put hosts Maharashtra in to bat , he never thought his team 's loudest celebration would come in the 79th over . Not that Delhi did n't take wickets till then on the opening day of the Group B Ranji Trophy match at the Gahunje stadium . Maharashtra were 272-5 at tea. However , the most cherished wicket for the visitors fell when opener Swapnil Gugale got out on 174 , his maiden first-class hundred , well past tea . He hit 23 fours and two sixes in his 243-ball innings. His previous best of 56 came in the preceding innings against Rajasthan last week . Maharashtra ended the day at a healthy 312-6 with Chirag Khurana ( 55 n.o. ) and Shrikant Mundhe ( 16 n.o. ) . Though the hosts gave away some easy wickets , they still managed to put up a decent score on the board , thanks to Gugale . The turnaround happened after the hosts were left struggling at 166-5. After the early departure of Harshad Khadiwale , 23-year-old Gugale held one end . He not only kept the scoreboard ticking , but also stitched important partnerships of 59 runs and 106 runs with skipper Rohit Motwani and Khurana respectively . Khurana gave the much-needed support that Gugale was looking for. If Khurana and Shrikant Mundhe bat for an hour or more on Thursday , the hosts could well feel happy about losing the toss . Earlier , No. 3 Motwani reached 65 before getting out in a gawky way. Delhi wicketkeeper Rahul Yadav showed presence of mind to run him out after an lbw appeal was turned down off left-arm spinner Manan Sharma. The batsman was not particularly keen to get back inside his crease . Last season 's highest runscorer , Kedar Jadhav ( 6 ) continued his disappointing run. He got out lbw off left-arm spinner Varun Sood on a track which offered him a chance to find his form . Ankit Bawne ( 18 ) appeared unfortunate to be given out lbw off mediumpacer Rajat Bhatia. Rahul Tripathi ( 11 ) was another disappointment . Delhi skipper Gautam Gambhir shuffled around six bowlers with the frontline bowlers getting less than 15 overs in the day .Though paceman Sumit Narwal bowled tight , Maharashtra batsmen faced no big threats . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
