Tri-Series : India , England Face-off in Knockout Tie for Final Tri-Series : India , England Face-off in Knockout Tie for Final India ( 2 points ) take on England ( 5 points ) on Friday. Winner faces hosts Australia in the final of the triseries . Last updated on Thursday , 29 January , 2015 21 : 15 IST Total Shares India and England in action during Triseries in Australia . © AFP India and England clash on Friday in Perth with the winners taking their place in the triseries final against Australia in the shadow of the looming World Cup. ( Team India keeping a close eye on Rohit Sharma 's recovery ) The hosts are enjoying extra time to prepare for Sunday 's final at Perth 's WACA ground while the tourists go at each other again. ( Shikhar Dhawan , a flat-track bully exposed Down Under ? ) England thrashed India by nine wickets in their last encounter and ran Australia close in their second meeting last week in Brisbane. ( Stuart Broad says sorry for minimum wage tweet ) And that has put captain Eoin Morgan in confident mood ahead of the World Cup which England kick off against Australia in Melbourne on February 14 . Morgan says he fancies another crack at Australia before the big event . " The opportunity to play Australia on Sunday is huge , " he said Thursday . Learning how to live with lengthy breaks before important matches could prove critical for the World Cup , which carries on till March 29 , Morgan added . " Having too much cricket on your mind can sometimes create an issue . " The less guys have to think about it , the better . " And the more we can get used to time off going into the World Cup , it would be really useful . " I mean we 'll have stages like this throughout the World Cup that we 'll need to get ourselves ready for. " For India , hamstrung batsman Rohit Sharma , who has n't played since scoring 138 against Australia at the MCG on Jan 18 , will again be missing . But Sharma , who trained in Perth on Thursday , could be fit for the final if India get through . India are winless in the series so far , but skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni feels his team are slowly building after comprehensively losing the Test series to Australia . Opening batsman Shikhar Dhawan has suffered a poor tour and is under pressure to hold his place for the World Cup after averaging just 17 across 11 innings in Test , one-day and warm-up matches . But Dhoni is backing the 29-year-old to find some form on Friday . " Form is something people do n't really see - it 's an abstract , " Dhoni claimed . " You can come into form and go out of form very quickly . " You just have to spend that 10 to 12 minutes of quality time in the middle , and everything will fall into place . " What 's important for him will be to be himself , and bat to his strength. " Story first published on : Thursday , 29 January 2015 13 : 24 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
