Ranji Trophy : Tamil Nadu crawl to 192/3 at Eden The author has posted comments on this article Archiman Bhaduri , TNN | Feb 26 , 2015 , 11.27AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : The way Tamil Nadu batted on the opening day of their five-day Ranji Trophy semifinal against Maharashtra , it seemed as if they are strong believers in the adage 'slow but steady wins the race.' Having opted to bat first after winning the toss at the Eden Gardens , Tamil Nadu crawled to 192 for 3 at stumps on Wednesday . Openers Abhinav Mukund and Murali Vijay were understandably cautious to start with , but strangely did n't open up even after seeing off the new ball and the tricky first hour . That was the policy of all their batsmen almost throughout the day as TN scored at around two runs per over. It was only a late flourish from Vijay Shankar that helped TN raise the tempo a bit and cross the 150-run mark . However , credit should be given to the Maharashtra pacers as all four of them maintained a tight line and length on a pitch which did n't offer any assistance . Both openers batted for about two hours , but never got on top of the bowling. The pressure perhaps got to lefthander Mukund who , in trying to force the pace , was caught at deep square leg by Chirag Khurana off Anupam Sanklecha for 23 . Current India opener Vijay consumed 109 balls for his 28 before he too lost patience and edged an away-going Dominic Joseph delivery to wicketkeeper after lunch . Vijay Shankar then took charge and started playing his shots. Wicketkeeper-batsman Dinesh Karthik , too , settled down after a circumspect start and the two took the battle to the Maharashtra camp for the first time in the day . They shared an unbroken 102-run fourth-wicket stand with Shankar remaining unbeaten on 56 ( 97b , 7x4 ) and Karthik on 48 ( 156b , 8x4 ) . Brief scores : Tamil Nadu 1923 ( D Karthik batting 48 , V Shankar batting 56 ; S Fallah 148 ) Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
