Ravi Shastri defends Virat Kohli , says his work ethic as good as any The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 31 , 2015 , 01.30PM IST Shastri found much to praise in Kohli 's revival after a disastrous England tour last year. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Defending an under-fire Virat Kohli , Indian team director Ravi Shastri on Tuesday said the swashbuckling batsman 's ordinary run in the World Cup had nothing to do with his actress-girlfriend Anushka Sharma 's presence and to call it that is " utter nonsense " . Vote for TOISA nominee Virat Kohli " If it was so , Virat would n't have got 700 runs and smashed four centuries in Tests in Australia. His work ethics is as good as any I have seen. His heart beats for India. It 's a pedigree you do n't see often. And to tell you the truth , he is n't a finished article yet , " Shastri said . Shastri found much to praise in Kohli 's revival after a disastrous England tour last year when he constantly fell to Jimmy Anderson and company . What is Times of India Sports Awards ( TOISA ) Kohli showed that , " it 's not the size of the dog in fight that matters. It 's the fight in dog that counts , " Shastri said . Shastri also lavished praise on skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni saying that the wicket-keeper batsman will only get better from here on . " He would only get better now that he has retired from Test cricket. He would be fitter and would have time to work on his batting. He would still have a lot of time to torture bowlers around the world , " he said . Shastri , a former India captain , said losing the toss in the semifinal against Australia hurt the Indian team . While praising the eventual champions and terming them as " the best side in the tournament " , Shastri still believed that the only team which Australia feared could beat them was India . Steve Smith was a constant thorn in India 's flesh and Shastri had high words of praise for the young Australian batsman . " A lot of teams asked me for weakness in his game. They asked we ( Indians ) ought to know since we have been here for four months. My answer always was : 'let me know his weakness in case you find it' . He has tremendous hand-eye co-ordination , a very sharp cricketing brain and he invariably finds gaps in the field , " Shastri explained . One highlight of India 's performance was the performance of its medium-pace trio of Umesh Yadav , Mohammad Shami and Mohit Sharma . " I call Shami nawab of Kolkata ; Umesh the one of Vidarbha and Mohit Sharma was Haryana Express faster than Rajdhani. They bowled like fast bowlers , " he said . " The Indian medium-pace trio was as good as any in this competition. How many times you see a Hashim Amla and a Younis Khan ducking into a short ball and fending a catch to fielders inside a circle ? They bowled with the mindset of a fast bowler , " he added . Shastri was also all praise for Ravichandran Ashwin who was prepared to give air to the ball even when the rules restricted the protection for him in the deep fields . " His variation of pace was the key to his show , " Shastri said . Shastri said there is immense potential in this young Indian team and predicted that 80 per cent of this nucleus would still be around in four years ' time , in 2019 World Cup . " They are young , fit and hungry. They are ambitious. People do n't realise this tour of Australia has done their confidence a world of good. It would keep them , and India , in good stead. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
