Rayudu rises with maiden ODI hundred The author has posted comments on this article Ajit Bezbaruah , TNN | Nov 7 , 2014 , 11.06AM IST India 's Ambati Rayudu reacts after completing his century during the second ODI against Sri Lanka in Ahmedabad. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 AHMEDABAD : Ambati Rayudu scored his maiden one-day hundred as India put up yet another dominating performance against the visiting Sri Lankans in the second of the five one-dayers at the Motera on Thursday. India won the match by six wickets in 44.3 overs after restricting Sri Lanka to 2748 on a wicket where there was hardly anything for the bowlers . Undoubtedly , it was Rayudu 's day today but before that a few words on Indian bowling which once again showed that it 's very much on track for the upcoming World Cup. India went into the match with two seamers -- Umesh Yadav and Ishant Sharma -- and three spinners -- Ravindra Jadeja , Ravichandran Ashwin and Axar Patel. That they bowled all 50 overs between themselves without using any of their part-timers showed how disciplined and effective the attack was . Yadav gave India a dream start dismissing Kusal Perera for a duck in the very first over of the match. Ishant felt twice on the follow through and did n't pick any wicket but both the seamers showed no signs of being troubled by injuries . The spinners too showed excellent control and never let their guard down. Tilakratne Dilshan and Thisara Perera threatened to spoil Ashwin and Jadeja 's figures respectively at two different stages of the game. But newcomer Axar came to their rescue dismissing both soon after their onslaught . Patel had the best figures among the Indian bowlers on display today. Patel 's 10 overs went for 39 runs and he picked two crucial wickets. After that , it was Rayudu all the way. That he went from 92 to 98 by hitting Suraj Randiv for a huge six over long-on shows the confidence of the man who came a wee bit late on the international stage due to some on and off-the-field issues . Rayudu 's talent was never in doubt. But he showed that he has finally come of age with this innings here. The good things about his innings was the way he paced it. He did n't mind playing second fiddle when Shikhar Dhawan went after the Lankans. Dhawan actually started from where he had left in Cuttack but fell for 79 from 80 balls which had seven fours and one six. After Dhawan 's departure , Rayudu took centrestage with some copybook drives , measured placements and authoritative sixes. He did not show any nervousness as he neared his maiden century . Rayudu put on 103 runs for the third wicket with Kohli who was unlucky to miss out on a 50 . Earlier , a captain 's knock of 92 not out by Angelo Mathews and an uncharacteristic 61 from elder statesman Kumar Sangakkara helped Sri Lanka post 274 for the loss of eight wickets. Tilakratne Dilshan ( 35 from 30 balls ) too chipped in at the top of the order but could n't get going as Indian bowlers dominated the proceedings . The Lankans need to do something to their batting. This is the second time in two matches that their batting has flopped badly. If a team scores 1 , 0 , 0 , 0 , 1 , 0 in the 37th over and 0 , 0 , 0 , 1 , 1 , 0 in the 38th over with wickets in hand after winning the toss and batting first on a track that is immensely helpful for batting , then something is seriously wrong . India , on the other hand , cleared the test with flying colours . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
