Reaction to England 's World Cup exit The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 9 , 2015 , 07.03PM IST Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Reaction to England being knocked out of the World Cup following defeat by Bangladesh on Monday . England captain Eoin Morgan : " To lose three wickets in four overs or something , and two wickets in one over , does not help the cause . " I 'm extremely disappointed because within the group there was a lot of belief and expectation to go further than this. " Former England captain Andrew Strauss : " The truth is we are not good enough. From 1 to 11 we have n't got the players who can compete with the top teams. We could n't compete with Bangladesh and we certainly ca n't compete with Australia and South Africa . " We have been poor for 20 years in one-day cricket and we will be poor for another 20 years unless we change the way we play our domestic one-day cricket. " Former England captain Michael Atherton : " It 's a very sad evening here in Adelaide , and you feel for the players who are playing so far below their potential , and that 's a sad state of affairs . " You have to go back to before the tournament began. England had a dreadful 2014 and came into this tournament on a terrible streak of bad form . " They sacked their captain on the eve of the tournament , made critical changes for the first game of the tournament and they moved heaven and earth to try and get the preparation right for the World Cup . " They moved The Ashes for heaven 's sake so we have had 10 back-to-back Ashes test matches so they have given every opportunity to plan for the tournament but they have made a bit of a Horlicks of it and the chickens have come home to roost tonight. " Former England captain Nasser Hussain : " The planning here has been poor and that needs to be looked at. Do we view it as important as test match cricket ? " Would we , before the first Ashes test this summer , change our No.3 batsman the night before ? No . " Would we change our captain two months before ? No. But we do it in one-day cricket. So the whole mindset of how importantly we view one-day cricket needs to be looked at. " Former England batsman David Lloyd : " Bangladesh played really well to get from 10-2 to 275 , but at the beginning I had Bangladesh as favourites to win this game , quite simply because I thought they were better cricketers than England -- so it 's proved , so it 's not a surprise to me . " But there will be a lot of soul-searching now by the England team and management but clearly , England are not good enough having lost four matches. " Former England captain Ian Botham on Twitter : " Well done Bangladesh , England pathetic ! When are we going to pick the selectors to pick a team for the 1 day format ? Time for change ! ! " Former Australian leg-spinner Shane Warne : " England had the wrong team , the wrong style of play and everyone could see it , tonight 's result not a shock. I feel for Morgan , coach in trouble. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
