Replace Fletcher with Vengsarkar : Engineer The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Sep 12 , 2014 , 12.19PM IST Engineer felt that with Fletcher in charge , India would struggle in the Test series in Australia too. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : While he may now be feeling more secure after team director Ravi Shastri and skipper MS Dhoni both backed him to continue as the India coach till the World Cup , Duncan Fletcher is still under fire for the way in which the side faltered in the Test series in England . On Thursday , after inaugurating an indoor nets facility at the Cricket Club of India ( CCI ) , Farokh Engineer asked for the Zimbabwean to be immediately replaced by former India skipper and chief selector Dilip Vengsarkar . Coming down heavily on Fletcher for 'allowing the batsmen to repeat their mistakes in the Test series, ' Engineer lamented : " I felt really sorry for the Indian players. We were playing our best XI , but there was nobody to guide them properly on how to bat on those wickets. I have nothing against Fletcher , but his mannerisms , his aloofness has n't helped the Indian dressing room. He was n't there to buck up the spirits of the boys. He was n't seen to be doing enough. " Explaining why Vengsarkar 's appointment as India 's 'batting coach ' is the need of the hour , particularly for the Test team , Engineer said : " He has his academies , he has the time , skill , nous for leadership and man management. If you have Ravi Shastri for the ODIs , get Dilip for Tests. His knowledge about batting technique is very good. He would have told the batsmen exactly where they were going wrong in England. They were making the same mistakes , and you ca n't have that. " " Vengsarkar 's the man who brought in the likes of Sachin Tendulkar and Virat Kohli . He 's hugely respected. He can spot talent. He is special coz I know he 'll be good for Indian cricket , " he added . The 76-year-old wants an end to the practice of appointing foreign coaches for the Indian team. " We do n't need foreign coaches. Indian cricket should be run by Indian cricketers , not foreigners , " he stressed . He felt that with Fletcher in charge , India would struggle in the Test series in Australia too . " I assume he wo n't say anything to the boys , and I assume they 'll make the same mistakes again and again. That 's why , I am saying that we must get someone who knows what he 's talking about. Let somebody whom the boys respect , who 's been there and done it before , guide the team. This why Vengsarkar is high on my list , " he said . Engineer felt that Shastri 's addition to the support staff had shown how badly Fletcher was failing in his job . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
