Returning Aamer promises to be 'better human' The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jan 29 , 2015 , 02.41PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 KARACHI : Banned Pakistan paceman Mohammad Aamer vowed Thursday to prove himself as a " better player and better human being " after his spot-fixing ban was relaxed by the cricket world governing body . The International Cricket Council ( ICC ) has said Aamer , 22 , can return to domestic matches with immediate effect , ending his five-year suspension from all forms of the game some eight months early . Aamer , who was banned for his part in a scandal in which he arranged no-balls to order in a 2010 Test against England , said he was overwhelmed by the ICC announcement . " It 's the biggest news of my life , " he told AFP by phone. " It was the most difficult phase of my life but I am sure it 's over now and I am keen to return to international grounds. " Aamer was banned along with his captain Salman Butt and new ball partner Mohammad Asif . Cricket , and Pakistani cricket in particular , has struggled with the scourge of corruption in recent years and there has been some disquiet about Aamer 's return to the game . Some former professionals have said he should not be allowed back into international cricket , while Pakistan Cricket Board Chairman Shaharyar Khan last year revealed some current players were against Aamer 's return and did not want to share a dressing room with him . Aamer , however , vowed to win over the naysayers with his bowling -- and promised to behave from now on . " If anyone has any problems with my return I am sure he will change his views with my character and good performances , " said Aamer . " My job is to play and do well and I am sure that I will return to international cricket as a better player and better human being and that 's my aim. " The decision to relax his ban came after two years of efforts by the PCB . The ICC last year approved a provision in its players ' code of conduct under which all banned players who complete their rehabilitation will be allowed to play domestic cricket a few months before their bans expire . Aamer said he never thought of giving up cricket. " Cricket is my life and I never thought of leaving it , " he said. " I have not forgotten how to bowl but now my focus on cricket will be more than before as I have to prove myself again. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
