Richie Benaud was at his best on Indian pitches The author has posted comments on this article Avijit Ghosh , TNN | Apr 11 , 2015 , 08.36AM IST File photo - Former Australian cricketer Richie Benaud rings the bell on the pavillion balcony at Lord 's cricket ground in London. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Few spinners touring India have enjoyed such bountiful harvest as Richie Benaud. His leg-spin was n't designed to deceive in flight but they turned and bounce awkwardly to fetch him 52 wickets in eight Tests at an average that even India 's famed spin quartet would die for : 18.38 . But Benaud was also " a rare Australian gentleman cricketer , " recalls former Test bat Abbas Ali Baig who played against him in 1960-61. After India pulled off an improbable triumph against his team , Benaud gifted his blazer to rival captain Gulab Ramchand as a gesture of appreciation . On his first tour to India in 1957 , the Australian all-rounder played under Ian Johnson. Two years later , he had the added responsibility of being the skipper. Benaud was at his wicket-taking best in Eden Gardens , Calcutta , in 1957 claiming 11 for 105 ( 6 for 52 and 5 for 53 ) , the only occasion when he hauled 10 wickets or more in a Test. His career-best bowling effort in an innings , 7 for 72 , also occurred in the same series at Corporation Stadium , Madras. Overall , Benaud took 23 wickets at an average of 16.86. Australia won the three-Test series 2-0 . He courted success on his second tour too claiming 29 wickets at an average of 19.58. " Benaud had a high action. He kept a low trajectory and hardly flighted the ball. Barring the flipper , he did n't have much variety. But he could get decent bounce and turn , " recalls Baig. Statistics illustrate how Indian batsmen , generally adept at playing spin , were unable to negotiate him. His combined strike rate on these tours was over six wickets per game . Interestingly , while Benaud was hugely successful as a bowler , he failed to score even a half-century in any of these eight Tests in India. In a career of 63 Tests , he scored 2,201 runs with three centuries and nine half-tons and took 248 wickets . The 1960-61 Australian team , led by Benaud , had much-vaunted players such as Alan Davidson , Neil Harvey and Norman O'Neill , then regarded as a prodigy. The Aussies waltzed past India in the first Test at Feroze Shah Kotla with Benaud back at his best. His match figures were 8 for 76 ( 3 for 0 and 5 for 76 ) . Sensational off-spin bowling by Jasu Patel ( 9 for 69 and 5 for 55 ) , fired India to an memorable 119-run victory and level series at his juncture . " Immediately after the game ended , Benaud , the most generous of opponents , hastened to the Indian dressing room to congratulate Ramchand ; to present him with his own Australian blazer in token of a very famous victory. It had been thus far and was to remain throughout , a friendly tour , especially in the relationship between the players , " writes Edward Docker in History of Indian Cricket. Australia won the series 2-1 . Baig also remembers Benaud as a gracious and personable individual. " We met during India 's 1992 tour when I was the manager. He was always nice to chat with. Even his commentary was always balanced and constructive , " he says . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
