RIP Hughes , but cricket has to move on The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Dec 7 , 2014 , 12.55PM IST Both teams are preparing for the first Test suffering Test suffering more than just a case of nerves in the wake of the freak incident at the SCG late last month. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Phillip Hughes ' death was a tragedy of immense proportions but the time has come for all cricketers to shake off the feeling of dread and get on with the game. This was the unequivocal message sent out by the usually reticent Indian cricket team on Saturday . Both teams are preparing for the first Test suffering Test suffering more than just a case of nerves in the wake of the freak incident at the SCG late last month . " It 's a very sad incident. But cricket has to move on , the game will go on. Mentally everyone is on the game. But yes , that incident will definitely be on everyone 's mind ( when we take the field ) , " batsman Rohit Sharma said . His feelings were echoed by many of his teammates , including opener Murali Vijay . " It should not have happened and it happened. We feel hurt and moved as a team and as individuals. It was a sad thing and it should not be discussed like this. Our thoughts go out to the family , " said Vijay . Suresh Raina , on his part , admitted the tragedy had made family members back home jittery about another hard-fought series in Australia. " Because of this incident it 's a different ball game. The family is worried.Friends are worried. They say , " Make sure ki aap careful khelo ( Make sure you play carefully ) . It 's a sport and no one plays a sport to hurt the opposition. It 's very important to maintain a positive frame of mind. " Pacer Ishant Sharma said it was imperative they all look ahead to the next ball like true professionals. " We are professional cricketers. We have to move on. Whatever has happened is pretty bad and we were shocked when we came to know of it. We need to look forward , that 's what we do. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
