Robin Uthappa set to fly again The author has posted comments on this article Sunil Subbaiah , TNN | May 29 , 2014 , 10.58AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 BANGALORE : Robin Uthappa seems to have hit cruise mode after touching dizzying heights and enduring heart-breaking lows in a topsy-turvy career . An impressive run in the Ranji Trophy and Vijay Hazare limited overs tournaments this season followed by a remarkable show for KKR in the IPL has helped him return to the Indian ODI squad after a gap of six years . The 28-year-old Kodava lad , who last played an ODI for India against Sri Lanka in the Asia Cup at Karachi in 2008 , was on Wednesday included in the Indian ODI team that will travel to Bangladesh for a three-match series , starting June 15 . Incidentally , Uthappa was part of the team which traveled to Bangladesh in 2007 for a three-match ODI series but did not make it to the playing squad . " I am grateful for this opportunity and it has come at the right time. This will be a great chance for me to prove myself and help India win matches , " said a delighted Uthappa , who has emerged as the top-scorer of this year 's IPL with 655 runs . " Everything is going well and I want continue without making changes to my game and my approach. I am looking forward to a good tournament in Bangladesh. If I perform well there , everything else will automatically fall into place. So , I want to stick to my plans and keep things simple. Before that , my focus is to do well in the IPL final , " said Uthappa , whose last international appearance was in the rain-affected T20 game in South Africa in March 2012 . After a slump in form , the 28-year-old took tough decisions two seasons ago , changing his attitude and lifestyle in a bid to resurrect his career. He also hired former India cricketer Pravin Amre to help him fine-tune his technique. " After the IPL , I am back in Mumbai to train with Amre , " he said . Uthappa 's Karnataka and KKR teammate Vinay Kumar , who too is in the ODI squad , said his inclusion was a reward for hard work. " I was in and out of the Indian team but the selectors have taken notice of my performance in domestic cricket , " said Kumar , 30 , who last figured in the Indian team during its home series against Australia in November last year. " I will give my best in Bangladesh and will aim to stay in the national reckoning , " said Vinay , who has figured in 31 ODIs . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
