'Rockstar ' Ravindra Jadeja : Miracle worker for India The author has posted comments on this article Ajit Bezbaruah , TNN | Feb 7 , 2015 , 11.40AM IST Jadeja is a genuine all-rounder who can swing games with both bat and ball. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 When Ravindra Jadeja started playing cricket in the bylanes of Navagam Ghed in Jamnagar , no one thought that he would play for India one day. He was just seven when he took up the sport , playing with a bunch of boys who were much elder than him . Even as Jadeja would contribute regularly to the team kitty to finance a bat or ball , the family noticed that he would always return home with tears rolling down his cheeks . An introvert , he would never let anyone in the family know the real reason , until one day his sister Naina followed him. She noticed that being the youngest player around , Jadeja was made to field for most part of the day without getting a chance to either bat or bowl . It was then that the family decided to send him to Mahendrasinh Chauhan 's cricket coaching centre at the Cricket Pavilion in Jamnagar , hoping that the youngster would at least get to bat and bowl . As his interest in the sport grew , the family also admitted him in a school near Cricket Pavilion so that he could spend more time playing the game . Such was his enthusiasm that Jadeja would be the first one to arrive on the ground and the last one to leave. He would bat for hours , bowl for hours and would do fielding drills with the same intensity . The youngster 's passion left the family worried. They came from a really modest background and nobody in the family knew what a career in sport meant. His father - Annirudhsinh - was employed as a security guard by an agency while his mother worked as a nurse in a local hospital . Jadeja , however , was at ease with the sport. The frequent travelling to different venues instilled a sense of unwavering confidence in him . People who mattered started noticing his talent and the opportunities started coming thick and fast. Kiran More , who has an eye for talent , saw Jadeja bat along with Cheteshwar Pujara in an U-14 tournament in Vadodara. The former India stumper and chairman of selectors predicted that both these kids would play for India soon . More was so impressed with Jadeja that he used to invite the left-hander to play for his academy in Vadodara and at times , even take him to Mumbai for various tournaments and camps. This helped fast track Jadeja into the Saurashtra U19 team when he was only 16. He went on to feature in two U19 World Cups for India in 2006 and was Virat Kohli 's deputy when India lifted the World Cup in Malaysia in 2008 . There was a time in 2005 when Jadeja contemplated quitting following his mother 's untimely death . People say he was shattered and it took a lot of cajoling from his sisters Naina and Padmini to continue playing cricket. They asked him to fulfill his mother 's wish of seeing him in an India jersey. He became a different person from then onwards more focused , disciplined and hard working . Jadeja was slowly cruising along but IPL-I in 2008 vaulted him into the big league of glamour , name , fame and fortune. Dubbed 'Rockstar ' by Shane Warne for his flashy dressing sense , Jadeja started grabbing headlines for the right and wrong reasons. He impressed with his courageous brand of cricket but made a few wrong choices , only to be barred by the BCCI from playing in the IPL in 2010 . Jadeja 's life , indeed , serves as an inspiration for strugglers. There was a time when he could n't afford to get a proper cricket gear in place but he now commands a staggering $ 2 million in the IPL. He owns a tony restaurant in Rajkot apart from a few horses and Dobermans at his spacious Jamnagar farmhouse . Jadeja is clear in his mind that it is his dedication that has helped him reach where he is today. It 's for this reason that he 's still in the Indian World Cup squad despite not recovering fully from a shoulder injury . Captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni realizes his worth on the field , where he is a livewire , a cunning bowler and a handy bat who can swing matches in an instant. Jadeja simply loves a challenge . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
