Rohit 's 150 propels India to 364/5 against Afghanistan The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 10 , 2015 , 12.55PM IST Electing to bat , India were in deep trouble after being reduced to 16 for two in the fourth over with Shikhar Dhawan ( 4 ) and Virat Kohli ( 5 ) both back in the hut. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Rohit Sharma smashed his way to a strokeful 150 while Ajinkya Rahane blasted an unbeaten 88 as India posted a huge 364 for five against Afghanistan in their second and final cricket World Cup warm up match on Tuesday . Although the runs came against the weak attack of a minnow cricket nation but the struggling Indian batsmen badly needed runs under their belt , going into a crucial opening match against Pakistan . Suresh Raina was also among runs with a fiery 75 off 71 balls. Sharma and Raina added 158 runs for the third wicket , pulling India out of a horror start as they had lost opener Shikhar Dhawan ( 4 ) and key batsman Virat Kohli ( 5 ) within fourth over . Left-hander Dhawan had scored a half-century against Australia in the first warm-up game but Kohli yet again struggled , missing a chance to get his rhythm back before the main tournament starts . Sharma and Raina stroked comfortably , specially against the hapless Afghan spinners. They often charged down the wicket , took aerial route and cleared the boundaries with ease . Sharma hit 19 boundaries , including seven sixes in his punishing knock while Raina tormented the rival bowlers with five fours and three sixes . Following Raina 's run out , diminutive Rahane walked to the crease and remained their till the end , scoring a confident 88 off just 61 balls , steering India past 350-run mark . Skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni yet again had a bad outing as he managed only 10 runs and did not score a single boundary in the 20 balls that he faced . Medium paceman Mirwais Ashraf ( 0/29 ) was the only Afghan bowler who managed an under-five economy rate in his six wicket-less overs while others bled runs . Brief Scores : India 364 for five in 50 overs ( Rohit Sharma 150 , Ajinkya Rahane 88 not out ; Hamid Hassan 1-49 , Mohammad Nabi 1-62 ) vs Afghanistan . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
