Rohit did not make the 2011 World Cup cut , but he is now a key player in Team India 's scheme of things. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 Beads of sweat ran down Rohit Sharma 's temples on the weary Friday afternoon of March 11 , 2011 as he sat in the team bus to leave for a training session on the eve of an important game . India were scheduled to play South Africa in their first big-ticket match of the ICC World Cup the next day in Nagpur and the expectations were high . But Sharma was n't in Nagpur. Instead , he was 500 km away in Hyderabad , warming up for Mumbai 's pre-quarterfinal clash against Haryana in the Syed Mushtaq Ali tournament . Around 12 kg overweight , chubbier than a cricketer his age would 've liked to be , his next immediate task was to bat his team into the last eight of the domestic Twenty20 tournament. The task of tackling South Africa in the World Cup match rested on the shoulders of 15 others who had impressively made the cut back then. Sharma was n't one of them . In the months leading to the 2011 Cup , Sharma had been going through one of his rough patches yet again , an unsolicited trait that had wedged into his international career since debut. A single half-century in 17 ODIs , the last five in South Africa yielding only 49 runs , had put the lid on his World Cup selection . " When the team was announced , he was shocked. He did n't know how to react , " says teammate and good friend Abhishek Nayar . For all the decade-long accolades of being a 'naturally gifted cricketer ' and 'supremely talented batsman ' , all it took was one selection committee meeting to reintroduce him to reality. And it hurt . Early morning local trains from faraway Dombivili - a distant Mumbai suburb - to the many maidans of the city and back home highlighted Sharma 's upbringing in the game like hundreds of others who 've struggled while playing cricket. Yet , what made Sharma stand apart was his batting , way superior to those hundreds of Mumbai youngsters and thousands across the country who were n't born with the same gift as him . That his family had to go through financial stress so that he could play cricket is well documented , perhaps as neatly as his growing indulgences once he started earning from the game . His bat earned him his first million dollars on a single cheque in 2011 when Mumbai Indians signed him. But Sharma had never waited that long to move from Dombivili to the relative upmarket Borivili and soon enough to expensive Bandra - suburbs that have classified Mumbai 's lifestyle over decades . " He likes to live like a king. He did it when he had nothing. He does it now when he has enough , " says Nayar , going on to talk about his fascination for cars too . It 's clear the only moment Rohit was left a pauper was when he missed the World Cup berth. " I clearly remember we were in Indore for a T20 game when the World Cup was on , " recalls Nayar. " He had put on a lot of weight and was clearly depressed. I clicked a picture of his and gave it to him , reminding him what he 'd been doing to himself. " What followed the next couple of weeks was something that surprised Nayar and those close to Rohit like never before. " He does n't like early mornings. Working harder than what is required is just not him , " Nayar says of his friend . In those few weeks though , Rohit changed. " The World Cup miss gave him such a huge reality check that in a rare admission , even with friends , he said , 'this is it. I 'm going to change myself'. " Nayar says those who 'd like to see the difference that single resolution made should look at Rohit 's videos and pictures from the IPL that followed the World Cup . " Look at how he was before the World Cup and after. I 've never seen Rohit so committed , waking up early mornings , spending more time at trainings , understanding flaws. He knew he had to start all over again , " he says . The 2015 World Cup begins in two weeks and Rohit finds himself armed with the responsibility of leading India 's batting arsenal. The only batsman to have scored two double hundreds in the 50-over format , he 's gone back from being a pauper to king . What he does about it this time around will rewrite the chapter of a very talented young man who has a few scores to settle inside his own mind . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
