Rohit Sharma has more to prove than just fitness The author has posted comments on this article Sudheendra Tripathi , TNN | Oct 30 , 2014 , 01.03PM IST Rohit Sharma hit the nets barely ten days ago. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Tour openers , warm-up matches , practice matches...these are fancy names for a cricket game. Visiting teams play these matches to get acclimatized to alien conditions . Statistically , these matches have no relevance. But for some players , even seasoned and talented professionals like Rohit Sharma , these matches can be of utmost importance. After all , he is staging a comeback after a two-month layoff due to injury . In August , Sharma was sidelined with a finger injury and has been out of action since. But , when India 'A ' take on the visiting Sri Lankan team at the Brabourne Stadium on Thursday , Sharma will have more than his fitness to prove . With 2015 being the year of the World Cup and India scheduled to tour Australia later this year , the practice game against Sri Lanka means a lot for the 27-year-old who was left swallowing a bitter pill after being overlooked for the 2011 World Cup . Sharma is not part of the squad for the first three ODIs against Sri Lanka. Clearly , the selectors want the man to prove his form and fitness before thinking of taking him on board for the remaining two ODIs and the subsequent tour of Australia . A good outing against the Sri Lankans on Thursday will be the key for the stylish batsman to return to the national fold . On the eve of the game , Sharma sounded confident. " The mindset is the same. The only difference is that I will be playing after more than two months. It is a good testing time. I am looking forward to it. It 's a great challenge playing after a while. I want to stay positive and keep that feeling that I 'm back on the field. I 've to keep that in my head and go forward , " Sharma said . Sharma hit the nets barely ten days ago. But most importantly , he did not rush into it headlong. He waited till he was absolutely certain about his fitness . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
