Rohit Sharma regains lost paradise in Eden The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Nov 14 , 2014 , 12.09PM IST Rohit became the first batsman to log two double hundreds in ODIs. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : There is something about Eden Gardens that continues to inspire generations of cricketers to seek their own paradise at this 150-year-old arena . The charm of this hallowed venue does not emanate from Biblical connotations but it is hard for batsmen and bowlers not to experience a rush of adrenaline while performing in the bowels of a modern-day coliseum jam-packed with screaming fans . Ask Rohan Kanhai , who made a sublime 256 here way back in 1958 , or VVS Laxman , who surpassed the legendary West Indies batsman in 2001 with an epic 281 that knocked the stuffing out of the Aussies , or Mohd Azharuddin , whose Test record here is truly enviable. Even Harbhajan Singh , who had spun out the Aussies in that historic victory , will tell you about romancing the Eden Gardens . Rohit Gurunath Sharma , who wrote his name into history books on Thursday by notching up a world record score of 264 in the fourth ODI against Sri Lanka , became the new darling of the Eden Gardens crowd after nine years of courtship . The Mumbaikar was just 19 when he played his first Ranji Trophy match for Mumbai at this venue in 2006-07 , and even though he failed in his maiden outing , Eden has not let him return empty-handed subsequently. In fact , he has not put a foot wrong here. A double hundred ( 200 * ) for Mumbai against Bengal in the Ranji Trophy ( 2010-11 ) was followed by a match winning 109 * for the Mumbai Indians versus Kolkata Knight Riders in IPL-5 ( 2012 ) . He returned to Eden as Mumbai Indians captain in 2013 to lead his team to the elusive title. Later that year , the right-hander capped his belated Test debut at the Eden Gardens against the West Indies with a sublime 177 to emerge as the heir apparent to Sachin Tendulkar 's throne . On Thursday , Rohit , returning from injury , blasted his way to a magnificent 264 off 173 balls to become the first batsman to log two double hundreds in ODIs . It also gave him the unique distinction of having scored a century , or more , in all three formats - Test , ODI , T20 - of the game at Eden. For someone who looked lost in English conditions only months back , Rohit 's return to Eden was all about regaining his paradise . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
