Rohit Sharma 's double ton steers India to 404/5 The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Nov 13 , 2014 , 06.11PM IST Rohit Sharma also became the first and only batsman to register two double centuries in ODIs. He also hit record number of boundaries during his innings. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : Rohit Sharma created history by hitting the highest individual ODI score with an incredible knock of 264 to power India to a mammoth 404 for five in fourth cricket one-dayer against Sri Lanka on Thursday . Returning after a 10-week injury layoff , nothing went wrong for Sharma since he was dropped on four , as he paced his innings beautifully before exploding against the hapless looking Lankan attack , smashing 173-ball 264 studded with 33 boundaries and nine sixes at the Eden Gardens . In the process , Sharma also broke his compatriot Virender Sehwag 's earlier record of 219 runs , which he had set against West Indies in 2011 . Sharma also became the first and only batsman to register two double centuries in ODIs. He also hit record number of boundaries during his innings . Opener Sharma hit Nuwan Kulasekara for four with an elegant cover drive to become the fourth batsman overall to reach the double ton . It seemed Sharma went into the middle never to return as he was dropped two more times after completing the double century en route to surpassing his previous best of 209 against Australia in Bangalore last year . Sharma batted full 50 overs and got out in the last ball of the innings with Lankan most experienced man Mahela Jayawardene catching him in the long off . He received a guard of honour from his teammates while leaving the field at a venue , which is celebrating 150 years . This total also became the highest ODI score at the venue as India bettered their previous best of 317 , which was also against Sri Lanka in 2009 . In the middle , stand-in skipper Virat Kohli supported Sharma well with a 64-ball 66 before getting run-out . Opting to bat , India were 56 for two but Sharma and Kohli looked untroubled by the Lankan attack and the duo put on 202 runs together off 155 balls for the third wicket to take the match away from Sri Lanka . Sharma also shared a 128-run partnership with Robin Uthappa ( 16 ) . With the Lankans bowling wayward , Sharma was particularly ruthless in the batting powerplay that fetched India 57 runs. He smacked the bowlers all around the park before taking a deft single to deep square leg to notch up his fifth century , his first here . Sharma incidentally had a debut Test hundred here. The venue once again proved lucky for the Mumbaikar , who pointed skywards repeatedly and went down on his knees to celebrate the century . Coming back after a 10-week injury layoff , Sharma began his innings steadily. He was lucky early on after getting a reprieve from Thisara Perera , who dropped a sitter at third man as Sharma took his time to settle down , even as Rahane was brisk at the other end . With six fours , Rahane raced to 28 from 22 balls before being adjudged lbw in a dubious decision with the ball hitting high on his pad. But it was a breakthrough the Lankans needed . Quickly Sharma saw a second wicket falling at the other end , this time from a superb angling delivery from Eranga that straightened to uproot Rayudu 's off-stump . Sharma , however , remained unperturbed. He used his wrists beautifully against Eranga deliveries . Kohli , who the other day only termed Sharma the X-factor going into the World Cup and stressed the need to give him maximum overs , kept his words and ensured that the Mumbaikar got maximum number of strikes . The Lankans 'schoolboy ' fielding and wayward deliveries further helped Sharma 's cause. Kulasekara swayed outside the offstump bowling to a legside field , while Mendis lacked bite as Sharma and Kohli scored runs at ease . Having scored the half-century from 72 balls , Sharma went into top gear as he took just 28 more balls to notch up his 100 in as many balls in a perfect execution . Earlier , both the teams made four changes each to their line-ups that turned up in Hyderabad . Sharma returned to the top order in place of Shikhar Dhawan , while allrounder Stuart Binny , legspinner Karn Sharma and batsman Robin Uthappa were also included into the XI . Sri Lanka injected four new players into the team with Lahiru Thirimanne , Dinesh Chandimal , Eranga and Ajantha Mendis replacing Kumar Sangakkara , Chaturanga de Silva , Ashan Priyanjan and Lahiru Gamage . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
