Rohit was bit frustrated , says Johnson The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Dec 24 , 2014 , 09.06AM IST I do n't think he ( Rohit Sharma ) had the greatest game and I think he was just a bit frustrated , " Johnson said. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Aussie quick Mitchell Johnson , whose second innings 88 and four-wicket burst broke India 's back at the Gabba , admitted that India 's ploy to bowl bouncers and verbals got him going. " I said a few words early and then just let it go after that and then just started smiling at Rohit Sharma . He seemed to come in a fair bit and had a fair bit to say. I do n't think he had the greatest game and I think he was just a bit frustrated , " Johnson said . Instead of putting him off his rhythm , the Indians seemed to lose the plot a bit , felt Johnson. " To go out there and cop it from a few of their boys , it just played into our hands. I was able to play my game and not worry about anything. I actually did n't know I had scored 50. I always like a bit of verbal on the field... it gets me going . Asked if he thinks India should sledge him again , Johnson said , " I hope so. It seemed to work for me the last time. " 'Sad Ishant has dropped his pace' Probably the world 's most effective pace bowler right now along with South Africa 's Dale Steyn , Johnson felt India 's quick bowlers are too often guilty of sacrificing pace on the altar of accuracy. Unless India 's pacers bowl fast , they will never have the kind of impact they crave in the world arena , Johnson suggested . Johnson has recently been impressed and surprised by the pace worked up by Varun Aaron and Umesh Yadav in the ongoing Test series in Australia. " It is actually a nice surprise to see quick bowlers coming out of there ( India ) , " he told TOI , " I guess it ( slow pace ) is normal , coming from the conditions they play in day in and day out , on low flat wickets. Ishant was fast when he came in , was n't he...bowling in the 150s. It 's a bit of a shame that he has lost a bit of pace , though. " Although Ishant Sharma is the most experienced Indian bowler on view in this series - having played 60 Tests - and has bowled well in patches , he has lacked wicket-taking impact . In fact , Ishant has blown hot and cold throughout his career when it comes to taking wickets , and in Tests his strike rate is 65.6. Just to compare with the best , Mitchell Johnson 's strike rate is 50.8 , and Steyn 's is 41.4 . " Hopefully these young guys can continue to bowl fast , " Johnson said of Umesh and Aaron , adding : " It is good to see. It is good for cricket if India can produce fast bowlers. They make the game exciting , the crowds love it. I think India enjoyed bowling on a fast wicket like the Gabba. It 's good for the game to have real quick bowlers all the time. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
