Root backs call for yellow cards to curb misbehaviour The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Jan 19 , 2015 , 01.58PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE : Having been on the receiving end of Australian opener David Warner 's fiery temper , England batsman Joe Root sees logic in Kiwi great Martin Crowe 's call for a soccer-like card system to curb player misbehaviour . Warner 's growing reputation as a hard-hitting batsman has coincided with the pugnacious southpaw 's increasing fondness to get involved in on-field spats , making him a regular visitor to the match referee 's room . The latest , against India 's Rohit Sharma in Sunday 's tri-series contest , cost him half his match fee and a reprimand from his own board , who have asked the 28-year-old " to stop looking for trouble " . " ...there is a growing concern that David Warner 's thuggish behaviour has gone too far , " former New Zealand captain Crowe wrote in his ESPNCricinfo column . " Soon one day , it will lead to an incident that will sully the game for good , " added Crowe , convinced fines can no longer act as a deterrent . " You have to take them out of the game for extended periods. Two yellow cards should result in a red card , which should ban any player for six months , " he added . The confrontation with Rohit follows Warner 's spat with another Indian , Shikhar Dhawan , in the Adelaide test last month , after which both players were fined . Root felt Crowe 's suggestion made a lot of sense . " At the minute , people are n't happy with the way people are holding themselves on the field and if that is going to sort it out then why not ? " asked Root , famously punched by Warner in a bar in 2013 . " You are out there to either score runs or take wickets , if that is not your main focus then you are not doing your team a full service , " Root said ahead of Tuesday 's tri-series one-day international against India . " It 's about mutual respect for each other. " Crowe said players such as Warner risked getting punched by opponents but Root felt that was a mark no one was prepared to overstep . " I ca n't ( foresee such a situation ) , to be honest. Someone would have to be in a really bad place to do that , " the 24-year-old added . " There have been a few things that have happened over the last six months and that is not good for the game . " But I ca n't really see it going that far to lead to a punch-up... it 's not ice hockey. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
