Root hundred props up England ; Target 295 for India The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Sep 5 , 2014 , 06.51PM IST England 's Joe Root plays a shot away from India 's wicketkeeper MS Dhoni. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LEEDS : Joe Root sparkled with his second ODI hundred as England 's batting finally came good to give India a reasonably stiff target of 295 in the inconsequential fifth and final cricket one-dayer here today . Root 's second ODI hundred helped England reach 294/7 in their allotted 50 overs. Root scored 113 runs ( 108 balls , 10 fours , three sixes ) as the home side scored their highest total in four ODIs so far . Root added 108 runs off just 71 balls with Jos Buttler ( 49 ) for the fifth wicket scoring at a break-neck pace of 8 runs per over . For India , Mohammad Shami ( 2-52 ) was again the best bowler on display , while Bhuvneshwar Kumar ( 1-45 ) , Umesh Yadav ( 1-46 ) , R Ashwin ( 1-49 ) and Suresh Raina ( 1-32 ) also took a wicket each. Ravindra Jadeja ( 0-66 ) had an off-day . Earlier , Indian skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni once again won the toss and opted to field first. The visitors made one change , bringing in Umesh Yadav for Dhawal Kulkarni , while England made two changes to their line-up from the previous game . Gary Ballance and Harry Gurney were left out with James Tredwell and Ben Stokes coming in for them . Alastair Cook ( 46 runs , 64 balls , 6 fours ) and Alex Hales ( 4 ) opened the innings then , looking for a good start to put India under some pressure , but it was n't meant to be despite a quick getaway . Hales looked to be aggressive and played a false pull shot to be caught at mid-wicket off Yadav in the 4th over. Moeen Ali ( 9 ) , given a promotion after his blitzkrieg fifty in the previous match , was out three overs later , again looking to be too aggressive as he smacked the ball straight to third man . It was looking like routine for England at 39/2 , but Cook and Root rebuilt the innings. They added 52 runs for the third wicket , with the English skipper enjoying quite a bit of luck during his stay at the wicket . He had nicked the ball twice through the absent second slip -- on 9 in the third over and then at 19 in the seventh over . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
