Rush Dhawal Kulkarni to England , urges Vengsarkar The author has posted comments on this article Ehtesham Hasan , TNN | Aug 4 , 2014 , 06.04AM IST " We will have to think out-of-the-box and rush Dhawal Kulkarni to England. It will not be a knee jerk reaction as such , " said Dilip Vengsarkar. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Dilip Vengsarkar has urged the BCCI to " think out-of-the-box " and rush Mumbai 's in-form pacer Dhawal Kulkarni to England ahead of the fourth Test that begins on August 7 . Experienced seamer Ishant Sharma sat out of the third Test and the word from England is that he as good as ruled out of the series. Bhuvneshwar Kumar , too , is suffering from a swollen ankle while the overworked Mohammad Shami has lost his bite . Pankaj Singh , who made his debut in the last Test , clearly did n't have luck on his side as he went wicketless. That has only left skipper MS Dhoni at his wits end . " We will have to think out-of-the-box and rush Dhawal Kulkarni to England. It will not be a knee jerk reaction as such. We have carried seven bowlers to England , which is quite a lot. But Kulkarni should immediately join the squad and be available for selection for the Old Trafford Test , " said Vengsarkar . The 25-year-old Kulkarni has been in good form having picked 14 wickets at an impressive average of 18 for India 'A ' in the recent quadrangular series in Australia. The Mumbai pacer , Vengsarkar , feels is an ideal bowler who has the skills to lift the flat-looking Indian attack . " Dhawal is the man in form. He has done extremely well for India 'A ' , by emerging as the highest wicket-taker. He is a hit-the-deck type of bowler who moves the ball around. He lost out because of injuries last year but he has recovered now . " Technically speaking , his action is ideal for English conditions as he gets movement and bounce due to his high arm action and invariably hits the right lengths. Looking at our bowling strength , the one who is in good nick and experienced too should be picked right away , " Vengsarkar added . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
