Sachin is one of my favourites , Kohli is magnificent too : Viv Richards The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 1 , 2015 , 09.43PM IST King Richards has named some of his favourite ODI batsmen and the two Indians who have included in the list are Sachin Tendulkar and India 's current No. 1 batsman Virat Kohli. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 DUBAI : He had redefined ODI batsmanship almost three decades back but Sir Vivian Richards ' favourite ODI batsman is none other than the legendary Sachin Tendulkar . In a column written for the ICC , King Richards has named some of his favourite ODI batsmen and the two Indians who have included in the list are Tendulkar and India 's current No. 1 batsman Virat Kohli . " The first name that comes to mind is Sachin Tendulkar. In a single word , I would describe him as a legend. The player he was until very recently , if ever there is a team picked without including him , it would be a great shame , " Richards wrote in his column for the International Cricket Council . " He ( Tendulkar ) has always been one of my favourite batsmen and I would pay money to watch him bat. He was n't the biggest in size amongst other cricketers of the world , but all good things come in small packages. And he was a fantastic batsman , " Richards said . About Kohli , Richards wrote : " At such a young age , he ( Kohli ) has twice the number of ODI century than in Tests and he is such a confident player in limited-overs. It is not to say he is n't so in the longer format , but I really like his aggressive style in ODI cricket . " Look at the way he started his career , and the batsman he has already become today , he is simply magnificent in whatever little time he has played as compared to others. He is only going to get better and better , and add to his list of achievements , " Richards was effusive in his praise . The other batsman who came in for a lot of praise by the legend were fellow West Indians Brian Lara , Chris Gayle , South Africa 's AB de Villiers , Australians Matthew Hayden , Ricky Ponting , Michael Hussey . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
