Sachin Tendulkar backs India to do well in World Cup The author has posted comments on this article AP | Sep 4 , 2014 , 02.39PM IST Sachin Tendulkar retired last year with most runs and most centuries in both Tests and one-day internationals. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Retired batting maestro Sachin Tendulkar has backed defending champion India to do well at next year 's World Cup because of the team 's all-round ability . " India is definitely among the strong contenders for the title , " Tendulkar was quoted as saying in Chennai by The Hindu newspaper on Thursday . " It is a well-balanced side and is tough to beat. " The 41-year-old Tendulkar , who retired last year with the most runs and most centuries in both Tests and one-day internationals , praised all facets of the Indian team as it took a 3-0 lead after four games of a five-match ODI series in England . " If you look at batting , there is a good mix of the right and the left-handers. When a right-left combination is at the crease , it becomes a lot harder for the bowlers. They have to find the right line , " Tendulkar said . Opener Shikhar Dhawan , Suresh Raina and all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja are the left-handers who are regulars in the one-day squad with experienced all-rounder Yuvraj Singh and opener Gautam Gambhir hoping to make comebacks . Though India has a lot of depth in batting , its relatively inexperienced bowling has posed problems in the end overs in limited overs games . But Tendulkar , who is set to come out with his autobiography on November 6 , said the bowling attack too had been combining well . " The Indians have been bowling well in partnerships. There are some good pace and spin options at different stages of the innings , " said Tendulkar , who was part of the team that won the World Cup at home in 2011 . Tendulkar felt the Indian team was also capable of doing well in Tests despite its poor showing in series abroad including a recent 3-1 loss to England in which it lost the last two Tests inside three days . The 2015 World Cup will be played in Australia and New Zealand from February 14-March 29 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
