Sachin Tendulkar , MS Dhoni contenders for greatest ODI cricketer The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 6 , 2015 , 04.31PM IST Sachin Tendulkar rewrote many records during a glorious career spanning 23 years. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The iconic Sachin Tendulkar and Indian captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni are among five leading contenders vying for the crown of the greatest ODI cricketer of all time . Australia 's former swashbuckling opener Adam Gilchrist , Pakistan pace legend Wasim Akram and West Indies great Viv Richards are the other three nominees , as per an exercise conducted by ESPNcricinfo 's magazine 'Cricket Monthly' . The winner - determined by a jury of 50 players , commentators and cricket writers from around the world - will be announced next week . The jury 's choice of the five greatest comprise two gamechanging wicketkeeper-batsmen , a magician fast bowler , and two batting greats . In terms of longevity and batting stats Tendulkar has no equal. Arguably the greatest batsman in contemporary cricket , Tendulkar rewrote many records during a glorious career spanning 23 years . He amassed a mammoth 18,426 runs in 463 one-dayers at an average of 44.83. The diminutive right-hander has an astonishing 49 hundreds in the format , including a double hundred -- the first in this form of the game. Tendulkar also has a mammoth tally of 96 ODI 50s to his credit . Dhoni - the only current player in the top five - has emerged as one of the greatest finishers in One-day Internationals . His power-packed , inventive strokes powered India to triumph from the jaws of defeat , not once but many a times. He played a key role in his team 's triumph in the title clash of the 2011 World Cup . Gilchrist 's ODI career spanned over 12 years - 1996 to 2008 - during which he set the stage ablaze with his explosive strokeplay that won Australia countless matches , including the 2007 World Cup final against Sri Lanka . Through the late '70s and '80s , Richards dominated the one-day arena like no other cricketer , and helped his side to two World Cup victories in 1975 and 1979 . During a career that spanned nearly two decades , Akram , often called the 'Sultan of Swing ' , could do anything with the ball. He belonged to the rarest of rare category , somebody who could bowl six different deliveries in an over. He finished with 502 wickets - still comfortably the most for a fast bowler in ODI. He was Man of the Match in Pakistan 's title triumph in 1992 final . The jury includes legendary cricketers Ian Chappell , Clive Lloyd , Martin Crowe , Rahul Dravid , Ricky Ponting and Graeme Smith ; veteran commentators Tony Cozier , Mark Nicholas , Mike Haysman and Sanjay Manjrekar ; and respected writers Gideon Haigh , Mike Coward , Suresh Menon and Mike Selvey . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
