Sachin Tendulkar voted in greatest ODI XI of all time The author has posted comments on this article ANI | Feb 10 , 2015 , 04.15PM IST Sachin Tendulkar claimed 29 percent of the votes for the opening batsman with Chris Gayle winning 25. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Indian cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar has been voted in the greatest ODI XI of all time , along with Adam Gilchrist , Chris Gayle and Wasim Akram . The BBC revealed the greatest ODI XI of all time after voters cast their votes over the last week and Tendulkar has been voted as one of the best opening batsman in the greatest one-day team ever . People voted over the last week for the different components of the team from a list of players nominated by the Test Match Special team , the BBC reported . The only criterion set was that the players must have appeared in an ODI , with World Cup performances carrying no extra weight . The greatest ODI XI squad is broken down into opening batsmen , middle-order batsmen , all-rounders , wicketkeepers , pace bowlers and spin bowlers . The greatest ODI opening batsmen are West Indies ' Gayle and India 's Tendulkar . Tendulkar has played 463 ODIs , scoring 18,426 runs at an average of 44.83 with a strike-rate of 86.23. The batting maestro is the one to hold the record for most ODIs , most ODI runs and most ODI tons. He was also the first man to score a one-day double ton . Former England cricketer Michael Vaughan said that when Tendulkar was on form , one could n't bowl to him , adding that one could have all the plans in the world , but if it was the Indian batsman 's day one had no chance . Tendulkar claimed 29 percent of the votes for the opening batsman with Gayle winning 25 . The greatest middle-order batsmen are AB De Villiers from South Africa , West Indies ' Brain Lara and Sir Vivian Richards. The wicketkeeper is former Australian skipper Adam Gilchrist . South Africa 's Jacques Kallis was voted the greatest ODI all-rounder of all time . Retired Australian pace express Brett Lee and ex-seamer Glenn McGrath , along with Pakistan pace legend Wasim Akram were voted as the greatest ODI fast bowlers of all time . Moreover , Australian spin legend Shane Warne , was voted as the greatest ODI spinner of all time , the report added . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
