Salve appeals to SC : Make Mudgal report public The author has posted comments on this article Dhananjay Mahapatra , TNN | Nov 26 , 2014 , 11.25AM IST The committee had found that Meiyappan had indulged in betting both for and against CSK during the IPL 2013. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The Cricket Association of Bihar on Tuesday attempted to nail India Cements ' double speak on Gurunath Meiyappan , son-in-law of cricket board president N Srinivasan , by producing before the Supreme Court a letter written by a company official to the BCCI relating to Chennai Super Kings ' ownership . Appearing for the CAB , senior advocate Harish Salve showed to the court a letter written by the India Cements to the BCCI for accreditation purposes in which it described Meiyappan as a director of the company as well as " owner " of CSK. On the basis of the letter , Salve argued before a bench of Justices T S Thakur and F M I Kalifulla that Srinivasan 's control over BCCI as president , over India Cements as its managing director and over CSK as team owner was all pervasive . That was the reason why the 'operation camouflage ' to term Meiyappan as " mere cricket enthusiast " was activated when Justice Mudgal committee commenced its inquiry on apex court orders to lift the veil over Meiyappan 's status in CSK , Salve said . The committee had found that Meiyappan had indulged in betting both for and against CSK during the IPL 2013 edition of T20 tournament even when it came to the conclusion that he was a " team official " of CSK. The committee had noted in its report the attempts to suppress the actual status of Meiyappan by India Cements officials , Srinivasan and CSK captain and India Cements vice-president M S Dhoni . Salve said the letter from India Cements to the BCCI terming Meiyappan as CSK owner and company director was authored by K Vishwanathan , as long-time assistant to Srinivasan both in India Cements and BCCI . " Vishwanathan was an employee of India Cements , worked with Srinivasan in BCCI and as designated approver for CSK and he said Meiyappan was the owner of CSK , " Salve said . Referring to the speculations over the names of the players mentioned in the Justice Mudgal panel 's report , Salve told the bench it would be better to make the entire report public though he had reservations earlier on . " Please make it public otherwise all players are being branded as corrupt. It is better to know what the committee has said in its report rather than allow the speculations to run riot putting every player in the specter of speculation. Sunlight is the best disinfectant , " he said . Counsel for BCCI and Srinivasan , senior advocates C A Sundaram and Kapil Sibal , opposed the idea of making the report public. Sibal said the issue before the court was on a narrow compass - what should be the course of action on the findings of the Mudgal report. " Enlarging the scope and going into all ancillary aspects would be a waste of time , " he said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
