Sarfraz effects record-equalling six dismissals The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 7 , 2015 , 04.38PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Drafted into the playing XI for the first time in the ongoing cricket World Cup , Pakistan wicketkeeper Sarfraz Ahmed made an instant impact with a record-equalling six catches and 49 runs in the team 's upset win over South Africa , here on Saturday . The other players to have effected six dismissals in a One-day International match include Australia 's Adam Gilchrist , India 's Mahendra Singh Dhoni , South Africans Mark Boucher and Quinton de Kock , West Indies ' Ridley Jacobs , England 's Alec Stewart , Jos Butler , Matt Prior and Scotland 's Matthew Cross . Pakistan , who recorded their third win in pool B , rose to third in the table and Man of the Match Sarfraz played a key role after giving his team a good start while opening the batting and then combined with the pacers to stop South Africa from reaching their D/L revised target . Sarfraz , who missed the first four games as Pakistan chose Umar Akmal to keep wickets , scored a run-a-ball knock , laced with five fours and three sixes to contribute to the team 's 222 all out in in 46.4 overs . But it was his work behind the stumps that really mattered as the keeper took some stunning catches to give the Pakistan pacers Mohammad Irfan , Sohail Khan , Rahat Ali and Wahab Riaz the right support . It all started with Quinton de Kock 's ( 0 ) wicket off Irfan and then he brought the downfall of Hashim Amla ( 38 ) and Faf de Plessis ( 27 ) . Dale Steyn ( 16 ) and De Villiers ( 77 ) also saw the white ball sail into Sarfraz 's gloves and the final wicket off Imran Tahir ( 0 ) sounded the death knell for South Africa . The 27-year-old Safraz , who would have been itching to make a mark in the 50-over showpiece event , certainly impressed one and all with his all-round show . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
