Schedule , tough surfaces aggravate Indian players ' injuries The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 4 , 2015 , 10.08AM IST After Ishant picked up a knee injury before the final Test , Bhuvneshwar was hastily drafted into the Sydney Test. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : The hard surfaces and tough schedules in Australia are the main reasons for Indian bowlers taking longer than usual to recover from injuries . A team source told TOI that normally the type of injuries Ishant Sharma and Bhuvneshwar Kumar have carried on the tour , they ought to have recovered in three weeks ' time . " But here in Australia due to hard surfaces at grounds like WACA , Gabba and Adelaide and even in the practice areas , they are taking longer to recover from injuries and are in fact aggravating them , " the source said . " The break from cricket has come at the right time for players like Ishant ( knee ) , Bhuvi ( ankle ) and Ravindra Jadeja ( shoulder ) and Rohit Sharma ( hamstring ) as they are nursing stubborn injuries. When the team is training , these players tend to put in extra effort and the hard surfaces only make it worse , " he said . " Take the case of Ishant. He was fit and thus included to play the Sydney match against Australia in the tri-series. But the January 26 game was washed out and his fitness could not be tested. In Perth , where the surface is believed to be much harder , he put a lot of strain on his knees during practice and became unfit as his injury flared up again. We are hopeful he will make a complete recovery by the time India resume training on Friday , " he said , his fingers crossed . Bhuvneshwar has been nursing an ankle injury for almost two months now and was initially ruled out of the first two Tests against Australia. Since the injury was unlikely to heal in time for the third Test , Dhawal Kulkarni was called up as cover. It is learnt that the team management had been instructed not to rush him back since he was expected to play a vital role in the tri-series as well as in the World Cup . But after Ishant picked up a knee injury before the final Test , Bhuvi was hastily drafted into the Sydney Test , as he had shown signs of recovery by then. But bowling on the hard surface aggravated his injury and since then he has played just two matches in the tri-series , in which he has been a pale shadow of himself . Carrying the injury right a through the tour , Bhuvi has , looked quite downcast and off the boil. In fact , Mohit Sharma , a standby , was preferred to Bhuvi in the league match against England in Perth . " This does not augur well. But we have a few days ' time to reassess his recovery and decide accordingly , " he said " Though losing is never a good option , the Indian players did get a couple of extra days to rest after they failed to make it to the tri-series final , " the source said . " It will be good , especially for Rohit Sharma. He has come out well from his hamstring injury and would have played the final had India made it. Ravindra Jadeja too has been careful about his shoulder injury and only fielded in the inner circle during the Perth match . " We have our fingers crossed as bowling in these tough conditions can anytime aggravate an injury. Thus , there is a cloud over Ishant and Bhuvi and we will not know how far they have recovered till the Indian team resumes training on Friday. Luckily , we have Kulkarni and Mohit as standbys and they have been training with the team for over a month. They are well acclimatized now . " We will take a call on the injured players on Saturday , to see if they are fit to play the warm-up game against Australia at the Oval here on Sunday. We have another game lined up , a much lighter warm-up against Afghanistan on Tuesday next. By then , we would have assessed the fitness levels of these players and decided on their fate in the World Cup , " he concluded . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
