SC judgment to enforce accountability in BCCI : Justice Mudgal The author has posted comments on this article Dhananjay Mahapatra , TNN | Jan 23 , 2015 , 02.26AM IST It was Justice Mudgal Committee which had come down hard on Meiyappan by piercing his camouflage and identifying him as an official of Chennai Super Kings and holding him guilty for betting during IPL 2013 . Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Former Punjab and Haryana High Court Chief Justice Mukul Mudgal , who headed the committee that inquired into IPL 2013 betting and spot fixing scam , on Thursday said the landmark Supreme Court verdict would ensure transparency and accountability not only in BCCI but also in other sports bodies . The SC on Thursday barred N Srinivasan from contesting coming BCCI elections. A bench of Justices T S Thakur and F M I Kalifulla based its judgment on a meticulous inquiry report submitted by the court-appointed three-member inquiry panel headed by Justice Mudgal and also comprising senior advocates L Nageswar Rao and Nilya Dutta . The bench repelled all challenges to the findings of Justice Mudgal panel report and appointed another committee headed by former CJI R M Lodha to determine the punishment to be awarded to Srinivasan 's son-in-law Gurunath Meiyappan , Chennai Super Kings , Raj Kundra and Rajasthan Royals . It was Justice Mudgal Committee which had come down hard on Meiyappan by piercing his camouflage and identifying him as an official of Chennai Super Kings and holding him guilty for betting during IPL 2013. But the panel had said there was no evidence to link Srinivasan to betting activities of Meiyappan. It , however , flagged the possible conflict of interest that arose in the functioning of Srinivasan as the board president while being the owner of IPL team CSK . Justice Mudgal said it was " gratifying to know that the Supreme Court found our report meticulous " . Speaking to TOI from Jaipur , where he is attending the literary festival , Justice Mudgal said : " the judgment will certainly improve transparency and public accountability in the functioning of Board for Control of Cricket in India ( BCCI ) and other sports bodies. " He said one of the most important things the Supreme Court has touched upon was the " conflict of interest " issue , a malady that affects most sports bodies. " If a guideline is laid down on the conflict of interest issue , it will be huge step forward to curb the family fiefdom created in several sports bodies and check relatives of important post holders from contesting elections to become office bearers , " he said . Asked about his experience during the inquiry process , Justice Mudgal said : " It was tough , time consuming but after preparing the report myself and my team members all felt that it was worth spending the time and energy on the issue. A very large number of witnesses were examined and nothing was left to chance. Everything was meticulously recorded and analyzed. " " I am a student of cricket. And the inquiry proceedings were a learning curve for all of us , " he said. However , he said there was never any external pressure exerted on the inquiry panel. " To the credit of BCCI , it fully cooperated in the inquiry process , " he said . On Justice Mudgal panel , the SC judgment said : " We place on record out deep appreciation for the work done by the Probe Committee headed by Justice Mudgal and all those who assisted the committee in the probe and its early completion. " It directed that the panel report be sent to the new committee headed by Justice R M Lodha for determining the punishment for Meiyappan , Kundra , CSK and RR . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
