SC okays Srinivasan for ICC poll The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Jun 13 , 2014 , 05.50AM IST A bench of Justices AK Patnaik and FMI Kalifulla had ordered Srinivasan to keep away from official functions of the cricket board president during pendency of the inquiry. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The Supreme Court on Thursday said the ongoing inquiry by Justice Mukul Mudgal panel into certain charges against BCCI president N Srinivasan was no ground to stop him from running for the chairmanship of International Cricket Council ( ICC ) . A vacation bench of Justices JS Khehar and C Nagappan refused to entertain an interim application by Cricket Association of Bihar ( CAB ) , which requested the court to restrain Srinivasan from contesting for the ICC post . Senior advocate Ajit Kumar Sinha , appearing for CAB , said the court had asked Srinivasan not to discharge any duty of the cricket board president after finding the unverified charges " very serious " and reassigning the inquiry to Justice Mudgal panel , which had found Srinivasan 's son-in-law Gurunath Meiyappan guilty of betting while being an official of IPL franchise Chennai Super Kings . Sinha said it would lead to conflict of interest as well as be incongruous to allow Srinivasan to participate in the ICC elections as Indian cricket board president at a time when he was facing serious charges and was stripped of his duties , which have been assigned to two interim presidents in Sunil Gavaskar and Shivlal Yadav . But the bench said , " There is no conflict of interest. The court 's order is clear. " The bench refused to entertain the application . A bench of Justices AK Patnaik and FMI Kalifulla had ordered Srinivasan to keep away from official functions of the cricket board president during pendency of the inquiry into certain charges that the Mudgal panel had submitted in a sealed cover along with its report on inquiry into allegations of spot fixing and betting during IPL 6 last year . However , the bench headed by Justice Patnaik had said , " As we are yet to hear all the parties in these matters , we can not at this stage form any opinion and pass orders on the basis of such opinion for removal of Mr Srinivasan from the post of the president of the BCCI. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
