SC orders fresh probe against IPL COO Sundar Rajan The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Jan 23 , 2015 , 02.36AM IST The Justice Mudgal Probe Committee had said that Sundar Raman knew a contact of a bookie and had contacted him 8 times in one IPL season . Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The Supreme Court on Thursday ordered fresh probe against IPL chief operating officer Sundar Raman for allegedly sharing 350 phone calls during IPL tournament with Vindoo Dara Singh , who was found to be involved in betting by Justice Mudgal Probe Committee . The Committee had said that Raman knew a contact of a bookie and had contacted him 8 times in one IPL season. " Raman also admitted knowing the contact of the bookies but however claimed to be unaware of his connection with betting activities. This individual also accepted that he had received information about Meiyappan and Kundra taking part in betting activities but was informed by the ICC anti-corruption unit chief that this was not actionable information. This individual also accepted that this information was not conveyed to any other individual , " it had said . A bench of Justices T S Thakur and F M I Kalifulla said : " the Probe Committee has stopped short of recording a specific finding regarding the complicity of Sundar Raman in the betting racket , nor is there any explicit justification provided by the report for the finding that 8 and not 350 calls were made between Sundar Raman and Vindoo Dara Singh. " " The observations made ( in the probe report ) regarding his role and conduct simply give rise to a serious suspicion about his involvement in the betting affairs of the team owners/officials apart from suggesting that having received information about betting activities in connection with IPL matches , he remained totally inert in the matter instead of taking suitable action warranted under the circumstances , " the bench said . " We are not inclined to let go the allegations made against Sundar Raman go un-probed , even if it means a further investigation by the investigating team provided to the probe committee or by any other means. Truth about allegations , made against Raman , must be brought to light , for it is only then that all suspicions about the fraudulent activities and practices floating in the media against the BCCI and its administrators in several proceedings before different courts can be given a quietus , " it said . While setting up a committee comprising three retired judges headed by former CJI R M Lodha , the bench said : " the new committee shall also examine the role of Sundar Raman with or without further investigation , into his activities , and if found guilty , impose a suitable punishment upon him on behalf of BCCI. " The apex court said this was necessary as Raman has held and continued to hold a very important position in the entire system and " was the spirit behind entire exercise and can not be said to be unconcerned with what goes on in the course of the IPL tournament especially if it has the potential of bringing disrepute to the game/BCCI. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
