Scots ca n't rain on Alastair Cook 's parade The author has posted comments on this article AFP | May 10 , 2014 , 12.43PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ABERDEEN : England captain Alastair Cook saw the willingness of all concerned to persevere in less than ideal conditions end in a 39-run victory for his side against Scotland . As rain before and during the match reduced Friday 's one-day international at Aberdeen 's Mannofield to a 20 overs per side contest , the minimum required to declare a result , it was easy to recall many an England side who would have made it clear to the officials they were in no mood to carry on . But in their first match of Peter Moores 's second spell as England coach , and with the team keen to restore their reputation with the cricketing public , the visitors played on at a sodden ground in a match where the start was delayed by five-and-a-half hours . England , sent into bat by Scotland captain Kyle Coetzer , compiled 167 for six in their 20 , with Ian Bell making a fluent 50 and fellow opener Cook 44 . Scotland , set a Duckworth/Lewis adjusted victory target of 173 , lost both their openers to James Anderson before local hero Michael Leask rocked England with 42 off just 16 balls including five sixes . But when Leask fell to off-spinner James Tredwell , who took a one-day international best four for 41 , Scotland 's challenge against their 2015 World Cup pool opponents petered out . " Those were borderline conditions to play in , " said Cook. " But just in a one-off game , with not so much riding on it , I think it was the right decision . " I think it would have been wrong if we had n't -- and credit to both sides for just getting on with it. " Prior to the one mid-match stoppage , Cook and Bell , who put on 83 for the first wicket , kept batting during a heavy downpour and so helping to buy enough time for the fixture to be played to a finish . " Those conditions are as wet as I have ever fielded in , " said Cook. " It probably was n't fit to play , if you are being totally honest . " I was in standing water at mid-off , and there were other patches like that. But both sides just got on with it . " I thought the way Scotland fielded , especially in those conditions , was exceptional. " The left-hander added : " We were asking 'How wet does it have to get ? ' I was actually going to ask for a towel to dry my grip , because I could n't grip my bat . " When the umps came and said 'Look , it 's going to take a lot longer to mop up properly -- but do you want to just get on with it ? ' Kyle and his team said 'yes'. " England were in dire need of a victory after a humiliating 45-run loss to the Netherlands at the World Twenty20 in Chittagong last time out which came hot on the heels of their 5-0 Ashes drubbing in Australia . But as long as Aberdeen-born Leask was at the crease the prospect of fresh embarrassment remained . " He was dangerous , was n't he ? " said an admiring Cook. " The only people who timed the ball were he and Belly , and they did it beautifully . " He ( Leask ) has got a lovely swing of the bat -- and when he hit it , it stayed hit . " It would have needed him to get 80 or 90 to do it ... but while he was still in , it was definitely a possibility. " The 23-year-old Leask , named man-of-the-match for his heroics , added : " I 'm quite a confident person when I go into bat . " I know I can hit the ball quite cleanly...and if I am straight I usually connect quite well. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
