SC refuses to put Srinivasan back in BCCI saddle The author has posted comments on this article Dhananjay Mahapatra , TNN | Sep 2 , 2014 , 12.16PM IST The bench of Justices Thakur and Kalifulla said signing of accounts was not such an important job to entertain Srinivasan 's request. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : With the Indian cricket board ( BCCI ) elections drawing near , the Supreme Court on Monday gave a thumbs-down to the possibility of N Srinivasan being reinstated as board president till investigations into spot-fixing and betting in the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) were completed . The bench also granted the Justice Mukul Mudgal panel a two-month extension to probe corruption charges. Srinivasan on Monday told the Supreme Court that prolonged inquiry by the Mudgal committee was robbing him of his right to work as head of the board and discharge an important function - to sign the accounts before elections . Appearing before Justices TS Thakur and FMI Kalifulla , senior advocate Kapil Sibal said , " Srinivasan should be allowed to function as BCCI president. The probe panel has not found anything against him. He had given a voluntary undertaking to keep away from BCCI during pendency of the inquiry. But the way the inquiry is lingering , he wants to withdraw the voluntary undertaking. " The bench of Justices Thakur and Kalifulla said signing of accounts was not such an important job to entertain Srinivasan 's request . " Account signing is not a ground for us to reinstate Srinivasan , " it said. However , the bench agreed with Sibal that the inquiry could not keep meandering . Giving two months more to the Justice Mudgal panel as per its request to wind up the inquiry , it said , " Unless you expedite the inquiry , it could , as Sibal says , go on for five years. It is going to be tough for the committee. It is a tough assignment. There is so much to be done and the inquiry has to be expedited . You ( the committee ) have no dearth of manpower as it has a special team of distinguished officers. " The bench asked the committee 's counsel Raju Ramachadran to impress upon the panel to expedite the investigations . What Sibal did not tell the court - he was not the counsel then - was the scathing criticism faced by Srinivasan on March 25 for not stepping aside while the court was considering entrusting Justice Mudgal panel with the probe into unverified charges against him and 12 others , including some eminent former cricketers . The unverified charges were submitted by the Justice Mudgal panel in a sealed cover to the court along with its inquiry report on the spot fixing and betting charges that cast a shadow on last year 's IPL . The panel had in its main report indicted Srinivasan 's son-in-law Gurunath Meiyappan for indulging in betting . On March 25 , a bench of Justices A K Patnaik ( since retired ) and Kalifulla had said , " In our opinion , Srinivasan has to step down if proper probe is to be done in the case. We do n't like to damage people 's reputation but unless the BCCI president steps down , no fair investigation can be done. Why is he sticking to the chair ? It is nauseating. " Srinivasan then gave the 'voluntary undertaking ' to stay away from BCCI affairs . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
