SC to decide Srinivasan 's fate today in conflict of interest case The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Jan 22 , 2015 , 02.48AM IST The SC bench had on December 17 reserved its verdict on Srinivasan 's re-election plea but had indicated that the judgment could formulate accountability standards for ill-managed sports bodies to eliminate nepotism and conflict of interest. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The Supreme Court will pronounce its verdict on BCCI 's hibernating president N Srinivasan on Thursday and clear the suspense about his eligibility to seek re-election for the cricket board 's top post given the controversy over his wearing two hats - cricket administrator and owner of an IPL team . READ ALSO : Mudgal panel refuses to give clean chit to Srinivasan A bench of Justices T S Thakur and F M I Kalifulla , which heard the counsel for BCCI and Srinivasan on one side and rival Cricket Association of Bihar ( CAB ) on the other , has listed the petition for judgment on Thursday afternoon . The bench had on December 17 reserved its verdict on Srinivasan 's re-election plea but had indicated that the judgment could formulate accountability standards for ill-managed sports bodies to eliminate nepotism and conflict of interest . READ ALSO : Uncertainty over Srinivasan and CSK deepens The deeper scrutiny of incidents relating to IPL betting and spot-fixing scam by the bench had led to a debate on 'conflict of interest ' within BCCI headed by Srinivasan , who as managing director of India Cements owned IPL franchise Chennai Super Kings . Chennai Super Kings team principal Gurunath Meiyappan ( right ) with Mahendra Singh Dhoni ( left ) and Stephen Fleming. ( TOI Photo ) One of the moot points of adjudication which had emerged during the arguments was the amendment to BCCI Rules in 2008 allowing board officials to have commercial interest in IPL matches . Appearing for Srinivasan , senior advocate Kapil Sibal had challenged petitioner CAB and its secretary Aditya Verma to give a single instance where Srinivasan had acted in conflict of interest and caused loss to the board while favouring himself or his team . The bench had pointed to a decision by the IPL governing council , whose meeting was attended by Srinivasan , to compensate Rs 13 crore to CSK for an abandoned Champions League match . " How could you have decided your case ? The fact that the money was returned by CSK made no difference to the conflict of interest on your part when the decision was taken , " the bench had said . Sibal quickly made amends and said , " Apart from that single incident , there has been no other allegation in the last eight years. " The petition by CAB had opened a Pandora 's box in the management of IPL and BCCI. The court-appointed Justice Mukul Mudgal Committee , also comprising senior advocates L Nageswar Rao and Nilay Dutta , had found Srinivasan 's son-in-law guilty of indulging in betting during IPL 2013 despite being a CSK team official . Though the committee had cleared Srinivasan of betting or any wrongdoing , it had raised serious questions about possible conflict of interest against him . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
