SC to test legality of rule allowing Srinivasan to wear two hats The author has posted comments on this article Dhananjay Mahapatra , TNN | Dec 16 , 2014 , 09.23AM IST The Supreme Court decided to test the validity of an amendment to BCCI rules which permitted N Srinivasan to own Chennai Super Kings. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The Supreme Court on Monday decided to test the validity of an amendment to BCCI rules which permitted board president N Srinivasan to own IPL franchisee Chennai Super Kings , raising serious allegations of 'conflict of interest' . The issue of 'conflict of interest ' and wearing of multiple hats by Srinivasan had been often referred to by a bench of Justices TS Thakur and FMI Kalifulla , which has been hearing a petition by Cricket Association of Bihar that had resulted in the apex court setting up an inquiry panel under Justice Mukul Mudgal to probe betting and match-fixing charges in IPL 2013 . Former board president IS Bindra 's counsel Rajeev Dhavan said the apex court should give a ruling on 'conflict of interest ' , which was legalised through the amendment to Rule 6.4.2 in 2008 allowing a cricket administrator to own an IPL franchisee. Earlier , the rules barred BCCI office bearers from having any commercial interest in the events conducted by the board . Dhavan said the amendments had given cricket administrators " the immunity to do things with impunity " and it must be stopped to prevent the " game from going to the dogs " . Srinivasan 's counsel Kapil Sibal countered saying Bindra had endorsed the amendment to the rule 6.4.2 in BCCI 's AGM . The bench ordered that the petition filed by CAB challenging the amendment to the rules be tagged with the one that had originally challenged constitution of a committee of two retired judges set up by BCCI last year to probe the IPL betting scam in the wake of arrest of Gurunath Meiyappan ( Srinivasan 's son-in-law ) and a few players. The court will hear arguments on Tuesday . Earlier , IPL 's COO , Sundar Raman , told the court through senior advocate V Giri that he was a mere employee of BCCI and could have done little to stem the rot - which was made public by police and Justice Mudgal Committee . " I was informed by ICC 's anti-corruption services unit head YP Singh that he had heard rumours about many franchisee owners indulging in betting. I had asked him whether the information needed action to be taken. However , Singh had told me that these were only rumours and that there was no evidence to back the information , " Sundar Raman said . He said : " I am a mere paid employee of BCCI. I had just heard rumours. I could not have acted without evidence . If I had , then I would have put my job in jeopardy. Please discharge me from these proceedings as there is no finding from the Justice Mudgal Committee that I had indulged in betting. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
