SC verdict will impact all sports bodies : Mudgal The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jan 22 , 2015 , 08.31PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Welcoming the Supreme Court verdict barring N Srinivasan from contesting any BCCI election on grounds of conflict of interest , head of IPL 6 spot-fixing and betting probe committee Justice Mukul Mudgal on Thursday said that it will have far reaching ramifications as it will also impact on all sports bodies . Delivering its long-awaited verdict , the court today held that the allegation of betting against Gurunath Meiyappan , a CSK team official and son-in-law of the BCCI President-in-exile and Rajasthan Royals co-owner Raj Kundra stands proved while the charge of cover up against Srinivasan " is not proved " . The SC also set up a judges committee under a former Chief Justice of India to decide on the punishment in the IPL scam that can threaten the future of Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals . Justice Mudgal , head of the apex court-appointed three-member committee , said the SC decision will also apply to all sports bodies . " The judgment is a major advancement in public law. Being the SC verdict , it affects all sports bodies in the country. Conflict of interest arises not only in sports but also in all public bodies , " he said " Justices T S Thakur and F M I Kalifulla who have given the verdict deserve compliments from the entire legal and sports fraternity. It will lead to more accountability. An apex court judgment is binding on the entire country. We have to accept it , " he added . " It advances public law , administration of sports body and its fairness and also establishes the principle of conflict of interest which is present in every facet of life and this judgment will have far reaching consequences and ramifications , " Justice Mudgal said . He said the probe committee led by him had also found the allegation of betting against Meiyappan and Kundra to be proved . " Our findings also said the same. The Supreme Court found that on its own. In that sense it was satisfactory that the SC had accepted our report , " he said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
