Sehwag wishes Team India ahead of World Cup title defence The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jan 9 , 2015 , 05.30PM IST Virender Sehwag displays the ICC World Cup 2015 trophy at an event in Gurgaon on Friday. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 GURGAON : With the ICC World Cup just a little over a month away , out-of-favour batsman Virender Sehwag on Friday wished the Indian team and hoped that the Mahendra Singh Dhoni-led side would be able to defend its title in Australia and New Zealand . " We are going to play the World Cup and we are the defending champion , so I hope we do well and bring this trophy to India and give lot of joy to Indian public , " Sehwag said posing with the ICC World Cup Trophy which was showcased to cricket fans at Cyber Hub . " I would like to say thanks to ICC and LG for bringing me here and giving me the opportunity to meet all of you and to lift the trophy again. We did it in 2011 after the World Cup and spend loads of time with the trophy and I 'm lucky that I 'm getting to spend a little time with the trophy again and with you guys also , " he added . The prestigious trophy is touring the country as part of a programme started by global sponsor of ICC , LG Electronics . Starting from Kolkata , the trophy has travelled across five cities including Hyderabad , Mumbai and will conclude its tour on Saturday after being showcased at GIP Mall , Noida . A 30-feet bat was also placed alongside the World Cup trophy as part of the signature campaign for fans to write their messages to the Indian team ahead of World Cup to be held from February 14 to March 29 . Sehwag along with Yuvraj Singh , Harbhajan Singh and Gautam Gambhir , all of whom were part of the Indian team that won the 2011 World Cup failed to make it to the list of 30 probables for the mega tournament to be played in Australia and New Zealand . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
