Seniors left out in probables list for 2015 World Cup The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Dec 4 , 2014 , 03.52PM IST Virender Sehwag and Yuvraj Singh were omitted from India 's 30-member list of probables for the next year 's World Cup. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : India 's out-of-favour senior cricketers like Virender Sehwag , Yuvraj Singh and Gautam Gambhir were omitted from the 30-member probables list for next year 's World Cup with the selectors reposing faith on the young guns to retain the title in Australia and New Zealand . Off-spinner Harbhajan Singh and pacer Zaheer Khan , who were a part of the 2011 World Cup winning team along with Sehwag , Yuvraj and Gambhir , were also left out of the list , putting a question mark on their future given that none of the five have featured in an ODI for the last one year . Apart from the famed five , pacers Ashish Nehra and Munaf Patel , spinner Piyush Chawla and all-rounder Yusuf Pathan were also among the players axed from the list announced by BCCI Secretary Sanjay Patel after a meeting of the selection committee . Jammu and Kashmir all-rounder Parveez Rasool , Uttar Pradesh spinner Kuldeep Yadav , batting duo of Manish Pandey and Kedar Jadhav along with spinner Axar Patel benefitted from the overhaul , riding on their consistent performance in the domestic circuit . With the selectors opting to ignore the out-of-favour seniors , there were no major surprises on offer in the list of probables . The selectors included all-rounder Stuart Binny and in-form batsman Manoj Tiwary and young wicketkeeper-batsman Sanju Samson in the list which would be further pruned to 15 in early January ahead of the World Cup starting February 14 . Eleven players from the 2011 World Cup-winning squad will not be seen in action when the team goes Down Under to defend the trophy. While most of them have been ignored for poor form , Sachin Tendulkar has retired and pacer S Sreesanth has been banned for spot-fixing . Of all the players ignored , Yuvraj 's journey has been the most dramatic. The left-handed batsman was named Player of the Tournament for his fantastic run in the 2011 World Cup but his career took a hit after he had to undergo treatment for rare form of germ cell cancer between his lungs . His attempts at a comeback were not too successful and he was eventually pushed to the sidelines . Of the selected players , captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni , Virat Kohli , Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Ajinkya Rahane , Suresh Raina , R Ashwin , Ravindra Jadeja picked themselves after delivering consistently . Among the bowlers , pacer Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Ishant Sharma , Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav , Varun Aaron , Dhawal Kulkarni , Mohit Sharma and Ashoke Dinda got the selectors ' nod by virtue of their fine performances in both the international and domestic circuit . Apart from Dhoni , the list has two wicketkeepers in Wriddhiman Saha and young Sanju Samson , who has also impressed with his batting in the domestic arena . Cheteshwar Pujara , who is regarded a Test specialist , Pragyan Ojha , Dinesh Karthik and Naman Ojha were among the other notable omissions . Murali Vijay , Ambati Rayudu and Robin Uthappa , who have been in and out of the national squad in recent times have also found a place in the probables list . India World Cup probables : Mahendra Singh Dhoni , Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Ajinkya Rahane , Robin Uthappa , Virat Kohli , Suresh Raina , Ambati Rayudu , Kedar Jadhav , Manoj Tiwary , Manish Pandey , Wriddhiman Saha , Sanju Samson , R Ashwin , Parveez Rasool , Karn Sharma , Amit Mishra , Ravindra Jadeja , Axar Patel , Ishant Sharma , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav , Varun Aaron , Dhawal Kulkarni , Stuart Binny , Mohit Sharma , Ashoke Dinda , Kuldeep Yadav and Murali Vijay . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
