Series will not be docile : MS Dhoni The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 17 , 2014 , 10.30AM IST Dhoni pointed out that being aggressive beyond a point was not permissible. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : India skipper MS Dhoni chose to mix caution with aggression while fielding questions from the media on the controversial spat between Ravindra Jadeja and James Anderson at Trent Bridge that prompted the Indian team management to complain to the ICC that their player had been verbally " abused " and also physically " pushed " by the England pacer during the altercation . Dhoni , who stonewalled all questions on the issue , saying the matter was now with the ICC , however , pointed out that being aggressive beyond a point was not permissible under guidelines laid down by the world body . " We talk a lot about the spirit of cricket. There are guidelines that need to be followed. In the past , there have been individuals from our side who have crossed the line . You can be aggressive and vocal , but you ca n't cross boundaries , " said Dhoni , adding that he would do his best to make sure that the rest of the series is played in the right spirit . " Definitely , I would like to make sure that the remainder of the series is played in the right spirit , but at the same time it is not going to be docile. We want players to be aggressive , say a few things , but it is our responsibility to play the game in the right spirit. We will try our best to maintain that. " The Indian captain praised Jadeja for keeping his head in spite of provocation from the other side and maintained that there was no place for physical aggression in the game . " Let 's face it. At a press conference you can ask me tough questions. I have the right to answer them or not to answer them , but there is no way I can go and touch you. Or you can come and touch me , " stated Dhoni , who also made it very clear that had his team not taken a " very serious " view of the incident , they would not have taken the case to the ICC . " It is not something that has happened for the first time. Usually , we have always been at the receiving end where somebody starts something and we retaliate. We have got fined for different kinds of offences levelled against us , " Dhoni said . " It was good on Jadeja 's part not to react. I felt he addressed the situation in the most appropriate manner. That 's something we have to learn and move forward. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
