Seven wonders of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 The author has posted comments on this article Avijit Ghosh , TNN | Mar 31 , 2015 , 09.17AM IST Daniel Vettori looks where his feet are on the boundry after taking a catch to dismiss Marlon Samuels. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 The 2015 edition had plenty of thrills , spills and heartaches. Avijit Ghosh revisits those defining moments that will endure in memory.. . Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 VETTORI 'S ONE-HANDED GRAB The Kiwis had posted an imposing 393 but the Windies , led by Chris Gayle and Marlon Samuels , came out all guns blazing. Samuels ' upper cut looked destined to soar over third man . But 36-year-old Daniel Vettori leapt like a tall caracal to snare the ball. Every Kiwi fielder ran to him in glee and disbelief. The crowd simply gasped . AB DE VILLIERS ' COREY MISS One of the best fielder in the world , the South African captain failed to collect a routine throw that gave Kiwi all-rounder Corey Anderson a fresh lease of life and proved fatal for South Africa in the semis . WILLIAMSON 'S SIX The Aussies had been bundled out for 151. But with Starc causing devastation , the target almost became a bridge too far. Nine wickets were gone. That 's when Williamson , the coolest guy in the stadium , showed six stumps and smote Cummins over long on. Game over . ELLIOT 'S STRIKE The Johannesburg-born Grant Elliott perfectly executed the most important shot in New Zealand 's cricket history. His heart-stopping six off Dale Steyn took the Kiwis to their first final and broke South African hearts. Again . Grant Elliott ( L ) celebrates hitting the winning runs during the semifinal against South Africa. ( AFP Photo ) ROHIT SHARMA 'S NO-BALL It did n't look like a waist-high no-ball but umpire Aleem Dar saw something different.And Rohit , who was caught at 90 , went on to score 137. It was one of those debatable decisions that happen in every other game. But Bangladesh saw it as a major conspiracy , a sign of Indian dominance in the ICC.Even PM Sheikh Haseena spoke out against the decision . RAHAT GIVES RELIEF TO SHANE WATSON With Wahab Riaz spewing venom , Pakistan sensed a chance to stun the Aussies in a crucial group game. Riaz was in the middle of what was later called 'spell of the World Cup, ' hustling the Australians with pace and bounce. Australia were struggling at 83 for 3 when Shane Watson skied an attempted hook off Riaz. However , to the horror of the Pakistani team and its fans , Rahat Ali spilled the simple catch at deep fine-leg. Watson took the Aussies home . Brendon McCullum is bowled by Mitchell Starc for a duck during the World Cup final. ( AFP Photo ) STARC CASTLES MCCULLUM The Kiwi captain had redefined belligerence in ODIs. Just 8-10 overs at the crease and he could alter a game 's fate . But in the final , Starc 's pace and swing was too good for him . McCullum faced three deliveries and could n't get anywhere close. He went for a blob , clean bowled. His dismissal did more than put the Kiwis on the back foot. It killed the game . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
