Shaharyar called manager for Sarfraz inclusion : PCB Source The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 29 , 2015 , 03.37PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 KARACHI : It took a phone call and strict orders from PCB Chairman Shaharyar Khan to the manager of the World Cup squad before wicketkeeper-batsman Sarfraz Ahmed was finally given a chance to play in the tournament . Sarfraz 's late selection for the World Cup matches became a major talking point in Pakistan during the tournament . A well-informed source close to the PCB chairman told PTI today that after head coach Waqar Younis and captain Misbah-ul-Haq had stubbornly refused to play Sarfraz in the first four matches of the World Cup , Shaharyar lost his cool and called up manager Naved Akram Cheema . " Shaharyar made it clear to Cheema that there was no justification for not playing Sarfraz after the continued failures of opener Nasir Jamshed and the matter was turning into a political one , " the source disclosed . " Shaharyar made it clear there was a strong feeling growing at home that Sarfraz 's continued ouster had something to do with the old Karachi-Lahore rivalry in cricket and it could snowball into a major issue , " the source revealed . " Although Waqar and Misbah have given the impression that they finally decided to give Sarfraz a chance purely on cricketing requirements in fact it was Shaharyar who told Cheema in clear terms that it was an order that the wicketkeeper be played in the next match , " the source said . Sarfraz caused embarrassment for the captain and coach , when in his first appearance of the tournament against South Africa he scored 49 as an opener and took five catches to win the man-of-the-match award . In his next match against Ireland he scored a hundred to again scoop up the player-of-the-match prize . Before he was played , Waqar and Misbah had insisted on playing Umar Akmal as a make-shift keeper and tried to justify keeping out the regular gloveman out by saying that he had failed with the bat in the matches leading up to the World Cup and did n't appear comfortable on pitches in New Zealand and Australia . " The fact is that Shaharyar got very angry after Nasir ( Jamshed ) was played again against UAE and failed and he then called up Cheema to order him to direct Waqar and Misbah to put a stop to the rubbish , " the source said . It is no secret that Shaharyar is a strong supporter and believer like many others in Sarfraz 's fighting qualities and has earmarked him as the future captain of the one-day and T20 side . The source said what irked Shaharyar was that even chief selector Moin Khan before he was called back home from the World Cup for his Casino incident had sided with the captain and coach in not playing Sarfraz . " So much so that when Muhammad Hafeez was injured and returned home Shaharyar advised Moin to call up either someone from a choice of four players uncapped openers , Sami Aslam and Babar Azam , test batsman Azhar Ali and off-spinner , Saeed Ajmal but the chief selector kept on insisting that they wanted Nasir Jamshed. " The source said that Moin had said that all three were on board to call up Nasir as a replacement for Hafeez even though Shaharyar pointed out that the opener after two hundreds in India three years back had done virtually nothing with the bat . He said this was also one of the reason 's for Shaharyar not wanting Moin to continue as chief selector . " When Moin met with the PCB chief in Karachi on Saturday he claimed he wanted to play Sarfraz and also did n't want Nasir as a replacement but had to go with the majority decision of Waqar and Misbah , " the source said . " But Shaharyar told him as chief selector it was his duty to do what was best for the team and not bow down to pressure from the captain and coach. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
