Shane Watson keen to conquer SCG demons The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Jan 4 , 2015 , 08.36AM IST Share on Linkedin The most sensitive of the four players in the Test team who witnessed the Hughes incident , the introverted Watson has n't had a good time of late , with the runs drying up and pundits questioning his place in the side. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Shane Watson came to a media interaction in Adelaide before the start of the series and nearly broke down. It seemed the most natural thing to do . Just days before , he had been only metres away , fielding , when Phillip Hughes was fatally struck by a bouncer at the Sydney Cricket Ground ( SCG ) . On Saturday , as he returned to the SCG for the first time after Hughes ' funeral , Watson seemed more at peace. For the briefest of moments he even seemed to have forgotten about Hughes as the Aussies jested their way through a photo-call with their 'Baggy Pink ' caps on . The most sensitive of the four players in the Test team who witnessed the Hughes incident , the introverted Watson has n't had a good time of late , with the runs drying up and pundits questioning his place in the side. True to form , he immediately admitted , " I am under pressure. " But it was Hughes ' memory which seemed to be uppermost on his mind . " It 's the first time I 've been back here since just before Hughes ' funeral , " he said. " It was always a time I was n't really looking forward to , coming back to this ground. But in the end , enough time has sort of passed to be able to find my own personal way to be able to deal with what happened to Phil. " It 's doubtful there are more articulate , or more honest players in this Aussie team. Watson admitted the incident had affected his game till the third Test of this series , and fears about playing the short ball would not disappear altogether. " I 'm sure once I get out in the middle and playing , those visions will be coming back. All those memories will come flooding back very quickly . " Melbourne was the first time after getting through the short ball that I started to feel more comfortable again. For the first couple of Test matches it was always in my mind.After Melbourne , I know that my instincts are going to be good enough to play the short ball well. " Shane Warne recently said Watson 's troubles on the field stemmed from being too uptight and intense , and Watson did n't seem to dispute the notion. " I can put too much pressure on myself when I 'm out there. I 'm always trying to find that perfect balance. If I am not performing , of course I 'm under pressure. " If he can get through the fourth Test without being assailed by memories of Hughes , Watson could do worse than give himself a pat on the back . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
