Sharif wishes Pakistan team success in World Cup The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 14 , 2015 , 10.00PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 KARACHI : Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif wished the Pakistan cricket team the very best for the ICC World Cup which got underway in Australia and New Zealand on Saturday . The Pakistani premier issued a message which included best wishes to the Pakistan team for its first match against arch-rivals India in the World Cup at Adelaide on Sunday . " The whole nation is praying for the success of the team and expects the boys to do their level best in this crucial fixture , " Sharif said . " Pakistan 's cricket team has brought many laurels to the country in the past , and the nation wants it to keep the national flag fluttering high every time it enters the arena and give its very best in all fields of the game , " his statement read . Sunday 's match has evoked an unprecedented wave of expectation and anticipation among Pakistanis with the theme being that Pakistan can beat India for the first time in a World Cup match after five previous failed attempts . Such is the interest in the match that majority of the news channels are airing special World Cup shows with the flavor of the day being " Takras " where experts and former players from both countries take part in a war of words on different channels . Nawaz Sharif 's statement also added that despite a few setbacks the team has undergone recently , the players should have firm faith in their abilities and compete with confidence and resilience . Not to be left behind , the Chairman of the Pakistan Cricket Board , Shaharyar Khan called up the team captain and players in Adelaide and spoke to them on speaker phone . " The PCB chief basically tried to motivate the players by telling them to give their best and play without any fear of defeat , " one board official said . " Obviously everyone is into the match and Shaharyar Khan told the players they just need to give their best against India as it was a big match , " the official added . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
