Shastri may be asked to stay on with team till World Cup The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Sep 11 , 2014 , 01.26PM IST Shastri has his media commitments and it will take some doing for BCCI authorities to keep him in the saddle. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : The Indian cricket board ( BCCI ) is set to request coaching director Ravi Shastri to stay on in charge till the World Cup in February-March , 2015. Duncan Fletcher , the under-fire coach , too is likely to hold on to his post unless the Zimbabwean himself decides to quit . Board authorities feel Shastri played a major role in the turnaround of the team in the One-dayers in England and his 'performance ' as the coaching director has been appreciated by every single player of the team. Shastri 's motivational and communication skills too have been appreciated and the board will try its best to ensure he stays on board till 2015 . " He took charge at a very short notice and made a huge difference. If he stays on , it will be a big boost for our team. We will discuss with him how to take it forward , " a source told TOI . Shastri has his media commitments and it will take some doing for BCCI authorities to keep him in the saddle. But the fact that Shastri has always responded to difficult situations makes them positive. " Let us see what he feels about it. If all goes well , he should be there with the team when we play in Australia and the World Cup , " the source added . Meanwhile , Shastri 's positive responses about Fletcher is set to work in the 67-year-old 's favour. " Fletcher is tremendous. He is technically very sound , is a solid character , is respected and a fatherly figure , " Shastri said. Even though board mandarins have n't got Shastri 's report , they feel the director is happy with Fletcher 's inputs during the series. " The members will discuss the report in the working committee and take a final call on the issue. We will also look into the interests of the team , " the source added . Interestingly , it can be noted that skipper MS Dhoni had said during the ODI series that Fletcher will stay on as the coach , a statement which had n't gone down too well with some board officials. But the ODI victories have made a significant difference and things are likely to work in the captain 's favour . The BCCI is also happy with the inputs of Bharath Arun , Sanjay Bangar and fielding coach Sridhar. " The details of it will be worked out over the course of the next few days. We will have to see about the contracts of Joe Dawes and Trevor Penney , who were sent on leave from the middle of the tour , " the source added . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
