Shikhar Dhawan deserves longer rope , says Dravid The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Jan 29 , 2015 , 10.25AM IST Indian opener Shikhar Dhawan has managed just 11 runs in three innings in the triseries so far. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : He may be in terrible form but Shikhar Dhawan will be pleased to know it 's not just skipper MS Dhoni who still believes in him . On Wednesday , speaking on the sidelines of a promotional event , legendary batsman Rahul Dravid too backed the offcolour opener , saying that Dhawan had " earned the right ( for us ) to be patient with him " . " His performance in One-day cricket over the last one year has been very good. We 're judging him on two-three failures and a tough tour of Australia. We need to be a bit more patient and back him , because he deserves that right. He has earned it with his performances , " Dravid said . 'The Wall ' felt that an in-form Dhawan will boost India 's chances in the final stages of the World Cup. " Hopefully , he 'll get a good run. A guy like him in form will be invaluable to India in the business end of the tournament , when the quarterfinals arrive. I just hope that playing a few more games , and just getting into the stride a bit more...playing a different opposition...will get him into the kind of form In dia needs him to be in at that time , " Dravid said . Dhawan has managed just 11 runs in three innings in the triseries so far. The former India skipper also felt that as long as India do n't lose an early wicket , Virat Kohli needed to bat at No. 3 . " Given the fact that India had a few injury issues , and Ravindra Jadeja was n't fit , meant that they felt there were inexperienced batsmen at No. 7. This is why Kohli was held back. I 'd like to see him in once 10-12 overs are done , because you want to give him time to get going. Maybe if they lose an early wicket , they might consider sending someone else in if they are n't confident about the depth of their batting , " Dravid said . Sounding positive about India 's prospects in the World Cup despite the team 's indifferent form , Dravid said Dhoni and Co would be helped by the uncharacteristically slow Aussie wickets in the tournament . " It 's a bit strange. The Australian wickets are very different this time than what they were when we last toured there in 2011. If the wickets stay slower and lower like they were in the Tests , then India will have an advantage. The spinners will come into the mix. India can afford to play two , or maybe three spinners , with Raina and Rohit bowling as well , " Dravid said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
