Six star performers of 2011 ICC World Cup The author has posted comments on this article Upam Buzarbaruah , TNN | Feb 17 , 2015 , 05.38PM IST MS Dhoni with his explosive batting brought home the World Cup , with nothing less than a six. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 World Cup 2011 was memorable not just because India broke tradition and won the tournament on home turf , but also because of some sterling performances by some master cricketers. So , here 's our list that includes our very own MS Dhoni , whose match-winning six can hardly be forgotten , ever . YUVRAJ SINGH VS AUSTRALIA , 57 OFF 65 Aussie skipper Ricky Ponting had identified him as the weakest in India 's bowling attack , but he walked away with two crucial wickets. And not only that , he topped that with a sterling knock that put India back into reckoning at a time when the whole batting line-up was crumbling to a predatory pace attack by the Aussies . MS DHONI VS SRI LANKA , 91 OFF 79 Team India had some pretty strong odds stacked up against them -no century in the World Cup final had ended in defeat and no host country had ever won the Cup. But Dhoni changed all that. He started slow , but then opened up to his brand of explosive batting to bring home the World Cup , with nothing less than a six . ANDREW STRAUSS VS INDIA , 158 OFF 145 The English batsman was imposing at the stumps , knocking virtually every delivery around the field. The fact that his 158 came off 13 balls less is a pointer to the finesse he displayed on field. His sweeps and drives took the edge off even the spinners. It was finally a Zaheer Khan bomb that ended his run spree . MAHELA JAYAWARDENE VS INDIA , 103 OFF 88 The final. Jayawardene played his best one-day innings by coolly dismantling India 's inspired attack. Though India remained in control throughout the match , he continued his stunning display during the batting Powerplay. His inspiring knock ended up in Sri Lanka setting an impressive target of 275 . SHAHID AFRIDI VS SRI LANKA , 4 FOR 34 The Pakistan spinner came on 18 overs into the match , which was almost a cinch for Sri Lanka till then. Chasing 278,Tillakaratne Dilshan was playing a steady game till Afridi tricked him into a square cut. Bowled ! He went on to scalp Thilan Samaraweera , Kumar Sangakkara and Angelo Mathews , subjecting Sri Lanka to a rare defeat on home turf . KEVIN O'BRIEN VS ENGLAND , 113 OFF 63 This powerful Irish batsman displayed clinical precision while hitting 63 balls to almost every corner of the field. And in doing so , he transformed the way group stage matches were looked at during the World Cup. He also made a strong case for retention of Associates in future Worlds Cups with his mindblowing ton -also the fastest in World Cup history . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
