Skipper Cook vows repeat show in fourth Test The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 1 , 2014 , 06.47AM IST England captain Alastair Cook smiles up into the sun as he stands to one-side during the presentations following the final day of the third Test against India at the Ageas Bowl in Southampton. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SOUTHAMPTON : Buoyed by his team 's emphatic 266-run win over India at the Ageas Bowl on Thursday , England captain Alastair Cook vowed not to let up the pressure and push for the lead at Old Trafford . " We were relentless and never let India off the hook. It takes a lot of skill and determination to do that. We did not let up. Now everyone knows what it is like , the challenge is to repeat it at Old Trafford and try and win the series , " said Cook at the post-match interaction with the media . " This summer we 've played good cricket for one or two sessions out of three. But here , while bowling , we managed to keep that pressure for the whole session. And with the bat we got greedy that set up the game. Scoreboard pressure told and we had as good a game as you could have , " Cook added , summing up his team 's show. The skip per was pleased with the fact that every player contributed to the victory. " We performed really well , to a man. The guys who were questioned really delivered. It 's great to see Bell score a big hundred . When you set the game up like we did you get ahead of the game and can dictate it , " Cook said . " Gary Ballance ran to collect a stump and I had forgotten that they did not know what it was like to win a Test match. The important thing is we back it up and take it on to Old Trafford , " added . Speaking about his own return to form , Cook said : " The weight has lifted. I felt I 'd turned the corner at Lord 's. That knock in the first innings meant a lot. It was a strange , but nice feeling. " Cook lauded Mooen Ali for his superb show with the ball in the second innings . " Moeen deserves full credit for his six-wicket haul. I have n't seen a bowler who has improved so much in such a short time , " Cook said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
