Sledgers to face match bans at ICC World Cup The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Feb 10 , 2015 , 11.45AM IST The crackdown may give Australia opening batsman David Warner some pause before charging into a verbal altercation given he has been found guilty of breaching the code of conduct twice in two months . Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : The International Cricket Council will crack down on excessive sledging between players at the World Cup , saying first offenders can expect heavier fines while repeat offenders face suspension from matches . ICC chief executive David Richardson also said players with already poor records of on-field behaviour could face immediate match bans if found guilty of a single breach of the ICC 's code of conduct during the Feb. 14 - March 29 tournament . " That issue has been addressed at all the pre-event team briefings , " Richardson told reporters in Melbourne on Tuesday . " I suppose it started a few months back already that the behaviour in some matches by some players was deemed to be unacceptable and not a good example to young fans watching the game . " I think there 's been something like 12-13 code of conduct charges laid in the last few months in bilateral series . " So the crackdown had already started. I think the teams are going to be told that the umpires intend to remains firm , that the penalties handed out by the match referees will be perhaps a little bit more serious or higher than before but that hopefully everyone will be treated equally and fairly . " For a first offence , you 'll likely end up with a fine which no players likes , handing back most of his match fee . " But certainly a repeat offence , not only in this tournament but some players already sitting with offences behind their name , will be punished with a suspension. " The crackdown may give Australia opening batsman David Warner some pause before charging into a verbal altercation given he has been found guilty of breaching the code of conduct twice in two months . India batsmen Shikhar Dhawan and Virat Kohli were also fined for conduct breaches in December during the occasionally ill-tempered test series with Australia . Pundits have suggested a soccer-style yellow and red card system to better stamp out poor on-field behaviour but Richardson said cricket would continue to rely on post-match reviews with on-field umpires and off-field referees to analyse incidents and lay charges where necessary . " That idea has been debated at a number of previous cricket committee meetings that I 've attended and probably will be debated again , " he said . " We do n't necessarily want to follow the way that football goes. A lot of these decisions are taken after a measured response by match officials reviewing footage of the match afterwards . " That obviously can not happen when you are brandishing a red or a yellow card on the spur of the moment. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
