Some action is better than nothing : Virat Kohli The author has posted comments on this article Pratik Bandyopadhyay , TNN | Nov 2 , 2014 , 11.04AM IST Team India 's director of cricket Ravi Shastri with captain Virat Kohli during a training session at Barabati Stadium in Cuttack. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CUTTACK : Successful people are never satisfied. Virat Kohli , who won the World Cup in the very first edition he played in , wants to win again in his second essay. Hearing Kohli speak on Saturday , one got the feeling that mentally he is already in Australia , getting ready to take on the world . The Indian captain for this series against Sri Lanka admitted that this series will give the fringe players the chance to cement their places for the World Cup . Talking about the raw look of the Indian pace attack which will be without Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Mohammad Shami , India 's new-ball bowlers for the last two years , Kohli said it opens the window for the others . " Bhuvi and Shami are invaluable. But this is an opportunity for somebody like ( Varun ) Aaron , " he said. " Same for ( Wriddhiman ) Saha. Nobody can replace ( MS ) Dhoni but Saha is also a very good player. " Kohli said he wants to win the Test series in Australia , which would help during the World Cup. " I 'm looking forward to going to Australia and winning so that my confidence is high going into the World Cup , " he remarked . India 's top batsman is so serious about the Cup preparations that when asked if five more ODIs in Indian conditions would really help , he replied , " We had to play two more ODIs against the West Indies anyway . So we are actually playing just three more ODIs now. And since Australian conditions ca n't be reproduced here , I think this is good practice. It 's better than nothing. " Aware of the apprehensions people have about Team India 's young guns succeeding in alien conditions of Australia and New Zealand , Kohli said : " We had a very young team in 2002 too , but it was one of our best World Cup performances. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
