World Cup 2015 : De Villiers smashes 162 to drive South Africa to 408/5 The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Feb 27 , 2015 , 01.11PM IST South Africa 's captain AB de Villiers celebrates reaching his century during the Cricket World Cup match against West Indies at the SCG. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : AB de Villiers flayed West Indies with a brilliant unbeaten 162 from just 66 balls to drive South Africa to an imposing 408 for five in their World Cup Pool B clash on Friday . Scorecard The Proteas skipper utilized his full repertoire of strokes in an awesome display of batting , peppering the boundaries at a sun-bathed Sydney Cricket Ground with eight sixes and 17 fours in a 104-minute innings that will live long in the memory . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 He shared stands of 134 runs with Rilee Rossouw ( 61 ) , another of 48 with David Miller ( 20 ) and a third of 80 with Farhaan Behardien ( 10 ) to turn around his country 's innings after West Indies had made a promising start to the match . By the end of his knock , the crowd were on their feet chanting " AB ! , AB ! , AB ! " as the 31-year-old , who reached his century with a six from the 52nd ball he faced , accelerated towards the finishing line . His 64-ball 150 is also the fastest in one-day international history . South Africa were desperate to kickstart their campaign after their 130-run defeat to India and De Villiers had given them every chance of doing so by the time he walked of the field . West Indies , charged with confidence after their defeat of Zimbabwe on Tuesday , had initially looked a completely different side to the rabble that lost their tournament opener to Ireland . Skipper Jason Holder and to a lesser extent Jerome Taylor got menacing bounce off the wicket with the new ball and opener Quinton de Kock ( 12 ) departed in the sixth over . Hashim Amla ( 65 ) and Faf du Plessis ( 62 ) then put together a second wicket partnership of 127 but the disciplined West Indies kept up the pressure . Amla smashed a huge six to bring up his half century off 75 balls , though , and Du Plessis almost matched the feat for his fifty only for the ball to fall just short of the boundary rope . West Indies desperately needed a breakthrough and it fell to Chris Gayle , whose innings of 215 fired the Zimbabwe victory , to provide it in the 30th over . Du Plessis was brilliantly caught behind by Denesh Ramdin off an edge and two balls later Amla was trapped lbw , Gayle celebrating reducing the South Africans to 146-3 with a dance down the wicket . That brought Rossouw and De Villiers to the middle and they wasted no time in taking the game to their opponents , rattling up a fifty partnership in just over half an hour from 39 balls . Rossouw , brought into the side in place of JP Duminy , also brought up his half century with a flourish , slapping a rising delivery into the grandstand for a six . De Villiers took one fewer delivery than Roussow to reach his fifty in 30 balls but reached the milestone in more punishing style with a six , a four and another four in successive deliveries off Sulieman Benn . It was only a taster of what was to come . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
