South Africa ready to journey into the 'unknown ' , says Miller The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 22 , 2015 , 12.56PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : South Africa batsman David Miller believes his side are ready for a journey into the " unknown " when they face New Zealand in a World Cup semifinal in Auckland on Tuesday . Since being allowed into cricket 's showpiece event in 1992 ahead of the collapse of apartheid , South Africa have failed to get past the semifinal stage on three occasions and are still awaiting a maiden World Cup final appearance . New Zealand 's record is even worse , with the Black Caps having lost all six of their previous World Cup semifinals . Yet it is the Proteas who carry the unwanted tag of 'chokers ' , a label they went some way to removing with a thumping nine-wicket win over Sri Lanka in the quarterfinals -- South Africa 's first victory in the knockout phase of any World Cup . " It 's something that 's the unknown , " said Miller on Sunday of the prospect of playing either Australia or defending champions India , who meet in the second semi in Sydney on Thursday , in the March 29 final at the Melbourne Cricket Ground " It 's a very exciting time. In eight days we could be world champions but it 's just one step at a time , take things slowly as they come , " Miller added . Tuesday 's semifinal takes place at Eden Park . Better known as a rugby venue , the ground 's short straight boundaries were expected to lead to a glut of fours and sixes during the World Cup . However , Eden Park has staged two low-scoring thrillers during the tournament -- New Zealand 's one-wicket win over fellow co-hosts Australia and Pakistan 's 29-run defeat of South Africa . Nevertheless , the big-hitting Miller is aiming to cash in any way he can . " Hopefully , I can mishit a few straight sixes , " he said. " That 's just the way the field is and it 's cool to be playing on it. " The 25-year-old Miller , appearing in his first World Cup , started the tournament with a career-best 138 not out in a win over Zimbabwe in Hamilton . The left-hander has made two subsequent 40s , but he fell for a duck at Eden Park during the loss to Pakistan in pool play . However , Miller said he hoped his previous experience of Eden Park would prove beneficial . " It 's my first time in New Zealand so it 's good to have already played a game here and just to get the feel of the ground itself , the dimensions of the field , " he said . " It 's just something to get used to and obviously the feel of the crowd. It 's going to be huge on Tuesday. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
