Sri Lanka overpower Pakistan to win ODI series The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Aug 30 , 2014 , 04.11PM IST Sri Lanka 's Thisara Perera appeals for successful wicket for Pakistan 's Wahab Riaz ( not pictured ) during the final ODI in Dambulla. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 DAMBULLA ( Sri Lanka ) : Seamer Thisara Perera claimed 4-34 and Tillakartane Dilshan hit an unbeaten 50 as Sri Lanka trounced Pakistan by seven wickets in the final one-dayer on Saturday to clinch the series 2-1 . Dhammika Prasad chipped in with two wickets as the hosts bowled Pakistan out for 102 and then surpassed the Duckworth-Lewis target of 101 in the 19th over of a one-sided game in Dambulla . An hour-long rain interruption after Pakistan had slumped to 81-8 in the 26th over of the first session forced the umpires to reduce the game to 48-overs-a-side . Sri Lanka galloped home in style to build on the 2-0 sweep in the preceding Test series and left Pakistan searching for answers ahead of the World Cup less than six months away . Opener Upul Tharanga and Kumar Sangakkara fell cheaply before Mahela Jayawardene ( 26 ) and Dilshan put on a 41-run stand for the third wicket . Dilshan cut Shahid Afridi to the fence to bring up his half-century and also seal his team 's easy win . Fawad Alam top-scored for Pakistan with an unbeaten 38 , but eight batsmen failed to reach double figures as the tourists crumbled in 32.1 overs after electing to bat on the slow wicket . It was Pakistan 's lowest one-day total on Sri Lankan soil , falling below the 116 they made against New Zealand at the same venue in 2003 . Pakistan never recovered after losing opener Sharjeel Khan in the third over , caught at second slip off Prasad . Prasad , who replaced the off-form Nuwan Kulasekara , then had the other opener , Ahmed Shehzad , caught at mid-on to make it 14-2 . The third wicket fell at the same total when Lasith Malinga had Mohammad Hafeez leg-before for one as the TV umpire upheld the decision following a review by the batsman . It soon became 55-5 by the 19th over when skipper Misbah-ul-Haq was run out for 18 by a direct throw from Dilshan and Umar Akmal holed out off Perera for seven . Pakistan lost the next three wickets in the space of 11 deliveries , including the important one of big-hitter Afridi who skied a catch to the point fence off Seekkuge Prasanna . The low total ruined any hopes Pakistan had of snatching a dramatic win with the help of their spin spearhead Saeed Ajmal , who was back after missing the previous two matches to have his bowling action tested . Ajmal had flown to Brisbane , Australia , for the tests after his action was reported by the umpires during the Test series. He is allowed to play on until the results of the tests are made known . Ajmal picked up the wicket of Jayawardene , caught in the slips , but Sri Lanka were only one run away from victory at that stage . The World Cup is to be played in Australia and New Zealand in February-March next year . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
