Virat Kohli-led Team India Leaves for Australia Tour Virat Kohli-led Team India Leaves for Australia Tour Virat Kohli will lead India in the first of the four-match Test series , commencing on December 4 in Brisbane Last updated on Saturday , 22 November , 2014 13 : 04 IST Total Shares File photo of Virat Kohli and Bhuvneshwar Kumar . © AFP Mumbai : An 18-member Indian team , led by Virat Kohli on Saturday left for Australia to play in the four-match Test series starting at Brisbane from December 4. ( Australia tour will help India before World Cup : Laxman ) Skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni will miss the first Test due to a right thumb injury and he is expected the join side from the second Test onwards. ( Team India should do a PM Modi in Aus : Gavaskar ) Naman Ojha is the reserve wicketkeeper for the first Test and he will return home once Dhoni joins the team for the second Test. ( India not front-runners to win World Cup 2015 : Fleming ) The team left in the wee hours on Saturday. ( Kohli confirms relationship with Anushka ) The Australia tour commences on November 24 with a two-day practice game in Adelaide against Cricket Australia XI. The visitors will then play one more two-day warm-up game against Cricket Australia Invitational XI ( November 28-29 ) in Adelaide before the four-match Test series starts on December 4 at Brisbane . The other Tests are to be played at Adelaide ( December 12-16 ) , Melbourne ( December 26-30 ) and Sydney ( January 3-7 ) . The Test series will be followed by a tri-nation series comprising hosts Australia , India and England from January 16 to February 1 . The Squad : Mahendra Singh Dhoni ( C ) , Virat Kohli , Shikhar Dhawan , Murali Vijay , Lokesh Rahul , Cheteshwar Pujara , Ajinkya Rahane , Rohit Sharma , Suresh Raina , Wriddhiman Saha , Naman Ojha , Ravichandran Ashwin , Karn Sharma , Ravindra Jadeja , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Mohammad Shami , Ishant Sharma , Umesh Yadav , Varun Aaron . Story first published on : Saturday , 22 November 2014 11 : 51 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
