Srinivasan blocks Pawar , bags all six East Zone votes The author has posted comments on this article It was believed that N Srinivasan had the firm backing of four associations from East : Orissa , Assam , Tripura and Jharkhand. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Indian cricket board president-in-exile and ICC chief N Srinivasan has done it again. He has managed to secure the assurance of all six associations of East Zone , who alone can nominate and second a candidate in the long-delayed BCCI elections in this round . In other words , any possibility of a challenger emerging at the last minute - read Sharad Pawar or somebody from East Zone itself - has been squashed . If the Board 's Annual General Meeting does take place on December 17 , and the Supreme Court does not spring any surprises during the Mudgal committee hearing on November 24 , Srinivasan will not only expect to contest for the president 's post but to also get elected unanimously . Till now , it was believed that Srinivasan had the firm backing of four associations from East : Orissa , Assam , Tripura and Jharkhand. The other two votes , Cricket Association of Bengal ( CAB ) and the National Cricket Club ( NCC ) , held by former BCCI and ICC chief Jagmohan Dalmiya were seen as non-committal. But even that has changed after Dalmiya took Union Cabinet minister and Delhi District Cricket Association boss Arun Jaitley 's 'guidance ' on the matter . On Tuesday , when the BCCI held its emergency working committee meeting in Chennai to officially postpone the AGM , it is learnt that Dalmiya confirmed his support for the Chennai-based boss of Indian cricket. " The signatures are a mere formality once the SC hearing is over , " informed a BCCI official in the know of developments . While Srinivasan 's staunch supporters maintain that Dalmiya was always behind Srinivasan , the official confirmation of this development is likely to come as a major blow for the handful of people within the BCCI who are opposed to Srinivasan . Firstly , it would mean that Pawar - who has been extremely active in the BCCI affairs once again and was , according to sources , working out on the possibilities of contesting the election - will find that his road ahead has been blocked . Mumbai and Vidarbha Cricket Association to a large extent , along with Maharashta , Saurashtra and Madhya Pradesh Cricket Association are expected to face a heavy backlash as and when Srinivasan returns to the BCCI chief 's chair . Led by Pawar and Nagpur based lawyer Shashank Manohar , these five associations had openly revolted against Srinivasan in the backdrop of the betting and spot-fixing scandal. Citing conflict of-interest as the main issue , these associations had demanded Srinivasan 's immediate resignation from the president 's post until a proxy-litigation - through a PIL filed by Cricket Association of Bihar 's Aditya Verma - was heard by the Supreme Court . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
