Srinivasan continues to be in race for BCCI post The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Feb 12 , 2015 , 11.41AM IST While there was speculation on the restructuring of CSK , the timing of the announcement makes it clear that Srinivasan is gearing up for a shot at the coveted BCCI post. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : It 's a windfall for the shareholders of India Cements , as they will get shares of the most successful Indian Premier League ( IPL ) team - Chennai Super Kings - free . Reading out a statement after a board meeting , N Srinivasan , vice-chairman and managing director of India Cements ( and BCCI president ) , said , " It was approved by the board that ultimately the ownership of the franchisee ( CSK ) will go to the share holders of India Cements. " He did not elaborate further . India Cements shareholders will now get shares of Chennai Super Kings Cricket , in the ratio of their investment in India Cements. The shares will eventually be listed , it is learnt . For example , if a shareholder owns 1 % of India Cements , he will get to own the same percentage of shares of CSK. By the same measure , the promoters of India Cements , Srinivasan and his family , will own 28.23 % of CSK-as much as they hold in India Cements . A rider in the Supreme Court judgment had made it difficult for Srinivasan to become BCCI president again , unless he relinquished control of CSK. The apex court directed BCCI to hold elections in six weeks ( scheduled for March 2 ) " subject to the condition that no one who has any commercial interest in BCCI events shall be eligible for contesting the elections for any post whatsoever " . While there was speculation on the restructuring of CSK , the timing of the announcement makes it clear that Srinivasan is gearing up for a shot at the coveted BCCI post . Wednesday 's board meeting outcome has sent a clear signal that Srinivasan , who has come clean on accusations of financial irregularities and interference in the probe into matchfixing , is just one step away from contesting the BCCI polls . Among the options Srinivasan has is a partial sale of his equity in CSK and appointment of an independent board , comprising people of impeccable credibility , to run the affairs of the company , thereby distancing himself from CSK 's business as per the court 's directive . India Cements had embarked upon restructuring CSK on September 26 last year when it decided to spin it off into a wholly-owned subsidiary. With the statutory process completed , CSK has now become a separate legal entity . CSK will also have to defend itself before the three-member committee constituted by the Supreme Court in the IPL betting scandal involving owners of Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals. Former Chief Justice of India R M Lodha will head the committee that includes former Supreme Court judges Ashok Bhan and R V Raveendran . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
