India vs Cricket Australia XI , Highlights : Four Fifties Light Up India 's Drawn Tour Match India vs Cricket Australia XI , Highlights : Four Fifties Light Up India 's Drawn Tour Match Murali Vijay , Cheteshwar Pujara , Virat Kohli and Wriddhiman Saha slap half-centuries as India finish practice match on 363/8 against Cricket Australia 's 219 . Last updated on Tuesday , 25 November , 2014 12 : 20 IST Total Shares In a show of strength , Indian batsmen helped themselves to fine fifties as the tourists got valuable practice in the middle against Cricket Australia XI. Following are the highlights from Day 2 of the drawn tour match . A file photo of Cheteshwar Pujara who hit a fifty against Cricket Australia on Day 2 of the India 's first tour match Down Under . © AP Replying to Cricket Australia XI 's 219 , India were 55 for the loss of Shikhar Dhawan 's wicket at stumps on Monday. Murali Vijay , Cheteshwar Pujara , Virat Kohli and Wridddhiman Saha each scored a fifty to guide India to 363/8 and a drawn match. Following are the highlights from Tuesday 's play . * End of match ! India finish the practice game on 363/8. With as many as four fifties in the innings , this has been a good show of strength by the visitors although the task may be a lot harder against the highly-skilled national team . * Out ! Ashwin falls , India now eight men down. Remember , 11 batsman can bat here . * Fifty for Saha ! Another half century from yet another Indian batsman here . * Out ! Kohli falls after a well-made 60. It was a patient knock which took him 114 deliveries to construct. India 267/7 . * News flash : South Australia batsman Phil Hughes struck on the head by a bouncer during a Sheffield Game. He is believed to be in a serious condition. ( Read report here ) * Out ! Raina falls to Jonte Pattison 's spin. He was looking good to play the long knock but misses his half century by six runs. Wriddhiman Saha next up. India 233/6 . * Fifty for Kohli ! India captain has played a mature knock against both pace and spin today. Not looking to attack blindly , he has hit seven fours in his innings and has a determined aura around him all day . * India go past Cricket Australia 's 1st innings score with considerable ease. Kohli and Raina getting valuable practice here . * Raina doing bulk of the batting and is looking good while doing it. Since he replaced Rohit , the left-handed batsman has helped himself to four fours and a six as well. He is batting on 28 off 36. India 210/5 . * Captain Virat Kohli has slammed five boundaries in his innings of 65-ball 36. He is in the middle with Suresh Raina . * Out ! Rohit Sharma is removed by pacer Josh Lalor for 23 , at the stroke of lunch. Despite hitting four shots to the boundary and looking set for more , Rohit is trapped LBW. India 178/5 * Out ! Ajinkya Rahane fails and is removed on 1 by 16-year-old spinner Sam Grimwade. He looked to drive away from the body but it did not come out as planned for the Mumbai batsman. India 131/4 . * Vijay and Pujara have retired which means Virat and Rahane will get to bat now . * Both Murali Vijay and Cheteshwar Pujara hit fifties to propel India 's innings. A good start to Tuesday morning for the visitors . ---- On Monday , fast bowler Varun Aaron was impressive with three-wicket haul. Aaron ( 3/72 ) , Bhuvneshwar Kumar ( 2/32 ) and Mohammed Shami ( 2/52 ) restricted the home team to 219 all out in 71.5 overs. Spinners Karn Sharma and Ravichandran Ashwin were also among wickets with 2/30 and 1/22 , respectively . India will aim to bat as much as possible to adjust to conditions before the first Test in Brisbane from December 4. The Indians have not played Test cricket in a long time , their last series being a 5-match ODI contest with Sri Lanka at home. Kohli 's men will play one more two-day game ahead of the Gabba game . Story first published on : Monday , 24 November 2014 23 : 33 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
