Srinivasan group in tight corner The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Nov 25 , 2014 , 11.31AM IST The Srinivasan group was n't expecting that the conflict of interest line would be taken up so vociferously. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : The stinging Supreme Court observations on Monday were n't something that N Srinivasan and his group were expecting. There was a sense of anticipation in the morning that he would be cleared on Monday so that he can resume office , but by the end of the day , clouds of doubt had gathered on the horizon . The court has left enough hints during its proceedings that the president-in-exile might have to choose between his post as the BCCI boss or Chennai Super Kings playing the IPL , which TOI effectively means that he is in a no-win situation . The Srinivasan group was n't expecting that the conflict of interest line would be taken up so vociferously , hoping that the Supreme Court would stick to the findings of the Mudgal committee report , which the BCCI lawyers termed as " gospel truth " . But with the issue being raked up despite the Bombay high court 's judgement that there was no conflict of interest in Srinivasan 's role as BCCI president and managing director of India Cements , it has definitely caught the ruling group on the wrong foot . The BCCI lawyers have already argued that Srinivasan did n't have any role in the decisions regarding Gurunath Meiyappan and CSK since the spot-fixing scandal broke out , but the Supreme Court has n't given much importance to it . There might be a situation on Tuesday when the BCCI lawyers might plead for a Court-appointed committee to take a final call on CSK. " If the Supreme Court feels that a committee should take a call on CSK and Rajasthan Royals , then so be it. We hope that Srinivasan would be allowed to continue as the president , " a BCCI member said . It 's not yet clear if it comes down to choosing between CSK playing the IPL and the BCCI president 's post , which one would Srinivasan choose . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
