Srinivasan hails World Cup 2015 as most popular ever The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 30 , 2015 , 11.27AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 DUBAI : Hailing the just-concluded World Cup as the most popular in cricket 's history , ICC chairman N Srinivasan on Monday said the event 's success has proved that the ODI format is in good health . Australia beat New Zealand by seven wickets in the summit clash yesterday in front of over 93,000 spectators at the iconic Melbourne Cricket Ground . Mr Srinivasan said the ICC was delighted with the manner in which the game 's pinnacle 50-over event was hosted and delivered . " On behalf of the ICC , I would like to firstly congratulate Australia on its fifth ICC Cricket World Cup win. Australia displayed great tenacity , skill levels and consistency throughout the tournament and are worthy winners , " Srinivasan said in a statement . " It was a wonderful event with many thrilling highs and magic moments , which will live long in the memory. Australia has set a new benchmark for limited overs cricket and our congratulations to them , and indeed all of the competing teams , which produced excellent cricket over the past seven weeks and thoroughly entertained the followers of the game worldwide , " he added . Srinivasan praised co-hosts Australia and New Zealand for putting up a grand show . " It is not an easy task hosting an event of this scale and I would like to extend my special thanks to the ICC staff as well as Local Organising Committee Chairman Ralph Waters , CEO John Harnden , Head of New Zealand Therese Walsh and the rest of the team who worked extremely hard across both host countries over the last three years to ensure the delivery of a truly world-class tournament . " I would also like to pay tribute to Cricket Australia and New Zealand Cricket for their support in the build-up to , and during the event , " Srinivasan said . Besides , the ICC chief lauded the fans , who thronged the venues , ensuring good crowds through the tournament . " The ICC had strived to deliver a fan-friendly spectacle , and it has achieved its target. Over one million spectators have passed through the turnstiles over the course of the last seven weeks and our thanks to them and , indeed , to all followers of the game globally for the support they have given the competing sides , " he said . Srinivasan also commended the work done by match officials and ground curators . " Congratulations to our Emirates Elite Panel of ICC Umpires and Match Referees , who have once again displayed a high level of officiating throughout the competition. The curators and ground-staff who produced quality pitches across all 14 also deserve special mention . " Finally , a special word of thanks to the unsung heroes of ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 - the team of volunteers in each of the cities whose assistance , courtesy and hospitality added enormously to the feel-good factor around the event , " he said . " As we reflect on the success of ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , it has reinforced 50-over cricket as a hugely exhilarating format of the game , which attracts a large global following. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
