Srinivasan 's men rough up journalists The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Jan 24 , 2015 , 10.25AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHIKKAMAGALURU : The security staff of former BCCI president N Srinivasan allegedly roughed up mediapersons in Sringeri on Friday when they tried to get his reaction on the Supreme Court judgment which debarred him from contesting the cricket body 's election. In the melee , a Times Now reporter suffered injuries on her head. Srinivasan was in Sringeri for a religious ceremony at the mutt. He stayed at a guesthouse near the Rajagopura , the mutt entrance . On Friday , when the India Cements chief walked out of the mutt after offering prayers , several TV and print media reporters rushed to him for his reactions on the apex court 's verdict. Srinivasan refused to reply and walked towards his vehicle . His staff then roughed up journalists and allegedly assaulted a couple of them. Nisha , a Times Now reporter , got hurt in the ensuing melee . Police allowed Srinivasan to move out of the place and pacified the agitated reporters. When contacted , Chikkamagluru SP R Chetan told TOI that Srinivasan was reluctant to reply to reporters ' questions and when his security staff tried to keep reporters at bay , one of them pushed at them . The annoyed staff forcibly pushed aside all mediapersons who had surrounded Srinivasan. In the melee , a woman reporter fell down and a police inspector rescued her. No complaint has been filed , the SP added. Srinivasan reportedly visits the mutt once every two years . Dalmiya keeps all guessing CAB president Jagmohan Dalmiya , who has emerged as the top choice of N Srinivasan group for the BCCI president 's post , on Friday chose to keep everyone guessing about his candidature. " It 's time to start a new chapter in Indian cricket and we have to respect the Supreme Court order , " Dalmiya said at the Eden Gardens on Friday . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
