Srinivasan will not run for BCCI chief , SC told The author has posted comments on this article Dhananjay Mahapatra , TNN | Feb 24 , 2015 , 08.08AM IST A petition by Cricket Association of Bihar ( CAB ) sought initiation of contempt proceedings against Srinivasan for violating the January 22 judgment and chairing recent BCCI meetings to fix the schedule for the annual general meeting on March 2. ( PTI photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : BCCI chief-in-exile N Srinivasan told the Supreme Court on Monday through his counsel that he would not seek re-election as board president and indicated that he may keep away from the top post till the March 2 election , given his " legally vulnerable " position after the court 's January 22 judgment . In that judgment , the SC had quashed an amendment to a BCCI rule permitting Srinivasan to own an IPL team , Chennai Super Kings . It had also set up a three-member committee comprising former apex court judges to determine the punishment for the CSK owner. CSK official and Srinivasan 's son-in-law Gurunath Meiyappan was found guilty of betting during IPL 2013 by the court-appointed Justice Mudgal panel . A petition by Cricket Association of Bihar ( CAB ) sought initiation of contempt proceedings against Srinivasan for violating the January 22 judgment and chairing recent BCCI meetings to fix the schedule for the annual general meeting on March 2. A bench of Justices T S Thakur and F M I Kalifulla asked N Srinivasan 's counsel Kapil Sibal how his client could continue as BCCI president despite the court finding him mired in conflict of interest . " The judgment does not hold him guilty of interfering in the investigations. But the judgment bars him from contesting elections because of conflict of interest. This makes him vulnerable. He should not preside ( over BCCI meetings ) . We should not sound as if we are going after him. But since there is a finding of conflict of interest against him , his position is very vulnerable. It is not a very happy situation , " the bench said. Sibal said , " I admit legally his position is very vulnerable. But there are a host of people who have confidence in him. His love for cricket and his commitment to do good for cricket is unquestionable. " The bench said , " When you know your position is vulnerable , why did you preside over the meetings ? He is not eligible to contest. Then , how can he continue to hold the office now ? You may have done great service to the game of cricket but once there is a judgment from the Supreme Court , you should not preside over BCCI meetings. We will issue notice on the contempt petition. You file a reply. " Finding the writing on the wall , Sibal salvaged a few more days for Srinivasan. He requested the court not to issue notice on the contempt petition and assured that he would advise his client to do what is legally correct. The bench accepted his assurance and adjourned the hearing till Friday . Appearing for CAB , counsel Nalini Chidambaram told the court that the January 22 judgment had found Srinivasan mired in conflict of interest as president of BCCI and owner of CSK. She also said the court had told him not to contest till the three-judge committee set up by the court decided the quantum of punishment for owners of CSK and Rajasthan Royals . The court had ordered BCCI to conduct the elections within six weeks from January 22 and requested the three-judge committee to decide in six months the punishment for those put in the dock by Justice Mudgal committee. It had said Srinivasan would not be allowed to contest till his conflict of interest was erased or the committee decided the punishment , whichever was later . Srini could now name consensus candidate for board 's top post . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
