Starc : Our plan of fast yorker for McCullum worked The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 30 , 2015 , 09.05AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Not for once did Australia budge. As the World Cup reached the business end , they stuck to the five-pacer theory and that 's what won them the tournament in the end . " It 's the pacers who have won us the World Cup. They have been outstanding through the tournament and that 's why we are here , " Australian captain Michael Clarke said . It was quite fitting that his spearhead Mitchell Starc won the Player of the Tournament award while James Faulkner walked away with the Player of the Final award . The Aussie pace attack with three left-armers - Starc , Faulkner , Mitchell Johnson - and Josh Hazelwood and Shane Watson had all the variation that 's needed . While Starc was lethal both with the old and new ball , Johnson worked up great pace and got the wickets when required. Faulkner , fighting injuries , was superb with his yorkers and back-of-the-hand slower balls while Hazelwood was extremely steady . Watson , too , chipped in with his experience when required and Australia were unstoppable in the knockouts . " I think every bowler has been fantastic. Even Mitch Marsh , who played in the initial games , took five for us in the first and missed out on the back end. To watch Jimmy take three in the semis and in the final was great. The whole bowling unit itself was awesome , " Starc said . The Aussie attack hunted in a pack and Starc spoke about how the bowlers complemented each other throughout the tournament. " We 've got guys who do things differently in the 15 - swing , pace or variations - we had it all. We had covered all bases with our bowling attack , " Starc said . The pacers showed in the semifinals that they do n't feel intimidated even when they are taken for runs early on. They bounced back brilliantly after Shikhar Dhawan and Rohit Sharma had given India a great start . In the final on Sunday , Australia needed to get the wicket of Brendon McCullum early and Starc provided that . " It was bit of a planning game with bowling coach Craig McDermott about just bowling a fast yorker to him first up , and I 'm not sure how that first one missed and third one hit. It 's just nice to see that plan come off , " Starc said . If Starc did the early damage , it was the turn of Faulkner to come to the party at a time when New Zealand were threatening to take charge . At 150-3 in 35 overs with two well-set batsmen in , the Kiwis looked good for a total of close to 270. But it was the clever variations of Faulkner , his back of the hand slower balls , which did the Kiwis in . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
