Phillip Hughes ' Funeral on December 3 , First Test Between Australia and India Postponed Phillip Hughes ' Funeral on December 3 , First Test Between Australia and India Postponed While no new date for the first Test has been set , Cricket Australia said Phillip Hughes funeral will be held in his home town of Macksville , between Brisbane and Sydney , on December 3 . Last updated on Saturday , 29 November , 2014 14 : 30 IST Total Shares Flowers and bats laid out outside the Sydney Cricket Ground in honour of Phillip Hughes © AFP Sydney : The first Test match between Australia and India , which was due to start on Thursday ( December 4 ) , has been postponed following the death of batsman Phillip Hughes , Cricket Australia ( CA ) said on Saturday . CA said players will attend the funeral of Hughes , who died after being hit by a ball in a domestic match earlier this week , on Wednesday and that the Brisbane Test would not start the following day as previously scheduled . " These are extraordinary circumstances and we simply could n't or would n't expect our players to be emotionally ready to start a Test match the day after farewelling one of their teammates , " CA chief executive James Sutherland said. ( Hughes ' death brings old foes India , Australia closer ) " Their welfare is our absolute priority. They are grieving and to expect that they could play a high-pressured , five-day Test match the following day is out of the question. " Sutherland said CA appreciated the " incredible understanding and support " of the Board of Control for Cricket in India . " It has been nothing short of outstanding during these difficult times , " he said. ( Indian Players Wear Black Armbands , Train Indoors | Hughes Was Like a Brother to Mumbai Indians : Harbhajan ) Sutherland asked the cricket community for patience as CA works through a range of scenarios " in full consultation with the players , the Indian Board , the ICC and our broadcasters . " We hope to resolve all matters in the next few days and will let cricket fans and the game 's many important stakeholders know as a priority , " he said. ( Australia Retire Hughes ' ODI Number ) Ticket sales for the Brisbane Test have been suspended . Hughes , 25 , died on Thursday after being knocked unconscious by a ball in a domestic Sheffield Shield game in Sydney this week , plunging the cricket world into mourning . Australian cricket captain Michael Clarke said Saturday the team were in deep pain at his death . Story first published on : Saturday , 29 November 2014 12 : 47 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
