Steven Smith , Virat Kohli - new captains breaking records The author has posted comments on this article AP | Jan 10 , 2015 , 03.24PM IST Smith was named man of the series after an aggregate of 769 runs. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : India may have hung on to claim a draw against Australia at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday , limiting the series defeat to 2-0 , but the four-Test series will be remembered more for the performances of opposing young captains Virat Kohli of India and Australia 's Steve Smith . READ ALSO : I hate losing and that 's the bottomline , says Kohli Kohli scored four tons in the series , an effort matched by Australia 's stand-in skipper Steve Smith , who is the heir apparent to the injured Michael Clarke as permanent captain , and as young leaders they may be establishing a longstanding rivalry . Smith was named man of the series after an aggregate of 769 runs - with four hundreds and two half-centuries - which surpassed Don Bradman 's record of 715 runs in five Tests in 1947-48 as the most runs in an Australia-India series . The 25-year-old 's 117 in the fourth Test also matched the feats of Bradman ( vs South Africa in 1931-32 ) and South Africa great Jacques Kallis ( vs West Indies in 2003-04 ) in scoring four hundreds in four consecutive Tests of a series . " It 's been a pretty special summer for me personally , with some of the results that I 've got , " Smith said after his latest hundred. " I 've felt good throughout the whole series. I 'm really happy with where my form is at and my approach to batting at the moment. " Kohli celebrates reaching his century in the 4th Test at the Sydney Cricket Ground. ( Reuters Photo ) The 26-year-old Kohli marked his elevation to India 's captaincy by smashing his fourth century of the series in Sydney . Kohli , who was appointed captain when Mahendra Singh Dhoni suddenly retired after the third Test , produced an unbeaten 140 at the SCG to go with his twin centuries in the first Test at Adelaide and his highest score of 169 in Melbourne 's third Test . The 26-year-old Kohli was a target of both verbal barbs on the field and from parochial home crowds around the country , but rose to the occasion by scoring 685 runs for the series to pass Rahul Dravid 's record of 617 runs in a series ( 2003-04 ) for an Indian batsman in Australia . " To have the whole Australian crowd and 11 players who want to irritate me and get me out has been challenging but it has been enjoyable , " said Kohli. " We respect the way they play and both teams know this was a strong fight and enjoyed it equally . " It has brought out the best in me. This is certainly the best Test series that I have had so far. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
