Steyn confident World Cup luck will turn The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 6 , 2015 , 01.10PM IST Dale Steyn speaks to media before he attends the South Africa team training session ahead of their 2015 World Cup match against Pakistan at Eden Park in Auckland. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : South African spearhead Dale Steyn said Friday he believed a good personal return in a World Cup match was just around the corner . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The Proteas will head into Saturday 's pool clash against Pakistan in Auckland with Steyn , widely regarded as the world 's best fast bowler , having taken just five wickets in four matches at the tournament . Steyn , 31 , has been overshadowed by Morne Morkel ( nine wickets ) , leg-spinner Imran Tahir ( nine ) and Kyle Abbott ( six in two matches ) in South Africa 's three wins in four Pool B games . South Africa will , however , still look to Steyn to exploit Pakistan 's top-order frailties at Eden Park . And Steyn said he was not too far off his best form " I do n't think I 've bowled too badly. I think against Zimbabwe I actually wanted to bowl quite quick and run in and try to knock them over , " said Steyn of a match in which he had figures of one for 64 in nine overs . " I just ignored that ( basic ) instinct , and just wanted to run in and blast them where it did n't work. After that I think I got better and better . " I have n't taken the wickets that I want to take , but that 's the World Cup. In a World Cup you do n't have anywhere to hide. " " There are only ten wickets to take , and when Imran takes five or Abbott takes four , there is not much for the other bowlers to take . " So you have to do what you have to do in order for your team to win. I 'm happy with that. I feel if we make our way all the way to the final , I 'm due to have a good game somewhere in there. " Asked how will he handle bowling to South Africa captain and dynamic batsman AB de Villiers , Steyn jokingly said : " I 'd trip him on his way out of the hotel tomorrow morning and hope that he breaks his ankle . " I do n't know , " he added with a laugh. " He 's a phenomenal player and seeing the ball like no other player has seen a cricket ball before , and he 's playing shots that I do n't think most people have seen before . " Hopefully , he comes out and executes those same skills tomorrow and going forward in this competition. It 's like watching 'The Matrix ' movie , really. " De Villiers smashed the fastest 150 in one-day international cricket during his 66-ball 162 against the West Indies at Sydney last week . Steyn said the shorter boundaries at Eden Park would mean little to his skipper . " I really do n't think it ( the dimensions ) matters really. It does n't matter if it 's a big ground or small ground , you 'll still find a way. That is the beautiful thing about really good players. They do n't rely on conditions . " Great fast bowlers do n't have to worry about whether the track is flat or green. They 'll find a way to get wickets. And great batsmen do n't worry if the field is small or big , they 'll find a way to score runs. " Steyn denied Pakistan 's struggling top order would make his job easier. " It 's never an easy job , I can promise you. I 'm sure Pakistan will be as determined to come out and win , " said Steyn of a a side who have won their last two pool games after two defeats . " They are in a situation where I think they have to win a couple of games. So we will come out guns blazing and they 'll come out looking to pull off a win. We know that . " We just have to prepare the way we know against a team like that , and we 'll take it very seriously. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
