— BCCI ( @ BCCI ) December 3 , 2014 Australia captain Michael Clarke and the rest of the Test squad were joined by former and current players from around the world , and friends and relatives from Hughes ' hometown of 2,500 people on the northern coast of New South Wales state , 575 kilometers ( 350 miles north of Sydney ) . Clarke was a pallbearer and spoke at the funeral service held at the Macksville Recreation Centre and which opened to the song " Forever Young " by Youth Group . The service closed with Elton John 's " Do n't Let the Sun Go Down on Me , " the same song the famous entertainer and avid cricket fan performed at a concert last weekend in Germany in tribute to Hughes . Hughes died last Thursday , aged 25 , after being hit near the ear by a ball during a match at the Sydney Cricket Ground. His 26th birthday would have been Sunday. ( PM Modi Pays Tribute to Hughes ) In steaming temperatures of nearly 30 Celsius ( 85F ) early arrivals to the service , including Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott , fanned themselves with papers. Most of those who wore sports jackets and blazers had taken them off , some with sleeves of their white shirts rolled up to their elbows . A sad , poignant , beautiful service to celebrate the life of Phillip Hughes today in Macksville # RIPPhillipHughes — Tony Abbott ( @ TonyAbbottMHR ) December 3 , 2014 At the front of the hall , near the altar for the Roman Catholic service , was Hughes ' oak brown casket. Flowers and cricket bats , one with his test cap on the handle , were nearby . Leading the service , which included a video tribute , Father Michael Alcock remembered the batsman as a " shining light. " " In his short time he walked as a child of the light , not in an ostentatious way but in a natural , unassuming and passionate way , " the priest said. ( Read : Vatican Cricket Team Honours Hughes ) Virat Kohli at Phillip Hughes ' funeral . © AFP Clarke , who has described Hughes as the brother he never had , broke down frequently last weekend at the SCG when he first commented on his close friend 's death . On Wednesday , he took several deep breaths before he began his remarks at the funeral , saying Hughes would " definitely call me a sook right now. " ( Macksville Came to a Standstill ) " I do n't know about you , but I keep looking for him , " Clarke said. " I want to see his face pop up around the corner . " I can see how he has touched so many people around the world ... so rest in peace my little brother , see you out in the middle. " The funeral was broadcast live around Australia on commercial television stations and on video screens at the Adelaide Oval , where the rescheduled first test with India will start next Tuesday , and the SCG , where a row of 63 bats were propped up against pickets , each with an inscription of a special moment of Hughes ' career . Television footage showed residents of Macksville gathering in a park near the funeral for a telecast. Owners of many shops and businesses shut down to attend the funeral , and schoolchildren were let out of their classes early Wednesday to watch or attend the service . Among those to send their condolence messages was West Indies great Viv Richards , who posted on Twitter : " My heart goes out to the family , friends & the people of Macksville honouring their favourite son Phillip today. Viv. " Commemoration ceremonies for Hughes were held in Rome , where the Vatican 's cricket team held a memorial Mass. Vatican team captain , the Rev. Anthony Currer , presided over the Tuesday evening service at the Venerable English College , a seminary in Rome. He said the team wanted to show its closeness to Hughes ' family " bringing his life before God and bring it to our prayer. " Back in Macksville , Hughes ' cousin Nino Ramunno spoke at length about Hughes ' youth in Macksville as a keen , budding cricketer. One , who , if he lost a toss to determine who bats at the beginning of a match , kept suggesting it would be a best of three , five , or seven , or longer , until he won it . Ramunno ended his remarks with a saying he said he received from a family friend , in reference to Hughes : " He who lives in the hearts of so many , never dies. " ( With inputs from Associated Press ) Story first published on : Wednesday , 03 December 2014 08 : 23 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
