Stuart Broad set to play at the Oval sans mask The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 14 , 2014 , 11.25AM IST Broad may not need any special protective mask to play the fifth Test as the swelling on his nose has reduced. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Stuart Broad , who copped a nasty blow on the bridge of his nose at Old Trafford , did not practise at The Oval on Wednesday , but according to England team sources , the lanky pacer will play the fifth Test beginning here on Friday if there is no risk of aggravating his injury . At least team-mate Joe Root was pretty confident of that . " He is not a very pretty sight now. He 's not got his 'boy-band ' looks you 'd normally associate with Stuart and he is milking it on the social networking sites , " he said . " But I 'm sure he 'll be desperate to play on Friday. He 's obviously in good form ...and will be wanting to finish the series strongly with the rest of us , " Root added . Meanwhile , the Mirror reported that Broad may not need any special protective mask to play the fifth Test as the swelling on his nose has reduced . India 's loss a boon for the homeless India 's loss inside three days at Old Trafford was not good for the visiting team 's reputation , but it did have one unexpected spin-off . Lancashire County Cricket Club , the owners of Old Trafford , were able to use the sandwiches , initially ordered to feed all the staff and volunteers on the fourth and fifth days of the Test to provide support to local homeless people . Rather than seeing the food go waste , the club donated the sandwiches to Narrowgate Emergency Accommodation in the hope of " making a small difference " . Anderson crossed the line of respect : Brearley As the storm settles down over the spat between Ravindra Jadeja and James Anderson , former England captain Mike Brearley has said that the pacer should be encouraged to harness his aggression but not at the expense of respect . Brearley , writing in his column for The Times ' , said Anderson is not being a role model when he crosses the line of proper respect . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
