Stuart Broad stands tall , once again The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 9 , 2014 , 09.44AM IST Broad has a realistic chance of becoming the ninth player in the world to record a Test double of 300 wickets and 3000 runs. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MANCHESTER : In his spare time , Stuart Broad loves to experiment with his culinary skills. Sea bass with sweet potato and mango chutney is his favourite dish , but of late the England pace bowler has taken a special liking for Indian batsmen . On Thursday , the opening day of the fourth Test match at Old Trafford , Broad polished off the Indian tail to finish with fabulous figures of 6 for 25 . In bagging the 12th five-wicket haul of his career , Broad took his tally to 261 and needs just 39 more wickets to join Ian Botham ( 383 ) , Jimmy Anderson ( 374 ) , Bob Willis ( 325 ) and Fred Trueman ( 307 ) in England 's '300 Club' . Broad , currently sixth on the list of England 's most successful Test bowlers , was pleased with his performance . " It 's always nice to move up the list and I 'm sixth now , " said Broad . " But all eyes are on Jimmy ( Anderson ) . He needs 10 to beat Beefy ( Botham ) . That will be hugely exciting and I want to be around when that occurs. For him to be the first ( English ) bowler to take 400 wickets would be pretty special , too , " he added . Broad also has a realistic chance of becoming the ninth player in the world after Botham , Imran Khan , Shaun Pollock , Richard Hadlee , Kapil Dev , Shane Warne , Daniel Vettori and Chaminda Vaas to record a Test double of 300 wickets and 3000 runs . Broad confirmed that he would be out for up to three-and-a-half months after undergoing surgery on his injured right knee . " It 's been confirmed I 'm going to have an operation. The timing is not confirmed , but the doctor is flying over from Sweden after the Oval Test to have a look. It will either be after that Test or after the ODI series , depending on what he suggests , " Broad said . He , however , dispelled fears that he may not be available for the 2015 World Cup. " I should be fine ( for the World Cup ) ... it 's about three , three and-a half months. It 's actually a really good opportunity for me to get the knee sorted and to use it as a strength and conditioning period. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
