Sundar Raman gives the closing of his life The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Nov 19 , 2014 , 09.11AM IST Sundar Raman may be the fall guy in the eyes of many , but for the BCCI members he is still the suave manager. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : Sundar Raman may be the fall guy in the eyes of many , but for the BCCI members he is still the suave manager who has helped in the smooth running of the board over the past few years . Sundar is known to be impressive with his presentation skills and it was one such 'presentation ' , this time in his own defence , that had the BCCI working committee members agree that no action should be taken against him unless the Supreme Court finds him guilty. That there wo n't be any immediate action against the IPL Chief Operating Officer ( COO ) was reported by TOI on Monday . It was also decided that the Annual General Meeting of the BCCI will now take place on December 17. The BCCI legal coun sel explained to the members why the meeting needs to be pushed back and none of the members raised any objection . Sundar , who according to the Justice Mudgal panel had called a bookie 's contact eight times in one year , explained in the meeting on Tuesday that he was talking to Vindoo Dara Singh at a time when he did n't know that the latter had links with bookies. " He got 12,000 calls during that IPL season... There was no reason to believe that Sundar was lying , we have known him for years now , " a member present in the meeting told TOI . Sundar also explained to the working committee about his conversation with ICC Anti-Corruption Unit where the ACSU bosses told him that " it was not actionable information " . Sundar also reminded how YP Singh , the ACSU official , was present in the working committee meeting on May 19 , 2013 just after Sreesanth was arrested and said that he did n't have anything to report against any of the team owners . " Sundar said in today 's meeting that it was precisely the same reason why he did n't mention it to anybody else , " the source said , reminding that it was in the very next week the charges against Raj Kundra and Gurunath Meiyappan came out . When Sundar was presenting his case , there was absolutely no voice of opposition. " We met the members personally over dinner on Monday and even on Tuesday , there was nobody who was casting aspersions against N Srinivasan or Sundar , " the source added . The BCCI , which put up a united front , is also planning to retaliate against Aditya Verma , the Bihar Cricket Association chief. Many of the members believe that it is Lalit Modi who is behind it and they are planning to launch a probe once the case is over. " We wo n't take it lying down , there has been enough said against the board and we wo n't let that pass , " an angry member said after the meeting . AGM ON DEC 17 Meanwhile , the Annual General Meeting of the BCCI will now take place on December 17. The BCCI legal counsel explained to the members why the meeting needs to be pushed back and none of the members , which included Vidarbha Cricket Association president Prakash Dixit , raised any objection. It was also decided in the meeting that Dilip Vengsarkar will receive the CK Nayudu Lifetime Achievement award . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
