Sunil Gavaskar all praise for India 's World Cup squad The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jan 6 , 2015 , 06.17PM IST Sunil Gavaskar said while India 's batting line-up for the World Cup looks formidable. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Legendary batsman Sunil Gavaskar on Tuesday said while India 's batting line-up for the upcoming ODI cricket World Cup looks formidable , the all-rounders in the side are expected to play a major role in defending the title at the quadrennial extravaganza in Australia and New Zealand . READ ALSO : No Yuvraj ; Jadeja , Axar make cut for World Cup The Indian selectors on Tuesday included all-rounders Ravindra Jadeja , still recovering from a shoulder injury , and Stuart Binny in the 15-member squad for the World Cup . " The Indian batsmen are capable of putting a lot of runs on the board. Batting has been India 's strength. But the fact that we won the last World Cup and the Champions Trophy on the all-round performance , so the Jajedas , Binnys , Ashwins could play a role in India defending the title , " said Gavaskar . READ ALSO - World Cup team : A gamble , a leap of faith and a heart-break " India 's batting looks good and as far as bowling is concerned , if they can bowl well on the surfaces in Australia , they have a good chance , " he told a TV news channel . Opener Shikhar Dhawan , who struggled in the ongoing Test series against Australia , has also been retained in the squad , and Gavaskar feels he is a better choice over Murali Vijay in the limited-over format . " The World Cup is 50-over format and this is the format which will suit Dhawan more , " he pointed out . The fans have taken to the social networking sites after the World Cup squad was announced on Tuesday , criticising Stuart Binny 's inclusion in the side. His father , Roger , incidentally is a member of the selection committee . But Gavaskar lashed out at the fans , stating that he would have also picked Stuart , irrespective of his father being a former teammate . The 15-member Indian Squad for the forthcoming Cricket World Cup 2015. ( PTI Photo ) " When I picked my 15 , although I am not even a selector , I had applied my mind. I chose Stuart because on those kind of surfaces ( Australia and New Zealand ) , he could come in very handy with the seam bowling. As a lower order batsman also or as a floater. He can be pretty handy with the bat . " Whenever he got his chances in limited overs cricket , he picked more wickets than the regular bowlers. And the fact that India do not have great all-rounders , even as Axar Patel and Ravindra Jajeja are there , Binny could be a good seam-bowling all-rounder , " explained the former skipper . On whether it would have been better to have a leg-spinner in the side , Gavaskar said : " If that was the way I thought , I would have included a leg-spinner in my 15 that I chose the other day for the channel. " Asked who should be donning the wicketkeeper 's gloves in case Mahendra Singh Dhoni got injured and Robin Uthappa not been included in the squad , Gavaskar 's pick was Ambati Rayudu . " Rayudu has done a good job for Mumbai Indians and he can fill in for Dhoni. If there is a serious injury then replacement could be asked for. " Gavaskar said out-of-favour Yuvraj Singh must work harder to come back into the team . " It must have been hard on Yuvraj , who was the man-of-the-series in the last World Cup but form is such an important thing. But he is just 33-34 years old. Looking back at his experiences with the team earlier , he must be motivated to try and make a comeback. He must be missing the dressing room atmosphere , the camaraderie , the training , travelling , etc , " he elaborated . Meanwhile , speaking about the first day of the fourth and final Test at Sydney , Gavaskar said the Indian bowlers should not be blamed for letting Australia score 348 for two as it was a good wicket to bat on . " The pitch was very very good to bat on. I looked at the track in the morning and I thought it was a very good wicket to bat on. The ball was coming on nicely to the bat. There was hardly any deviation and because of the conditions , there was no movement in the air , " he explained . Gavaskar said Indian batsmen were quite capable of matching their Australian counterparts . " Muarli ( Vijay ) , Virat ( Kohli ) and Ajinkya ( Rahane ) can match it. Late on day 2 tomorrow , Indian batsmen might have the tired legs but if they could survive that then on the third day , India can bat as well as the Australians , " Gavaskar signed off . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
