Sunil Narine will bounce back , says Windies coach The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Oct 2 , 2014 , 12.20PM IST Four months ago , the West Indies named him as their bowling coach. The results have been immediate , with seamer Jerome Taylor crediting his recent good performance to the legend. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : It was a strange sight. On a hot Wednesday afternoon , the West Indies cricket team was slogging it out in the field , chirping away enthusiastically at the Brabourne Stadium , during their first practice session after arriving for a five-ODI , three-Test tour of India . Despite a few familiar IPL stars like Kieron Pollard and Darren Sammy amongst them , few onlookers bothered to look at the bunch. Most eyes were fixed on a few gentlemen observing players keenly from the chairs laid out for the Caribbean contingent . Among them was Curtly Ambrose , arguably the best fast bowler in the history of the game. The tall pacer , who took 405 wickets @ just 20.99 in 98 Tests , was on his first visit to India in 18 years - he had last come to the sub-continent to play in the 1996 World Cup . Four months ago , the West Indies named him as their bowling coach. The results have been immediate , with seamer Jerome Taylor crediting his recent good performance to the legend . Sitting on either side of Ambrose were former Windies skippers Clive Lloyd and Richie Richardson -the former led his team to the top , while the latter helmed the beginning of a free fall. Lloyd is now the chief selector , while Richardson has been a manager with this Caribbean side for a while now . Flanking them were newly-appointed coach Stuart Williams , a former opener , and South Africa 's Richard Pybus , former Pakistan coach , but now West Indies ' director of cricket . It is a solid think-tank , but the visitors would need the best brains to plan a rare 'coup ' in India - they have n't won a Test and an ODI series here in 31 & 27 years , respectively . Their last tour here , hastily arranged for Sachin Tendulkar 's farewell , turned out to be a farce , with the team being battered black and blue in the Tests before appearing slightly more competitive in the ODIs. Richardson expects his side to fare better this time around . " I believe we have the players who can beat anybody. We accept that we are not at the top of the rankings. But we have the ability and if we execute it well we can do very well , " he said . Naturally , the Windies are hoping that the Indians might still be licking their wounds from the debacle in the Tests in England. " When you are a top team and you lose , you just ca n't wait until the next series to really put things right. I just hope that it continues to be a problem for India. We know they are raring to recover from the loss in England. But we are up for the challenge , and we too have a lot to prove , " Richardson said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
