Suresh Raina : A vital cog in India 's World Cup gameplan The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 4 , 2015 , 10.27AM IST Raina is the perfect team man , a motivator and also a game-changer. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 Suresh Raina is the quintessential team man. You often see him run up to a fielder or a bowler to pat his back for a good effort. Even when the chips are down , he is seen trying to lift the spirits of his team mates . He is also a game changer. He can turnaround a match with a brilliant run out , a superlative catch or a swashbuckling knock. He can clobber the ball out of sight when in full flow - the smaller the format of the game the more dangerous he is with the bat . Raina has been maligned for his inability to flourish in the longer format of the game. But then , he is the only Indian with centuries in international cricket in all three formats : Tests , ODIs and T20s . There is little doubt that there are technical flaws in Raina 's batting : he has a problem with short-pitched deliveries. However , despite his limitations , he never loses confidence in his ability , and that has made him the trusted lieutenant of skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni , who will once again bank on Raina to deliver in the World Cup . The high point in Raina 's career came during the 2011 World Cup. He was benched in the initial stage as Dhoni relied on in-form Yusuf Pathan to bat at No. 6 and bowl a few overs of off-spin , a role which Raina also performs . Raina got his chance in the group game against West Indies , coming in place of an injured Virender Sehwag. Dhoni made a strategic change against defending champions Australia in the quarterfinals , bringing in Raina in place of Yusuf Pathan. The elegant southpaw responded by assisting Yuvraj Singh in a successful run-chase in a high pressure game , making 34 from 28 balls to carry India to victory . In the semifinals against Pakistan , he batted with the tailenders to score an unbeaten 36 , a significant contribution to India 's final tally of 260 . Raina 's effort in the quarterfinals and the semifinals helped India make it to the World Cup final and finally win the title. Gary Kirsten , the Team India coach then , praised Raina 's effort by saying : " Raina won the World Cup for us with some crucial knocks and lifted the spirit of the team during the knockout stage. " The Indian think-tank is expecting Raina to play a similar role this time. He is more of a bits-and-pieces player , but very effective. Dhoni knows how crucial he is to India 's cause and is always willing to back him , despite his flaws and the impish desire to go for his strokes right from the beginning. When it does not come off , India often tend to slip , but on his day he can create magic . Raina always desired to play top grade cricket and that 's the reason he left Muradnagar - a small town near Ghaziabad ( UP ) where his father Trilok Chand worked in an ordnance factory - and joined the government-run Sports College in Lucknow as a cricket trainee . As luck would have it , he found two ideal gurus in Krishnan and Deepak Sharma , who guided him in his early phase. Raina was a quick learner and willing to work hard. He had the example of Mohammed Kaif - who blossomed at the Sports Hostel in Green Park ( Kanpur ) - in front of him. Kaif 's entry into the Indian team motivated Raina to follow in his footsteps . It did not take Raina long to climb the ladder of success. He rose to the ladder of success. He rose become the captain of the Uttar Pradesh U-16s and caught the eye of India selectors in 2002 , when he was selected at the age of 15 and a half years for the U-19 tour to England , where he made a pair of half-centuries in the U-19 Test matches . He also toured Sri Lanka later that year with the U-17 team. He made his Ranji Trophy debut for Uttar Pradesh the following season against Assam in February 2003 at the age of 16 . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
