India in Australia : Michael Clarke Faces Decision Day Ahead of first Test India in Australia : Michael Clarke Faces Decision Day Ahead of first Test While he has been recovering from back and hamstring troubles , the news of Phillip Hughes ' tragic death has also had an impact on Michael Clarke . Last updated on Friday , 05 December , 2014 11 : 18 IST Total Shares File photo of Michael Clarke at a rugby match with Steve Smith . © Reuters Adelaide : Australia captain Michael Clarke faces a fitness test at training on Saturday to check on his chances of playing in next week 's first Test against India , coach Darren Lehmann said. ( Related : Shaun Marsh called in as cover for Clarke ) Clarke , troubled by a third hamstring setback since August , ran at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Friday before heading to Adelaide to join the Australia squad later in the day. ( Also read : Hughes ' funeral brings sense of closure , Australia focus on 1st Test ) The skipper , who was one of the pallbearers and led the tributes at the funeral of his close friend and Test batsman Phillip Hughes on Wednesday , will be given every chance of taking the field in the series opener against India at the Adelaide Oval on Tuesday . " As long as he 's fine to do the running and can bat ( he 'll play ) , " coach and selector Lehmann told reporters on Friday . " He flies in this afternoon. We 'll get him batting tomorrow and see how he goes . " It 'll be case of if he 's fine , he 'll play. We 'll just have to wait and see . " We 'll be guided by medical staff , the captain himself , selectors. We 'll get together and assess what the plan is tomorrow. " Clarke and the entire Test squad attended Hughes 's funeral in Macksville in northern New South Wales on Wednesday . On Thursday , Clarke attended a private cremation service with Hughes ' family in their home town while his teammates began to make their way to Adelaide . " He 's pretty mentally strong , as you saw throughout the week , " Lehmann said of Clarke should he lead Australia in what is shaping up as an emotional Test . " He held himself together really well and led the team really well. " Batsman Shaun Marsh has been added to Australia 's Test squad as cover for Clarke . Lehmann said it was too early to speculate who would be emotionally ready to start the Adelaide Test , given the traumatic lead-in to the series . " Time will tell , but today we 'll get out there and see how we go , " he said prior to Australia 's first training session since Hughes was fatally struck by a bouncer in a domestic game . Hughes , 25 , died last Thursday from bleeding on the brain , two days after being knocked unconscious by a bouncer in Sydney , throwing the cricketing world into mourning . " Now it 's a matter of rallying around each other , rallying around his family and the whole CA ( Cricket Australia ) family , " Lehmann said . He said he would n't expect Australia to be trained at full intensity for a few more days . " Probably not today , but certainly by the weekend. By Sunday or Monday I 'd expect them to be going 100 percent , " he said . Murali Vijay , stand-in skipper Virat Kohli and Rohit Sharma all attended the Hughes funeral and were all playing in India 's final pre-Test tour game against a Cricket Australia XI in Adelaide on Friday . Story first published on : Friday , 05 December 2014 10 : 11 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
