Suresh Raina hopeful of doing well in Test matches The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 16 , 2015 , 12.07PM IST Raina 's performances proved the catalyst in changing India 's fortunes in the ODI series in England. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : He is a vital cog in India 's limited overs scheme , but Suresh Raina was a surprise omission at the launch of Team India 's new kit here on Thursday. Is the redoubtable Man in Blue then losing his stature ? If he is , it never showed , for the southpaw was his usual cheerful self when the team went about their first workout after the Test series at the MCG here . Raina went through the drills and then was an active member at the warm-up football match they played as the team started its preparations in right earnest. It provided a surreal setting as this will be the same venue which will host the World Cup final in March-end . Despite his disastrous outing in the final Test in Sydney , where he faced mere four balls before falling for a duck in both innings , Raina was unperturbed by the reverse . " I got two good deliveries very early in the innings. Watty 's ( Shane Watson ) was a great ball first up in the first innings. There was a bit of misjudgment on my part in the second. I should have played forward , rather than trying to block ( Mitchell ) Starc from the crease. It happens , I just take it as a part of the game , " he said before running off to join his ODI mates in the MCG dining room . Last summer , it was Raina 's performances which proved the catalyst in changing India 's fortunes in the ODI series in England . Typically , picked just for the ODIs , he struck a brilliant century at Cardiff in the second ODI. After that win , with the first tie washed off due to rain , the team found itself on the path to recovery after having lost the Test series . Cardiff paved the way for India 's ODI series win. Things are a bit different now . In Australia , Raina was part of the Test team , but he also to suffer the ignominy of a pair when called upon to deliver. Statistics reveal he has five ducks in his last seven Test innings over the last two years. The question marks are getting bigger , but there is no doubting that he is a different quantity in the ODIs . Raina may be a classic Jekyll and Hyde case in international cricket , but he refutes the suggestion , saying he still thinks he can do well in Test matches . Despite his recent Test failures he is confident about his game . " Nothing has changed for me. Nor has my confidence been dented. Only , I need to be more watchful early in the innings , be it in Test cricket or the ODIs. The sooner I get a good knock under my belt , the better it will be for the team , " he said . Ravi Shastri , director of Team India , had exuded confidence in Raina as a Test batsman before the selectors picked the team for the series . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
