Surya ends his Mumbai captaincy stint , Tare to lead The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Jan 28 , 2015 , 12.33PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Less than three months after he was named as Mumbai skipper with an eye on the future , Suryakumar Yadav submitted his resignation , ending his controversial stint in the post. Stung already by a humiliating innings defeat against Tamil Nadu in the last game , the selectors promptly replaced him at the top with wicketkeeper Aditya Tare , who accepted the offer after having declined it last year , as the new captain. Mumbai are down in the dumps at this stage of their Ranji Trophy campaign ( 11 points in six games ) , and need to win both their remaining matches ( against heavyweights Baroda and Karnataka ) on an outright basis to harbour any hopes of making it to the quarters . Tare was aware of the massive task his team faces now , but sounded positive. " In every challenge lies an opportunity. We are looking to grab this chance. There is still a lot of positivity in our camp , " Tare told TOI from Baroda , where Mumbai will play their next match from Thursday . Worryingly , the 27-year-old himself has n't been in great form , managing just 199 runs in nine innings so far this season. " For me , the primary concern right now is that the team must win. Having said that , I have set certain standards for myself , which I have n't lived up to so far this season. However , I am confident of finding my touch again , " he said. Tare was confident Yadav would still be able to produce his best. " His form has been one of the positives for us , and I hope he keeps playing like that , " the skipper said . Although Yadav had a successful time with the bat ( 485 runs at an average of 53.88 , including two centuries ) as a captain , adverse reports about his behaviour , and Mumbai 's free fall this season seem to have convinced the youngster to give away the responsibility. " I do n't think captaincy affected my batting. I was batting well and as freely as I have done. I was enjoying my game too . It 's just that something or the other was missing , " Yadav said . The 24-year-old termed the whole episode as a 'learning process ' for him. " I 'm trying to take the positives out of this. People do make mistakes and I 'm willing to learn from mine , " he said. Yadav felt that the incident has made him more 'determined and responsible. ' " It wo n't stop me from scoring runs and realizing my big dream of playing for India , " he stressed. Meanwhile , left-arm spinner Harmeet Singh , who was embroiled in the IPL fixing scandal in 2013 before being cleared by the BCCI , has made a return to the Mumbai side. The selectors have made three changes. Both the left-arm spinners , Iqbal Abdulla and Vishal Dabholkar have been dropped after having failed to create any impact on a turning track in Chennai . Team : Aditya Tare ( Captain ) , Wasim Jaffer , Suryakumar Yadav , Shreyas Iyer , Siddhesh Lad , Sufiyan Shaikh , Shardul Thakur , Nikhil Patil , Akhil Herwadkar , Shrideep Mangela , Badre Alam , Tushar Deshpande , Akshay Girap , Harmeet Singh , Balwinder Singh Sandhu . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
