Suspension , fine for Bangladesh captain Mashrafe Mortaza after team ’ s exit from World Cup The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 19 , 2015 , 09.48PM IST Match referee Roshan Mahanama imposed the suspension on Mortaza after Bangladesh were ruled to be two overs short of their target at the end of the match. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Captain Mashrafe Mortaza 's woes after Bangladesh 's exit from the World Cup were compounded by a suspension and fine for his team 's slow over-rate in the losing quarterfinal against India . As it happened : India vs Bangladesh Match referee Roshan Mahanama imposed the suspension on Mortaza after Bangladesh were ruled to be two overs short of their target at the end of the match when time allowances were taken into consideration . READ ALSO : ​ Protests in Bangladesh over 'biased ' umpiring Mortaza pleaded guilty to the offence and accepted the proposed sanction . The skipper lamented that his side , playing in their first World Cup quarterfinal , could have scored 270-280 runs instead of 193 against India , but were unable to make any partnerships and lost wickets at regular intervals . Bangladesh captain Mashrafe Mortaza shakes hands with Indian captain MS Dhoni after being beaten by 109 runs in the World Cup quarterfinal in Melbourne. ( Reuters Photo ) " It was brilliant tournament for us. Obviously , the way we played today , it was n't great , but most of the players in our side have n't any cricket in Australia , so it was a really big ask for us , " he said . " I feel very proud as the captain of this team , and hopefully our boys will take it in the next series . " We always knew that India come hard after the 35th over. They have been brilliant after 35 , " he said . " They take the calculated risk , and they 've had success. Once again , we could n't bowl with our plans. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
