Tagore , and World Cup 's unique National Anthems The author has posted comments on this article Zinia Sen , TNN | Mar 21 , 2015 , 02.00PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Cultural similarities , economic interdependence , passion for cricket and a 4,096 km-long border - India and Bangladesh have a lot more in common than these. As the two teams lined up on Thursday morning at the MCG , ready to cross swords in the quarterfinals , the warriors from the two sides were joined together by a 'Nobel ' link from another era . Rabindranath Tagore has the unique credit of scripting the National Anthems for both the countries. Written in Sanskrit-heavy Bengali , Jana Gana Mana - India 's National Anthem - was misunderstood to be a dedication to King George V and Queen Mary on their visit to country in 1911. To clear the air , Tagore wrote a letter to the Emperor , stating that the creator of India , as mentioned in the song , is none other than God himself. The song was officially adopted by the Constituent Assembly as the Indian National Anthem on January 24 , 1950 . Amar Sonar Bangla , on the other hand , was adopted as Bangladesh 's National Anthem in 1971 during the Liberation War. The song was penned in 1905 during the first partition of Bengal , when the ruling British Empire split the province of Bengal in two parts. With Amar Sonar Bangla , Tagore compared his motherland to gold and rekindled the unified spirit of Bengal . Here 's a look at the national anthems of the other countries which made it to the quarterfinals.. . Australia National Anthem : Advance Australia Fair God Save the Queen was the National Anthem till 1974 , but was replaced by Advance Australia Fair written by PD McCormick in the late 1800s. It was chosen after a plebiscite , when , in 1973 , the government felt the need for an anthem . West Indies cricketing Anthem : Rally Round the West Indies The confederation of Caribbean nations does n't have a single national anthem. The Windies Board adopted David Rudder 's song as the anthem to capture the emotions of the region. Rudder is one of the most successful calypsonians of all time . New Zealand National Anthem : God Defend New Zealand & God Save the Queen God Defend New Zealand , written in the 1870s , was played at the 1972 Munich Olympics. After a sustained campaign , it got the status of the country 's second national anthem in 1977 . Pakistan National Anthem : Qaumi Taranah The Ahmad G Chagla tune was first played by a navy band in 1950. In the same year , it was played for PM Liaquat Ali Khan during his visit to the US. Hafeez Jullundhri wrote the lyrics in 1952 and the anthem was recognized in 1954 . Sri Lanka National Anthem : Sri Lanka Matha Written and composed by Ananda Samarakoon in 1940 , the song was adopted as the national anthem in 1951. Samarakoon was a student of Tagore and it 's said that the song was inspired by the bard 's music . South Africa National Anthem : Nkosi Sikelel iAfrika & Die Stem van Suid-Afrika Nkosi Sikelel ( God Bless Africa ) was written in 1897 and Die Stem ( The Call of South Africa ) in 1918. The South African government adopted both as national anthems in 1994. They were merged in 1997 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
