Taylor misses out on century after umpire error The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Feb 14 , 2015 , 07.01PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Batsman James Taylor won admirers for playing a lone hand in England 's crushing loss in their World Cup opener to co-hosts Australia on Saturday , but may have been denied a maiden century by an umpiring error on the last ball of the match . Taylor was on 98 in a final-wicket stand with tail-ender James Anderson when he was given out lbw by umpire Aleem Dar off the bowling of Josh Hazlewood at the Melbourne Cricket Ground . Anderson bolted through for a single as Australia appealed the lbw and Glenn Maxwell threw down the stumps in a chaotic finish . Taylor had the lbw decision over-turned but a review of the run-out showed Anderson short of his ground . After some conferring by the umpires , the run-out was confirmed and Australia celebrated a 111-run win over their arch-rivals . Taylor smiled wryly as he shook hands with his opponents out in the middle , but the ICC later confirmed that the wicket should never have been given . Umpire Aleem Dar raises his finger to give England 's James Taylor ( left ) out lbw out as James Anderson ( right ) fails to gain his ground and later declared run out during the Pool A 2015 World Cup match between Australia and England. ( AFP Photo ) " Article 3.6a of appendix six of the decision review system... states that the ball should have been deemed dead when the batsman was given out lbw . " No further runs or dismissals were possible . " The PCT ( Playing Control Team ) spoke to the England team management and acknowledges that the game ended incorrectly and an error was made. " Though Taylor may have felt disappointed , he was earlier fortunate to be dropped on 20 by man-of-the-match Aaron Finch , who spilled a regulation chance near the boundary . England captain Eoin Morgan praised the 25-year-old 's resilience , having stood up to the Australian attack after four of the team 's top five batsmen failed to surpass 10 runs . " Typical James Taylor. He got himself in , scored in different areas and managed to take advantage of being in , " Morgan said . " Again , these are qualities we 're looking for. Guys who can not only get 60 , 40 , guys who can go on and potentially win a game. " Taylor was also shunted down the batting order to sixth , making way for Gary Ballance who replaced Ravi Bopara and scored 10 at number three . The move raised eyebrows but Morgan said Taylor was better suited in the middle order . " James Taylor probably batted closer to his natural position in the batting lineup than he 's ever done before. Batting three is a bit strange for him , " Morgan said , defending the shakeup . " And Gary has had a fantastic 12 months of Test match cricket batting at three and has looked in magnificent touch since he 's been here. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
