Team Australia lauded for World Cup victory The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 30 , 2015 , 11.48AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Australia lauded its World Cup winning team Monday for a " fairytale " victory on home soil over New Zealand , with praise heaped on retiring one-day captain Michael Clarke after a dream farewell . Clarke hit 74 as Australia cruised home by seven wickets in a one-sided final in front of a record crowd of 93,013 at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on Sunday . The win , culminating a gruelling tournament , was front page news across the country with The Australian newspaper saying : " Pitch perfect Australia lives the dream to claim fifth World Cup. " " Done it without raising a sweat or anybody 's pulse , " the broadsheet 's cricket writer Peter Lalor said . " Michael Clarke 's side made easy work of New Zealand at the MCG , much as they had with India in the semi-final and Pakistan in the quarter. " Thousands of fans turned out to greet the hungover team in Melbourne 's Federation Square on Monday with the biggest cheers reserved for Clarke . " A little hungover. I think I speak for everybody in that sense , " he said when asked how he was feeling . The Sydney Daily Telegraph focused its coverage on the outgoing Clarke , who announced his retirement from the one-day international format on the eve of the final . " Pup 's fairytale farewell as Aussies crowned world champions , " it said on its front page , referring to Clarke by his nickname . " Lifting the trophy provided Clarke the fairytale ending that seemed so unlikely in November , when his chronic hamstrings again betrayed him and the ambition of captaining a World Cup winning team appeared far-fetched , " it added . The captain , wearing a black armband , dedicated the win to Phillip Hughes , the team-mate who died after being hit on the head by a bouncer last year , which the Telegraph said was a fitting tribute . " Of course no silverware could erase the painful memories of Phillip Hughes ' tragic and traumatising death , " cricket writer Richard Hinds said . " Yet , at the twilight of a confronting , even brutal summer , this was rich reward for Australia 's experience , endurance and composure. " Australia batsman Hughes died on November 27 last year , two days after being hit on the head by a Sean Abbott bouncer in a first-class match in Sydney . With Clarke choosing to now focus on Test cricket , The Age in Melbourne said the team was in transition but was in good hands , with Steve Smith expected to be named his successor . " In Michael Clarke and Steven Smith , two generations of Australian cricket steered their team through the final leg of their long trek to a fifth World Cup , " wrote Malcolm Knox , the Fairfax Media cricket writer . " The outgoing captain and the incoming ; the elder who has battled his health all summer to get in , and the younger who has been almost impossible to get out . " With Clarke 's retirement from the one-day game , Australia is already in transition , " he added . " Brad Haddin , and presumably Shane Watson and Mitchell Johnson , will not be defending their title in England in 2019 , but otherwise the strength of the current team is its youth. " At the Melbourne fan meet and greet , Deputy Prime Minister Warren Truss said " all of Australia is proud of them " . " They 're a champion team and they 're a team of champions. And they 've flown the flag of Australia with great pride , " he added . " They won the trophy , they won the man-of-the-match for the final , they won the man-of-the-tournament. " Left-arm fast bowler Mitchell Starc was named man-of-the-tournament for a haul of 22 wickets at a meagre average of just over 10 apiece , while fellow quick James Faulkner was man-of-the-match . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
