Mahendra Singh Dhoni Gets New Hairstyle for Australia Series Mahendra Singh Dhoni Gets New Hairstyle for Australia Series Mahendra Singh Dhoni has left for India 's tour of Australia with a trendy hairstyle. Can his new haircut bring him any luck on a tough tour ? Last updated on Friday , 05 December , 2014 21 : 01 IST Total Shares Dhoni was spotted in his new hairstyle en route to Australia. ( Image Tweeted by Star Sports ) © Twitter Relaxed and well-rested after a break from international cricket , Mahendra Singh Dhoni was clicked sporting a brand-new hairstyle. Flashing his trademark smile , the India captain looked suave in a clean , cropped cut , en route to Australia for the four-Test series , starting in Adelaide on December 9. ( Dhoni is India 's No.1 Skipper , Not Kohli : Gavaskar ) Dhoni has always made serious style statements with his hairstyles. When he first burst on to the world stage a decade back , the Jharkhand wicketkeeper-batsman sported long hair. It even drew praise from former Pakistan President , General Pervez Musharraf. ( Kohli , Pacers Get Good Practice Ahead of First Test ) Dhoni , was also seen in a trendy Mohawk cut during the Indian Premier League in 2013 and it got him rave reviews. Dhoni had led Chennai Super Kings to the IPL final but lost to Mumbai Indians . Mostly seen with smart , short haircuts these days , the 33-year-old has decided to try something dramatic before his side 's grueling series Down Under gets under way . Dhoni last played for India on October 17 against West Indies before being sidelined with a cracked thumb . He was even ruled out for the first Test in Brisbane , which was scheduled to start on December 4. However , Phillip Hughes ' tragic death forced the match to be abandoned , allowing Dhoni enough time to start contemplating playing in the Adelaide Test from December 9 . Story first published on : Friday , 05 December 2014 17 : 28 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
