Team India 's new ODI jersey unveiled The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jan 15 , 2015 , 11.12AM IST The new lightweight kit combines high performance innovation with sustainability. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Nike , the official apparel sponsor of the Cricket Board ( BCCI ) , on Thursday unveiled Indian team 's new one-day international kit which the players will sport in the triangular series in Australia starting on Friday . The Indian cricketers will be seen in their new striking ODI kit when the take the field against Australia on Sunday . The new lightweight kit combines high performance innovation with sustainability. Each kit -- jersey and bottoms -- is made out of an average of 33 recycled plastic bottles . Nike crafted the latest Team India uniform in a bold new design with some of the company 's latest global apparel innovations to help the team perform at their best . Team India 's uniform was designed by listening to the voice of the athletes and collecting data on the form and movement of today 's players on the field , a Nike release said . Following extensive research and athlete driven insights , Nike designers created a new dynamic fit using a unique four way stretch fabric ideal for cricket , enhancing comfort for the players and allowing the body to move naturally within the kit . The Nike Dri-FIT technology and Nike Pro Baselayer helps regulate a player 's body temperature through increased venting and breath ability for players to stay focused on their game . Indian cricket players during the unveiling of the one-day international kit at Melbourne Cricket Ground. ( Getty Images ) " The new Team India uniform is light , comfortable and packed with innovation to help minimise distractions on the field of play and that 's critical when millimeters make a difference between a game winning innings or wicket , " said India 's ODI captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni . " 2015 is a massive year for Team India as the best teams in the world compete for cricket 's greatest prize. The Team India jersey truly symbolises the passion for cricket in our nation. Wearing this jersey is a matter of pride for every player. " Dhoni , Ravichandran Ashwin , Umesh Yadav , and Ravindra Jadeja along with everyday cricketers provided insights into the new uniform made out of an innovative Dri-Fit Prime Lite lightweight fabric . Mindful of the technical and physical demands of the modern game , the uniform also features specially designed laser ventilation holes and breathable engineered knit to aid cooling during match time . " This is more than just a jersey. This is the passion of a billion hearts , the colour that unites the entire nation. We are pleased that Nike has used its global expertise to adopt innovative technologies from different sports and craft them to the specific needs of Team India players. The new kit is a perfect testimonial to Nike 's dedication in delivering nothing but the best , " said BCCI secretary Sanjay Patel . Nike also unveiled its new cricket footwear Nike LunarDominate ( batting ) and Nike LunarAccelerate ( bowling ) , thereby offering a new level of innovation and support for cricketers . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
