Team watch : Zimbabwe - Going from bad to worse The author has posted comments on this article Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 What more can Dav do ? The Zimbabweans believe that 60-year-old Australian Dav Whatmore has the Midas touch which can help revive their fortunes . Whatmore 's biggest challenge as coach will be to convert Zimbabwe into a fighting unit in the World Cup. The Australian is no stranger to World Cup heroics as had coached the Sri Lankan team which won the 1996 Cup and then helped Bangladesh to reach the Super 8 stage in 2007 . However , Whatmore , who took over the reins of the Zimbabwe side in December last year , has his task cut out as the team is literally in the dumps. Zimbabwe 's best moments in the World Cup came in 1999 and 2003 but since 2004 , things have gone from bad to worse . Turning things around in such a short span of time is asking for too much , but Whatmore remains positive . " I am always an optimist but I am going in with my eyes wide open. They can play and they are tough enough. They 're just looking for more of what they need to perform. I hope to make a difference in terms of getting their performances to improve , " Whatmore had said in an interview earlier. " Even though it 's a World Cup , it 's still a game. When the umpire says play , you have to relax and play or it 's not going to work. " Zimbabwe 's build-up has n't been that encouraging. They were held 2-2 by Afghanistan and then lost 0-3 to South Africa and lost three of their four games in the tri-series involving SA and Australia , before being thumped 0-5 by Bangladesh. However , they also had their high point with a historic win over Australia in the tri-series in Harare . They scored a three-wicket win over the three-time World Champions after a long break of 31 years. Their only other win against Australia had come in the 1983 World Cup , which incidentally was their first-ever One-day International game . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
