India in Australia : Mahendra Singh Dhoni Could Play First Test in Adelaide India in Australia : Mahendra Singh Dhoni Could Play First Test in Adelaide India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni has arrived in Adelaide and will train with his teammates on Sunday . Last updated on Saturday , 06 December , 2014 16 : 15 IST Total Shares File photo of MS Dhoni . © AFP Adelaide : India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni could play the first Test against Australia as he attempts to overcome a left fractured thumb before the start of the delayed series. ( Not the Summer to Involve in Sledging , Says Allan Border ) Dhoni , like his hamstring-injured Australian counterpart Michael Clarke , would have missed the originally scheduled first Test in Brisbane. But the death of Australia batsman Phillip Hughes forced a rescheduling of the Test series , with Adelaide now hosting the opener at the Adelaide Oval starting Tuesday and the Brisbane Test set for a week later . Dhoni flew into Adelaide on Saturday and will train with his teammates on Sunday. ( Also Read : Dhoni Gets New Hairstyle ) Both teams are switching their focus back to the series after the death of Hughes , who died on November 27 two days after being struck by a ball while batting in a domestic match in Sydney . " We are professional cricketers , we have to move on , " Indian paceman Ishant Sharma said Saturday. " What has happened is really bad and everyone was really shocked ( we ) need to look forward to what is coming next for us and that is what we will do. " ( Read : Australia to Wear No.408 as Tribute to Phillip Hughes in Adelaide ) His teammate Rohit Sharma said the first Test would be welcomed by a mourning cricket world . " It was a very sad incident but cricket has to go on , the game will go on , " he said Saturday. " Mentally , everyone is focused to do well. When you go out on the park , the only thing is about how to perform and give your best. That incident of Phil Hughes will definitely be in everyone 's minds but when it comes to this game , we all be focused on how to do well and get the best result. " ( Phillip Hughes ' Death : SCG Retires Pitch No. 7 ) Story first published on : Saturday , 06 December 2014 14 : 53 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
