Tendulkar shares batting tips ahead of World Cup The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 11 , 2015 , 01.34PM IST Sachin Tendulkar played in six World Cups from 1992 to 2011. The one in 1992 was his maiden appearance at the quadrennial extravaganza. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : With the World Cup around the corner , cricket icon Sachin Tendulkar gave batsmen in international cricket a peek into his mantra for success while batting in the challenging conditions and wickets of Australia and New Zealand . One of the most decorated cricketers in the history of the game , Tendulkar played in six World Cups from 1992 to 2011. The one in 1992 was his maiden appearance at the quadrennial extravaganza . " Perth and Brisbane are renowned for their fast and bouncy wickets that will easily expose inexperience. Both , batsmen and bowlers have low margins for errors. As a batsman , if you understand the pace and bounce , then you could get on top of the bowling , " Tendulkar wrote in his World Cup column for ICC . He added : " For the bowler , the good-length spot is smaller in area on these wickets and the batsman can capitalise if the line and length falters. But if they extract bounce from the good length areas , then it would make the batsman 's life difficult. " The 41-year-old , who retired from international cricket in November 2013 , cautioned the batsmen to be wary of the wind factor in New Zealand . " In New Zealand , batsmen will have to beware of the windy conditions due to the geographical locations of some of the venues. The wind sometimes can be strong enough to seriously affect a batsman 's timing , playing against the wind your back lift is faster but the down-swing is considerably slow , while the ball is coming on faster - and vice-versa from the other end. " Tendulkar is the most successful batsman in ICC 's pinnacle event with 2,278 runs in 45 matches , including 482 runs in nine matches in India 's successful campaign in the 2011 World Cup . He spoke about the ground shapes and long boundaries in Australia and New Zealand . " The other peculiarity of grounds in New Zealand is that not all of them are the traditional round shape. In Australia , the Adelaide Oval , true to its name , has shorter boundaries at point and square leg but very long straight boundaries. As a visiting team , this makes a big difference because it affects the field positions and bowling strategies , " Tendulkar said . " The bigger grounds in Australia also result in longer boundaries. I remember when they had full boundaries during the '99 series , I called for a fourth run on a Ricky Ponting throw from the boundary. We ran in spite of Ricky 's strong arm , knowing that the ball would take some time to reach the wicketkeeper. Even though the boundaries have been brought in since then , they continue to be long . " For players struggling with form , the additional fielder in the circle will pose a challenge as rotating the strike will be tougher. But at the same time , as a batsman let me say that if we have two in-form batsmen at the crease ... then , God help the bowlers ! " Tendulkar is the leading run-getter in ODIs with 18,426 runs in 463 matches. Tendulkar was the player of the 2003 World Cup when India finished runner-up to Australia . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
