The Mumbai story - A fightback scripted by youngsters The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Feb 10 , 2015 , 09.53AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Mumbai 's incredible resurrection , which saw them make the quarterfinals of the Ranji Trophy after being completely down and out at one stage , began with their 169-run win over Baroda in what was a high-pressure , must-win game for them . Going into that tie , things were looking extremely difficult for them , and amongst a host of problems , the 40-time champions were contending with the fact that they were being led by a new captain , Aditya Tare , who himself was n't amongst runs . On Monday , after finally making the cut to the KOs at the Wankhede , coach Pravin Amre and Tare recounted where and how Mumbai 's fight-back began . For starters , with no flight or train tickets available , the team had to travel from Mumbai to Baroda by bus. " We started at 8.30am and reached at 5.30 in the evening . The best thing was that we went to the ground straight away. We had a meeting there , in which we discussed how important the next four days would be for Mumbai and individuals in the team . When you are out in the league stage , nobody gives importance to your performance , and a couple of boys have performed so well this season , that they deserve to be in the next level. Everyone in the team wanted to play for each other , and that is the way they did play , " Amre said . " The guys really pulled up their socks up and worked really hard in the last two games. portant the next four days would be for Mumbai and individuals in the team. When you are out in the league stage , nobody gives importance to your performance , and a couple of boys have performed so well this season , that they deserve to be in the next level. Everyone in the team wanted to play for each other , and that is the way they did play , " Amre said . " The guys really pulled up their socks up and worked really hard in the last two games. By God 's grace , we got the results our way , " said Tare. " I was always optimistic about our chances. We have always done well under pressure. We are a team which is used to big games and challenges. We thought we could have a crack at qualifying , and we played our hearts out , " he said . Having lost to Jammu & Kashmir , Railways ( on the first innings lead ) and Tamil Nadu ( their first innings defeat in 64 years ) this season , Mumbai have been under fire , despite this being a very young team . " The boys have shown real character , because it is easy to criticise. This a young side , with as many as seven debutants having played this season. When you play for Mumbai , the expectations are so high , and many times the youngsters were unable to defeat Kashmir , Railways ( on the first innings lead ) and Tamil Nadu ( their first innings defeat in 64 years ) this season , Mumbai have been under fire , despite this being a very young team . " The boys have shown real character , because it is easy to criticise. This a young side , with as many as seven debutants having played this season. When you play for Mumbai , the expectations are so high , and many times the youngsters were unable to de liver. But we backed them , since that ( finding Gen Next ) was our main policy. And then so many positives happened . In the batting , guys like like Shreyas Iyer ( 649 runs so far this season ) , Suryakumar Yadav ( 601 ) , Siddhesh Lad ( 427 ) and Aditya Tare ( 422 ) delivered when it mattered. In the bowling department , Shardul Thakur ( 32 wickets ) has been a lion-hearted performer , " the coach said . It was apparent that Tare 's leadership made a difference too , with his unbeaten hundred being key to the win in Baroda. " The good thing was that as a 'keeper , he knew when to use which bowler. His knock in the last match was special , " felt Amre. " I have always loved captaining a side . It gets the best out of me. It has helped that my team and the support staff gave me 100 % backing , " Tare said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
