There is nothing illegal about reverse swing : Michael Holding The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 18 , 2014 , 09.23AM IST Reverse swing is not a modern-day phenomenon , says Holding. ( Agencies Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : What he does n't know about pace bowling is perhaps not worth knowing. Michael Holding , nicknamed 'Whispering Death ' for his smooth and quiet run-up to the stumps before he unleashed his thunderbolts , spoke exclusively to TOI on the art of swing , both conventional and reverse , during the lunch break on Day 1 of the Lord 's Test here . Following are excerpts : How do you react to the pace bowlers these days relying more on reverse swing than conventional swing to dismiss rival batsmen ? Reverse swing is not a modern-day phenomenon. It has existed for a long time. It is only now with improved technology that TV cameras are able to pick up the shinier side of the ball and the manner in which it dips . Can reverse swing be achieved with a relatively new ball ? Look , to understand reverse swing , you have to first understand conventional swing. A new cricket ball will swing conventionally in the air - towards the direction in which its seam is pointed - provided it is delivered at a certain pace and released from a certain body and wrist position. It has nothing to do with the pitch. Atmospheric conditions do matter because you need a medium to swing the ball. You can not swing the ball in vacuum. The ball is bound to swing more when the atmosphere is heavy. In order to achieve reverse swing , it is imperative that certain bias is imparted to the ball. In other words , one side of the ball has to be shiny , leaving the other side as rough as possible so that the wind can act on it and cause it to dip to the heavier and shinier side . What role does the seam play in swing bowling ? None. Seam movement pertains to the ball deviating in a particular direction after it hits the surface. That seam of the ball has to grip the surface in order to deviate. You can get no seam movement when you are bowling on a glass sheet or concrete pitch as the ball skids of these surfaces . Is it possible to achieve reverse swing in a T20 game ? Only if the playing arena is very rough and the ball keeps getting bruised every time it travels across it. Only then , may be after 12-13 overs you can hope to reverse it provided the shinier side has been maintained well. However , I challenge anyone to get the ball to reverse when the pitch and outfield is as green as we have here at Lord 's for this Test . Did you ever try to bowl reverse swing ? I stuck to conventional swing , but Malcolm Marshall was a great exponent of reverse swing. He would hide the ball with his other palm when he ran in to bowl so that batsmen would n't pick him . But you always ran in holding the ball seam up... . Shane Warne says he did n't care if the batsman knew that he was going to deliver a leg-break. They still had to play it well. The ability to spin or swing the ball requires different skills set. Even as a bowler you do n't know just how much the ball will swing or spin. That is why I did n't bother to hide the ball . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
