There is nothing in life without hope , says Sehwag The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Dec 3 , 2014 , 12.14PM IST " I 'm playing First class cricket and trying to score as many runs as I can. There is hope that maybe I can score runs and get back into the side , " Sehwag clarified. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : All of us may have begun to think that his story is now over , but Virender Sehwag still believes there is a final chapter left. There are few people who believe that at 36 , the fading star can play for India again . Some of his fans , in fact , believe that a player of his stature does deserve a farewell Test. The man , himself , though , is n't willing to go down without a fight . At an event on Tuesday where he was strangely named the 'Mumbai ambassador ' as MoneyGram launched a six-city tour of the ICC 2015 World Cup trophy , the discarded batsman spoke from the heart when he talked about a possible comeback into the Indian team , which looks far-fetched at the moment . " There is nothing in life without hope. I hope my name is there in 30-man probables ' list. Every cricketer wants to play in the World Cup. It is my dream to play in it , " he said , while rubbishing speculation that he was looking at 'retirement ' seriously now . " I 'm playing First class cricket and trying to score as many runs as I can. There is hope that maybe I can score runs and get back into the side , " he clarified . Sehwag 's words on Tuesday deepened the mystery over why he and Gautam Gambhir missed the Deodhar Trophy. It was reported that he withdrew from the tournament to 'give chances to the youngsters, ' and it triggered speculation that he had begun 'winding up ' from the game . " I 'm here to talk about the World Cup , not Deodhar Trophy , " he shot back , when probed on the topic , giving rise to speculation that he and Gambhir were not considered by the North Zone selectors . Confirming that he would continue to bat in the middle-order for Delhi , the 104-Test veteran said : " It does n't matter where I bat , it 's important for me to score runs...watch the ball , if it 's in my zone , just try to hit it. " At every stage while talking to the media , Sehwag kept hinting at his desire to stage a comeback. Does he think the Indian team for the World Cup would lack experience ? " Let them announce the probables and the team , then we 'll talk about it , " he said. He did bat for what should be a relatively-much younger Indian team , which defends the title Down Under in a couple of months ' time. " This team is no less formidable , " he said . Is n't it missing too many senior players from 'Class of 2011 ' ? " Do you call back senior reporters in your channel after they 've retired ? " he countered . " We are playing good one-day cricket , and can defend the World Cup , " he felt , while tipping India , Australia , South Africa and New Zealand to be the four semifinalists. Sehwag believes India will do well in Australia in the forthcoming Tests . " Australia is not England , where the ball will swing and seam. The boys have played there in the Emerging Trophy , and they went there two weeks before the first Test , so they 'll get accustomed to the conditions. I think they 'll do well , " said Sehwag . The swashbuckler does n't want the bouncers to be curtailed or banned post Phil Hughes ' tragic death. " In any sport , injuries will happen. You can die too. I 've got hit on the helmet a lot of times. You have the option to 'duck'. If you cut out the bouncer , then there is no fun in cricket , then it 's a batsman 's game. I do n't think the ICC should do that , " he felt . Recalling India 's 2011 Cup triumph at home , Sehwag said : " We celebrated every knockout win as if it was our last game. " The semifinal against Pakistan , he felt was tougher than the final against Sri Lanka. " The final was n't tough. We had n't lost to the Lankans for two years. Against Pakistan , we thought that 260 was n't enough , but our bowlers did a fantastic job and won the game for us. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
