There is still plenty for India to play The author has posted comments on this article Archiman Bhaduri , TNN | Nov 12 , 2014 , 01.23PM IST With No. 1 rank up for grabs , India is unlikely to drop the intensity. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 KOLKATA : For the visitors , the series is gone. Having lost the first three matches , Sri Lanka are looking down the barrel as they take on India in the fourth ODI at the Eden Gardens on Thursday . It will be a huge challenge for the Lankan bowlers , who have taken a pounding at the hands of a young Indian line-up led by stand-in skipper Virat Kohli . The bad news for the visitors is that the Eden Gardens track prepared for the match looks like a batsmen 's paradise. According to ground staff , the dry and hard pitch is expected to yield good bounce and carry , and with the ball coming nicely on to the bat , there will be no margin for error for the bowlers . With conditions favouring batsmen , strokeplayers like Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , Ambati Rayudu and Suresh Raina are likely to rule the roost . Sri Lanka will be hoping that their batsmen will fire and give the relatively inexperienced attack a decent total to defend. The fate of the match could well be decided by a batting slugfest . Given the history of Eden Gardens , spinners will come into play at a later stage but the slow turn may not be enough to deter batsmen on either side from taking on the challenge in a bid to dominate . Rival captains will also have to keep the dew factor in mind in this day-night encounter. With winter setting in , dew will play a part in the second half of the match . The use of anti-dew spray - a standard operating procedure these days - will no doubt help the cause of the team bowling last , but if the dew comes down heavily , bowlers will find it difficult to grip the ball firmly . With the series already in the pocket , the Indian team management chose to give the players the day off on Tuesday. Having arrived in the city late in the evening on Monday , Indian players preferred to rest tired limbs but Sri Lankan players - their reputation having taken a beating in the past week -chose to sweat it out . The Islanders trained hard for three hours in the afternoon , looking to iron out the flaws in a bid to salvage pride in the two remaining ODIs . The visitors laid special emphasis on fielding , an area that has let them down badly in the series.All the players went through catching and fielding drills which included throwing practice and aiming at a single stump. The team management also had the players taking sharp , low and high catches before herding them into the nets for a knocking session . India , of course , still have a lot to play for. Three wins on the trot have temporarily lifted them to the No. 1 spot in ICC ODI rankings , but they need to win the series by at least a 4-1 margin to displace South Africa at the top . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
