The spat and its after-effects on India The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 19 , 2014 , 10.43AM IST Indians lost focus after push-gate and went into terminal decline. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : As Indian cricket touches one of its lowest points , it 's time to look back on all that went wrong.. . Anderson-Jadeja spat : The series will be remembered for the Anderson-Jadeja spat , which threatened to snowball into a crisis after the team management charged the England pacer with 'pushing ' their all-rounder on the stairs at Trent Bridge. With the ICC appeals commissioner dismissing India 's charge as well as England 's counter for lack of credible evidence , the whole thing fizzled out , leaving plenty of red faces in both camps. A fuming India appeared to lose focus . In hindsight , it does appear that the Indian camp had been too hasty to press a Level 3 charge against Anderson without first making sure that there was video evidence to back their claim. According to TOI 's sources , the situation was clearly explained to the Indian manager before the Lord 's Test. He was also informed that a mutually acceptable compromise could be arrived at if he agreed to revise his charge against Anderson to a Level 2 offence. Indians were also assured Anderson would apologise . All at sea against seam and swing : It is clear the new generation of Indian batsmen have no clue how to play genuine swing bowling in helpful conditions. More than 50 % of the dismissals ( 51 ) were a result of edges that were either caught by the wicketkeeper or the slip fielders off pacers , suggesting that the batsmen did n't know where their off stump was while facing outswingers. They did n't fare much better against in-swingers either as England pacers claimed 74 of the 100 Indian wickets to fall . Top-order failure : In spite of Murali Vijay 's improved show , India 's opening woes continued. The best they managed was a 49-run stand between Vijay and Dhawan in the second innings on Trent Bridge 's lifeless surface. The tour exposed Pujara 's limitations as a front-foot player. Virat Kohli , too , paid for his reluctance to get on to his front foot and remain in a side-on position while facing up to high-quality swing. The fact that Ajinkya Rahane was dismissed thrice caught and bowled showed his propensity to play the ball early instead of allowing it to come to him . Selection issues : The choice of Stuart Binny as the fourth pacer at Trent Bridge and the Oval defied logic. Dhoni simply did not have enough confidence in Binny as a bowler , so he ended up bowling just 32 overs in three Tests. And he would have been better off resting Bhuvneshwar at the Oval and playing either Shami or Pankaj Singh . Poor captaincy : There has been no marked improvement in Dhoni 's leadership skills or game reading. Right from the time he allowed Anderson and Joe Root to register a world-record partnership of 198 runs for the 10th wicket at Trent Bridge , Dhoni missed a trick or two in every game after Lord 's . Butter-fingered fielders : With new faces replacing the old guard in the slip cordon , Indian bowlers lacked support. As many as 12 drops were recorded in that area including a couple by skipper Dhoni. The drop of the series was by Jadeja , who spilled Cook off Pankaj at third slip when he was on 15 . Inconsistent line and length : Indian pacers , individually and as a unit , failed to sustain pressure by sticking to a good line and length. A good ball or two was invariably followed by boundary balls that eased the pressure. Also , the short ball after it was overdone at Lord 's was not used effectively later on. The spinners were ineffective . Casual approach : The body language of Indian players was so poor , particularly in the last three matches , that it never appeared that they could match England , let alone beat them. The manner in which India collapsed in their last three innings clearly suggested a lack of will to fight . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
