Third Test : All set for the super Bowl The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 27 , 2014 , 06.15AM IST Cook and Dhoni , will thus approach it as " just another " Test match , far away from the hustle and bustle of London. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SOUTHAMPTON : England captain Alastair Cook and his Indian counterpart Mahendra Singh Dhoni would be pleased with the Ageas Bowl , the venue for third Test that begins here on Sunday. Like most modern-day cricketers , both Cook and Dhoni do not have much regard for history , and Hampshire Cricket 's new home ( then known as Rose Bowl ) since 2001 does n't have any . Hampshire , having left most of their heritage behind at the old County Ground , not far from here , are keen to establish 'The Bowl ' , which has hosted just one Test match ( in 2011 ) , as a regular Test centre. To Dhoni , who refused to attach any extra importance to India 's victory at Lord 's , the picturesque 'Bowl ' , represents an escape from tradition and history that is part and parcel of cricket in England . Ditto for Cook , who was lucky to escape the axe after the Test loss at Lord 's where discerning long-time members , draped in blazers and ties , shook their heads in collective disapproval at his pacers ' inability to make use of the green top on the opening day and his batsmen 's ineptitude in handling the short ball on final afternoon. Cook and Dhoni , will thus approach it as " just another " Test match , far away from the hustle and bustle of London. Located between the M27 motorway , on which glitzy cars whizz by in the blink of an eye , and the pristine Telegraph Woods , the 'Bowl ' resembles an amphitheatre as it sits smugly on the edge of a gently sloping hill . That is where the comparison ends. For neither side is in a position to relax , least of all England which could potentially end up losing back-to-back Test series in what has been a summer of discontent. And neither Dhoni , nor any of his mates have ever played a five-match series to carry that experience into this one . " I feel that in a five-match series , a 1-0 lead is not big. What is crucial is to pick the right team and move forward and for that we need to judge the nature of the pitch. We are focusing on all these areas , " he said . Reminded that his team had lost back-to-back matches in Mumbai and Kolkata after having thrashed England in Ahmedabad in the winter of 2012 , Dhoni talked about the importance of staying in the present. " With the amount of cricket that is being played , it just does not make sense to dwell in the past. If you ask me what is the date today , I would n't be able to tell you but I know for sure that the third Test begins tomorrow. That is all we need to know as we prepare for the game , " Dhoni said . With the curator choosing to keep the pitch covered all day to protect it from a scorching sun , Dhoni feels the heat can have a bearing on how much moisture remains on the playing surface when the coin goes up. Cook reckons there will be enough bounce in the surface to keep his bowlers interested. Dhoni kept everyone guessing on his playing XI . " I know there is a famous saying 'why need to fix something when it is not broken'. But you have to realise that others are trying to catch up with you when you are doing well. We will take a good look at the pitch before deciding on what our best combination is , " said Dhoni , hinting that with hot conditions likely to prevail on all five days of the match and the pitch certain to lose moisture quickly , he may not be averse to tinkering with the winning combination . If India make one change , it will be Rohit Sharma replacing Stuart Binny . England , on the other hand , are certain to hand Jos Buttler his maiden Test cap here . They may also end up playing either Chris Jordan or Chris Woakes in place of Ben Stokes , who is yet to score a run in the series . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
