Thirimanne blames sloppy fielding for loss to NZ The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 14 , 2015 , 02.15PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH ( New Zealand ) : Senior Sri Lanka batsman Lahiru Thirimanne blamed sloppy fielding for their 98-run hiding by New Zealand in the World Cup opener at Hagley Oval in Christchurch on Saturday . Despite yet another batting collapse -- nine wickets falling for 109 in a similar meltdown to their pre-tournament matches over the past month -- Thirimanne said tighter fielding would have made the difference . New Zealand , sent into bat first in cold , grey conditions , posted 331-6 and after Sri Lanka reached 124-1 in reply they folded to be all out for 233 . " We leaked 20-30 runs through poor fielding , " said Thirimanne. " It was a good wicket but 280-290 would have been chaseable on this ground. But we did n't field well and that cost us. " Kane Williamson was one beneficiary of botched fielding when dropped by wicketkeeper Kumar Sangakkara off the first ball he faced before going on to post 57 . " We have to make an extra effort as a team. Crucial catches might can cost you at the end of the game. " Thirimanne top scored for Sri Lanka with 65 but also felt he was partly to blame for not going on to make a century when his side needed someone to bat through the innings . The opener had compiled a 57-run stand with Sangakkara ( 39 ) when they and Mahela Jayawardene were removed in a 12-ball burst that saw Sri Lanka reduced from 124-1 to 124-4 . " At that stage the game was nicely set for us. I think my wicket and Kumar 's cost us the game. " Sri Lanka also suffered from key bowler Lasith Malinga returning from nearly six months sidelined with an ankle injury and being unable to stay on a consistent line and length , yielding 84 runs in his 10 overs . Despite chilly conditions , with temperatures around 13 degrees celsius for much of the game , Thirimanne said they could not blame the conditions . " We have been playing here two months now so we are used to these conditions. I do n't think it was a problem. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
