This Indian team will be a force in coming years : Hussey The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 17 , 2015 , 02.58PM IST Michael Hussey says that the Mahendra Singh Dhoni led Indian team is not among his semi-final picks for the ICC World Cup 2015. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : The current Indian cricket team may not have got a lot of appreciation in the past three months but former Australia left-hander Michael Hussey believes that this bunch will be a " force " to reckon with in the near future . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " India are an exciting team as I have loved watching them this summer. There is so much talent and I am sure they are going to be a force in years to come , " 39-year-old Hussey told PTI in an exclusive interview . However , for 'Mr Cricket ' , Mahendra Singh Dhoni and his boys are not among his semi-final picks . " My semi-final line-up will be Australia , New Zealand , South Africa and Sri Lanka , " Hussey , who was a part of victorious Australian world champion team of 2007 , said . Unlike others , Hussey feels that facing short-pitched stuff is not an issue for the Indian batsmen. " The current players in the Indian team are adept at handling the short ball really well. That is what I have seen in the Test series , " said Hussey . Someone , who has grown up playing at the WACA in Perth , Hussey is of the opinion that Indians would love batting on a pitch which offers good bounce . India are supposed to play two matches in Perth against United Arab Emirates and West Indies . " I would n't like them ( Indian team ) change ( tactics ) much. Just keep a clear mind and play with instinct. Once you get through the first 20 balls , it ( WACA ) is the best place to bat in the world because you can score so quickly , " said Hussey . When asked which Indian players caught his attention during the 'Australian Summer ' , Hussey said , " I was very impressed with Murali Vijay and Ajinkya Rahane 's performance ( in the Test series ) . " Hussey was , however , not ready to be drawn into comparing the two most exciting players in World cricket today -- Steve Smith and Virat Kohli . " It is hard for me to comment as I have not played under either of them. From far , they both seem like very positive people , " the veteran of 79 Tests and 185 ODIs , gave a non-committal answer . Quizzed about whether sub-continental teams like India and Sri Lanka will suffer on big Australian grounds during the mandatory batting Powerplay overs , Hussey did n't agree . " No , I disagree , there is more than one way to score heavily in the mandatory batting Powerplay overs. I agree batsmen , who are power-hitters are always helpful but you also need smart players , who play good shots into the gaps , " explained Hussey , who was known for his superb running between the wickets . Hussey added that it would be too early to predict the winner although his heart wants the Aussies to go all the way . " I feel Australia have a great chance but there are a lot of great teams , who can win the World Cup. It is too early to make a prediction although the teams which would be looking the best at the quarterfinal stage and has momentum will be hard to beat , " observed Hussey . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
