Time to strike right balance , admits skipper Dhoni The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 21 , 2015 , 09.11AM IST Dhoni 's formula for India to overcome their poor run is the three Rs : Recreation , relaxation and reflection. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE : Skipper MS Dhoni 's formula for India to overcome their poor run is the three Rs : Recreation , relaxation and reflection. Talking to the media after the team 's second defeat in the tri-series here at the Gabba , he said that when the team is not doing well , there is bound to be a lot of criticism. As a result , he said , there is a lot of pressure on players like Shikhar Dhawan who are out of form. This is the time to strike a right balance between work and rest. Dhoni feels the break of five days before the next game in Sydney gives the team opportunity to be away from cricket for a while and come back fresh. Excerpts.. . On batting line-up When we do n't do well , there is a lot of criticism. We should not forget it was the same batting line-up that won us the Champions Trophy in England.The same players put in a lot of effort in the Test series. It does n't really matter whether you have scored runs or not , the preparation is the same. A long Test series takes a lot out of you. When you score runs , you put in a lot of effort and when you do n't score runs , you actually put in even more effort than the guys who are scoring runs. It drains you out . Fatigue factor on a long tour So far it 's not there. But what is important is that before you see the symptoms , you cope. From now on , with a bit more gap between the ODIs and between the tri-series and the World Cup , we will have to use it very wisely. No doubt a four-and-a-half month tour is very long. Whatever said and done , staying away ( from home ) , we have seen cricketers feeling homesick within 15 days. Four-and-a-half months away from everything is tough. But at the same time we have the preparation in mind. We knew this was going to happen and we have planned for it. There have not been many cases of Indian cricketers saying " we are homesick " . We will have a bit more of team activities , we will have a bit more fun , maybe have paintball with the media people one day , and that will be fun . On bad starts Getting off to a good start is important. That does n't mean that the openers will always have to perform. We have to repose faith in batsmen like Shikhar Dhawan as they are important to our gameplan. He is not coming good at the moment. He should go out their and express himself like Adam Gilchrist used to do. Sometimes , it helps to get out of a bad patch . On Virat Kohli batting at No. 4 We have to make the middle order strong , the middle and the lower middle order. Jadeja was also not there . On Binny with the new ball We have to see the best possible way to use him. He is definitely someone who can swing the ball. We wanted to see what he can do with the new ball , because that opens up options. At least now , we know what he will do with the new ball . Axar Patel as lead spinner We have to give him games. Ashwin has had a lot of games outside the subcontinent. Axar will only get better and better. You will also see him improve his batting . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
