Tiwary ton deflates North Zone in Deodhar Trophy semis The author has posted comments on this article Dhananjay Roy , TNN | Dec 1 , 2014 , 09.17AM IST Manoj Tiwary ( right ) came in to bat after East Zone had been reduced to 33-2 in the 12th over and steadied the innings in the company of Shreevats Goswami ( 43 ) . ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Seven years ago , Mumbai beat Bengal at the Wankhede to win the Ranji Trophy title , in what turned out to be an absorbing contest ; thanks largely to the presence of Sachin Tendulkar , Sourav Ganguly , Zaheer Khan , Ajit Agarkar and Wasim Jaffer. But one player who caught everyone 's eye , thanks to a flamboyant 94 , was the young Manoj Tiwary . Tiwary was back at the Wankhede on Sunday , and although the 29-year-old did n't exactly roll back the years -- he is a more subdued version of his old self -- he displayed his combative skills once again. He struck a magnificent 151 ( 121 balls , 15x4 , 4x6 ) which helped East Zone beat North Zone by 52 runs in a semifinal of the Deodhar Trophy . Tiwary came in to bat after East had been reduced to 33-2 in the 12th over and steadied the innings in the company of Shreevats Goswami ( 43 ) . The duo put on 60 runs before spinner Amit Mishra accounted for Goswami , who strung together a fighting 43 . Thereafter , the East skipper took charge and paced his innings to near perfection , with North spinners being singled out for special treatment. Tiwary 's knock was even more remarkable given the fact that all of his partners , barring Goswami , failed to manage a score over 17 . Every time East looked like setting the pace , they lost a wicket. But this did n't distract the skipper , who went into overdrive after the 45th over and helped his side reach a competitive 273-8 . Indian selectors are keeping a keen eye on this tournament with the 2015 World Cup round the corner , but it remains to be seen whether this stellar knock - Tiwary 's second ton in three innings -- will have any impact on them . East 's bowlers backed up Tiwary 's effort brilliantly , and ensured they did n't lose the initiative after Ashok Dinda - who bowled three successive maidens at the start of the innings - and Veer Pratap Singh had given them an upper hand . While Dinda was expensive later in his innings , finishing with figures of 9-3-59-2 , Singh notched up respectable figures of 8-2-30-1. Yuvraj Singh , who led North in the absence of Harbhajan Singh after the offie took ill before the game , did himself no favours , managing only four runs in his 10-ball stay. Gurkeerat Singh top-scored for North with 83. They were eventually skittled out for 221 . Scores : East Zone 273 for 8 ( Manoj Tiwary 151 , Shreevats Goswami 43 ; Sandeep Sharma 3/49 ) bt North Zone 221 in 47.1 overs ( Mandeep Singh 40 , Gurkeerat Singh Mann 83 , Rishi Dhawan 38 ; S Lahiri 3/41 ) by 52 runs . Manoj hopes for India return Over the last eight years , Manoj Tiwary has been one of the most prolific batsmen in the Indian domestic circuit. But , fate has conspired to ensure that the charismatic batsman has spent far more time nursing injuries , than showcasing his skills in the country 's cricketing arenas . Nevertheless , Tiwary has not given up on his India dream. " I hope and believe I will get a longer run in the Indian team , " said Tiwary after his 151 helped East Zone beat North Zone in the Deodhar Trophy on Sunday . The selectors have been watching recent proceedings closely , but Tiwary claimed he is focusing only on his batting. " I do n't carry excess baggage now. I have matured and injuries have taught me how to stay composed. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
