Ton-up Sangakkara rallies Sri Lanka to 300/9 The author has posted comments on this article AFP | May 31 , 2014 , 07.34PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Kumar Sangakkara 's first century at Lord 's saw Sri Lanka bounce back in the fourth one-day international against England on Saturday . Just days after they 'd been shot out for 67 at Old Trafford , Sri Lanka made 300 for nine after being sent into bat . Sangakkara 's 112 -- his first hundred at Lord 's in any format -- was the centrepiece and together with Tillakaratne Dilshan ( 71 ) , he put on 172 for the second wicket . The duo had managed just 15 runs between them during the course of a 10-wicket defeat in Manchester on Wednesday that left England 2-1 up in the five-match series . This innings also represented a reversal of fortune for England paceman Chris Jordan , who took a career best five for 29 at Old Trafford . But his 10 overs , including eight wides , on a typically good Lord 's pitch cost 67 runs as he struggled to bowl the correct length . And Jordan 's two wickets Saturday only came during his final over as Sri Lanka hit out . Sangakkara 's 19th ODI century had an unpromising start as the 36-year-old took 13 balls to get off the mark . But such was the composure and experience of the left-hander , playing his 373rd match at this level , the number three batsman never looked flustered . Kusal Perera , in for the dropped Dinesh Chandimal , signalled Sri Lanka 's intention to put their Old Trafford nightmare behind them with two boundaries in the first over , from James Anderson . Perera also pulled Harry Gurney for six. But left-arm seamer Gurney , who took career-best figures of four for 55 in his fifth ODI , had his revenge when Perera ( 19 ) was late on a pull and Jordan held a diving slip catch . Sangakkara found his touch in the 18th over with three boundaries in successive balls from Joe Root . He drove the occasional off-spinner straight down the ground and next ball lofted him over mid-on before cover-driving him for a superb four . Dilshan fell when he was bowled leg stump by Anderson attempting a trademark 'Dilscoop ' shot . Sangakkara 's two off Jordan then saw him to a perfectly-paced 95-ball hundred with 13 fours . England finally saw the back of Sangakkara when off-spinner James Tredwell had him stumped by opposing wicketkeeper Jos Buttler . Sri Lanka captain Angelo Mathews then chipped in with a run-a-ball 30 before he holed out off Jordan . Gurney struck twice in the final over off the innings but , off the very last ball , Ajantha Mendis late cut him for four to take Sri Lanka to exactly 300 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
