Ton-up Yuvraj stars for Rest of the World against MCC The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Jul 5 , 2014 , 07.37PM IST Yuvraj pulled a Sachin Tendulkar long-hop for four to reach his hundred. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 LONDON : Yuvraj Singh 's century rescued the Rest of the World from a dramatic collapse as they recovered to 293 for seven against MCC in the Lord 's bicentenary match on Saturday . In a fixture celebrating the 200th anniversary of the current Lord 's ground , Pakistan off-spinner Saeed Ajmal took four wickets for five runs in 15 balls as the Rest of the World collapsed to 68 for five in 12 overs . But Indian left-hander Yuvraj 's blistering 132 off 134 balls , including six sixes and eight fours , turned the tide . Together with former England all-rounder Paul Collingwood ( 40 ) , he repaired the early damage with a sixth-wicket stand of 131 . Rest of the World captain Shane Warne , though , was ruled out of the remainder of the match when he suffered a suspected broken hand after being struck by an accidental beamer bowled by fast bowler Brett Lee , his former Australia team-mate , while batting towards the end of the innings . Dynamic openers Adam Gilchrist and Virender Sehwag got the Rest of the World off to a brisk start with a stand of 54 inside seven overs after Warne won the toss . Lee made the initial breakthrough by clean-bowling Sehwag for 22. Ajmal -- one of the active as opposed to retired first-class cricketers taking part in this match -- then took over on his way to final figures of four for 45 in 10 overs . Fresh from his 12-wicket haul in a County Championship match for Worcestershire last week , Ajmal had Gilchrist ( 29 ) smartly stumped by Nottinghamshire and ex-England wicketkeeper Chris Read . Tamim Iqbal was then then lbw before Kevin Pietersen , controversially axed by England after their 5-0 Ashes thrashing in Australia , misread Ajmal 's 'doosra ' and was stumped for 10 . Shahid Afridi , lingering on the back foot , was then bowled by his fellow- Pakistani 's quicker off-spin delivery . It was a fine display but , with many spectators having paid to watch the batsmen on both sides , MCC captain Sachin Tendulkar removed Ajmal from the attack after a remarkable spell of four wickets for nine runs in four overs . Yuvraj revived the innings by sweeping sixes off both part-time spinner Aaron Finch and New Zealand veteran left-armer Daniel Vettori , with MCC 's attack hampered by Pakistani seamer Umar Gul going off injured after bowling just two overs . Ajmal , however , could have had a wicket with his first ball back when Collingwood , on 29 , top-edged a slog-sweep only for substitute fielder Jordan Price to drop the seemingly simple catch . Next ball Yuvraj , on 68 , cut at Ajmal but Read could not hold the tough chance . However , Collingwood was eventually out when he cut hard at Lee , and Dravid , who holds the all-time Test record for most catches by an outfielder , made light of a difficult chance in the gully . Tendulkar -- the one player above all others they had come to see -- brought himself on to bowl his leg-spinners . But soon afterwards Yuvraj pulled a Tendulkar long-hop for four to reach his hundred . Yuvraj , now only considered by India for Twenty20 internationals , then stylishly lofted Lee for a huge six over midwicket before his innings ended when he holed out off Tendulkar . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
