Tri-series 2nd ODI : Australia beat India by 4 wickets The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 19 , 2015 , 08.57AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Despite putting up a much-improved performance , India were still left looking for their first win on the tour of Australia after losing to the hosts in their first game of the tri-series. They came pretty close to achieving it , but their effort fell short as the home team sneaked home with an over and four wickets to spare in a match that could have gone either way at the MCG on Sunday . The result may not have been the ideal start the Indians would have hoped for , but in the context of the upcoming World Cup , it surely was a step forward. The most notable takeaway was the return to form of Rohit Sharma and Suresh Raina and the late fightback by the bowlers . In fact , the visitors looked like heading towards a total around 300 which would have been hard for Australia to chase down. But Mitchell Starc ran through the line-up during a brilliant spell to restrict India to a manageable total. He now has 10 wickets from just two matches in the tri-series . Rohit Sharma , the holder of the highest ODI score , produced another top-notch innings ( 138 ) that helped India post a total of 268 which seemed a decent one. Australia should have won the game hands down as at one stage Aaron Finch and skipper Steve Smith were going great guns. But they allowed India to crawl back by recklessly giving away wickets. But James Faulkner , who is building a reputation of being a fine finisher , got a couple of boundaries in the penultimate over to clinch the issue for his team . The Aussies , who had rolled over England in the opening game in Sydney on Friday with a bonus point , are , despite two more matches to play , well placed for a spot in the February 1 final at Perth , leaving India and England to battle it out for the challenger 's spot. There is not much time for India to recover from today 's defeat as they travel to Brisbane on Monday and take on England at the Gabba on Tuesday . It was largely due to Sharma 's effort and his century partnership for the fourth wicket with Raina ( 51 ) that India recovered from early setbacks. The total could have been defended but the way the Indians bowled with the new balls and allowed the Aussies to get off to a rollicking start , put the side on the back foot. Both Mohammed Shami and Umesh Yadav bowled far too short early on to be effective . After the dismissal of David Warner , Flinch , continuing his recent good run and growing stature , looked too solid to be dislodged. But once he fell to an excellent Umesh Yadav delivery , things started to happen for India and that woke their fans from a stupor . However , India do have a few problems on hand. For one , Shikhar Dhawan is in miserable form. His early departure puts a lot of pressure on the other batsmen. The other is the balance of the team. With India opting to play with five regular bowlers , they are deprived of a decent batsman at number seven who can be a cushion in case of a collapse. In the absence of a genuine all-rounder , to have a fifth bowler or an extra batsman is the dilemma which is going to haunt them in the coming games . Especially , as the lower order has a tendency to collapse , like they fell today to Starc , the Man of the Match . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
