Tri-series 3rd ODI : Bonus point for England as Finn , Anderson destroy India The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 21 , 2015 , 09.27AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE : India flunked the English test so poorly that the day-night game at the Gabba finished even before the sun could set on this beautiful city. The pace duo of Steven Finn and James Anderson cleaned up the Indians in under 40 overs and the English batsmen got to the lowly target of 154 with 22.3 overs and nine wicket to spare. Like Australia , England too lodged a bonus point and now travel to Hobart to take on the hosts on Friday . India , on the other hand , have ample time to reflect on their con tinuous poor performances as they move to Sydney and await their Australia Day match against the hosts. India are without a point and have two tough games which they have to win handsomely to have any hope of qualifying for the February 1 final in Perth . After heavy overnight rains , it was a bit of surprise that skipper MS Dhoni opted to bat first , especially as they were without Rohit Sharma , who was rested due to a sore hamstring. The England bowlers excelled in helpful conditions , putting the Indians on the back foot straightaway. Once Anderson got rid of the struggling Shikhar Dhawan as early as the third over , it was an uphill battle . Anderson kept up the pressure at one end , while the lanky Finn made the most of the opportunities. The disconcerting bounce he generated flummoxed the batsmen so much that half the team was in the pavilion by the 19th over with very little on the board. Though Stuart Binny and Dhoni kept up the fight , it was too little too late . The form of the top-order batsmen is becoming an embarrassment and until they are able to pick their game up , India will continue to struggle. They have two more opportunities in the tri-series. The Sydney game against a rampaging Australia is not go ing to be easy , despite the expected presence of a large contingent of Indian fans. They then run into Finn and Anderson again on a bouncy track in Perth on Janu ary 30 in their last league match. The Indian think-tank has giv en Dhawan a long rope. But his early dismissal is putting a lot of pressure on the other batsmen . With Rohit unavailable for this match , it was important to get off a decent start to counter the sharp England attack. But with Ajinkya Rahane and and Virat Kohli too failing yet again and Suresh Raina committing hara-kiri by stepping out to the wily off-spinner Moeen Ali too early in his innings , it was all over for India when they slumped to 655 . The only bright spot for India was the batting of Stuart Binny , who would have impressed his father and national selector Roger , who is here with another selector Vikram Rathour. But both must be scratching their heads and wondering how to go about lifting the Indians from the dumps. Hopefully , things will change when team director Ravi Shastri joins the team in Sydney in a couple of days . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
