Tri-series : England bowl out India for 200 runs The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jan 30 , 2015 , 01.26PM IST Virat Kohli 's poor form with the bat continued. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 PERTH : India 's uninspiring batting show continued as they threw away a decent start to be all out for a meagre 200 against England in a virtual semifinal clash of the tri-series on Friday . Ajinkya Rahane ( 73 ) was the top-scorer of the innings but no other batsman crossed the 40-run mark as England 's pace battery initiated a batting collapse after India were placed comfortably at 83 for one . Steve Finn ( 3/36 ) took three wickets while Chris Woakes ( 2/47 ) , Stuart Broad ( 2/56 ) and spinner Moeen Ali ( 2/35 ) claimed two scalps each after inviting India to bat . Out-of-form Shikhar Dhawan ( 38 ) and Rahane got off to a slow start but they batted to a plan , rotating the strike to good effect and slowly the runs started coming , albeit in a tickle as the first 10 overs yielded only 34 runs . Thereafter Rahane looked in good touch , as the openers brought up their 50-run stand in the 14th over. Even Dhawan play some good shots after spending time at the crease , cutting and driving with much more ease . But he could n't go on , and edged one to Jos Buttler behind the stumps off Woakes in the 21st over. The scorecard read 83 for one at that time . Rahane got to his eighth ODI fifty in the 25th over and though he tried to play some expansive strokes , he realised the need to hold one end up soon enough . England tightened up their bowling and their good fielding started paying dividends. Virat Kohli ( 8 ) , who had come in to bat at number three , was the next to depart as he attempted a big shot off Ali only for Root to take a good running catch at long off . Ali returned for his next over and got rid of Suresh Raina ( 1 ) , who played a horrendous stroke. The left-hander danced down the track , going for a big shot , only to be caught at backward point . Ambati Rayudu ( 12 ) added 27 runs for the fourth wicket with Rahane but he never looked settled at the crease. He was out just before the batting powerplay was due , in the 35th over , caught behind off Broad . The big blow came when Rahane was dismissed in the very first powerplay over , trying to work Finn down to third man , but ended up caught behind . India also lost Stuart Binny ( 7 ) in the powerplay 's final over , caught brilliantly at first slip by a diving Ian Bell off Finn again. Those five overs yielded only 23 runs . Skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni ( 17 ) tried to stay at the wicket for the final 10 overs but he was finally out LBW to James Anderson ( 1-24 ) in the 43rd over . Ravindra Jadeja ( 5 ) played a rash stroke while Axar Patel ( 1 ) is still yet to come to terms with conditions in Australia as far as his batting is concerned . India only managed to cross the 150-mark in the 39th over and were struggling at 165/9 before a 35-run partnership for the final wicket between Mohammad Shami ( 25 ) and Mohit Sharma ( 7 ) helped gain a little respectability to the total . Shami threw his bat around and was the last to be dismissed in the 49th over , caught behind off a slower delivery by Woakes . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
