Tri-series : India-Australia ODI abandoned due to rain The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jan 26 , 2015 , 03.06PM IST Security staff stands in the rain around the wicket covers during the rain interrupted ODI between Australia and India in Sydney. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Rain played spoilsport as the tri-series match between India and Australia was abandoned with the two teams sharing the points , which left the visiting side in with a chance to make it to the final . After being put into bat , India were 69 for two after 16 overs when play was stopped due to rain at 5pm local time ( 11 : 30 IST ) and after a wait of three hours the umpires decided to call off the match . The two teams take two points each from Sunday 's match , which means that the final league game between India and England on January 30 at the WACA in Perth will be a straight knockout for a chance to play Australia in the final on February 1 at the same venue . Unbeaten Australia , who have 15 points after Sunday 's no result , have already qualified for the final while winless India and England have two and five points respectively. A team gets four points for a win . India had lost to Australia and England in their first-leg matches of the double round robin format tournament . The start of the match was delayed by 40 minutes due to drizzle since morning and there was first rain interruption at 3 : 30 pm local time ( 10 am IST ) when India were six for no loss in 2.4 overs . Play resumed with India losing the struggling Shikhar Dhawan for eight in the seventh over and then Ambati Rayudu for 23 in the 13th over . Dhawan was caught by Aaron Finch at slips off the bowling of Mitchell Starc as the Indian opener dabbed at a delivery that bounced a bit extra from a good length just outside the off-stump without any movement of his feet . Rayudu was dismissed off the bowling of Marsh with David Warner taking a sensational catch. The Indian batsman had charged and slashed at the ball , carving it high over the infield on the off side and Warner ran from the cover to take a well-judged catch . Rayudu faced 24 balls from which he hit two boundaries and one six . India were 62 for two when Rayudu was out and they slowed down , scoring just seven runs from the next 3.1 overs before rain stopped play . Ajinkya Rahane was batting on 28 while Virat Kohli was giving him company on three when rain stopped play. Rahane had faced 50 deliveries from which he hit two fours . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
