Tri-series : India lose to England to stay winless The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 31 , 2015 , 09.49AM IST Australia and England will now fight it out in Sunday 's final. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 PERTH : The only consolation India had in their final tri-series league match was that they fought hard till the end. But there is no reward for that . They needed to beat the English team which they could not , thus ending their campaign winless , leaving Australia and England to fight it out in Sunday 's final . India were left ruing missed opportunities. First , when their openers , for once , had given them a good start , the rest of the batting failed to capitalize on it . And second , when they had half the England line-up , chasing 201 on a difficult WACA pitch , back in the pavilion. But a missed run out by Ajinkya Rahane and a dropped catch by Suresh Raina , helped England to wriggle out of a tight situation . After being five down for 66 , man-of-the-match James Taylor and Jos Buttler with an excellent century partnership ensured England did not miss out on the opportunity to take on their arch rivals one more time before they clash again on the opening day of the World Cup in a big-ticket game in Melbourne on Valentine 's Day . India , on the other hand , were left to ponder what could have been. Of course , the team thinktank will count on some positives , like the opening partnership of 83 between Rahane and Shikhar Dhawan , who finally had a few runs under his belt , and the effort of Stuart Binny , who picked up three wickets to give India an outside chance . But the biggest problem India face is the lack of confidence and momentum going into the World Cup. They , of course , have a couple of warm-up games before they take on Pakistan at Adelaide Oval on February 15. They will be up against Australia and then Afghanistan to get into some sort of rhythm. But , at present , India as defending champions are nowhere near a settled outfit , with a lot of issues to be resolved . It was , however , heartening the way Dhawan and Rahane negotiate the quality England bowling on a difficult pitch. Credit is due to Dhawan who was willing to fight it out , biding his time and waiting for the right deliveries to score . Normally , he is not so circumspect , but having struggled to find any form , he eschewed extravagant shots. It was only when he got his eye in that he tried some ferocious square cuts. His innings of 38 had four such boundaries , as he hardly got a delivery pitched up to be able to drive. But just when he looked good for a long innings , he tried another cut but without moving his feet and paid the price . At the fall of the first wicket , in strode Kohli to everyone 's surprise as on the eve of the match Dhoni had categorically stated that he would continue to bat at number four . Probably the first good start prompted the team management to send him at the position he had batted so successfully in the Test series. But it did not help Kohli much as he fell to off-spinner Moeen Ali. The stroke he played was totally out of character as he stepped out and carelessly lifted the ball into the long-off 's hands . Kohli 's departure set off a collapse. Not for the first time , Suresh Raina fell to an off-spinner when a big innings was required. As wickets kept falling , there was genuine concern that India may fold up well under the 200-mark . If they were able to get to that total , it was due to a slambang last-wicket partnership of 35 between Mohit Sharma and Mohammed Shami , which was the second best of the innings. Shami took his chances and lashed out to collect a quick 25 from 18 deliveries , hitting three fours and a six . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
