Tri-series : Maxwell leads Australian win over England The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 1 , 2015 , 04.30PM IST The Australian team with the trophy after winning the tri-series final against England at the WACA in Perth. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 PERTH : A career-best performance by much-maligned all-rounder Glenn Maxwell inspired Australia to a crushing win over England in the one-day international tri-series final at the WACA Ground on Sunday . Maxwell took the highest score of 95 to help Australia recover from a poor start to make 278 for eight , winning by 112 runs . He then took four wickets and a fine catch as England crumbled in the run chase to be dismissed for just 166 in 39.1 overs . England , who will face Australia in the World Cup opener later this month , were never in the hunt after returning paceman Mitchell Johnson ( 3-27 ) claimed three quick wickets to have them 46 for four . He made a hat-trick after removing Moeen Ali for 26 and then England skipper Eoin Morgan , who was bowled without offering a shot from successive balls . Maxwell ( 4-46 ) also found himself on a hat-trick after removing Jos Buttler ( 17 ) and the hapless Chris Woakes , who had a match to forget , with successive deliveries . After being put in to bat by Morgan , the home side slumped for 60 for four against some good early bowling from James Anderson . However , a 141-run partnership between Maxwell and local favourite Mitchell Marsh turned the match . Maxwell was a marginal selection in Australia 's World Cup squad after his indifferent form over the past 12 months. But he showed his value with a typically inventive innings that combined bewildering and brilliant strokes . He and Marsh set a new WACA record for a fifth-wicket stand in a one-day international , and Maxwell looked set for his first one-day international hundred as he passed his previous best of 93 . However , another audacious stroke brought about his demise for 95 , caught behind by Buttler after top-edging an attempted pull shot off Stuart Broad ( 3-55 ) . Maxwell hit 15 fours off 98 balls . Marsh offered great support , displaying his powerful strokeplay in making 60 from 68 balls , with seven fours and one six , before being run out . The pair came together when Australia were in trouble after the loss of Steve Smith for 40 , stumped at the second attempt by Buttler off the bowling of Ali . Anderson ( 2-38 ) had earlier made two precious early breakthroughs , removing openers Aaron Finch ( 0 ) and Dave Warner ( 12 ) . Stand-in skipper George Bailey 's dry run with the bat continued when he made just two from 17 balls before popping up a catch to James Taylor at short-leg off the bowling of Broad . With much attention on whether regular captain Michael Clarke will be fit for the World Cup , Bailey faces a battle to retain his spot in Australia 's best 11 , with just 235 runs at 16.78 in his last 14 ODI innings . Australia 's total was boosted by a lusty unbeaten 50 -- off just 24 balls and including four sixes -- by James Faulkner in the dying overs . The right-hander took 22 runs off the last four balls of the 49th over by Chris Woakes , who went wicketless and conceded 89 runs from his 10 overs . Faulkner then pulled Steven Finn into the crowd at square leg to bring up his half-century from the last ball of the innings . However , Faulkner was forced from the field during his third over in the England innings , with what appeared to be a side injury . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
