Tri-series : Rain gifts India lifeline The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 27 , 2015 , 10.23AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Monday was a special day in both India and Australia and crowds came in hordes to watch the tri-series match between the two teams at the SCG. But the weather played spoilsport and ruined what could have been a memorable day . After India were made to bat first in gloomy conditions , whatever game was possible was held in fits and starts following innumerable stoppages for rain. But after the third intervention , when India were 692 in 16 overs , the rain took over and the game was finally called off at 8 pm local time . India , however , would not have been too disappointed by the abandonment as it has given them a lifeline in this tournament. The two points they got from this rain-ruined match gets them on to the points table in the tri-series and makes things a bit easier - India now simply have to defeat England in their last league match in Perth on January 30 to make it to the final . Had India lost Monday 's game , they would have had to improve their net-run rate substantially while beating England by a bonus point. That would have been a much difficult proposition. Now , though , the game in Perth has virtually become a semifinal . The winners will take on Australia in the final , also in Perth , on February 1 . From the morning it was overcast in Sydney and rain was forecast for the day .At one time there was doubt if the game would start at all , since it rained in the Moore Park area quite heavily in the morning. The weather let up in the afternoon for the match to make a 45-minute delayed start . If India were disappointed at all by the events of the day , it was that they could not test out Ishant Sharma and Ravindra Jadeja . Sharma was to play his first game since the third Test and Jadeja would have got his first game on the tour. The Indian think-tank is desperate to test their form and fitness . The two will now have to wait till the Perth game against England to finally step on to the field. For Monday 's game , India dropped Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Akshar Patel for Ishant and Jadeja. For Australia , David Warner and skipper George Bailey , who was suspended for slow over-rate for the Hobart match , returned to the squad. There was not much at stake for Australia as they are already in the final. Bailey , though , was planning to bat higher up the order to get among the runs. Warner , who has played just one good innings - a century against India in the opening game in Melbourne - too would have been eager to spend some time in the middle . In the 16 overs possible , struggling India opener Shikhar Dhawan again failed to make it count , falling cheaply to Mitchell Starc. For the third time in the tri-series , he was caught in the slips cordon without getting into double-figures. Ambati Rayudu played a neat little innings of 29 in which he clobbered a six , but failed to capitalize on the start he got . Virat Kohli had just joined Ajinkya Rahane in the middle when rain interrupted play for the third time. The only bright spot for India was Rahane 's batting , as he seemed quite secure in the middle despite the Australian pace bowlers getting a lot of bounce on a pitch that was supposed to help the spinners . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
