'Two-bench theory ' : Kohli 's way of countering Irfan and bounce The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 13 , 2015 , 02.19PM IST The idea behind the innovation is to get well equipped to counter the threat that 7 feet tall Pakistani paceman Mohammed Irfan could pose in the World Cup opener. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : ICC events in recent years have witnessed the Indian cricket team devising unique ways of training and it was no different this time around with the side employing a unique 'two-bench ' theory to counter the pace and bounce of Pakistani bowlers in its World Cup opener . During the last World T20 in Bangladesh , Indian bowlers were sending down deliveries to a 10-feet tall batting mannequin to hone their skills in channel bowling. This time the batsmen devised a unique throwdown session using two small benches . The idea behind the innovation is to get well equipped to counter the threat that 7 feet tall Pakistani paceman Mohammed Irfan could pose . After Virat Kohli practised at the main nets , he went to the corner of the St Peter 's Main Oval ground to get some throwdowns from team 's specialist Raghavendra . The throwdown expert was told to dig one delivery short , which Kohli would immediately move back and across to pull it effortlessly. It was followed by a fuller throwdown to counter the pitched-up delivery . Once he had taken sufficient throwdowns , Kohli and later Ajinkya Rahane went to the adjacent net where two small benches of around 20 inch in height were kept side by side . Assistant coach Sanjay Bangar stood on one of the benches with the throwdown equipment and then stepped on the other to throw balls from a good height . The logic behind such a practice is to get an idea of steep bounce that Irfan might generate from just short of good length . Bangar standing on the bench made him send down the deliveries from close to 10 feet ( keeping the huge arm action of throwdowns ) , which will be a feet more than the height from which Irfan is expected to deliver . It was Kohli , who spent maximum time at the nets and batted more than an hour in the two nets put together. Both Duncan Fletcher and team director Ravi Shastri kept a close eye as Kohli batted with all concentration in the world . The Indian practice session can be segregated into specific areas that players concentrated on . Skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni arrived an hour into the session as he had taken a morning flight from Melbourne to reach Adelaide . Dhoni batted mostly against slow bowlers like R Ashwin , Axar Patel , Ravindra Jadeja and some young boys from the South Australian High Performance Centre . The fielding session under R Sridhar also had its own unique touch to it . Sridhar made the trio of Ashwin , Mohammed Shami and Stuart Binny throw from the deep. The idea was to judge how quickly they reach the ball and to have a perfect pick-up and throw . " I want to see the power guys , " Sridhar shouted as Shami ran for the ball . Later Sridhar had a 'position specific session ' with Suresh Raina and Shikhar Dhawan . Raina is expected to field at either point or cover point. Accordingly an imaginary fielding set-up was done with Sridhar playing the cut shot - either square cut or back cut and Raina was diving on both sides to stop the balls. The same drill was repeated for Dhawan . The other interesting aspect was a long chat that Shastri had with Dhoni . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
