Two 'voters ' from Baroda add spice to BCCI elections The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Mar 1 , 2015 , 09.41AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : Call it the lull before the storm with daylong hush-hush meetings dominating the build-up to Monday 's Annual General Meeting of the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) . With just about everyone connected with Indian cricket administration out to extract his pound of flesh ( read moolah ) , every single vote will count when the hour of reckoning arrives and elections are called by the chairman of the house . Even as rival factions in the BCCI were busy protecting their flock and trying to engineer defections from the other camp , two significant developments emerged . Chastised by the Supreme Court , N Srinivasan has resigned himself to just casting his vote on behalf of the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association ( TNCA ) if there is an election at the AGM . But that has prompted the TNCA to send the name of one PS Raman as their second representative who will only take part in the deliberations , but not vote . Interesting , for sure , because BCCI meetings are not known to be brainstorming sessions. Raman is being seen as the voice of Srinivasan , who can only sit and watch . A bigger surprise came from the Baroda Cricket Association ( BCA ) which has send the names of two representatives - Samarjit Sinh Gaikwad and Rakesh Parikh . Both are claiming to have been " officially " cleared. According to the BCA 's constitution , the representative 's should be cleared by their managing committee . Parikh has produced a letter to this effect , but Gaikwad , who heads the BCA is claiming that he has legal right to represent the association as he heads it . Whoever , chairs the AGM on Monday will have to adjudicate who will attend and who will sit out . The funny thing is it not clear who will chair the AGM. Few senior members claimed that Shivlal Yadav will be in the chair as the interim president of the BCCI after the Supreme Court directed him last year to head the operations , but there is no precedent of an interim president chairing the AGM . If the BCCI rules are to be followed strictly , the house will have to 'elect ' a chairman to preside. It could be one of the vice-presidents or a senior member . Sourav 's Ganguly 's debut at the AGM has been delayed because of a technicality. He was supposed to be a nominee of the National Cricket Club , but the former India captain not being a member , the Club will be represented by KP Kajaria . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
