UAE may host Champions League T20 too The author has posted comments on this article Bringing Champions League to the UAE is at the back of BCCI minds. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 DUBAI : Knowing well in advance that the general elections in India would clash with the seventh edition of the IPL , the league 's interim head Sunil Gavaskar said on Monday that the BCCI had planned a shift in advance but could n't finalise the venue because they had to wait for the election dates . " It ( the shift ) was planned. There were three-four countries in consideration. Till the Election Commission announced the dates , we did n't know exactly what the dates would be , " Gavaskar said in an interaction on Monday . Sri Lanka ( because of the monsoons ) , Bangladesh ( because it had already held two major tournaments recently ) and South Africa ( because of the costs ) were all discussed in detail before BCCI decided in favour of the UAE. And coming to the Emirates has been nothing short of a memorable comeback for the BCCI . " You have a tournament like this without nothing ( no controversy ) happening. Surely UAE 's name will be free of the taint it has had in the past. UAE is trying to promote sport , not just cricket . " The authorities here are well aware of the fact that everything should be absolutely clean , " Gavaskar said , his colleagues adding that there 's been complete support from the administration here . Given the popularity of IPL and Indian cricketers here , it seems the BCCI has sensed the bright prospect of coming back to the Emirates where the expats are huge cricket fans . " Bringing Champions League ( CL ) here is at the back of our minds. We 'll start discussing it soon after the IPL is over. We have to take into account that CL is played in Sept-Oct when there are rains in some parts of India. So we have to ensure it does n't clash with the start of the Indian season , " Gavaskar said . There is also talk within BCCI about the feasibility of hosting India-Pakistan matches once again. " I 'm certain the success of IPL here will make BCCI look at it ( Indo-Pak cricket ) in a different way than in the past. I think there is a move afoot to have a series against Pakistan but I do n't have any details , " Gavaskar said . However , both Gavaskar and Raman clarified that the IPL will remain an India-based tournament , barring the year it has to be shifted partly or wholly. " The default will always be India because it is the 'Indian ' Premier League. So we must try to have it in India " Raman said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
