Uncertain times for Pakistan in World Cup The author has posted comments on this article Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Since the last World Cup , when the team finished third , Pakistan 's bowling line-up has been built around off-spinnner Saeed Ajmal . However , the suspensions handed out to him - and another offie , Mohammad Hafeez for illegal bowling action has meant Pakistan have had to rejig their plans with the ball going into this World Cup . That task has proved to be very difficult as they have struggled to put up a decent show in One-dayers. Incidentally , Pakistan , who have four semifinal appearances apart from the 1992 triumph Down Under , failed to win even one One-day International series in 2014 . With Ajmal out and Hafeez 's action still to be cleared , the Misbah-ul-Haq-led team is looking to leggies Yasir Shah and veteran Shahid Afridi to deliver . Shah has been Pakistan 's first proper leg-spinner since Danish Kaneria debuted all the way back in 2000. Shah has shown good control , is unfazed by being hit , and is above all patient . Pitches in Australia are likely to help leg-spinners considerably and they could prove to be a wicket-taking option. The way Yasir Shah and Shahid Afridi have been bowling in the last few months , they could make a difference by extracting some bounce from the Aussie pitches . Pakistan 's woes are compounded by the fact that they go into the tournament with an inexperienced pace attack. Injuries have robbed them of the services of veteran Umar Gul . Junaid Khan , who is part of the squad , too has some fitness worries. With right-arm pacer Ehsan Adil and left-arm pacer Wahab Riaz too having niggles , the Pakistan selectors have called up Sohail Tanvir as standby . However , lanky paceman Mohammad Irfan could be the X-factor. At seven feet one inch , Irfan can be a dangerous proposition for rival batsmen . The Pakistan batting has been fragile at best and inconsistent at worst. Pakistan , who are ranked seventh in the ICC ODI rankings , will need Hafeez , skipper Misbah-ul-Haq and Younis Khan to fire on all cylinders. Then they will need the fireworks from the likes of Afridi and Umar Akmal in the middle overs . Pakistan , after all , have the worse run-rate among top 10 teams in playing dot balls from over 11 to 40 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
