Under watchful eyes of Shastri , Ashwin gets his mojo back The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 25 , 2015 , 09.38AM IST It is apparent that Ravichandran Ashwin has worked hard on rectifying his action. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 PERTH : Ravichandran Ashwin seems calm and composed but beneath that tranquil demeanor he is as aggressive as a fast bowler. The Indian off-spinner has copped a lot of criticism for not being effective overseas. He was sidelined during the tri-series in Australia and speculation was rife that he has lost skipper MS Dhoni 's confidence . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 As it turns out , Ashwin was n't sidelined but cleverly kept under wraps as the team management chose to try out bowlers like Stuart Binny , Axar Patel and Ravindra Jadeja in the tri-nation event. Ashwin regularly sweated it out in the nets , even during match days , and continued to work on his bowling under the watchful eyes of team director Ravi Shastri , who was a no mean left-arm spinner himself. Shastri has been instrumental in instilling positive intent in the players , and that includes Ashwin . During practice sessions , the Team India director was seen guiding Ashwin , standing behind him at the nets. At Shastri 's behest , Ashwin has gone back to being a conventional off-spinner rather than trying to bowl a variety of deliveries that cost him his effectiveness. He used to wind up a lot in his bowling strides and lost his smooth run-up . It is apparent that Ashwin has worked hard on rectifying his action. He has also given up the tendency to bowl around the wicket , a legacy of too much T20 cricket. The Team India offie is back at his aggressive best , and has troubled rival batsmen in the World Cup. He tied down the Pakistan batsmen with three maiden overs in middle overs and put them under pressure. He also played a similar role against South Africa . Md Shami , Umesh Yadav and Mohit Sharma have given him a sound platform by keeping the batsmen in check. It was important to build on it and not let the batsmen get away , and that 's what Ashwin has done in both the games . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
