Virat Kohli 's Determination and Character Impresses Sunil Gavaskar Virat Kohli 's Determination and Character Impresses Sunil Gavaskar Virat Kohli scored 115 off 184 balls against Australia in Adelaide. His innings was punctuated with 12 fours . Last updated on Thursday , 11 December , 2014 19 : 45 IST Total Shares Virat Kohli celebrates his hundred in Adelaide . © AFP Former opener Sunil Gavaskar is all praise for Virat Kohli 's hundred on the third day of the first Test as he led India to 369 for five at stumps on day three against Australia at Adelaide. Gavaskar believes that Kohli 's character and determination came through with every shot he played. ( Highlights ) " Virat Kohli 's character came through in this innings. He showed a lot of determination after being hit by a bouncer. It was a tremendous innings on his part , " said Gavaskar speaking exclusively to NDTV. ( Match Report ) Kohli was hit by a Mitchell Johnson bouncer while facing his first ball of the series. Gavaskar admits he was worried for the batsman but said that this showed how a helmet can save a player , despite what happened in the case of Phillip Hughes . " I was a bit worried as the first ball can leave an impression on the batsman 's mind. But this shows you is that wearing a helmet can save you. What happened to Phillip Hughes was a freak accident and in this case Kohli did not suffer any serious injury due to his helmet. " Kohli joined an elite group of players by becoming only the fourth Indian to score a ton on his Test captaincy debut. Gavaskar , among the four in the list , feels that Kohli will only get better and and will make up for his failures when India tour England next time . " He is producing hundreds for India and will go on to get more big scores. Right now the sky is the limit for Virat Kohli , " said Gavaskar . Story first published on : Thursday , 11 December 2014 18 : 36 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
