Verma and co wants SC observer for BCCI elections The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 25 , 2015 , 05.47PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : IPL spot-fixing case petitioner Aditya Verma and politician Subodh Kant Sahay on Wednesday requested the Supreme Court to appoint Justice R M Lodha as observer for the BCCI elections on March 2 besides ensuring that the Annual General Meeting is held in Mumbai and not in Chennai . " I would request the honourable Supreme Court to direct the BCCI that its elections should be held under the observations of honourable Justice Lodha , who has been appointed to head the probe in the IPL spot fixing case. That is the only way to have free and fair elections , " said Sahay , who besides being a former MP , is also chief of Cricket Association of Jharkhand . As Verma sat next to the Congress politician in the media interaction here , Sahay said that Srinivasan has been disobeying all court directives since May 16 , 2014 . Most recently , Supreme Court said that Srinivasan should not have presided over the BCCI working committee on February 8 citing conflict of interest. The next hearing of the case is on Friday and Sahay hoped that Supreme Court will declare all decisions taken in the " illegal " meeting in Chennai null and void . " It is surprising to know to what extent Srinivasan went to cling to power in the BCCI. On December 9 , 2014 , Srinivasan counsel had to admit in the court that attending meeting was an " error " on his part. Yet , on February 8 , 2015 , Srinivasan presided over the meeting saying he was cleared by the court , " said Sahay . Sahay also explained why it was important to have the election at the BCCI headquarters in Mumbai and not in Chennai . " It is a norm to have the elections at the BCCI headquarters. Besides that , several members have told us privately that they could be intimated and stopped from speaking their mind by Srinivasan 's strongmen if the meeting is held in Chennai , " he said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
