Verma calls for Srinivasan 's recall from ICC chairman 's post The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 30 , 2015 , 07.58PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Cricket Association of Bihar secretary Aditya Verma on Monday shot off a letter to BCCI president Jagmohan Dalmiya and secretary Anurag Thakur , asking the duo to " recall the nomination " of N Srinivasan from the powerful post of ICC chairman . " During the pendency of the appeals against the Bombay high court orders , the Hon'ble Supreme Court constituted an independent probe panel under Justice Mukul Mudgal and directed N Srinivasan to step aside as president of BCCI by order dated 28-03-2014. Despite this order the BCCI nominated N Srinivasan to the post of chairman ICC since it was the turn of BCCI to have its nominee. The BCCI did not care about institutional integrity and had no hesitation in nominating a person who was asked by the Supreme Court to step down as BCCI president , " Verma , the petitioner in the IPL spot-fixing case , wrote in his letter . " Since the endorsement was prior to the election of the new office bearers of BCCI and now that new office bearers have taken charge it is requested that an urgent AGM of BCCI may be convened to recall the name Srinivasan 's name from the post of ICC chairman to maintain institutional integrity and demonstrate respect which BCCI holds for the Hon'ble Supreme court. " The letter further said that in the BCCI AGM on March 2 , even before the election of the office bearers , the meeting endorsed the nomination of Srinivasan as BCCIs nominee for the post of ICC chairman . " Srinivasan was present when all the agenda items including endorsement of his nomination as chairman of ICC were being discussed. The endorsement of Srinivasan as ICC chairman in the AGM is totally unacceptable. When the Hon'ble Supreme Court found that Srinivasan is incompetent to contest the election for any post it is highly objectionable that the AGM chose to endorse N Srinivasan 's nomination , " the letter said . " The AGM of BCCI grievously erred in endorsing Srinivasan nomination to the post of ICC chairman when it had a good opportunity to recall his nomination in keeping with the spirit of the Hon'ble Supreme Court judgement dated 22-01-2015 , and when the Supreme Court appointed Hon'ble Justice Lodha Committee is examining the quantum of punishment to be awarded to his son-in-law and his team Chennai Super Kings in connection with the IPL match-fixing scam. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
