Veteran pacer Ashish Nehra in frame for ODI selection The author has posted comments on this article Indranil Basu & Arani Basu , TNN | Oct 16 , 2014 , 09.38AM IST Ashish Nehra seems to be back in the scheme of things for the 2015 World Cup. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Veteran Delhi pacer Ashish Nehra seems to be back in the scheme of things for the 2015 World Cup. With a senior pace bowler lacking in the current set-up , sources said that the team was looking at someone like Nehra who has the experience of playing big-ticket events . According to sources , the team management thinks the team needed a seasoned pro to guide the pace pack , especially in pressure situations. And that 's why one saw Ishant Sharma drafted back into the ODI squad for the ongoing series against the West Indies. " The bowling lacks experience. That 's why Ishant has been brought back. They are looking out for options , " the source informed TOI . " Considering his current form , Nehra , who has n't played for India since 2011 World Cup , is a good bet for the role of the senior pacer. The only issue is his fitness. It remains to be seen if he can bowl ten overs with the same kind of momentum he did during recent T20 matches " a BCCI official said. Nehra has a good chance of getting picked for the upcoming Australian tour which precedes the World Cup , if he proves that he could withstand the grind of ODI cricket . Nehra , on his part , is not rushing to prove anything to anyone. He is skipping the Duleep Trophy , the domestic season opener. However , he is likely to lead Delhi 's attack in the Ranji Trophy. " We are taking it for granted that he would be in the squad for Ranji Trophy , " a senior DDCA official said. Nehra was impressive in the recent Champions League T20 , grabbing 10 wickets from five matches for Chennai Super Kings. He also showed that he could slip in those yorkers under pressure situations . At the Kotla on Wednesday , Nehra , practising with the Delhi team , was the centre of attraction even though some members of the Indian ODI team were at the ground for optional practice. It was the duel between Nehra and Gautam Gambhir in the nets which proved to be most enthralling . " He is still the best. Look at the kind of pace he generates , " a Delhi cricketer gushed . The buzz in Delhi cricket is that Nehra could still bowl at 140 kmhr because of the training he has been putting in these days . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
