Video footage could land Anderson in the dock The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Aug 1 , 2014 , 06.42AM IST If the footage proves England pacer James Anderson 's role in inciting Ravindra Jadeja , the pacer may not play any further role in the series. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : England pacer James Anderson could be banned for at least two Tests at his hearing on Friday after the Indian cricket board ( BCCI ) procured incriminating video evidence against the player , according to reports . The footage is of the alleged face-off between Ravindra Jadeja and Anderson during the first Test in Trent Bridge , following which Jadeja was charged with a Level 1 offence which cost him 50 % of his match fee. The BCCI subsequently appealed against the decision . If the footage proves Anderson 's role in inciting Jadeja , the pacer may not play any further role in the series . According to reports , the BCCI had asked for the evidence before the Jadeja hearing itself but was informed that it was unavailable. India are pressing for a Level 3 charge against Anderson for " pushing " and " abusing " Jadeja . India skipper MS Dhoni , who has publicly voiced his displeasure with the outcome of the Jadeja hearing - presided by match referee David Boon - will be one of the witnesses at Anderson 's hearing on Friday . Srinivasan did not want India to appeal ? ICC chairman N Srinivasan did not want MS Dhoni to appeal against the penalty on Ravindra Jadeja , according to a report by a TV channel. The India skipper , however , did not heed the advice and " put his foot down " , according to the report. Dhoni , on his part , told the media in Southampton that Jadeja " did nothing wrong " and the penalty was " hurtful " . However , contrary reports have emerged in the British media of Jadeja reacting violently and even raising his bat to strike Anderson. According to a website , England 's Ben Stokes and Matt Prior suggested to Boon during the Jadeja hearing that the Indian player " turned threateningly towards Anderson and the England fast bowler acted in self defence. " Dhoni maintained Jadeja kept his bat tucked under his arm. Stokes claimed Jadeja pushed Anderson first . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
