Vijay , Kohli lead Indian run chase against Australia The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Dec 13 , 2014 , 11.12AM IST Vijay survived a big shout on 24 for leg before wicket going back on his stumps off Lyon. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : The Australians grabbed two wickets before lunch but were being resisted by opener Murali Vijay and skipper Virat Kohli , who batted through the entire middle session in an unbroken 148-run stand in the first Adelaide Test on Saturday . Faced with a 364 winning target off a minimum 98 overs after Australia declared on their overnight score of 290 for five , the tourists were 205 for two at tea . Vijay was unbeaten on 85 with Kohli not out 82 and doing it comfortably . No team has scored more than 315 to win a Test match at the Adelaide Oval since Australia overhauled England at the ground in 1902 . In hot sunny conditions , the Indians lost the wickets of Shikhar Dhawan and Cheteshwar Pujara in the extended morning session . Dhawan appeared to get a bad call by umpire Ian Gould when he was given out caught behind off a Mitchell Johnson bouncer for nine in the day 's fifth over . Replays indicated that the ball came off Dhawan 's shoulder and not glove as wicketkeeper Brad Haddin took an athletic catch down the leg-side . Vijay survived a big shout on 24 for leg before wicket going back on his stumps off Lyon . Umpire Marais Erasmus turned down Lyon 's vociferous appeal and replays showed the ball would have hit the stumps . Pujara was done by one that Lyon straightened and he edged to Haddin for 21 in the 20th over leaving the tourists at 57 for two . Skipper Michael Clarke suffered another hamstring injury setback as India stayed on course for a memorable come-from-behind win . Clarke pulled up sharply while fielding and left the field with the team physio , looking in a bad way with a right hamstring injury . The Australian captain hobbled from the ground amid initial fears he would not be fit to lead his country in the second Test , getting underway in Brisbane on Wednesday . A team spokesperson said Clarke had left the ground for scans to assess the injury. He appeared to have difficulty getting into the car that took him to the hospital . Clarke suffered a recurrence of his long-term back injury while batting on Tuesday 's opening day which forced him to retire hurt . He had injections to soothe spasms in his back and returned to the crease the next day to complete a century . Clarke 's latest setback continued Australia 's frustration to push on for victory on the final day of the first Adelaide Test . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
