Village overjoyed as Gurinder started career for Australia against India The author has posted comments on this article Neel Kamal , TNN | Jan 18 , 2015 , 07.11PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 FARIDKOT : The small and non descript village Hardialeana in the district is overjoyed over the no mean achievement of the son of the soil. The residents of the village termed on Sunday as the golden lettered day in the history of the village when village boy Gurinder Sandhu became part of the Australian Cricket Team and started his international cricket career as fast bowler by playing one day international ( ODI ) against India . He started the career with taking a wicket in his first international match. Twenty One years old Gurinder though was born in Australia but his family comes from the small village. The relatives of Gurinder Sandhu on Sunday held a prayer in the village Gurdwara and sent best wishes to the family in Australia. Gurinder ' father Iqbal Singh Sandhu had migrated to Australia in 1980 . The elated villagers converged at the residence of Gurinder ' uncle ( Chacha ) Charanjit Singh Sadhu. The family distributed sweets and score of villagers witnessed the match his residence and history in the making for the village . Charanjit Singh Sandhu said the residents of Gurinder ' native village are happy that the lad from the village has rose to such dizzying heights that he has become member of Australian Cricket team due to sheer hard work. The village is proud of his achievement and have decided to celebrate the occasion . He said " we have no regret that my nephew has made his debut against birth country of his parents but are happy that he made it to the national team of another country " . Gurinder ' friend Kulwinder Sandhu said " he was determined to make it big. Around 5 years ago when Gurinder had come to India we together used to play cricket. Seeing him the way he was bowling there was not an iota of doubt that one day he will play big time cricket and today that day arrived " . Another village Mohinder Singh said the villagers are very happy that Gurinder has started international career in cricket with a wicket . Over six feet tall Gurinder earlier had become the first cricket of Indian origin to represent Australia in the under-19 team in 2012. Gurinder ' brother Harman also plays cricket and is member of New South Wales cricket team in Australia . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
