The author has posted comments on this article Avijit Ghosh , TNN | Dec 28 , 2014 , 09.47AM IST India 's Virat Kohli celebrates his century during the third day of the first Test against Australia at the Adelaide Oval on December 11 , 2014. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 His batting and captaincy are on fire , yet he is chilled enough to blow his girlfriend a kiss from the pitch and spell his fashion label Wrogn. Both on the field and off , Virat Kohli 's got game , and that 's why he scores It first happened in 1960 , before a packed Brabourne Stadium in Bombay. Abbas Ali Baig had just reached a Test half-century against Australia when an audacious Ms Bhatt ran to the pitch and rewarded the dapper batsman with a kiss before gasping spectators. Since that cheeky act , cricketers in India have often been objects of PDA . But last month , when the Kiss of Love protests rocked the nation , Virat Kohli added a new dimension to this rolling playbook of love. The Delhi batsman sent a flying kiss off his bat to actor-girlfriend Anushka Sharma sitting in the VIP gallery during an ODI match against Sri Lanka at Hyderabad. No Indian cricketer had so openly demonstrated his ardour before though Pataudi , Ravi Shastri and Mohammad Azharuddin all had famous girlfriends. But the 26-year-old cricketer was n't just breaking norms ; in the same innings , he reached 6,000 runs in just 136 ODI innings , a new world record . The gesture underlined two traits. One , a willing ness to change and evolve. Not long ago , the Delhi batter could only express elation with crude references to mothers and sisters. Second , he seemed to be a firm believer in what Frank Sinatra sang an era ago , " I did it my way. " In a sense , Kohli encapsulates the best and brightest of a generation bred in post-liberalization India : tattooed and teeming with attitude but setting and achieving the highest of benchmarks . On the last day of the Adelaide Test , when Australia set India a target of 363 , that 's exactly what was on display. Most captains would have plumped for a draw. But Kohli , a stand-in skipper , aimed for Mission Impossible. Revelling under pressure , he led the way with an assault that had India agog. His career-best 141 took his cumulative runs in the match to 256 , eclipsing the previous highest by a Test captain on debut : Kiwi Graham Dowling 's 244 against India in 1967-68. The Delhi batter had smashed 115 in the first innings after being struck on the helmet by paceman Mitchell Johnson. India lost. But as the dominant tweeple sentiment suggested , it was more satisfying than a draw. " A draw was never an option , " he said later . 13 tons in successful chases ; the second highest by any batsman in ODIs , next only to Sachin 's 14 It was widely believed that Kohli was born to lead , and Adelaide showed his time has come. 2015 could well witness the end of the Dhoni regime and mark the beginning of the Kohli era . On Twitter , he is already India 's sportsman No 1. With 4.92 million followers , he has crossed Sachin 's 4.88. Kohli seems to have a natural aptitude for social media , often mixing business with pleasure : wishing happy birthday to friend and brother Gabbar ( Shikhar Dhawan ) , plugging RCB boss Sid Mallya 's asinine video or promoting Wrogn , his breakaway youth fashion brand irreverently spelt wrongly. His Facebook page has a staggering 19.1 million likes . Which is why in its annual list for 2014 , London-based magazine SportsPro called Kohli the second most marketable sportsperson in the world . He is already enjoying the perks of being a star player and his ads often trade on his bad boy cool quotient. He is the rakish Lothario with love marks on his neck ( Fastrack ) , the dude asking for a girl 's phone number ( Celkon mobile ) or just the guy who eyes the girl at the gym ( Axe ) . For Kohli , the reel and real have almost coalesced. Two English women cricketers have been hitting on him via Twitter and in 2012 , in Hobart , Tasmania , a female fan put up a poster saying , " Offer still stands Kohli , my place tonight. " He confessed later on TV , 'I did n't take up the offer " . Since his international debut in 2008 , what has separated Kohli from the rest is his ability to win matches almost singlehandedly in ODIs and T20s. His approach is goal-oriented. For him , batting is about getting your country beyond the line , preferably without any last-over heroics. He is yet to master the moving ball but his wristwork , arguably the finest in India since VVS , has been key to his 13 tons in winning chases ; second only to Tendulkar 's 14. That he has excelled in all three formats underlines his ability to adapt. Over the years , almost everyone in world cricket has endorsed him. But the finest validation came from Sir Vivian Richards , who said , " I love his aggression and serious passion. He reminds me of myself. " At 17 , Kohli came out to bat in a Ranji game against Karnataka the day after his father passed away. He took his team to safety with a 90 before attending the funeral. He has said , " If you are dedicated to something , nothing should distract you. Whenever I get stuck in a bad situation , I still think of that day , my most difficult moment , to get out of it. " Virat Kohli has been rightly ordained as the future of Indian cricket. And the future is now . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
