David Warner Fights and Kisses His Way to Hundred No. 2 in Adelaide David Warner Fights and Kisses His Way to Hundred No. 2 in Adelaide David Warner smashed his second hundred of the match as Australia took control of the opening Test against India at the Adelaide Oval . Last updated on Friday , 12 December , 2014 12 : 57 IST Total Shares Vijay dropped Warner when he was on 89 . © AFP David Warner was among the most affected of Australian cricketers after Phillip Hughes ' death but he took the lead to derail India in the opening Test in Adelaide , slamming his second hundred of the match and 11th of his career. This was Warner 's sixth hundred of the year , more than any other batsman. ( Warner , Aaron in Sledge Fest ) The powerful left-hander raced to his century off 154 balls as Australia ( 195/3 ) took a daunting 268-run run lead against India in the second innings . Warner 's 145 in the first innings had helped Australia with a solid foundation on the first day of the Test. He battled raw emotions and the pain of losing a close friend and long-time teammate to show why he is today the most dangerous opening batsman in world cricket. ( Abbott Bounces Back From Hughes Tragedy to Take Career-Best Figures ) Warner , who now has over 1000 runs in 2014 from just seven Tests , had scored two hundreds in the same match once before , against South Africa earlier this year . Warner has 11 hundreds in 33 matches and is now in elite company. The only other Australians who have notched 10 or more centuries after 33 Tests were members of Donald Bradman 's 1948 'Invincibles ' Australian team : Bradman himself ( 18 hundreds ) , Neil Harvey ( 12 ) and Arthur Morris ( 10 ) . It was Warner 's day right from the start as he started taking the Indian bowlers to the cleaners. He was bowled by Varun Aaron on 66 but TV replays showed the bowler had overstepped. Warner got involved in a heated exchange with India 's fielders soon after but regained his composure and concentration to hammer yet another Test match century. He had another reprieve on 89 when Murali Vijay dropped a simple catch . Story first published on : Friday , 12 December 2014 11 : 19 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
