Virat Kohli goes from tormentor to protector The author has posted comments on this article Arani Basu , TNN | Feb 3 , 2015 , 09.00AM IST Off-colour middle-order forces Virat to bat at No. 4. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Virat Kohli 's game tells us that he wants to be in control , all the time. But his emergence as India 's premier batsman has also brought along the burden of protecting and carrying along the presently off-colour Indian batting line-up . A part of that job has demanded giving up his much relished No. 3 position , ahead of the World Cup . " He always wants to bat at No. 3. But the form of the middle-order batsmen is n't great and has got him worried. He is concerned about what would happen if he gets out early coming at No. 3. If Suresh Raina finds his touch and provides assurance , he might come up the order , " sources close to the Indian team management told TOI . The failure of the middle order to thrive during the recent tri-series in Australia is the reason , according to the team management , for pushing him down the order. The last match against England in Perth on Friday adds substance to the thought . His coach-cum-mentor Rajkumar Sharma says that the shift in the batting order has n't affected Virat. " That 's the job he has been doing as a senior batsman. He likes to help the other batsmen along. And he only believes in winning matches. If the team thinks his batting position is crucial to its chances , he is more than happy to take up the role , " Rajkumar told TOI . " He feels like a grown-up when someone comes up for advice. That 's the difference between the 2011 World Cup and now. He was childish then but has matured a bit now , " he quipped . Virat 's roadmap to World Cup 2015 was chalked out over a year ago , be it preparing to take on the fast , short deliveries or adding edge to his ability to smother spinners . " He realised that if he gets out fending off a Dale Steyn or a Morne Morkel delivery in South Africa or a Mitchell Johnson delivery in Australia , it allowed the opposition to bamboozle the rest of the batsmen. So he made sure that he pulled all of them in front of the wicket at the first given opportunity. That would send a strong signal , " Rajkumar said . Thus began the preparation to attack the Australians , leaving behind the painful memories of facing James Anderson in England. Rajkumar added : " Virat underwent a lot of counselling after the England tour. I saw him flustered for the first time. The dip in form coincided with unpleasant things being said about his personal life. He was very annoyed and disturbed. But he stayed calm and went to Sachin Tendulkar to get back in the right frame of mind. " The academy in West Delhi where Virat learnt his art , sports a smattering of grass patches , has an astro-turf , a greenish as well as a rough pitch. Each one of the surfaces figured in some stage of his preparation. He decided to harness his spin game on the dry and rough pitch immediately after the England series leading to the twin home series against West Indies and Sri Lanka. It paid off when he , uncharacteristically , brought out the sweep against Nathan Lyon on wearing pitches in Australia . If it was Ishant Sharma to work with Virat before the South African tour in December 2013 , Virat got local bowlers to bowl from about 17 yards on the astro-turf before he flew down to Australia. A close look at Virat 's driving over the last year and a half confirms that there is a method to his madness. The booming follow-through off fast bowlers has been replaced by the solid punches. The reason : it allows him to stay in control . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
