Virat Kohli hits classy ton as India post 330/6 The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Oct 17 , 2014 , 07.05PM IST This is Kohli 's first hundred across formats since February. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 DHARAMSALA : Notching up a sublime century , Virat Kohli reassured that he is back in form to help India post 330 for six against the West Indies in the fourth and final one-day international on Friday . Kohli ( 127 ) along with Suresh Raina ( 71 ) and opener Ajinkya Rahane ( 68 ) made batting look easy on a pitch that was expected to favour fast bowlers. It was Kohli 's first hundred across formats since February , following which he experienced the first lean patch of his career . The West Indies pace attack was decent but overall the unit put up a lacklustre effort on the field after captain Dwayne Bravo decided to field . It would anyway have been too much to expect from the team , which knew before the match that it wo n't be playing the remainder of the series including the next ODI in Kolkata , a T20 International and three Test matches . The unwanted news of a pullout however had not reached the crowd , who cheered vociferously for every run scored by the Indians . Openers Shikhar Dhawan ( 38 ) and Rahane laid the foundation for a big score with a 70-run stand. The West Indies players expectedly found it tough to give their 100 percent to the game and the hosts took full advantage of that . Kohli and Rahane got together after Dhawan got caught in the deep while attempting a pull shot one time too many. The stylish duo added 72 runs to the score before Rahane was adjudged lbw on a missed sweep shot off left-arm spinner Sulieman Benn ( 1-30 ) . Kohli , who showed a glimpse of his brilliance during his fighting 62 in the last match in Delhi , batted much more fluently today. He treated the fans to his trademark shots , from blazing square cuts , wristy flicks to smashing pacers for sixes on front foot . He took a particular liking to speedster Jerome Taylor , spanking him for two maximums on either side of the sightscreen . Overall , Kohli hammered 13 fours to go with his three sixes off Taylor , the last one sending the ball out of the park. In an anti-climax , he reached his hundred with an overthrow and was run out off the last ball of the innings . Kohli 's 138-run partnership with Raina was instrumental in India making a huge score. Needless to say , the negative body language of the West Indies ' players made their task easier . The fielding team dropped catches with regularity , giving a life each to Kohli , Mahendra Singh Dhoni ( 6 ) and Ravindra Jadeja ( 2 ) . Taylor proved to be their most expensive bowler , leaking 77 runs in nine overs . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
