Virat Kohli humbled by 'surreal ' popularity The author has posted comments on this article Rohan Puri , TNN | Nov 18 , 2014 , 10.22AM IST Virat Kohli at the launch of website , logo and 3D animated character in Gurgaon on Monday. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Something surely does seem odd when Virat Kohli does not come in to bat at No. 3. After all , the man has set a number of records batting at No. 3 and made that position his own . However , in the last six of his eight ODIs , Kohli has come in to bat at No. 4 where he has amassed 391 runs at an average of 78.2 scoring three fifties and a ton. So could this be a sign of things to come ? " The team and I had certain plans so we decided it 's best if I play at No. 4. In the future , it will depend on the situation as to where the team wants me to play. I am learning to play at all positions. It has to be in the best interest of the team. And we are very happy with how we finished the series , " Kohli said about the ODI series against Sri Lanka which Indian won 5-0 with the final victory coming at Ranchi on Sunday . Kohli was in the Capital on Monday for the launch of his website , logo and digital character . Kohli , the stand-in captain in place of the injured MS Dhoni , scored a match-winning 139 not out on Sunday night as he eked out his 14th victory as captain out of 17 games . Speaking on the pressures of the game , he said , " Everyone has his or her own way of handling pressure. It depends on how you view it. Even the smallest of things and situations can put pressure on you and if you view things normally , then even the toughest situations wo n't affect you. Obviously such things do cross your mind. You have set certain standards for yourself and you would like to meet them. Popularity and records are the by-products of your hard work and dedication. My main aim is to give my best. You can not target records or popularity. All you can do is play to the best of your abilities and then people will connect with you because of your honesty and dedication. " Asked if the new ODI rules , shorter boundaries and field restrictions have made life easier for the batsmen , he said , " There is a flipside to it as well. It 's only an advantage in India and in the subcontinent. There is a reason why those rules have been put in to place. In Australia and South Africa it 's a different ball game altogether. Over here it becomes very easy but outside the subcontinent it 's more difficult than it used to be because you ca n't rotate the strike that much. In India , it is a bit of an advantage for the batsmen but in conditions that are equal for batters and bowlers , it 's an even contest. Maybe the bowlers would have an upper-hand with the new restrictions. " India tour Australia next month where they play four Tests and an ODI tri-series involving England . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
