Virat Kohli stands tall but India slump to defeat against Australia The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Dec 13 , 2014 , 01.30PM IST Kohli became only the second player in Test history to score a century in both innings on his debut as captain. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : India virtually snatched defeat from the jaws of victory , slumping to an agonising 48-run loss in the pulsating first Test against Australia despite captain Virat Kohli 's gallant second successive hundred in the match on Saturday . Chasing a competitive target of 364 , India were cruising along comfortably at 242/2 before the hosts staged a dramatic comeback to grab eight wickets for 73 runs and take a 1-0 lead in the four-match series . The Indians folded for 315 in 87.1 overs with Kohli ( 141 ) and Murali Vijay ( 99 ) being the only ones to notch up noteworthy knocks even as seven batsmen departed without touching the double digit mark . Kohli became only the second player in Test history to score a century in both innings on his debut as captain but the stupendous feat was completely overshadowed by the shockingly inept performance by his other batting colleagues , who seemed bent on committing harakiri . Off-spinner Nathan Lyon was the pick of the Australian bowler as he exploited the rough on the track to good effect to finish with figures for 7/152 for an overall haul of 12 wickets in the match. Lyon was adjudged Man of the Match for his superlative effort . The result will come as a huge disappointment for the Indians , who virtually lost the match in the very last session when eight wickets fell in quick succession . Kohli was left to rue yet another of India 's infamous batting collapses after putting the team in a rather comfortable position right up till the tea session with a career-best knock. He was dismissed by Lyon . For Kohli , it was his eighth career hundred even though he was left a disappointed man on his debut as captain. He got good support from Murali Vijay who was unlucky , missing out on what could have been his fifth Test hundred by just one run . Kohli 's knock of 141 runs came off 175 balls and was laced with 16 fours and a six adding to his first-innings ' knock of 115 runs . Lyon picked up the best figures for a spinner against India in Australia with a match-haul of 12-286 to go with his 5-134 in his first innings . This was after Australia had declared at their overnight score of 290/5. They had scored 517/7d in their first innings to which India had replied with 444 runs in their first attempt . Lyon was ably supported by Mitchell Johnson ( 2-45 ) and Ryan Harris ( 1-49 ) . Peter Siddle ( 0-21 ) , Shane Watson ( 0-6 ) , Mitchell Marsh ( 0-11 ) and Steve Smith ( 0-18 ) were the other bowlers used . Kohli became the second Indian batsman after Vijay Hazare to score two hundreds ( 116 and 148 in 1947-48 ) in a Test at Adelaide . Among Indian batsmen , he became the fourth after Hazare , Sunil Gavaskar ( thrice ) and Rahul Dravid ( twice ) to achieve this feat. Another record was broken as Lyon became the first Australian spinner to take 10 wickets in a Test against India at home. That record was previously held by Ian Johnson ( 8-94 at Melbourne ) in 1947-48 . The last session began with Kohli and Vijay raising visions of an Indian win. They carried on from where they left off before the break , attacking the spinner and playing cautiously against the pacers. In the 69th over of the innings , Kohli reached his eighth Test hundred off 135 balls , sparking his customary wild celebrations . In doing so , he matched Greg Chappell 's feat of scoring twin hundreds in a Test in his first match as captain. The Australian had achieved it against the West Indies in 1975-76 at Brisbane . There were more celebrations anticipated in the next over as Vijay was a solitary run away from an immaculate and richly deserved hundred , but it was not to be. He went for a back-foot flick but missed the ball completely to be out LBW. He scored 99 runs off 234 balls , hitting 10 fours and two sixes . That opened the floodgates as India lost their last eight wickets for 73 runs , collapsing from 242/3 to 315 all out. Ajinkya Rahane ( 0 ) was given out wrongly , caught at short leg but replays showed there was no bat involved . Rohit Sharma ( 6 ) looked clumsy and uncomfortable in the middle under intense pressure and after playing a few sweep shots against Lyon , was caught brilliantly at backward short leg by David Warner as the ball looped off his glove . Wriddhiman Saha ( 13 ) hit a couple of lusty blows but went too far against Lyon , as one turned in sharply from the rough to bowl him through the gate . Thereafter it was down to Kohli to soldier along alone and try to get India to the finish line. But even as Australia delayed the new ball , he went after Lyon for a big hit and was caught in the deep , not believing for some time that he was dismissed . Mohammad Shami ( 5 ) , Ishant Sharma ( 1 ) and Varun Aaron ( 1 ) had no answers to the hosts ' push for victory thereafter and they folded up without much fight . Earlier , in the post-lunch session , half centuries from Vijay and Kohli helped fuel India 's hope of victory as India only needed 159 runs with eight wickets remaining after tea . Prior to that break , the two batsmen built he platform for the possibility of a push for victory in the final session of play . Kohli was the main architect of this plan since he had attacked Lyon ever since he came to the crease. After lunch , he continued with the ploy , hoisting the spinner for a six. He brought up his fifty in the 45th over , reaching there in 69 balls . At the other end , Vijay was solid , and he too got to his eighth Test fifty off 131 balls , reaching the mark earlier in the 37th over. While Kohli kept the scoreboard ticking , Vijay was alert and watchful , not making any mistakes as the two snatched the momentum away from the hosts . Perhaps the biggest blow to Australians came in the 44th over when skipper Michael Clarke injured his right hamstring while fielding and left the field. Four overs later , the 100-run partnership between the two came up . Vijay gave one chance before the tea-break though , in the 59th over off Johnson , with Mitchell Marsh not latching to it at short cover . The batsman was on 85 at that point in time but closed up again to avoid any more danger before the final session , bringing up the 200-run mark in the 60th over . In the morning , Shikhar Dhawan ( 9 ) and Vijay took guard hoping that today would be the day to improve India 's overseas record of not having a 50-run opening stand since 2011 . But it was not to be as Dhawan was given dubiously out in the fifth over as a short delivery from Johnson struck his shoulder on its way to the keeper . While the left-handed batsman was obviously disappointed , Vijay had a life granted to him when later in the 16th over , against Lyon , he padded up to a delivery that spun in sharply . He should have been adjudged out LBW but umpire Marais Erasmus thought differently. Vijay was batting on 24 at that time and had just hit the spinner for a mighty six previously , taking the Indian score past the 50-mark in the company of Cheteshwar Pujara . The number three batsman had a tough time against Lyon as he was caught back on his crease many times , with the bowler looking to use the rough areas consistently. Only with two successive boundaries off the backfoot in the 14th over , he had managed to release some pressure . But his uncomfortable vigil at the crease did n't last long as Lyon broke through in the 20th over finally , a delivery that held its line taking a healthy outside edge for keeper Brad Haddin to snap up his second catch in the innings. Pujara scored 21 runs off 38 balls , inclusive of 4 boundaries . Skipper Kohli joined Vijay in the middle then and the two batted without much fuss for the remainder 14 overs in the session. The two batsmen brought up the 100-run mark in the 31st over . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
