VVS , Bhajji worried about Indian attack at World Cup The author has posted comments on this article Rohan Puri , TNN | Jan 10 , 2015 , 09.47AM IST " I think all the players have enough match experience. Only Axar Patel is a bit short on it. But he has done really well in the limited opportunities he has got , " said VVS Laxman. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Former Team India players VVS Laxman and Harbhajan Singh spoke about India 's chances at the World Cup , which is just 35 days away , during a promotional event organised by Air India on Friday . Both raised concerns over the team 's death-bowling abilities but felt that it 's a balanced team and can make an impact Down Under. Excerpts : Are you happy with India 's World Cup squad ? VVS : I think it 's the best the selectors could have done. It is a well-balanced squad. Most players who did well in the ODI series against West Indies and Sri Lanka have been picked. We have an excellent batting line-up. We also have the bowlers who can take wickets upfront , especially now with two new balls being used in ODIs. Then we have three spinners who can also bat. The only area of concern for me is the death-bowling . Harbhajan : The only change that I would have loved to see was Harbhajan Singh coming in for some other player ( Laughs ) . I think it is a very good side. Australian conditions are not easy. We have a good batting line-up which can be very destructive. Bowling is definitely an issue. Bowling at the death and in the middle overs is going to be a concern. I do n't know who is going to pick wickets . Do you think lack of experience in the team is a cause of worry ? VVS : I think all the players have enough match experience. Only Axar Patel is a bit short on it. But he has done really well in the limited opportunities he has got. He has done well for Kings XI Punjab , especially in the death overs. A team which handles the pressure will come out victorious. This is one area where the team is lacking . Did selectors make a mistake by not picking a leg-spinner ? Harbhajan : For me , both Jadeja and Axar do the same thing. You could have gone for either Amit Mishra or Kuldeep Yadav . VVS : It was unfortunate that Kuldeep Yadav missed out. He did not get the chance to showcase his talent. Of all the young spinners , Axar has grabbed the opportunity with both hands. Australian pitches will suit his style of bowling. He is a handy batsman and an excellent fielder . Is it a gamble to pick an unfit Ravindra Jadeja ? VVS : The physiotherapist must have declared him fit. Also there is more than one month before the World Cup starts. So there is ample time for Jadeja to recover. He might also get to play a few games before the World Cup. The selectors will never take a gamble . Who do you think would be the key players for India at the World Cup ? Harbhajan : The key players would be Virat Kohli and Rohit Sharma . MS Dhoni needs to bat well down the order. If they click , then we will have a good score on the board. Bowling is a concern. India will have more chances of winning the Cup if they chase most of the times . VVS : I am not worried about the batting. I hope and wish all the three fast bowlers are in top form. In the ongoing Test series , our batsmen have done very well. But it is disappointing to see the performance of bowlers in this series. Even after four matches , they are still not bowling in the right areas. We are talking about Test cricket and they are conceding over 5 runs an over. So what will happen in the ODIs ? It is important for them to take wickets early on . Slip fielding has never been the same since Dravid and you ( Laxman ) retired.. . VVS : Slip fielding requires a lot of hard work. Mohammad Azharuddin used to tell me that every day you have to take at least 100-150 catches and that became a part of our routine. It is also a specialist 's position. It is important to identify the specialists. Personally , I would like to see Suresh Raina at second slip and Ashwin or Shikhar Dhawan at first slip . Will India miss Yuvraj Singh at the World Cup ? VVS : It is unfortunate that Yuvraj missed out. But there are other guys who performed at the international level and they deserve a chance . How special was winning 2011 World Cup ? Harbhajhan : It was one the biggest moments for me. Lifting the trophy was something very special. We did a lot of 'hungama and drama ' with the trophy. That night was equally special. We had our medals on till the morning. I even slept with my medal on. We partied hard , danced and drank a lot. We danced till 3-4 am. I saw Sachin Tendulkar dancing with his wife for the first time. I do not drink too much. But that was the day to get drunk and I got drunk . VVS : I remember watching the match at home with my son. When Dhoni hit that six , I was in tears. My son asked me why I was crying. I told him that it was a big emotional moment for all of us who were part of Indian cricket . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
