Wakhare 's five-for gives Vidarbha lead The author has posted comments on this article Ruchir Mishra , TNN | Jan 19 , 2015 , 10.56AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NAGPUR : Only 25 matches in a career spanning six years is n't the fair reflection of Akhay Wakhare 's talent. He was tipped to fill the big shoes of Preetam Gandhe but injuries and indifferent form means Wakhare was n't the regular member of Vidarbha side even after Gandhe 's retirement. The last couple of years , however , have been different. Whenever he was given the opportunity , Wakhare has made it count and bowled well within his limitations. With experienced Rakesh Dhruv in the side , Wakhare had to wait for his turn this season. However , the tall offie has again made most of the opportunity bagging five wickets on a placid Jamtha track against Saurashtra , who are known to play spinners well . Wakhare 's sixth First Class five-wicket haul helped Vidarbha bowl Saurashtra out for 309 in their first innings , ensuring the innings lead and three important points from a drawn Ranji Trophy Group 'B ' tie. VIdarbha , in their second innings scored 116-2 , losing Faiz Fazal ( 55 ) and Amol Ubarhande ( 0 ) , while debutant Sachin Katariya remained unbeaten on 50 when both teams decided to call off before mandatory overs . Wakhare 's effort was all the more creditable as Dhruv got injured on Day 3 and he had to shoulder the responsibility of taking wickets , with not much support at the other end. The wicket remained firm throughout and although there was some turn for the spinners , it was very slow. The batsmen had sufficient time to negotiate the turn. The advantage of having big total on the board meant Wakhare could toss the ball more often than not and buy wickets. All throughout the Saurashtra innings , he did that. Neither it was easy to pick wickets on this track , nor contain the runs. Wakhare did both. Once he broke the 39-run stand between Jaydev Shah and Arpit Vasavada , sending the former back , Saurashtra innings did n't last long. The lower order did hang around for some time but never threatened Vidarbha. Wakharre picked his fifth wicket when he cleaned up Dharmendra Jadeja. It 's easy to criticize Vidarbha for not enforcing follow on but it was expected considering the placid nature of wicket. Besides , Vidarbha were a bowler short as Dhruv did n't take the field on the last day as well . Openers Faiz and Katariya used remaining time to have some good batting practice. Both looked very comfortable helping themselves to fifties. It was Vidarbha 's best opening stand of the season. While Faiz batted with usual ease , Katariya showed good composure during the second dig. He had missed out on the run feast in the first innings because of dreadful mix-up on Day 1. The 19-year-old made sure he continued his good run in the season. He has scored 1893 runs before earning the Viidarbha cap. Except for solitary lapse in concentration , Katariya looked solid. He unnecessarily danced down the wicket to off spinner Kamlesh Makwana but Sagar Jogiyani missed the regulation stumping chance. He grew in confidence as the innings progressed ; showed good technique against both pacers and spinners. Once Katariya broke the shackles hitting Makwana for a maximum over his head , he was a different batsman. The youngster will be tested in the remaining matches when the conditions will be different. However , this innings will help him . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
