Want to learn the art of reverse swing from Zaheer : Sandhu The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 26 , 2015 , 04.39PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 PERTH : Narrowly missing out on a spot in Australia 's World Cup squad , Indian-origin pacer Gurinder Singh Sandhu is nonetheless excited at the prospect of playing alongside Zaheer Khan in the upcoming IPL and " learn the art of reverse swing " from the wily seamer . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Sandhu , who has played two ODIs for Australia in January this year , was picked by Delhi Daredevils after some intense bidding at Rs 1.7 crore ( USD 283,000 ) during the auctions in Bangalore on February 16 . " For me the greatest incentive about playing for the Delhi Daredevils is not just about the money I will make but a chance to share the dressing rooms with players like Zaheer Khan , Angelo Mathews and Yuvraj Singh . Especially , it ca n't get better that I will be training and playing with a bowler of Zaheer 's calibre , " the 21-year-old Sandhu , who recently made his debut for Australia in the ODI tri-series versus India , told PTI in an interview . Asked how exactly he plans to pick Zaheer 's brains , Sandhu said , " Obviously , he has been a great exponent of reverse swing. Hopefully , I will get to learn the art of reversing from him as it will be a good two months that we will be there for the Daredevils . " Also I would want to know about what kind of homework does he do about opposition batsmen. People say that he is a master in reading a batsman 's mind and it wo n't be a bad idea to get to peek into his brain , " the 6 feet 4 inch tall Sydney-based Sandhu said . It 's not only Zaheer for whom Sandhu has prepared his questionnaire as he have a few questions for Yuvraj also . " If I get a chance to ask Yuvraj one question , I would like to ask whether he has any particular shot in mind for any particular bowler , when he comes into bat , " said Sandhu . For someone , who gets a lot of disconcerting bounce due to his height and high-arm action , Sandhu is working on adding a couple of yards to his mid-130 kmph speed . " My stock delivery has been the outswinger and my focus has always been on hitting the right length. I can also bowl the incoming delivery. I am working hard on cranking up my pace by another 5 kmph , which should probably help me hit the 140 kmph mark. Glenn McGrath and Craig Mcdermott ( Australia 's bowling coach ) have helped a lot in understanding the nuances of fast bowling , " said Sandhu . Asked about his ODI debut for Australia and one could hear the delight in Sandhu 's voice . " It was a moment , I will treasure all my life. Wearing the Australian ODI cap is something I had dreamt as a child. Actually , as Rod Marsh ( selector ) handed over the cap , I was in a trance. I know , he said some good things but I was in a different world. It happens , when a dream that you cherish so much comes true , " he said . On the day of the IPL auctions , Sandhu did n't get to watch the live streaming as he was playing for New South Wales in a Sheffield Shield match against Victoria . " It was at the end of the day that I was told by my mates that I have bagged a contract with the Delhi Daredevils. My folks are also excited as it 's a great opportunity for a young player like me . " I got congratulatory messages from my Australian teammates Josh Hazlewood and Mitchell Starc. They were very happy for me , " added Sandhu , whose three international wickets are Eoin Morgan , Ian Bell and Ajinkya Rahane . " I have been to India before at the MRF Pace Academy in Chennai after Glenn McGrath took charge. I have never played at the Feroz Shah Kotla but looking forward towards the experience , " said Sandhu , whose father is a cab driver in Sydney . Sandhu received an email from chief coach Gary Kirsten after the auctions were over . " Although I have n't spoken formally to Gary , I did get an email from him after the auctions. He welcomed me to the Daredevils family and said that he is looking forward towards meeting me , " Sandhu concluded . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
