Waqar slams ex-players for questioning his appointment The author has posted comments on this article PTI | May 8 , 2014 , 06.15PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 KARACHI : Pakistan 's new head coach Waqar Younis has lashed out at former players and critics who have questioned his appointment by the PCB . While former skipper and ex-PCB director general Javed Miandad has termed chairman Najam Sethi 's new appointments as unconstitutional , former chief selector Mohsin Khan has directly hit out at Waqar 's appointment . Waqar , who is due to take charge in June , said in his defence that he had applied for the head coach position as per the requirements of the Pakistan board . " I followed the proper procedure while applying for the post and I was not appointed directly. So it is unfair to question my appointment , " Waqar said . The former captain also made it clear that he had applied for the post with an open mind and desire to do something for Pakistan cricket . " I think I have learnt a lot from my previous experience as head coach and obviously it will prove valuable for me when I take charge , " he added . Waqar , who was also head coach in 2010-11 before he stepped down due to personal reasons , said he did n't foresee any problems in his second stint . " Like I said I have learnt from the past and I think we have some match-winners who just needed to be guided and motivated properly. " The former speedster also said that he had no issues working with anyone in the team be it Shahid Afridi or anyone else . " I think the media played up the Afridi issue as it was not such a big deal and was sorted out between us. " Meanwhile , the PCB 's director ( international cricket ) and a member of the coaching committee , which was formed to scrutinise and recommend names for different coaching positions to the PCB chairman , also defended his appointment . " Waqar was the unanimous choice of the coaching committee and he came through a proper process. We recommended his name finally after the deadline for candidates to submit their applications ended , " he said . Meanwhile Waqar 's bowling partner and Kolkata Knight Rider 's bowling consultant Wasim Akram hailed his former teammate 's appointment to the important position . " Waqar 's appointment as head coach was a great step for Pakistan cricket. It would certainly benefit the team that would feature in next year 's World Cup in Australia and New Zealand , " said Akram while talking to a private TV channel . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
