Warner is the best among all explosive openers : Greatbatch The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 14 , 2015 , 10.28AM IST Australia 's David Warner runs for the quick singleduring the Pool A World Cup match against England at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : The cricket world still had n't warmed up to Sanath Jayasuriya when Mark Greatbatch arrived on the scene. It was the World Cup of 1992 , where a stocky left-hander walking down the pitch to Curtley Ambrose and hitting him over the top became one of the lasting images of the tournament . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Greatbatch , in a way , changed how ODI would be played thereafter , as the first 15 overs became the opportunity to score big runs. Pinch-hitting was the way to go . Jayasuriya , of course , took it to another level four years later , but the Kiwi is the one who showed the way . " We had to think of a strategy to do well in that World Cup . Martin Crowe ( the captain ) , myself , Rod Latham - we all thought about bringing in this novelty to the game and it served us well. The idea was to take some pressure off the middle-order , " Greatbatch told TOI on the eve of another World Cup that 's going to start in New Zealand . Greatbatch speaks of the fearlessness that is required to adopt such an approach and he feels quite a few in the current generation have that. " I would say David Warner is the best of the lot. He is powerful , he is in great form and he knows how to take the attack to the opposition. " He has n't seen much of Shikhar Dhawan , who has struggled in international cricket of late. But Greatbatch pins his hopes on Rohit Sharma to give India those explosive starts . " He has got two double centuries opening the batting for India. India should n't even think twice before putting him at the top. He has the talent , he has the shots , I am sure Rohit will deliver , " he said . Two of his other favourite openers are Chris Gayle and Brendon McCullum , and the Kiwi believes both can take the game away from the opposition. " They have the talent , they are such brilliant bats. These guys can be so destructive , " the former opener added . When an opener launches such a vicious attack , the bowlers often lose their calm , as did Ambrose in that game in Auckland in 1992 which New Zealand won by five wickets . Greatbatch laughed when reminded of it. " Yes , he was flustered , he walked down the track staring at me , but that 's a long time back. Ambrose was just a fantastic bowler. " New Zealand , after winning seven in a row in that World Cup , lost in the semifinals. Can they go a step ahead ? " Why not ? " asks Greatbatch. " I think we have the team to win the World Cup that we should have won back in 92. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
