Warner needs to stop looking for trouble , say CA bosses The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 20 , 2015 , 09.16AM IST Umpires intervene as David Warner ( L ) argues with Rohit Sharma ( R ) during their ODI tri-series match at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE : David Warner has a knack for getting into trouble. Despite warnings in the past , he does not seem to learn. His on-field spat with Rohit Sharma during Sunday 's ODI in Melbourne has led to a fine of 50 % of his match-fee and also a stern warning from Cricket Australia ( CA ) officials . CA 's chief executive James Sutherland and high performance manager Pat Howard both cautioned Warner on his behavior , saying repeated instances of on-field incidents are not going to help his cause . " He has worked very hard on his behaviour over the last one year and I have told him very clearly that instances like this only serve to set back the progress he has made , " Sutherland told the media in Melbourne. " Quite simply , he needs to stop looking for trouble. This is the second time he has been before the match referee this season and that 's twice too often . " From my discussion with David , I am satisfied that his comments to Rohit Sharma were not racially motivated. That said , I have reminded him that he needs to carefully reconsider the manner in which he approaches these sorts of situations in the future. " Trying to clear things , Warner told a local radio station in Melbourne on Monday : " Cricket etiquette tells you that when you throw a ball to the 'keeper and it hits a player you do n't run . A few of the boys said something to him ( Rohit ) and when I went over to say something , he sort of said something in his language and I told him 'speak English ' , because if he 's going to say something for me to understand , it ought not to be in Hindi. " The incident had occurred at the end of the 23rd over of India 's innings , when Sharma and Suresh Raina took a run following an overthrow and the Australians showed their displeasure , seemingly believing the ball had ricocheted off Sharma 's pads. Replays suggested that was not the case , and at the end of the over the umpire had to step in to end the verbal volley between the two . Australia 's coach Darren Lehmann rather diplomatically said the team supported Warner 's aggressive style , " but would work with him to ensure his behavior was within acceptable standards " . " Davey has been fined 50 % , so we 'll deal with that and move on. It 's not an ideal scenario , but we 've got to make sure we 're playing the cricket we want to play without crossing the line , " was Lehmann 's take on the incident . Australia 's coach Darren Lehmann rather diplomatically said the team supported Warner 's aggressive style , " but would work with him to ensure his behavior was within acceptable standards " . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
