WC 2015 's 'position perfect ' boys The author has posted comments on this article Soumitra Das , TNN | Mar 25 , 2015 , 08.02PM IST Page 1 of 4 Best Captains M S Dhoni has led Team India to seven straight WC wins this time ( 11 overall consecutive WC wins in total ) . As usual , he has been ice cool under extreme pressure. Against the West Indies and Zimbabwe , he stood firm as a batsman when India were in tough situations and against Bangladesh , his wicket keeping was excellent too. Dhoni now has 100 ODI wins as skipper ! The aggressive skipper Brendon McCullum 's aggressive captaincy seems to have rubbed off on the entire New Zealand team , who won all their league games. The captain has led from the front as an opener . Unorthodox ABD AB de Villiers looks like a man on a mission and when required , the champion batsman is bowling and picking up wickets too ! Best openers Martin Guptill With 498 runs at an average of 83 , Martin Guptill has given New Zealand dream starts and scored an unbeaten double century ( 237 not out ) against West Indies in the quarter final ! Brilliant Brendon ! Brendon McCullum has given New Zealand explosive starts in almost every game , and a strike rate of over 187 signifies what a nightmare he has been for the bowlers. His 77 off 25 balls against England is a case in point and McCullum has been pivotal in setting up the games perfectly for his team . Shikhar Specials With 367 runs at an average of over 52 , Shikhar Dhawan has been instrumental in lending solidity to Team India 's batting. His century against South Africa was a top knock . BEST MIDDLE-ORDER BATSMEN AB de Villiers Nothing seems impossible when AB de Villiers ( 417 runs so far ) is at the crease. His average is in the 80s , he scored the fastest 150 against the West Indies and has hit a WC record 20 sixes thus far . 'Maxi'mum hitting ! With his unorthodox hitting , Glenn Maxwell has been a nightmare for bowlers and has a strike rate in excess of 190 ! Minnow Punch Zimbabwe 's Brendan Taylor ( 433 runs , two centuries ) was a sheer delight to watch as bowed out of international cricket in style. Bangladesh 's Mahmudullah played a similar role for Bangladesh , becoming the first Bangladeshi to score a WC ton . BEST TWEAKERS Imran Tahir With 15 wickets , South Africa 's Imran Tahir has been a real revelation and the Sri Lankans found him too hot to handle in the quarter-final . The Established ones Daniel Vettori ( 13 wickets at just 3.21 runs an over ) and Ravichandran Ashwin ( 12 wickets at 4.52 runs an over ) have turned the myth about spinners not doing well in Australia and New Zealand on its head ! BEST WICKET-KEEPERS It might not have been the perfect end to his career , but Sangakkara bowed out of ODIs in style , scoring four consecutive hundreds and averaging a Bradmanesques 108.20 with the bat ! He was also excellent behind the stumps . Newfound talent Pakistan 's Sarfraz Ahmed got lucky after Umar Akmal dropped a few catches. He made an impact when he equalled the world-record for most dismissals ( six ) against South Africa. He also scored a century against Ireland , besides crucial 49 against SA . BEST PACE BATTERY Mitchell Starc and Trent Boult have been unplayable , and their bowling performance made the Australia vs New Zealand game a low-scoring classic ! Tireless Shami He has been a real hero in India 's WC campaign , Not only has Mohammed Shami taken 17 wickets , he has kept the runs down . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
