WC rules Ahmadabad youngsters ' lives The author has posted comments on this article Soumitra Das , TNN | Mar 11 , 2015 , 07.46PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Recently , Rahul Joshi , an engineering student , was worried when he saw as many as six missed calls from his best friend on his mobile after coming out of the classroom on completion of an afternoon lecture. To his relief and pleasant surprise , it turned out to be a case of some cricketing excitement . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 An amused Rahul says , " My friend was so happy when Bangladesh beat England that he could n't contain his excitement and ended up calling me multiple times. Not only did that result ensured England 's ouster from the tournament , it also meant that India will now have a relatively easier opponent to face in the quarterfinal. I was overjoyed too when he shared this news. " This one incident pretty much sums up the mood amongst cricket lovers. Although the matches , which start in the morning , are coinciding with office , school and college timings , cricket buffs are ensuring that they stay updated with the scores . And it holds true not just for the matches involving Team India , but also for games involving other major sides like Australia , South Africa and New Zealand . Pradeep Sharma , an entrepreneur , puts it this way , " This is the biggest of all cricketing tournaments and we have to make certain adjustments to stay updated with the action. After all , it happens once in four years and I would n't want to miss the opportunity to watch the likes of Chris Gayle , AB de Villiers , Virat Kohli , Glenn Maxwell and Brendon McCullum in action for anything ! It was tough to get up early for some of the games held in New Zealand , which started at 3.30 am IST. But the alarm came to my rescue. Morning games are actually better because that way , it does not clash with TV shows. " And now that the tournament is all set to enter the knockout stage , fans have their plans in place to make the experience a special one. " For the quarterfinals that are on weekends , we have a group of friends that will get together at a common friend 's place and prepare breakfast together. We will have lunch together at a restaurant which serves good food. The icing on the cake is that the restaurant has a big screen , which will only add to the fun , " shares Nisarg Pancholi , a young engineer . Now that India are almost certain to face Bangladesh in the quarterfinal , fans are fancying India 's chances and have planned grand celebrations already. Says Avinandan Mukherjee , a post-graduate student , " We are almost sure that Team India will have a smooth ride till the semifinal and given the kind of form the team is in , there is a great chance of India retaining the World Cup. Watching the games with hostel buddies is always great fun and after every Indian victory , several of my friends participate in these bike rallies in the city , holding the tri-colour in their hands. It feels great ! " Sunilraj Singh , a marketing professional , sums up the mood perfectly when he says , " Even when the matches are over , the discussion in office always revolves around cricket. Be it war of taglines or sharing funny posts on social media and indulging in some friendly banter and arguments , cricket has completely taken over my life right now ! " Well , the cricket fever is well and truly on , and we can only imagine the kind of celebrations that will happen if Team India manages to retain the trophy ! Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
