Weather cools in Melbourne to bring respite The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 15 , 2015 , 12.04PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : The summer was expected to be at its peak. But cloudy skies and cool , gushing winds have brought the temperatures down so much that the residents of Melbourne had to pull out their jackets . Just a fortnight ago , Melbourne was piping hot during the Boxing Day Test. The Indian players who assembled here on Wednesday after a break of three days , would be happy that the weather has taken a turn for the better . It should remain cloudy for the next few days , giving the Indians quite a respite as they begin their preparation for the Tri-series with a net session at the MCG on Thursday afternoon . The Indian team will have to rely on just practice sessions over the next three days as no warm-up game has been scheduled for them to prepare for their opening match against Australia on January 18 . Originally , the match was slated for January 16 , but as the Test schedule was pushed back in the wake of the death of Phil Hughes , India 's opening Tri-series match was also deferred to give them sufficient time for rest . England , on the other hand , played a warm-up game in Canberra , before they take on the hosts in the opening match of Tri-series on Friday . Before Christmas , they were involved in an ODI series in Sri Lanka , which claimed the head of their skipper Alistair Cook , after the team suffered a humiliating 2-5 loss. England , under new captain Eoin Morgan , would like to turn a new leaf from here . On Thursday , some of the Indian players will be present at a function at the MCG to unveil the new ODI clothing for the ODI series. Three players - Stuart Binny , Ambati Rayudu and Mohit Sharma - have joined the team after their last round of Ranji Trophy matches. On Thursday , the team will again be under the command of ODI captain MS Dhoni . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
