We do n't need day/night Tests for format to survive : Clarke The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Apr 30 , 2014 , 05.43PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The ICC might think of day/night Tests as an innovation to keep Test cricket alive and kicking , but Australian skipper Michael Clarke feels that such a revamp is not needed to save the five-day game . " I think there is room for all three forms of the game. It is great that ODI and T20 cricket can be day/night , but I do n't believe we need day/night Tests for Test cricket to survive , " Clarke said in an interview . Clarke , 33 , also responded to former New Zealand skipper Martin Crowe 's recent criticism of Australian aggression towards opposition players. The batsman defended the Aussie approach as tough and fair . " We [ Australia ] play our cricket hard on the field , but as Australians we understand there is a line you ca n't cross... you can go close to it but you ca n't cross it... The Australian way is to play tough non-compromising cricket on the field , " said Clarke . Clarke , who was voted Cricketer of the Year in 2013 , had an ugly spat with England pacer James Anderson during the Ashes series but later resented his act . The Aussie Test skipper had admitted telling England 's No.11 to 'get ready for a broken arm ' as he took guard to face fast bowler Mitchell Johnson in the Brisbane Test . " What I said to James Anderson was n't appropriate , especially being over a stump mic... sometimes when you are playing international sport at the highest level , emotions come out for people to see , " said Clarke . Clarke , who was named captain of the Aussie ODI and Test team after Ricky Ponting retired post the 2011 World Cup , has been often accused of carrying on the Ponting style of on-field aggression . " We [ Australia ] do everything in our power to uphold the spirit of the game , the integrity of the game is crucial. We all know that as players and certainly as captain of Australia it is part of my job to ensure we always uphold the integrity of the game , " he said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
