We need more teams in World Cup to globalise cricket : Sachin Tendulkar The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 22 , 2015 , 06.17PM IST Tendulkar said the associate nations should get more exposure against top-flight teams. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Not quite convinced about the ICC 's plans to truncate the World Cup to 10 teams , retired Indian cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar feels the governing body should instead look to enhance the skills of so-called minnows . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " ...when you want the game to globalise , we need to encourage more and more teams to participate , obviously not at the cost of dropping the standard of play but we need to look at how we can get these guys to raise their standard of playing and I think the standard of playing is only going to rise when they start playing against the top sides , " Tendulkar said in the ICC 's first ever 'Google Hangout' . READ ALSO : 'Sachin , Sachin ' chants back as Tendulkar drops in at MCG " For that sake , I feel even if the top sides send their A-teams , India A could tour Zimbabwe , Bangladesh or Ireland , Scotland and all these teams they need encouragement. For UAE say , Australia-A or New Zealand-A team can go and play with UAE get them that encouragement , " he suggested . Tendulkar , the global ambassador for the ongoing World Cup , said the associate nations should get more exposure against top-flight teams to be well-prepared for big multi-national events . " I think it 's important that the top teams , the stronger ones play against all these teams as much as possible and not just during the World Cups. To play against them every four years I think we need to look into it and look to encourage them more by making them play international games against top sides , " Tendulkar said . Sachin Tendulkar dropped in at the Melbourne Cricket Ground to watch the World Cup match between India and South Africa. ( TOI Photo ) " You see it has been a history from many World Cups ; these sides have always come up with surprises. So West Indies got beaten earlier you know. I feel there is potential and these guys just need that potential to express their talent. This tournament is really gon na be exciting as the time goes by , you will see some exciting matches played , " he added . Talking about the ongoing edition , Tendulkar named the players he felt , would make a huge difference in the final analysis . " ...I think we ( India ) have got a solid team. We have a solid batting line-up. Shikhar ( Dhawan ) has started the tournament really well , so has Virat ( Kohli ) . Ajinkya ( Rahane ) has really played well today. So these are the guys and I think Rohit ( Sharma ) is also waiting to do something really special , " he said . " If I have to move to other teams , then in South Africa it is Hashim Amla , ( besides ) they have a terrific batting line up. In Australia , David Warner and Aaron Finch so you know there are so many top players , " he added . " Each team has you know is full of solid batting line up and then I think we have about six seven top players to look out for. The names are obvious , I must say. " Asked how much of himself did he see in Kohli , who is being touted as the next big thing in Indian cricket after Tendulkar , the diminutive former player said , " Each player I think likes to have his own identity and so was the case with me. " " I always liked to have my own identity and I did n't like comparisons. Each player in that era , if he targets to be one of the great players to have played in that era , then I think you would be doing a decent job. It is really difficult but you can certainly try and have realistic targets and then try and live up to your own expectations , " he said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
