We should celebrate Dhoni 's Test career : Dilip Vengsarkar The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Dec 30 , 2014 , 10.26PM IST " Dhoni 's sudden decision to call time on his Test career has left me surprised and shocked , " said Vengsarkar. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's sudden decision to call time on his Test career has left me surprised and shocked. Honestly , I felt he was still at the top of his game and had at least a year 's Test cricket left in him and that is why the decision is so shocking. He could have at least waited for the last Test at Sydney before announcing his decision . That said , we need to celebrate what has been a fine Test career. When I , as a chairman of the national selection committee , decided to temporarily hand him the Test captaincy against South Africa at Kanpur in April 2008 following Anil Kumble 's injury , India were at No. 5 or 6 in the ICC Test rankings. From there , he took the team to the No. 1 position not only in Tests but even in ODIs and T20s . I had spotted him in 2001 when I was the chairman of Talent Research Development Committee. He had the spark and his positive attitude , great body language and cricketing intelligence impressed me . Unlike players from bigger cities , who have a proper infrastructure to enhance their talent , Dhoni was n't that privileged as he hailed from Ranchi. That 's why we need to give him full credit for reaching where he has. It is really exemplary . There were talks that he did n't have the game to survive in Test cricket , but to me it did n't matter. For me , technique is a subjective thing. Everybody ca n't be a Geoffrey Boycott or a Sunil Gavaskar. How you adapt to conditions is what ultimately matters. That is what you call cricketing intelligence. It all boils down to mental toughness which he has in abundance and look , he 's gone on to play 90 Test matches with some memorable feats . When we decided to make him the vice-captain , I sought Sachin Tendulkar and Rahul Dravid 's opinion. They were very positive about him and that only strengthened my belief in him . The only thing that worried me was that his performance abroad was dismal. But one ca n't entirely blame him for the string of losses overseas. I do n't think any captain would have made a huge difference given the quality of attack we have . Frankly speaking , India does n't have the bowlers who can win Test matches. If you want to win abroad you need to have at least eight quality bowlers , who should be rotated. India will have to produce bowlers who can win Test matches. The amount of talent we have is huge , the only thing is that we need to spot the talent and groom them. And give them exposure like how we did for Ishant Sharma and all those guys. Pick them at the right time and mould them. That is what India and BCCI need to do . ( As told to Ehtesham Hasan ) Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
