Scorecard " They are in good form. MS Dhoni is leading them well. We look forward to another really tough contest. We 'll have to bat a lot better , specially the top-4 , " Clarke said when asked about his thoughts on the semifinal , following their six wicket win over Pakistan here . While answering how will they mentally prepare for the semifinal , Clarke said , " It 's no different to another game playing for Australia. I have spoken about not putting the World Cup on a pedestal , so preparation as always. Every time you play for Australia , you want do your best. " The Australian captain said it was " a really close game in the end " . — ICC ( @ ICC ) March 20 , 2015 " The bowlers did a fantastic job , our fielding was excellent , but Wahab came out and really put us under pressure , one of the fastest spells I 've seen in a long time , " he said . Clarke praised Shane Watson ( 64 not out ) and Steven Smith ( 65 ) for successfully seeing off a crisis situation when they looked in a spot of bother , having lost three wickets with not many runs on the board . " Watson toughed it out , Steven Smith looked fantastic. If they catch Watto at fine leg it could have been a lot tighter , credit to sticking in there. Wahab pushed us really hard , " he said . Pakistan skipper Misbah-ul-Haq lamented that things could have been different had they put more runs on the board . " It 's obviously disappointing , credit to Australia , they really deserved it , they bowled really well. At one stage 270-80 was on but we kept losing wickets and some of the batting shot selection really cost us , " he said . Like Clarke , Misbah was also in awe of Riaz 's fiery bowling . " He bowled his heart out , he 's been a totally different bowler throughout this tournament , I 've never seen spells like that , " Misbah , who has called time on his ODI career , said . Australian paceman Josh Hazlewood was adjudged Man of the Match for returning fantastic figures of 4 for 35 . " It 's a great day for us. I 've been bowling well all week so good to put in a performance. Happy to get a game today and happy with the result. Keeping them to 213 was perfect for us and the boys did a good job with the bat. We 're firing on all aspects , it 's been a good tournament and we 're going well , " the lanky pacer said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
