We will wait and watch : Dhoni on bowling combination The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 10 , 2015 , 06.03PM IST Dhoni expressed happiness that his batsmen and bowlers did well in their last game ahead of the World Cup grind. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni on Tuesday left the question on Indian bowling combination for the World Cup beginning on Saturday unanswered , saying the team will take a decision depending on the conditions . " We 'll have to wait and watch , depending on conditions and the kind of wickets offered , " Dhoni said when asked about the combination of bowlers to be used at the World Cup . " I wanted Ravindra Jadeja and R Ashwin to bowl their 10 overs , but I just wanted to use five bowlers in this game , and I needed Suresh Raina , " Dhoni said after his side crushed minnows Afghanistan by 153 runs in their second and final warm-up match in which he used six bowlers . He expressed happiness that his batsmen and bowlers did well in their last game ahead of the World Cup grind . " Overall , it has been quite a good match. We had big partnerships while batting with Rohit , Raina and Rahane coming good. In bowling also , after 4-5 overs we bowled really well and also got some reverse swing , " said Dhoni . Asked about his own form with the bat , Dhoni said , " I 'm not a big fan of practice games , but a bit more time in the middle does help. " About Ajinkya Rahane who scored 88 not out from 61 deliveries , he said , " Rahane is crucial for us. If you see the history of Indian ODI cricket , number five has been really crucial. " Off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin said. " Leg-breaks are a part of what I 'm doing. You ca n't be one-dimensional. Five fielders in the circle , people have to accept it. " Talking about Ravindra Jadeja who took two wickets and scored 11 not , he said , " It 's heartening to see Jadeja bowling 10 overs , and he 's also batting well. He 's been bowling and batting a lot at the nets. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
