India in Australia : 'Excited ' Steve Smith Hopes to go 2-0 up on Lively Brisbane Track India in Australia : 'Excited ' Steve Smith Hopes to go 2-0 up on Lively Brisbane Track Australia lead four-match series 1-0. Newly-appointed skipper Steve Smith hopes to double the advantage on the green-top wicket at Brisbane , where the second Test will be played from Wednesday . Last updated on Tuesday , 16 December , 2014 15 : 54 IST Total Shares Australian skipper Steve Smith will turn to Mitchell Johnson to turn the heat on the Indians on the lively wicket at Brisbane . © AFP Australia 's new Test captain Steve Smith is excited about the prospect of playing with India on a lively Gabba pitch in the second Test starting on Wednesday and said he wants his team to drive the advantage to go up 2-0 in the four-match series. ( Josh Hazlewood , Mitchell Starc in , Ryan Harris , Peter Siddle out ) " We 're all excited about coming into this second Test and trying to go two-nil up in this series , " said Smith. ( Draw was never an option in Adelaide , says Virat Kohli ) " After the wickets we 've played on in Test cricket , at the Adelaide Oval and the two matches in the UAE ( against Pakistan ) , it 's exciting for our fast bowlers to finally have something that 's going to have some liveliness to it. " ( Dhoni back to lead India in 2nd Test ) " That 's part of the reason Mitchell Starc and Josh Hazlewood have been included in the team. It is a traditionally fast and bouncy wicket and it looks no different out there for this Test match , " he added , announcing the Australian playing eleven for the match. ( MS Dhoni has no fears for India on lively Gabba track ) While Peter Siddle has been dropped , Ryan Harris has been rested as he was not a 100 per cent fit owing to a short turn-around time. Also , Smith will be batting at number four in place of the injured Michael Clarke with Shaun Marsh slotting in at number five. It has been a promotion that Smith has been looking forward to for a while . " I 've had a chat with a couple of the senior players and the coach about it. I just thought that in taking over the captaincy and a bit of extra responsibility that I would step up to number four and get the job done there. I do n't think there 's a big difference between batting four and five , " said Smith , who is now Australia 's 45th Test captain . Young fast bowler Josh Hazlewood is set to make his debut in a new-look Australian pace attack , which will also include recalled left-arm pacer Mitchell Starc . " I 've watched Josh very closely over the last couple of years at New South Wales and he impresses me every time. I think he 's only getting better and better. This pitch should suit him perfectly , " Smith said . " He 's very skillful for his age and I 'm looking forward to seeing him zing a few through and bowl with that extra bit of pace and get that extra bit of bounce as well. It 's very exciting for Josh to make his debut on Wednesday , " he concluded . Story first published on : Tuesday , 16 December 2014 14 : 17 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
