When will Duncan Fletcher quit , wonders fraternity The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Aug 19 , 2014 , 10.31AM IST Fletcher often harps on his exploits with the England side in the early 2000s , which is hardly relevant in the Indian context. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : The stoic figure of Duncan Fletcher standing behind the nets observing the Indian team bat and bowl has become an eyesore for Indian cricket followers . Under his stewardship as coach since June 2011 , India have lost five of the six series outside the subcontinent and the 1-3 hammering against England is being considered as one of the harshest in recent times . " The biggest problem with Fletcher is that he is not a communicative man. There 's no question about his knowledge , but it has to come down to the younger lot. He was probably good for somebody as polished and suave as Rahul Dravid , but there 's invariably a big communication gap with the juniors that has n't been bridged over the last four years , " a former member of the team management who had been with the team for four years told TOI . It had started since the 2011 tour of England , when India were whitewashed , and has continued till this series. One understands that by the end of the fifth Test , the communication had completely broken down and there was hardly any constructive input from the 65-year-old coach . Fletcher had taken over from Gary Kirsten with a lot of expectations. But according to insiders , the biggest difference between Kirsten and Fletcher was that the South African was much more hands on. " Fletcher is more of a theoretician who would have been great for a seminar . I have hardly seen Fletcher putting his hand on a struggling player 's shoulder , empathizing with his problems both in life and cricket , and trying to find a way forward , " the source , who was also a part of India 's World Cup winning unit in 2011 , said . One understands that Fletcher often harps on his exploits with the England side in the early 2000s , which is hardly relevant in the Indian context . And in addition to that , Fletcher had a bowling coach like Troy Cooley working with him. The 2005 Ashes England won had a lot to do with the performance of paceman Steve Harmison , Andrew Flintoff and Simon Jones . Fletcher also handpicked the support-staff for his Indian sojourn , but it was n't even close to the quality that Kirsten had . Paddy Upton was a wonderful go-between for Kirsten and the players , something that Fletcher never had . " Upton was an extremely approachable man who understood players ' psychology , while Fletcher 's support staff does n't have anybody like that. Moreover , Fletcher is not somebody who can be approached any time of the day , " the source added . " I do n't want to blame Fletcher too much for the batting woes , but he should have known the venues like the back of his palm. But time and again , India made mistakes in team selection , " WV Raman , one of India 's top coaches who is in charge of Kolkata Knight Riders ' batting unit , said . It 's not just Fletcher but fielding coach Trevor Penney , too , who has to share the blame. Catches have kept going down and it was indicated that there was hardly an innovative fielding drill formulated by Penney in the past few years . " It 's not just about giving catching practice to the players. These guys need to be moulded as specialist slip fielders both physically and mentally . " They are not like Rahul or VVS ( Laxman ) , who had been slip fielders all their lives. The likes of ( Ravindra ) Jadeja and ( Virat ) Kohli are brilliant outfielders , but training to be a slip fielder is different. I am not sure whether that happened , " Raman said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
