Whom do you replace Jadeja with , asks Dhoni The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Aug 11 , 2014 , 10.07AM IST Dhoni 's post-match analysis have confused people rather than giving them his perspective. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MANCHESTER : Indian captain MS Dhoni does n't appear to have a clue about what is going on , nor does he have any idea about how to stabilize his team that is currently in a state of free fall . He sounded even more confused after losing his 16th match in charge , and second on the trot. His batting has been patchy , glove work far from satisfactory and leadership uninspiring. His post-match analysis have confused people rather than giving them his perspective. It was no different on Saturday . Sample the following : ON ANOTHER DISAPPOINTING LOSS This defeat hurts a lot because we lost inside three days on a good wicket. It does n't matter if you lose the game in three days or five days , you lose a game you lose a game. The first hour was crucial. The fact that we lost six wickets during that period had a very big impact on the game. It took the game away from us. You can say that we did n't bat well in the second innings , but conditions on the first morning were more taxing . ON THE BATTING FAILURE It 's important is to put runs on the board. Our Lord 's show and the performance of No 8 , 9 , 10 and 11 ( with bat ) has camouflaged the failure of our top order. When we have played with five bowlers , the fifth bowler actually has ended up scoring some runs. A few batsmen may be going through a lean period , but have to put more runs on the board so that the bowlers can get the opposition out twice . ON KOHLI 'S POOR FORM , FLETCHER 'S ROLE When it comes to technical knowledge , I think Duncan has the most experience. He has been helping Virat as well as other batsmen. Virat may be 23-24 , but he has been playing cricket for 14 years. So he has developed a strong set of basics of his own and it is tough to alter it in a few weeks or days. You may feel comfortable doing in the nets. But once pressure mounts in the middle , the first thing you do is to go back to your basics. That 's your instinct. It will take a bit of time . ON RAVINDRA JADEJA The problem is whom do you replace him with. If we drop him , we will again go in with an extra batsman and miss a fifth bowler. I think the more he plays , the better he will get. He will have to back himself to play with confidence . ON TACKLING MOEEN ALI It is important to remain positive even if we lose a few wickets because it pushes the opposition into using their pacers. He consistently pitches it in the same area and makes good use of the drift . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
