Why ca n't Pakistan beat India in the World Cup ? The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 16 , 2015 , 08.15AM IST Virat Kohli celebrates his successful catch out of Pakistan 's Shahid Afridi during the Pool B 2015 Cricket World Cup match at the Adelaide Oval. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : If Pakistan were looking for answers for its wretched losing streak against arch-rivals India in the World Cup , they need to cut to the chase and begin with the captain 's luck with the toss . READ ALSO : India hit Pakistan for six When Misbah-ul Haq called incorrectly before Sunday 's 76-run defeat at the Adelaide Oval , it was the fifth time in six World Cup outings that Pakistan had lost the toss to India . In all those five games , Pakistan failed to chase down the target. The only time India batted second , at the Centurion in 2003 , the genius of Sachin Tendulkar took the game away from Pakistan . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Former Pakistan captain Inzamam-ul Haq is convinced India 's luck with the toss has played a major role in its 6-0 scoreline against the old foes in the sport 's premier 50-over showpiece . " I believe batting first is always an advantage as batsmen tend to get under pressure while chasing in big games , " Inzamam wrote in a guest column for the tournament 's official website . " I ca n't find a suitable word to describe what goes wrong when we chase against India , but it 's more like a mental blockage of players. " On Sunday , after Virat Kohli 's 107 had set up a 301-run target , Pakistan folded up for 224 with only skipper Misbah contributing a valiant 76 off 84 balls . Raina and Mohit celebrate at the end of their World Cup match against Pakistan , as batsman Mohammad Irfan watches on. ( Reuters Photo ) In previous World Cup games against India , Pakistan failed to chase down totals of 216 in Sydney ( 1992 ) , 287 in Bangalore ( 1996 ) , 227 in Manchester ( 1999 ) and 260 in Mohali four years ago . India 's latest win came without the reassuring presence of retired batting superstar Tendulkar , who had proved a stumbling block for Pakistan in at least four of the five previous encounters . In 2003 , Tendulkar tamed a star-studded pace battery of Wasim Akram , Waqar Younis and Shoaib Akhtar to fashion India 's six-wicket win with a scintillating 98 off 75 balls after Pakistan had piled up 273/7 . Misbah was at a loss to explain another failure on Sunday. " I do n't know what happened , " he said. " But it is important to forget this loss and look to the future. The game is gone now , so we have to just concentrate on the next one. " Six straight losses will hurt more because Pakistan enjoy a superior overall one-day record over India , having won 72 games and lost 51 . Indian captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni had some comforting words for Pakistan , saying the unbeaten run would not stay for ever . " This World Cup record is good and we are proud of it , " he said. " But a time will come when we will lose to them. This record wo n't stay for the rest of our lives. " That opportunity could come in the ongoing tournament itself if the two sides clash again in the semi-finals or the final . In 1992 when the World Cup was held Down Under , Pakistan recovered from a 43-run loss to India in the league to win the tournament under Imran Khan . Pakistan need to win at least three of their remaining five matches against South Africa , the West Indies , Ireland , the United Arab Emirates and Zimbabwe to confirm a quarter-final placing . Former batting great Javed Miandad , the only other player besides Tendulkar to play in six World Cups , reminded the current squad that all was not lost yet . " In a way it is good that Pakistan has got an early jitter , " said Miandad. " Pressure should be now off from their shoulders and they should concentrate on the remaining five group matches. " Miandad blamed faulty selection for Sunday 's defeat , saying it was " mindboggling " to open the batting with veteran Younis Khan or drop specialist wicket-keeper Sarfraz Ahmed . " What is needed is to field the right combination and look for specialists instead of accommodating players who are not in form , " he wrote. " Remember Pakistan should come first and not the individuals. " Pakistan next play the West Indies at Christchurch on Saturday . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
