Why MS Dhoni batted for Duncan Fletcher The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Aug 26 , 2014 , 12.13PM IST There is no guarantee Dhoni 's wish of keeping Fletcher till the World Cup will materialize. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHENNAI : MS Dhoni 's open defence of under-fire coach Duncan Fletcher seems to have contradicted BCCI 's line on the issue. But it has n't come as a surprise to those who have seen the Indian skipper 's method of operation up close . Though Fletcher 's managerial skills are not the greatest , Dhoni , they say , believes the 65year-old has sound technical knowledge and can offer great inputs . Sources indicated that Dhoni , along with Rahul Dravid , feels Fletcher 's technical inputs are top notch . " According to Dhoni , Fletcher comes up with the right advice on the batting front. It is up to the batsmen to execute these tips on the field , which sometimes the younger lot has been unable to do , " the source said . Even when India lost in England and Australia in 2011-12 and questions were raised about Fletcher 's role , Dhoni had defended the coach and termed it a " collective failure " . The coach again faced flak when India lost back-to-back series in South Africa and Australia but the skipper maintained that Fletcher had done his job as technical analyst. It went a long way in the coach getting a one year extension from the BCCI . " There was a bit of a turnaround in South Africa in the Tests last year after a disastrous ODI series. Fletcher was apparently a useful contributor , coming up with the right suggestions , " the source added . Dhoni , in his six-year tenure as India captain , has shown that he believes in maintaining continuity , that performance is more about the process and drastic measures after a debacle do n't always help . Despite all the talk about his Test captaincy , Dhoni is expected be in charge in ODIs and lead India to the 2015 World Cup in February-March . " In this set-up , the captain sees Fletcher as a technical analyst till the World Cup , " the source added . The BCCI , though , is not entirely convinced with Dhoni 's theory. The bosses have lost their patience after the England debacle , sending out feelers to the coach to vacate his spot . There is no guarantee Dhoni 's wish of keeping Fletcher till the World Cup will materialize . " If Fletcher does n't go after the England ODI series , his performance will be assessed , " the source added , indicating uneasy times ahead for the Zimbabwean . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
