Will Suresh Raina walk in for Rohit Sharma ? The author has posted comments on this article Partha Bhaduri , TNN | Dec 25 , 2014 , 10.31AM IST If Suresh Raina does get the nod , he should consider himself lucky. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Out here in Australia , they just call him " 264 " . No prefixes , no 'number ' or 'mister'. The chants follow him wherever he goes , and it was no different at the MCG nets as Rohit Sharma made an entrance on Wednesday. " 264 , 264 , look this side , " screamed some Indian fans , phones at the ready. The cricketer obliged , raising an arm . Rohit knows he is in the Test side precisely because of that format-transcending number. He scored those runs in a One-day International off just 171 balls last month against Sri Lanka , immediately raising expectations of a rousing performance in the Tests Down Under. '264 ' ensured that his place in the XI was guaranteed , at least for the first two Tests. '264 ' also ensured that Suresh Raina 's Test comeback would have to be put on ice , at least for a while longer . It 's significant how both of India 's claimants for the crucial No. 6 spot - a sort of bulwark between the tail and the middle-order , a crucial last stop before the established batsmen run out - have struggled to translate One-day promise into Test performance . When Rohit Sharma bats well , it 's seems inconceivable he will ever fail. But at the Gabba , Ian Chappell commented on Fairfax Radio that the batsman appeared to be " sleepwalking " . There can be few more damning indictments of a player 's lack of effort but Chappell was merely expressing what many have wondered for long : How can a player of Rohit 's abilities fail so often in pressure situations ? How can he be all gorgeous strokeplay and lazy elegance one day , and merely lazy the other ? More than his scores of 43 , 6 , 32 and 0 in this series , it has been the manner and timing of Rohit 's dismissals which have rankled. Both dismissals in Adelaide sparked batting collapses , and while it was a similar story in the first innings at the Gabba , in the second , with India already reeling , he simply failed to stem the tide. Rohit may not get another chance since the Indian team management is giving a serious consideration to Raina 's credentials. At the nets too , Raina got two long batting sessions as MS Dhoni and Ravi Shastri looked on . Sharma batted much later with 'passenger ' Wriddhiman Saha , when the established bowlers had already tested their rhythm and departed. If nets are any consideration , Raina 's name looks to have been pencilled in for the Boxing Day Test already . If Raina does get the nod , he should consider himself lucky. He played his last Test in August 2012 , and if not for new director of cricket Ravi Shastri 's eagerness to give him another go in whites , Raina may not have been on the flight to Australia at all . Raina 's superior performance in the One-Dayers in England , where he scored a century in Cardiff and appeared to revitalise the side , has offered hope of a similar resurgence in Tests in spite of his problems against the short ball . There was a point when both players were batting in adjacent nets , Raina having come back for yet another stint. " 264 " was the clear crowd favourite. In India , the crowds are far more cynical. They call Sharma " Talent " . The term itself is an indication of promise yet to be fulfilled . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
