Windies pullout fallout : BCCI to take stock The author has posted comments on this article Solomon S Kumar & Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Oct 21 , 2014 , 12.15PM IST N Srinivasan will lead the show as the BCCI ponders the West Indies issue. Page 1 of 4 HYDERABAD/CHENNAI : After being left red-faced by the withdrawal of West Indies midway through the India tour , the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) will take stock of the situation during the emergency Working Committee meeting , here on Tuesday . The main agenda of the meeting is the course of action to be pursued against the West Indian board and the fixing of the itinerary for the five ODI series against the visiting Sri Lankan team . There was a huge hue and cry by the board officials after the West Indians had pulled out after the fourth ODI at Dharamshala with some of the members calling for punitive measures against the West Indians . " We have suffered huge losses due to the decision of the West Indies to pull out of the tour. We are going to claim all the damages and pursue the matter with ICC , " BCCI secretary Sanjay Patel had told an agency . However , a majority of the members feel that the BCCI should not go overboard over the issue . " There is a need to send out a strong message to the West Indian board. We can not take things lying down but at the same time we can not jump the gun. We need to take stock of things in the proper perspective and make sure that the game does n't suffer in this wrangling , " a board source said on Monday . " We will be making our protest to the ICC but the question of claiming damages and how much will be left to the wisdom of the members , " the source said and added that the figures were still being arrived at . Another proposal was to cancel the Indian team 's tour to the West Indies tour in 2016 but sources said it would be farfetched. " It 's too early to decide on those tours , " the sources said . Hours after the West Indians had pulled out , the board had approached the Sri Lankan board which promptly agreed to a five-match ODI series. However , as a return favour , Sri Lanka wants India to tour next year , reportedly for a three-Test series. Sources said board members were not averse to the idea . The working committee will be preceded by the IPL Governing Council meeting where the issue of the West Indian players ' participation in the IPL will come up for discussion . Srinivasan to attend Interestingly , N Srinivasan will lead the show as the BCCI ponders the West Indies issue. Board members feel that the ICC chairman , who is still awaiting Supreme Court clearance to take over as the BCCI president , needs to be there in person so that they can decide on the future course of action . " He managed a crisis situation as BCCI secretary in 2008 when the Mumbai attacks happened and got the England team to come back for a Test series within 10 days. He was sorely missed this time around during the West Indies crisis , " a senior board functionary told TOI. Srinivasan will attend the meeting as the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association president . The losses incurred by the BCCI have been huge following West Indies ' pull-out and the BCCI is looking at the options on how to deal with the situation. They feel that it might not be possible for the WICB to pay an amount of Rs 400 crore even if they demand it . " But that does n't mean we can allow them to get away with it. The WICB gets to earn from ICC for their participation in the World Cup. We have to look at all the options on how to recover the money , " a source said . The BCCI has it 's sympathies with the West Indies players who faced severe pay cuts. The members do n't want to scratch their IPL contracts , but there is an issue of getting a no objection certificate from WICB . " We have to see how WICB deal with these stars , " a board source said. The BCCI , it is learnt , will try to ensure that the players do n't suffer due to the " inefficiency of WICB. " The venues of the Sri Lanka series will also be decided and it 's likely that the five centres that missed out following West Indies ' withdrawal will get the ties. It means that the five ODIs are likely to be played in Kolkata , Cuttack , Bangalore , Hyderabad and Ahmedabad . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
