Windies wind up ongoing India tour The author has posted comments on this article Hindol Basu , TNN | Oct 18 , 2014 , 12.42PM IST This sensational decision by the West Indian team came a day after the WICB made it clear to the players that it would engage only with the West Indies Players Association ( WIPA ) . ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 DHARAMSALA : In an unprecedented and shocking move , the West Indies players , on Friday , decided to call off their ongoing tour of India over a payment dispute with the West Indies Cricket Board ( WICB ) . The team will not play the fifth ODI in Kolkata , neither the one-off T20 , nor the 3-match Test series . The BCCI , meanwhile , has invited Sri Lanka for a five-match ODI series starting November 1. Sri Lanka Cricket ( SLC ) has confirmed its participation for the series . This sensational decision by the West Indian team came a day after the WICB made it clear to the players that it would engage only with the West Indies Players Association ( WIPA ) . Dwayne Bravo and his team members , however , are up in arms against WIPA president , former batsman Wavell Hinds. The players contend that Hinds had signed a Memorandum of Understanding ( MoU ) with the WICB without the knowledge of the players and such an agreement would lead to a significant cut in their pay structure . The WICB , later in the day , tried to salvage the situation by saying that it had not pulled out of the tour and that it would be issuing a statement after the end of the fourth ODI. However , a release by BCCI secretary Sanjay Patel clearly showed that the West Indies team manager Richie Richardson had informed the board at 2 pm on Friday itself that the team was pulling out of the tour . " Despite agreeing to play the 4th ODI in Dharamshala , regrettably , the current West Indies players have decided that they will not participate any further in this tour and wish to return home after this match. In light of this , I suggest that the entire squad travel to Delhi tomorrow ( Saturday ) and be booked into a hotel there , until international return flights have been booked. On behalf of the entire squad and WICB , I apologise for the inconvenience caused , " the BCCI release quoted Richardson as saying . Bravo , in a letter to the WICB president Dave Cameron on October 11 , had sought the resignation of WIPA board and Hinds , saying it no longer represented the West Indian players ' cause. Bravo , in the letter , had also requested the WICB president 's " urgent intervention " to facilitate a solution . A miffed Indian board hinted at suing the WICB over the cancellation of the tour. " The BCCI is shocked and extremely disappointed at the decision taken by the WICB , " the board said in a statement late on Friday . " The WICB 's inability to resolve internal issues with its players and allowing the same to affect an ongoing bilateral series does not reflect well on any of those involved. The withdrawal gives little thought to the future of the game , the players and the long standing relations between the BCCI and the WICB. " 'ODI nearly got cancelled' According to HPCA president and BCCI joint secretary Anurag Thakur , the West Indian team had actually decided not to play the Dharamsala ODI and it nearly got cancelled. However , last-minute intervention by Thakur and subsequent persuasion of Windies captain Bravo made sure that the game was played finally . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
