Winning 2011 World Cup was priceless moment : Sachin Tendulkar The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 11 , 2015 , 04.46PM IST Sachin Tendulkar felt the team peaked at the right time to win the World Cup. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Revealing an unknown emotional side to his personality , retired batting legend Sachin Tendulkar recalled how " happy tears " rolled out of his eyes when India won the 2011 World Cup , and termed the moment as " priceless " . READ ALSO : Sachin Tendulkar shares batting tips ahead of World Cup Narrating the final moments when India defeated Sri Lanka , the iconic cricketer said he thanked the Gods , screamed and ran out of the dressing room to the middle . " I did cry when I went out in the middle... I did cry. This was the only time I had happy tears... because that moment was just a priceless moment. That moment was something that you can only dream off , " remembered Tendulkar . " Playing in India , on the home ground...The Indian team celebrated with lots of champagne as their families , friends and fans also joined in the dressing room that night. " Tendulkar further revealed that nothing came close to that moment when he lifted the World Cup . " It was not my trophy , it was our trophy , it was the nation 's trophy , " Tendulkar told 'Headlines Today' . India lifted the World Cup after a gap of 28 years in Mumbai. ( TOI Photo ) The 41-year-old , who retired from international cricket in November 2013 , said while the team was confident of lifting the Cup it was always guarding against complacency . " Anything is possible in sports and I was hoping that we continue that form as we were playing good cricket...I knew that we had the firepower to finish the game easily , " Tendulkar , who has featured in a record six World Cups , said . India lifted the World Cup after a gap of 28 years in Mumbai and Tendulkar felt the team peaked at the right time . " We did n't start off as well. We were either not bowling well or battling well. Put together as a package we were not clicking. If we batted well , we did not bowl well and if we bowled well , batting was not up to the mark. We started peaking at the right time and both started becoming a formidable package. Obviously we fielded well also , " he said . Heaping praise on the entire 2011 team , the ace cricketer said all the players performed well and were aggressive . " Ashish Nehra , Munaf ( Patel ) , Zaheer ( Khan ) , Harbhajan ( Singh ) ...they were all aggressive and you got to hold these guys back. It matters how you show your aggression , " Tendulkar , the most successful batsman in ICC 's pinnacle event with 2,278 runs in 45 matches , including 482 in nine games in India 's successful campaign in the 2011 World Cup , said . " Viru is a very unpredictable batsman. The opposition would not know what he was going to do. Standing at the non-strikers end , I had started to figure out what he was going to do. For Yuvraj , something happened right from the first game and that continued till the last game. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
