World Cup 2015 : Aaqib targets Pakistan 's tactless batting The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 3 , 2015 , 09.19AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NAPIER : This little town of 61,000 by the Pacific Ocean is experiencing a heat wave. So is the Pakistan team , which reached here late on Monday evening after a seven-hour flight from Brisbane . Misbah-ul Haq 's men managed to stave off the threat from Zimbabwe , and their next opponents -the UAE -are unlikely to offer a strong challenge. But given the shoddy display of the team in the World Cup here , UAE are fancying their chances.Their Pakistani coach , Aaqib Javed , said this was the best chance for his team to put it across the 1992 champions . " Have you seen Pakistan 's batting ? It 's amateurish. They do n't have a clue about handling pressure. Pakistan are favourites against us because of their pedigree , but if we have to beat one of the big teams in this World Cup , this is our chance , " Aaqib told TOI on the sidelines of UAE 's practice session on Monday . The batting is indeed a real worry for Pakistan , with the top-order failing thrice in succession. Even against Zimbabwe , things seemed to be turning tricky for Pakistan. " The conditions in Australia and New Zealand are not easy. The top order has lost confidence and it 's difficult for them to come out of that mental state , " Misbah-ul Haq said . The likes of Younis Khan , Ahmed Shehzad and Umar Akmal have consistently failed to come good. One more false step could see Pakistan out of the competition. Aaqib , despite being in charge of UAE , ca n't help but feel for the team he has been so deeply attached with. " The first thing they should do is to include wicketkeeper Sar fraz Ahmed. And I do n't know why they are dropping the leggie Yasir Shah. Two leggies ( the other being Shahid Afridi ) can make all the difference , " Aaqib said . Ehsan Adil , one of Pakistan 's medium-pacers , is injured and there was speculation that mystery spinner Saeed Ajmal may be called in. But sources said that no such step had been taken. " Adil is recuperating , we are not calling Ajmal , " an official with the Pakistan team said later in the evening . It 's for the bowlers to keep delivering if Pakistan are to find a safe passage to the quarters. " ( Mohammad ) Irfan is an asset. Even Imran Khan would have played Irfan in every game in that 1992 team. He has the height , he gets the bounce. And Wahab Riaz and Sohail Khan are fantastic bowlers , " Aaqib said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
