Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 He was being asked to articulate the emotions of defeat , a defeat by the slightest of margins , at a time when it was still too recent and too bitter. He did his best , but he likely conveyed with his demeanour more than he could with his words the deep sorrow he felt at the end of another , ill-fated South African World Cup campaign . Finally , he was asked whether this was the worst he had felt on a cricket field , and he answered , simply , frankly , " Yes. " That single syllable spoke more eloquently than any of his deeper and more reasoned answers. This was the nadir of de Villiers ' career as South Africa captain : His deep belief in his team 's ability to win under any circumstances had been tested and even shaken , and he found the dissolution of his hopes almost too much to bear . He was asked whether it would eventually make him feel better , make the loss more endurable , that he had been part of one of the World Cup 's greatest games . " It does n't make me feel better at all , " he said. " My goal is to win games of cricket , to take glory home , and make a difference in the nation 's heart and hope , and we did n't achieve that , and it hurts quite a bit. I 'm gutted. We had our chances and did n't take them . " Lots of people back home were supporting us. We think of all of them , and it 's so bad. We wanted to take that trophy back home , but life moves on , the sun will come up tomorrow. " De Villiers ' disappointment was greatly increased by knowing South Africa had the winning of the game. A crucial dropped catch , when Farhaad Berhadien and JP Duminy collided in the outfield , gave an amazing let-off to Grant Elliott , who went on to make 84 not out and hit the winning runs . More personally , de Villiers botched his attempt to run out Corey Anderson , who went on to make 58 , in an incident which might have changed the trajectory of the match . " It 's one of the moments , " he said , " We had several chances to win the game tonight , and it was not the only chance . " I tried my best to catch the ball , I did n't , and life moves on. We had our chances after that but if you want to see it that way , that I cost us the match , I 'll take it. " The match came down to a final over from which New Zealand needed 12 runs and which de Villiers allocated to his veteran fast bowler Dale Steyn . " We discussed every single ball , " de Villiers said. " Yorker , slower ball , hard length. We were trying everything . " Elliott was walking across the wicket quite a bit trying to use the pace. He wants you to go for a yorker so he can use the pace down to the boundary. We decided to go length so he 'd play and miss at it , and he played one of the best shots of his life , probably the best. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
