World Cup 2015 : Afghanistan in search of England shock The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 12 , 2015 , 11.53AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Afghanistan believe they 've still " got a scare " left in them ahead of their World Cup finale against England in Sydney on Friday . Remarkably , both sides will go into the match with exactly the same number of points after enjoying a win apiece over Scotland , like Afghanistan a non-Test side . While Afghanistan 's one-wicket defeat of Scotland was the latest chapter in a remarkable rise that has taken them from the lowest rung of international cricket to the game 's showpiece tournament in barely seven years , for England victory over their neighbours could n't salvage another wretched World Cup . Australia ( 111 runs ) , New Zealand ( eight wickets ) and Sri Lanka ( nine wickets ) all inflicted thumping Pool A defeats upon Eoin Morgan 's team , while Monday saw Bangladesh display greater nerve and skill in a winner-takes-all clash for a quarterfinal place with a 15-run victory in Adelaide . Now Afghanistan coach Andy Moles wants his free-spirited side , featuring pacemen Hamid Hassan and Shapoor Zadran , as well as several hard-hitting batsmen , to pile on the agony . " They ( England ) are not in the best of nick at the moment and we still believe that , if at the top of the order with the bat especially , we just need to show a bit more composure , we 've still got a scare in us , " said Moles . " If we can play well and hold our nerve on Friday , and we need to be at our very , very best and we need England not to be at their best , we can get a shock , " the former Warwickshire batsman added . England looked anxious during a run-chase that ended with them all out for 260 trying to overhaul Bangladesh 's 275 for seven . By contrast , Moles said his players ' unrestrained approach held the key to an upset . " I think it 's just the freedom of play. It 's one thing I 've tried to allow to happen and enhance... they must play the Afghan way. " Victory in Afghanistan 's first one-day international against England would be a feather in Moles 's cap . " I suppose inevitably it is , " he said. " Coaching is a thankless task at times and when things do n't go well it is a lonely place to be , " he said in an acknowledgement of the criticism engulfing England counterpart Peter Moores . Afghanistan suffered a World Cup record 275-run defeat by Australia last week but England have no fast bowlers to compare with Mitchell Starc and Mitchell Johnson , who shared six wickets between them in Perth . England will be without opening batsman Moeen Ali ( side strain ) and all-rounder Chris Woakes ( foot ) after the pair injured themselves in Adelaide . Their absence should see off-spinner James Tredwell and all-rounder Ravi Bopara making their first appearance each of this World Cup . Recent experience shows just how dangerous the last match of a tournament can be for an already knocked-out England side . England , in a display of rank incompetence even by their standards , were dismissed for just 88 in a 45-run World Twenty20 hammering by the Netherlands in Chittagong last year -- a defeat that cost Ashley Giles his position as England 's limited overs coach Now Afghanistan are looking to follow in the footsteps of their fellow non-Test nation , albeit in a different format . " First and foremost , because of the ( Bangladesh ) result the other night , you want to get back on the horse quite quickly and put in a performance , " said England all-rounder Chris Jordan . Recalling the Dutch debacle in Chittagong , Jordan , who played in that game , added : " It 's times like those that help you get up in the morning and get back on that horse . " They ( Afghanistan ) do n't have anything to lose. It 's not a game we will be taking lightly at all. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
