World Cup 2015 : Afghanistan 'not scared ' of Australia , says Nabi The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 3 , 2015 , 02.20PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 PERTH : Afghanistan captain Mohammad Nabi has insisted his side are " not scared " of Australia heading into Wednesday 's ICC World Cup 2015 clash in Perth . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " We are not scared of them , but we respect them because they have good attacking bowlers and good quality batsmen and fielders as well , " Nabi told reporters at the WACA ground on Tuesday . Afghanistan have provided one of the most compelling stories of this World Cup , with their thrilling one-wicket win over Scotland in Dunedin last time out one of the highlights of the competition so far . But the pace and bounce of the WACA pitch has troubled far more experienced overseas batsmen than are in the Afghanistan line-up and Australia have the fast bowlers to make the most of the conditions . International Cricket Council chief executive David Richardson warned last week that the four non-Test or Associate countries taking part in the tournament had yet to face their toughest assignments at the World Cup . They do n't come much harder than playing Australia in Perth but Nabi was heartened by the way his side had improved since their lone previous one-day international meeting . Three years ago , Australia beat Afghanistan by 66 runs in Sharjah , a match where Nabi made 46 before being bowled by left-arm quick Mitchell Johnson . " We played against Australia in Sharjah. They scored 272 and we scored 206 , " said Nabi . " It was a quite good experience against them. Our team now is better from that time. " Amid much debate about the ICC 's plans to reduce the number of teams taking part at the 2019 World Cup in England to 10 , Australia captain Michael Clarke insisted teams such as Afghanistan were worth their place . And Nabi said his side were no longer star-struck when they came up against the world 's best players . " When you 're first playing with the big teams and also with the big names , we got really excited , " he said. " Now we 're used to with them. " Afghanistan assistant coach Peter Anderson said on Wednesday 's match gave the tournament newcomers a chance to showcase their talent . " We 've come off a win against Scotland , so that 's given the boys a lot of confidence , " said Anderson . " We know we 're up against one of the best teams in the world and certainly arguably the best pace attack , " added Anderson , who played Australian first-class cricket as a wicketkeeper for Queensland and South Australia . " It 's a shot for us , it 's an opportunity for us to show the cricketing public of the world what talent we have in Afghanistan , and I know the boys will do themselves very proud. " Afghanistan 's task is made all the harder by the fact Australia have still to secure a quarter-final place and come into this match on the back of a dramatic one-wicket Pool A defeat by fellow tournament co-hosts New Zealand in Auckland last weekend . " They 'll be up to redeem themselves from the New Zealand situation , " said Anderson . " Our goal is to get out there and bat 50 overs and make it very competitive. You never know. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
