World Cup 2015 : All eyes on 'local derby' The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 28 , 2015 , 08.47AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : The Aussies are calling it the 'local derby ' and they are spot on. The battle of the hosts is truly the talk of the town and not without reason. Australia and New Zealand are well matched in every department of the game and many feel this clash is a stage rehearsal for the World Cup final on March 29 . However , immediate issues need to be addressed - the first is to top the group to ensure a relatively weaker opponent in the quarterfinals. Eden Park 's short straight boundaries are extremely tempting for the hitters on both sides of the fence and New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum is definitely one of them. For quite a while during practice on Friday , he showed teammate Luke Ronchi how to tee off at the golf course. Quite clearly , the straight hitting on Saturday will be in the tee-off mode and McCullum 's contest with the likes of David Warner and Aaron Finch could become the highlight of the match . McCullum , though , toned it down by saying it 's not just about Warner. " There are other players in their lineup. How can you discount guys like Michael Clarke or Steve Smith. It 's just a very good team we are up against , but I do n't think it is more than a group game. It 's about the points and nothing else , " McCullum said . New Zealand are going with an unchanged team while Australia have two changes that won against England - Clarke coming back in place of George Bailey and Pat Cummins replacing John Hazelwood. Star Kiwi paceman Tim Southee has recovered from a shoulder injury. " He bowled well today. He 's through his works , so I would expect him to play. We are going to play the same team. So yes , so far so good with the injuries , " McCullum said . There was an afternoon shower on Friday in Auckland , just ahead of the Australian practice session , and Clarke sounded worried. " I hate to look at these raindrops. But I think the forecast is pretty good for tomorrow , " he said.. There 's been a lot of talk about sledging and mind-games but both Clarke and McCullum spoke about the respect that the teams have for each other. " I have gone through all the reports and they have been quite respectful of our bunch , " McCullum said and he was complimented by Clarke. " I have told my boys that over the years , I have never played a game against New Zealand which has been one-sided. They always give their best and I do n't expect anything less on Saturday , " Clarke said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
