Rohit came good with the career-defining knock against Bangladesh. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : If the ball is hit for a six and it looks like a big one , you 're probably at the MCG. If it 's Rohit Sharma hitting it , then you know it for sure. There were as many as three , and each was as lofty as you can ever hope to see . READ ALSO : India thrash Bangladesh to enter semifinals The three big hits came along with 14 delectable boundaries in a total of 137 runs that eventually won the Mumbai batsman his first World Cup century and a Man-of-the-Match award. It came eight years after his debut , four years since missing the last World Cup , seven matches into this edition and took him 126 balls to get there . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 When he did , with a gentle push through the covers , Rohit took a deep breath , jogged casually towards the batting end , and leapt , pumping his right fist in sheer joy. He then took off his helmet and smiled. The smile underlined the moment he 'd been waiting for . It was n't blind hitting at any stage. Rohit took 70 balls for his first fifty and 108 balls to complete the ton. But it was in the last 18 balls of his innings that he changed the complexion of the game , hitting 35 runs off it . As skipper MS Dhoni later explained , " The pitch had variable bounce and the ball kept slow unlike the second innings when it got faster and made batting relatively easy. " When he was n't busy playing his strokes , Rohit rotated the strike , playing second fiddle to Suresh Raina who found it easier to go for his strokes . " He likes to take his time and settle down before playing his shots , " Dhoni said , highlighting why he has pursued with Rohit for a while now in the opener 's slot . Once Rohit had settled down , all Dhoni did was give his younger teammate as much strike as possible. Rohit 's return to this kind of form ticks another box for India. With Ravindra Jadeja also providing the finishing touches to Thursday innings and impressing in the field , there 's little the skipper can ask for right now . Dhoni was asked about the changes he found in 'Rohit of 2015 ' and 'Rohit of 2011'. " If I have to go back four years , it wo n't be a realistic comparison , the reason being he was not really opening for us at that point of time. We felt that it was a bit of waste of talent if he was batting at 6 for us because more often than not he was not getting enough chance to bat , as our top-order was quite fixed. We could n't really make him play or give him enough opportunities. " Rohit had waited long for that chance which Dhoni gave him. He finally came good with the career-defining knock on Thursday . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
