Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 After being sent into bat by Zimbabwe in their Pool B encounter on a ground with small boundaries and a fast outfield , UAE first of all easily surpassed their previous best facing a Test nation of 204 against Bangladesh in 2008 . They then also registered their highest-ever overall one-day total by passing the 282 they made against Afghanistan last year . For the weekend warriors from the UAE , who survive on limited international cricket and whose only other World Cup appearance was nearly 20 years ago , there were special elements . It was a personal best score for Anwar , the 35-year-old Pakistan-born player in his eighth international . He reached 50 with the first six of the match , driving Tinashe Panyangara over the bowler 's head and into the sightscreen . His partnership of 82 with Swapnil Patil ( 32 ) was a UAE record for the fifth wicket . At the tail , Amjad Javed ( not out 25 ) and Mohammad Naveed ( not out 23 ) produced their highest scores and their unbeaten eighth-wicket partnership of 53 was also a UAE record . With 43-year-old Khurram Khan contributing 45 , along with 34 from Krishna Chandran , UAE did enough with the bat to show they were not daunted by the professional Zimbabwe attack . Zimbabwe won the toss and elected to bowl with the same line up that performed credibly against South Africa , despite a 62-run loss , in their first game in Hamilton on Sunday . However , against the lowly-ranked UAE side their bowlers could not generate the same venom and their cause was not helped by fielding lapses . UAE opener Andri Berenger , received a life on the first ball he faced which was edged and dropped by Brendan Taylor behind the stumps . Taylor made no mistake two overs later only for Berenger to be called back when replays showed Tendai Chatara had over-stepped with his delivery stride . While Berenger lived dangerously , it was the more sedate Amjad Ali at the other end who was the first wicket to fall when he feathered Chatara to Craig Ervine at second slip and was gone for seven . Solomon Mire winkled out Berenger for 22 , tempting him with a short-pitched delivery and the hook shot was edged through to Taylor . At 40-2 in the 11th over , Khurram and Chandran set about rebuilding the innings . Rotating the strike on a diet of singles , with the occasional boundary , they put on 82 for the third wicket when Mira removed Chandran with the first ball of his third spell . Khurram departed soon after for 45 , cutting the ball to Sean Williams at point to give Chatara his second wicket . Chatara was the most successful Zimbabwe bowler with three for 42 . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
