World Cup 2015 : Sterner South African test lies ahead for Indian attack The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 18 , 2015 , 08.18AM IST Next up for India on Sunday would be South Africa , whose batting line-up can send a chill down the spine of any bowling unit. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Though Team India would be reasonably satisfied with the performance of their bowlers in the World Cup opener against Pakistan on Sunday , sterner tests lie ahead . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Next up for India on Sunday would be South Africa , whose batting line-up can send a chill down the spine of any bowling unit . To put things in perspective , captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni has cautioned his bowlers that they wo n't have the luxury of defending a 300-plus score every single time. " Yes , we were able to post 300 this time. But we must realize that if bowling first , we will have to keep the opposition down to the range of 240-260 for the batsmen to have a realistic chance of chasing down that target , " Dhoni had said after the victory over Pakistan . Against Pakistan , Mohammed Shami grabbed four wickets. Umesh Yadav and Mohit Sharma bagged two each while R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja also chipped in with a wicket apiece . The performance against Pakistan , however , was an exception. Indian bowling , of late , has been a study in inconsistency . In the tri-series preceding the World Cup , India 's bowling attack looked very unsettled. Stuart Binny started off with the new ball while Axar Patel was the main spinner . To be fair , Dhoni 's experiment was due to the injuries suffered by Ishant Sharma , Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Ravindra Jadeja. Ashwin was kept on the sidelines . With every loss , as pressure grew on the Indian captain , he chose to stress on the process . " What is more important right now is the process than the result , " was Dhoni 's common refrain during the post-match news conferences during the tri-series . " We are making an effort to win the matches. But we want to try out players who have n't had much international exposure. We are making an honest effort but at the same time we are executing a plan and in that process we sometimes lose some matches , " was his standard reply . It was only in the second warm-up match against Afghanistan in Adelaide that Dhoni chose to use five frontline bowlers , leaving Binny and Bhuvi out . That match gave an indication of what the bowling combination Dhoni had in mind for the opening match against Pakistan. And as luck would have it , it worked well for the team . As Ishant failed to prove his fitness , it was apparent that Mohit was in the scheme of things for Dhoni , more so after the Haryana pacer had a good showing in Perth . The three seamers , Shami , Yadav and Mohit , were well supported by Ashwin and Jadeja and it proved to be a wise move. Going into the next few matches , India are likely to stick to the winning combination except in the event of an injury , in which case Dhoni will have the option of falling back on Bhuvi among the pacers and Axar Patel among spinners . Axar was , in fact , the pick of the bowlers during the tri-series but he failed to do enough with the bat to challenge Ravindra Jadeja 's position in the team. Besides being a handy batsman and a wily spinner , Jadeja is a livewire on the field and he retained his place in the XI after being declared fit . " Yes , there seems to be a semblance of order on the bowling front , which was the weak link in the Indian team. But then it is too early to say if we have the winning combination. Three pacers and two spinners seems to be the right combination for the upcoming games , " a Team India official said . " Come Sunday , India will face a sterner test against a highly rated team. South Africa will test India to the hilt in all departments. And India will have to raise their games several notches than against Pakistan to be able to challenge the Proteas , " said the official . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
