World Cup 2015 : Aussie aboriginals back India to win The author has posted comments on this article Kounteya Sinha , TNN | Mar 26 , 2015 , 11.00AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Michael Parkins grew up with the Waugh brothers. Many believe he was equally good if not better in cricket than them during their high school years . But having come from an aboriginal background with little opportunities , Michael had to sacrifice his love for the " beautiful game " in order to pursue a career that could be called stable . Michael was adopted when young and raised by a non-aboriginal family. But when he turned 20 , he traced back his original family to Western New South Wales. Even today , his eyes lights up while talking about cricket . When asked who would win the Thursday semifinal , he said : " Though I am a die-hard fan of the Australian cricket team , I sincerely want the best team to win. And as far as Thursday 's match is concerned , I 'm afraid that India is looking very good and the best team in the tournament. It is highly likely they will lift the cup. " Michael said that among the Waugh brothers , the lesser known Dean Waugh was his best mate and added : " India has picked up its game right at the business end of the tournament and has got better through it. India has adapted tremendously to this format and will dictate terms in Sydney . " Michael who recently became the first general manager of aboriginal background of the National Indigenous Training Academy at Ayers Rock , strongly believes that India 's vice-captain Virat Kohli 's performance will be the key to India 's success . " Kohli is my favourite. He dictates the terms of the game when he plays in full flow. He is a magnificent cricketer and will be India 's trump card , " said Michael who now spends most of his life working for aboriginal community told TOI in the northern territory of Australia . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
