World Cup 2015 : Aussies , Sri Lanka out to avoid knockout collision with Proteas The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 7 , 2015 , 12.03PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Australia and Sri Lanka will be angling to avoid a potential World Cup quarterfinal collision with South Africa as they face off in a crucial Pool A showdown on Sunday . The 1996 winners Sri Lanka lead the Aussies by one point in the group standings and a win would clinch second spot in the pool behind leaders New Zealand . But a defeat for either nation at the Sydney Cricket Ground would increase the possibility of finishing third in the group and thereby the likelihood of encountering the AB de Villiers-charged Proteas in the knockout round . The heat is on Michael Clarke 's Australians to defuse Sri Lanka 's batting arsenal after going down by one wicket to New Zealand last weekend . " A side that has won every one of their games , maybe they do n't have to worry too much , " Sri Lanka 's batting leviathan Kumar Sangakkara said . " But when you 're not in that situation , you might start thinking about who you 'll face in the quarterfinals and whether these wins have any bearing on what happens there . " For us as well as Australia , it 'll be a very important game. " Australia , coming off a record 275-run thrashing of Afghanistan in Perth on Wednesday , will be favourites at the SCG to extend their World Cup dominance over Sri Lanka . The Australians have beaten Sri Lanka six times in eight matches , including victory in the 2007 final in Barbados , while the Sri Lankans beat them in the 1996 tournament decider in Lahore . " I think Sri Lanka are going to be a really tough team to beat , " Clarke said . " They like the SCG and they 're playing some really good cricket. They 've got experience and I think that 's always an important part of a good team in major tournaments. " Sri Lanka smashed the third-highest run chase in tournament history to clinch a nine-wicket win over England in Wellington last Sunday . Centuries by Sangakkara and Lahiru Thirimanne ensured Sri Lanka reeled in the 310-run target , scoring 312-1 with 16 balls to spare . Sangakkara 's 117 was his second successive century and his 23rd century in 401 one-day internationals. He will bid farewell to limited-overs cricket after the World Cup . Australia , vying to win their fifth World Cup , dropped out-of-form veteran Shane Watson for returning all-rounder James Faulkner , promoted Steve Smith to No.3 and hit the highest World Cup score of 417-6 against the hapless Afghans . " They 're one of the top teams in the tournament ... we will play as the underdogs , " Sangakkara admitted . " They had a poor game against New Zealand , but bounced back strongly. Every side has got weaknesses and strengths , but Australia are a very strong side. " Australia have a strong record at the SCG , but Sri Lanka have beaten them four times in 13 encounters at the famous ground and possess the formidable batting of Sangakkara , Mahela Jayawardene , Tillakaratne Dilshan , Angelo Mathews and Thirimanne to trouble any bowling attack . Sri Lanka have confirmed spinner Rangana Herath will miss the game with a finger injury while batsman Dimuth Karunaratne suffered a tournament-ending broken finger batting in the nets . Legendary spinner Muttiah Muralitharan , who worked as a spin consultant for Australia last year , said Sri Lanka have nothing to fear from Australia . " The team has had a full week to rest up and prepare for the match against Australia while , for Michael Clarke 's side , it will be a third game in nine days , " he said . " Sri Lanka have three wins in a row , two of them with outstanding batting displays , should make the dressing room a good place to be and once again Sri Lanka are set to be a threat at the business end of a major event. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
