World Cup 2015 : Australia call-up Steve Waugh for words of wisdom The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 18 , 2015 , 01.45PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Australia have called up former captain Steve Waugh for advice as they prepare for the World Cup quarterfinal against Pakistan at the Adelaide Oval on Friday . Waugh , 49 , a veteran of four World Cups and part of the winning squad twice in 1987 and as captain in 1999 , had a dinner meeting with the entire squad on Tuesday night and was also present at the nets on Wednesday . " It was good to sit down over dinner with him and just chat about cricket and World Cups , " opening batsman Aaron Finch revealed . " He 's obviously captained a winning one and played in another one as well. There are not many better-credentialed players to talk to about it. Guys just threw a few questioned at him. " Finch said Waugh told them playing -- and doing well -- under pressure was expected from international teams especially when it came to a knock-out game like the one on Friday . " The beauty with our team is that we do n't fear losing , " he said. " Yes it 's a knock-out , but as soon as you 're worried about losing a game you tighten up and you do n't play with your natural flair . " Steve was great with his chat last night. He said there is a reason why there is pressure because you are expected to perform and you are expected to do well . " So we 're excited about that challenge and we 're not fazed about losing. " Finch , a hard-hitting opening batsman , said he sought out Waugh to discuss batting tactics following a lean trot after smashing 135 off 12 balls in the opening match against England . Since then he made 14 , 4 , 24 , 20 in the four remaining games after the match against Bangladesh was washed out without a ball being bowled in Brisbane . The Victorian said he was hitting the ball well in the nets and felt confident of facing up to Pakistan . " I felt like I have been playing nicely in the nets , " he said. " It has not translated into runs over the past couple of games but I 'm not too bothered about it . " Getting the hundred in the first game against England gives you confidence going into a big game. There was a huge build-up to that first clash. I 'm still very confident going into Friday. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
