World Cup 2015 : Australia coach tips high-scoring semifinal with India The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 24 , 2015 , 10.47AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Australia coach Darren Lehmann believes the Sydney Cricket Ground pitch will produce a high-scoring World Cup semifinal against India on Thursday . " I think the Sydney pitch will be very similar to the one we used in the game against Sri Lanka more than a fortnight ago when almost 700 runs were scored , so I think this will be another high-scoring affair , " Lehmann wrote in a column on Cricket Australia 's website ( cricket.com.au ) on Tuesday . Australia won the March 8 pool game against Sri Lanka convincingly , setting a mammoth 376-9 for their opponents to chase before bowling them out in a 64-run victory . Sri Lanka returned to the venue for the quarterfinal against South Africa a week ago and were trounced by nine wickets after their batsmen were skittled for 133 . The SCG has traditionally offered something for spinners , but paceman Josh Hazlewood said the pitch served up for Australia 's match against Sri Lanka had offered little variation either way . Australia will hope for a green tinge on the SCG wicket to give their pacemen as much help as possible against India 's formidable batting lineup . India have drawn big crowds of blue-clad fans at every venue and can expect prominent support at the SCG . Lehmann called on local fans to come out in force and be in full voice to ensure Australia 's players felt the support . " Hopefully the SCG is packed with gold as all the Australian venues have been throughout our campaign , and we get a huge lift by seeing so many fans getting behind us . " But from what I 've seen at other games in this World Cup , I suspect there will be a very loud and proud Indian turn-out at Thursday 's game so I urge you all to bring your flags , wave them hard and often and provide some really visible and vocal home town support . " Now it 's a matter of who plays well on the day. India are really starting to gain some confidence on the back of some good performances since the tournament began , and that fact that we know them inside out -- just as they do us -- adds an extra element to what already looms as an enthralling contest. " The winner of Thursday 's semifinal will battle either South Africa or co-hosts New Zealand in Sunday 's final at the Melbourne Cricket Ground . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
