World Cup 2015 : Australia favourites against India , says Hayden The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Mar 25 , 2015 , 04.56PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Ahead of the do-or-die ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 semifinal between India and Australia , former explosive opening batsman Matthew Hayden was on Wednesday confident that the co-hosts will beat India to enter the final . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " Obviously I think Australia will defeat India , " Hayden , member of Australia 's World Cup winning squads in 2003 and 2007 , was quoted as saying by news.com.au on Wednesday . The 43-year-old said India 's two spinners Ravichandran Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja will play a big part on Thursday considering the Sydney Cricket Ground ( SCG ) pitch which might assist the spinners . " I 've been impressed with the Indian bowling line-up. They 're particularly strong in the spin department with Ravi Jadeja and Ashwin and those two could be the key to the game , " Hayden said . The left-handed batsman also stressed that although Indian pacers have been bowling well , they have n't been exposed in the earlier matches and they will be against Australia . " While their pace battery has been performing admirably during the tournament , they have n't been exposed and I think they will be against Australia , " Hayden said . He also said that Suresh Raina and skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni will play a big part in the game and can be dangerous . " With the bat I can see Suresh Raina and MS Dhoni playing a big part. Even if Australia takes quick wickets at the start of the game these two can be very dangerous. The conditions will suit them both , " he said . When asked to analyze India 's overall performance in the mega event , he said , " It 's hard to get a read on India 's performance in the group stage because I do n't think they were really tested. The South Africa game did n't really go down to the wire and they got the Proteas on a really bad day. " Speaking on the pressure that would be on the high-voltage clash , he said , " India have won all their games convincingly , the SCG will suit them and in a semi-final where it 's all on the line there 's equal pressure on both sides. But they 've been hammered by Australia all summer. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
