World Cup 2015 : Australia fear nothing , even defeat , says Finch The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 6 , 2015 , 12.07PM IST Australia have such depth in their squad that they were able to drop stalwart all-rounder Shane Watson for their record 275-run victory over Afghanistan on Wednesday. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Australia are not sweating on Sunday 's crunch Pool A match against Sri Lanka , even if defeat at the Sydney Cricket Ground would make their path to the final more difficult , opener Aaron Finch said on Friday . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 After losing to New Zealand and taking just a point from their washed out match against Bangladesh , Australia probably need to beat Sri Lanka to ensure they finish in the top two in the pool and avoid India or South Africa in the last eight . " I do n't think it matters who you play , to win the World Cup you have to beat the best teams in the world , " Finch told reporters . " This is a big game , it 's important. You do n't want to finish in the bottom two in your group , it does make it a little bit harder in your path to the final , if you go that far . " But , in general , we 've been playing some really good cricket lately so it 's not something we 're afraid of. We 're not afraid of losing , we think that if we stick to the basics , we can get the job done. " Australia have such depth in their squad that they were able to drop stalwart all-rounder Shane Watson for their record 275-run victory over Afghanistan on Wednesday . Although Finch scored a century against England in Australia 's World Cup opener , he followed that with innings of 14 against New Zealand and four against the Afghans in Perth . He admitted to being nervous before every match but was not at all concerned about his form . " I think I 'm playing well , I guess a poor decision in Auckland , a half-decent ball and a nothing kind of shot in Perth , " he said . " So there 's a few things to work on , but I still think I 'm hitting the ball well , I 'm batting well in the nets , I 'm training as well as I can . " So I think it 's only a matter of time before I get runs again , hopefully it 's sooner rather than later. " The 28-year-old showed his value to the team as a fielder on Wednesday after replacing Watson at first slip and taking a stunning catch to dismiss Afghanistan 's Nawroz Mangal off the bowling of Mitchell Johnson . " I think I made it look better than it was , " he laughed. " It was a nice height for a diving catch and a nice pace. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
