World Cup 2015 : Australia-New Zealand final revives 'underarm ' memories The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 27 , 2015 , 04.08PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Whatever happens in Sunday 's World Cup final between Australia and New Zealand at the Melbourne Cricket Ground , it will have to go some way to matching the bitter fall-out from another one-day international clash between the two countries at the MCG back in 1981 . What might have been a forgettable third final of the one-day series produced one of the most controversial finishes of all-time when , with New Zealand needing six to tie off the last ball , Australia captain Greg Chappell instructed younger brother Trevor to role the ball underarm along the ground . Angry New Zealand tailender Brian McKechnie , who was on strike , threw his bat away in disgust and Greg Chappell 's decision brought forth a torrent of criticism . New Zealand 's then Prime Minister , Robert Muldoon , said the delivery was " an act of true cowardice and I consider it appropriate that the Australian team were wearing yellow " . Meanwhile former Australia captain Ian Chappell , Greg and Ian 's older brother , said : " Fair dinkum , Greg. How much pride do you sacrifice to win AUD 35,000 ? " Trevor Chappell said he " thought ( the underarm ) delivery was a pretty good idea at the time " even though " obviously it was n't in the spirit of the game " . Last year , Trevor Chappell , who after he retired took up coaching roles with Sri Lanka , Bangladesh and Singapore , as well as in Australian schools , told the Cricinfo website : " People probably would n't remember me ( if the underarm incident had n't happened ) . " But Greg Chappell , who has often spoken of his regret at involving Trevor , said the first time he realised the impact of his decision was shortly after match ended . " One little girl ran beside me and tugged on my sleeve and said , 'You cheated ' , " he recalled. " That was ( when ) I knew it would be bigger than I expected. " Pressure of Packer series - Greg Chappell said the 'underarm ' had come about because of the pressure he felt arising from Australia 's relentless schedule in the years immediately after the split with media businessman Kerry Packer 's 'rebel ' World Series Cricket came to an end . " The underarm had very little to do with winning that game of cricket , because , in fact , we 'd won the game , " said Chappell , now Cricket Australia 's national talent manager . " They were n't going to get six off the last ball of the game . " It was my statement. My cry for help was : 'You 're not listening. This might help you sit up and take notice ' , " added Chappell , whose post-playing career was marked by a controversial spell as coach of India . But while it did little for Greg Chappell 's cause , McKechnie , speaking to New Zealand 's Television Three , yesterday , said the incident had helped establish cricket 's place in a rugby-mad country -- something he was well-placed to appreciate as a dual international who kicked a winning penalty late on for the All Blacks against Wales in Cardiff in 1978 . " It was huge for cricket in New Zealand , cricket took on a new interest almost so that was great and I think it 's also helped this trans-Tasman rivalry , it 's great to play Australia now so that 's good for sport in general. " New Zealand beat Australia in the first round phase of the 1992 World Cup , the last time the two countries co-hosted the tournament . But with New Zealand having defeated Australia , albeit by just one wicket , at Auckland 's Eden Park in the pool stages of this World Cup , McKechnie said expectations among Black Caps fans of victory on Sunday had now reached new heights . " All of a sudden it 's a game unlike '92 when we were n't expected to win that game whereas this one there 's an expectation now because of the way this team is playing , " added McKechnie , who after his on-field sports career ended became a Canterbury and then a New Zealand cricket selector . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
