World Cup 2015 : Australia tour helping India , says Gary Kirsten The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Feb 19 , 2015 , 04.07PM IST Kirsten feels the time spent in Australia will aid India in defending the World Cup crown. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Former India cricket coach Gary Kirsten believes that the tour of Australia had helped the defending champions to get acclimatised to the World Cup conditions Down Under . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 India spent two-and-a-half months in the Australian summer , playing four Tests and a tri-series involving hosts Australia and England. The team fared dismally , losing the Test series 0-2 and not even managing a single win in the tri-series . The South African , however , feels the time spent there will aid India in defending the World Cup crown . " I would like to think that the time spent there will come as an advantage. You are getting two and a half months of game time in those conditions. It has got to help your game , " Kirsten , who guided India to the 2011 World Cup victory at home , said . " The only thing is time away from home and that is also a factor you can not discount. It is n't easy travelling like that. But to have a chance to kind of play all your cricket where the World Cup is going to be held has got to be quite an advantage , surely , " said the 47-year-old . Kirsten 's words are proving to be right. India started their campaign on a winning note when they drubbed arch-rivals Pakistan by 76 runs in their World Cup opener at the Adelaide Oval Feb 15 . The triumph helped them keep a perfect tennis scoreline of 6-0 in World Cup meetings against the 1992 champions. India next face South Africa at the Melbourne Cricket Ground ( MCG ) Sunday . But does n't spending so much time away from home bring on fatigue ? " Mental fatigue may be. They could freshen up and see their families but not physical fatigue. We are in the professional era and you have got to manage that , " said Kirsten , who played 101 Test matches and 185 One-Day Internationals ( ODI ) from 1993 to 2004 . The former left-handed opening batsman insisted on the importance of squad rotation . " We run squad systems now. You rest your key players when you need to. You are running a squad and not just eleven players who you bring in and out of every game. Those days are over. It does n't happen anymore. Managing the squad is the key. " Kirsten is in India for the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) players ' auction which took place in Bengaluru on Monday. The South African is the head coach of the Delhi Daredevils . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
