World Cup 2015 : Backroom boys of Team India are the unsung heroes The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 27 , 2015 , 09.26AM IST India have the biggest support staff among World Cup teams. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 PERTH : There used to be a time when cricket was merely a game , and the Indian team had just one coach and a manager to accompany the players on a long tour. Those days are long gone , and now Team India has a large retinue of coaching and support staff - almost as many as the players themselves . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 India , in fact , have the biggest support staff among World Cup teams. Teams like Australia and South Africa have , at best , around eight or 10 support-staff members. India have 15 . These backroom specialists have been playing a big role in keeping the players fit and ready to play throughout the four long months they have been in Australia. They have attended to players in the sick bay and provided personalized attention.The support staff 's biggest challenge has been to help players overcome injuries . Preventing players from getting mentally fatigued and home sick , especially when things are not going well on the field , is also a big ask. With the team doing well in the initial stages of the World Cup , it 's time to acknowledge the efforts of the people who work tirelessly behind the scenes to keep the players in peak mental and physical condition . " All the hard work put in by the players , with the help of the support staff , has borne fruit. We made sure the players were never downcast when things were not going well. There were issues with injuries and home sickness. All the planning and training has ensured that the players were physically and mentally ready when the World Cup began , " a team official said on the role of the support staff , adding : " In years gone by , there used to be just a couple of managers and coaches. Now cricket has become highly professional and demanding. So the presence of a big support staff is justified. " " Some of the duties carried out by support staff members are visible on the ground , but many others only work behind closed doors . " The masseurs , the mental conditioners , the psychologists and , of course , the video analysts all work away from peering eyes. Not many outside the team know their names.Nobody 's job is more or less important but the support staff works in tandem. Each member has a clearly assigned role , " the official said . BEHIND THE CURTAIN
