World Cup 2015 : Bangladesh deny bookie links The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 24 , 2015 , 11.09AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Bangladesh on Tuesday rubbished media reports back home that seamer Al-Amin Hossain had been kicked out of the World Cup for reportedly confessing to meeting an illegal Indian bookmaker . The official statement issued on Sunday by the team management had said Hossain , 25 , was being sent home for breaking curfew rules ahead of Bangladesh 's washed-out match against Australia in Brisbane last weekend . But the Dhaka-based English language 'New Age ' newspaper and other media said Hossain had been under observation by the International Cricket Council 's Anti-Corruption and Security Unit ( ACSU ) for some time . However , the Bangladesh Cricket Board ( BCB ) 's head of media , Jalal Yunus , insisted the only charge of indiscipline against Hossain was staying out late at night and had nothing to do with any alleged corruption . " The ACSU has told us they have nothing against Hossain , but we took action because we have a no-tolerance policy for not obeying team orders , " Yunus said . " There is no truth in reports that he was sent home because of alleged links with bookies. " Media reports said the ACSU had already spoken to Hossain a few days earlier in Canberra when the team was in the Australian capital for their opening match against Afghanistan . Hossain apparently admitted knowing an unnamed Indian bookmaker whom he had met in Chennai , where he had gone to have his bowling action tested last year , but the ACSU did not bring any charges against him . However , when the seamer broke curfew rules and went out late at night in Brisbane , the team management decided to punish him and send him packing from the World Cup . The 'New Age ' quoted an unnamed official as saying that Hossain gave three different versions regarding his late-night outing when questioned by team management . " He first claimed that he went to buy a SIM card , which raised more suspicion as the player had already one with him , " the paper said . " Al-Amin then claimed that he went to a nightclub but BCB officials were not ready to accept this story either because they found it hard to believe that he will visit a nightclub alone in bad weather . " The question that spurred them most was why he had walked back to the hotel instead of taking a taxi and the player had no answer to that . " In the face of repeated questioning he finally confessed that he went to meet a bookie who dropped him close to the hotel and the decision to send him back was taken immediately , " the paper wrote . The paper quoted team manager Khaled Mahmud as saying that Hossain had confessed to his misdemeanour , but did not elaborate . " He confessed everything to me , " Mahmud told the paper. " If he was simply breaking team rules he might have got away with a fine. But this was a more serious issue , so we had no other choice but to send him back. " Hossain , who has played six Tests and 11 one-day internationals since his debut in 2013 , was replaced by seamer Shafiul Islam . Teams can only usually bring in replacements at a World Cup for injured players , but the ICC said Bangladesh 's request to call-up Shafiul Islam for Hossain had been approved as an " exceptional circumstance " . The ACSU does not comment on its day-to-day operations. Bangladesh , who beat Afghanistan in their Pool A opener , continue their World Cup campaign against Sri Lanka in Melbourne on Thursday . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
