World Cup 2015 : Bangladesh happy to prove critics wrong The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 11 , 2015 , 10.59AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 HAMILTON : Bangladesh assistant coach Ruwan Kalpage believes his team have proved a point by reaching the World Cup quarterfinals and they now have Pool A winners New Zealand in their sights in Hamilton on Friday . The Tigers knocked England out of the World Cup with a hard-fought 15-run win in Adelaide on Monday and are likely to come up against defending champions India in the last-eight . " When we arrived every game was important for us and I am pleased to see that we are already in the quarter-finals , " said Kalpage , a former Sri Lanka all-rounder . " We have proved something and I think the boys have done their homework so we want to go unbeaten into the quarter-finals from the last game. " But Kalpage admitted that New Zealand , who have five wins in five games , will be another major challenge . " The Black Caps are unbeaten at the moment but the boys are confident and ready. " Kalpage , himself a former off-break bowler , hoped the Seddon Park pitch will help the slow bowlers . " In the sub-continent the wickets help spin and with some new talent coming into the Bangladesh team they are doing well in spin . " I played my second one-dayer and got my first wicket here so I am sure spinners will do well , " said Kalpage , who took 73 wickets in 86 one-day internationals for Sri Lanka . Kalpage admitted the current tournament was tough for bowlers as totals over 300 are becoming a regular occurrence . " Not only for Bangladeshi bowlers but it has been tough for all bowlers in this tournament , " said Kalpage . " We already have totals of 300 and more so I think when you come to watch cricket people like to see big scores and the top four score big hundreds. Only in some matches have the bowlers done well. " Kalpage agreed that removing New Zealand skipper and opener Brendon McCullum , who has three fifties in five games so far , will be key . " It will be tough for our bowlers but we have a plan for him. We want to see Brendon and Kane ( Williamson ) get out early , " said Kalpage , who also singled out left-arm spinner Daniel Vettori as a dangerman . " He ( Vettori ) has proved that he is the best spin bowler in the world , he has got 300 wickets so New Zealand are very happy to have him in the team after injury . " He is more effective against right-handers and we have a combination of left and right so it will be a good test for him going into the quarter-finals. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
