World Cup 2015 : Bangladesh win toss and bat against Afghanistan The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 18 , 2015 , 09.15AM IST A Bangladesh supporter waves his national flag ahead of his team 's Cricket World Cup Pool A match against Afghanistan in Canberra. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CANBERRA : Bangladesh won the toss and chose to bat against debutants Afghanistan in their World Cup Pool A match at Canberra 's Manuka Oval on Wednesday . Scorecard " Looks like a good track. We can put up a good total , " Bangladesh captain Mashrafe Mortaza said as the match began under sunny skies . Bangladesh left out Nasir Hossain , Taijul Islam , Arafat Sunny and Al-Amin , while Afghanistan omitted Dawlat Zadran , Gulbadin Naib , Usman Ghani and Nasir Jamal . Apart from fellow Associate nation Scotland , Bangladesh is Afghanistan 's big opportunity for a win at the World Cup as they also have hosts Australia , New Zealand , Sri Lanka and England to contend with in Pool A . The Afghans want to give their war-weary homeland something to cheer and they hold hopes of upsetting Test-playing Bangladesh after shocking them in the Asia Cup in Dhaka last year . With experienced players like Nowroz Mangal , Mohammad Nabi , Samiullah Shinwari , Najibullah Zadran , Shapoor Zadran and Hamid Hasan , Afghanistan will hope they can show their talent in the big league . Bangladesh , coached by Sri Lankan Chandika Hathurusingha , will need a dramatic turn in fortunes to ensure another World Cup does not cause more misery . Bangladesh failed to register wins for most of 2014 until fellow wooden-spooners Zimbabwe came calling at the end of the year and were thrashed 3-0 in Tests and 5-0 in the one-dayers . The focal point of Bangladesh 's campaign will be the skilful all-rounder Shakib Al Hasan , who goes into his third World Cup as the ICC top-ranked all-rounder in all three formats . Teams Afghanistan - Afsar Zazai , Javed Ahmadi , Nawroz Mangal , Asghar Stanikzai , Samiullah Shenwari , Mohammad Nabi ( capt ) , Najibullah Zadran , Mirwais Ashraf , Aftab Alam , Shapoor Zadran , Hamid Hassan . Bangladesh - Tamim Iqbal , Anamul Haque , Mominul Haque , Shakib Al Hasan , Mushfiqur Rahim , Sabbir Rahman , Mohammad Mahmudullah , Mashrafe Mortaza ( capt ) , Soumya Sarkar , Rubel Hossain , Taskin Ahmed . Umpires : Steve Davis ( ENG ) , Joel Wilson ( WIS ) TV umpire : Aleem Dar ( PAK ) Match referee : Jeff Crowe ( NZL ) Weather : Sunny , possible shower. Maximum temperature 29 Celsius Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
