World Cup 2015 : Beating South Africa will give India self-belief , says Virat Kohli The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Feb 21 , 2015 , 08.29PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Vice-captain Virat Kohli on Saturday said that beating South Africa in the ICC World Cup 2015 on Sunday will give India " immense self-belief " and " momentum " that is needed to top in cricket 's showpiece event . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " If we beat them , it will give us immense self-belief that we can beat big sides come the knockouts. South Africa has been one of the top sides in the world and they have a good balance in batting and bowling and their fielding has raised standards in international cricket , " Kohli was quoted as saying by bcci.tv . " To get over that hurdle will be immense self-belief booster in many ways. We realise it is important to hold momentum in a tournament like the World Cup. We have started off on a good note and it is something that we are looking to build over the next few games. " The defending champions will face the Proteas at the Melbourne Cricket Ground ( MCG ) here in what will be the second game of the World Cup for both the teams. While India defeated traditional rivals Pakistan at the Adelaide Oval last Sunday , South Africa staved off a challenge from neighbours Zimbabwe on the same day at Hamilton . " For us , every game is apparently a test. Even against weaker sides , we always talk about what if they upset us. I always maintain that you play a game of cricket with bat in hand and ball in hand , and that 's all there is to it. We want to play well as a unit and that 's what we 're looking to do in this World Cup , " said the 26-year-old . Scoring runs also depends a lot on the dimensions of the ground and the size of the MCG , which will also host the final on March 29 , can be quite intimidating . " In Melbourne we have seen that sustained momentum throughout the innings has probably been the successful way. Teams that have tried to slog it out in the last 10 ( overs ) usually do n't end up pulling off that many runs , especially teams that are not familiar to these conditions , " said the Delhi youngster , who scored a match-winning century against Pakistan . " There is more bounce , the boundaries are bigger and so it 's not that easy to clear boundaries on a regular basis. You have to hit angles , play in the gaps , run hard and place the ball more than power it. There will be a calculated approach towards our batting and we will have to make some changes according to how big the field is. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
