World Cup 2015 : Best chance of beating India is to restrict them , says Porterfield The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 9 , 2015 , 04.42PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 HAMILTON : Ireland captain William Porterfield feels that the best chance for his team to beat India in the ICC Cricket World Cup group league encounter will be to restrict them to a reasonable total by taking wickets . " Look , obviously , we 've got to try to restrict them with the ball and take wickets. It 's just like any game of cricket and this format is the best way of restricting teams is taking those wickets. So we 've got to go out there with that mentality throughout the 50 overs , with that of taking wickets. Whatever we do first of the first 10 overs , is going to be big , " Porterfield said on the eve of their match against the defending champions . The Irish skipper does n't want to treat India as a special opponent and would go into the match like he would do for any other opposition . " No , it 's like any other game. We 've gotten into each game with two points up for grabs , and tomorrow is n't any different. We 've approached each game with great clarity and great professionalism really from our point of view , " the skipper said . But he did admit that things can change very quickly from this game . " It 's a quicker turn around now from this game than from what we 've necessarily had before , but it 's a good place as I said before , that we 're in , and we 've got to start fresh tomorrow and come start time. " He however did n't deny that it 's a good position to be in where even a point ( in case of an abandoned match ) will eliminate the West Indies from the equation . " Yeah , it 's a nice position to be in. It 's one we want to be in the quarterfinals is a goal we set ourselves before we came here , so we 're in , as I said , a nice position now , but it does n't count for anything if we do n't keep getting good performances and the start of the game tomorrow. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
