World Cup 2015 : Bhuvneshwar still a doubt ; MSD may play 2 spinners against Pakistan The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 14 , 2015 , 09.20AM IST The Indians obviously do not want to take chances with their bowling unit and should Bhuvi fail to recover in time for the South African match , there are indications that they may be forced to make another change. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : For the second successive day , the Indians showed urgency and purpose during practice at the serene St Paul 's College ground ahead of the big clash against Pakistan on Sunday . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni came straight to the ground from Melbourne after attending last evening 's opening ceremony to join the practice session , exuding a demeanour which said 'I mean business.' On a hot Friday afternoon , the emphasis was as much on fielding as was on batting and bowling. In the two warm-up games , India 's fielding had showed up with even the likes of Suresh Raina being below par . They realize fielding on the huge grounds in Australia will be a crucial factor as they try to defend the World Cup. The fielding drills dominated the three hours that they spent on the ground in a match-like situation . However , it has been quite noticeable in the last two days at the nets that things are not all that good with swing bowler Bhuvneshwar Kumar. He does not seem to be 100 % fit . In the warm-up match against Australia , he bowled a mere five overs and did not bat or bowl in the game against Afghanistan. After that match , Dhoni had merely said that he wanted to use just five bowlers , giving indication that Bhuvi was not in the frame for at least the first two games against Pakistan and South Africa in Melbourne on February 22 . Ever since India began the tour of Australia almost three months ago , Bhuvi has been under a cloud due to an ankle injury and things do not seem e to have improved for him , so much so that the team management has held Dhawal Kulkarni back although he was supposed to return to India after the Tri-series some 10 days ago . Skipper MS Dhoni talks to coach Duncan Fletcher during Team India 's training session ahead of their World Cup opening clash against Pakistan at the Adelaide Oval. ( Getty Images ) Kulkarni had been main taining a low profile for the last few days , but on Friday , he was as much a part of the main pace attack as Umesh Yadav , Mohit Sharma and Mo hammed Shami were . The Indians obviously do not want to take chances with their bowling unit and should Bhuvi fail to recover in time for the South African match , there are indications that they may be forced to make another change . An unfit Ishant Sharma has already returned to India , having been replaced by Mohit Sharma As of now , it looks like India plan to go into the first match with a combination of three pace bowlers and two spinners . It should be Yadav , Mohit and Shami , with spin in form of Ravichandran Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja. For the moment , even Stuart Binny , who was given preference in the Tri-series , seems to have receded into the background . India have more or less decided on their batting line-up with Shikhar Dhawan and Rohit Sharma opening the innings , and Virat Kohli , Anjikya Rahane , Suresh Raina and Dhoni to follow . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
