Australia 's batsman Aaron Finch plays a shot against India during the Cricket World Cup semifinal at Sydney Cricket Ground. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Opener Aaron Finch , who watched from the other end as Australia 's No. 3 Steve Smith went about building a match-winning innings , said it was one of the best knocks he 'd seen in his life . Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Smith 's hundred not only allowed Australia to post an imposing target for India in the semifinal , it gave Finch - the batsman struggling at the other end - a great deal of confidence in finding his feet at the crease . " I wo n't be surprised if he gets a big one at the MCG now , " said skipper Michael Clarke of Finch who scored a patient 81 , playing second fiddle to a few. " He was struggling a bit coming into the match and that knock could change everything , " he added . Finch is looking forward to playing at the 'G ' , a venue he ranks among his favourites , and talks about how he 's done well for Victoria playing here. It 's a ground that New Zealand will find very tough to play on , feel Finch , Clarke and even India skipper MS Dhoni . " They will need to come to terms with the size of the MCG. Back in New Zealand , most of the grounds are very small and they have n't played outside ( of NZ ) in this tournament , " Dhoni said , suggesting Australia would go into the final as favourites. Finch and Clarke are also banking on NZ 's lack of recent familiarity with the world 's biggest cricket venue . " These days , cricketers play all around the world. So I think they 'll adapt. But the MCG is a place we 've had a lot of success at and we 've played very well , so we 're going to be very confident going into this game , " said Finch . On the flight from Sydney to Melbourne , the Australian team enjoyed great support from fellow travellers who sang " Aussie , Aussie , Aussie... " in praise of the winning side. Aussie... " in praise of the winning side. Coming out of the airport , and on their way to the hotel here , the team spent as much time with the fans as they could , showing no sign of impatience . It 's been a month now since New Zealand beat Australia at home in the tournament in a low-scoring thriller , one of the best matches of the World Cup. Clarke said that was the game which brought about the turnaround in the performances of this Australian team . " From that match , we 've been a different side , and we 've done well , " said the skipper . At the MCG , Australia will enjoy a huge majority as the 87000-capacity packed stadium will be an intimidating venue for the players. Finch , however , said he and his teammates will find the occasion special and inspiring . " It 's a place I love playing at and so does this team. I 've played a lot of cricket there now and it 's a special place. When it 's packed with so many people , it 's going to be amazing. Not a better place to be , " Finch said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
