Match in Pics | Points Table " One of the coaches was telling me ( about India taking 50 wickets in five matches ) . It 's a good stat to have. It means the bowlers are really doing the job for us , " said Dhoni at the post match presentation . " It 's a remarkable difference ( since the last ODI tri-series ) , they 've really stepped up. Not just the three fast bowlers , the spinners as well , and whenever we 've had to use part-timers they 've done a good job. Looks like a happy unit , " he added . Full Coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Dhoni said he wanted his fast bowlers to get a good workout and that was the reason why he persisted with them for their full quota of 10 overs . " I knew , even after 4-5 overs , I could bring the spinners on right away if I wanted , but I still went ahead with the fast bowlers in the first 10 overs , then I felt let 's get the most out of this game , ( part-timer ) Suresh ( Raina ) also did really well and he got through his 10 overs , " he explained . READ ALSO : India thrash Ireland by 8 wickets Asked what instructions does he yell out to his bowlers from behind the stumps , Dhoni said : " At times I just try to tell them what my gut feeling is. Whatever I can read from behind with the initial movements of the batsman. Hindi is the ideal language , because everyone understands but the batsman does n't. " On what turned around for the team after a dismal Test and ODI tri-series performance that preceded the World Cup , Dhoni said being acclimatised to the conditions helped the side . " We have been here for over four months , we had to sacrifice somewhere , and that was the intensity in the ODI series , especially after the effort we had put in during the Test series. I knew it would be back when the World Cup started . " Even this game was a challenge , a lot of them are jet-lagged and sleep-deprived after coming here from Perth. I 'm glad all of us have stepped up. It feels good. Everyone is happy we have been able to win nine consecutive games , we just have to take the momentum forward , " said Dhoni . Dhoni said a good opening partnership between Shikhar Dhawan ( 100 ) and Rohit Sharma ( 64 ) today was the icing on the cake . " Both of them have got runs , the icing on the cake was for both of them to get runs at the same time. I felt both of them batted really well. Initially I thought it could be a difficult wicket , it was stopping , but the dew made it a little better later on , " the captain said . Man-of-the-match Dhawan said he was enjoying his game at the moment . " I 've spent lots of time to figure out my game , " Dhawan said . " I 'm used to the bounce and pace and I 'm enjoying my game here. Everyone has spent a lot of time here , the communication of the team has gone up. With the time boys have learnt , got experience. It 's lovely when we 're on the field , seeing the bowlers bowling so quick and in the right areas . Asked to rate his today 's innings on a scale of 10 , the opening batsman quipped : " I always mark myself 10 out of 10 . Meanwhile , Ireland captain William Porterfield said contrary to the belief that World Cup has been emotionally draining for his team , it is actually exciting . " I do n't think it is emotionally draining but has been exciting for us , " said Porterfield . He also insisted that Ireland would be looking to give their best in the last league game against Pakistan and try their bit to enter the knockout stage . " It 's all about being mentally fresh for that game in Adelaide , it 's a winner takes all for us. " Porterfield said his team fell short by at least 15-20 runs today . " The first innings , it was slightly disappointing because we could have got an extra 15-20 , but you have to give a lot of credit to them , kept fighting and coming back , and made it look very easy with the bat . " ( Ashwin ) bowled very well , mixed his pace very well , there was a bit of grip as well. We just lost a couple of wickets and that set us back , " he pointed out . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
