World Cup 2015 : Bowling India 's all-time best , says Aaqib Javed The author has posted comments on this article Devadyuti Das , TNN | Feb 28 , 2015 , 09.44AM IST Aaqib Javed has been coaching UAE for about three years now and is ready to face India again ­ this time in Perth on Saturday. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Aaqib Javed was one of the finest outswing bowlers to have come out of Pakistan , a fierce competitor who always enjoyed a battle with India. His performance would go up a notch whenever he took field against the neighbours. He always took life as a challenge and one of the biggest one so far has been to coach a group of amateur cricketers in the UAE team . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Javed , who played the last of his 163 ODIs in 1998 , has been coaching UAE for about three years now and is ready to face India again - this time in Perth on Saturday . " I decided to take up the assignment during my visit to UAE for a Test series with the Pakistan team against England three years back. Part of the reason was personal , as my wife and kids wanted to move to Dubai. But a lot of people asked me why I decided to coach a bunch of amateurs. My answer to them was life is full of challenges , " Javed told TOI from Perth on Thursday . After guiding the team to the Under-19 World Cup as well as World T20 Championships in Sri Lanka , Javed has travelled with the UAE team to a place where Pakistan achieved its greatest success - 1992 World Cup title . Pakistan , like their campaign in 1992 , have got off to a horror start with losses against India and West Indies and are in serious danger of not progressing to the quarterfinals. " The team needs to focus on avoiding controversies like the one recently with chief selector Moin Khan. It needs to focus only on cricket. I believe that the team has to play five specialist bowlers if they hope to succeed. " The UAE coach believes that the current Indian outfit is looking much better than the sides he has faced in the past. " India probably have one of their all-time best attack. I have never seen an Indian team with three pacemen bowling at 140-plus. In addition to that they have R Ashwin and Jadeja which means skip per Dhoni has five specialist bowlers at his disposal. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
