World Cup 2015 : Bowling unit has responded well to changes , says Dhoni The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 11 , 2015 , 08.10AM IST " Ashwin is a guy I love to have in the side because he can be used in difficult situations , " MS Dhoni said. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 HAMILTON : The Indian team gave a clinical display on Tuesday and skipper MS Dhoni looked happy and relaxed in the post-match interaction. Excerpts.. . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 R Ashwin looked really good .. . It 's crucial for everybody to score runs and get wickets ahead of the knockouts. Ashwin is a guy I love to have in the side because he can be used in difficult situations. I use him during Power Plays and he is confident about his own bowling. He has been on a few tours , has learnt his lessons and is constantly improving . Now that you have qualified for the quarters as the No.1 team from the group , will there be any motivation left ahead of the match against Zimbabwe ? There 's no lack of motivation. If you talk of points , we had already qualified for the quarters before this game , but that did n't mean we took things lightly here. Yes , many of the boys had n't slept well because we have travelled between different time zones and we wanted to ensure that everybody was well rested. Coming back to Zimbabwe , that will be our last game before the knockouts and we would like to keep the winning momentum going . Your bowlers did well again today. What 's the secret behind the transformation of the bowling unit ? The pitch was a little different from the other pitches that we played in the tournament. The pacers struggled to find the right length initially , but I saw that the spinners would get more purchase. Ashwin , along with Suresh Raina , got that. Raina is one bowler who always does well when there is some assistance from the pitch. The good thing about the bowling unit is that they have responded to whatever changes I have intended to make. There has never been a case of a bowler feeling down when I have taken him out of the attack. They know it 's for the team and they have taken it in the right spirit. It has made my job easier . There has been a remarkable change in the performance of the team since the Test series. What triggered this change ? We did n't do too well in the Tests against Australia but we learnt our lessons. We got a fair understanding about handling these conditions. We treated the gap between the Australia Test and tri-series and the World Cup just like a break between two series. Moreover the support of the fans...so many people coming down from India - all those made things easier for us . You have equaled Clive Lloyd 's record of nine wins on the trot in World Cup.. . The most important thing is winning the game for your country. It does n't really matter what the milestone is. The record has been achieved because of the team effort and I want to thank all the team members of the 2011 World Cup as well as those who are playing this one. We play a team sport , and everybody needs to enjoy it . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
