World Cup 2015 : Brendan Taylor feels proud to find his efforts being appreciated by all The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 15 , 2015 , 10.20AM IST Virat Kohli congratulates Zimbabwe batsman Brendan Taylor on his innings of 138 runs as he leaves the field. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Brendan Taylor had just completed his post-match press-conference and was leaving the room when MS Dhoni walked in. The India captain stood and congratulated his Zimbabwean counterpart : " Great show , hope to meet you again in England. " Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Taylor acknowledged , nodded and smiled back , which showed he was truly touched. Just as he was when Virat Kohli , Suresh Raina and Shikhar Dhawan ran up to him as he left the field after getting dismissed following a superb 138 on Saturday. " I truly felt touched. They are big players , thoroughly established. They did n't need to do that , but it feels really good when you 're appreciated for your efforts , " Taylor said . The predominantly Indian crowd at the Eden Park too stood up and cheered Taylor all along as he batted with a lot of gusto in his final ODI innings for Zimbabawe , following up on his century in the earlier game as well. " It 's just a testament to their cricket knowledge. Obviously , we knew who they were supporting , but they clapped when we put on a decent show. That was always nice to see - I was overwhelmed by the way they responded and I 'm very appreciative of that , " Taylor said . He was happy that he could hit centuries in his last two innings for his country , but there was a tinge of sadness that both his efforts could n't win the games for Zimbabwe. He knows that Zimbabwean cricket would benefit from his presence in the team , but there 's not much he can do about it. If any of the IPL franchises had picked him , Taylor 's international career might have been saved because his financial needs would have been taken care of . Would he rethink his Kolpak agreement if an IPL offer comes his way ? " Well , my contract is already in the process of being signed , so I do n't think I can move backwards on that. But in terms of IPL , I have n't thought that far ahead. That 's totally out of my control. If they pick me up , it 's great. But now it 's one day at a time for me , " Taylor said , adding that his priority now is to plan a visa for England. " But anything else that comes my way , I 'd be grateful enough to consider that , " Taylor said , a touch sad . Talking about his Saturday 's innings , he said : " It was pretty tricky. They bowled really well and then it just sort of fell into place a little bit. I said to myself as I went out today to just enjoy the moment and not put myself under too much pressure. That helped a little bit. " He said Saturday 's century had probably been his best ODI innings. " But if you are not going to win then it does n't feel so sweet , " he said. " It was definitely up there but unfortunately it was in another losing cause. There 's definitely a sense of sadness , a sense of disappointment. Sad in a way that I 'm leaving my mates , leaving my home country for a number of years. I guess life goes on and you are posed with different challenges and choices. But it 's a positive one I 've taken and I 'm looking forward to it , " he stated . BRENDAN 'S HIGHS * Seventh batsman to hit a century in his last ODI match and the first since New Zealand 's James Marshall hit 161 against Ireland in 2008 * Seventh Zimbabwean to score a century against India in an ODI. The last Zimbabwe centurion was Stuart Carlisle with 109 at Adelaide in 2004 . * Ninth batsman to hit successive hundreds in World Cup. In the 2015 edition , Mahmudullah from Bangladesh and Sri Lanka 's Kumar Sangakkara have achieved the same landmark . * Only Zimbabwean batsman to have scored two hundreds in the World Cup . * 433 runs by Taylor in this tournament , the highest for a Zimbabwe batsman in any World Cup. The previous best was 367 by Neil Johnson in 1999 . ( With inputs from agencies )
