World Cup 2015 : Brothers across the ditch ' brace for the big fight The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 28 , 2015 , 10.00AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Tim Southee calls the Aussies " brothers across the ditch " . What he does n't say though is how deeply the Kiwis want to beat their " big brothers " to take home the ultimate prize in cricket - the World Cup. While the man on the street in Australia is cool about New Zealand - the feeling being 'we 'll beat them ' -it 's not quite the same for the Kiwis . The people of New Zealand love to hate Australia ; they would have preferred India beating the Aussies , but now that it has n't happened , they will have to try and settle this famous Trans-Tasman rivalry in their favour. " Our rivalry with Australia covers every sport. Australia had the wood on us for sometime now but we are on our way to even the ledger , " Southee said , talking about the mental preparations that have gone in for the clash. " As kids , when we were growing up , many of us dreamt of playing and winning a World Cup final against Australia. It 's a massive rivalry and we want to be one up on big brothers , " Southee added . The two nations have often crossed swords in rugby with the Kiwis holding sway in recent times. But when it comes to cricket , the Aussies have been superior , more often than not. When the two teams clashed in the league game of this World Cup at Eden Park , the Kiwis came up trumps in a cliff-hanger . Michael Clarke , the Aussie captain , insists there are never free lunches when it 's New Zealand on the other side. " I do n't remember a single game against New Zealand which has been one-sided , " he had said . Kiwis fans have not forgotten the 'bitter incident ' of 1981 when Trevor Chappell was asked to bowl underarm by skipper Greg in the third final of the tri-series at the MCG with the Kiwis needing six to tie the game. That incident was also discussed on Friday but Southee chose to play it down . IT 'S NOT ABOUT JUST CRICKET... . The rivalry between New Zealand and Australia is displayed in other sporting arenas too. Here 's a look at the popular face-offs between the two nations : RUGBY New Zealand regularly treated Australia as second-tier opponents until 1979 when the Wallabies won the Bledisloe Cup and took the trophy on a lap of honour around the Sydney Cricket Ground , an act that stung the All Blacks. The Wallabies have also beaten New Zealand twice in World Cup semifinals . NETBALL It has produced some terrific contests over the years , especially between Australian Diamonds and Silver Ferns. The Diamonds are top-ranked team in the world , followed by Silver Ferns at number two. Almost all the matches between the two end in screams , tears and fingernails bitten to the quick. Over the years , New Zealand enjoyed the upper hand over Australia , but the Diamonds are now turning the tables. Aussie girls ' most notable win was achieved in the final of the Glassglow Commonwealth Games 2014 . YACHTING Australian skipper Jimmy Spithill 's goading of Team New Zealand at the last America 's Cup in 2013 briefly made him public enemy number one. Spithill then turned Team Oracle USA 's performances around and roared back from a seemingly unwinnable position to retain sport 's oldest trophy . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
