Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 He was playing the 13th of his 134 ODI matches and batting at No. 5 when he scored 66 in a match-turning 123-run partnership with Sachin Tendulkar in a six-wicket win over Australia in Sydney in March 2008. Skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni also featured in that game , which remains India 's only win at the ground against the Australians in 14 meetings back to 1980 . " It 's been a long time , seven years. I can recall that very well , " he said. " It 's really fresh in my memory because ... the great Sachin Tendulkar was batting alongside me , so there is no way I can forget that. It was a very important game. " It set Sharma him up for prolific record against the top-ranked Australians -- he averages 58.7 in 17 ODIs against the Aussies , far superior to his career average of just under 40. He has scored three centuries against the Australians , including 141 not out at Jaipur and 209 at Bangalore in the same series in 2013 . " As a batsman , over the years I 've learned a lot of things. Certainly batting up the order has changed my game , my approach toward the game and the responsibility , " he said. " I know if I 'm batting top of the order there is a huge responsibility and I have to take my team through . " So every time I go to bat I always think about that. Does n't matter if I come on top or not , but at least I do that. " Of the two ODI double centuries that Rohit Sharma has hit so far , one has come against the Australians. ( AFP Photo ) In the last head-to-head against Australia , he posted 138 in a losing cause at Melbourne in January. The Indians did n't win a competitive game in Australia for two months leading up to the World Cup , but turned it around at the World Cup , where the defending champions have won seven consecutive matches and bowled out the opposition in every game. Sharma scored a century in the quarterfinal win over Bangladesh , so is coming into form . Sharma is a dangerous batsman , and capable of getting India away to a rapid start -- something that will be needed against four-time champion Australia. And he 's prolific , having set a world record 264 from 173 balls , including 33 boundaries and nine sixes against Sri Lanka last year . " I think records are there to be broken. I do n't wish my record to be broken. But , look , every batsman would want to hit a big score , " he said in comments translated from Hindi . " To score 200 runs is not easy , it is a very tough job. Even when I scored 264 I was told ( by people ) that you should have scored 300. Not just in India , everywhere , people 's expectations are very high. " With a pro-India crowd at the SCG , and with a spot in the final against New Zealand up for grabs , there 's no doubt he 'll be aiming to score a lot of runs , and quickly , against Australia . The final is scheduled for Sunday at the Melbourne Cricket Ground . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
