World Cup 2015 : Can spinners be India 's trump card ? The author has posted comments on this article Dhananjay Roy , TNN | Feb 20 , 2015 , 10.41AM IST Singh observed that Ashwin was brilliant against Pakistan whenever he was flighting the ball. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : India 's bowling attack , which drew considerable flak for its waywardness on the tour of Australia , made amends with a disciplined performance against Pakistan in their World Cup opener. The bowlers won fulsome praise for their effort that gave India their sixth straight WC win over their arch rivals . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 While Mohammed Shami walked away with a lion 's share of the accolade for his 4-35 , Umesh Yadav ( 2-50 ) , Mohit Sharma ( 2-35 ) , Ravichandran Ashwin ( 1-41 ) and Ravindra Jadeja ( 1-56 ) also stuck to their roles commendably . In fact , it was off-spinner Ashwin 's brilliant first five overs , in which he bowled three maidens , that set back Pakistan 's run-chase significantly. India will be hoping that their ace spinner is in top form again when they clash with South Africa in Melbourne on Sunday. And considering that the Proteas are traditionally better players of pace bowling , Ashwin & Co. could end up shouldering greater responsibility if India are to record their first-ever win over SA at the World Cup . " According to me , the India spinners can have a big impact on the game provided the Indian think-tank juggles their pace bowlers a bit. Ideally , India should open the bowling with Shami and Mohit Sharma. Umesh Yadav can be more effective coming at first change , unlike the game against Pakistan. Once the trio has managed to apply some pressure , Ashwin could come into his own , " former India off-spinner Maninder Singh told TOI on Thursday . Singh observed that Ashwin was brilliant against Pakistan whenever he was flighting the ball . " I felt the batsmen were struggling to play him when he was giving the ball some loop. But , the moment Dhoni placed a leg-slip , he began aiming for the leg stump and conceded runs. " Former Indian spinner Venkatapathy Raju , who was part of India 's WC campaign Down Under in 1992 , feels current ODI rules have only added to bowlers ' woes. " With things like Powerplay and having five fielders in the circle coming into play , there 's very little room for errors for bowlers. So , a lot will depend on what is the match situation when Ashwin or Jadeja are introduced , " said Raju . He feels batting has been India 's major strength and it 's going to remain that way in the long-drawn competition. " If Rohit Sharma , Virat Kohli and Ajinkya Rahane can combine to put up a score close to 300 , it would be of great help to the bowling unit , " he said . Former South Africa off-spinner Johan Botha concurred that spinners will have their fair share of chances to make an impact at the MCG . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
