READ ALSO : Spin or seam ? India confident of passing Australia test " David will be fine , " Clarke told reporters on Wednesday. " He knows the rules , as we all do , and his rules are no different than the rest of ours. " But fast bowler Johnson said he did not expect any let up in Australia 's aggressive approach , and was even willing to take the lead if Warner did not sledge . READ ALSO : World Cup fever - Planning to fall ill tomorrow ? " I heard Davey ( Warner ) say he was not going to get involved in all that stuff , " Johnson told Fox Sports. " Someone has got to do it and I think I might put my hand up. It 's part of the game. " The two teams have shared a tumultuous relationship both on and off the field in recent years and another flare-up can not be ruled out in a potentially explosive semifinal . The bad blood showed up during India 's Test and one-day series in Australia prior to the World Cup when heated on-field exchanges led to several players being penalised . Three Indian players , Virat Kohli , Ishant Sharma and Shikhar Dhawan , and Australian left-arm fast bowler Mitchell Starc were charged for a breach of the International Cricket Council 's Code of Conduct . Warner was reported both in the Test and one-day series , and was publicly told off by Cricket Australia boss James Sutherland to " stop looking for trouble. " Meanwhile , Clarke did not expect the SCG wicket to throw up any surprises , saying it will prove to be a good cricketing pitch . There is growing speculation that the dry , brown wicket will suit India more than the home team 's fast bowlers , but Clarke appeared unconcerned by the pre-match talk . " I think the SCG in general is a really good wicket for both both batting and bowling , " the Australian skipper said . " The fast bowlers will hopefully get a little swing and a little bounce out of that wicket and then as always spin will play a part . " But the SCG is as good a place to bat as anywhere in the world. I am confident this game will be no different. " Clarke also rubbished suggestions that the toss will prove crucial since batting first could be an advantage on the wearing end-of-the-season pitch . " Whatever you do first , you have to do it well , " he said. " I do n't think it ( the toss ) matters too much in a one-day game . " Sometimes wickets in Australia can be better to bat on second , because you get a little bit of dew , and the wicket and the outfield quicken up . " Then there is the other side that people always talk about -- runs on the board in big games. We are going to do both at some stage , we just have to do them well. " India have beaten Australia just once in 35 years in a one-day international at the Sydney Cricket Ground and the hosts have won all six semifinals they have contested since the inaugural event in 1975 . Australia will start as favourites , but Clarke insisted the expectations from home fans will not put undue pressure on his side . " Expectations will be there because we are the number one one-day team in the world , " he said. " The reason you have that expectation on you is because you 've performed. " Organisers expect Indian fans to outnumber their Australian counterparts at the the 42,000-capacity SCG , but Clarke said the support for the home team will not be any less . Asked if there will be more Indian fans at the ground , Clarke said : " That 's a no-brainer. I think we know they will . " But that 's fine. We have played in India a number of times and they out-support us there as well. It 's a fantastic feeling to have the opportunity to play in your own backyard and to play in Australia. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
