World Cup 2015 : Clarke blames T20 effect for batting failure The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 1 , 2015 , 09.27AM IST Australia 's captain Michael Clarke directs his team against New Zealand during their World Cup 2015 match in Auckland on Saturday. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Michael Clarke was proud of the way his bowlers fought on Saturday , but he felt that over-exposure to T20 cricket is hurting the players ' defensive technique . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " I think we were extremely poor with our batting today. None of the top-six could make a serious contribution and I think it has a lot do with our inability to defend. I think sometimes the players get caught up with T20 cricket and work a little too much on the power side of the game , " the skipper said . Clarke , who himself , got out chasing a wide one , was self critical saying that he is no different from anybody else in the team . " I am part of the group and I failed too. But we have to work on how we play the brand new ball. Whether we are in New Zealand or MCG , there will be the swinging ball and unless we can counter that , we will be in trouble , " Clarke said . Australia 's start to this World Cup has n't exactly been great with one win , one wash-out and now a loss. The team now moves to Perth to play their next game , But Clarke is more worried about the travelling than the conditions . " We have played enough cricket to know what Perth has to offer , but the travelling is really hectic. We end up travelling close to eight-an-half hours going to Perth. So we have to recuperate quickly and get ready for the action , " Clarke said . The skipper had a word of praise for his star performer Mitchell Starc. " He was just amazing. This is one of the best spells of bowling I have seen and I hope he takes confidence from this and moves ahead , " he said . Both Australia and NZ are being seen as the two finalists , but Clarke said that he does n't want to look too far ahead . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
