World Cup 2015 : Clarke pleased as Australia storm past Scotland The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 14 , 2015 , 03.29PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 HOBART : Australia captain Michael Clarke was a happy man after his side warmed up for next week 's World Cup quarterfinal in Adelaide with a straightforward seven-wicket win over Scotland in Hobart on Saturday . In what was a last Pool A match for both teams , Australia dismissed Scotland for just 130 at Bellerive Oval after Clarke won the toss , with Mitchell Starc taking four for 14 to leave the left-arm paceman top of the tournament bowling charts with 16 wickets . Australia , with Clarke making a run-a-ball 47 after he promoted himself to open in order to have some batting practice , finished on 133 for three in just 15.2 overs . " Our bowlers did a great job to bowl Scotland out , and our batters put the team first , " said Clarke . " It 's always nice to win -- I do n't think there 's any better preparation than winning. " As for Australia 's chances of winning a fifth World Cup title and first on home soil , Clarke added : " Now it 's the knockout stages. We need to play at our best and I think if we do , we can win. " For Scotland , their sixth straight loss of this tournament meant they 'd now been beaten in all 14 of their World Cup matches , a run spanning three editions . " We knew it was always going to be a tough game for us , and unfortunately it was n't to be , " said Scotland captain Preston Mommsen . " We take a huge amount of positives from the past six games , and we leave the World Cup a better team. " There was some consolation for the non-Test side in that Scotland seamer Josh Davey bowed out with an impressive 15 wickets at an average of just over 20 apiece . " We 're very proud of Josh Davey -- taking 15 wickets is an awesome achievement , " added Mommsen. " Our focus now turns to qualifying for the World T20. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
