World Cup 2015 : Clarke vows not to take Afghanistan for granted The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Mar 4 , 2015 , 11.55AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 PERTH : In three matches , Australia have so far recorded a win , a no-result and a defeat. That 's obviously not the type of start they would have hoped for . However , given that they are facing Afghanistan next at the WACA in Perth on Wednesday , the hosts should not face any problems in getting their campaign back on track . The hosts have had a troubled start to their World Cup journey. There were speculations galore about the fitness of skipper Michael Clarke and the need to retain him as the captain once fit. In the opener against England , George Bailey led the team to an impressive win against England . In the next game , versus Bangladesh , Clarke was supposed to take over the captaincy but that match was rained off and then they went on to lose to co-hosts New Zealand by the narrowest of margins with Clarke at the helm and Bailey on bench . On a pitch as fast as WACA 's , Australia have the firepower to blow away much bigger teams than Afghanistan. The hosts would have taken note of India 's win over the UAE on Saturday and would be looking for a similar comprehensive win . Australia would also want to improve their net run-rate to have a better chance of playing the third-placed team in Group B which could be either Pakistan or the West Indies. In order to finish second in the group they will have to overcome the resurgent Sri Lankans in Sydney on Sunday . " I ca n't say we 've looked too far past ( the Afghanistan match ) tomorrow , to be honest. We 've been pretty focused over the last couple of days. Our coach has made it pretty clear to us today that he wants us to stay focused on what 's right in front of us in this game , and we 'll worry about Sunday ( match against Sri Lanka ) after tomorrow 's game , " captain Clarke said . On the little-known Afghan side , he said : " We have our team meeting this afternoon , and like every other team , we 'll go through all the individual players , have a look at their strengths and the areas we think we can attack them . " I 've watched them play throughout this World Cup. I think they 've performed really well. I think a few of their individuals have really stood up and performed well. I think the wicket looks fantastic , so there might be a bit of pace out there for their opening bowlers who have done a very good job throughout this tournament. So yeah , we 'll certainly study our opposition this afternoon. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
