World Cup 2015 : Cross-border partnership Down Under The author has posted comments on this article Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : A convenience store on the Barlow Street in Central Sydney which caters to a huge influx of Asian immigrants in the business district of Australia 's most populated city , is also home to a great tale of friendship . Junaid Qasim and Aryan Patel are business partners at the store. Among other things , they also operate a low-commission money transfer window for those saving each penny to send back home . In the run-up to the World Cup knockouts , when it became clear that either Australia or Pakistan would earn the opportunity to play the semifinal in Sydney , Junaid and Aryan went ahead and bought a dozen tickets for themselves and friends. Either India or Pakistan or both were certain to play this game. Junaid belongs to Karachi. He says he was one of the young men who grew up playing cricket at the famed Iqbal Park until pressures of earning livelihood forced him to make the shift. He 's the nephew of Iqbal Qasim , the former Pakistan spinner who always played under the shadow of the more famous Abdul Qadir . " By the time I actually understood his relevance as a cricketer , I 'd given up on Karachi. It was time to leave , " says Junaid. " But I know for a fact that he has to be among the biggest fans of Sunny Gavaskar. " He has n't kept tabs on his uncle , Iqbal , who famously won Pakistan the 1987 Test in Bangalore , in which Gavaskar scored the famous second-innings 96. " That match and that innings is my uncle and my family 's greatest cricket memory , " he says . Aryan grew up in a middle-class family in Surat , Gujarat , before he decided to try his luck in finding a better lifestyle overseas. The young man later finished his schooling in Mumbai and played for Star Cricket Club for three years before moving out . Starting as roommates in Sydney 's faraway suburb of Parramatta , the duo stuck together to make it on their own and cricket 's played a big role in bringing them together . " I registered at Lindfield ( Cricket Club ) where I met Aryan , " says Junaid , where they 'd meet thrice a week at the nets. " I would 've gone back home if it was n't for his ( Junaid 's ) friendship , " he adds , all of 28 and four years younger to his Pakistani friend. " I did n't have the money to support myself and he paid my bills for months. I 'm forever indebted to him , " he adds. Theirs is a cross-border story that involves a lot of trust , fun and prosperity. " We have a good laugh at each other 's communities back home when we hear about how India and Pakistan are always at loggerheads. They need to cool off with some beer , " they say . Both have given their staff - close to a dozen Asian immigrants - half-a-day off from the store this week. On Thursday , they 'll be at the Sydney Cricket Ground ( SCG ) supporting India. " No emotions here. I just do n't want Australia in the final , " says Junaid . The two best friends have invited a host of others - their daily circle of acquaintances - to be at the SCG. Their bet is most of the Indian community of traders in central Sydney wo n't work in the second half of Thursday because of the match. " They 've all spent a fortune to be there at the ground. India , Pakistan , just about everybody will be there supporting the Indian team , " he says . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
