World Cup 2015 : Crushed Bangladesh still proud after landmark tournament The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 19 , 2015 , 06.42PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Bangladesh 's fairytale run at the ICC World Cup 2015 was ended brutally by reigning champions India on Thursday , but the Tigers ' elation at making the knockout rounds for a first time will not be too dimmed by the humbling . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Bangladesh 's bowlers tried hard to restrict India and though able to subdue them for a period , were ultimately thwarted by a 122-run partnership between centurion Rohit Sharma and Suresh Raina . With no team having ever chased down more than 300 for victory at the Melbourne Cricket Ground , few would have dared back Bangladesh to reel in India 's 302 . But the batting collapse and 109-run defeat was an unworthy finish to an industrious campaign that offered glimpses of a future where Bangladesh cricket might be taken seriously rather than accused of squatting at cricket 's elite table . In their pool phase thrashing by Sri Lanka at the MCG , Bangladesh put in an abysmal fielding effort that suggested a failure to grasp the dimensions of the sprawling venue on their debut appearance . Those fielding demons were kept at bay for half of the first innings but came rushing forth as the pressure grew to break Rohit and Raina 's partnership . Fortune played a cruel hand , with Raina surviving an lbw decision when on 10 by the vagaries of ball tracking technology , which showed Bangladesh captain Mashrafe Mortaza 's delivery pitching a whisker off leg stump . Rohit was later caught for 90 but was reprieved by umpire Aleem Dar who judged Rubel Hossain 's full toss above waste height though replays suggested it was perfectly legal . " Our plan was pretty good and we were a bit unlucky we could n't get a wicket at that time , " Bangladesh captain Mortaza lamented to reporters . " We always knew they would come hard after 35 ( overs ) . " They were brilliant after 35 and took the calculated risks and we could n't bowl according to our plans ... That was the moment when we lost. " Mashrafe still hailed a " brilliant " tournament for his team , who sent England crashing out of the tournament to secure their place in the last eight . " Except today , the batters batted really well throughout this tournament ... Hopefully that will continue . " The confidence we got hopefully will continue . " Most of the players in our side ... have n't had any cricket in Australia , so it was a really big class for us but the way the bowlers adapted with the wickets and the conditions , I 'm still very proud of this team. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
