Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Captain AB de Villiers continued his dominant form with a man-of-the-match performance to smash 99 off 82 balls , while Farhaan Behardien contributed a rollicking 64 from 31 . The dashing right-hander , however , also became only the third batsman in World Cup history to be dismissed on 99 -- the other two being Australia 's Adam Gilchrist ( 2003 ) and another South African JP Duminy ( 2011 ) . Seamer Vernon Philander ( 2-34 ) also made a successful return from injury , with South Africa 's only negative the continued poor form of opening bat Quinton de Kock ( 26 ) . AB De Villiers is named as # SAvUAE Player of the Match & he signs off as joining the '99 Club ' ! # TwitterMirror # cwc15 pic.twitter.com/mYQFuG1LUZ — ICC ( @ ICC ) March 12 , 2015 The win , which sets up a likely quarterfinal clash with Sri Lanka in Sydney next Wednesday , will help erase memories of South Africa 's shock loss to Pakistan in their previous Pool B outing . De Villiers said the pre-tournament favourites were confident going into the final eight , despite losses to India and Pakistan in the group stages . " I 'm extremely happy , it 's never a given that you 're going to make the quarterfinals in the World Cup , " he said . " It 's a huge opportunity for us as a team. We 've got a lot of people back home who we represent and this is the position we want to be in , representing them in a quarter-final knock-out match. We 're very excited. " The result leaves the UAE winless at the tournament , with their final chance to snatch a victory coming against the West Indies in Napier on Sunday . UAE captain Mohammad Tauqir surprisingly opted to bowl first on a pitch that appeared perfect for batting , with the decision paying early dividends when Hashim Amla miscued a pull shot to depart on 12 . De Kock and Rilee Rossouw made the most of some wayward bowling in a 68-run partnership , with Rossouw the aggressor as de Kock tried to play himself into form . But the youngster 's woes continued when he nicked an edge to the keeper on 26 , leaving him with an average of under eight from his six innings at the tournament . Rossouw ( 43 ) followed three overs later , deceived by a slower ball from Tauqir that he scooped straight back to the bowler . South Africa were looking unexpectedly shaky at 96 for three and it could have been worse , with David Miller and de Villiers both surviving early scares . They made the most of their reprieves to bring up 100 off 99 balls , with de Villiers notching his 45th one-day international half century . Miller fell just short of his own half century , clean bowled by Mohammad Naveed on 49 attempting a pull shot . De Villiers stepped up the pace after being dropped on 65 , blasting sixes from consecutive deliveries off Amjad Javed . But Javed had his revenge when he caught de Villiers on 99 as the skipper tried to bring up his century with a flashy boundary . However Behardien proved just as destructive as South Africa plundered 25 runs off the UAE 's final over to set up a total that never looked within reach . The Sharjah-based amateurs lost an early wicket when Andri Berenger ( 5 ) fell to a spectacular one-handed diving catch from Rossouw off the bowling of Morkel . They were not disgraced , with Swapnil Patil grinding out a hard-fought 57 not out and Shaiman Anwar making 39 as the UAE reached 108 for four at one point . But the run rate at no point approached the 6.82 an over needed for victory and the match had petered out as a contest long before Kamran Shazad was caught at mid-on in the 48th over . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
