World Cup 2015 : De Villiers fears pitch will blunt Proteas ' pacemen The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 21 , 2015 , 11.22AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : South Africa captain AB de Villiers believes the pitch at the Melbourne Cricket Ground for Sunday 's World Cup clash against defending champions India will not favour his fast bowlers , saying batsmen should revel on it . " I 've played here in the past and I have never played at the MCG with a lot of pace and bounce , " de Villiers said ahead of the Pool B game that will almost certainly lift the winner into the quarterfinals . " It 's always been quite slow , which does n't suit us that well , " added the skipper , whose bowling attack features the impressive pace trio of Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel and Vernon Philander . " The last game we played here against Australia ( in November ) was one of the slowest wickets I 've ever batted on . " At night maybe it skids on a little bit more , but also you get value for your shots a little bit more , " the dashing batsman added . " It 's certainly not a quick wicket , so we will have to adapt as quickly as possible , assess the conditions and try and get the momentum on our side. " De Villiers ' views contradicted those of India vice-captain Virat Kohli , who said the hard MCG wicket had more bounce than many other pitches in Australia . Meanwhile the Proteas skipper welcomed the prospect of playing before some 80,000 spectators , most of them largely boisterous Indian fans . " I am pretty happy that it is going to be packed , " said de Villiers. " The last few games I played here it was not full , and it almost feels wrong in a way. You almost get lost in the middle out there , it 's so big . " So it 's nice to know that it is going to be chock-a-block tomorrow. I 've always enjoyed big crowds and enjoyed busy , intense games . " It should get the blood flowing tomorrow playing in front of the big crowd in a big stadium with great tradition and history . " We always love playing in big games , so nothing will change. We 're just looking forward to playing some good cricket tomorrow. " South Africa were severely tested with both bat and ball by Zimbabwe in their World Cup opener in Hamilton last Sunday before recording a 62-run win . The Proteas were wobbling at 83 for four before being bailed out by a brilliant record stand of 256 for the fifth wicket between century-makers David Miller and JP Duminy . Zimbabwe then made a valiant pursuit of a target of 340 , reaching 191 for two in the 33rd over before the last eight wickets fell for 86 runs to hand South Africa full points . " The way we came back was very positive for us , " said de Villiers , looking to lead South Africa to what would be a first World Cup title. " The top order needs to assess conditions a bit better up front. That 's probably the main thing we learnt with the bat . " With the ball in hand , we started a bit slow , but I think the guys learnt from that and we are ready to go tomorrow , " he added . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
