World Cup 2015 : De Villiers hails South Africa 'rock ' Amla The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 3 , 2015 , 05.14PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CANBERRA : South Africa captain AB de Villiers hailed Hashim Amla as the team 's " rock " after the opener cracked 159 in the crushing 201-run World Cup win over Ireland on Tuesday . Amla reached his 20th one-day international century faster than any batsman , his career-best score coming in his 108th innings , with India 's Virat Kohli the next quickest to reach 20 tons , in 133 innings . The Proteas piled up 411 for four , the second-highest total in World Cup history . Amla and Faf du Plessis ( 109 ) put on 247 for the second wicket while fast bowler Kyle Abbott finished with figures of four for 21 at Canberra 's Manuka Oval . " Amla is still the rock and will always be that for us. He was incredible. Hopefully that form can continue for the rest of the tour , " said de Villiers , whose team are virtually certain of a place in the quarter-finals after a third win in four matches . " It was a good game. We did it our way. We follow our game plans and the guys set it up very nicely up top for our middle order . Amla had made 65 in the 257-run rout of the West Indies and praised his team , who have now racked up two successive totals of 400-plus . Five different players have also made centuries in South Africa 's four games . David Miller ( 138 not out ) and JP Duminy ( 115 not out ) both reached three figures against Zimbabwe , while de Villiers hit 162 not out against the West Indies before Amla and du Plessis reached three figures on Tuesday . " Fortunately we got off to a good start. We had wickets in hand so that gave us the luxury of being able to go for it , to see what happened and fortunately it paid off , " said Amla . " Any hundred is a good hundred. I 'm just happy to get some runs and set it up for the boys at the back end. " Ireland suffered their first loss after wins against the West Indies and the UAE but are still in the running for a quarter-final slot with a key game against Zimbabwe coming up in Hobart on Saturday . They complete their Pool B campaign with tough assignments against defending champions India at Hamilton on March 10 and Pakistan in Adelaide five days later . " It was a difficult evening , they played very well. We had one early breakthrough and wanted more but then it was hard for us , " said Ireland skipper William Porterfield whose evening got off to a great start when out-of-form South Africa opener Quinton de Kock was dismissed for one . " We tried to put some pressure on , but we would 've liked a few more wickets early on. " He added : " Obviously the match against Zimbabwe is a big one , so we will be looking to take the two points. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
