World Cup 2015 : De Villiers slams 'unacceptable ' South Africa display The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 22 , 2015 , 06.07PM IST AB de Villiers was confident his team , who 've now won one and lost one at this tournament after seeing off Zimbabwe , will bounce back for their Pool B game against the West Indies in Sydney on Friday. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : South Africa captain AB de Villiers lashed out at his team after their massive 130-run loss to India in the World Cup on Sunday , saying it was an " unacceptable " performance . Scorecard | Congratulate Team India After defending champions India had piled up 307 for seven , with opener Shikhar Dhawan making 137 , the Proteas were bundled out for 177 with almost 10 overs to spare in front of a huge crowd of 86,878 at the Melbourne Cricket Ground . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 | Match in Pics " All round we were very average , " said de Villiers. " We lacked discipline in the field with dropped catches and untidy bowling and two run-outs in our innings was unacceptable. " The skipper himself was run out through a smart throw from the deep by Mohit Sharma and David Miller followed in similar fashion soon afterwards . Faf du Plessis was the Proteas ' top-scorer with 55 , the skipper 's 30 the only other notable contribution . " You always feel the pressure of chasing 300 , like playing shots you may not want to , " said de Villiers. " But the top six are there to win games. Two run-outs in the top five is not what we want . " It was a disappointing performance with both bat and ball. No excuses , we should have come up better today. " The captain said losing the toss and batting second under lights contributed to South Africa 's defeat . " It was a good wicket to bat on in the afternoon , " he said. " But there was wear and tear in the evening. Without making excuses , I can say it was a bit two-paced as the match went on . " It was a big knock for us to be beaten by 130 runs. We need to lick our wounds a while because confidence takes a knock. " However , de Villiers was confident his team , who 've now won one and lost one at this tournament after seeing off Zimbabwe , will bounce back for their Pool B game against the West Indies in Sydney on Friday . " We have a mature group of players , " he said. " We need to regroup before Friday and I am confident we will bounce back. " The overwhelming bulk of fans in a crowd of nearly 87,000 were India supporters but de Villiers insisted a raucous atmosphere had not contributed to South Africa 's emphatic loss . " I do n't think that was the case , " he said. " As Hashim ( Amla ) said to me , India batted well. And we need to win games anywhere in the world if we want to be the best cricket team in the world . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
