World Cup 2015 : Dhoni credits bowlers in low-scoring win over West Indies The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 6 , 2015 , 08.15PM IST India 's Ravichandran Ashwin and MS Dhoni walk off the field following their four wickets victory over West Indies in ICC Cricket World Cup Pool B match in Perth. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 PERTH : Indian skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni was all praise for his bowlers after the Men in Blue earned a hard-fought win against the West Indies to move into the quarterfinals of the cricket World Cup on Friday . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Table-toppers India managed a four-wicket win at the WACA to keep a clean slate in Pool B and Dhoni was impressed with his bowlers after they bundled out the West Indies for 182 on a bouncy pitch . " I think our bowlers did a very good job. They did n't try too much , they stuck to their line and length , it had a bit more bounce , gave quite a few wides bowling bouncers , but we also got wickets with the bouncer , so very happy with our performance , " said Dhoni . " I think it was a difficult wicket , even initially with the new ball. There was some variable bounce , it was doing a bit. It settled down later , there was some swing for the West Indies bowlers as well , with the new ball , " he added . India for once were tested in the tournament as Dhoni and company were made to work hard to reach their 183-run target , which they eventually got in 39.1 overs. In trouble at 134 for six , Dhoni and Ravichandran Ashwin stitched together an unbeaten 51-run stand to help India get their fourth win on the trot . Dhoni was happy that the lower middle-order was finally tested . " It is a difficult target , because you do n't know whether to go and play your shots. It was a good chance to test our lower middle order. Ashwin played well , but Ravindra Jadeja ( who got out 13 runs ) will have to step up , I feel , " he said . India now move to New Zealand for their final two league games against Ireland and Zimbabwe and Dhoni feels that the team should not have much problem in acclimatizing to Kiwi conditions . " The last time we were in New Zealand , there were true wickets , we 'll have to see what kind of wickets are provided , but generally the ball comes on , there is some bounce. Generally the grounds are small so that is one area where we will have to adjust , " he said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
