Bangladesh cricketers walk off after their World Cup match in Hamilton. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Over the last 29 years , since they made their ODI debut , Bangladesh have won a creditable 88 victories ; but it was their win over India in the 2007 World Cup that sent the world into a tizzy , and virtually plunged the game itself into bankruptcy . Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Eight years later , they are poised at another such epochal moment as they prepare to take on the same opponents at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on Thursday . Only this time , India do n't look so vulnerable , having won all their six matches in the league phase. So much so that the talk now is if India will play hosts Australia or Pakistan in the semifinals . But try telling that to the Tigers . " India are playing very good cricket. But we will only analyze our strengths compared to India 's , " roared Bangladesh coach Chandika Hathurusingha. " The team that enjoys ( out there ) will have a better game. We should embrace the opportunity presented ( to us ) and enjoy the situation. For us , there 's nothing to prove as we are good enough and that 's why we are here , " he added . Post the 2007 upset , Bangladesh beat India once again , in the 2012 Asia Cup - not exactly a flash in the pan because they chased a healthy 289 ; but they lost 12 in the ensuing period . Hathurusingha , appointed Bangladesh coach last year , is quick to point out that he does n't quite remember the past simply because he was n't around. " It 's just that you reminded me. I do n't know anything about it , " he tells the media. He would n't remember the defeats either , which is as good as it can get for Bangladesh here . India have lost only thrice in 28 encounters so they wo n't see Bangladesh as dangerous.But they are aware that they can be tricky customers . Especially as Bangladesh have been playing well , bowling better , and really look organized . " We are good and that 's why we 're here , " says Hathurusingha. " The key to beating an established side is this : if we play to our potential and the established side does not measure up , we beat them. " He certainly knows that if the Indian team plays to its potential it 's a lost cause for them. But if they falter , they are more than ready to pounce and power their way into the semifinals . To top it all , they 've got their fans - probably the most devoted and passionate ones in sport . The Tigers , they say in hushed tones , wear more paint on their bodies during their matches , than they spend colouring their homes during Kali Puja , Pohela Boishakh and Eid. That should count for something when the mercury rises in the stadium . But that 's not the point. They know they 've beaten India in a crucial World Cup match once ; they claim they 've got the potential to do so once again and that should matter . MS Dhoni & Co. better not get complacent . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
