Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Sri Lanka opening batsman Lahiru Thirimanne was reprieved three times before his charmed life ended on 52 , having been dropped on the fourth ball by Anamul Haque who put down an easy , waist-high chance at slip off the bowling of his captain Mashrafe Mortaza . That set the tone for an afternoon of grassed catches , missed run-out opportunities and leaked runs from sloppy fielding that made Bangladesh 's place at the global showpiece seem an embarrassing anomaly . Bangladesh wicketkeeper Mushfiqur Rahim had a nightmare afternoon , failing to go for a nick by Thirimanne behind the wicket that flew between the stumper and slip in the ninth over . Midway through the innings , he missed a stumping chance to dismiss the opener and later a run-out chance in the 43rd over when Dilshan was well short of his ground after being sent back at the striker 's end . Thirimanne was dismissed when attempting an ill-conceived ramp shot off paceman Rubel Hossain that flew straight to Taskin Ahmed fielding at third man . That ended a partnership of 122 , but Sangakkara picked up where the opener left off , again profiting from Bangladesh 's abysmal fielding . After striking an imperious off-drive for four off paceman Taskin Ahmed to move to 23 , the classy lefthander was nearly out the next ball when the bowler banged in a short one . Bunting the ball straight back , Taskin dived low to gets hands to it but spilt the tough chance . Dilshan brought up his 21st ODI century with a streaky two from an inside edge behind the wicket after dancing down the pitch to Shakib Al Hasan . Shortly after , Sangakkara was dropped again on 60 off the bowling of Rubel , cutting straight to point where Mominul Haque put down a sitter at chest-height . Monimul 's petulant response , throwing the ball at the bowler 's end in frustration , caused three runs from an over-throw. Sangakkara responded by slapping a six straight over Rubel 's head . Dilshan hogged the strike in the closing overs , clubbing 22 fours from his imperious knock and Sangakkara had to wait until the first ball of the last over to bring up his ton in his 400th ODI . He drove to long-off for a single to complete his 22nd ODI century , and the pair added another 11 runs to drive their team to 332-1 . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
