World Cup 2015 : Domingo defends Philander , Phangiso decisions The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 27 , 2015 , 10.49PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 JOHANNESBURG : South Africa coach Russell Domingo Friday defended playing bowler Vernon Philander in the four-wicket World Cup semifinal loss to co-hosts New Zealand . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 And the handler also justified his decision not to use Aaron Phangiso -- the sole black African in the 15-man squad - during the quadrennial tournament . Domingo was speaking in Johannesburg after arriving with some of the squad. Limited airline seats meant the cricketers , coaches and officials could not travel together . He dismissed media claims that fast bowler Philander , picked ahead of in-form seamer Kyle Abbott , was not fit to face New Zealand in Auckland last Tuesday . Philander , who missed the nine-wicket quarterfinal demolition of Sri Lanka through injury , conceded 52 runs off eight overs at Eden Park and failed to capture a wicket . " Vernon was fit to play , " insisted Domingo at OR Tambo airport east of Johannesburg , where hundreds greeted the coach and players . " Vernon has been a champion bowler in all formats. When there is something in the wicket , Vernon is one of the best at exploiting those kind of conditions. " Domingo also backed his decision to sideline spinner Phangiso throughout the six-match group phase . " Imran Tahir has been such a good player for us in this format , " the coach told reporters . " We had just lost to Pakistan and simply had to play our strongest team against the United Arab Emirates to ensure we finished second in our group. " Many black African supporters of the 'Proteas ' disagreed and vented their anger on social media. Some referred to the " lily white " South African team . The team that faced New Zealand comprised seven white cricketers , two of Asian descent and two of mixed race . An unsourced report this week said the national cricket governing body will demand that the six top-flight franchises pick at least three black Africans and a maximum of six whites for games next season . This season , domestic teams had to include at least two black Africans and at least three cricketers of Asian origin or mixed race . Captain AB de Villiers said he had no regrets after the loss , which deprived South Africa of a first World Cup final appearance . " We left everything out there on the field. We gave it our absolute best , " said the batsman . " The main prize in my heart is coming back and seeing the difference we made for the youth of South Africa . " Ultimately that is what it is all about -- to perform in a way that inspires the future. " He also backed veteran fast bowler Dale Steyn , who conceded a six off the penultimate ball to Johannesburg-born Grant Elliott that decided the cliff-hanger . " I did not speak to Dale after every ball. Yorkers were out because Grant was guiding them down to fine leg for four . " I backed Dale to show his skills but , unfortunately , it did not happen. " Domingo said Proteas ' supporters may not have realized the pressure the team faced in the semi-final . " There was pressure , anxiety and tension playing in front of 45,000 people . " I sat watching the highlights of the game about seven times , thinking what we could have done differently . " New Zealand played the better cricket. They won the match -- we did not lose it . " We offer no excuses. We know we missed one or two opportunities. " Co-hosts Australia and New Zealand meet Sunday in the final in Melbourne . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
