Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The only cricketer in the world to score two double centuries in ODIs , Rohit has got good starts in most games but has been able to convert them into 50-plus scores in only two matches -- against UAE ( 57 not out ) and Ireland ( 64 ) . Dhoni would not , however , read too much on Rohit 's dip in form. Rather , he has all positive words for his teammate . " Well , we have to consider the fact there have been instances where we have chased quite a few times so far in the tournament , and if the opposition ( UAE , West Indies ) have not scored too many runs , the openers , they ca n't score the same number of runs , " he said in Rohit 's defence . Dhoni then explained as to why it 's important to take note of the manner in which someone is batting rather than the volume of runs accumulated . " What is important is to see what kind of a start they have got. I feel Rohit has batted really well so far. He looks quite calm and composed , and at the same time he 's playing the shots really well. That 's something of a key factor , " said the captain . Rohit has so far scored 159 runs in six group league matches at a mediocre average of 31.8 with two half-centuries to his credit. ( AP Photo ) " It 's not always about the runs. We have seen batsmen who are playing really well but they have not scored runs ( in matches ) , and all of a sudden you see a game where they score really big and they come back. So it 's not really being out of form. What 's important is to spend time in the middle , and I think Rohit has done enough of that , " he said . Ravindra Jadeja 's form with the bat has been a worry but after getting hammered by Brendan Taylor and company , ending with figures of none for 71 against Zimbabwe , his bowling has also come under scanner . Dhoni said Jadeja 's batting form was a cause of concern but at the same time had his defence for the Saurashtra lad ready . " Well , I think to some extent you may say it 's a bit of a concern , but at the same time , as I said , if you are worried about Raina in the sense , he has not got enough chance to bat , but he has still done decently well. It 's difficult to go down further because then you come to me and say , okay , maybe you have batted a bit. But Jadeja has not got too many much chances with the bat. Also it 's not easy to get in and slog over here , " Dhoni said , in defence of Jadeja 's poor batting . The skipper , however , admitted that Jadeja has blown hot and cold in his bowling . " Only the bowling , I think , has bowled decently well in patches. He 's still improving , and overall , he 's a key ingredient. The reason being it gives us that hope , and we have put in a lot of effort and time in him since the last World Cup. Jadeja has been a regular part of the team , and he has actually done really well for us. I 'm quite happy with the way he 's bowling , " Dhoni said . Dhoni reasoned Jadeja 's poor figures against Zimbabwe to the short boundaries of the Eden Park . " I wo n't really consider that game because both Ashwin and him ( Jadeja ) , they went for shorter boundaries and it was difficult , and the way Taylor was batting , he took them on , " said Dhoni . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
