Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Duminy ( 3/29 ) dismissed Sri Lanka skipper Angelo Mathews ( 19 ) with the final ball of the 33rd over and returned to send back Nuwan Kulasekara ( 1 ) and ODI debutant Tharindu Kaushal ( 0 ) with the first two deliveries of the 35th . The ninth World Cup hat-trick left the 1996 champions reeling at 116/8 after the loss four wickets for just two runs in three overs and when Kumar Sangakkara was dismissed soon afterwards , the writing was on the wall . Sangakkara , who had been looking for a fifth successive century , scored a measured 45 from 95 balls but was forced to throw off the shackles as the wickets tumbled around him and holed out to deep third man off paceman Morne Morkel . A heavy shower appeared out of the blue as if to mourn what looks like being the final one-day innings of one of the game 's great batsmen and the players came off the pitch for a 23-minute rain break . South Africa 's Jean-Paul Duminy celebrates after taking a hat-trick against Sri Lanka in the World Cup quarterfinal at the Sydney Cricket Ground. ( Reuters Photo ) It only delayed the inevitable , however , and Lasith Malinga ( 3 ) was the last man to depart , hammering the ball to David Miller at cover off South Africa 's other main spin threat Imran Tahir . Tahir took 4/26 , including the wicket of Mahela Jayawardene to leave another retiring Sri Lanka batting great with a tally of four runs in his final innings in the 50-over format . Sri Lanka , who won the toss and chose to bat , were never able to score at a pace that would have put pressure on the South Africans and test their mental resolve . While Sangakkara was at the crease , though , they would have fancied their chances of putting on some kind of tally for their bowlers to defend . Once he departed and the rain cleared , however , the semifinal appointment in Auckland against New Zealand or West Indies next week would now seem to be South Africa 's to keep . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
