World Cup 2015 : Elliott dedicates win to long-suffering fans The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 24 , 2015 , 05.08PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Johannesburg-born Grant Elliott dedicated New Zealand 's thrilling four-wicket win to long-suffering Kiwi fans after his undefeated 84 steered the Black Caps into a first World Cup final after six previous semifinal losses . Elliott , who turned 36 at the weekend , hit a six off the penultimate ball to take New Zealand into Sunday 's final in Melbourne where they will face either Australia or defending champions India . " It is great. I do n't think this win is for myself , or the team , it is for everyone here. The support has been amazing , " said Elliott , who smashed Dale Steyn into the stands for the match-clinching six . " We just wanted to take it as deep as we could. Corey Anderson ( 58 ) batted well and we timed the innings to perfection . " When you have 40,000 fans screaming at you every ball , it has been an absolute pleasure playing at Eden Park and playing in front of the home crowd . " We have had a good run , this is the first final we have been in and we will approach it as any other match. " Skipper Brendon McCullum made a 26-ball 59 to also help the Black Caps to their rain-adjusted target of 298 after South Africa had made 281 for five batting first in a match reduced to 43 overs per side . For South Africa , Faf du Plessis made 82 , captain AB de Villiers was not out 65 , while David Miller smashed an 18-ball 49 . But the rain came at the worst possible time as they were well-set at 216 for three in the 38th over when play was halted for two hours . " These boys , I am so proud of them. A lesser team would have laid down today. To see Grant come in and be as calm as he was... we 've given ourselves a chance of the big prize , " said McCullum . " Credit to South Africa , they gave as good as they got. I feel for them at the moment. But our boys were outstanding. And it was a great semi-final. " De Villiers was distraught as South Africa , who 've yet to reach a World Cup final , once again came up short . " It 's really painful but we have no regrets. We left it all out on the field. We had opportunities and it will take us a long time to get over this , " he said . " All the best to New Zealand -- they played a great game. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
