World Cup 2015 : England determined to end campaign in victory The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 12 , 2015 , 01.15PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Defeat in Fridays ' final pool match would be " horrendous " and the whole England World Cup party is resolutely focused only on beating Afghanistan , assistant coach Paul Farbrace said on Thursday . England , who have been pilloried since losing to Bangladesh on Monday to end their hopes of reaching the quarterfinals , have one last chance to impress at the tournament during the match against the World Cup debutants at the Sydney Cricket Ground . While there would undoubtedly be a post mortem of what went wrong at the World Cup , Farbrace said , that would have to wait for later . " For now , I promise you , the only focus is trying to get us in a great position where we can win tomorrow 's game , " he told reporters . " If losing the other day to Bangladesh was terrible , we could n't possibly measure what it would be like if it ( went ) against us because that would be horrendous . " Our job now is to make sure we give ourselves the best chance , clear heads and go and play the cricket that we 've said we wanted to play all the way through. " Farbrace said criticism of under-fire coach Peter Moores for being obsessed with data was wide of the mark based on his time as coach of Sri Lanka team , who relied on statistics . He also felt that the whole backroom staff needed to take the blame for the debacle . " We can have no complaints about some of the stick that we 've taken , because it just has n't been good enough , " he added . " ( But ) we 're in this together as a team. We 're all responsible. It 's not just Pete. We 're all responsible. You win as a team , you lose as a team , and every single member of the coaching team has to share that responsibility with Pete. " Afghanistan have already got a win in their maiden campaign against Scotland and Hamid Hassan thinks they have a chance of another if he and his fellow quicks can get amongst the demoralised English batsmen . " If we go to the plan and we bowl consistent in good areas , " he said. " So maybe we can take them as soon as possible. We have a very good bowling attack , and hopefully we 'll do some good performance tomorrow against England. " The tall paceman , whose face paint , bandana and exuberant celebrations have made him a cult figure at the tournament , bridled when it was suggested the Afghans might fear England . " Scared ? Afghan never scared , never scared , " he said. " No fears , no nothing. We have to play always brave. So we 'll play tomorrow brave. Afghan is never scared. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
