World Cup 2015 : England on edge in last chance saloon The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 8 , 2015 , 11.41AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : England face a potential banana skin when Eoin Morgan 's beleaguered side play Bangladesh in a make-or-break World Cup clash in Adelaide on Monday . England lost to Bangladesh by two wickets in the last World Cup in 2011 -- a match in which Morgan made 63 -- but still survived the shock defeat to qualify for the quarterfinals . There will , however , be no second chance this time as England , with one win in four matches , must beat both Bangladesh at the Adelaide Oval and Afghanistan in Sydney on March 13 to stay in contention for the last eight . Even that may not be enough if Bangladesh , who have five points to England 's two , upset co-hosts New Zealand in Hamilton on March 13 to squeak through to the quarterfinals from Pool A . Morgan will be expected to lead from the front but the gifted left-hander had scored just two half-centuries in 16 World Cup matches so far , nine of them playing for Ireland in 2007 . England have been defeated by Bangladesh just twice in 15 one-day internationals , but a woeful World Cup record over the last 20 years will have even their most optimistic supporters worried . England lost every game against a Test-playing nation in 1996 , were dumped out in the first round at home in 1999 and again in 2003 , and failed to make the semifinals in the last two editions in 2007 and 2011 . England 's lone win this time has been against minnows Scotland , but their most embarrassing moment came last Sunday when Sri Lanka chased down what seemed a reasonably challenging target of 310 with nine wickets and 16 deliveries to spare . In 2011 , England had all but wrapped up the match in Chittagong when Bangladesh 's ninth-wicket pair of Mohammad Mahmudullah and Shafiul Islam put on 58 off 56 balls to seal victory with six balls remaining . There has been a hundred each in the current tournament from Moeen Ali against Scotland and Joe Root in a losing cause against Sri Lanka , but just two other England batsmen have scored half-centuries . Morgan himself has managed just 90 runs at an average of 22.50 , but his biggest worry will be the ineffectiveness of his two pace spearheads James Anderson and Stuart Broad . Anderson 's two wickets so far have come at an unusually high average of 91 , while Broad averages 92 for his two wickets . " We certainly are not taking a win for granted , " said Morgan of Monday 's game. " Bangladesh have come a long way in the last 10 years . " If we play well , I have every confidence we can win this game. The illusion of making it a bigger game than it is , is probably the wrong thing to do. " Bangladesh , meanwhile , have ensured that sharing points with co-hosts Australia in the rained-off match in Brisbane has not been wasted . Having beaten Afghanistan before losing to Sri Lanka , Bangladesh came up with what skipper Mashrafe Mortaza described as their " best " run chase when they overhauled Scotland 's 318 for eight with 11 balls to spare for the lost of just four wickets . It was the second-best winning chase in World Cup history following Ireland 's 329 to defeat England in a Bangalore thriller four years ago . Bangladesh will be without batsman Anamul Haque , who was ruled out for the rest of the tournament due to a dislocated shoulder and has been replaced by the experienced Imrul Kayes . Mortaza said the Tigers , who have made it past the first round just once in the World Cup , are keyed up for Monday 's day/night game . " That win over Scotland has given us a lot of confidence , " he said. " The whole team is very excited about this England game. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
