World Cup 2015 : England remain vulnerable despite loss , says Mommsen The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 23 , 2015 , 03.32PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : Scotland captain Preston Mommsen was disappointed with the batting effort from his lowly-ranked Scotland side after believing they were capable of winning their ICC World Cup 2015 Pool A clash after restricting England to 303/8 . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Scotland lost by 119 runs on Monday and have now lost both their opening games while England notched their first win with an innings built on a 172-run opening partnership between Moeen Ali and Ian Bell . England 's batting fell away after their departure with the last 15 overs producing 102 runs for the loss of six wickets and that was how Mommsen preferred to remember the game . " I thought we did brilliantly to restrict them to only 300 with the platform they had and the batters they had to come , " he said . " Once we got rid of Ian Bell and Moeen Ali they were pretty vulnerable in the middle and we knew we could keep taking wickets which allowed us to restrict them to 300 . " We went into that half-time break pretty confident we were in with a shout. It was a good wicket. " But Scotland , an associate member of the International Cricket Council up against a senior Test-playing nation , put up their own brittle batting display . Opener Kyle Coetzer produced a bold 71 with Mommsen 's 26 the next best score , and only four batters reached double figures . " I thought Kyle batted beautifully but with not enough support and not enough platform there to have a proper shot at that chase , " Mommsen said . " Some of the dismissals were slightly disappointing. We had a bit more time than we thought in that chase and it 's quite a quick outfield there . " We were looking for the 100-run partnership but unfortunately it was n't there for us. " Although England wrapped up the game with more than seven overs to spare to maintain their unbeaten record over Scotland , Mommsen said the result did not reflect the narrowing margin between the cross-border rivals . " I would n't think it 's that big. I 'm very disappointed. We 're a better side than what we showed there today. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
