World Cup 2015 : England 's Lanka loss worse than Kiwi crushing , feels Atherton The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 2 , 2015 , 04.43PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 LONDON : England may have been utterly humiliated in their second World Cup pool match against co-hosts New Zealand but Sunday 's nine-wicket defeat to Sri Lanka was much more damaging , according to former England captain Michael Atherton . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Tim Southee claimed 7-33 and skipper Brendon McCullum blasted the fastest half-century in tournament history as the Kiwis shot out England for 123 and romped home in the 13th over in a ridiculously one-sided match in Wellington . By comparison , Eoin Morgan and his team put up a better batting display against Sri Lanka , posting 309-6 , even though it was not enough to avert a nine-wicket defeat . " In some ways , this was a more damaging defeat than the one against New Zealand , " Atherton wrote in the Times newspaper . " It was possible to park that match out of the mind : an aberration , a one-off calamity , and against one of the most fancied and confident teams in the tournament , " the former opener said of the earlier defeat . " This was worse. It lasted longer and therefore England 's defects were plain to see , and against a team who most would have said are slightly past their best and unfancied. " England , who registered their only win in four outings against lowly Scotland , can still progress to the quarter-finals of a tournament they have never won but the weaknesses are too glaring for Atherton . " ... ( Paceman ) James Anderson looks a shadow of his potent self , unable to swing the white Kookaburra as others have done. This looks , at the moment , like a one-day tournament too far for him , " he said . " Not that Stuart Broad is any more incisive : between them in almost 60 overs they have taken just four wickets at 92 runs apiece. And this was supposed to be England 's strong suit. " Morgan and his team face Bangladesh in their next Pool A match on March 9 and Atherton , who played 115 tests in the 1989-2001 period , advocated a top order re-jig . " Alex Hales must be given a go at the top of the order alongside ( Moeen ) Ali , with Ian Bell moving to first drop , " he said , contrasting England 's match to the slugfest between New Zealand and Australia that took place in Auckland a day earlier . " As England 's World Cup hopes hang by a thread , doing nothing is not an option. If Australia and New Zealand gave us a glimpse of the future this weekend , it is past failings that are staring England in the face again. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
