Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 | Points Table " Everyone has been put under pressure , whether the three fast bowlers or the spinners , or the top order in a few games. This is the difference between playing here and a bilateral series , where the lower order is hardly tested. That 's why these games can be tough as the lower order has not got a lot of chance to bat. Our lower order got a bit to bat today , " Dhoni said in the post-match presentation . " Even when Virat ( Kohli ) went in to bat ( today ) , we felt a bit of pressure. Zimbabwe are a good side , but we were expected to win. The wicket was slow and the ball was n't coming on nicely , and we did n't have enough pace to work with , " he said . Heaping praise on Man of the Match Suresh Raina for his 110-run knock , Dhoni said , " Raina is a key player for us at No. 5. The partnership between Raina and I was very good. " On what changed for the team since the disastrous bilateral series against Australia before the World Cup , Dhoni said , " I think it is more the processes than the results. Also the boys have taken on their responsibilities quite well. We have been here for over three months now , and we need to give the guys some break in between , so getting fresh has helped as well. " Raina , meanwhile , said it was good to steer India to victory in the company of his ever-encouraging skipper . " I am glad the hard work came off. Once MS came , it certainly helped as well. When the team needed me the most , I just wanted to be positive and smart , especially in the powerplays. I am glad we were able to do it really well in the end , " he said . " MS and I have played a lot of matches together , and have finished a lot of matches together. MS told me that I just ca n't smash every ball , but he did back my strengths on the field , " he added . Zimbabwe captain Brendan Taylor , who was playing his last international match , rued the missed opportunities . " We played some brilliant cricket , and have been shoddy at times. Just a few dropped catches , and maybe finishing off the death bowling , but overall we have played some good cricket , " he said . " India proved why they are the top of the group. It is nice to get a few runs , but it is sad to have ended. It has been a joyful ride though , " he added . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
