World Cup 2015 : Eyes on Kirsten as South Africa prepare for India The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 19 , 2015 , 08.32AM IST Gary Kirsten is now helping plot South Africa 's bid for the coveted prize. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Having coached one team to the World Cup title , Gary Kirsten is now helping plot another nation 's bid for the coveted prize -- and the two will meet when India take on South Africa on Sunday . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Kirsten , the former South African opening batsman , was India 's coach when Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's men won the World Cup in Mumbai four years ago . He left the job immediately after the tournament to take over as South Africa 's coach , serving the Proteas for two years before handing the baton to his deputy Russell Domingo . The 47-year-old is now back with AB de Villiers ' side as a consultant for 50 days a year and joined the squad on Wednesday after returning from the players ' auction in the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) where he coaches the Delhi Daredevils franchise . Kirsten will be at hand to watch the two sides meet at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on Sunday in a key Pool B match which will almost certainly assure the winner a place in the quarter-finals . Both teams won their opening games with India thrashing arch-rivals Pakistan by 76 runs in Adelaide and South Africa beating neighbours Zimbabwe by 62 runs in Hamilton . Kirsten was not around in Hamilton when the mighty Proteas slipped to a nervous 83 for four before brilliant centuries from David Miller and JP Duminy turned the game around against their lowly-ranked rivals . Kirsten was India 's coach when Dhoni 's men won the World Cup four years ago. ( TOI Photo ) South Africa have never won the World Cup despite being one of the most powerful sides in modern-day cricket and Kirsten 's input will be vital as the Proteas seek to overcome the " chokers " tag . " I 'm desperately hoping that we win the World Cup this year , " Kirsten told the Kolkata-based Telegraph newspaper , but added he will not be carried away emotionally by Sunday 's match . " In a professional environment , work is work. Whatever the colours you wear , you 're expected to give your best shot. In today 's world , little is unknown as information spreads fast and gets shared. " Kirsten is not the only one in the South African set-up with Indian connections. Bowling coach Allan Donald is involved with the IPL and trainer Gregory King was with the Indian squad for four years till 2007 . Several players , including skipper de Villiers , Duminy , Miller and fast bowlers Dale Steyn and Morne Morkel , ply their trade in the IPL . Australian Mike Hussey , who was taken on board by the South Africans specifically for the World Cup , has also been an IPL regular since its inception in 2008 . Former India captain Sunil Gavaskar said the expertise of Kirsten and Hussey could benefit South Africa and urged Dhoni 's men not to think about them too much . " Kirsten knows how people react in the Indian dressing room , " said Gavaskar. " Hussey has also played in the IPL. They will try and tell how to play spinners , how to negotiate 20 overs of spin . " It will help to an extent but then a lot depends on how they play on the field. It will only help South Africa if India think too much about Kirsten and Hussey. These things are peripheral. " India have never beaten South Africa in the World Cup , having lost all three times in 1992 , 1999 and 2011 . Kirsten , who played 101 Tests and 185 one-day internationals between 1993 and 2004 , holds the record for the highest individual score at a World Cup -- 188 off 159 balls against the United Arab Emirates in Rawalpindi in 1996 . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
