World Cup 2015 : Fastest Indian attack to have ever played , Lee says The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 24 , 2015 , 11.27AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Former Australia fast bowler Brett Lee on Tuesday termed the current Indian pace attack as the " fastest ever " to have emerged from the cricket-crazy nation , with Mohammed Shami being the " most impressive " among the trio in the World Cup . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The three-pronged pace attack comprising Umesh Yadav and Mohit Sharma , besides Shami , has so far accounted for 42 out of the 70 wickets for India in the ongoing mega event . Asked if the trio of Shami , Yadav and Sharma are the fastest ever bowling unit to have represented India , Lee said , " I think it will definitely be up there , yes. When they are on song and bowling fast , then they are definitely up there as I mentioned. They are in the 145kmph barrier . " If they land in the right spot , then they have a really good chance to get wickets and win. " The fastest bowler during his time in international cricket , the 38-year-old was all praise for Shami , with whom he had spent a couple seasons in IPL playing for the Kolkata Knight Riders . " Mohammad Shami has got the most number of wickets in the tournament and he is right up there. He has been really impressive. I have actually played a fair bit of cricket with Shami over the last couple of years and he is a wonderful guy. He comes in hard . " Umesh Yadav is another bowler , who bowls at a good pace. They have got a three-prong pace attack that can all bowl quick up towards a 145kmph mark , " the speed merchant said in appreciation . Although his heart is with Australia , Lee felt India do have a good chance to win the semifinals against the hosts . " I think India do have a very good chance to win the game. I will obviously always back Australia being an Australian player. But having said that , India have got a great side and have great momentum going. So as I said it is going to be a tough game and I am looking forward to Thursday. " Like many other former stars , Lee too is not surprised at India 's remarkable turnaround . " Not really. I know what India can do on the cricket field. They have got great players and a lot of experience to think that they have played pretty ordinary cricket against Australia throughout this summer. Then to turn it around and win seven games back-to-back just goes to show how much they love playing in the big tournament. They are defending champions too , so we have to keep that in mind. " Lee said that India 's slow bowlers might come in handy if the reports of the SCG track being slow in nature turns out to be true . " I have n't seen the pitch , but from all the reports that I am reading , I feel it will be a slow wicket. We saw it was very slow in the last game that South Africa won. It could be a bit low and slow and probably the slower bowlers will come into play which might just favour India , " observed Lee . Lee agreed that Virat Kohli 's performance could be the game-changer as he is a " big occasion player " . " Virat is a world class player and he has proven that over the last few years. He obviously has got the right technique , a wonderful opportunity now for him to go and stamp his authority in the game. He is a big game player. He will be looking forward to the semifinal as he also loves to play against Australia. He will be looking forward to Thursday. " Can India expect some 'chin music ' coming their way , Lee said , " If the wicket is conducive to fast bowling then yes. They obviously have got three bowlers that can bowl some chin music. " For Lee , the advantage for Australia is in the kind of balance that they have struck in their playing XI combination . " I think they ( Australia ) now have the right balance of the team. Warner and Finch at the top , Steven Smith has settled in beautifully at No 3. Michael Clarke comes in at No 4 , Shane Watson at No 5 , which gives a really good balance to the side. " About the bowling combination , Lee reckoned that Pat Cummins might just have a good chance of coming in the side even though Josh Hazlewood has done his case no harm with a match-winning performance against Pakistan in the quarterfinals . " Whichever way they want to go with the quicks -- Josh Hazlewood did extremely well getting 4/35 off his 10 overs last week. Pat Cummins might get his opportunity here , so Australia is spoilt for choice. " Around 70 percent of the SCG turnout is supposed to be Indians and Lee felt the atmosphere will be electric . " It is going to be a tremendous atmosphere. With 50-odd thousand people in the Sydney Cricket Ground , fully packed , we know how passionate the Indian fans are. They love to scream and be nice and loud. So it is going to be exciting. I think it just comes down to obviously the toss and who brings their best game on game-day going forward. " So how much marks will he give both India and Australia , and pat came the reply , " Well , I give both of them 100/100. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
