World Cup 2015 : Fletcher in charge , media manager rubbishes rift rumours The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 18 , 2015 , 01.41PM IST Indian coach Duncan Fletcher ( R ) speaks to a player during a training session. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : The Indian team management on Wednesday sought to deny a media report about chief coach Duncan Fletcher being ignored meetings and also not being kept in the loop about team strategy . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 With Indian team taking a day-off and players being left on their own to relax , there were reports of team 's support staff led by Team Director Ravi Shastri having an impromptu meeting at the team hotel 'Langham ' with Fletcher not informed about it . " I can confirm that no such meeting was held. There is absolutely no truth that Duncan was not kept in the loop about a meeting of the support staff. I can only term this as figment of imagination , " team 's media manager DR RN Baba said when specifically asked about about the rift among support staff . The general notion since Shastri 's appointment has been that it 's a move by BCCI to clip Fletcher 's wings after team 's poor overseas record over a period of time . In fact , according to team sources , bowling coach Bharath Arun and fielding coach R Sridhar , apparently went to meet their common friend in the evening during the time when the so-called meeting of support staff without Fletcher was supposedly held . When contacted a senior BCCI official currently in India , said , " Do you people seriously think that Fletcher needs to be sidelined with these kind of childish tricks " . " Fletcher has a contract till the end of the World Cup , which is only a month and half away. We do n't think he will seek an extension. So if a man is leaving after the World Cup , do you need to do something like this , " the offical said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
