Virat Kohli vs Australia Duel Continues on Day 5 Virat Kohli vs Australia Duel Continues on Day 5 Virat Kohli was again in the spotlight early on in India 's second innings as Australian fielders rounded up on him after the tourists were reduced to 5/2 , chasing 384 for a win . Last updated on Tuesday , 30 December , 2014 12 : 10 IST Total Shares Kohli was at his combative best and played some cracking shots on Tuesday . © AP The war of words between Virat Kohli and Australia continued on Day 5 of the Melbourne Test. The duel which had grabbed a spotlight apart from some fantastic cricket once again threatened to ruin the series. The dashing 26-year-old batsman from Delhi walked in with India in tatters at 5/2 , chasing a mammoth 384 to win the series and he was immediately in the thick of action , with Australian fielders all over him. Kohli , however , showed stern resolve and appeared set for another masterclass before he lost his concentration to perish for 54 first ball after tea. ( Scorecard | Blog ) Kohli had punched Mitchell Johnson down the ground when David Warner stopped the ball at mid-off and Kohli set off for a quick single even as Murali Vijay stayed rooted at the non-striker 's end. The Indian vice-captain was half-way down the pitch and made it back to his own end only thanks to a poor throw from Warner. Kohli was miffed with Vijay and that was the cue for wicketkeeper Brad Haddin - " There he goes off at his teammate again. " Kohli quickly shot back - " It 's your last series , mate. " Another trigger and another confrontation. Things had started to heat up with Australia clearly on top . Plenty of feeling out in the middle ! Watch the full incident via this link HERE : http : //t.co/CMBR77Ki5z # AUSvIND https : //t.co/VjYqDI5lon — cricket.com.au ( @ CricketAus ) December 30 , 2014 Former India captain Sunil Gavaskar was not impressed with what transpired in the middle and felt cricket had lost a great opportunity to rid itself of this abhorrent practice of sledging : " After Phillip Hughes ' death cricket was in a different situation. Not a lot of people wanted to play the game - not the Australians , not the Indians. The Indians started the sledging in Adelaide , not Australia. The Aussies showed they can win without saying a word to anyone , " Gavaskar said on air. ( Nothing Wrong With Kohli 's Aggression : Kohli ) Gavaskar also refused to accept the modern theory that the exchange of words and sledging was an inevitable part of the game. " If it ( sledging ) was indeed part of the game , the umpires would not have had to intervene. Before play starts , the umpires should tell the players that the only words on the field should be to encourage their own fielders - nothing should be said to the opposition. " The Indian number four was prepared for Australian banter and he did not let the words get to him playing some crisp shots both sides of wicket for yet another half-century , the 10th of his career. Kohli had added 85 for the fourth wicket with Ajinkya Rahane but flicked a Ryan Harris delivery to Joe Burns at square leg off the first ball of the final session . — cricket.com.au ( @ CricketAus ) December 30 , 2014 Kohli of course , knew he had it coming after his aggressive stance against the Aussies. He sledged them , took them on and has been India 's best batsman on show with three hundreds. At a press conference on Sunday , Kohli insisted he had no respect for some of the Aussie cricketers and was annoyed with Johnson. On the final day , with their tails up , Australia were raring to make life difficult for him . The modern India cricketer does not back off from a confrontation but many , including the Aussie team feels Kohli has been guilty of provocation. Some in the Indian camp may feel Kohli is taking India towards a new brand of cricket with his fearless and ruthless attitude. However , Gavaskar differed in his opinion . " If this ( Kohli 's aggression ) is having some steel , are you suggesting that Sachin Tendulkar , Rahul Dravid , VVS Laxman , Anil Kumble and Sourav Ganguly did not have it ? " Gavaskar told NDTV . " They were also massively tough on the field. " " If somebody says something to you , do n't back off. If you believe what the person is saying is not correct , you have to stand up , " said Gavaskar. " But I do n't think we should be initiating anything. " This was a crucial day in the series for India. After playing some good cricket , they are in danger of losing the third Test. Kohli got off to another good start and his innings would have been the key for the tourists to get away with a draw. He was dismissed first ball after tea , just one short of 500 runs in the series - his 499 are now the most by a visiting number four in Australia . Story first published on : Tuesday , 30 December 2014 09 : 23 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
