World Cup 2015 : For Rowe , West Indies a 'dark horse' The author has posted comments on this article Ruchir Mishra , TNN | Mar 2 , 2015 , 11.35PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : For a brief period in the 1970s , Lawrence Rowe was regarded as the most accomplished batsman in the Caribbeans since Gary Sobers. He began his Test career on a monumental note , hitting a double century and a century against New Zealand in his debut game. He followed it up with a triple ton against England before fading from the scene after playing only 30 Tests . Now 66 , Rowe knows a thing or two about the unpredictable nature of West Indies cricket and that 's why he calls them the " dark horse " in this World Cup. " I might sound biased but I wo n't count West Indies out because of their unpredictability and power-hitters in the line-up. They have n't played well of late but let 's not forget they are a dangerous side , with some match-winners. They have a decent middle order. I am sure they will make it to the quarters and from there on , it 's all about three good days. They can upset any side on their day , " Rowe told TOI from Miami . " Chris Gayle 's innings was brilliant , even though it came against Zimbabwe. He has come back to form and it 's good news for West Indies. It 's all about putting all those individual performances together , " he added . While West Indies ' bowling used to be dreaded once , it 's not the same now. Ireland chased over 300 against them with ease , while AB de Villiers blew them away. " They do n't have one standout bowler who can run through the side. It has to be a team effort. They all have to put different aspects of their games together. They need to have two , three good games together and that 's been the problem in the last few years. They are too inconsistent , " Rowe said. He added , " I was n't too keen on a young captain on the big stage. I think they should have given captaincy to Gayle because of his vast experience. ( Jason ) Holder would have been better of playing as a bowler , " he said . West Indies are clearly missing the services of Sunil Narine who is not the part of the squad due to problems relating to his action. " He is not playing in the World Cup so there 's no point thinking about that. Of course , he is a crafty bowler and he would have made a difference but I think West Indies can do well without him , " he said . Rowe is impressed with the Indian bowling attack. " I do n't think Indian bowling line-up is thin. Whatever Indian batsmen put up on the board , they backed it up. Their pacers look good and sharp and they have utilized the conditions well. Their spinners too have backed them well. So , overall , things are going alright for India. They have it in them to go far in the tournament , " Rowe pointed out . When asked about the upcoming India-West Indies match , Rowe said , " As a West Indian , I would love to see West Indies do well but I love the way India are playing , especially in the last few years. Of course , India will be favourites. Since the Perth wicket offers something to the bowlers , I wo n't count West Indies out. If the bowlers can restrict India and they show some discipline in batting , they have the side to beat India , " he concluded . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
