World Cup 2015 : From two stumps to flashing bails , evolution of the wicket The author has posted comments on this article Sutapa Singha , TNN | Mar 12 , 2015 , 02.40PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Anything rectangular or cylindrical , that can stand on one end , can and will be used as wickets - reads the gully cricket law-book. But , the three stilts on which the game of cricket rests has a long and colourful history. We decode the wicket . And then ICC said , let there be light . It 's three weeks into the ICC Cricket World Cup , and by now you must have noticed how , every time the stumps come in contact with the ball , or glove , or bat , it lights up like Diwali phuljhadis ! But that has left ICC worried. Dhoni 's habit of taking home the middle stump as a memento each time India wins a match is costing the cricket board a lot. To be precise : US $ 40,000 ( ` 25 lakh approx ) . You see , the wicket stumps have come a long way from just being pieces of wood . The Zing wicket system , or the flashing wickets , that lights up at the slightest vibrations are the latest technology incorporated in the gentleman 's game , intended to make stump out and run out decisions easier and accurate. These fibre-made stumps were first conceived by Bronte EcKermann , an Australian mechanical industrial designer , and created by South Australian manufacturer Zing International - the reason behind the moniker , apart from the obvious fact that it adds a lot of zing to the game . Low voltage batteries are incorporated in each of the bails and stumps. A microprocessor in each bail detects when both spigots are dislodged from the stump grooves. The wickets come fitted with LEDs. The bails also have an in-built sensor than can determine if a wicket is broken , in just 1/1,000th of a second . You see , the wicket has played a long innings since it first came into play in the form of a stump. Literally. A tree stump . It all started with two stumps In the earliest days of cricket , the wicket consisted of a tree stump. It was only after cricket made its debut as a professional game that the stumps and the bails came into existence. But even then , the first wicket gate - as it was then called was made out of just two stumps . The need for the middle stump was felt when , in 1775 , Lumpy Stevens bowled John Small several times , but the ball passed through the two stumps , not touching either of them. Since there was no contact , Small could not be declared out. Thereafter , to determine whether the ball really passed through the 'wicket space ' , or over them , the middle stump was brought in. It was not before the dawn of the next century - in 1817 - that bails were even mentioned . Then came the eyes and ears The Indian cricket team 's ingenuous vocabulary can sure make for a Wikipedia page. For example , Ghanti is used to refer to Ian Bell and Tarak Mehta is the code for a doosra. And Dhoni favourite way to reprimand teammates is to give them the girlfriend line - " Idhar aaja , girlfriend nahin hai wahan ! " How do we know all these ? Thanks to the stump microphone . It was in the early '80s that the stump microphone was introduced by an Australian broadcasting channel. And soon it was followed by the stump camera. They were instrumental in revolutionizing the game as they allowed the audience to get much closer to the action on the ground. Now , the viewer had an eye and ear right there , on the pitch ( which made each one of them expert commentators ) . While the stump camera made viewing the game more impactful with close angle shots from the batsman 's and umpire 's end , the microphone made sure nothing being said on the ground was off the record ! The introduction of the microphone did cut down on the sledging drastically , but it sure made cricket a lot more entertaining. Talk of playing dirty ! Caught on the stump mic MS Dhoni & Ambati Rayudu : Dhoni reprimanding Rayudu for being a sluggish fielder in Tuesday 's match against Ireland : Jaag ke zara... Volleyball ki tarah khada hua hai beach mein. ( Rayudu , wake up... Standing there as if you are playing Volleyball on the beach ! ) Mark Waugh & James Ormond : James Ormond came out to bat in a match with Australia. Mark Waugh , at the slip threw a " What are you doing out here ? You 're too shit to play for England ! " to him. Ormond replied , " Maybe so , but at least I 'm the best player in my family. " Ian Botham & Rod Marsh : In an Ashes match , Botham arrived at the wicket to encounter Marsh 's " How 's your wife and my kids ? " Botham gave it back with , " The wife 's fine. Kid 's are retarded. " Merv Hughes & Javed Miandad : During a test between Pakistan and Australia in 1991 , Miandad tried to sledge Merv saying , " Merv you are a big , fat bus conductor " . Only a few balls later , Merv dismissed Miandad , ran past him and shouted , " Tickets please ! " Ravi Shastri & Mike Whitney : Mike Whitney was on the field as a sub fielder while Shastri was batting. Shastri hit the ball to Whitney and contemplated a single. Whitney threw the ball and said , " Stay in your crease or I 'll break your f * * kin head " . Shastri replied , " If you could bowl as well as you talk you would n't be the f * * ken 12th man ! " Sunil Gavaskar & Viv Richards : In one India vs West Indies test , Sunil Gavaskar decided to drop down to No 4 from his usual opening position. Malcolm Marshall then proceeded to dismiss Gaekwad and Vengsarkar for no score. When Gavaskar came out to bat , Richards said cheekily , " Man , it do n't matter where you come in , the score is still zero ( sic ) ! " Viv Richards & Greg Thomas : In a county match in England , Thomas was bowling to Richards who missed a couple of the deliveries. After Richards played and missed another one , Thomas said , " It 's red , it 's round. Now f * * kin hit it ( sic ) ! " . Richards hit the next ball out of the grounds , walked up to Thomas and said , " You know what it looks like. Now go and get it. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
