World Cup 2015 : Gayle , pacers on India 's mind ahead of Windies clash The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Mar 5 , 2015 , 10.52AM IST The way Chris Gayle carted the Zimbabwe bowling in Canberra to become the first batsman to register a double century in the World Cup has given his team much-needed fillip. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 PERTH : Team India envisages its upcoming clash with the West Indies as largely a battle against the enigmatic Chris Gayle , and of course their own batsmen against the Caribbean fast bowlers . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Much of West Indies ' fortunes have rested on the form and fitness of the tall and powerful opener , who on his day can make any bowling attack look mediocre . The way he carted the Zimbabwe bowling in Canberra to become the first batsman to register a double century in the World Cup has given his team much-needed fillip . However , on the fast and bouncy WACA wicket , the battle will be as much between the star-studded Indian batting against the tall and sturdy West Indies fast bowlers . The Indian batsmen , having done exceedingly well against Pakistan and South Africa in their earlier games , are a confident lot and look well geared to tackle the rival bowling . " We have played at the WACA twice this summer and know the conditions well. All our batsmen are among the runs and we expect them to come good on the pitch where the bounce is true and the outfield is fast. The team is on a roll and we would like to keep our winning streak going. We are desperate to go to New Zealand on a high , " said an official of the Indian team . After the West Indies clash , India will be moving to Kiwiland for games against Ireland and Zimbabwe. With the batting bases covered , India expect their bowlers to take care of Gayle and Co . Luckily for India , Gayle is a moody character and is also suffering from chronic back pain which has hindered his effort on the field. Still when he is in the mood , he can be a dangerous customer and can snatch the match away with a whiplash of a bat he wields . However , West Indies legend and current selector Clive Lloyd said that Gayle was only one of the many players the West Indies look up to make a substantial contribution . " It is a team game. No doubt individuals make a great contribution. But we can not negate the role of the other players. West Indies notched up 304 against Ireland with Gayle 's contribution being mere 36. Yes , his double hundred against Zimbabwe came at the right time for the team and we expect him to continue making substantial contributions going ahead in the tournament , " Lloyd said . There is no doubt that a fit and firing Gayle is a vital cog in West Indies ' plans and he needs to be at his best on the field. Even Lloyd realizes that and therefore after the training session at the Murdoch University ground on Tuesday , he sat alone with Gayle in the balcony for half an hour to give him a pep talk . After India on Friday , the West Indies will have to wait for a week before they take on UAE in Napier in their last game on March 15 . " We realize that West Indies can be a dangerous side and we need to gain an upper hand early in the match. Our plan would be to put their game-changers like Gayle , Marlon Samuels and Andre Russell , " said the official . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
