World Cup 2015 : Grateful Tahir happy to repay South Africa The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 18 , 2015 , 03.44PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : South Africa stormed into the semifinal of the World Cup on Wednesday and nobody was more pleased than their Pakistan-born spinner Imran Tahir who was delighted to perform for his adopted country . Tahir , who turns 36 later this month , claimed 4-26 to mow down Sri Lanka 's middle order in the quarterfinal match at the Sydney Cricket Ground . In an otherwise pace-heavy attack , Tahir and JP Duminy shared seven wickets to help bowl out Sri Lanka for 133 and the Proteas romped home in 18 overs for a comprehensive nine-wicket victory . " I got everything from South Africa. I always feel I have to pay the country back , " the journeyman leg-spinner said after collecting his man-of-the-match trophy . " I 'm just really pleased and honoured to be part of this team , playing with some great players. I 'm just trying to do my role really. It 's an absolute honour and I 'm really loving it . " I really do n't know what to say. I 'm pleased that all my hard work paid off today , what I was thinking about this game and stuff. So yeah , really glad. " South Africa captain AB de Villiers said the team , determined to shed the 'chokers ' tag , was " almost obsessed " with the goal of winning and he lauded the spinners for the way they bowled against Sri Lanka , who are known for their reputation for playing spin well . " They came in a really crucial stage. We bowled seams first 14-15 overs. Most teams introduce spin before then , especially teams that do n't have that fifth bowler option in a front line bowler , " de Villiers said . " We always knew JP was going to have to bowl probably 10 ( overs ) . So for two of them to come on against a subcontinent team in a crucial stage and really perform like that gives a lot of confidence to our spin attack going into rest of the games. " His counterpart Angelo Mathews called it Sri Lanka 's worst World Cup performance . " There were no demons in the track. We could have batted well and get to at least 250 and give our bowlers a chance , " he said . " I do n't know. Maybe the nerves , did not go for out shots maybe. Easily the worst performance in World Cup. It happened to be in the quarterfinals. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
