World Cup 2015 : Ground reality will hit New Zealand The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 28 , 2015 , 09.19AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Eight victories in a row have taken New Zealand into their maiden World Cup final. They have been the team of the tournament without doubt , but there 's one angle to the story which will have their fans a little worried ahead of the big final on Sunday . Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 All of New Zealand 's wins have come at home but now the huge Melbourne Cricket Ground ( MCG ) , with a capacity of almost 90,000 where a majority would be shouting " Aussie , Aussie ! " makes it a completely different proposition from the quaint little grounds back home . Even Indian captain MS Dhoni spoke about how 'ground reality ' could be a bit of a worry for New Zealand in this game. " One of the biggest things that the New Zealand team will have to deal with is the size of the ground. In New Zealand you can get away with quite a few mistimed shots. The wickets , too , are generally very good there , but when you come to Australia , especially MCG , you get a track which can be twopaced , " Dhoni said . It 's probably the Indian captain 's words that have made the Kiwi journalists sit up to the fact that handling the conditions at MCG could be difficult for their team. New Zealand 's pace bowler Tim Southee , who walked in to meet the press after a training session on Friday , was bombarded with queries on this topic . But the way Southee faced up to it suggested that the Kiwis have made preparations to counter the conditions at MCG. " We have guys who have played a lot of cricket around the world and they know reasonably well how to play on big grounds. The experience of playing quite a bit of cricket in India and in the IPL should stand us in good stead in the final , " Southee said , explaining his point . The Eden Park , where New Zealand notched up two of their best wins of the tournament against Australia and South Africa , has extremely short straight boundaries. But Southee argued that the New Zealand team has done well on bigger grounds as well. " In small grounds , the crowd sometimes gets on top of you and the team knows how to handle that , " Southee said , obviously referring to Eden Park. " And then we have grounds like the Hagley Park in Christchurch which are reasonably big , " the paceman said. Dhoni had spoken about how reverse swing comes into play and the three Australian left-arm pacers ' ability to make the most of the conditions. New Zealand , on the other hand , have two brilliant new ball bowlers in Southee and Trent Boult , but the game gets a little tricky for them when the ball gets a little old . " It 's true that many of the guys have n't played at MCG. But we know how to adapt to conditions and give our best whatever wicket is thrown at us. We have had the best times our lives over the last two months and we are ready to ensure that it continues , " Southee gave the impression that this Kiwi lot wo n't be intimidated into submission at MCG . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
