World Cup 2015 : Hadlee rates Aussies favourites against Black Caps The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 25 , 2015 , 01.49PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Legendary New Zealand paceman Richard Hadlee believes Australia have a slight advantage heading into Saturday 's World Cup showdown between the co-hosts because of their pack of power-hitters . This weekend 's clash in Auckland , which some believe could be a dress rehearsal for the March 29 final , pits four-time World Cup champions Australia against an in-form New Zealand and should decide who takes pole position in Pool A . Hadlee , who still holds the record for most Test wickets by a New Zealand bowler with 431 , believes Australia 's power hitters can take advantage of the exceptionally short straight boundaries at both ends of Eden Park . " They 've got probably six power hitters in their side and with the short boundaries , it could be the contest of the power hitters - the team that can hit more sixes and fours , " Hadlee , 63 , told reporters on Wednesday . " I think Australia are favourites , but the way New Zealand are playing , we will given them a good run and we are good enough to get across the line , " added the former all-rounder , who retired in 1990 . Saturday 's match promises a fascinating duel between the Australian pair of Aaron Finch and David Warner and in-form New Zealand pacemen Tim Southee and Trent Boult . Southee recorded New Zealand 's best one-day figures of seven for 33 in his team 's eight-wicket win over England in Wellington on Friday . New Zealand can also call upon skipper Brendon McCullum , who smashed the World Cup 's fastest fifty , off just 18 balls , en-route to a 25-ball 77 against England , as well as hard-hitting all-rounder Corey Anderson . " In Southee and Boult , New Zealand have their best-ever new-ball combination , " said Hadlee , New Zealand 's spearhead for much of his career . Hadlee added : " McCullum is also at his dashing best. The way he has captained the side has been inspirational . " The way he fields and leads his side in the field , and his batting ability as well -- if he can put all three things together , the other players will follow that. " Besides the top position in the pool , both teams will also be vying for the Chappell-Hadlee one-day trophy , named after the great Australian and New Zealand cricket families . And Hadlee said he wanted to see the trophy , held by Australia since 2011 , regained by New Zealand . " We want it back. Hopefully on Saturday , it might just lift the ante a little bit. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
