World Cup 2015 : Have worked hard on fitness , Clarke says The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 28 , 2015 , 09.40AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Michael Clarke feared three months ago that he might not play international cricket ever again after suffering a hamstring injury against India in the Adelaide Test. But he fought on bravely and is now finally ready to take the field. It would have happened in Brisbane against Bangladesh , but the game was washed out . Clarke 's fitness is always under scrutiny and it was n't any different when the skipper met journalists ahead of the key clash against New Zealand. " I think everybody is sick of talking and rooting about my injury. But I have worked exceptionally hard and it feels really good to be able to take the field again , " Clarke said . He has been going through the grind for the last few days. The skipper , after completing his batting sessions , even bowled a bit , something that he has n't done in a while. Elaborating on his recuperation , Clarke said : " I did not play against England to allow myself that extra week to prepare and to get myself 100 per cent right against Bangladesh. My aim was to ensure that I was able to play at a 100 percent , that I did not get restricted while batting , bowling or fielding. " Clarke has had his share of injuries over the years and knows that the next one might not be too far away . But the Aussie skipper does n't want to get bogged down by this thought. Rather , the confidence that he has gained fighting back from the hamstring injury , stands him in good stead as he takes his country to their most difficult match of the tournament . " I think the confidence I have in my mind and my body at the moment is because of the work I 've put in over the last nine weeks. Right now I 'm as fit and healthy as I 've been in the last five years. The strength that I have regained in my back and hamstrings should hold me in good stead moving forward , " he said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
