World Cup 2015 : Hayden gets nasty 'bouncer ' at WACA The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Mar 5 , 2015 , 12.15PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 PRTH : Mathew Hayden may have faced many fast bowlers during his career and ducked under their bouncers. But this one he just could not avoid. The former Aussie opener , who has a stupendous innings of 380 to his name in a Test match at WACA , was chastened by security personnel when he was taking his dinner plate outside the dining hall. The security officer told him to have his food inside the hall and a red-faced Hayden had no option but to make a hasty retreat. Hayden finished his meal in a hurry and went back to the commentators ' box. When the security officer was asked if he knew who the gentlemen was , he said , " Yes , a former Aussie cricketer. But I do n't care , as the rules are same for everybody. " It 's difficult to imagine something like this happening in India . Afghans come calling There were a few Afghans among the spectators to watch their team take on the mighty Australian team. Some were from Perth while a few had come from the suburbs. They said that though they did not understand cricket much , they were here to support their team. " I have never seen the Afghan team play on an international stage. It made me proud to hear our national anthem and our flags flying. I hope more and more Afghan teams are able to play at the international level. At least the country will be remembered for the right reasons , " said Hammeda while watching the team being walloped by the Aussies . Snick-o-meter fails again When Afghanistan skipper Mohammed Nabi asked for a review of the umpire 's decision after he was declared caught off Glenn Maxwell , the snick-o-meter did not record any edge. But visually , one could easily make out that the ball had gone off his glove and changed its trajectory. Commentator Sanjay Manjrekar , who was in the media box at that time , reminded everyone that the snick-o-meter had failed once again. However , the third umpire upheld the decision after viewing the slow-mo . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
