World Cup 2015 : Hesson plays down Australia-New Zealand hype The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 25 , 2015 , 10.57AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : New Zealand coach Mike Hesson on Wednesday played down the hype surrounding the explosive ICC World Cup 2015 showdown between the co-hosts , saying it will be treated as just another round-robin encounter . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 But it will be easier said than done for both teams as come Saturday the intensity on and off the field will be high at a packed-out Eden Park crammed to its 40,000 capacity . New Zealand are perched at the top of Pool A with three wins from as many games while Australia have one win in two matches , with their second against Bangladesh abandoned due to rain in Brisbane last weekend . The team which wins Saturday 's game will be in pole position to finish on top of the group and face a relatively easier opponent in the quarter-finals , a prospect which adds another twist to Saturday 's tussle . But Hesson does n't buy into the hype. " Just another one of the round robin games and obviously it 's going to be a good one , " said Hesson after a Black Caps training session held under the warm Auckland sun . " We know it 's going to be a great contest , we have n't played Australia a lot in recent times but it 's an important game for us and important for the group so we will treat it as the other ones. " Hesson , however , admitted it will be a pressure occasion. " The pressure is playing a side ranked No 1 and who have won four World Cups. They 're a good side. There 's two good sides playing pretty well at the moment so I do n't think ( favouritism ) really adds a lot to it. " Hesson refused to accept the Australia game will be first " real " test for Black Caps . " We probably do n't look at it quite that way. Sri Lanka was a huge test for us , the England game as well , " said Hesson of the first two games his team played in the World Cup . Australia and New Zealand have not met in a completed one-day international since their 2011 World Cup game in Nagpur , which the Australians won by seven wickets. Their Champions Trophy match in Edgbaston in 2013 was rained off as a no-result . Hesson said a three-day break this week has helped keep his players fresh . " It was nice to have that break and the intensity is there , " said Hesson , who played down the hype over Australia 's pacemen . " We face ( New Zealand quick ) Adam Milne every day. He bowls at 150 km/h and we cope with that okay . " Every side we play has got some different challenges. Australia have got guys who bowl with good gas. So do we. " Hesson , in charge since July 2012 , emphasised it will be important to put their trans-Tasman rivals under pressure through skills and not words . " If you 're able to put anyone under pressure through your skills then hopefully you 're trying to get them to make poor decisions. " Hesson said Australia have talented players , including opener David Warner , who cranked up the mind games before the match by claiming that he was looking forward to any verbal abuse the Kiwi fans may choose to throw his way . " He 's obviously a decent player , " Hesson said of Warner. " They 've got plenty of others who are decent players as well so we just prepare ourselves as best we can. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
