Virat Kohli Signs Off Sensational 2014 , Says " Happy New Year " Virat Kohli Signs Off Sensational 2014 , Says " Happy New Year " Virat Kohli says goodbye to 2014 as the third highest run scorer in ODIs and three sensational Test hundreds in Australia . Last updated on Wednesday , 31 December , 2014 21 : 35 IST Total Shares Virat Kohli celebrates after scoring a century against Australia in the 3rd Test . © AFP Virat Kohli has been India 's biggest success story in 2014. When the team itself suffered several lows , including humiliating Test defeats in New Zealand , England and Australia besides failing to impress in the Asia Cup. But Kohli has been like a breath of fresh air for Indian fans , scoring and sledging heavily. At the end of an immensely successful year , at least personally , Kohli took to Twitter to wish his fans and friends Happy New Year. ( Kohli Overcomes Bouncer to Score Ton ) Wish you all a very happy new year : ) — Virat Kohli ( @ imVkohli ) December 31 , 2014 Kohli slammed four hundreds in 2014 and was the third highest scorer with 1054 runs from 21 games. He had a poor Test and ODI series in England but bounced back against Australia , hammering three hundreds in as many Tests to highlight his wild talent. And when Mahendra Singh Dhoni announced his retirement from the five-day format , the brash and aggressive Kohli was the obvious choice to lead India at the iconic Sydney Cricket Ground for the fourth and final match of the series vs Australia. ( Kohli Slams Twin Hundreds ) Kohli has of course proven credentials as captain - he led India to 5-0 whitewashes over Zimbabwe and Sri Lanka and has constantly stressed on the need to be ruthless. The team responded well under him and even came close to a rare Test win Down Under when led by Kohli , the tourists almost chased down 364 at the Adelaide Oval. The world had started to take notice of Kohli the leader. ( Kohli Wants India to be Ruthless ) Little wonder then that he feels content and happy with a fantastic year behind him. However , the next year will be laden with stiff challenges. For starters , he will be keenly watched as he leads Team India out on the SCG. Kohli 's form in the World Cup will be crucial too - without Sachin Tendulkar , Yuvraj Singh and Virender Sehwag , the Delhi dasher will be expected to lead the batting group , along with Dhoni and Suresh Raina . What does 2015 have in store for Kohli ? More runs ? More sledging ? More accolades ? Time will tell . Story first published on : Wednesday , 31 December 2014 20 : 18 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
