World Cup 2015 : Hiding from Sachin Tendulkar made Tim Southee stronger The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 21 , 2015 , 09.29AM IST Tim Southee holds his man of the match trophy after taking seven wickets in New Zealand 's eight wicket win over England. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : It was Tim Southee 's day in Wellington as he ripped apart England to record the third best bowling figures in the World Cup . One wonders whether the Kiwi paceman still remembers what happened to him six years ago in the same city . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Southee 's career could have been over in 2009 when Sachin Tendulkar went after his bowling at the now demolished Lancaster Park here. Tendulkar scored 163 off 113 balls and Southee gave away 105 off his 10 , which was the second-worst bowling figures in ODIs then. Southee was consequently dropped from the New Zealand team and soon after that the Kiwi was in Chennai playing the Buchi Babu tournament for New Zealand 'A' . He was asked then by TOI about the Tendulkar massacre which had thrown him out of the team and Southee had said : " It 's not all over for me. Yeah , of course , it was a very bad day. Sachin went mad and it 's always tough for any bowler to restrict a player of his stature. It was slightly difficult for me to come out of it but slowly I have forgotten everything and I 'm confident of regaining my place in the national side. " And how well he has done that ! He kept performing for Northern Districts , won back his place in the New Zealand Test and ODI teams and now has the best World Cup figures for a Black Cap . Chris Harris , one of New Zealand 's leading allrouners in ODIs , remembers how the Tendulkar carnage had taken a toll on Southee . " For a young boy finding his feet in international cricket , it was really hard. I was n't playing but I remember Sachin 's assault. But it happens to the best of bowlers in the world and it was great to see the way Tim fought back , " Harris told TOI . Southee 's biggest assets were his swing and pace and he worked hard under Grant Bradburn , who was the Northern Districts coach at that time and is now in charge of the Scotland team. " Bradburn worked well with Southee , kept his morale high and he kept on improving over the years , " Harris said . He consequently formed a combination with left-arm paceman Trent Boult , and even though this pair is under-rated , the fact is that the Southee-Boult combination is one of the most lethal bowling attacks in world cricket at the moment. They did it against Scotland in the open ing game too , taking two each from two ends to make it 12-4 in no time . Boult had a word of praise for Southee that day and the Northern Districts man returned the compliment on Friday . " We have bowled well as a group over a period of time now. And I 'm sure there will be another time where we both will bowl just as well or someone else will bowl better. It 's a fun game of cricket and I am enjoying the way we have operated in a group , " Southee said , soaking in the moment of glory with his teammates . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
