World Cup 2015 : Holder coy over Gayle fitness for Black Caps clash The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 20 , 2015 , 10.45AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 WELLINGTON : West Indies captain Jason Holder remained coy on whether injured star batsman Chris Gayle will play in Saturday 's World Cup quarterfinal against undefeated New Zealand . Gayle trained for the first time this week on Friday morning , batting in the nets two days after receiving an injection in his lower back . The injury forced him out of the West Indies ' six-wicket win over the United Arab Emirates on Sunday , when they squeezed into the final eight despite their erratic form in pool games . Holder said Gayle would face a late fitness test for Saturday 's final eight clash in Wellington , the winner of which will face a rampant South Africa in the semifinals . " He 's had an injection and a scan. The scan did n't show anything major , so we 'll just see how he pulls up today and make a decision tomorrow morning , " the skipper said . Gayle , 35 , scored the only double century in World Cup history with 215 against Zimbabwe in Canberra and is seen as crucial to the West Indies ' chances of progressing into the last four . But Holder insisted his team could win even without Gayle , pointing to the impressive 55 scored by Johnson Charles when he stepped in against the UAE . " Obviously , ( Gayle ) has been a very good player for us over the years but we 've shown we 've got people to fit the bill , " he said . " Johnson came in the last game and got a half-century and looked the part. So we 've got people to fill his boots but obviously having Chris there is a plus for us. " Holder acknowledged playing the undefeated New Zealanders in front of their home fans was a different prospect to facing the UAE , saying it was time to " go big or go home " . With the West Indies relishing their underdog status , Holder said he was looking for an aggressive but disciplined performance against Brendon McCullum 's men . " People pretty much wrote us off at the beginning of the tournament. " They did n't expect us to get to the quarterfinal stage and now we 're here , " he said . " We 're just going out all guns blazing tomorrow and giving it our all . " New Zealand can be beaten. We beat them in the last series when we played them and no doubt we will be looking to beat them tomorrow. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
