World Cup 2015 : Hope India remember winless streak against us , says Maxwell The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 21 , 2015 , 02.21PM IST Glenn Maxwell did praise the Indian side for its consistency that helped it reach the last four stage. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Dashing Australian batsman Glenn Maxwell on Saturday said the Indian team should remember that it has n't won a single game against his side this summer and the hosts intend to keep it that way in Thursday 's ICC Cricket World Cup semifinal against the defending champions . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Asked how difficult will it be for Australia to stop the unbeaten Indian juggernaut , Maxwell replied , " I think we targeted them pretty well this summer. They have n't won a game against us all through the summer. Hopefully that is pretty clear in their memories. " " We can make the most of that ( all win record ) . We 've been dominant all summer in the ODI format. We want to continue that. " But Maxwell did praise the Indian side for its consistency that helped it reach the last four stage . " India are a very good side. They would n't be here in the semifinals if they were n't a good side. We have to bring our A game when we play them this week , " the IPL star said with a note of caution . Although the media interaction at the Sydney airport " felt like IPL " to Maxwell with only three Aussie reporters in the mix , he did n't feel that playing against Ashwin or Jadeja in the IPL would matter much as his role in this national team set-up is different . " The IPL is a lot different to the World Cup. It is different pressure and different situation. I bat at No 6 ( for Australia ) and there are still five guys ahead of me , who are going to be batting first. Hopefully , they can make the most of the conditions. My job is to finish it off. " When someone asked if he reckons the contest to be 50-50 , Maxwell had a tongue-in-cheek counter query , " What are the bookmakers saying ? " Many past Aussie greats term the India versus Australia rivalry as the greatest in international cricket currently but for the maverick Maxwell , Ashes is still sacrosanct . " There are a lot of big rivalries in international cricket. Every team that we play against , there is like some sort of rivalry or history attached. For Australia , the Ashes , is still probably our biggest and oldest rivalry. " Virat Kohli has tormented Australia but Maxwell believes that there wo n't be separate but a general gameplan for India which has been the case all summer . Australia will be wary of Virat Kohli who scored prolifically against them during the four-Test series before the WC. ( AP Photo ) " We have n't had a team meet yet , but it will be pretty similar to the summer. We did pretty well during the summer against them. I am sure we will go ahead with similar plans and we will have a few tricks up our sleeve , " he answered with a smile . Maxwell could n't stop raving about Australia 's win on Friday as he felt it was a fantastic team effort . " It was an incredible win. The boys played outstanding cricket. To win it as comfortably as we did in the end , it gives us great confidence for the next game. " But was it as comfortable as it seemed , Maxwell answered , " It was a little bit uncomfortable at times. But I think when you look at the overall result with six wickets in hand and 90-odd balls left , it is a very comfortable win. We controlled the momentum of the game whole way through. There was an unbelievable spell from Wahab Riaz. Full credit to him as that was pretty incredible. " But Maxwell lauded all-rounder Shane Watson for the manner in which he tackled that hostile spell from Riaz . " Wahab is as good a bowler as you will face and he ( Watson ) got us through that tough period and made sure he set the platform for us to finish in the end. " For Maxwell , it was Watson 's experience as well as his calmness that also helped him during their 68-run stand . " I think that sort of experience showed out there and that is what we needed. Just to be cool and have a calm head. He ( Watson ) has been out there and done that. He was just outstanding. Just to have him at the other end , especially when I was batting , it was a pleasure to watch. " Watson was fined 15 percent of his match fees for his altercation with Riaz but Maxwell felt that the all-rounder was not too bothered . " We came to know about it after getting off the plane. I guess he was too excited after winning the game yesterday to think about it. " Maxwell 's flat-batted hits have been a rage for some time and he believes it took a lot of practice . " I have practiced them. You spend most of your net sessions facing Mitchell Johnson , Mitchell Starc , Pat Cummins and Josh Hazlewood. So you have to find ways of avoiding them or even try to hit them as a matter of fact. " The Kings XI Punjab batsman is hopeful that the SCG strip will have a fair amount of grass for pace and bounce . " Hopefully we get a fast one. It has been a pretty good wicket this year and hopefully there is a bit of grass there as well. " The cricketer also defended his team 's scratchy batting performances during the tournament stating that only once did they get all-out this season ( versus New Zealand ) . " We are still making big totals and I think we have only been bowled out once in this tournament. I do n't think it is too much of a worry. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
