World Cup 2015 : How all little things are falling into place for India The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 24 , 2015 , 08.34AM IST The most noticeable feature of the two matches was the quality of India 's fielding. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : The Indian team has often shown signs of a split personality , struggling in inconsequential events and performing like champions on the one stage that matters . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 We saw this trait during the last World Cup in India and the Champions Trophy too , and there are already signs that we are in for a repeat show . It 's a moot point if the massive support the Men in Blue received in Adelaide and Melbourne have led to this amazing turnaround . The overwhelming victories over Pakistan and South Africa have even prompted team director Ravi Shastri to even declare war : " Underestimate this Indian team at your own peril. We have the batting , and with this bowling attack , we are ready to test any team. " Brave words for sure but it 's now quite clear that the team has the confidence and momentum to go long in the tournament. Captain MS Dhoni summed it up nicely , pointing out that if the team had done well in the Tri-series but lost the first two World Cup matches , it would have hurt them badly . " It was smart to use the Tri-series as a laboratory to try out different combinations and let players get acclimatized to the conditions before the World Cup , " he said . " We were also experimenting with batting combinations as Virat Kohli was being tried at No. 4 and players like Ambati Rayudu were given a chance to stake their claim. Ajinkya Rahane was used as a floater in the lineup. At that time , it may have looked depressing from the outside but we were always confident and focused on our preparations , " Dhoni said after India trounced South Africa at the MCG on Sunday night. Some may say that luck was with India. True , winning the toss in the high-octane games gave the team the advantage of batting when the pitch was at its best. It helped them set formidable targets. With runs and fans behind them , the bowlers raised their game several notches . The trio of Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav and Mohit Sharma , who were carted around by Australian and English batsmen in the Tri-series , kept things tight upfront. The role of the spinners Ravindra Jadeja and Ravichandran Ashwin too was crucial in tying down the batsmen in the middle overs . The most noticeable feature of the two matches was the quality of India 's fielding. " I am happy that we have been able to raise the standard of our fielding. What has been encouraging is the fielding effort of the fast bowlers. The run-outs effected by Mohit and Yadav turned the match our way , " Dhoni said . But these are still early days for India. Having started with a bang , they will have to be careful not to drop their guard , especially as three of their remaining four matches are against lesser teams. They ca n't afford to lose the intensity. India take on the UAE on February 28 , and the highly unpredictable West Indies on March 6 , both in Perth . They then travel to New Zealand to play the last two group matches - against Ireland on March 10 and Zimbabwe on March 14. If they are able to avoid co-hosts Australia and New Zealand in the quarterfinals , they will move to Sydney or Melbourne , depending on where they finish in the group . THE BREAK HELPED India may have lost the Test series but they put up a good fight ; thereafter they probably just switched off. The break between the Tri-series and the Cup helped them rejuvenate. " The World Cup was like a new tournament and not an extension of the long tour , " Dhoni said about the plan to keep the players from getting fatigued and home-sick . They approached the big games against Pakistan and South Africa with an intensity and sharpness that surprised many. The team management even asked for grounds where they could use the centre wicket to simulate match-like conditions , choosing St Peter 's College in Adelaide and the Oval Junction in Melbourne for their training sessions . HOW INDIA TURNED IT AROUND India 's stellar show in the World Cup against Pakistan and South Africa has taken many by surprise as it has come immediately after a poor performance in the tri-series in Australia. TOI lists the reasons for this change in fortune REST & REBOOT : After a strenuous and sapping four-Test series Down Under , India decided to go half-throttle in the tri-series that preceded the World Cup. The team clearly looked less than 100 % committed which even the director of cricket Ravi Shastri has admitted to. After failing to reach the final , the team completely switched off from cricket for a week , with skipper MS Dhoni heading off to a boot camp with some of his pacers. As a result , the team looks refreshed and raring to go. One prime example is Shikhar Dhawan who has batted like a dream in the WC games after having spent quality time with his family in Melbourne . MOHIT 'S ENTRY , ISHANT 'S EXIT : Ishant Sharma 's knee injury has proved to be a blessing in disguise , at least so far. Mohit Sharma , who many felt should have been part of the squad in the first place , got in as a replacement and has n't disappointed so far. What Mohit lacks in pace he makes up with his accuracy. His fielding , as he displayed in the last match against South Africa , have been a bonus . KOHLI AT NO. 3 SPOT : In the lead up to the World Cup , Virat Kohli was shunted up and down the order. The best batsman in the side should ideally come in at the No. 3 slot and India finally decided to give that spot to Kohli. He has deftly managed to deal with the two new balls after Rohit Sharma 's early dismissals. He also has the time to build his innings and press on the accelerator when needed. Kohli is now the rock around which the rest of the batting revolves and the No. 3 spot suits that to a T . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
