World Cup 2015 : Hussey , Kirsten , Donald plotting India 's downfall The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 18 , 2015 , 01.52PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : South Africa 's record against India in the World Cup has been an enviable 3-0 , having convincingly won their matches in three editions ( '92 , '99 and 2011 ) , but the Proteas are leaving no stone unturned to make it 4-0 when the two teams square off at the MCG on Sunday . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 To combat the defending champions , the South African team management has brought in experience worth 26,845 runs and 602 wickets at the international level . The runs are combined of what Messrs Gary Kirsten and Mike Hussey have scored at the international level across formats , while the wickets are Allan Donald 's collection during his 12 years in international cricket . The trio was seen keeping a hawk eye on the proceedings during South African team 's training session at the St Kilda 's Oval Junction ground . In fact , Hussey , who would again be playing in the eighth edition of IPL for Chennai Super Kings , was keeping a close eye on the batsmen , especially the likes of JP Duminy and Quinton de Kock as they were playing the spinners at the nets . A couple of left-arm spinners were seen bowling as Duminy and De Kock , along with Hashim Amla when they were batting in the nets . One of the net bowlers of Indian origin was asked if there was any specific instruction from the coaches , he smiled and said , " I have been told to try and bowl exactly what Ravindra Jadeja bowls " . Hussey was later seen having a long chat with Duminy as he was doing some shadows to show him a few particular shots of spinners . Hussey has been roped in as a consultant , specifically for the World Cup but he wo n't be travelling with AB de Villiers and Co after the India match . " It 's been a nice experience so far. But I wo n't be travelling with the team after this match. I am with them for this match , " Hussey told PTI . India 's best ever national coach , Kirsten was overseeing the proceedings and also giving his customary throwdowns , while Donald was keeping an eye on the bowlers with a specific drill in mind . Kirsten , in fact , arrived late on Tuesday after having attended the IPL auctions in Bangalore for Delhi Daredevils , a day before . Three different sets of cones were placed on three different lengths for the South African pacers. While Morne Morkel was told to hit the short of length area , Wayne Parnell was instructed to bowl a bit on the fuller side. Morkel was occasionally also instructed to bowl at yorker length just at the base of the stumps . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
