World Cup 2015 : Impact players key to India 's success , says Oram The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 6 , 2015 , 09.03AM IST " There are so many guys in the Indian team who can run away with games. Impact players are the key to success of a team and India has that , " Jacob Oram said. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Jacob Oram was one of MS Dhoni 's go-to men in the first three years of IPL due to his allround skills. The Kiwi all-rounder faded from the international scene due to injuries , but he is currently working with talented New Zealand paceman Adam Milne . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " New Zealand Cricket has appointed me to work on Milne 's game. He is a strappy lad , a hard-working and very fit guy . He is working up some very good pace , " Oram told TOI during an interview . Milne is already being tipped as the next Shane Bond but Oram does n't want to go so far right away . " He has the talent , but still needs to do more on the international circuit before we can call him the next Bond. " The former all-rounder is particularly impressed with the performance of the Kiwis in this tournament so far. " They are playing bold cricket , that 's what is impressing me. Yes , their game against Australia got a little too tight but at the end of the day the Kiwis beat the Aussies at Eden Park , " Oram said . Even as he terms New Zealand as one of his favourites , Oram ca n't quite discount India. " It 's the number of match-winners that they have. There are so many guys in the Indian team who can run away with games. Impact players are the key to success of a team and India has that , " Oram said . He was himself one of the top all-rounders in the world in his time and is quite impressed with what is on offer in the World Cup . " It 's very difficult to choose between the likes of Mitchell Marsh , Angelo Matthews or your Ravindra Jadeja . Yes , Jadeja is a spin-bowling all-rounder but he is doing the job for his team. The Indian team needs a player like him and he is doing a good job. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
