World Cup 2015 : In 7 days , we could be world champions , says Miller The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 23 , 2015 , 11.47AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : The Kings XI Punjab player is a huge hit in IPL , but in the World Cup , he has n't yet come into his own. The team management , though , has faith in him and he is an integral part of their middle-order. The World Cup semifinal will be a great stage for David Miller to explode and the left-hander gave the impression that he is preparing well for the occasion . " It means everything to me. It 's my first World Cup and it 's a dream come true to play a semifinal. The guys have worked really hard with all their highs and lows and it comes down to an occasion like this. A lot of people dream of a moment like this and we have the opportunity to actually be there , " Miller said after an intense practice session on Sunday . The South Africans , since the quarterfinal , are following a routine of hard training two days ahead of the match , followed by a break on match eve. It 's likely to be the same before the semifinal with AB de Villiers & Co. staying indoors and having one-on-one sessions with explorer and motivational speaker Mike Horn . The sessions seem to be working wonders for the South African team with Miller sounding extremely confident. " In seven days we could be world champions. We 're feeling pretty fresh and playing good cricket and the guys are coming good at the right time , " Miller gave the impression that they have taken a lot of confidence from their first win in the knockouts of the World Cup . The chokers ' tag refrain , too , came up and Miller played it with a straight bat. " This team has a lot of fresh guys who have n't been to World Cups before. So I think we do n't have a lot of baggage behind us , " Miller said . There 's another worry for South Africa in this semifinal and that 's the sudden emergence of Martin Guptill in their rival camp. He has smashed two back-to-back centuries , including a record breaking double hundred on Saturday. The South Africans , obviously , will spend some time discussing Guptill , but Miller tried to play it down. " Has anything happened ? " he said , but later added : " I did n't watch a lot of the knock but heard he did well. Obviously a double ton is a phenomenal effort. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
