World Cup 2015 : India are no pushovers , says Finch The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 24 , 2015 , 12.55PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Australia opener Aaron Finch expects India will be formidable rivals in Thursday 's World Cup semifinal in Sydney despite being well-beaten by the hosts ahead of the tournament . India lost the four-Test series 2-0 and failed to make the final of the tri-series that also featured England , but Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's men have since made a remarkable comeback with seven straight World Cup wins . Finch said Australia were unlikely to have a psychological edge at the Sydney Cricket ground due to their recent results against India . " I do n't think so , guys move on pretty quick from that kind of stuff , " Finch said on Tuesday . " We played some really good cricket against India earlier in the summer. Now they have played beautifully throughout this World Cup. Undefeated so far , the team has grown in confidence . " But when you look down our team , we match up quite well. " Finch , who is struggling for runs despite scoring a century in the first match against England , said the semi-final will be the " biggest game " he will have played in . " It 's going to be huge. It 's obviously going to be my biggest game. I ca n't put it any other way , " the 28-year-old Victorian said . " It 's a huge opportunity to be able to show off our skills as a team. I think we 've played some great cricket over the last two years . " There 's no reason why we are not going to go into this game confident. I think we 've got every right to be. " Finch was unsure if the SCG wicket will be as spin-friendly as expected and give India the early advantage . " I have not had too much of a look at it , " he said. " The last time we played here it looked like the wicket would spin quite a bit but it did not. It played really true . " It 's hard to tell since there are still two days out from the game. The wicket can change quite a bit over here in two days. " The hard-hitting opening batsman is likely to retain his place in the side despite a lean trot since making 135 against England . In Australia 's subsequent World Cup fixtures , Finch scored 14 , 4 , 24 , 20 and 2 after the match against Bangladesh was washed out without a ball being bowled in Brisbane . Finch said he had a net session with close friend and former Victoria team-mate Andrew McDonald and spoken to Australian batting coach Michael Di Venuto in a bid to get back to his best form . " I 'm feeling good and hitting the ball nicely , that 's all I can ask , " he said. " But I am not someone who over-analyses it a hell of a lot . " I really trust McDonald he 's one of my best mates. To touch base with him was something I really needed . " I 've spoken to 'Diva ' ( Di Venuto ) quite a lot and 'Boof ' ( Australia coach Darren Lehmann ) . There is nothing that I 'm concerned about. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
