World Cup 2015 : India brace for pace against South Africa The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 22 , 2015 , 11.15AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Nothing gets bigger than an India-Pakistan game , given the intensity , the passion and the national pride involved. However , having cleared that test with some ease , India now go into another big-ticket game - against South Africa on Sunday. MS Dhoni 's men will get overwhelming support at the 1,00,000-capacity Melbourne Cricket Ground but the question on every fan 's lips is : Can it inspire India to overcome a strong and disciplined team like South Africa ? Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The Proteas have come into the World Cup on the back of some stupendous batting feats and have a reputation of scoring quick and big. They have a set of exciting batsmen who can score at a rapid pace. It can be a nightmarish situation for any team if all their batsmen fire together. Backed by a strong bowling unit , they are the team to beat in this group . India thus have their job cut out. After their impressive win over Pakistan last Sunday , they have the momentum and confidence to pose a serious challenge to a team rated as one of the favourites here. The good thing about this game is that it will not have too much of a bearing on India 's chances to qualify for the quarterfinals. But in the larger context , a win will give them the confidence and self-belief going ahead. The Indians will also be probably more relaxed than they were last Sunday and one would expect them to flow freely. Of course , a packed stadium can lead to a few jangled nerves in the dressing room . India have been preparing for the South Africans in right earnest. They simulated match conditions during their practice sessions in order to tackle the tall fast bowlers who can generate disconcerting bounce. South African captain AB de Villiers does not expect the wicket here to be as fast and bouncy as it used to be in the past but countering the initial thrust of the bowlers will be crucial for the Indians . The Indian batting outfit will be confident after touching the 300-mark against Pakistan , and Virat Kohli returning to form with a stupendous century. But more heartening were the performances of Shikhar Dhawan and Suresh Raina , who gave good support to anchorman Kohli. What would worry them is their tendency to lose wickets in a heap while trying to pile on runs at the death . India bowled quite well as a unit in Adelaide , and the key to restricting the South African batsmen will be in the hands of two spinners Ravichandran Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja. Of course , it will be imperative for the new ball bowlers to not let South Africa to run away with a good start. The fielders too will have to raise the bar many notches as India will require much greater effort and intensity on Sunday to come up trumps . Indian vice-captain Virat Kohli , who briefed the media on eve of the match , realises the importance of doing well against the Proteas. " From the point of view of going ahead in the tournament , a good performance in this match will give us immense self-belief - that we can beat big sides in the knockout stage. ( This ) will play a big factor in the game. South Africa , as we all know , are one of the top sides in the world. They have a good balance in batting and bowling , and their fielding always sets standards in international cricket. " South African captain AB de Villiers feels India 's win over Pakistan does not change things much in the context of Sunday 's game. " We know India are still the world champions. We know they are an incredible cricket team , so the respect factor is definitely there. Whether they 've won or lost ( against Pakistan last Sunday ) ... it does not change our planning and preparation going into this game. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
