World Cup 2015 : India can take Bangladesh lightly at their own peril in quarters , says Gavaskar The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 13 , 2015 , 08.38PM IST Sunil Gavaskar says Bangladesh , with a bit of luck , can beat any side in the tournament and India can not afford to take them lightly. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Terming Bangladesh a dangerous side on current form , former captain Sunil Gavaskar on Friday warned Indian players to not take their eastern neighbours lightly when the two teams meet in the ICC World Cup 2015 knock-out stage at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on March 19 . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 India are certain to top Group B even before playing their final group league match against Zimbabwe here on Saturday and they will play Group A fourth-placed side Bangladesh in the quarterfinals in Melbourne . Gavaskar said Bangladesh , with a bit of luck , can beat any side in the tournament and India can take them lightly only at their own peril . " India have beaten Bangladesh on many occasions earlier and so the Indians may be confident that they can do the same this time also. But on current form , Bangladesh are a very dangerous side. Not only beating England , they ran very close to New Zealand today , " Gavaskar said , referring to the Kiwi 's three-wicket win over Bangladesh with seven balls to spare in Hamilton on Friday . " In the group league , if you lose one match , you can make a comeback in the next match. But in the knock-out stage , one bad day will send you back home. With a bit of luck , I think on current form Bangladesh are capable of beating any side. So , India will do very well not to take Bangladesh lightly , " he added . Talking about the strength of Bangladesh team , Gavaskar said , " They are a very good batting side. Mahmudullah has been in good form. Then there is Shakib , Mushfiqur Rahim and Sabbir Rahman . " Today against New Zealand , they did not have five regular bowlers due to injury. Despite that they put New Zealand in trouble. With five regular bowlers available , they will do even better , " the former India captain said in an interview . Gavaskar said he does not expect Indian captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni to make any changes in the team against Zimbabwe on Saturday , despite the side having already made it to the quarterfinals . " Dhoni himself has said that he will continue with the same winning team unless there is a need for a player or players to take rest. I do n't see that Dhoni will make any changes tomorrow against Zimbabwe , " said Gavaskar . He said with the not so big boundaries at the Eden Park , Saturday 's match may see many sixes . " They have changed the pitch which is now in North-South direction from the earlier East-West facing direction. The straight boundaries have become shorter through side boundaries have become longer. So , there is not much change and you can expect more sixes being hit and bowlers may struggle , " he said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
