World Cup 2015 : India have lot of match-winners in ODIs , says Ganguly The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 19 , 2015 , 09.21PM IST Former India captain Sourav Ganguly insisted that the defending champions have got a very good chance of going all the way in this edition of the World Cup. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The Indian batting line-up may seem to be heavily reliant on Virat Kohli , but former India captain Sourav Ganguly feels that the team has more than one player to depend on as far as one-day cricket is concerned . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " In one-day Internationals , there are a lot of match winners. Rohit Sharma is one , his 100 in Melbourne ( second ODI of the tri-series against Australia ) was remarkable , " said Ganguly . He also insisted that the defending champions have got a very good chance of going all the way in this edition of the World Cup . " Yeah , I do give them a chance. In one-day cricket , I always give India a chance and with the format , we just have to get to the quarterfinals and then three games...anybody 's game , " Ganguly told 'Headlines Today' . Stating that the key to India 's success will be to " remain fresh " , Ganguly said , " It 's been a long tour...four Tests in Australia where you 've been battered , you been hit hard. The bowlers have run in and bowled 500 runs in every Test match , 300 runs in second innings whenever Australia has batted . " So you can see it on Mohammad Shami and Umesh Yadav. When you see their body , you can make it from outside that they are tired. That 's why I said in one of my interviews that I hope India do n't qualify for the tri-series so that it gives them a break. I would rather wanted them to come back for 3-4 days...unpack and then go back and play the World Cup. " Asked about India 's death bowling , which has been a serious concern , the 42-year-old said : " To be honest , at the moment it is only one Mohammad Shami , who I think is a very good death bowler. I expect a lot from Umesh Yadav. I think he is an under achieved , he is lot better bowler than that . " The way Bhuvneshwar Kumar has bowled in one day matches and Tests , he is not the Bhuvneshwar Kumar in England or the way we have seen in other parts of the world. I do n't know whether he is still recovering from his injury . " So Shami , Umesh -- they all have to share the ball in death overs -- because you just ca n't depend on one bowler for death overs , " explained Ganguly . On whether he thought the wicket would take turn in Australia , Ganguly said it depended on conditions . " It may be at the end of the season , but wickets in World Cup would be prepared well , you wo n't get rank turners. Curators will prepare good pitches. There will be bounce , there will be carry. India will play West Indies in Perth , so different condition will have different bowlers and once you go to knockout stage , it depends on where you play and you decide , " he said . Ganguly said captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's job would be very important during the quadrennial extravaganza . " He has to marshal his team , in 2011 Dhoni had Sachin ( Tendulkar ) , ( Virender ) Sehwag , Yuvraj ( Singh ) , and they all were experienced players , match winners. This is young side , young team , they all are trying to find their feet. Only Kohli is stand out other than the captain in one-day cricket . " When your team is not playing well then you have to find a way to get your team going , I was fortunate as I had Sachin , ( Anil ) Kumble , ( Rahul ) Dravid , ( Javagal ) Srinath and the likes. Every captain goes through ups and downs and his role is very important , as in last two months Indian team has not done well. " Asked to pick his four semifinalists and Ganguly was prompt in his reply : " India , Australia , New Zealand and South Africa. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
