Suresh Raina and MS Dhoni celebrate their victory in a World Cup match. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : It was more than 20 years ago that , in theory and practice , elements of One-day batting changed decisively at the 1992 World Cup. The idea of scoring over-aggressively in the first 15 overs had emerged and batsmen - of the Mark Greatbatch philosophy - began pursuing new benchmarks . Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Two decades of toying with One-day rules have practically reversed the trend. Now , with the new batting powerplays in effect , number of players outside the 30-yard-circle reduced and the ball taking longer to lose shine , the idea of spacing a 50-over innings has seen an enormous change . Like the New Zealand of 1992 and the Sri Lanka of 1996 , India 's been among the trendsetters this time , and to good effect . Unlike the trend of two top-order batsmen taking the risk of going after the bowlers , the change has been in the form of one batsman trying to stay around right through the innings . " They 've had at least one top-order batsman batting deep in the innings , right till the end , " observed Aaron Finch , when asked about the One-day batting transition and India 's stability on most occasions . " It makes a huge difference , because when there 's one guy sticking around right till the end , there are never two ( completely ) new batsmen at the crease , " adds Finch . Not just India , but all leading sides like South Africa , Sri Lanka and Australia have pursued the trend . The most recent example of India 's strategy - or rather middle-order success - was seen in the quarterfinal against Bangladesh when Rohit Sharma batted deep to get to a match-winning 137. Whether it 's Rohit or Shikhar Dhawan , Virat Kohli or MS Dhoni , in most cases when things have gone India 's way , one of these batsmen has managed to stick around right till the end . " They played beautifully. They 've grown a lot in confidence. When we look at ourselves and them , it 's obvious they match up well , " says Finch . More than 60 % of India 's ODI success in recent years has been a result of middle-order success alone. And it 's not a surprise that it 's the batting order that 's walked away with accolades. There 's no rocket science to how a team is viewed in the light of success and defeat. Nothing seemed going for Dhoni & Co. until less than two months ago and now they seem to stand on the brink of another Cup win . The Aussies are convinced this Indian team , in present form , is the one to beat. When the going 's been good for India , in recent years , the results have been one-sided and while most of it has come in subcontinental conditions , the Aussies do n't see any reason why they ca n't replicate the success here . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
