World Cup 2015 : India know the conditions quite well , says Clarke The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 21 , 2015 , 12.49PM IST Michael Clarke conceded that playing India in a semifinal would be a challenge. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Captain Michael Clarke says India 's thorough knowledge of Australian conditions mean the tournament co-hosts will have to be at their best when the two teams face off in the Cricket World Cup semifinals in Sydney on March 26 . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Clarke , whose team defeated Pakistan by six wickets at the Adelaide on Friday to make the semis , conceded that playing India in a semifinal would be a challenge . " They are obviously playing a lot better than they were throughout the start of the ( Australian ) summer. I said leading into the World Cup that I thought India were going to be an extremely tough team to beat . " They are a very good team and because they have spent so much time in Australia , they know the conditions quite well. The game on Thursday is going to certainly be a challenge . " We definitely have to be at our best to beat them. We look forward to that challenge , " Clarke said . India have been on a roll winning seven straight matches , in a dramatic turnaround following their winless Test and ODI tour Down Under prior to the mega-event . " Thursday becomes our World Cup final. We look forward to it. " Pakistan skipper Misbah-ul-Haq has backed India to win the game due to lack of a " quality " spin option in the Australian line-up but Clarke thought otherwise ahead of the game at SCG , traditionally a spin-friendly wicket . " I do n't think a ball spun in our game against Sri Lanka. It will all depend on what type of wicket gets prepared. If there is a bit of grass on it , that will certainly help our fast bowlers . " If it does spin , we 've got spinning options in our squad , so I 'm sure the selectors will assess that once we get to the SCG and work out what they think is the best 11 , " he said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
