World Cup 2015 : India look to maintain winning momentum against Ireland The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 10 , 2015 , 09.01AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 HAMILTON : There 's a growing feeling in New Zealand these days that India should do everything possible to avoid travelling to the country again for the knock-outs. It 's about the smaller boundaries , the lack of assistance for spinners in the pitches and India 's poor record here that make the fans edgy at the prospect of the Men in Blue coming here and playing New Zealand in the semifinals . With New Zealand set to clinch top spot in their pool , India need to assure themselves the No. 1 spot in their group to ensure a stay in Australia for the knock-outs. But for that to happen , India have to win their last two league games - the first of which is against Ireland on Tuesday . The general feeling is that it should be a cakewalk for the Indians , but the Irish come here a desperate lot. Quietly , they have won three of the four games in the group and an upset on Tuesday will ensure a quarterfinal berth for them and knock out West Indies. " It 's great that these two points are up for grabs , but yes , India are the World Champions. Our best chance is to take early wickets and restrict India. It 's the first 10 overs that might decide which way the game is go ing , " William Porterfield , the Ireland captain said . There was an obvious hint in Porterfield 's statement that they might look to field first and re strict India to a manageable total. The weather forecast suggests " partly cloudy " which would mean there might be a little bit of assistance for the swing bowlers . But the Indians have done well against better attacks than Ireland in this tournament and the moving ball should n't be too much of a headache for the top-order. It 's more about guarding against complacency . There was no lack of intent in the Indian nets on Monday as they looked to acclimatize to the New Zealand conditions. " Ireland have played a few good games and they have a chance to qualify for the knockouts. It 's a good team and we have to play well to beat them , " Indian pacer Mohit Sharma said . Mohit will be one of the key ingredients of the Indian attack , but it 's to be seen whether Dhoni decides to rest his pace spearhead Mohammad Shami. The world has taken serious notice of Shami with Sir Richard Hadlee saying that he has been one of the shining lights of this World Cup , but the pacer is often plagued by injuries. Bhuvaneshwar Kumar got a long bowl in the nets on Monday and it could be interesting to see if the UP bowler gets to play on Tuesday to keep Shami fresh for knock-outs. However , there 's also a possibility that Dhoni would go for the kill with his best attack . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
