World Cup 2015 : Indian fans set the buzz trending on Facebook The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Mar 3 , 2015 , 06.30AM IST In India , 19 million people have had 169 million interactions about the Cricket World Cup. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 For cricket fans , the Cricket World Cup is a moment that comes only every four years , and this year millions of people are taking to Facebook to discuss the matches and connect with friends , players and teams . Globally , 36 million people have generated 341 million interactions between January 1 and February 28 . In India , 19 million people have had 169 million interactions about the Cricket World Cup . In Australia , 1.4 million people have had 5.4 million interactions about the Cricket World Cup . We also looked at the conversation by country to see where people are buzzing the most about cricket around the world . Unsurprisingly , Indians have made the most interactions about the Cricket World Cup. The trend justifies the poularity of cricket as a game in India. The huge turnout of the fans at the stadiums to support their country shows the immense popularity of the game and the Indian cricketers. Pakistan , despite a poor start to the tournament , have big fan base too. Even though the performances of their cricket team is not worthy enough to write anything about , the surge in the popularity of the game places Bangladesh at the third spot in the list. Co-host nation Australia comes fourth and despite the presence of big guns like South Africa , New Zealand and Sri Lanka , it is the United States of America that are at the fifth spot in most talked about countries . Top Countries ( by unique people ) : 1. India 2. Pakistan 3. Bangladesh 4. Australia 5. United States They may have been facing flak with their recent performances on the field , but that has not affected the popularity of the game in Bangladesh. Bangladesh started their World Cup campaign on a winning note by thrashing minows Afghanistan , their second game against Australia was washed out and they lost their next game against Sri Lanka , but when it comes to the number of new users , their popularity has grown the most , even outshining Asian giants like India , Pakistan and Sri Lanka. India are fifth in the list , does this show a fall in the popularity of the game as far as the young generation is concerned ? Top Countries ( by unique people as a percent of monthly actives ) : 1. Bangladesh 2. Pakistan 3. Afghanistan 4. Sri Lanka 5. India AB de Villiers , the man who has made the fastest ODI 50 , the fastest ODI 100 and the fastest ODI 150 , heads the list of the eleven most buzzed about players in the World Cup. The South African captain is ahead of Indian superstars Virat Kohli and Rohit Sharma and the man who hit the first double century in the World Cup - Chris Gayle. Indian captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni , who has been going through a rough patch with the bat of late , is at the fifth spot , ahead of Pakistan 's Shahid Afridi . The 11 most buzzed about players : 1. AB de Villiers 2. Virat Kohli 3. Rohit Sharma 4. Chris Gayle 5. MS Dhoni 6. Shahid Afridi 7. Sohail Khan 8. Shakib al Hasan 9. Younis Khan 10. Suresh Raina 11. Shikhar Dhawan Throughout the tournament , players , teams and public figures are using Facebook to update their fans , react to matches and more . Source : Facebook
