World Cup 2015 : Indians must be feeling at home , says Clarke The author has posted comments on this article Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : An Indian traveller can stay up to a maximum of three months in Australia on a tourist visa. The Indian cricket team has stayed long enough to expect citizenship . They flew in here around the third week of November last year for the Test series and by the time they are done with the second semifinal in Sydney on March 26 , they 'd be moving into their fifth month here. It 's been so long that Michael Clarke fears the Indians begun to feel at home . " They ( India ) seem to have worked out the conditions , " said Clarke after the win over Pakistan in the quarterfinal at Adelaide . Wherever the Indian team travels for the World Cup matches these days , the rumble begins early morning at the hotel they check-in and goes on till late in the night , only after the players have retired for the day. From eggs and bacon at breakfast to pavlovas and potato cakes for dinner , theatres and malls on off days and the best practice facilities at work , they 've got their lives sorted out ; just the way Clarke would want his teammates ' lives to be all the time . That 's bothering Clarke it seems. " They 've obviously been playing better cricket than they did when they first came here at the start of the summer , " he pointed out. Barring the loss to the Kiwis in their backyard , Pup 's team has feasted on the rest of the opponents here in the tournament so far. India are next and he 's not very happy about it. " The game on Thursday is certainly going to be a challenge. We 'll have to be at our best to beat them , " he says . The start of the summer , when India first arrived here , was a different chapter. Whichever side of the bed MS Dhoni 's boys woke up on , they 'd keep running into Australia. In a World Cup tournament consisting 14 teams , there 's been enough distraction for them to regroup and work their way around . " We always knew that leading into the World Cup , India would be a tough team to beat. They 've gotten accustomed to the conditions quite well , " Clarke adds . The Australian skipper sees this Indian team with a lot of strengths but weaknesses as well , something he and his teammates will begin working on in the run-up to the semifinal at the Sydney Ground in the next five days. " From the teams we 've played in the World Cup so far , India at this moment have a different set of strengths. But they have different weaknesses ( from the others ) too , " said Clarke . It 's obviously not India 's spin bowling or fielding he 's referring to but their ability to counter the short ball against quality pacers on a hard wicket with a tinge of grass , and with Johnson , Starc and Hazelwood coming at them. That 's what is going on in Clarke 's mind . The skipper says Dhoni deserves all the credit for the way he 's turned things around for his team. It 's not an easy task living out of a suitcase all this time as Team India has done since landing on this perennially jet-lag inducing destination . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
