World Cup 2015 : India seek UAE target practice The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 28 , 2015 , 08.24AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 PERTH : India were not keen on disturbing the winning combination even against minnows UAE but they have been forced to make a change for Saturday 's game . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Mohammed Shami , part of India 's impressive pace troika which also includes Mohit Sharma and Umesh Yadav , has a niggle in his left knee and the team management does not want to take a chance with him in this low-key game . The injury gives Bhuvneshwar Kumar an unexpected opportunity to make his first appearance in the World Cup. India , however , also have the option of playing Stuart Binny , who was impressive in the tri-series. The team management , as usual , did not name Shami 's replacement . India are thanking their stars that Shami 's injury has come against lowly UAE in the preliminary stage of the tournament. They are also banking on the bowler being fully fit for the March 6 game against the unpredictable West Indies . UAE have done well in their two matches against Zimbabwe and Ireland but it 's going to be difficult for them to challenge India 's might. India , however , will have to guard against complacency since this is an opportunity to bag some easy points and increase their net run rate. If India can finish on top of Group B , they can avoid the top two Group A teams in the quarterfinals . On this fastish WACA pitch , India 's batsmen will relish the opportunity to get some runs under their belt , especially someone like Rohit Sharma who has yet to get going in the World Cup . It is also an opportunity for Suresh Raina and skipper MS Dhoni to recover some form. India managed to get past the 300-run mark against Pakistan and SA but they are over-reliant on a few key batsmen . UAE , meanwhile , have only one home-grown player in skipper Mohammed Tauqir. The other players are from India , Pakistan or Sri Lanka and have taken up residence in the UAE . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
