World Cup 2015 : India 's form a warning signal to other teams , says RP Singh The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 1 , 2015 , 12.55PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : With India winning three matches in a row , pacer RP Singh believes the defending champions have found form at the right time , sending out a warning signal to other teams in the ongoing ODI cricket World Cup . Pool B table-toppers India humbled UAE to register their third straight win in the World Cup and virtually booked their quarterfinal spot . After a lacklustre showing in the Test series against Australia and the tri-series that followed , India look a totally different side and RP could not agree more . " India definitely looks like the team to beat in this World Cup so far and I am sure the other teams are watchful of this young Indian side , " RP , who is part of the commentary panel on Star Sports , said after India 's nine-wicket win over UAE in Perth . India 's clinical showing continued in their third match as the bowling , sans injured Mohammad Shami , proved quite a handful against an inexperienced UAE line-up and packed the minnows for 102 in 31.3 overs. RP was impressed with the efforts of the Indian seamers . " I am impressed by some of the swing bowling by the Indian seamers today. It was particularly heartening to see that the bowlers were able to take help from the pitch , " the left-arm Uttar Pradesh pacer , who has represented India in 14 Tests and 58 ODIs , said . Umesh Yadav , who started the wicket-taking , bagged two wickets from 6.3 overs and pace spearhead Bhuvneshwar Kumar got 1 from his 5. RP was impressed with the new-ball bowlers , who made their presence felt in Shami 's absence . " Umesh Yadav was fantastic today , he made full use of the pitch conditions and left UAE batsmen stunned. Bhuvneshwar Kumar who was under pressure replacing the in-form Shami also delivered a great performance to his credit , especially with his outswingers , " RP , who last represented India in 2011 against England , said . Off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin though was the pick of the Indian bowlers , bagging four wickets on a bouncy WACA pitch as left-arm spinner Ravindra Jadeja also chipped in with two scalps . Earlier , India had got past arch-rivals Pakistan in their opening encounter at the Adelaide Oval and then inflicted an embarrassing 130-run loss against South Africa in their second ODI . The Mahendra Singh Dhoni-led side faces West Indies in its next fixture , who are in complete opposite run of form after their heavy loss against the Proteas recently . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
