READ ALSO : India thump UAE by 9 wickets to register third successive win The 10 teams who will feature in England in 2019 will be based on a rankings system with the top eight as of September 30 , 2017 , booking their places with the other two slots decided by a qualifying tournament . As all the Test nations play regular fixtures against each other in one-dayers , it will leave the likes of Afghanistan and Ireland struggling to make the tournament as the major teams are not obliged to play Associate sides . After brushing aside the United Arab Emirates by nine wickets on Saturday to record their third win in three games at this World Cup , Dhoni said demands on Indian cricketers were too high to add any more fixtures . " I do n't see India playing any more games , " he said. " We ca n't , unless we play two games in one day , which is just not possible. India ca n't play any more games. " India brushed aside the UAE by nine wickets to record their third win in three games at this World Cup. ( Reuters Photo ) Despite the magnitude of Saturday 's defeat , UAE skipper Mohammad Tauqir said it was important for his side to get the opportunity to test themselves against the best . " I think the more we play against these bigger nations , the more we learn and the more we perform , " said Tauqir , whose team have been beaten in all three games although they pushed Zimbabwe and Ireland before losing narrowly . " The more we play , the better for the associate nations. " The International Cricket Council ( ICC ) has been widely criticised for the decision to reduce the number of teams in future World Cups with claims that the tournament will become a 'closed-shop ' for the games major powers . It has also been seen as a regressive move for a body expected to grow the game globally . On Friday , however , ICC chief executive David Richardson said that the size of the 2019 World Cup has yet to be decided . " I 've learnt never to say never to anything. I 'm sure the format of the next World Cup will be debated after this one has finished , " he said . Ireland beat one of the elite Test match nations for the third successive World Cup when they defeated the West Indies by four wickets in their 2015 opener . On Thursday , tournament debutants Afghanistan beat Scotland by one wicket to record their first World Cup win . " I 'm pleased with the performances of the qualifiers so far , but the bigger tests are still to come , " said Richardson . " The question is what do you want the World Cup to be ? Do you want it to be a jamboree of world cricket or the pinnacle of the one-day game ? " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
