World Cup 2015 : India still bear the scars of Summer mauling , says Smith The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 24 , 2015 , 01.19PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : India still bear the scars of the mauling they suffered at the hands of Australia at the start of their tour Down Under and Steve Smith thinks it could be a factor when the countries meet in Thursday 's World Cup semifinal . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The world champions have stormed back to imperious form in the World Cup and are unbeaten going into the last four showdown at Sydney Cricket Ground ( SCG ) , where they will be out to end Australia 's bid for a fifth world crown . From the start of December to early February , however , Australia simply dominated India , winning two and drawing two tests and then beating them comfortably in a tri-series match and World Cup warm-up . " I think we 'll have a little edge over them with a few scars from the matches throughout the Summer , they did n't beat us once , " Smith told reporters at the SCG on Tuesday . " So I think that 's going to be playing on their mind a little bit . " They 've been here for a long time now , they 've been able to get accustomed to the conditions , the bounce we 've got here compared to back in India . " Other than that , I just think we need to do what we can do well , to control that. If we do , I 've no doubt it 's going to be a competitive game for us. " Smith 's own spectacular form with the bat played a large part in Australia 's supremacy in the test arena , the 25-year-old scoring centuries in all four matches and 769 runs in total . He has been less prolific in the World Cup , scoring 241 runs in six matches , but showed great maturity in his innings of 65 to help Australia to victory in the quarterfinal against Pakistan . Smith feels his elevation up the batting order to number three works well for the team , especially against spin-reliant sides from the sub-continent . " I have always said I enjoy batting at three and with ( Michael Clarke ) at four we just like to take our time and knock the ball around , " he added . " That will work well against India with their spinners bowling quite a few overs in the middle . " We can knock them around and give our power-hitters the last 15 overs to come in and do what they did against Sri Lanka , I think that is our blue print to ideally perform. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
