World Cup 2015 : Ireland bat first against India in push for quarterfinal spot The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 10 , 2015 , 08.05AM IST Ireland 's Paul Stirling , right , and teammate William Portfield run between the wickets during their Cricket World Cup Pool B match against India. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 HAMILTON : Ireland , who need to win one of their remaining two cricket World Cup matches to grab a quarterfinal place ahead of West Indies , opted to bat first after winning the toss against India at Seddon Park on Tuesday . Scorecard India were unchanged while Ireland , whose bowling has been the weakest feature of their game during the tournament , brought in pace bowler Stuart Thompson for spinner Andy McBrine . Defending champions India won all four of their opening matches in Australia and victory over the Irish would ensure they top the group . Full Coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 The teams have played each other twice , in Belfast in 2007 and at the 2011 World in Bangalore , with India winning both times . The Pool B match in New Zealand 's fourth-largest city attracted a capacity crowd of 11,000 to the pleasant tree-ringed ground , which features two banks built from soil extracted from the nearby rugby union stadium . " We 've approached each match with great clarity and great professionalism , " Ireland captain William Porterfield said on the eve of the match . " We 've prepared really well. It 's a quicker turnaround for this game than what we 've necessarily had before but it 's a good place we 're in and we 've got to start afresh. " India have been unrecognisable from the team who failed to win a game in New Zealand last year and endured a miserable time in Australia before the World Cup . A relaxed MS Dhoni said he was not unhappy about losing the toss as it would give his side the opportunity to chase a target . Teams India : Rohit Sharma , Shikhar Dhawan , Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , Suresh Raina , Mahendra Singh Dhoni ( capt ) , Ravindra Jadeja , Ravichandran Ashwin , Mohammed Shami , Mohit Sharma , Umesh Yadav Ireland : William Porterfield ( capt ) , Paul Stirling , Ed Joyce , Niall O'Brien , Andy Balbirnie , Gary Wilson , Kevin O'Brien , John Mooney , Stuart Thompson , Alex Cusack , George Dockrell Referees : Kumar Dharmasena ( Umpire ) , Richard Kettleborough ( Umpire ) , Johan Cloete ( TV umpire ) , Chris Broad ( Match referee ) Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
