World Cup 2015 : Ireland soar despite England defections The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 17 , 2015 , 12.37PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : England captain Eoin Morgan could have been forgiven for thinking about what might have been after his former Ireland teammates made a fine start to the World Cup as his miserable run of form continued . Morgan was out for a duck -- his fourth in five innings -- as England started their World Cup campaign with a 111-run thrashing by arch-rivals Australia in Melbourne on Saturday . By contrast fellow left-handed batsman Ed Joyce -- who went from Ireland to England and back to Ireland again -- made 84 as the Irish enjoyed their latest taste of World Cup success with a four-wicket victory over the West Indies in Nelson on Monday . Joyce , 36 , made the switch to pursue a bid to play Test cricket -- something he could n't do as an Ireland player . He was followed across the Irish Sea by Morgan , who like Joyce -- now with Sussex -- went to Middlesex , for whom he made a debut aged 19 , before featuring in the lucrative Indian Premier League Twenty20 competition . Joyce made his England ODI debut against Ireland in 2006. He then went on to score a hundred against Australia in Sydney and was a member of England 's squad at the 2007 World Cup . But following a lacklustre showing by his adopted country in the Caribbean , Joyce was dropped . He was granted special dispensation by the International Cricket Council to again represent his home nation shortly before the 2011 World Cup . Joyce said he had qualified to play for England because he wanted to play Tests , but that as a " born and bred Irishman " he was eager to again represent his country . Morgan , 28 , did play Test cricket , making his debut in 2010 and went on to score two hundreds . But a stuttering Test career has so far yielded just 16 appearances in all , the last in 2012 , and a modest average of just over 30 . One of the reasons Ireland are pushing for Test match status is they are fed up of losing their best players to England , with paceman Boyd Rankin also switching allegiance . Ireland 's chief selector Alan Lewis -- a former Irish captain and international rugby referee , made his annoyance clear in an interview with podcast 'The Slog Sweep ' last week . " I look at the England set up and over the last 10 years , three people from this little island where cricket is the fourth or fifth sport are playing for a country whose national sport is cricket , " Lewis said . " It is a wee bit irritating to think where we could be if Eoin and Boyd were available ; obviously we 've got Ed back now . " I would n't want to deprive Eoin Morgan the opportunity with the ability he has , I 'd want to play at the top level...It 's a great story , but it 's a great frustration . " To get our players back , that 's part of the next step. " Former Australia captain Ricky Ponting has argued Ireland should n't be a 'feeder nation ' for England . " I 'm very sympathetic to countries like Ireland that could keep losing their best players. It 's something that I feel should n't happen , " Ponting told the BBC . " If the ICC look at that and are serious about Ireland continuing to grow as a nation and maybe one day being a Test-playing nation then they ca n't afford to have their better players going off at a young age. " But with complaints the top nations already play too much cricket , the question remains as to whether the ICC really are serious about Ireland achieving Test status . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
