World Cup 2015 : Ireland 's wins make life tough for Pakistan and West Indies The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Feb 26 , 2015 , 10.16AM IST Ireland players celebrate after the wicket of UAE 's Krishna Karate ( unseen ) during their World Cup Pool B match at the Gabba cricket stadium in Brisbane. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 Stung by the early exit of India and Pakistan in the 2007 World Cup , the ICC decided to create a foolproof format for this edition , ensuring a smooth ride into the quarterfinals for all top teams. It clearly had n't provided for a refreshingly bold performance from one of the minnows . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Ireland raised that prospect of one of the traditional forces missing out when they upset West Indies in their opening clash ; they turned it into a genuine possibility on Wednesday by fighting all the way till the end and pulling off a thrilling two-wicket victory over the United Arab Emirates . Let us look at the way Group B stands at the moment : India are currently on top of the group with 4 points from 2 matches ; with the big gun out of the way , they will surely win at least two more games to get past this round. South Africa may have lost to India and be wallowing at No. 4 but they have enough depth and talent to recover and finish smartly . Currently , the West Indies are No. 2 with 4 points but they have already played 3 matches and are struggling on net run-rate ; they have two tough games ahead , one against India and another against South Africa , and both can go either way. If they ca n't win even one of them , they will need to trounce UAE on March 15 and then hope that the rest falls into place . Pakistan are right at the bottom , even below UAE , after losing both their matches comprehensively. They will be confident of picking up two points each against UAE and Zimbabwe but wo n't be so self-assured against South Africa . In such a case , the last league game in this group , between Pakistan and Ireland , may well turn out to be a knockout clash. Ireland , on the other hand , may jump to 6 quickly if they stay true to form and tame Zimbabwe on March 7 . They will pray for another victory soon but with South Africa and India looming next it may not be so easy. But if they pull off another big game , then there is no doubt that either Pakistan ( most likely ) or West Indies ( not so likely ) will be the victims . So everything may well boil down to their clash against Pakistan. Interestingly , they can lose to Pakistan and still make it as long as they hang on to their net run-rate advantage. Even more intriguingly , that may well mean that Pakistan too can sneak in , as long as they can do something dramatic about their net run-rates . In such a scenario , West Indies may well be left licking their wounds even if all three end up with six or more points. This may turn out to be a dangerous proposition , as the Pakistan-Ireland clash is scheduled to begin a couple of hours before the West Indies-UAE fixture . As of now , an upset is on the cards . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
