World Cup 2015 : It 's Blue that rules on Holi day The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Mar 7 , 2015 , 08.00AM IST It was a fabulous Holi for new dad Dhoni. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 India stormed into the quarterfinals of the cricket World Cup on Friday , defeating West Indies by four wickets in Perth . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Skipper M S Dhoni anchored the innings with an unbeaten 45 to take the team past the Windies score of 182 after the side was rattled by a rash of wickets in the middle overs. With R Ashwin ( 16 ) giving Dhoni company , India romped home in 39.1 overs , scoring 185 for 6 . READ ALSO : India defeat West Indies to reach quarterfinals Call it a glorious coincidence , India were chasing 183 for a win , the same figure that helped Kapil 's Devils lift the Prudential World Cup against Clive Lloyd 's men in 1983 . It was a fabulous Holi for new dad Dhoni , who overtook Sourav Ganguly as India 's most successful ODI captain abroad , leading the team to 59 victories. The win also helped India extend its unbeaten run in World Cups to eight games . Incidentally , the streak began with an 80-run win over West Indies in Chennai on March 20 , 2011 , also on Holi. On Friday , the much-maligned bowling attack laid the foundation for the victory on a lively WACA pitch , restricting the West Indians to 182 . Man of the match Mohammed Shami ( 335 ) led the attack with aplomb , with pacer Umesh Yadav and spinner Ravindra Jadeja joining the party with two scalps each . With four wins from as many games , India is on top of pool B with eight points and a healthy net run rate of + 2.246 . The team now travels to New Zealand for its final two league engagements against Ireland on Tuesday and Zimbabwe on Saturday . But what will probably interest the Indian fan more is the game between England and Bangladesh at Adelaide on Monday. It is a virtual knockout and the winner could qualify for the quarterfinal as the fourth-placed team from pool A and take on India if Dhoni 's boys do not suffer any reverses in the next two games against the minnows . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
