World Cup 2015 : It 's for little brother Phil Hughes , says Clarke The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 30 , 2015 , 08.27AM IST Australian captain Michael Clarke acknowledges the applause after been dismissed by New Zealand in the ICC World Cup 2015 final at MCG. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : " There are no fairytales in sport , " Michael Clarke insisted , but this was truly the closest that he could come to scripting one . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 A World Cup win as captain in his ODI swansong at a packed MCG , Clarke could n't have asked for more. He looked drained but satisfied , probably happy that he had kept a promise to himself , and his " little brother " Philip Hughes . " I always believed we played with 16 members in this World Cup , " Clarke said in a matter-of-fact way. What he desperately tried to hide was the emotional upheaval that he went through over the last few months. " I had spoken to Phil 's family and I knew they were watching. We had to win this for him , " Clarke said . The skipper did everything that he had to do on Sunday. He was the first one to arrive at the ground , led his team perfectly , and then crafted a fine half-century just when it mattered . It would have been fitting if Clarke was there taking his team to the winning run. But the ovation that he got from the 93,000 as he walked out would surely be one of the most enduring memories of his career . " But I ran off the field , I did n't want to take that , I wanted it for my team. And we got it , the crowd hung on till we got the Cup. " Was this the greatest moment of his career till now ? Clarke stopped for a moment . " I do n't know. Probably scoring that century in Adelaide ( just after Hughes had passed away ) was more important to me. More than this World Cup win , or the one in 2007 , or the two Ashes , " Clarke said . Clarke kept thanking his team for putting up a perfect show , but his personal journey kept coming up all the time. There was a time when he did n't know whether he would play the World Cup , and Clarke said how he kept believing that " it 's the skill and not emotion " that is going to win the World Cup . Now that this part of the journey is over , the 33-year-old will look to extend his Test career , play a few more years successfully . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
