World Cup 2015 : It 's going to be cut-throat , says Faulkner The author has posted comments on this article Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : The whiff of the flowing lager emanating from the Victor Trumper Stand - known more popularly as Bay 17 - will , among other things , set the tone for the second semifinal here at the SCG when fans from all over Australia and the rest of the world take their seats here on Thursday afternoon . Mitchell Starc with the new ball , followed by Josh Hazlewood , Mitchell Johnson , James Faulkner and Shane Watson - depending on the eleven Australia settle for-will run in hard. Not quite MCG 's Bay 13 but Sydney , which for the Aussies is one of their best slices of cricketing history , will be equally fierce. Foul-mouths and slang-leaders will be expected to have a field day , and India 's young men will have a lot to listen to once the action begins . " I think it is always there in the game ( sledging ) . It is the nature of the game , it is the semifinal , " Faulkner said when asked if chatter will be a part of the big-ticket match. " It is going to be cut throat , there are going to be words said. It is going to be a really tough contest. " Faulkner was as candid as a cricketer can get. There 's no doubt that a lot of chatter will take place in the match but it wo n't just be the Australian team doing the honours. " Both teams I suppose wo n't be backing down , " says the Aussie . Australia and Pakistan were at it in Adelaide the other day , with Shane Watson and Wahab Riaz earning a tete-atete with match-referee Ranjan Madugalle. The ICC officials for Thursday 's encounter can be expected to have a tougher day at work . Faulkner says the verbal exchanges between Australia and Pakistan were all in good spirit and a great spectacle. That 's precisely how the Aussies see it , all in good spirit as long as bullying remains the order of the day. However , unlike the Pakistanis , they 'll have in India a bunch of equally young and proud men who wo n't mind giving it back to the hosts . BLAST FROM THE PAST WARNER VS ROHIT | ( JAN '15 ) During the Sydney ODI , David Warner made headlines for getting mired in a brawl with Rohit Sharma. He apparently was busy sledging the Indian player when the latter said something in Hindi , following which the Aussie mouthed the words 'speak English' . DHAWAN VS WATSON : ( NOV '13 ) Shikhar Dhawan mocked an injured Shane Watson during the Bangalore ODI by imitating his limp. The Aussie was struggling to complete a run when Dhawan fielded it and poked mullock at him . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
