World Cup 2015 : Its India 's batting versus South Africa 's bowling , says Kohli The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 21 , 2015 , 08.45AM IST Virat Kohli speaks during a press conference at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on February 21 , 2015 , ahead of their World Cup match against South Africa. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Indian vice-captain Virat Kohli predicts an " exciting " tussle between his team 's batsmen and South Africa 's bowlers during Sunday 's World Cup blockbuster at the Melbourne Cricket Ground . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " Both sides are balanced , so it all depends on how you play on the day , " the leading Indian batsman said ahead of the key Pool B match that will almost certainly assure the winner a place in the quarter-finals . Both teams won their opening games , defending champions India thrashing Pakistan by 76 runs in Adelaide last Sunday and South Africa beating Zimbabwe by 62 runs in Hamilton earlier the same day . Kohli , deputising for skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni at Saturday 's pre-match media conference , said the hard pitch with extra bounce at the MCG will be a challenge for the two teams . " They have good fast bowlers and we have the batsmen , " he said. " So it should be an exciting contest between their bowlers and our batsmen . " The key will be to sustain the momentum for the whole innings. It is not easy to clear boundaries at a big ground like the MCG , so trying to step it up towards the end wo n't be easy . " We need a calculated approach to batting. " The 26-year-old has prospered at the MCG , making 169 and 54 during the drawn Test against Australia in December. He followed that with a match-winning 107 in the World Cup opener against Pakistan in Adelaide . Kohli and the other Indian batsmen now face the prospect of facing a formidable attack that includes Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel and Vernon Philander , backed by Kyle Abbott and Wayne Parnell . Kohli said it was an advantage having played alongside the fearsome Steyn and prolific AB de Villers for the same Royal Challengers Bangalore franchise in the Indian Premier League . " Dale is a good friend , I get the biggest hug from him when we meet , " he said. " But when we get on the field , he will look to dominate me and I will try to dominate him . " There is a good reason why he is one of the best fast bowlers in the game and why AB is a world-class batsmen. We will have plans for every player. But some players have the ability to play the opposite of what we have planned for them. " Kohli said he was excited at the prospect of playing in front of an estimated crowd of over 80,000 fans at the MCG , almost 80 percent of whom were expected to be Indian fans . " I just love playing in a full stadium , " he said. " It is very satisfying when one plays well and makes people happy. It is not always that you will succeed , but if you do , others will be delighted . " It excites me to be playing here. A win here will give us immense self-belief that we can beat a good side. If we get over this hurdle it will be a huge morale-booster for the tougher games ahead . " But I am not one to look too far ahead. It is better to take it one match at a time. We just have to play well as a unit. There is nothing to prove to anyone. " India have never beaten South Africa in the World Cup , losing all three times they met in 1992 , 1999 and 2011. But Dhoni 's men overcame the loss four years ago to lift the title . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
