World Cup 2015 : Jayawardene , Sangakkara bid adieu to ODI cricket The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 18 , 2015 , 04.28PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Mahela Jayawardene and Kumar Sangakkara might not have got a fairytale ending to their final ODI match of their glorious careers but the veterans smiled through the disappointment as they fondly recounted their respective journeys . The duo had already called time on their respective ODI careers before the 50-over showpiece event and it all ended on a bitterly disappointing note as Sri Lanka bowed out with a nine-wicket loss to South Africa in the quarterfinal on Wednesday . Sangakkara , who came into this game with record four consecutive ODI hundreds , scored a valiant 45 but saw an abject surrender from all the other Lankan batsmen as the innings folded for 133 in 37.2 overs . The stylish left-hander stitched a 65-run third wicket stand with Lahiru Thirimanne to pose a fightback after the openers departed but South African spinners Imran Tahir and Jean-Paul Duminy were too hot to handle after sharing seven wickets between them . The 37-year-old Sangakkara , who has scored 14,234 runs in 404 ODIs , was the ninth wicket to fall in the Sri Lankan innings after the batsman stood witness to no-show by the formidable Lankan batting order . Sangakkara though ended on a high after scoring 541 runs in 7 matches of this edition and is still the highest run-scorer of the tournament so far . He became the sixth player to score 500 runs in the World Cup. The loss notwithstanding , he remembered better things about him and partner Jayawardene . " He ( Mahela ) would be terribly disappointed but that 's part and parcel of the game , there are no fairytale endings. How much you want to win a World Cup , end on a high but if it does n't happen , it does n't happen , it does n't mean you walk away disappointed , " said a smiling Sangakkara in a post-match chat . Sangakkara relished the days on the field with Jayawardene . " It was always friendly , there was never any rivalry , other than when we played a warm-up game. When I got into the side , Mahela was two years there and he was already the vice-captain and he was looked upto , he had a lot of respect. We was of the same age , we hung out together and that 's how we became fast friends . " When we batted in the field , it was great because he always looked to dominate and I could slip under the radar and coast along. We always knew that we had that little thing where if he accelerates I can take a backseat. It has been an absolute privileged to bat with him , " he said . Jayawardene , who had already quit the longest format , now bows out of the international scene after a career that started in 1997. He leaves with 17,838 first-class runs to his name , 11,814 of them in 149 Test matches. He played 448 ODIs , accumulating 12,650 runs . Jayawardene though has n't had the best of World Cups after managing just a solitary ton in the game against Afghanistan. But the elegant batsman has no regrets . " The hardest thing was to evolve with everything , everyday something new , every team is trying something new , so for you to survive , you need to keep pushing yourself and that is the most important thing. To be mentally , physically trying to outdo oneself , something that has been the toughest thing . " But playing cricket with this group of players , enjoying with them in the dressing room , has been satisfying. But the most challenging has been to evolve from I started in 1997 to now when cricket has improved drastically , " he said . " If you take the bowlers , the variations , they have a lot of variations under their armory. Even the batsmen they play so many different shots now. I think the tactics have changed , the way people look at the game has changed , it is more analysing. That 's fantastic. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
