World Cup 2015 : Junction Oval 's Warne connection The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 19 , 2015 , 10.49AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Legendary leg-spinner Shane Warne has special affiliation with the Junction Oval ground , where India had their first practice session since in Melbourne on Monday . The Junction Oval , in the eastern suburbs , belongs to St. Kilda Cricket Club , which Warne had joined as a teenager before going on to play for Victoria in the Sheffield Shield tournament . A 16-year-old Shane Warne joined the St. Kilda Cricket Club near his home suburb of Black Rock in 1985 . He started in the lower XIs and over a number of seasons progressed to the first XI. During the off-season in 1987 , Warne also played five games of Australian Rules football for the St. Kilda Football Club 's under-19 team . In 1988 Warne once again played for the St. Kilda Football Club 's under-19 team before being upgraded to the reserves team , one step below professional level. Following the 1988 Victorian Football League season , Warne was delisted by St . Kilda and began to focus solely on cricket . He was later chosen to train at the AIS Australian Cricket Academy in 1990 in Adelaide . Warne made his first-class cricket debut on February 15 , 1991 , taking 061 and 141 for Victoria against Western Australia at the Junction Oval . His first victim in first-class was Tom Moody . A year later he made his Test debut against India in Sydney in a match in which Ravi Shastri got a double hundred . In a foreword in the souvenir to commemorate the 150th anniversary of the club , Warne had written : " It seems only yesterday that I first walked into St. Kilda practice and was asked what I did. I told the practice captain Noel Hardbound that I was a batsman , but also had a bit of a bowl . " Years later I found out that Shaun Graf ( captain coach ) had approached Noel and asked what the kid with blonde hair did. On being told what I 'd said , Shaun smiled and said , 'Not sure about the batting , but he might be a chance with the ball. ' " I played colts , fourths and thirds in the first year and fourths and thirds the next year. Like everyone , it was all about serving an apprenticeship and I was luckier than most to serve my time at the Junction with so many I still number among my closest friends. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
