Virat Kohli Relaxes With Anushka Sharma Ahead of Sydney Test Virat Kohli Relaxes With Anushka Sharma Ahead of Sydney Test Virat Kohli , India 's new permanent Test captain , was spotted with girlfriend Anushka Sharma at the Sydney Harbour . Last updated on Monday , 05 January , 2015 17 : 46 IST Total Shares File photo of Anushka Sharma and Virat Kohli who were earlier spotted at the Melbourne airport. ( This image was posted on Instragram by viratkohlifc ) © Instagram Behind every successful man , there 's a woman. It goes vice-versa in current times as well. Just ask Virat Kohli and Anushka Sharma . The two were spotted taking a stroll at Sydney 's iconic Darling Harbour on Friday - days ahead of the fourth and final Test against Australia. While Kohli will lead the Indians for the first time as a permanent Test captain , the cricketer appeared calm and composed in his girlfriend 's company. ( Also read : Virat Kohli voted 'Biggest Sports Jerk of the Week ' by Aussies ) Kohli has had a decent series Down Under so far. He is the second-highest run-getter in the series - his 499 placing him just below Aussie captain Steve Smith who has 581 runs. While runs have flowed freely from his willow , words too have shot out in equal measure in what have been riveting on-field verbal duels. ( Johnson praises Kohli | Johnson may miss Sydney Test ) Having Anushka by his side though would augur well for the 26-year-old ahead of the Sydney Test. Fresh from the success of her movie PK , Anushka has been like a breath of fresh air in the Australian summer. She was seen in a white floral dress at the Melbourne Cricket Ground . On Friday , the Bollywood actress went casual in a black top paired with denims . So , even as Australians plan to play boring cricket to pin down Kohli , the Indian cricketer appears relaxed enough to rise to the challenge of replacing Mahendra Singh Dhoni as Test captain . Story first published on : Saturday , 03 January 2015 12 : 30 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
