World Cup 2015 : 'Kirsten 's presence in SA camp wo n't make much difference' The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 18 , 2015 , 08.40PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Even as South Africa plot India 's downfall with the help of Gary Kirsten and Mike Hussey , cricketing greats Sunil Gavaskar and Ian Chappell on Wednesday felt their presence would not make much of a difference to the Proteas ' chances in their World Cup game against the holders . South Africa have hired the services of former India coach Kirsten and Hussey , who has got a fair knowledge about players like Mahendra Singh Dhoni , Suresh Raina and Ravindra Jadeja , having played in the IPL . " It will help to an extent but then a lot depends on how they play on the field , " Gavaskar said . Chappell said , " Those guys will only help ( South Africa ) if India think too much about Kirsten and Hussey. These things are peripheral. " South Africa 's record against India in the World Cup is an enviable 3-0 , having won their matches in 92 , 99 and 2011 editions. The two teams will square off at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on Sunday . " Kirsten knows how people react in the Indian dressing room. Hussey has also played in the IPL. They will try and tell how to play the Indian spinners , how to negotiate 20 overs of spin , " the former captain said . Calling the Proteas a better bowling unit , Gavaskar added : " India should n't take South African bowling attack lightly. India need to bat sensibly early on and score at least 260-270. " Chappell , who had led Australia in the past , felt India have good chance of beating South Africa . " India have a good chance of beating South Africa if they play like they played versus Pakistan. If they get the same captaincy from Dhoni . " I am not so worried about South Africa 's pace attack. Steyn is up there but Morkel is inconsistent , Philander is not quick and Imran Tahir was smashed around the park by the Australians. And the Indians play spin better than Australia. It 's a big opportunity for India as long as they go with the same approach , " Chappell said , raising India 's hopes of breaking the WC jinx against the Proteas . He added , " I would rather play Axar Patel than Ravindra as he is better wicket-taking option in the middle overs. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
