World Cup 2015 : Kiwis lap up 'Sofa ' commentary The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 18 , 2015 , 09.58AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Imagine three friends lazing on the sofa , using slang to make jibes at the national cricket team , and that 's being broadcast live ! That 's Alternative Cricket Commentary for you and it 's a rage in New Zealand these days . This is a group of seven men -Jason Hoyte , Jeremy Wells , Mike Lane , Leigh Hart , Matt Heath , Paul Ford and Lee Bakev -who do live commentary sitting in their small van inside the ground and the public laps it up. These men do not bother to be politically correct - they use the 'f ' word , sexual innuendoes are part of their commentary and the love lives of players are also discussed. " We talk about everything and it 's all in good humour. In England , there is a similar show called 'Test Match Sofa ' , but there 's no official recognition for it , " Ford told TOI on the sidelines of the New Zealand-England match . Alternative Cricket Commentary , though , has been recognized by New Zealand Cricket and that 's why they are allowed to broadcast from inside the ground. " Our ratings are higher than the official broadcasters and the best thing about it is that NZC allows us to do so , " Lane said . During each session , one does the serious commentary while two others come up " with all the rubbish " . " The ball 's been played to mid-off and Grant Elliot picks it up " , the 'serious ' commentator would say and the other two immediately come up with " Oh that hairy javelin ! Is Grant the worst looking guy in the team ? " and there 's invariably a roll of laughter . Ford says the players like it too , and many of them often drop by. " It 's all so relaxing. We had Dan Vettori some time back , talking with us after the day 's play . It was all fun. " For an Indian audience , the use of slang in commentary may sound scan dalous , but Ford explains why it 's important in a New Zealand set-up. " In India , cricket is the No. 1 sport by a distance. In New Zealand it 's rugby all the way , cricket is on a much lower plane . For the Kiwis , cricket is a game of relaxation over a beer with a few friends . It 's not life and death for us. And that 's the mood that we try to capture in our commentary. " The group has n't had the opportunity of interviewing any Indian player so far. " They looked way beyond reach for us during the tour last summer , may be some other time , " Ford said , laughing . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
