World Cup 2015 : Kohli & Co need to tackle new ball adeptly , says Wessels The author has posted comments on this article Ruchir Mishra , TNN | Feb 19 , 2015 , 10.58AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Being a former opener himself , Kepler Wessels knows the importance of a good start. A good beginning can take the pressure away from the middle order batsmen who can express themselves freely. He might have played in a different era but is well aware of the challenges of modern cricket where , unlike yesteryears , openers do n't wait for the shine to go away ; they rather enjoy taking the attack to the new ball . Dale Steyn and Co , though , are different in this regard . They are generally right on the money and hardly give an inch . Steyn 's absence played a major part in India 's victory in the ICC Champions Trophy in England in 2013 where they batted South Africa out of the game with a huge total of 331. And one crucial element of the upcoming World Cup game between the two teams in Melbourne will be how the teams use the new ball , while batting and bowling . " India have a strong batting line-up. That 's where the game is going to be won or lost. If In dia can do well against South African bowlers , particularly against the new ball , they have a good chance. If the Indian top order plays well , they can set up the game for their bowlers , " Wessels told TOI on Wednesday from Johannesburg . " The key to the Indian top order is to bat long. If their two specialist batsmen bat in the final 10 overs , they can take the game away very quickly and that 's the danger while playing against them. If you do n't strike with the new ball , they can get anything. I do n't think lack of power hitters in the lower order will hurt India as South Africa also do n't have big hitters there , " he said . While Indians may have struggled against South African pacers in the past , they are traditionally very good players of spin. Will Imran Tahir be as effective against India as he has been against many other teams recently ? " Tahir has done well in the middle overs. He will be a factor in this game. It would be interesting to see how he bowls to the Indian batsmen. If they go after him , it will also give him a chance to pick up wickets , " the former South Africa skipper , who has also played international cricket for Australia , said . On the other hand , Wessels does n't feel Indian spinners will be a factor. " The Indian spinners are not so successful in the last couple of years when they tour. South African batsmen have seen enough of ( Ravindra ) Jadeja and ( Ravichandran ) Ashwin. They know what to expect.I do n't think spin will be going to be much of a factor. As I have said , it would be a contest be tween Indian top order and South African pace at tack , " he reiterated . Wessels has seen India play against Pakistan in the last match , where they did most of the things right. But while the Indian pacers took wickets against Pakistan , it would be a different ball game against South Africa . " South Africa is a different side. They will come hard on them in every department , be it bowling or batting. And do n't forget their fielding too. Indian pace bowlers bowled well against Pakistan but South Africans are better players of fast bowling. So , it would be a different challenge for them. They will have to be more consistent in Melbourne , " he signed off . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
