World Cup 2015 : Laxman heaps praise on Dhoni 'the player ' and 'captain' The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 15 , 2015 , 02.37PM IST Laxman is impressed with Dhoni 's approach as captain in this tournament. ( PTI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : With most of the Indian batsmen striking form in the ongoing cricket World Cup , former India player VVS Laxman believes that the team 's batting line-up was primed to do well in the knock-out stage . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 India rode Suresh Raina 's unbeaten 110 to chase down a 288-run target against Zimbabwe in their last league game to end on top of Pool B. They meet Bangladesh in their quarterfinal match at the MCG on Thursday . " I am very happy to see Suresh Raina amongst the run scorers. India 's top-four have had enough exposure so far and they seem to be in a good touch , " Laxman , who is a part of the Star Sports Hindi commentary panel for the World Cup , said . If man-of-the-match Raina led the batting attack , then captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni once again showed his class with an unbeaten 85 off 76 deliveries . 'Captain Cool ' stitched a 196-run unbeaten fifth wicket partnership with Raina to make things easy for India after the team looked in trouble at 92 for four . Laxman could not stop praising Dhoni 'the player ' and 'captain' . " One thing which impresses me a lot about Dhoni is his style of adapting to different situations in the game. Dhoni reads situations well and always has a plan ready. Dhoni had been handed the responsibility of captaincy very early in his career and I believe that he has made the most out of it , " said the stylish Hyderabadi batsman . With that win over Zimbabwe by six wickets , India finished with an all-win record in their six group league matches , thereby stretching their number of successive victories in the tournament to 10 over two editions surpassing Clive Lloyd 's West Indies ' record from the start of 1975 Prudential Cup to the first match of 1983 edition ( losing to India at Old Trafford ) . They only have Australia in front of them , with 24 straight wins between 1999 and 2011 editions . Laxman is impressed with Dhoni 's approach as captain in this tournament . " He has handled his team very well so far in the tournament. He was always criticised for not talking to the bowlers during the game , but in this tournament especially he has taken an extra effort to go and speak to the bowlers and guide his team to bowl as per the situation , " said Laxman . India turned their fortunes in the World Cup after a lacklustre show in Test matches and the tri-series and Laxman was all praise for the team 's all-round display . " Team India has shown its strength in all departments. The three seamers took three wickets each in the first innings ( against Zimbabwe ) . They ( India ) were in a sticky situation in the second innings as they had lost four early wickets. But , a brilliant partnership between Raina and Dhoni stole the show and got India to victory , " concluded Laxman . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
