World Cup 2015 : Long break good for bowlers , says Dhoni The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 18 , 2015 , 08.36AM IST There was relief for the Indian team after their emotionally-draining match against Pakistan in Adelaide on Sunday. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : There was relief for the Indian team after their emotionally-draining match against Pakistan in Adelaide on Sunday. The weather here in Melbourne added to the comfort factor after the sizzling 40 degrees in Adelaide . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 It has been cloudy in Melbourne , with a cool breeze keeping temperatures in the range of 25 degrees. It will remain in that region over the weekend when India take on South Africa on Sunday . " It is good that India are through with the high-octane match against Pakistan the first thing in the World Cup. Now the pleasant weather here has enabled the players to take it easy and recuperate for the next match , " a team official told TOI . The team chose to stay away from cricket for the second consecutive day on Tuesday , after arriving in Melbourne the previous afternoon. There are indications that the players may have optional practice on Wednesday and Thursday , before getting down to seriously work for Sunday 's match at the MCG . Skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni had said after the victory over Pakistan that the 10-day break following the Tri-series was an ideal situation for the team . " The time off helped us to break the long tour into two segments. As all the players had taken a total break from cricket then , they all came break fresh. The World Cup became like a new start for us , not an extension of the same long tour , " he said , explaining the logic behind that long break from cricket . " We would like to keep the kit bag locked and keys thrown away and not think of cricket for the next few days to come back rejuvenated for the World Cup , " Dhoni had said in Perth . " We had injury issues during the first part of the tour. But the support staff has worked hard on getting the injured players fit , barring , of course , Ishant Sharma. It has been a big positive that the other three injured players are fit and available for selection , " Dhoni had said before the Pakistan match . And he reiterated the 'break theme ' after Sunday 's win : " There are long breaks between the matches and that should help the players recover for the next matches . " There is a gap of six days now and we are going to make the most of it. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
