World Cup 2015 : Master motivator will be egging SA on The author has posted comments on this article Prasad RS , TNN | Mar 24 , 2015 , 09.39AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : As South Africa lock horns with New Zealand on Tuesday , renowned explorer and adventurer Mike Horn will be present in the Proteas ' dressing room , cheering them on. Just before their quarterfinals against Sri Lanka , coach Russell Domingo had highlighted what Horn meant to the side . " He put it all into perspective for us , what pressure and fear is like and being out of your comfort zone , because he 's been in that situation a lot of times with real-life experiences , " Domingo had mentioned . Swimming the river Amazon , scaling 8000m mountains , trekking to the North Pole and circumnavigating the globe along the equator are a few of the numerous expeditions undertaken by Mike. Over the years , not only has Mike succeeded in scaling the biggest of peaks , but also played a key role in inspiring three champion sides. His stints with the Indian cricket team during the 2011 World Cup , the German national side at the Fifa World Cup last year and association with Kolkata Knight Riders ( KKR ) during IPL 7 have all been well-documented . So , what does Horn bring to the table ? For starters , the 48-year-old South Africa-born Swiss adventurer will leave a lasting impression with his introductory handshake , as was found out by Joy Bhattarcharjya who has been associated with KKR in the first seven seasons of IPL before his stint as project director of the 2017 U-17 Fifa World Cup. " It was a firm one. I felt like I was shaking hands with someone whose hands were made of granite , " said Joy . He recalled Mike 's opening interaction with the KKR team . " Mike started off narrating how he walked on ice at the North Pole in complete darkness for over 5 days only to find out that he had gone just 1 mile forward since the ice was shifting backwards. Numerous such tales left the players wide-mouthed. Players soon realized that unlike Mike , they only had to simpler things to do , like giving their best on the field. There was a definite shift in their attitude , " Joy told TOI . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
