World Cup 2015 : Mathews begs Sangakkara not to quit The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 11 , 2015 , 05.19PM IST Despite his form , Kumar Sangakkara , who has played 403 ODIs and made over 14,000 runs , insisted that there will be no going back on his decision. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 HOBART : Sri Lanka captain Angelo Mathews said Wednesday that he has gone down on his knees to beg record-breaking batsman Kumar Sangakkara not to quit after the World Cup . Scorecard Sangakkara , 37 , will call time on his ODI career at the end of the tournament but he is still in a rich vein of form -- on Wednesday he became the first batsman to score four consecutive one-day centuries as Sri Lanka thrashed Scotland by 148 runs . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The left-hander hit 124 off 95 balls and 38-year-old Tillakaratne Dilshan made 104 as the Islanders piled up 363 for nine and then bowled Scotland out for 215 in the Pool A match at the Bellerive Oval . Sangakkara had also made 105 not out against Bangladesh , an unbeaten 117 against England and 104 against Australia . He is also the leading scorer in the ongoing tournament with 496 runs from six games . If that was n't enough , Sangakkara also took two catches to overtake Adam Gilchrist as the most successful World Cup wicketkeeper with 54 dismissals. The Australian had 52 victims to his name . " I 've been on my knees asking Kumar not to retire but we have to respect his wishes because we are thankful for all the times he has represented the country , " said Mathews . The skipper added : " The boys played really well and credit should go to Dilshan and Sangakkara , they are getting better and better with age . " We have to take one game at a time and play positive cricket. If we can improve our bowling and fielding , it will be great but the batters have posted 300 four times in a row. That is never easy. " Despite his form , Sangakkara , who has played 403 ODIs and made over 14,000 runs , insisted that there will be no going back on his decision . " Retirement is not about form , it is about time and place and whether it feels right. It is never about whether you can play or not , " he said . Sri Lanka had already qualified for the quarterfinals and will likely face South Africa in the last eight while Scotland have now lost all five matches . But the Scots made a fight of it with skipper Preston Mommsen ( 60 ) and Freddie Coleman ( 70 ) putting on 118 for the fourth wicket . " Today was a huge learning experience , especially watching some of the best batsmen in the world. We saw how they kept calm under pressure , so we could learn a lot , " said Mommsen . " Sangakkara is definitely No. 1 in terms of the players we have had to play against. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
