World Cup 2015 : Mature fans accept end of India 's World champion reign The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 27 , 2015 , 01.04PM IST Australia 's Aaron Finch ( L ) shakes hands with Mahendra Singh Dhoni after the World Cup semifinal at Sydney Cricket Ground. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : India 's notoriously volatile fans showed rare maturity in accepting the end of their team 's reign as world champions after Thursday 's semifinal defeat against co-hosts Australia in Sydney . Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 The defending champions struggled during their build-up , losing a four-Test series 2-0 against Australia and then failing to win a single match in the following tri-series , also involving England . But expectations soared after they won all their six pool matches and easily defeated Bangladesh in their quarterfinal , taking all 70 opposition wickets in the process . The Hindustan Times newspaper summed up the mood of the nation with their front page headline which read " Heartbreak , but young team does India proud " . " Overall , quite happy with where we were , " said India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni , while addressing reporters at the Sydney Cricket Ground after the 95-run loss . " At the start of the tournament , a lot of people did n't really think we 'll come so far. " " He tried " ran the main headline on the front page of the Indian Express newspaper with a picture of the Indian captain walking back with his head bowed after being run out for 65 . Heavy security was deployed at MS Dhoni 's house after Indian team lost the semifinal match against Australia. ( TOI Photo ) While security was beefed up at Dhoni 's residence in Ranchi , there was no incident of stone pelting like in 2007 when India bowed out of the tournament in the group stage after a humiliating loss to Bangladesh . The disappointment , though , led to fans taking to social networking sites initially , venting their anger against star batsman Virat Kohli , who made one off 13 balls , and his Bollywood actress girlfriend , who was present at the SCG . But it was soon over-ridden by people , including former India captain Sourav Ganguly , slamming those taking digs at the duo and blaming them for the defeat . One national television channel flayed the team for their efforts in the semifinal but was criticised on social media for sensationalism . Fans were , however , in unison in agreeing that India 's juggernaut screeched to a halt against a superior team in the form of Australia . The Times of India mentioned " India meet their match " and that view was seconded by most columnists in various newspapers . Former captain Rahul Dravid had no qualms in accepting that the best two teams have reached the final while Ganguly felt India were " outplayed " . " India were outplayed by a much better team , " said Ganguly , who captained India in the 2003 World Cup final loss to Australia . " First it was a good toss to win for Australian captain Michael Clarke . Second , it was the pressure of the target of 329 , the pressure of chasing a big total that did India in . " Third , Australia had a better bowling attack. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
