World Cup 2015 : McCullum hails 'sublime ' Guptill knock The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 21 , 2015 , 02.33PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 WELLINGTON : New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum acclaimed opener Martin Guptill 's World Cup record 237 not out against West Indies on Saturday as one of the best ever seen in one-day cricket . The co-hosts overwhelmed the twice former champions by 143 runs in the final quarterfinal at the Wellington Regional Stadium to set up a semifinal against South Africa in Auckland on Tuesday . " Sublime , just sublime , " McCullum said at the victory presentation. " I will never forget it. The innings we witnessed is probably one of the best we have seen in this format . " We wanted to make a real statement on the back of Gup 's innings and that 's what we did with the ball and in the field. We will celebrate Gup 's success , the team 's success and then turn our attention to the semifinal . " It 's pretty hard to compare eras but certainly among the teams I have played in , this is the best. No disrespect to the legends of the past but I am pretty happy with the current team. " West Indies captain Jason Holder said Guptill , who was dropped on four from the third ball of the match , had played brilliantly . " A set batman on that pitch is dangerous. Having said that we did n't bowl our yorkers well , " he added . Guptill said his innings had not quite sunk in yet . " The boys will have a few drinks tonight and I 'll probably hear all about it. In the last 10 overs it was swing from the hip and I was lucky to get a few out of the middle , " he said . " We had a couple of good partnerships early which set the game up. We were trying to take each ball as it comes and just build a partnership . " After I got the hundred I just thought I should probably hit a few boundaries. It was the quickest outfield I have played on here. You got value for your shots. " New Zealand pace bowler Trent Boult , who took four wickets to overhaul Australia 's Mitchell Starc as the tournament 's top wicket taker , said he rated Guptill 's innings as the best he had seen . " It was nice to go out and bowl well as a unit in a pretty difficult situation , they were coming out there to give it everything. It 's on to Auckland now and hopefully we can make it some more good memories , " Boult said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
