Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 McCullum was at his destructive best in his 49-ball stay. He smacked one six and 10 fours , including three boundaries off the first four balls he faced , to the delight of the partisan New Zealand crowd . Big-hitting Corey Anderson added 75 in a late onslaught , Kane Williamson chimed in with 57 , the 13th time he has bettered the half-century mark in 17 innings over the past year , and Guptill added 49 . Sri Lanka were not without their own highlights with Jeevan Mendis dismissing Williamson and Ross Taylor with successive balls before Anderson avoided the hattrick . On a grey Christchurch day , where a brief shower delayed the start of play by eight minutes and the temperature hovered around 13 degrees Celsius , the Sri Lankans were rarely able to stand still long enough to feel the chill . McCullum was particularly harsh on Sri Lanka 's bowling ace Lasith Malinga who was quickly removed from the attack when McCullum peppered the boundary for a lusty 22 off his fourth over . By the time McCullum was eventually out -- caught on the long-off boundary by a leaping Mendis to give Rangana Herath the honour of taking the first wicket -- New Zealand were well set . Williamson was nearly gone first ball when he edged Suranga Lakmal only for wicketkeeper Kumar Sangakkara to spill the difficult chance . Lakmal was to be rewarded a few overs later when he found the edge of Guptill 's bat and that time Sangakkara was able to get both hands to the ball to complete the dismissal . Williamson was removed by an outstanding catch by Dimuth Karunaratne sprinting around the boundary and Taylor was stumped by Sangakkara for 14 off the next ball . At 196-4 and with 15 overs remaining Anderson upped the tempo for New Zealand with his 75 off 46 deliveries before he was out on the last ball of the innings . He added 65 with Grant Elliott ( 29 ) for the fifth wicket and 73 with Luke Ronchi ( 29 not out ) for the sixth wicket . For Sri Lanka , the rarely used Mendis took two for five off his two overs while Lakmal finished with two for 62 . Malinga , who struggled with line and length , ended with figures of none for 84. He did bowl Ronchi on 16 but the delivery was a no ball . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
