World Cup 2015 : McCullum stunned by 'bizarre ' New Zealand win The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 20 , 2015 , 12.29PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 WELLINGTON : Record-breaking New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum said a crushingly lopsided ICC World Cup 2015 win over England in Wellington on Friday was a " bizarre " achievement . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The Black Caps cemented their status as one of the favourites for the tournament with a dominant display as they recorded their third straight victory in as many Pool A matches , with this fixture completed in 45.4 overs -- fewer than half the scheduled maximum for a one-day international . New Zealand paceman Tim Southee took seven for 33 , the third-best World Cup figures of all-time , as England were bowled out for just 123 . McCullum then piled on the agony for England with the fastest-ever World Cup fifty , off just 18 balls , on his way to a whirlwind 77 . " It 's a great win , while England have probably struggled of late , we knew we 'd have to keep them quiet , " McCullum said at the presentation ceremony . As for man-of-the-match Southee 's haul , McCullum added : " It 's one of the best spells of bowling I 've seen for a long time . " Tim 's been leading our group for a long time and with Trent Boult , he got the ball swinging a huge amount . " To win by that sort of margin , it 's bizarre really. We 've earned ourselves a good break after a great first week of the tournament. " Southee , roared on by a capacity 33,000 crowd at the Westpac Stadium , said : " A packed house was pretty special to come out in front of. We 've been bowling well as a group for a long time and today was one of those moments when it all went well for us . " Our bowling coach , Shane Bond , does a lot of work behind the scenes and puts confidence into us. " For England , this was a second thumping loss in as many matches after they launched their World Cup campaign with a 111-run defeat by Australia , the other co-hosts , in Melbourne last weekend . With non-Test nation Scotland next up , England captain Eoin Morgan was optimistic the worst was over for his battered team . " I thought New Zealand bowled really well. Conditions suited them -- it swung throughout our innings which was unexpected , " he said . " Our first two games were always going to be tough , we need a win as soon as possible now. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
