World Cup 2015 : MCG holds no fears for Black Caps , says Southee The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 27 , 2015 , 05.05PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : New Zealand seamer Tim Southee believes the Black Caps have the experience and the firepower to topple Australia in Sunday 's ICC World Cup 2015 final in Melbourne . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Southee said the Black Caps were relishing the opportunity of playing in their maiden World Cup final -- a match that will also mark New Zealand 's first appearance at the vast Melbourne Cricket Ground in six years . New Zealand are the form side of the tournament having won all eight of their matches at this World Cup , a sequence that includes two dramatic clashes in Auckland -- a one-wicket win over Australia in the pool phase and Tuesday 's semifinal defeat of South Africa sealed by Grant Elliott 's six off the second-last ball . Australia captain Michael Clarke reckons his side 's knowledge of playing at the MCG will be a major factor in the final as the home team chase a fifth World Cup title following their emphatic 95-run semifinal victory over defending champions India in Sydney on Thursday . But that does n't wash with Southee , who has claimed 15 wickets at 27.13 in the tournament and formed a potent new-ball combination with left-armer Trent Boult , the tournament 's leading bowler with 21 wickets at 15.76 . Former Australia opener Matthew Hayden suggested the sheer side of the MCG for a New Zealand team who 'd played all their previous matches at this World Cup on their own , much smaller grounds - sparking a tide of derisive comments on social media from Black Caps fans . But Southee told reporters at the MCG on Friday : " We are not too worried about the size of the ground . " It 's a dream come true for all the guys. This is as good as it gets , taking on Australia in Australia on one of the best cricket grounds in the world. " Veteran left-arm spinner Daniel Vettori has more experience of the MCG than his New Zealand team-mates , having played there seven times since 1997 , while skipper Brendon McCullum and Ross Taylor have played there twice with Martin Guptill , Grant Elliott , Southee and Kyle Mills all having had one MCG appearance each . All seven played in New Zealand 's last visit to the ground , when they beat Australia by six wickets in 2009 . " We have n't played here for a long time. We have good memories from that ( 2009 ) game as well , " Southee said . " A lot of the guys have played in front of pretty big crowds in India. There will be close to 100,000 people screaming ( on Sunday ) . " It will be interesting to see what it 's like here. " Southee added : " The rivalry between Australia and New Zealand does pretty much cover every sport and it is massive . " We 're probably seen as the 'little brothers from across the ditch ' and we do quite well in other sports ( such as both rugby codes ) to compete . " Australia have had the wood on us over the last couple of years in cricket . " As a kid growing up it was always Australia that you wanted to play against...You 're always wanting to have one-up over the 'big brothers'. " Boult was the destroyer with five for 27 when the Black Caps beat Australia in Auckland during the pool stages on February 28 , while Southee grabbed a career-best seven for 33 in the celebrated win over England in Wellington . " To do what he 's done over the last couple of months has been amazing , " Southee said of Boult. " We do have a great partnership . " A bit of swing would be nice. It has n't swung for us in every game but we 've found ways to take wickets . " If it does swing we do become a big more dangerous. " The MCG is also etched deep in New Zealand 's sporting psyche as it was where the infamous 'underarm ' delivery took place in 1981 . To prevent New Zealand from having any chance of scoring the six they needed to tie , Australia captain Greg Chappell instructed younger brother Trevor to bowl the last ball underarm along the ground to Brian McKechnie , who hurled his bat away in disgust at Australia 's lack of sportsmanship . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
