World Cup 2015 : Melbourne Diary The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 20 , 2015 , 11.48AM IST Page 1 of 4 'Ashwin , Bhuvi are fit for SA clash' The Indian team management has dismissed reports that Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Ravichandran Ashwin were unfit and said both are " very much available " for the match against South Africa in Melbourne on Sunday.Bhuvi was reported to be in doubt after a tepid training session in Melbourne on Wednesday , some reports said off-spinner Ashwin was struck by an Umesh Yadav delivery while batting in the nets. " We are receiving so many calls from media about Ashwin and Bhuvneshwar 's fitness , " team 's media manager Dr . RN Baba said on Thursday. " The two players are very much available for selection for the match against South Africa , " Baba said. The Indian team , after an off day , will practice at Junction Oval on Friday. On Saturday , the team will be at the MCG for the final training session before the big tie . Indians take a trip to Ocean Groove The Indian squad made the most of an off day on Thursday by visiting Ocean Groove , a set of eight beautiful beaches , some 70 km from Melbourne.It is a place where one can explore the unbroken stretch of sand that reaches out to the mouth of Barwon River. This place is also famous for surfing and bodyboarding facilities . Sachin to watch Melbourne game ? There are indications that Sachin Tendulkar will be in Melbourne to witness India play South Africa on Sunday. There was also buzz that he may give a pep talk to the Indian players ahead of one of their toughest matches in the group stage. Tendulkar is also slated to be a star attraction at a dinner in Sydney where an elite gathering will be present at an event to be organised by a five-star hotel on February 26 . Recovering Steyn bowls in nets session South Africa are confident that Dale Steyn will recover completely from sinusitis to play in against India. The speedster was at South African nets where he bowled for over half an hour. He unleashed his trademark bouncers which had batsmen like Quinton de Kock and JP Duminy ducking for cover. The 31-year-old paceman was suffering from flu-like symptoms in the opening game over Zimbabwe and recorded modest figures of 1-64 from nine overs. " He had a bout of sinusitis but he showed in the nets of Thursday that he is recovering well. He will be back at training on Friday , " the team 's media manager Lerato Malekutu said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
