World Cup 2015 : Melbourne Masala - Indian fans at it already The author has posted comments on this article Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Talking about wagging the wrong fingers , the Bangladesh team was in for a surprise when they landed at Melbourne airport on Saturday and were about to take the bus to their hotel. A crowd of Indians did everything to intimidate them and let the Bangla cricketers know that this was 2015 and not 2007. " Every day is not a Sunday , " shouted an excited bunch of young men. The stage is being set for the March 19 contest . Virat remains the talking point Virat Kohli 's popularity in Australia is reminiscent of how dearly the Indians cared for Javed Mianded during the latter 's playing days. For someone who also got famous wagging the wrong finger in this country , Kohli is still the talking point in most cricketing conversation here these days. An elderly couple were at home giving this writer a drive on the highway until Kohli 's name came up for discussion. " That thug ? He abused one of you journalists , right ? " said the gentleman. The lady nodded her head in agreement , the smile going cold. Thankfully the journey ended well in time . Tickets for India 's quarters selling like hot cake Melbourne , the city that hosts some of the world 's most well-attended cricket matches , and which last hosted the India-South Africa tie - the most well-attended match of the tournament so far - is now getting ready to host the second quarterfinal of the tournament involving India. The fact that this game is going to see a full house too was evident by the clamour for tickets at a promotional event inside one of the city 's prominent shopping malls.Three tickets were available for those successful in throwing five tennis balls in an exaggeratedly small mouth of a giant-sized paper monster and there were hundreds jostling to accomplish the feat. No doubt Melbourne Cricket Ground never fails to fill up when India are playing ? Another chance for Pakistan ? So Pakistan are finally in the quarterfinals and who 's happy about it ? The Pakistanis of course because they now stand a chance of facing India again in this World Cup.That , in turn , means there 's a possibility of them breaking the World Cup jinx against India. Of course , before that they have to get past Australia in the quarterfinals . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
