World Cup 2015 : Minnows make their mark in three games in a row The author has posted comments on this article Avijit Ghosh , TNN | Feb 17 , 2015 , 09.57PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : It 's early days yet but the minnows have already made their mark in ICC World Cup 2015. In fact , the spirited performances by the lesser teams - Ireland , Zimbabwe and Scotland - against the big boys has spiced up the ODI world championship . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Ironically , all the one-sided contests so far involve the major Test-playing nations : Australia thumped England by 111 runs , New Zealand swamped Sri Lanka by 98 runs and India furthered their dominance over familiar foe Pakistan by 76 runs , one of their biggest wins in the prestigious event . It is a different story when the smaller sides are on the pitch. Ireland have made a habit of dropping at least one bombshell in every World Cup. In 2007 , they first shocked Pakistan and then romped past Bangladesh. Four years later , they outgunned England in one of the most high-scoring matches of the championship. Now after downing West Indies in a Group B game , they are serious contenders for a last-eight spot . It was n't just the win but the manner in which it came about. The West Indies pace attack was pummelled all over the park. Ireland won by four wickets and with more than four overs to spare. Their batting was marked by self-belief. In their minds , they never saw themselves as underdogs. And they never thought that the total of 304 was insurmountable. No wonder Ireland captain Will Porterfield displayed his consternation at the win being labelled " an upset " . Even Zimbabwe played with a blithe spirit , jangling South Africa 's customarily fragile nerves. Captain AB de Villiers ' team had slumped to four for 83 before being rescued by an unbeaten 256 partnership between David Miller and JP Duminy. Undaunted by the intimidating total , the minnows batted with abandon - at one point of time they were 191 for two with 17 overs to go. With Hamilton Masakadza and captain Brendan Taylor in full cry , 148 runs off 102 balls looked improbable but not impossible . Even towards the end , when Solomon Mire took Dale Steyn to the cleaners , hitting two fours and a six in one over , Zimbabwe made a statement of intent to every other team in Group B : we are no pushovers. This Zimbabwe team is a far cry from what it was during the glory of days of the Flower brothers. But their uninhibited approach made it a great game to watch till the very end . Co-hosts New Zealand have been on a roll and it was expected that the Black Caps will steamroll Scotland on Tuesday. The game looked like heading that way after the minnows were dismissed for 142. But few had reckoned that the home team would struggle to get to the mark . But for two dropped chances by Scotland , it might have been a much closer game. McCullum was floored on one with the score at 18 for one. He scored 15. Similarly , Corey Anderson was grassed on five. He was out on 11. In the context of a low-scoring contest , the misses were crucial. The Kiwis scraped through with three wickets to spare but the post-match dressing room talk would certainly be : every game needs to be taken seriously . Upsets are not unheard of in ODI World Cups. Kenya defeated the mighty West Indies in 1996 and Ireland shut down England in 2011. These are two of the most romantic tales of the championship but there other examples too. Yet in public perception , the world of cricket is divided between men and boys. For most , the difference between these two groups is as vast as BJP and AAP after the Delhi polls . But for three games in a row , the boys have gallantly fought against the men. And in this backdrop , ICC 's decision to restrict WC 2019 to 10 teams looks more stupid than ever . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
