World Cup 2015 : Misbah says Pakistan would n't mind facing India again The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 17 , 2015 , 09.54PM IST Misbah-ul-Haq , who has been captain of Pakistan since late 2010 after the infamous spot-fixing scandal , made it clear he was confident his team could beat Australia in the quarterfinals. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 KARACHI : Pakistan 's experienced captain Misbah-ul-Haq says his team would n't mind facing India in the semifinals if it progresses beyond the quarterfinals of the cricket World Cup . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 In an exclusive interview from Adelaide on Tuesday , Misbah said it will be another opportunity for them to try and break the jinx of not winning a match against their arch-rival in World Cup . " It will be another chance for us to go there with a positive frame of mind. We would take it like another opportunity for us to break the shackles as we have never won against India in the World Cup , " Misbah said . India beat Pakistan in their opening match of the ongoing mega event at Adelaide . " We just have to go in with a positive frame of mind and self-belief and do our best , " Misbah said . The 40-year-old Misbah , who has been captain of Pakistan since late 2010 after the infamous spot-fixing scandal in England , made it clear he was confident his team could beat Australia in the quarterfinals on Friday . " Even though we have lost Muhammad Irfan , which is a big blow to us , we can do it. If we can beat South Africa which is one of the finest sides than we can do it against Australia. He said regardless of Australia 's form it is all about performing on the day. " On the Indian team , Misbah said it had performed upto the expectations . " They are the defending champions and they know that that is the biggest motivation for them and they have been playing in Australia for last three months and preparing for this World Cup and that has helped them , " he said . " Obviously when you are the defending champions you got all the confidence in yourself and they are now quite an experienced team playing the last couple of years with the same squad and their captain Dhoni is also a very experienced campaigner . " They have performed upto expectations so far in this World Cup. " Misbah made it clear that his team had regained self belief after four wins on the trot . " I can tell you this team wants to win it for our people. I also want to do it because it is my last one-day tournament. This tournament has always been important for us because people have high expectations from us since we won the World Cup in Australia and New Zealand before and we want to do it for them. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
