World Cup 2015 : Misbah wants the team to move on The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 21 , 2015 , 09.23AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : " Come on guys , Misbah se seekho ( learn from Misbah ) , " Pakistan coach Waqar Younis shouted at a couple of his youngsters as they looked a little lackadaisical during fielding practice at the Hagley Oval. Waqar has a point - Misbah is an exception in this Pakistan line-up. He is a late bloomer , he is not as talented as some of the other players but invariably is the last man standing for Pakistan in crisis situations . The captain looked a little shy when he was asked to explain his mindset at the crunch. " That 's how you normally play the game , you do n't want to just give up those things which you are already doing well. It 's all about focusing , going there and doing the job , " Misbah said . But he knows it ca n't go on forever. The others , too , have to start performing and it has to start from the West Indies game. " I understand that all seven batsmen wo n't perform all the time. Only two or three have to score the runs for us to win games. We 'll be looking towards the guys who are not performing at the moment. We know that they are good enough players and we are hoping that they will come to the party , sooner than later. " The reference is towards the likes of Ahmed Shehzad and Umar Akmal , who have got a host of chances but have hardly made them count. Even during practice , Misbah was seen spending time with the younger lot , trying to tell them where they are going wrong. And when it 's Pakistan cricket , it 's not just the game that the captain has to take care of. For now , there 's the speculation of unrest in the team following some senior players ' alleged misbehavior with fielding coach Grant Luden . " How do you maintain such calm with so much happening around you ? " a journalist asked the captain. " I think it 's important that you know what you are doing right , " Misbah said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
