World Cup 2015 : England crush Scotland by 119 runs to taste first win The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Feb 23 , 2015 , 11.09AM IST The England team leaves the field after defeating Scotland by 119 runs in the Cricket World Cup match in Christchurch. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : England completed a clinical 119-run victory over Scotland in their cricket World Cup Pool A match at Hagley Oval on Monday to record their first win in the tournament . Scorecard After they were crushed in their opening games by co-hosts Australia and New Zealand , England posted 303 for eight after being asked to bat then dismissed Scotland for 184 from 47.2 overs on a day which began under dark clouds and concluded in bright sunshine . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Moeen Ali ( 128 ) produced a stream of delightful drives to reach his second one-day international century and shared a 172-run opening partnership with Ian Bell ( 54 ) to give England a grip on that match they were never to relinquish . Although wickets fell regularly after their departures , captain Eoin Morgan at last found some form to strike 46 with four boundaries and two sixes and guide his team past the 300 mark . Left-hander Ali was in prime form from the outset , driving the ball fluently through the off-side and punishing any short-pitched deliveries with some booming pulls . He reached his century from 91 deliveries with his fourth six of the innings , lofting off-spinner Majid Haq high over mid-wicket . Bell , who had been content to rotate the strike to give Ali the bowling , fell in the following over when he pushed a simple catch to Kyle Coetzer at cover from the bowling of Richie Berrington . Ali pulled a fifth six into the crowd but then lofted Haq straight to Freddie Coleman at long-on . After the interval , England 's pace attack , which had been slaughtered by New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum in Wellington last Friday , took control . Opener Kyle Coetzer took two boundaries off James Anderson 's opening over and continued to drive and cut confidently to reach his half-century off 64 balls . Runs dried up at the other end against disciplined bowling and his dismissal for 71 with 11 boundaries was the beginning of the end . Ali took two for 47 from 10 overs , bowling in tandem with another occasional off-spinner Joe Root , as the wickets fell and the required run rate rose . Finn , who was smashed for 49 from two overs in the humiliating loss to New Zealand last Friday , returned to help clean up the tail. He finished with three for 26 from nine overs . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
