READ ALSO : PCB to ask Moin to resign : Sources Appearing visibly shaken and tense , Moin avoided a group of youngsters who had gathered outside the terminal building and raised slogans against him and also had brought eggs to pelt him . One youngster when learnt that Moin had left the airport broke eggs on his own head. ( AP Photo ) PCB Chairman , Shaharyar Khan told reporters in Lahore that he would be meeting with Moin soon to find out his version and why he went to the Casino . Moin who has held key positions in the board since last year on Wednesday publicly apologised for his actions and said while he had gone to only have dinner with some friends at the Casino but it was a bad error of judgment on his part . " I just went there to have some food but in hindsight it was a bad decision and I regret it now. But everyone knows my career and I will be giving my version to the board soon , " Moin told Samaa Channel . " The PCB has called me back and I respect their decision but I never knew my actions would have such serious repercussions , " Moin added . The former wicketkeeper-batsman 's motive of visiting the Casino and his past has been attacked by some channels and former Test players such as Sarfaraz Nawaz , Abdul Qadir and Shahid Nazir . While Nawaz on Thursday called for him to be blacklisted from Pakistan cricket Nazir said that the PCB should hold a judicial inquiry to find out the truth behind Moin going to the Casino . " The PCB should have a full scale inquiry. Moin was a great player but a failure in administration and as selector , " Nazir said . A sessions court in Lahore also ordered the Station House Officer of Islampura police station to submit a report whether action would be taken against Moin on legal grounds after an advocate submitted a petition in the court seeking action against the former captain . Pakistan 's former captain , Aamir Sohail said that Moin had chosen the wrong time to visit the Casino and was paying the price for his blunder . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
