Phillip Hughes ' Bronze Plaque Unveiled at SCG Phillip Hughes ' Bronze Plaque Unveiled at SCG Phillip Hughes was fatally struck by a bouncer at the Sydney Cricket Ground last month. Players from both teams - India and Australia - paid tribute to the fallen batsman . Last updated on Wednesday , 07 January , 2015 00 : 03 IST Total Shares Phillip Hughes ' bronze plaque at SCG . © AFP A plaque of late batsman Phillip Hughes was unveiled at the Members ' stand of the Sydney Cricket Ground ( SCG ) on Tuesday to commemorate the much-loved 25-year-old Australian cricketer. ( Michael Clarke leads emotional tribute for Phillip Hughes ) Hughes was hit by a vicious bouncer during a domestic match at the SCG on November 25. He succumbed to the injuries two days later , sending the entire cricket community into mourning. ( David Warner kisses SCG turf after reached 63 Not out , smashes emotional ton ) Australia began their concluding Test of a four-match series against India on Tuesday. It was the first time Australia were playing at the fated venue and the occasion was marked by placing a plaque just outside the home team 's dressing room. ( SCG Test Day 1 Highlights ) Injured regular captain Michael Clarke along with the home team paid a visit to the plaque. Stand-in skipper Steve Smith appreciated the gesture . " I think it 's great. We 've just to make sure we 're very respectful to the Hughes family that are going to be down here for this Test match. I think that 's very important to us and very important to them , " he said . " Hughesy was one of us , he was a good mate. To be able to walk past that and see the little fella. It 'll give us some inspiration as we 're going out on the field. " Opener David Warner touched it before walking in to bat on Tuesday . " I know when I go to face up at that Randwick End I 'm going to be looking down at that spot.It 's going to be tough but I 've got to try and hold back the emotions and do what I do for the team and try and score runs , " Warner said . " But every time I come here , every time I walk out on the field , every time I 've got nothing on my mind I 'm going to be thinking about it. " Hughes was batting on 63 when he was struck by the ill-fated ball on that day . Warner paid respect to Hughes by kneeling down and kissing the spot of the crease where he fell , before looking heavenwards , when he reached the score of 63 on Tuesday . Warner eventually went on to score his 12th Test century ( 101 ) and helped his team post a commanding 348 for two at stumps on day one . Story first published on : Tuesday , 06 January 2015 14 : 22 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
