READ ALSO : PCB investigating Moin issue in detail " Shaharyar wants to hear what Moin has to say about the incident and then talk to him about the inquiry conducted by the board into it , " the source said . Shaharyar has made it clear that a full-scale inquiry is being conducted into Moin 's visit to the Casino and termed his action as " inappropriate " . Pakistan have so far lost both their matches in the ongoing World Cup , going down to arch foes India and the West Indies over the past couple of weeks . " Moin has said that he went there to have dinner but that is his statement. According to our information there is more to this incident and we are investigating that in detail , " Shaharyar had said . Moin , 43 , returned home to an angry reception on Thursday after being called back from the World Cup. On his return , a group of angry fans were outside the Karachi airport with banners and eggs , while later irate fans also demonstrated outside his residence . Moin had to request the Karachi police for provision of security outside his home . The source said the media reports that the PCB had decided not to take any further action against Moin were not correct . " It is not correct since how can we decide on this without the Chairman not having had the chance to listen to Moin and talk to him , " the source said . The source disclosed that the Casino episode had also widened the tussle between Shaharyar and his predecessor , Najam Sethi who was still in the board as Chairman of the executive committee and a member of the Board of Governors . " It is no secret that Sethi had decided to send Moin to the World Cup with the team as chief selector despite resistance from other members. And it is no secret that he did n't favour the decision to call Moin back from Australia and New Zealand , " the source added . He also said that Shaharyar had got a detailed briefing on the activities of every member of the team and Moin since they landed in New Zealand in January . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
