World Cup 2015 : Moores 'desperate ' to stay England coach The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 9 , 2015 , 08.46PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE ( Australia ) : England coach Peter Moores hopes to remain in the job despite his team being knocked out in the first round of the World Cup after a 15-run defeat to Bangladesh in Adelaide on Monday . England lost four of their five matches in Pool A and now face a dead tie against Afghanistan in Sydney on Friday before flying home . " I want to carry on desperately , " said Moores when asked if he was enjoying the job and wanted to continue in it . He indicated it was up to the England and Wales Cricket Board to decide his future . " It 's certainly not my decision. I hope I will stay , " he said. " I am here to try and make a difference. We have a lot of work to do in one-day cricket , there is no doubt about that . " We have not played well enough in this tournament all the way through. That 's something we have to look at. " England , chasing Bangladesh 's 275 for seven in the must-win tie , were dismissed for 260 in the penultimate over . Moores said he was disappointed at the loss because the target of 276 was gettable on the good batting wicket at the Adelaide Oval . " It 's a game we felt we should have won , " he said. " We should have chased 275 and we did not do it. We have to take that on the chin. " Moores hoped Eoin Morgan will continue as the one-day captain despite the early World Cup ouster . Morgan was out for a third-ball nought on Monday -- his fifth duck in his last 11 ODI innings . " I think Eoin is a fine one-day cricketer , " the coach said. " He has had a tough start as a captain but I think he 's got real potential as a captain . " But ultimately it is going to be about making decisions of how we are moving forward and what we 're going to do. " " We make no excuses. I think the players know what they need to do , but they have not always done that. We 've paid the penalty by being out of the tournament. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
