World Cup 2015 : Morgan not embarrassed by New Zealand rout The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 20 , 2015 , 01.37PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 WELLINGTON : Under-fire England captain Eoin Morgan said his side were " disappointed " rather than " embarrassed " by New Zealand during an eight-wicket World Cup thumping in Wellington on Friday . New Zealand cemented their status as one of the favourites for a maiden World Cup title as they made short shrift of a hapless England . Tim Southee took a New Zealand one-day international best of seven for 33 before Brendon McCullum 's punishing 25-ball 77 sealed victory , with the Westpac Stadium match lasting just 45.4 overs in total . Victory gave New Zealand their third straight win in as many Pool A games while England were left with two defeats in two after their 111-run thumping by Australia , the other co-hosts . Asked whether Friday 's loss was embarrassing or shocking , a surprisingly calm Morgan replied : " Disappointing more than anything. The way New Zealand bowled , they built some pressure and we could n't cope with it. " England were staging something of a revival at 104 for when Joe Root ( 46 ) and Morgan ( 17 ) were at the crease but Southee 's second spell of five for 10 in 18 balls saw them dismissed for just 123 in 33.2 overs . Morgan holed out to veteran spinner Daniel Vettori but the left-hander defended his choice of stroke by saying : " We kept trying to put the pressure on their bowlers and looking back , I still would have played that aggressive shot because at the time we needed to take the game continually to them because they were gaining control. " As for Southee 's return , Morgan said : " I actually did n't face him but it looked pretty difficult. When he can turn it over in the fashion that he did , you know , credit to him. " New Zealand captain McCullum then completed England 's humiliation by hitting the fastest World Cup fifty , off just 18 balls , on his way to a blistering 77 . However , Morgan reiterated his belief that England had been given an especially tough start to the World Cup . " We knew these first two games were going to be difficult games playing in these conditions. But we should n't be beaten by this much. We were way below par. " " We are not doing the basics right and not producing what we practice. " However , the former Ireland international added : " We can still make the quarter-finals , as soon as we start winning and getting into the next game. " Morgan , whose side next play non-Test border rivals Scotland in Christchurch on Monday , insisted England would n't push the panic button after two huge defeats . " Certainly you do n't want to get into a state of panic where we make three or four changes in one day , " he said . " That 's certainly not what I 'm about. I believe at the moment that any of our players can play. The players that played today I believe were the best to win today , and on given conditions , we 'll change plans accordingly . " But , again , just because we were there for them today does n't necessarily mean anything. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
