Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Dhoni made a shock retirement from Test cricket in December after the third Test of the four-match series against Australia , with the decision being announced by the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) through a media release . In the immediate aftermath of Thursday 's loss , Dhoni had suggested he would continue to play international cricket at least until the 2016 World Twenty20 tournament which is being played in India . " I 'm 33 , I 'm still running , still fit. Next year , T20 World Cup , will be time to decide about the 2019 World Cup , " Dhoni told a TV interviewer . However , Dhoni was unsure if coach Duncan Fletcher , whose three-year contract is due to end after the World Cup , will remain or leave the job. " " That is between the BCCI and Duncan , " he said. " I do n't know what will happen . " Duncan 's technical knowledge of the game is excellent. I really enjoy his company. He took over at a time when senior players had left and he had to groom the juniors. It was a tough job. " Meanwhile , Dhoni praised his team for a good World Cup campaign despite being knocked out of the tournament . Dhoni 's team had bounced back from a winless Test and one-day tour of Australia prior to the World Cup to reach the last four with seven straight victories . But they found Australia too strong at the SCG as the hosts piled up 328 for seven before bowling out the defending champions for 233 despite a run-a-ball 65 from Dhoni . " Before the World Cup we faced a lot of problems because of the poor form of the players. It seemed nothing was going our way , " Dhoni said . " But the good thing is that the dressing room atmosphere was very pleasant and that made our comeback easier . " Of course we are disappointed not to be in the final , but then only one team can win. Australia played better cricket today. " Dhoni said the 300-plus target could have been chased if India had wickets in hand , but the Australian fast bowlers seized the initiative with wickets at regular intervals . " I think the total was chaseable because I expected the wicket to get slightly better for batting in the second half. And our batsmen know how to chase 300 . " But hard work was needed to get those runs. Anyway , once three wickets had fallen , I knew we were not going to get there. " Dhoni said failure to defend the title India won under his captaincy in 2011 was part of the game . " The Cup did not belong to us , " he said. " We took it from someone and someone else will take it from us. If we had played better cricket on this particular day , we would have won. " Dhoni declined to predict the winner of Sunday 's final between the two co-hosts Australia and New Zealand at the Melbourne Cricket Ground . " The shorter format is all about how you play on the day , " he said. " The only things New Zealand will need to consider are the bigger outfield and the two-paced pitch at the MCG . " Both teams have played well and deserve to be in the final. Hopefully I will reach home in time and enjoy the final on TV. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
