As it happened | Scorecard | Points Table But unlike their two opening wins at the tournament which yielded totals of 300 and over against Pakistan and South Africa , Saturday gave India 's bowlers the chance to make decisive contributions against a UAE side who won the toss and chose to bat . READ ALSO : India thump UAE by 9 wickets to register third successive win " The bowlers have really stepped up and this has led to improvements in other parts of the side , " said Dhoni . " When we were losing games outside the sub-continent it was a concern and we could n't get wickets in the middle overs , " he added . " Now we are getting wickets with the new ball and the spinners are able to put more pressure on in the middle overs. As a unit they are doing well. They have shown they can do it game after game. " Ravichandran Ashwin took a career best of four for 25 with fellow spinner Ravindra Jadeja claiming two wickets . Ashwin said he was delighted to have his moment in the spotlight after his team 's batmen had ran riot in the first two games , with Virat Kohli and Shikhar Dhawan making centuries against Pakistan and South Africa respectively . India hardly broke sweat at Perth as they cruised past United Arab Emirates by nine wickets. ( Reuters Photo ) Suresh Raina and Dhawan also hit half-centuries against Pakistan while Ajinkya Rahane went past the 50 mark against South Africa . In a reminder of the team 's batting strength , Saturday saw opener Rohit Sharma make an undefeated fifty . " I usually bowl at phases of the game when you are trying to buy wickets or cut the runs down but today went well , " said Ashwin . " I am an attacking bowler but when it comes to this format I am unselfish. It does n't matter about the numbers as long as I contribute. " UAE skipper Mohammad Tauqir had seen his team lose two close games to Zimbabwe and Ireland but on Saturday they were simply outclassed by the champions with only Shaiman Anwar , who hit a century against the Irish , showing any resistance with a tidy 35 before being last man out . " It was not a par score , we were outplayed by the Indian bowling , " said Tauqir . " We should have scored 200-plus but Ashwin bowled brilliantly and we could n't cope. Our top order need to be more responsible. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
