World Cup 2015 : Never too far from BCCI polls The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 3 , 2015 , 09.28AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 The distance between Napier and Chennai may be close to 12,000km but the BCCI elections seemed to have bridged that gulf with ease. A group of Indian journalists were obviously following the developments but when they met the Pakistani media contingent in the evening by the Pacific Ocean , the first question asked was : " Bhai kya hua BCCI mein ( What happened in the BCCI ) ? " It was n't too long before an UAE official , Majhar Khan , walked up to the Indian group and asked : " What happened to Srinivasan ? " When told that Jagmohan Dalmiya had become the president , he got really excited. " You know , before the Asian Cricket Council was formed , we formed the Asian Cricket Federation in Sharjah and Jagguda was one of the main guys behind that project. Many years have gone by and I feel so happy he is back as the president , " Khan said , adding that he would immediately go and congratulate Dalmiya . Khan was even more excited because he felt that this might facilitate India 's return to UAE for the proposed series against Pakistan in December. " We are all hoping that India-Pakistan cricket returns to UAE. It will be great to have it when Dalmiya is the president. " PAKISTAN 'S PACIFIC GET-TOGETHER If you are planning to eat out in Napier , it 's virtually impossible not to bump into known faces. Mudassar Nazar and Aaqib Javed were chilling out at a roadside pub in the evening. Younis Khan , who had just arrived for Thursday 's match , was seen walking around searching for a restaurant for dinner. The moment Aaqib and Mudassar met Younis , it seemed like an old boys ' party . The fact that they are in enemy camps seemed forgotten and they started talking cricket. It was n't long before the Pakistani media manager too joined in and it all became a wonderful get-together . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
