World Cup 2015 : New rules , old problems for India The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 21 , 2015 , 08.59AM IST Dhoni plays a shot during a practice session at Junction Oval Cricket Ground in Melbourne. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : On Sunday , the Indians will take on a strong South African team in tough conditions and under rules that could favour the rivals. Their two wins came against Asian teams - Afghanistan in a warm-up match and Pakistan in the opening World Cup game. They failed to beat the home team in four Test matches and two ODIs and lost to England in both the Tri-series games . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 They have been able to overcome the conditions , fatigue , home sickness and low morale quite well before the start of the World Cup , but they still have to come to terms with some of the rules that are being implemented for the first time in the World Cup - use of two new balls ( from either end ) during an innings and the restriction of having only four fielders outside the circle . These rules are to the advantage of the teams that have big hitters and good fast bowlers. The teams that rely on spinners and medium pacers are bound to suffer . Looking at the first few matches of this World Cup , the striking bit is that many teams have been able to cross the 300-mark quite comfortably. India , too , got to 300 against Pakistan and put them under tremendous pressure. Given this trend , it is going to be very tough for India to contain the mighty South African batting line-up under the new rules. As India rely a lot on spinners , the rule of having just four fielders outside the ring is a huge disadvantage for them . Skipper MS Dhoni has repeatedly referred to this rule on the tour saying it is difficult for the spinners to add variety. " Look , with just four fielders patrolling the boundaries , it becomes difficult for all bowlers , particularly the spinners , as they can be carted into open areas easily. The only option for the spinners is to pack one side of the field and bowl to that particular line. But it is easier said than done. In such a scenario it is imperative to keep taking wickets at regular intervals. The lesser wickets the batting team has in hands during the last 10 overs , their better the chance to restrict their score , " the Indian captain had said . There is little doubt that the new field restrictions , the two new balls and the meaty bats have tilted the balance in favour of the batsmen. As seen recently , South Africa stunned the cricket world when they took the West Indies apart in the match at Jo'burg , where their skipper AB de Villiers zoomed to a century in mere 31 balls and the team notched up a huge total of 439 for two. Such an eventually must be giving the Indian team nightmares , as they sit down to put a plan in place to keep the hardhitting South African batting line-up in check on Sunday. If South Africa bat first and post a total in excess of 300 , it will make Indian batsmen 's job tough . Though the battle has been termed as India 's batting vs Proteas ' bowling , there is little doubt that the outcome would hinge on how well Indian bowlers bowl to the SA batsmen , especially spinners R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja. That could be the deciding factor. If they are able to pick up wickets before the advent of the batting Powerplay by the 36th over , India would still have the chance to restrict the mighty South African batting. Otherwise , the rivals will run away with the match . NEW ODI RULES Four fielders outside the 30-yard circle during the entire innings Only two fielders outside the circle in the first 10 overs Three fielders outside the circle during batting Powerplay Two new balls for the bowling side Two bouncers per over WHAT WORKS FOR INDIA 4 fielders outside 30-yard circle during non-powerplay overs : Two aspects favour India in this department. A batting order running up to No. 8 and ability of young players like Suresh Raina , Ambati Rayudu and Ajinkya Rahane to go on the offensive.Also , India 's part-time bowlers may make it difficult for SA to score boundaries at the spread out MCG. Only two fielders outside the circle in first 10 overs : With Shikhar Dhawan finding his touch , both teams walk in with the advantage of a positive start to their innings . WHAT DOES N'T WORK FOR INDIA Two new balls and two bouncers per over : With a fitter Morne Morkel partnering Vernon Philander at the helm of the pace attack and Dale Steyn to follow , the two new ball rule will help SA more . Two bouncers per over : With Philander , Morkel , Steyn , Behardien and Parnell all capable of pitching it short , India will have to practice ducking . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
