News India vs Australia 4th Test , Day 2 Highlights : Rohit Sharma , Lokesh Rahul Lead India Recovery After Murali Vijay Duck India vs Australia 4th Test , Day 2 Highlights : Rohit Sharma , Lokesh Rahul Lead India Recovery After Murali Vijay Duck India were in trouble after losing Murali Vijay for a duck but Lokesh Rahul and Rohit Sharma batted brilliantly to help India to 71/1 , still trailing Australia ( 572/7d ) by 501 runs.. Catch all the highlights here . Last updated on Wednesday , 07 January , 2015 15 : 26 IST Total Shares Australia 's top six crossed half-centuries on a flat pitch at the SCG , to post a massive 572/7 declared. However , India despite losing Murali Vijay for a duck , responded well. Day 3 of the fourth Test should be a cracker. Catch all highlights here : ( SCORECARD | Highlights ) ( Day 2 Report ) 12 : 12 PM IST : Stumps and India are 71/1 , trailing Australia by 501 runs. This has been a great show so far by Rahul and Rohit Sharma , two men who would have been under pressure to make an impact at the top. While Rohit was dropped after the first two matches , Rahul had a poor debut at the MCG. It should be an interesting session of play tomorrow. Till , then take care ! 12 : 09 PM IST : Rahul has shown great technique and even in the last over of the day , he is aware enough to swing away quickly from a brute of a Starc delivery . 11 : 45 AM IST : Rohit and Rahul came together with India 0/1 after Vijay was dismissed off the third ball. They added 50 for the second wicket playing some elegant shots against top quality bowlers. And both men would have been under pressure to show their true mettle . 11 : 43 AM IST : Rahul is impressing with every minute he spends at the crease. He has been quick on the feet , come forward to defend and rocked back to cut . Rahul swings away from a bouncer on Day 2 at the SCG . © AP 11 : 41 AM IST : As many as 25,353 people have turned out on Day 2 - staggering numbers for a weekday. And they sure have got their money 's worth , with batsmen from both sides playing some lovely shots . 11.27 AM IST : FOUR ! Good shot by Rahul as he pulls a short one from Hazlewood to the fence - that was a very stylish shot from a stylish player . 11 : 24 AM IST : SIX ! Rohit is looking really good here and has not been afraid to take Lyon on. India 35/1 off 14 overs . Vijay walks out after bagging a duck in his first innings of 2015 © AP 11 : 20 AM IST : Rahul is really starting to impress now. After playing two forgettable shots to get out on debut at the MCG , the 22-year-old has shown a lot of composure. He has defended well , shown good resilience and technique against the off-spinner Lyon . 11 : 14 AM IST : Meanwhile , it 's a flood of Richies ( Benaud ) at the SCG today. The fans have come dressed up like the iconic Aussie cricketer and commentator and the TV cameras have not seemed to have enough of them. Joining the enthusiastic lot is Glenn McGrath . WATCH : @ glennmcgrath11 joins The Richies at the @ scg , with a guest appearance from @ 12thManHQ : http : //t.co/59MZiv7QdX pic.twitter.com/rR8qvMX11y — cricket.com.au ( @ CricketAus ) January 7 , 2015 11 : 09 AM IST : SIX ! Rohit is growing in confidence. Nathan Lyon in the attack and Rohit has stepped down the track straightway to show who 's boss . 11 : 06 AM IST : India are 17/1 after conceding 572 to Australia but there are some good signs beginning to show. For one , Rahul has played with a straight bat and endured a tough opening spell from the Australian seamers. And , Rohit has looked to leave balls outside the off-stump . 10 : 58 AM IST : This is the same pitch where India 's bowlers were struggling to create any purchase. But Mitch Starc seems to generating plenty of pace and bounce. Where is that coming from ? Safe to say the Indian bowling is just not competent enough ? 10 : 47 AM IST : Starc 's antics have not gone down well with the Indian camp. He was accused of being soft by Shane Warne not long ago and maybe the young seamer wanted to prove a point . Is Mitchell Starc playing to the commentary box by showing he can be " aggressive " too ? — Harsha Bhogle ( @ bhogleharsha ) January 7 , 2015 10 : 44 AM IST : David Warner had spoken of not giving sendoffs to departing batsmen but Mitch Starc was clearly not listening to his senior teammate. At least his celebrations after dismissing Vijay did not suggest that . 10 : 32 AM IST : WICKET ! Vijay has played a tired shot at Starc and edged it to Haddin behind the stumps. Disaster for India. Rohit Sharma , the new No. 3 has walked in to bat with Lokesh Rahul. Two men under lot of pressure . Mitch might have enjoyed that one... LIVE : http : //t.co/gf5oOkWupd # AUSvIND pic.twitter.com/PdJh4d9pcc — cricket.com.au ( @ CricketAus ) January 7 , 2015 10 : 29 AM IST : Murali Vijay is out in the park with new opening partner Lokesh Rahul. Mitchell Starc has the new ball in hand . 10 : 21 AM IST : WICKET ! Harris falls to Shami for a quickfire 25. That is a fifer for Shami , his second in Test cricket. Australia have declared on 572/7. India 's batsmen have their tasks cut out now . 10 : 16 AM IST : Ryan Harris has come out all guns blazing as Australia race away to 569/6. The Australian dressing-room is thrilled - David Warner is leading the cheer . 10 : 08 AM IST : WICKET ! India strike in the second over after tea. Shami gets his fourth wicket after Burns looked to clear the rope. Good catch by by Rahul ran down from mid on to complete a good catch. Australia are 546/6 . Burns played well to score his maiden fifty in Test cricket . © AFP — cricket.com.au ( @ CricketAus ) January 7 , 2015 9 : 32 AM IST : Kohli and Haddin had a staring contest as the latter walked in to the pitch. Haddin 's answer : a cracking SIX ! off Shami , India 's highest wickettaker in the innings with three scalps. It 's all heating up at the SCG . 9 : 26 AM IST : Fifty for Joe Burns , his maiden in Test cricket. All six top order batsmen have scored fifties. Hard work for India . The top six batsmen have now scored 50 + , the first time ever for Australia. LIVE : http : //t.co/gf5oOkWupd # AUSvIND pic.twitter.com/zzUhpKycy1 — cricket.com.au ( @ CricketAus ) January 7 , 2015 9 : 20 AM IST : Another 100-run partnership , between Marsh and Burns this time. India have toiled away but all to futility . 9 : 10 AM IST : Australia bring up 500 for the fourth time in the series. This has been very poor bowling by India on a flat pitch. However , the surfaces have been too batting friendly and India have also scored plenty of runs in these Test matches . Marsh played another solid innings to drive Australia 's lower order . © AFP 9 : 05 AM IST : India will do well to learn some lessons - a nervous Lkesh Rahul dropped Chris Rogers and he replied with 95. Marsh was dropped by Vijay today and he is well past his third Test fifty. Both the Indian openers have a lot to make up for after dropping two very talented opposition batsmen . 9 : 01 AM IST : Australia are 488/4 after 140 overs. Marsh and Burns are piling on the heat here. Can India 's batsmen come out and do as well to ensure they do not lose this Test ? A declaration should be around the corner . 8 : 41 AM IST : Fifty for Shaun Marsh , his second on the trot and third overall as Australia reach 486/4 in the second session on Day 2 . Another # ohwhatafeeling moment at the SCG as Shaun Marsh brings up his half-century https : //t.co/Ol81NnjpUO — cricket.com.au ( @ CricketAus ) January 7 , 2015 8 : 40 AM IST : Raina is getting some turn from the surface too. Things could get worrying for India , who are already staring at a massive first innings total from the Australians. They have off-spinner Nathan Lyon in their ranks besides Smith , who can bowl useful leg-spinners . 8 : 36 AM IST : Marsh is nearing his second successive half-century and he has now more or less assured himself of a spot in the Test side for the next few games. This has been a composed knock by the left-handed batsman , especially after looking a little disoriented in the first session . 8 : 23 AM IST : This is an important innings for Joe Burns , who did not make much of an impression on debut at the MCG. Here is his chance to show some class and up against an ordinary bowling attack , the rookie batsman has done well so far . 8 : 17 AM IST : Australia are stretching their advantage now. Marsh and Burns have overcome whatever nerves they had before lunch and are batting really well on the flat deck at the SCG. Kohli is at a clear loss for ideas . 7 : 57 AM IST : FOUR ! Poor bowling by Suresh Raina as he lands way outside off stump and Burns smashes it to the fence. Australia are 445/4 with another nice partnership building up . 7 : 54 AM IST : Australia have been extremely dominant in this match. The opening wicket put on 200 and the third wicket added another 196. This is only the second time in 84 years that two of Australia 's first three wickets have stitched 175 + each . 7 : 49 AM IST : Shaun Marsh and Joe Burns were under a bit of pressure before the break. They will now need to stamp their authority on the Indian attack , much like the four batsmen before them had done . India did well to pick up two key wickets late in the first session . © AP 7 : 26 AM IST : Meanwhile , Cricket Australia are trying to ensure their players do not involve themselves in a sledging contest with India . — Wide World of Sports ( @ WWOS9 ) January 7 , 2015 David Warner and Mitchell Starc were seen helping their partners before the catching contest . — Lisa Sthalekar ( @ sthalekar93 ) January 7 , 2015 7 : 02 AM IST : Lunch has been taken with Australia 420/4. India did a better job with the ball this morning , conceding 72 runs and picking up the wickets of Smith and Watson in the first session. Australia have two nervous batsmen Shaun Marsh and Joe Burns , who will resume after lunch . 6 : 56 AM IST : Ashwin is troubling the Aussies now - an appeal against Joe Burns turned down by the umpire but the close-in fielders are in play . 6 : 44 AM IST : Ashwin was bowling to Shaun Marsh with a packed close-in field. And he created a chance only to see Vijay DROP it at gully. India , however , are at least attacking now . 6 : 41 AM IST : WICKET ! Umesh Yadav has struck. Steve Smith was looking set for a few more runs but he got the Australian captain to edge one to Saha. Smith departs for 117 and Australia are 415/4 . 6 : 24 AM IST : This has been an emotional Test match for the Aussies , who are playing at the SCG for the first time since Hughes ' death. Like Warner did yesterday , Smith looked up at the sky towards their little mate. The players have been very subtle in their emotions , careful not to overdo it. Some of the tributes the players have paid , have been touching . An emotional Smith is hugged by Watson after the former 's hundred . © AFP 6 : 18 AM IST : WICKET ! At last , some joy for India. Well bowled by Shami , who had built up the pressure. Watson picks up Ashwin at deep midwicket and falls for 81. That was a hundred for the taking and he would be very disappointed. Australia are 400/3 . 6 : 15 AM IST : From Gavaskar to Manjrekar to Bhogle to Ganguly - they are all frustrated with the Indian bowlers failing to bowl to their fields. Australia should have been put under some pressure but instead the overnight duo of Smith and Watson were allowed to settle down as the hosts brought up 400 in their innings. India are in for another long day . 6 : 05 AM IST : Smith has coped well with the captaincy , scoring hundreds for fun. He now joins the likes of Bradman , Harvey , Fingleton and Hayden as only the fifth Australian batsman to have made 100s in four or more consecutive Tests. Talk of a dream series . 6 : 01 AM IST : What an incredible batting performance this has been. Openers Warner and Rogers added 200 before being separated in a matter of four runs. Then in walked Watson and Smith , who have now added 192 for the third wicket and still going strong. India 's bowlers continue to be tormented . Smith has a hundred in each of the four Tests this series . © AP 5 : 44 AM IST : Hundred for Steve Smith. Umesh Yadav bowls a full toss on the knee with Smith on 98 and he was only too glad to put it away to the fence. This is Smith 's 8th hundred and fourth in succession as Australia power on to 383/2. He is not the second batsman to score a hundred in each Test of a four-match series . 'You ca n't stop him , you can only hope to contain him ' LIVE : http : //t.co/gf5oOkWupd # AUSvIND pic.twitter.com/zHVyYylRUC — cricket.com.au ( @ CricketAus ) January 7 , 2015 5 : 40 AM IST : After building some pressure over the first four overs , India have let it all slip away again. Smith has moved on to 98 and Watson has looked increasingly comfortable. Kohli looks far from impressed with his bowlers , who refuse to bowl to a plan . 5 : 31 AM IST : FOUR ! Smith rocks on the backfoot and dismisses that Yadav delivery from his presence. The captain is now on 95 and one short away from another well deserved hundred . Kohli continues to be let down by his bowlers on Day 2 . © AP 5 : 24 AM IST : Another poor ball from Shami and another boundary for Smith , who has moved into the 90s. Australia have regained their momentum . 5 : 22 AM IST : FOUR ! Shami drifts on the pads after two very good overs. " It 's tear your hair time for India fans " , yells Harsha Bhogle on air as Smith creams that one off his pads. Poor cricket from India . 5 : 17 AM IST : India 's bowlers have looked much better this morning - just five runs have been conceded in the four overs bowled so far. The tourists have at least tried to build up some pressure. Now Saha , the wicketkeeper has come up to Kumar , a good move considering there is no movement off the deck . 5 : 14 AM IST : That was a moment. Shami pitches it just short of the length and hit Watson on the helmet - he took his eye off the rising ball but took off for a legbye. Nothing alarming there even though there was a dazed silence around the ground . Watson now 64 * after this short ball from Shami. Partnership with Smith now 151 : http : //t.co/gf5oOkWupd # AUSvIND pic.twitter.com/kR2NdZ7JPV — cricket.com.au ( @ CricketAus ) January 6 , 2015 5 : 10 AM IST : There is no swing in the air. What can the Indians do with the new ball here today ? Kumar and Shami have started proceedings for India on a pitch that remains as unresponsive to bowlers as it was yesterday . Day 2 at Syd Pink Test & @ glennmcgrath11 @ McGrathFdn meet 300 Richie Benaud 's & they manage to get him in a wig !  pic.twitter.com/PAJvaXmYI5 — Tracy Bevan ( @ tracybevan12 ) January 6 , 2015 5 : 07 AM IST : Shane Watson pushes Shami for a single to score the first run of the morning before Smith steals another single as Australia bring up 350 of their innings. Sunil Gavaskar says it is still a good batting pitch. Beware India ! Steve Smith raises his bat after reaching fifty vs India in Sydney . © AFP David Warner 's 12th Test century and a bittersweet 95 from Chris Rogers put Australia on course for a huge total on an emotional first day in Sydney on Tuesday. Warner smashed 101 off just 114 balls while Rogers fell five short of a hundred as the Australian pair put on an even 200 for the opening wicket at the SCG. ( Day 1 Highlights ) Both were dismissed after lunch but new captain Steve Smith ( 81 not out ) and Shane Watson ( 56 not out ) ensured the hosts maintained their momentum with an unbroken third-wicket stand of 144 to take Australia to 348 for two at stumps. ( Emotional Warner Smashes Ton ) Although Australia have already secured the Border-Gavaskar Trophy after wins in Adelaide and Brisbane , emotions were heightened for the final match because it is being played at the same ground where former team mate Phillip Hughes was fatally injured six weeks ago. ( Warner 's Touching Tribute to Hughes ) The death of the 25-year-old Hughes , who was struck by a short delivery in a first class match in late November , has hung over the entire series but has been brought to the fore in the New South Wales state capital. ( Hughes Bronze Plaque Unveiled ) Cricket Australia unveiled a memorial plaque outside the home side 's dressing room on Monday , while both teams paid tribute to the left-hander before the game began on Tuesday. ( No Place for Yuvraj in World Cup Squad ) Shane Watson pulls a ball during his innings vs India in Sydney . © AP Regular captain Michael Clarke , who tore a hamstring in the first test and is fighting to be fit for the upcoming World Cup , paid his own tribute to Hughes before the match. " This is where he played his last game , this is where his spirit will live forever , " Clarke told the Nine Network. ( Clarke Leads Emotional Tribute ) Rogers and Warner did exactly that after Smith , Clarke 's replacement as skipper , won the toss and chose to bat on a flat pitch offering little assistance to the Indian bowlers. ( Day 1 Report ) India 's bowling looked stingless and the slip catching left a lot to be desired. In his first Test as official captain of India , Virat Kohli will look for a better show on Wednesday. ( Full Coverage ) Story first published on : Tuesday , 06 January 2015 23 : 27 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
