World Cup 2015 : New Zealand not lucky for India ? The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 25 , 2015 , 10.25AM IST Auckland has a huge Indian population but the die-hard fans are hoping that the Men in Blue do n't end up playing the knock-out game here. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 Cricket matches being sold out four days in advance is a rarity in New Zealand. But that 's exactly what has happened for the Eden Park clash between Australia and New Zealand on February 28 . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 There 's a huge anticipation around the game ; 'Come on Black Caps ' is the catch phrase wherever you go. This game is likely to decide the winner of Group A and there 's an added incentive - the winner of this game may end up avoiding India in the semifinals . After stunning wins in the first two games , India are suddenly being seen as one of the favorites and the belief that 's gaining ground is that Dhoni 's boys will top Group B , beat England or Bangladesh in the quarterfinals and will play the second-placed team of Group A in the semifinals . The first semifinal on March 24 is at Eden Park while the second is at Sydney Cricket Ground two days later. Auckland has a huge Indian population but the die-hard fans are hoping that the Men in Blue do n't end up playing the knock-out game here. " New Zealand is not good for India. They struggle here. India did n't win a single game in New Zealand last year. And these New Zealand players know how to use these short , straight boundaries at Eden Park , " Sandeep Verma , an Auckland taxi driver , said while driving down to the ground . India , however , tied an ODI in Auckland last year , with Ravindra Jadeja and R Ashwin playing a major role . " We were about to leave when the turnaround happened and that was miraculous. We have seen India struggle so many times here. India will play Zimbabwe here in a group game and we 'll go and enjoy. But let them play the semifinal in Australia and make the final , " Gurdev Singh , another Indian working in Auckland , said. But Devi Dutt , who runs an Indian restaurant , Mangal , just opposite the Eden Park , gets angry when told about the desire of Indian fans to avoid the semifinal in Auckland . " Pagal hain sab , imagine the business I will get if India play the semifinal here. And if you have to win the World Cup , you have to beat every team. How can you say Australia at home is easier than New Zealand at home ? " Dutt argued. For now , it 's over to Saturday 's game , the outcome of which will give an indication of what 's in store for India . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
