World Cup 2015 : No harm in all the hype , says McCullum The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 14 , 2015 , 09.50AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : There 's a Brendon buzz in New Zealand these days. Talk to people on the streets and they tell you : " We have Brendon McCullum . We can win the Cup. " Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 It 's a strange situation for the New Zealand captain. It 's his fourth World Cup and every time before this , he went into the tournament as an underdog . " Great if you reach semis ; nev er mind , we did well. " That 's how the Kiwis have approached their cricket till now.But for the first time , hosts New Zealand are being talked about as one of the favourites and McCullum , who won the New Zealand Sportsperson of the Year award a couple of days back , is one of the prime reasons . For somebody who 's used to playing it hard but taking it easy thereafter , is n't all the hype a bit of a burden ? McCullum shrugged : " Underdogs , dark horses or favourites - it 's all irrelevant once the games start. There 's no harm in all the hype , it drums up the energy and anticipation. " The Kiwis have done quite a bit in the last year leading up to the World Cup. It all started with an unexpected Test and ODI series win against India , followed by triumphs against Pakistan and Sri Lanka. And for McCullum , who started it off with a matchsaving triple century in the sec ond Test against India , things have only improved . Incidentally , he was picked up by Chennai Super Kings in the IPL auctions last year and he told TOI in an earlier interview how he constantly learns from his franchise skipper MS Dhoni . " It 's amazing how he maintains his calm under pressure , " McCullum had said. It seems he has been able to instill that same level-headedness in his approach to the game. " I 've got a job to do and it 's all-encompassing in terms of captaincy , opening the batting and trying to execute the strategies. When it 's a World Cup , the pressure is on everybody , I have high ambitions as to what I want to achieve , " McCullum explained . Someone spoke about his first World Cup in 2003 and McCullum smiled. " I was a kid then. Missed the first match... now here I am in my hometown , leading my team. " He lives in Christchurch these days with his wife and three kids.After Sir Richard Hadlee , the city has once again found a local cricket hero and McCullum acknowledges the goosebump moments he lived during the opening ceremony on Thursday night , sharing the stage with 2012 rugby World Cup winning captain Richie McCaw . " What 's your father saying ? Did he have a tip or two for you ? " a journalist friend of the captain asked him and McCullum laughed : " Have n't spoken to the old boy the last couple of days , he must be up for a free ticket I 'm sure. " There was a roll of laughter . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
