World Cup 2015 : No problem in the Pakistan team , claims manager Cheema The author has posted comments on this article Mar 12 , 2015 , 08.31PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 KARACHI : Pakistan manager Naved Akram Cheema has dismissed speculation about problems in the national team in the ongoing ICC World Cup 2015 and said all the players and management were united . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " There is no favouritism or bias in the team regarding anyone and all the players and management are in high spirits and on one platform , " Cheema told reporters in Adelaide on Thursday . He was responding to questions about the decision to not play wicketkeeper-batsman Sarfraz Ahmed in the first four matches of the World Cup and to use Umar Akmal as a part time wicketkeeper . " This is a wrong impression about Sarfraz that there was any favouritism or bias. I do n't think there was any issue over Sarfraz , he is important member of team but at that time we had a specialist opener who had replaced Hafeez so we wanted to give him a chance and when he did not perform we gave Sarfraz a chance , " Cheema said , adding that Sarfraz is not a specialist opener . " Everything was done with consensus. We ( tour selection committee ) discuss everything. We look at fitness of players and specifically their performances at nets and I give preference to the opinion of captain and coach because they executive plans on ground , " he added . Cheema , who chairs the tour selection committee meeting , said that the conduct of the players was very good . " They do what they are told and we are no less than any other team , " he said . Cheema also said that he had interacted with other team managers and ICC officials regarding the refusal of teams to tour Pakistan because of security issues . " I have met with managers and ICC officials whenever it is possible. I spoke to the Zimbabwe Cricket Union chief executive and he was very keen to send their team to Pakistan. They want to tour in May . " I advised him that I would also give recommendations for the tour and they should talk directly to Pakistan Board. Both the Boards are now negotiating as Zimbabwe also want Pakistan to make a return tour , " he said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
