World Cup 2015 : Not perfect but a good win anyway , says De Villiers The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 12 , 2015 , 04.40PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 WELLINGTON : South Africa 's 146-run victory over UAE in their final World Cup Pool B clash on Thursday was exactly what the team needed heading into the quarterfinals , captain AB de Villiers said . De Villiers ' side have experienced an inconsistent campaign and were still to secure qualification for the last eight before the match at Wellington Regional Stadium . South Africa had displayed their best form when twice registering scores of more than 400 runs but also appeared vulnerable in losses to India and Pakistan , raising doubts over the side 's ability to shake off their 'World Cup chokers ' tag . " I wo n't say 'yes that win has given us the confidence to believe that we are better than ever ' but those games need to be respected and the boys rocked up with a great attitude , " said man of the match De Villiers , who scored 99 runs in a 341 for six total . " We wanted to win. We wanted to play a good game of cricket. Which we did , " he added after UAE were dismissed for 195 with Fahad Alhashmi unable to bat after injuring his leg while bowling . " It was a good performance. Those are always tricky games. I thought they bowled pretty well up front and made it difficult for us ( and ) ... they made us work for our runs . " Everyone bowled nicely. Very happy with the fielding display as well. Those kind of opportunities will help us going into the knockout rounds. " De Villiers said South Africa probably had some selection issues ahead of their quarterfinal , likely to be against Sri Lanka in Sydney presuming the remaining Pool A matches go as expected . Faf du Plessis , who did not play due to a back injury should be fit in time for next Wednesday 's clash with Rilee Rossouw , who scored 43 against UAE and pulled off three spectacular catches and Farhaan Behardien ( 64 not out ) likely to be competing for a spot . Wicketkeeper Quinton de Kock , who scored 26 , still had De Villiers ' support despite a lean spell of runs , in which he has totalled just 53 in six innings . The captain said De Kock was a potential match winner , while there was also another reason why he wanted to ensure the 22-year-old remained in the team . " I do n't want to keep , " he added of having to take the gloves if De Kock was dropped . " It really puts a lot of pressure on me as a captain. I 've got more time without the gloves in hand . I feel I can get to my bowlers , communication is much better. So it will be a last resort for us to move in that direction. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
