World Cup 2015 : Of Rubel 's fortitude , brothers in law and Bengali scribes The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 16 , 2015 , 05.15PM IST Post his last-over heroics in the win against England , Rubel Hossain has turned overnight into a hero. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : The maximum interest among the Indian media contingent at Bangladesh 's practice session was about the team 's pace spearhead Rubel Hossain , who was recently embroiled in a controversy regarding his alleged relationship with a local actress . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 However , post his last-over heroics in the win against England , Rubel has turned overnight into a hero and from Heath Streak to coach Chandika Hathurusinghe , everyone has been very protective about the bowler . Hathurusingha was quick to point out that once Rubel was in Australia , no one asked any personal questions and he was ready to " switch on and think about the game " . " We only spoke to him on cricketing matters. We never spoke about what he was going through. We focused on cricket. He was very professional and switched the moment he came into the side. What he has achieved is because of his own hard work , " Hathurusingha said about the bowler . Brothers in law rule the roost : Mahmudullah is now the cynosure of all eyes in Bangladesh after his back-to-back tons against England and New Zealand in the World Cup. But Ryadh , as he is fondly known in cricketing circles , had a tough time in the past two years , with his position in the side being questioned. But there was one man who always stood behind him. Former captain and one of the key players Mushfiqur Rahim . Mahmudullah and Rahim enjoyed a big partnership against England and it showed that they understood each other 's game. In any case they are best friends off it also by virtue of being brothers in law as their respective wives are sisters . If 'father does n't permit , how can Son ' : Bangladesh 's media manager , the very friendly Rabeed Imam has been with the team for more than 10 years and he does share a cordial relationship with members of the Indian media contingent. One of the Indian journalists went up to him and requested : " Rabeed bhai , Baba does n't give us interviews , at least you spare one player for us. " Rabeed cheekily replied , " What father ( Baba ) ca n't give you , how can son give it to you ? " Bangladeshi scribes dominate MCG : If India has the biggest media contingent with around 50 print , electronic journalists along with photo and video journalists , Bangladesh is not far behind with close to 40 travelling with the team . They strongly believe that 'Tigers ' ( that 's how the national team is referred to in Bangladesh ) could upset the Indian applecart. The Indian journalists , especially the senior ones , are in demand from Bangladeshi channels for some impromptu comment on the quarterfinals. The BCB president Nazmul Hasan Papon is flying down for the match. Big incentives will await players if they beat India and reach the semifinals . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
