World Cup 2015 : Pacers give SA edge against India , says Botha The author has posted comments on this article Ruchir Mishra , TNN | Feb 20 , 2015 , 10.56AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Johan Botha may have played his last international match three years ago but he knows Australian conditions inside out. The former South Africa Twenty20 captain plays for South Australia in the domestic circuit and is a key player for the Big Bash League side Adelaide Strikers . Like any other South African , he too wants his team to break the World Cup jinx but he knows it 's easier said than done. South Africa experienced bumps against Zimbabwe in their first match and next play India in a high-voltage game. And Botha feels South Africa are ahead of India but only marginally . " South Africa are just ahead of India because of the conditions here. They are used to play in these conditions back home. We saw the other day how well India played in Adelaide but it was more of an Indian kind of wicket. The conditions in Melbourne will be different. ( Dale ) Steyn , ( Morne ) Morkel and ( Vernon ) Phillander will enjoy bowling on the MCG wicket , which has a bit more pace and bounce. However , there are match-winners in the Indian line-up and they could easily turn the game around. Their batting , if it clicks , can take the game away from any opposition.They will be confident af ter the last game and will be backing themselves , " Botha told TOI on Thursday from Adelaide . What gives South Africa a slight edge , according to Botha , is their pace bowling. " South Africa have world class pacers and they will test the Indian top order. But this South African side is a little bit short on batting. Much like India , I feel South Africa 's top six have to do the job as they do n't have all-rounders. This side is different to what South Africa generally used to be in the past , with ( Jacques ) Kallis , Albie ( Morkel ) and myself being in the mix. Most teams in the world , except for Aus tralia perhaps , do n't have firepower in lower order and that 's how it is , " he said . While South Africa always had power hitters , India never had that luxury in the lower order. Botha , however , says , " I do n't think it will bother India. Dhoni came after 40 overs against Pakistan and so did Ajinkya Rahane. If they can stretch the game long , like they did against Pakistan , they do n't have to worry about that.They just have to play smartly in the last five overs. They are a threatening batting line-up and just have to be disciplined against South Africans. If they do that , they have a good chance , " he concluded . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
