World Cup 2015 : Pakistan battle rift rumours , selection woes The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 20 , 2015 , 10.29AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : Pakistan and West Indies have suffered early setbacks but they know there is still everything to play for. The loss to India in the opener was a crushing blow for Pakistan and they are still recovering from it . The case is not different for West Indies , who lost to minnows Ireland in their first game and it could all go downhill for them in the tournament if they do n't beat Pakistan on Saturday . Both teams are struggling with issues , which is not the ideal situation before a game of this magnitude. While West Indies have injury worries , strife is part and parcel of Pakistan set-up. Currently , the Pakistani camp is battling the issue of their fielding coach Grant Luden having allegedly threatened to resign due to the rude behavior of some senior players. The team is trying its best to project a picture of bonhomie , but one could sense that all is not well in the camp . There are selection issues as well which need to be addressed soon. Senior pro Younis Khan , who had struggled in the lead-up to the World Cup in the middle-order , failed as an opener against India and he will definitely be demoted , if not dropped. Umar Akmal 's performance as a wicketkeeper , too , has come under scanner and indications are that Sarfraz Ahmed may be included in the playing XI. Both Akmal and Sarfraz were given long wicket-keeping sessions by Luden and sources said the final decision will be taken in the next 24 hours . " If Sarfraz plays , he may open the innings as well. We have to weigh the pros and cons before taking a call , " a member of the team management said. West Indies , too , are a worried a lot after failing to defend 304 against Ireland. In addition to that , there 's an injury scare for Darren Sammy , who was seen limping in practice . Left-arm spinner Suleiman Benn , who was n't played against Ireland , is likely to be I included in the playing XI. " We have to forget what happened against Ireland. We should have defended that total but there 's no point thinking about it anymore. We will have to redraw our strategies and go out all guns blazing on Saturday , " Benn said after the West Indies practice session . The Hagley Oval , venue for the game , is small and the feeling is that a West Indian spinner would struggle to contain Pakistan , who play spin well. Benn , who is known to keep it tight , does n't think so. " Spinners always have a role to play and a lot of it is mental. If we can keep our heads , there 's no reason why we ca n't get the job done , " Benn sounded the warning bell for Pakistan . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
