World Cup 2015 : Pakistan beat Ireland to reach quarterfinals The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 15 , 2015 , 04.57PM IST Pakistan 's Sarfraz Ahmed celebrates his hundred during the Cricket World Cup Pool B match against Ireland in Adelaide. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Sarfraz Ahmed struck his maiden ODI hundred as Pakistan advanced to the World Cup quarterfinals , knocking Ireland out with a seven-wicket triumph over the European giant-slayers in their final Pool B match on Sunday . Scorecard | Schedule Set a target of 238 by the Irish , Pakistan never looked in trouble and romped home with 3.5 overs to spare , putting up a rare clinical show in what has otherwise been a topsy-turvy campaign for them in the marquee event . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Sarfraz became the first Pakistan batsman after Imran Nazir ( 2007 ) to notch up a World Cup hundred as he slammed 101-run knock to cement his place after being kept out in the initial matches of the tournament . Pakistan will now face Australia in the last-eight stage on March 20 here after finishing third in their group with four wins out of six matches . It was a thoroughly polished performance by a more-often-than-not mercurial team with Sarfaraz proving his worth yet again. The 27-year-old wicketkeeper-batsman shone bright with 124-ball knock , which was studded with six fours . — Cricket World Cup ( @ cricketworldcup ) March 15 , 2015 Opener Ahmed Shehzad was another notable contributor to the team 's cause with a 71-ball 63 , which included seven hits to the fence . Man-of-the-match Sarfaraz and Shehzad put together 120 runs for the opening wicket , laying the solid foundation for a smooth chase . For the bitterly disappointed Irish , who impressed one and all with lion-hearted performances all through , Alex Cusack was the most successful bowler with figures of 1/43 from his 10 overs . Earlier , Irish captain William Porterfield made a composed century before Pakistan seamers staged a fightback to bowl out Ireland for 237 in the must-win game . The 30-year-old opening batsman Porterfield made 107 , but the Pakistanis came back to snare five wickets conceding only 49 runs in the last 10 overs . Wahab Riaz was the most successful bowler for Pakistan , returning figures of 3/54 , while there were two wickets apiece for Sohail Khan and Rahat Ali . Opting to bat after winning the toss , Porterfield led by example and defied the Pakistani bowlers with elan at the Adelaide Oval . But even as the Irish skipper stood firm , other top batsmen such as Paul Stirling , Ed Joyce and Niall O'Brien failed to prosper . Porterfield emerged as lone ranger with the others throwing away their wickets at regular intervals . That he had only two stands of 48 runs each , with Andy Balbirnie ( 18 ) and Gary Wilson ( 29 ) for the fourth and fifth wicket respectively , indicate that Porterfield badly lacked support from the other end . Having won three out of their last five matches in the ongoing tournament , Ireland came into this final game with high hopes of making a maiden quarterfinal appearance in the quadrennial extravaganza . Porterfield showed the right intent , mixing caution with aggression en route to his seventh ODI hundred , but the others left a lot to be desired . He found the fence 11 times and cleared it once during his 131-ball knock . The Irish captain , though , was lucky to have survived a scare when he was batting on 99 , as Rahat Ali failed to hold onto a catch off his own bowling . Porterfield played an uppish drive but the ball burst through Rahat 's hands , allowing the batsman to come back for two runs and reach the three-figure mark . For the record , there was another return catch dropped later in the innings , by Riaz when he was up against John Mooney . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
