World Cup 2015 : Pakistan born again with win against South Africa The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 8 , 2015 , 11.23AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : A thunderstorm lashed Eden Park the moment the pulsating match got over , but lightning had struck a few hours before. South Africa 's coach Russell Domingo had termed the Pakistan team " predictably unpredictable " a couple of days back , and the men in green continued to surprise by turning their campaign around with a resounding performance . From being strugglers , Pakistan 's bowlers conjured up a magical performance to defend a moderate 232 on a high-scoring ground to notch up a 29-run win. AB de Villiers ( 77 off 58 balls ) did all he could but it was not his day . Everything seemed to be in South Africa 's favour from the beginning. They put Pakistan in on a rainy day and frequent interruptions broke the momentum of the Pakistan batsmen. The target was highly achievable for the powerful South African batting lineup but the Pakistan pacers decided this was to be their day . The likes of Riley Rousseau , Faf Du Plessis and JP Duminy too contributed to their team 's downfall by playing some injudicious strokes . The seven-foot giant Mohammad Irfan pitched one up to induce a nick from Quinton de Kock off the second ball of the innings. Regular wicketkeeper Sarfraz Ahmed 's superb catch diving to his right to dismiss Hashim Amla off left-arm swing bowler Wahab Riaz pushed South Africa further on the backfoot . The ball was doing a bit after an evening shower and the three pacers -Irfan , Rahat Ali and Wahab -were making things difficult for the South African batsmen. By the 20th over , South Africa were 102-6 and it seemed Pakistan would wrap up an easy win . But AB was still around.The skipper brought out his inventive powers to the fore and played some extraordinary shots against some quality swing bowling. He effortlessly drove anything marginally pitched up and unleashed the cut , pull and hook against the short deliveries . But wickets kept falling at the other end. AB had to keep taking risks and when he finally got out nicking one trying to pull paceman Sohail Khan , the game was well and truly over . Pakistan 's win was set up by wicketkeeper Sarfraz ( 49 off 49 balls ) , who was playing his first match of the tournament.Comeback man Younis Khan ( 37 ) and skipper Misbah ( 56 off 86 balls ) held the middle order together. There was another batting collapse when Misbah got out but in the end it was Pakistan 's night . 2 Sarfraz is the second WK to effect five dismissals on WC debut , the first being Jimmy Adams vs Kenya at Pune in 1996 5049 Runs by Misbah-ul-Haq to become the first to manage 5000 runs without a single ton in ODIs. His tally of 42 fifties is also a record for any batsman without a century . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
