World Cup 2015 : Pakistan considering Shah for quarterfinal The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 18 , 2015 , 04.21PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Pakistan are toying with the idea of recalling leg-spinner Yasir Shah for Friday 's World Cup quarterfinal against Australia . Shah , 28 , has not played since Pakistan 's opening pool match against India but coach Waqar Younis said he was being considered as a replacement for injured fast bowler Mohammad Irfan . Shah has only played two One Day Internationals in his career but showed good form against the Australians , capturing 12 wickets in last year 's 2-0 test series win. Waqar said he could be picked depending on the state of the Adelaide Oval wicket . " We have discussed Shah but we will look at the pitch and if it 's conducive then we will see how it goes , " Waqar told reporters on Wednesday . " It 's a big game , a quarter-final of the World Cup and we all are very pleased to be here . " We know Australia play very aggressive cricket and we have to match that. We can beat Australia but for that we have to be very positive. " Pakistan lost their first two pool matches of the World Cup but rebounded to win their next four and book their place in the knockout phase . But their chances of upsetting co-hosts Australia suffered a blow when the towering Irfan was ruled out of the rest of the tournament after suffering a stress fracture in his pelvis . " It 's unfortunate that we lost Irfan just at the wrong time , " Waqar said. " It 's a huge loss. He was an X factor for us but we have got to live with it. " With Irfan unavailable , Pakistan are likely to lean on Wahab Riaz , Sohail Khan , Rahat Ali and Ehsan Adil for their pace attack , although the makeup could change if Shah gets the nod . " I am pleased with the performance of the fast bowlers , Wahab Riaz has taken responsibility and has been delivering and so has Rahat Ali , " Waqar said . " We have been approaching the games very well in the entire tournament. We had a poor start at the beginning but we came back well . " The bowlers know what to do and they are doing well. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
