World Cup 2015 : Pakistan fielding coach complains of players ' abusive behaviour The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 18 , 2015 , 10.13AM IST Luden complained that Afridi , Shehzad and Akmal had misbehaved with him during a training session. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 KARACHI : Pakistan 's World Cup campaign hit another snag when the national team 's fielding coach Grant Luden threatened to step down complaining of misbehaviour from three senior players . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 According to details the incident which is yet to be confirmed by the Pakistan Cricket Board ( PCB ) , Luden complained that Shahid Afridi , Ahmed Shehzad and Umar Akmal had misbehaved with him during a training session on Tuesday . " Luden sent a message to the PCB chairman threatening to resign as he could not tolerate such insulting behaviour from the players , " one source said . Luden apparently complained to Shahryar Khan that some of the players including these three were not cooperating with him in the training sessions that hindered his work . " Luden has complained that the three players allegedly used abusive language on Tuesday. " Luden has in his message to Khan threatened that if the players do n't change their behaviour he will resign from his post . The source said that after getting the message , the PCB Chairman had spoken to the team manager , Naved Cheema , head coach Waqar Younis and Luden and discussed the issue with them . " He has assured Luden his concerns will be looked into and the players will not be allowed to misbehave in future , " the source added . Interestingly the training regime being implemented by Waqar and his team of coaches has already apparently become a sore point in the team with some players who have complained that they are left exhausted before matches by the tough schedule . The team management is also under fire for their selections made for the opening match against India which Pakistan lost on Sunday . The PCB hired Luden last year as part of its overhauling of the team 's support staff . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
