World Cup 2015 : Pakistan ready to cope without X-factor Irfan The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 18 , 2015 , 02.01PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Pakistan coach Waqar Younis described Mohammad Irfan as the team 's X-factor but insisted they can still defeat Australia despite the giant seamer being ruled of the tournament with a stress fracture of his pelvis . The lanky 7 foot , one inch paceman suffered a fracture to his hip bone and was ruled out of the remaining World Cup matches , including Friday 's mouth-watering quarter-final against the four-time champions at the Adelaide Oval . " It 's unfortunate that we lost Irfan just at the wrong time , " said Waqar on Wednesday. " It 's a huge loss. He was an X factor for us but we have got to live with it. " Waqar refused to accept that Irfan had not been rested adequately. " This injury could have happened a long time before , so we ca n't say that it happened two days ago , it 's not easy for us but we have to cope with it , " said Waqar . " I am pleased with the performance of the fast bowlers -- Wahab Riaz has taken responsibility and has been delivering and so has Rahat Ali . " We have ben approaching the games very well in the entire tournament. We had a poor start at the beginning but we came back well . " The bowlers know what to do and they are doing well. Look at the bigger picture , look at what happened in the recent past , losing so many bowlers and some good spinners for other reasons so it 's tough but we are handling that well. " Pakistan 's preparations for the World Cup were badly hit when their ace spinner Saeed Ajmal was suspended due to an illegal bowling action in September last year . It got worse when spinning all-rounder Mohammad Hafeez was also banned for his action before he injured his calf while pacemen Junaid Khan had to be withdrawn from the 15-man squad a month before the start of the World Cup with a leg injury . Waqar did not rule out playing leg-spinner Yasir Shah in place of Irfan on Friday . Shah took 12 wickets in Pakistan 's 2-0 Test series win over Australia in the United Arab Emirates last year -- their first win over the opponents for 20 years . " We have discussed Shah but we will look at the pitch and if it 's conducive then we will see how it goes , " said Waqar , who added he was not worried about facing a tough opponent like Australia . " Look , we are in a situation where we can not worry too much. We need to go out and do the best we can. It 's a big game , a quarter-final of the World Cup and we all are very pleased to be here . " We know Australia play very aggressive cricket and we have to match that. " Waqar said Pakistan needed to be positive. " We can beat Australia but for that we have to be very positive. We have beaten them in the past , even in the last World Cup ( 2011 ) so we can do that again if we play to our strengths. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
