World Cup 2015 : Peeved ICC president Kamal leaves MCG before end of final The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 29 , 2015 , 07.27PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Peeved at not being given the opportunity to hand out the World Cup trophy to the champions , International Cricket Council ( ICC ) president Mustafa Kamal on Sunday left the Melbourne Cricket Ground even before the final between Australia and New Zealand finished . It was ICC chairman N Srinivasan , who handed the World Cup to champion team 's skipper Michael Clarke with tournament Brand Ambassador Sachin Tendulkar , ICC CEO Dave Richardson and Cricket Australia supremo Wally Edwards sharing the dais with the Tamil Nadu strongman . According to reliable sources in the ICC , it was learnt that at an ICC meeting on Saturday , Kamal was categorically told that he wo n't be allowed to hand over the trophy . It has been learnt that Srinivasan is extremely angry after Kamal voiced his concerns about " umpiring bias " , which led to Rohit Sharma being given not-out to a Rubel Hossain delivery which apparently looked a " touch and go " decision . Kamal , who is the Bangladesh Cricket Board ( BCB ) president had accused India of flexing its muscles , which had led to umpiring bias . Srinivasan reportedly was n't one bit amused after hearing Kamal 's comments on record. While the former BCCI president did n't say anything in public , he did express his displeasure to the board members and questioned as to how can Kamal pinpoint on one wrong umpiring decision and take it as an isolated case . Kamal reportedly did n't sit in the ICC Hospitality Box and after talking to elite group of people in Bangladesh government ( he is a union minister also ) , Kamal decided to leave the venue as he felt that it was an insult to his position . The ICC constitution states that head of the body will hand out the trophy but since the position of chairman has been created , there is some amount of confusion as to who is the head of the world cricket 's governing body . The president is the ceremonial head while executive powers lie with the chairman. However till 1996 , the World Cup has been handed by various people and not necessarily the head of ICC. Kamal has another three months left in ICC . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
