World Cup 2015 : Plenty for Kohli still to do , says Whatmore The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 12 , 2015 , 12.51PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Zimbabwe coach Dav Whatmore hailed the impact of Virat Kohli on the Indian team on Thursday but insisted the batting superstar still has plenty to achieve . Whatmore coached Kohli and Ravindra Jadeja during India 's junior World Cup triumph in 2008 and will come face to face with them again on Saturday in the teams ' concluding World Cup Pool A game at Eden Park . " Like any young player , if you are involved in their development , it is always nice to see progress. To be very honest with you , I was only there for a short period of time but the time I spent with them was enjoyable , " said the widely-travelled Whatmore , who worked at India 's national cricket academy from 2007 to 2012 " It was n't difficult to see that they had potential to go on and it is nice to see they have realised it. There is still more for them to do. " Whatmore , who also coached Sri Lanka to the World Cup title in 1996 , said Kohli has set an example for youngsters to follow . " He is confident. He was confident also as an under-19 captain. But there have been many examples of confident young players who do n't follow up and follow through. He is one who has , " said Whatmore , in charge of Pakistan before taking up Zimbabwe job in December last year . The Zimbabwe coach said he had also been impressed by India 's bowling attack which has been revived at the World Cup after enduring a dismal Test series against Australia and tri-nations ODI tournament which preceded the World Cup . " It 's a team that is bowling the opposition out frequently and that has been a big plus for India , " said Whatmore . " Their batting talent has never really been in question. What was needed was a good strong bowling performance and they have done that. " Whatmore said Zimbabwe will miss experienced batsman Brendan Taylor who will retire from international cricket after the World Cup and will play county cricket for Nottinghamshire . A former national captain , Taylor has scored 1,493 Test runs , including four centuries , and 166 one-day internationals . " It is true we will miss Brendan , who is going to Nottingham , and they are very , very lucky to have him. Despite that , we feel we have got a number of players who make this team really strong in terms of what they offer . " The problem is that we have n't had enough matches. If we had enough matches , then I am sure that in certain defining moments , we would be equal to it. We would not be going home on Sunday. We would be playing in the second round. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
