World Cup 2015 : Poor death bowling , bad length cost India dearly in semis , say experts The author has posted comments on this article Ruchir Mishra , TNN | Mar 27 , 2015 , 11.22PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Nagpur : In the 2003 World Cup , Javagal Srinath , Zaheer Khan and Ashish Nehra tested every opposition with some brilliant swing and seam bowling. On odd occasions , they even bounced out the opposition. Team India were going smoothly till they encountered the Australians in the final where Ponting and Co. batted their rivals out of the game . Twelve years later , almost the same script was played out - another pace trio put on a superb show as India roared into the semifinals of the World Cup on the back of seven straight wins. But this time too , the Aussies were waiting for them and the pacers slipped once again as India were knocked out of the tournament . The one difference , though , was that India managed to pull things back a bit this time around. The hosts were looking at a score beyond 350 but the Indians checked them with quick wickets only to release the pressure at the death. In the last six overs , India conceded 70 runs and 50 off those were made by No.7 and No.9 off only 21 deliveries . " Death bowling has always been an issue for India. It turned out be crucial on Thursday. India controlled things well to a certain extent after that big stand between Finch and Smith. But Johnson and Faulkner took the game away from us. You need to bowl to a plan and execute it properly. That was n't there , " ex-India and Mumbai pacer Paras Mhambrey , who is also a leading coach , told TOI on Friday . " In this World Cup , we did n't require much of death bowling. The games were more or less won much before that. This was the first time that the bowlers were put under pressure and they could n't handle it , especially in the end. Look at Australians ' death bowling. The likes of Johnson and Starc were right on the money. We have bowlers who are capable of bowling 140km. I can understand one bad over but there were too many , " he said . Former India seamer Prashant Vaidya felt that India bowled wrong lengths early on and never built pressure on the Australians. " We thought they understood what length they needed to bowl on. It 's one thing bowling badly but we bowled to the Australians ' strength and that was more disappointing. Either it was too full or a long hop , which they were ready for , " Vaidya said . " It was n't easy to bat early on. The odd ball was stopping so they required to bowl a consistent length. Our bowlers tried too many things instead of bowling on good areas. They were neither attacking nor restricting the runs. Besides , India could n't figure out where to bowl to Smith after bowling to him throughout the summer , " he said . Vaidya said that Australian bowled in the right areas to build pressure. " Rohit Sharma and Shikhar Dhawan had to try something different as they were chasing a tall score. Someone like Josh Hazlewood , who is very new to international cricket , figured out where he needed to bowl , " said Vaidya . While the pacers were guilty of leaking runs , Ravindra Jadeja also failed to live up to the expectations. Former India spinner Narendra Hirwani , who is also an ex-selector , felt Jadeja could have done a bit more. " When India did well in Champions Trophy , he contributed with wickets. Ashwin needed support at the other end. We need wicket takers in 50-overs cricket. Under the Powerplay rule , you can restrict runs only by picking up wickets. That 's why I was surprised not to see Karn Sharma in the squad. Axar Patel is a good bowler but he did n't get a chance only because he is a left-arm spinner like Jadeja. So the team preferred the experienced one , " Hirwani said . " Karn was picked in the Test squad because of his performance in the shorter version where he feels at home. The selectors were n't wrong in picking Jadeja but when you have picked three spinners , you should have gone with variety. A leg-spinner would have made the difference. You see how well Imran Tahir did for South Africa , " Hirwani said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
