Steve Smith in 'Spidercam ' Catch Controversy Steve Smith in 'Spidercam ' Catch Controversy Steve Smith pointed towards the spidercam after dropping a straightforward catching chance of Lokesh Rahul , hinting that the ball struck the wire of the spidercam . Last updated on Thursday , 08 January , 2015 09 : 23 IST Total Shares Aussie skipper Steve Smith © AFP Runs came slowly for India in the face of tight bowling but there was controversy as television 's " spidercam " appeared to contribute to an Australian dropped catch on in the final Test on Thursday. ( Scorecard | Day 3 Blog ) Australia messed up two chances to dismiss Rahul on 41 and 46 , the second one possibly caused by the positioning of spidercam held up by cables above the field . The first went astray as Kohli was beaten by Nathan Lyon 's flight and the ball fizzed past wicketkeeper Brad Haddin with Rahul charging down the pitch for a run . Rahul was sent back then fell over and lost his bat yet still managed to scramble home and beat Haddin 's delayed throw to the non-striker 's end . Skipper Steve Smith stood glaring at Haddin with his arms outstretched at the botched chance as India had a big let-off . But it was Smith who was next at fault when he put down Rahul behind the wicket three overs before lunch after the Indian skied a pull shot . Smith was seen to mouth an expletive to team-mates , which suggested he was distracted by the cables connecting the spidercam aerial TV camera . Word from Spidercam is that the ball did not hit the camera or the wires. India 2/119 # PinkTest # AUSvIND # WWOS pic.twitter.com/cS65T3sW6j — Wide World of Sports ( @ WWOS9 ) January 8 , 2015 Rahul appeared to have another chance earlier in the session when the Australians appealed for a catch by Joe Burns at bat-pad off spinner Lyon but umpire Richard Kettleborough was unmoved . Infrared TV replays showed the ball may have brushed a glove and off the thigh guard to Burns , who did not refer the catch to the third umpire . Sharma was out attempting to sweep Lyon only to get a bottom edge on to his stumps for 53 off 133 balls , ending a stubborn 97-run partnership with Rahul . Only 51 runs came off 30 overs in the third day 's slow-moving morning session in Sydney for the loss of Rohit Sharma 's wicket . India went to lunch at 122 for two and trail Australia by 450 runs with Lokesh Rahul unbeaten on 50 and skipper Virat Kohli on 16 . Story first published on : Thursday , 08 January 2015 08 : 11 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
