World Cup 2015 : Porterfield condemns blurred vision The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 15 , 2015 , 09.54PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Ireland captain William Porterfield on Sunday questioned the International Cricket Council 's vision for the sport after the non-Test nation faced the axe from the World Cup . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Ireland lost to Pakistan by seven wickets at the Adelaide Oval in a match that lifted the winners into the quarter-final and sent the loser home . With the ICC planning to reduce the next World Cup in England in 2019 from 14 teams to 10 , Porterfield hoped it was not the end of the Irish dream in the sport . " I 'd love to think it was not our last World Cup game , " the skipper said . " Obviously it will be interesting to see what their ( the ICC 's ) vision for the game is . " We need to know that and everyone wants to know that because if their vision is to grow the game , then cutting teams in world competitions will not be the right thing . " I think the next World Cup is two or three days longer than this World Cup , so when you 've got four fewer teams and your competition drags out longer , that 's not an excuse. " Porterfield did not expect an immediate response from the ICC on the matter . " I 'm sure they 're hoping everything blows over the next few weeks and they do n't hear much from us , " he said . " Then it will be easy to brush it under the carpet. But I think something has to be done if they want to grow the game. " Porterfield insisted Ireland needed to continue playing at the top level despite their first round exit -- mainly due to an inferior run-rate to the West Indies . " We 've missed out on the quarterfinals only on run rate , " he said. " I think we 've shown what we can do. We 've done plenty enough. The other non-Test nations have also put on some great performances and they 've played even less cricket than we have. " Porterfield hoped the ICC will not ignore pleas from cricket 's greats like Sachin Tendulkar to expand the World Cup , rather than shrink it . " If you cut us out of the World Cup then what 's the point really for us to keep going , " he said . " A lot of people have spoken out that it is the wrong move , a lot of influential people have said that. So I do n't think the ICC can just ignore that. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
