World Cup 2015 : Post win , Kiwis stop to smell the roses The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 26 , 2015 , 10.50AM IST Share on Linkedin The New Zealand journey in this World Cup has been a lot about the team spirit and the never-say-die attitude of the boys. Not for once have they taken a backward step , even when the chips have been down. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : They were tired but happy. The journey to Melbourne after the magic of Tuesday did n't feel tiresome for the New Zealanders . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 It was n't a huge fanfare for the New Zealanders at the Auckland airport as they left for Melbourne , but the few that were there truly appreciated the superb performance of the boys . Brendon McCullum , the captain who has led the Kiwis from the front , insisted that the team should " smell the roses " for a while before they embark on their final journey . " Today it is still about letting it sink in. When you achieve something as special as we have done you do n't want to park it too quickly. We have to allow ourselves the opportunity to stop and smell the roses. Today is about en joying that , tomorrow we will turn our attention to the final , " McCullum said . The New Zealanders celebrated quite late after their win as they met their friends and relatives , trying to savour the taste of their success . Mike Hesson , the New Zealand coach , spoke about the emotions that the team felt on Tuesday night during the roller-coaster ride. " There were obviously a lot of emotions throughout. I never thought we would get over the line until we saw the ball disappearing. I do n't even know where it landed. I just jumped up , " Hesson said . The New Zealand journey in this World Cup has been a lot about the team spirit and the never-say-die attitude of the boys. Not for once have they taken a backward step , even when the chips have been down , and Hesson spoke about that . " It was a whole heap of emotion , a whole heap of pride in the group. You have got a group of guys that did everything for each other. To put in a performance like that last night , with a crowd like that , was very special. " There was a time in the semifinal when the team got superstitious and did n't want the players to move from their places. They were split into groups and were keeping in touch on the walkie-talkie . " When the game gets tight you do n't want to get stuck between going up and down stairs , you do n't want to miss the action.There is a lot of superstition in cricket , and you do n't want to leave , especially at times like that , " Hesson said . The Kiwis have now won eight in a row at home in the World Cup , going one up on the class of 1992 , who stumbled after winning seven. Hesson thanked the crowd for cheering them all along through the New Zealand leg . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
