World Cup 2015 : President , PM congratulate Team India for entering semis The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 19 , 2015 , 06.53PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : President Pranab Mukherjee and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday congratulated the Indian team for its 109-run victory over Bangladesh in the second World Cup quarterfinal in Melbourne . " Congratulations Team India on the win against Bangladesh ; sportsmanship of both teams commendable , " the President tweeted . Congratulations Team India on the win against Bangladesh ; sportsmanship of both teams commendable # PresidentMukherjee — President of India ( @ RashtrapatiBhvn ) March 19 , 2015 Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated the Indian team for entering the semifinals of the ICC World Cup , saying it was an " excellent performance " by the side . " Excellent game , excellent performance ! Congrats yet again Team India , " tweeted Modi . Excellent game , excellent performance ! Congrats yet again Team India . — Narendra Modi ( @ narendramodi ) March 19 , 2015 Defending Champions India defeated Bangladesh by 109 runs at the MCG to record their seventh consecutive win in the 2015 ICC World Cup and sports minister Sarbananda Sonowal also applauded the efforts . Sonowal extended his wishes to the team for making last four stage of the mega-event and also congratulated Player-of-the-Match Rohit Sharma for his brilliant century . Congratulations to team India for their victory against Bangladesh & on reaching the Semi Finals of the World Cup 2015. # INDvsBAN @ PIB_India — Sarbananda Sonowal ( @ sarbanandsonwal ) March 19 , 2015 In reply to India 's commendable 302 for six , Bangladesh were dismissed for a paltry 193 in 45 overs at the Melbourne Cricket Ground today . Newly-elected BCCI secretary Anurag Thakur was also all praise for the team as he wrote on his twitter handle , " # WeWontGiveItBack ! Well Played Boys ! A billion cheers for Team India ! " Former Union civil aviation minister Praful Patel , who is also the president of the All India Football Federation , said the country is proud of its cricket team . " Marvelous victory for # TeamIndia at the Quarter Finals ! The nation is proud as Team India makes it to the Semi Finals. # CWC15 # INDvsBAN, The minister of state for I&B , Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore also wished Team India . " # IndvsBan Congratulations Team India. Keep Playing Well and Keep Winning , " Rathore 's twitter account said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
