World Cup 2015 : Proteas coach Domingo wary of India 's batting The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 20 , 2015 , 09.31AM IST Kohli might be the 'kingpin ' of India 's batting but Domingo said his team is not making special plans for him alone. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Russell Domingo , the South Africa coach , has a healthy respect for Indian batting as he feels that besides Virat Kohli , there are many match-winners in their mix. And he insists that the history of India having lost the past three World Cup encounters to South Africa , will have no bearing on Sunday 's game here . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Kohli might be the 'kingpin ' of India 's batting but Domingo said his team is not making special plans for him alone . " We all know that Virat has been an outstanding player for India in the last couple of years. His record has been phenomenal. He is obviously the kingpin in their batting line-up. But we were talking last night about guys like Suresh Raina , Rohit Sharma , MS Dhoni and Ajinkya Rahane , " Domingo told the media at the MCG where South Africa had their first workout . South Africa have defeated India in all their three World Cup encounters - in 1992 , 1999 and 2011. In 2011 , though , that loss did not stop India from going on to lift the World Cup . When asked if the unbeaten run against India would give his team a psychological advantage , Domingo said : " We just really are focussing on our preparations. I have n't thought too much about whether we have a psychological advantage over India or not. India are the current world champions and a wonderful ODI side. Whatever has happened in the past in previous World Cups will count for very little on Sunday. " On having former India coach Gary Kirsten as the team consultant he said , " Gary has got a certain amount of days and we have allocated what we see as important stages of the event where we think he can offer us a lot of advice. Also just having him around is a big source of inspiration and motivation for the team. This is an important two weeks for us - games against India , the West Indies and Ireland before going back to Auckland. Once we get through this Australian leg , we will reassess and see when he can join us again. " SA have also hired Michael Hussey as part of the support staff. " I think his presence alone is a big plus for us. He is a guy who has won a World Cup as a player. He has played under these conditions for a long period of time. I think his presence alone will serve as huge motivation for the players , Domingo said on Hussey . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
