World Cup 2015 : Ravichandran Ashwin raises bar under pressure The author has posted comments on this article Prasad RS , TNN | Mar 12 , 2015 , 10.21AM IST Ashwin 's return to form has given Indian campaign a boost. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : The ongoing World Cup has come as a breath of fresh air for Ravichandran Ashwin. The tall offie has looked to keep things simple by bowling a tidy line and has been richly rewarded for his efforts . He started the tournament with a unique feat - he became only the second Indian spinner after S Venkataraghavan to bowl three maiden overs in a World Cup match. That it came against archrivals Pakistan in a high-pressure game speaks volumes about Ashwin 's knack for raising his game when it matters . Rewind to that phase during the 2013-14 season when Ashwin failed to take a wicket across different formats for close to two months. The MS Dhoni-led side could n't win a single match on the tours of South Africa and New Zealand . Call it the pressure to deliver or trying to think too much about the game , Ashwin soon began to experiment with his bowling action which led to a lot of criticism . " If you start tinkering with your line etc. , you ca n't execute what you want to do , " noted Ashwin 's long-time coach Sunil Subramaniam . India 's tour of England saw Ashwin being overlooked for the better part of the series. The time spent on the sidelines saw Ashwin work on his game . Ashwin sought the help of former India skipper Rahul Dravid - part of the team as batting consultant on that tour - and Mutthiah Muralitharan . " Ashwin had a long chat with Rahul and Murali during that ( India-England ) series and later confessed to me that he was beginning to believe that he had to bowl in one place , " revealed Sunil , a former Tamil Nadu spinner . While Ashwin 's return to his wicket-taking ways is good news for his supporters , what will impress even his staunchest of critics is the 28year-old 's ability to handle pressure situations in big tournaments with aplomb . Ashwin has been sharp in constructing each of his overs. From walking back to his run-up after a delivery , to getting ready for his next the moment the batsman gets into his stance , Ashwin has appeared purposeful but not in any rush. He has bowled with guile and has n't merely fired darts. That 's not all . Ashwin brings his 'A ' game whenever India features in a premier tournament. Statistics will prove this point - be it at the 2013 Champions Trophy campaign which India won , or at the World T20 last year where Dhoni 's men finished runners-up to Sri Lanka . " Performing well in bigger tournaments shows the true character of any player and Ashwin has time and again showcased that , " said Sunil . With India entering a crucial phase in the competition , Ashwin 's form will be key to the defending champions ' chances of retaining the trophy on March 29 in Melbourne . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
