World Cup 2015 : Real Afghanistan need to stand up , says coach The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Feb 18 , 2015 , 06.28PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Afghanistan are at the World Cup to compete for victories and simply did not give a true account of themselves in their defeat to Bangladesh on their tournament debut , coach Andy Moles said on Wednesday . The thumping 105-run loss was a huge disappointment to the Afghans , whose meteoric rise to the top table of international cricket over the last 15 years has been a rare good news story from their war-torn country . After holding Bangladesh to a respectable 267 all out in their 50 overs at Manuka Oval , they lost their first three wickets for three runs in three overs and were finally bowled out for 162 . " That is n't a true reflection of how we play , but in any game of cricket when you 're three for three in one and a half overs , not many teams , if any teams come back from that , " Moles told a news conference in Canberra . " The boys are very proud in their performance , and they know that they have n't given a fair reflection today . " We 're in the shop window here , we have n't disgraced ourselves but we got lost , we just did n't get out of the blocks tonight with the bat , we were in a fog , " he added . " They bowled very well and before we knew where we were , we were one-two-three down and just treading water. " Cricket was still the subject of a Taliban ban in Afghanistan when Bangladesh made their World Cup debut in 1999 but Moles said his team had approached the fixture against one of the 10 test-playing nations with high hopes . " We genuinely thought this was a game we could have won tonight , " he said . " I still believe that if we 'd have applied ourselves better , we would have given a better account of ourselves . " Take nothing away from Bangladesh , they played very well but we did n't hit the heights we expect of ourselves. " Asked whether nerves were responsible for the calamitous folding of the top order , Moles said he would be talking to the batsmen about their mental approach to the match . " I really do n't think they were up for the fight from ball one , " he said . Moles said his players needed to take the defeat " on the chin " and pick themselves up for their next match against Sri Lanka in Dunedin , New Zealand on Sunday . " We 're honestly here to compete in the games that we 've got , " the Englishman added . " Sri Lanka will be a step up but you have n't seen Afghanistan play yet. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
