World Cup 2015 : Relieved Misbah tells Pakistan batsmen to shape-up The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 1 , 2015 , 06.28PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE ( Australia ) : Pakistan skipper Misbah-ul-Haq told his batsmen to shape-up or ship out of the World Cup after the 1992 champions scraped a 20-run win over Zimbabwe on Sunday . It was Pakistan 's first victory of this World Cup after losing by 76 runs to India and suffering a 150-run hiding at the hands of the West Indies in their previous two Pool B fixtures . Misbah needed his bowlers to set up Sunday 's win after his side had been limited to a modest 235 for seven by another poor top-order effort . It was Pakistan 's highest total of the tournament but a long way off the fourteen 300 and over totals so far registered elsewhere in the event . " We need to work hard to improve our batting. All the teams are getting to 280 , 290 , or 300 , so we need to start well and capitalize , " said Misbah . So far at the World Cup , Pakistan have scored 224 all out against India and were dismissed for just 160 by the West Indies . Misbah has his team 's best two scores of 76 against Pakistan and 73 on Sunday . Umar Akmal and Sohaib Maqsood got beyond fifty against the West Indies while Wahab Riaz scored a half-century against Zimbabwe at Brisbane 's Gabba ground . " It was really tough because it was a make or break game for us. You ca n't believe how happy we are because we were out of the tournament if we 'd lost this game , " added the captain . " The pitch was n't easy. It was a bit two-paced and it was really difficult to rotate the strike . " I felt 250-260 would be really challenging today. We were 15-20 runs short but we showed the kind of quality we have in the bowling line-up and credit should be given to the fast bowlers. " The win gave Pakistan , who won the World Cup when the tournament was last staged in Australia and New Zealand 23 years ago , their first two points . But they are second from bottom in their pool , with just the top four sides going into the quarter-finals . They face the UAE in Napier on Wednesday , South Africa in Auckland next Saturday before their first round is wrapped up at Adelaide on March 15 against Ireland . Pakistan seamer Wahab Riaz was named man-of the-match after his four for 45 followed a career-best 54 not out . " When I went into bat , the discussion was to play all 50 overs and if we had to take chances we would do so in the last three or four overs , " he said . " The whole team really worked hard and believed in me and my batting. " Zimbabwe have lost three of the four games and captain Elton Chigumbura , who batted despite suffering a leg while fielding , admitted they had thrown away a great opportunity , especially as they had been 128 for three . " It is always disappointing to lose a game like this when you feel you have a chance to win. Our weakness has been that we have not had one guy scoring a hundred or batting through the innings , " he said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
