Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 There were two players present at the venue here who had played in that historic final. Sunil Gavaskar was in the commentary box , while Clive Lloyd is with the West Indies team as the chairman of the selection panel . Gavaskar was immediately reminded of that famous June day and he told fellow commentator Sourav Ganguly that it was West Indies chance to pay back India in the same coin . Incidentally , Gavaskar was the first batsman to be dismissed in the final but went on to hold two crucial catches in the slips. Lloyd was the West Indies captain , and his dismissal led to a sensational collapse . As India battled hard to overhaul the tricky target , old-timers were reminded of how the West Indies batsmen had struggled , chasing 184 for a win in 60 overs and had fallen 40 runs short of the target . Similarly , India kept on losing wickets at regular intervals on Friday and never looked in control of the chase . The coincidence does n't end here. The names Viv Richards and Virat Kohli ended with up identical scores of 33 on the score sheet . India and West Indies were involved in another gripping low scorer the only time they had played at the WACA way back during the 1992 Tri-series. That match ended in a tie - thanks to Sachin Tendulkar whose gentle outswinger kissed tailender Anderson Cummins ' bat before nestling into Mohammad Azharuddin 's hands low down in the slips . Holi gift for Indians A couple of days ago Darren Sammy had his tongue firmly in the cheek when he had said that let India celebrate Holi we 'll celebrate a win. It was not to be as India celebrated both Holi and the victory. It was also double joy for Indian fans back home as they finished off their Holi revelry by noon and then sat back to watch the exciting match. In the end it was double celebrations for them too . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
