World Cup 2015 : Rohit 's two double-hundreds inspired me , says Gayle The author has posted comments on this article IANS | Feb 24 , 2015 , 03.01PM IST West Indies batsman Chris Gayle celebrates scoring a double century during their World Cup match against Zimbabwe in Canberra on Tuesday. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CANBERRA : West Indies opener Chris Gayle , who smashed the first World Cup double-century on Tuesday , said he wanted to get it ever since India 's Rohit Sharma scored two of them in ODIs . Scorecard | List of top-10 knocks in ODIs The 35-year-old smashed 16 sixes and 10 fours to score 215 against Zimbabwe in a Pool B game. This became the highest World Cup score , beating the previous best of Gary Kirsten of South Africa , who made 188 against the United Arab Emirates in 1996 . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " I am very happy to get this first double-hundred and ever since Rohit got two ( ODI double-hundreds ) , I have been hounded to get one as well , " Gayle said after his whirlwind innings at the Manuka Oval . Rohit is the only individual with two double-hundreds to his name , including the highest ODI score of 264 which he scored against Sri Lanka in 2014 . Chris Gayle 's Wagon Wheel from his record innings of 215 ! WATCH it all here ! http : //t.co/q01jOlhXlS # cwc15 # WIvZIM pic.twitter.com/s6OX6ilNtN Gayle , who was not been his best of late , said he was under immense pressure to perform and could not quite believe it after scoring the double hundred . Highest all-time individual scores in World Cup : 215 Chris Gayle vs Zimbabwe in 2015 188 * Gary Kirsten vs UAE in 1996 183 Sourav Ganguly vs Sri Lanka in 1999 181 Viv Richards vs Sri Lanka in 1987 175 * Kapil Dev vs Zimbabwe in 1983 " I said 'you ca n't be serious ? ' I just want to thank god for this knock. I was under pressure to score runs and I kept getting messages from Twitter and on my cell phone. I have never felt this kind of pressure but in the end , I am sure I gave them something to talk about , " said the southpaw . The Jamaican said he wanted to build his innings rather than throw his bat around from the word go . " It was a bit slow at the start , not to mention that it was keeping low. I just tried to take the bull by the horns and hang out there and try and build an innings. After a while I was able to pick a bowler to target and then , in the end , I was out off the last ball , " Gayle , who scored his 22nd ODI century , said . " A lot of time people do n't know what you are going through as I had some issues with injuries. I am also not getting any younger so age is definitely catching up on me , " added Gayle , who with Marlon Samuels ( 133 not out ) recorded the highest ODI partnership of 372 . " Overall , I am really happy and I just want to try and build on this as much as possible. Want to build on this momentum and move ahead as we look towards the South Africa game. " Here is a look at the records broken by Chris Gayle : * First batsman to score a double hundred at World Cup . * Fastest ODI double hundred off 138 balls. Virender Sehwag was the previous fastest off 140 balls . * Fourth batsman to score ODI double hundred . * Equals the record for most sixes an innings - Rohit Sharma and AB de Villiers ' 16 . * Stitched the highest partnership in ODIs ever. Overtaking Rahul Dravid and Sachin Tendulkar 's 331 . * Highest individual score at World Cups. Overtaking Gary Kirsten 's 188 vs UAE . * Registers the third highest individual score in ODIs ever. He is behind Rohit Sharma 's 264 and Sehwag 's 219 . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
