World Cup 2015 : Russell rejoices in Windies rout of Pakistan The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 21 , 2015 , 01.17PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : West Indies celebrated their first win of the 2015 World Cup , with all-rounder Andre Russell saying their rout of Pakistan on Saturday proved there was more to the team than Chris Gayle . The West Indies thrashed Pakistan by 150 runs in Christchurch , with an unbeaten 42 in just 17 balls by man-of-the-match Russell taking them to 310 for six at Hagley Oval . They then rolled Pakistan for 160 in exactly 39 overs , with paceman Russell taking three for 33 . Pakistan 's run chase went off the rails right from the start when they lost four wickets in four balls , with Jerome Taylor at one stage having figures of three wickets for one run in two overs . Their collapse to one for four meant Pakistan recorded the worst start to an innings in the 3,608 match history of one-day internationals . Not that Russell cared , saying victory had changed the mood in the West Indies camp after they became the latest Test nation to be turned over by Ireland first time out . " Everyone is laughing , happy , " Russell said. " From the last game , things did n't go well for us and we just turned up today and wanted to show the world that we are not just a pushover , " he added . " It 's a very good feeling winning a game after losing to Ireland , in that manner . " It just goes to show that the West Indies can dominate and we are here to compete. " Russell was one of several batsmen to make a positive contribution with Denesh Ramdin posting 51 , Lendl Simmons 50 and Darren Bravo 49 before he retired hurt with a hamstring injury . But Gayle , renowned as one of the most destructive openers in the game , failed once again . The Caribbean batting icon was out for four as his average dropped to 14.42 over 19 innings in the 20 months since his last century . But Russell made light of Gayle 's run of low scores by saying : " Chris has been struggling , and we 're still scoring 300. " Russell added that Gayle had n't let his form dampen the team 's morale. " Even if he 's not scoring he 's not miserable , he 's not grumpy. He 's happy , he 's laughing , and he 's cheering everyone on the field , and that 's what we want from a big guy like him , so it 's very good. " West Indies next play Zimbabwe in Canberra on Tuesday before facing pool heavyweights South Africa three days later and defending champions India on March 6 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
