Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 | Points Table Asked what he will miss , Taylor replied : " Not wearing the shirt. I think every international player is extremely proud of putting on his country 's shirt . " I will miss my teammates and the camaraderie that we have , the good and bad times we go through . " It 's been 11 years and I would n't change it for anything. There have been special times through good and bad , " said Taylor , who smashed a brilliant 138 in his team 's 287 all out against India in their concluding World Cup Pool B match at Eden Park on Saturday . Suresh Raina ruined Taylor 's farewell party with an unbeaten 110 as defending champions India overhauled their target with eight balls to spare for a six-wicket win . " Definitely it 's a sense of sadness and sense of disappointment the way we have gone about this tournament , " said Taylor of a Zimbabwe side who won only one of their six games . " Sad because I am leaving my teammates and leaving my home country for a number of years. That is always going to be difficult to comprehend but I think life goes on and you take different challenges and choices but it 's a positive one. " Taylor hoped he matures into a better cricketer in England. " It 's a positive decision that I have taken and I am looking forward to it being a good ride and hopefully I can have some decent successes there and try and become a good cricketer. " Taylor scored 5,258 runs in 167 one-day internationals. He also played 23 Tests and 26 Twenty20 internationals for his country . When Taylor was leaving the field , Zimbabwe and Indian players gave him a warm send-off , which Taylor said was touching . " It was nice from so many Indian players ( Shikhar ) Dhawan , Virat ( Kohli ) and Suresh ( Raina ) came to me and that was touching coming from so many established players. It was a nice gesture . " My teammates also wished me well and thanked me for my contribution and it was enjoyable , it was pretty tough to swallow but it was good. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
