World Cup 2015 : Sammy may play on Saturday despite bad ankle The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 20 , 2015 , 10.36AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : Young Kiwi nets bowler Frazer did not know how to apologize. He simply stood there with a painful expression on his face. He had just bowled a beamer to Darren Sammy , which almost hit the West Indian allrounder on his face. Sammy managed to avoid it but fell down and it took him quite a while to get back to his feet. " OK mate , it happens , " he ups assured the young boy , before taking stance again . That 's Darren Sammy for you. A cricketer who has taken a few blows in his career but always comes up with a smile on his face. He scored 89 in the game against Ireland but it was not enough as West Indies crashed to a humiliating defeat. The allrounder is key to West Indies ' chances against Pakistan , but it 's not yet sure whether he would be fit. He limped off from soccer practice session , did n't bowl and even while batting , was n't at his 100 per cent. " Yes , the ankle is hurting a bit. I have to see how it goes , " Sammy told TOI . In the last few years , Sammy has n't got the recognition he deserves from the West Indies Cricket Board.Despite his seniority and ability to win matches , he was not made the captain even after Dwayne Bravo was removed.The St Lucia man even came close to being dropped from the World Cup squad. " He was included in the World Cup squad because he did well in South Africa , " a source close to the West Indian team said . During West Indies ' game against Ireland , Sammy virtually had to take over captaincy as the Irish went on a rampage. Jason Holder , the new West Indian captain , is merely 23 and is still learning the tricks of the trade while vice-captain Marlon Samuels hardly interacts with the team. In such a situation , Sammy has to do the mentoring job , even though he has no official designation . " You should remember I am not the young Darren Sammy any more. I have a tricky back as well , but I am trying , " Sammy said. The team sources , though , claimed Sammy would play. " It 's a must-win game for us. Even if Sammy has to play on one foot , he will do , " the source said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
