World Cup 2015 : Sangakkara makes history as Sri Lanka crush Scotland The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 11 , 2015 , 04.39PM IST Besides scoring a century , Kumar Sangakkara also set a new record for dismissals by a wicketkeeper moving past the 52 held by Australia 's Adam Gilchrist. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 HOBART : Kumar Sangakkara created history by notching up a record fourth consecutive ODI century that powered Sri Lanka to a crushing 148-run win over Scotland in their final group league match of the ongoing ICC World Cup 2015 here on Wednesday . Scorecard In becoming the first man in history of One-Day Internationals to score centuries in four successive innings , the 37-year-old Sri Lankan veteran together with opener Tillakaratne Dilshan ( 104 ) helped the team put up a mammoth 363 for nine after electing to bat at the Bellerive Oval . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Set a daunting target in the group A match , Scotland 's innings ended at 215 in 43.1 overs , and the minnows have another match to play in the mega-event where they have failed to win a single game so far . Sri Lanka are now second in the points table , behind New Zealand , with four wins in six games. However , the final positions in the group will be known only after the New Zealand-Bangladesh and Australia-Scotland games . The 195-run partnership for the second wicket was Sangakkara and Dilshan 's 20th century stand in ODIs , leaving them second only to Indian legends Sachin Tendulkar and Sourav Ganguly . Playing in the last one-day tournament of his illustrious 15-year career , Sangakkara , in red-hot form in the mega-event , blazed his way to an enterprising 124 off 95 balls , while Dilshan struck a 99-ball 104 . Skipper Angelo Mathews ( 51 ) smashed the second-fastest half-century of this World Cup , off 20 balls. The Islanders though lost a series of wickets towards the end , denying them a 400-plus total . The Scots were off to a disastrous start , losing three wickets with just 44 runs on the board in the 12th over. The game was as good at that point but Freddie Coleman ( 70 ) and skipper Preston Mommsen ( 60 ) shared 118 runs for the fourth wicket to steady the ship . However , both batsmen got out after making fluent half-centuries , each hitting seven boundaries while defying the Lankan bowlers for a while . Richie Berrington made 29 off 22 balls to delay the inevitable . Among the Lankan bowlers , Nuwan Kulasekara returned figures of 3/20 and pace spearhead Lasith Malinga picked up 2/29. Making his debut , 23-year-old rookie fast bowler Dushmantha Chameera , too , finished with three wickets . Kumar Sangakkara is named as Player of the Match as he brings up his FOURTH # cwc15 century in a row ! # SLvSCO # cwc15 pic.twitter.com/2jgVJntvQb — ICC ( @ ICC ) March 11 , 2015 Earlier , Sri Lanka lost opener Lahiru Thirimanne ( 4 ) early but Dilshan , who registered his second century of the tournament , and Sangakkara stitched together a massive second wicket partnership to take the islanders to a commanding total even after the Scottish bowlers pulled things back a little in the end . Leading the run-scorers ' chart , Sangakkara , who recorded his 25th ODI ton , has so far aggregated 496 runs in six innings with Dilshan a distant second with 395 in as many outings. India 's Shikhar Dahwan is third in the batsmen 's list . Sangakkara has been on a rampage with tons coming against Bangladesh ( 105 ) , England ( 117 ) , Australia ( 104 ) and Scotland , and is now averaging a resounding 124 in the event . The Scottish bowlers were in for a leather hunt as Dilshan , whose innings was laced with 10 fours and a six , combined superbly with Sangakkara , who hit 13 fours and four sixes in his knock . Dilshan departed soon after registering his 22nd ODI ton but Sangakkara carried on in the same vein . The left-handed wicketkeeper-batsman got stuck into tall medium-pacer Alasdair Evans ( 2/72 ) in the 36th over to smack a six and four boundaries . But medium-pacer Josh Davey ( 3-63 ) made it count in the powerplays - 36 to 40 overs - to send back Mahela Jayawardene ( 2 ) and then Sangakkara to check the Lankan surge . Mathews wielded the willow to smash a 21-ball 51. Striking four sixes against off-spinner Matt Machan in the 44th over , Mathews recorded the second fastest World Cup fifty after New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum 's 18-ball half-century against England . The last-wicket pair of Nuwan Kulasekara ( 18 not out ) and Dushmantha Chameera ( 12 not out ) also did their bit . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
