World Cup 2015 : Sarfraz proves Pakistan team management bungled The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 8 , 2015 , 11.18AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Eden Park always brings happy memories for Pakistan. It was this venue that saw the birth of a star in Inzamam-ul-Haq in the 1992 World Cup and now they have Sarfraz Ahmed who made his first serious footprints in international cricket on Saturday . The keeper 's 49 , while opening the batting and then world-record equaling six catches on his World Cup debut , went a long way in helping Pakistan win the game . The Pakistan team management , till their last game , was adamant about not playing Sarfraz , but the poor form of opener Nasir Jamshed did n't leave them with any other option . The makeshift opener had to face Dale Steyn , Kyle Abbott and Morne Morkel going at full steam , but Sarfraz never took a backward step . " I am thankful to Pakistan for this opportunity and to all those who supported me , including my family. This is my World Cup debut match and Mushtaq Ahmed had a few good words for me. He told me to go out and enjoy myself , " Sarfraz said . Pakistan coach Waqar Younis praised Sarfraz for his performance , but he still was n't ready to call the 28-year-old anything more than a " makeshift opener " . " I never doubted his abilities. We always knew how good he is. But regarding his opening , I must say he is a makeshift opener , but he 's done a superb job today , " Waqar said . The coach , in fact , gave the impression that he was much in favour of Umar Akmal carrying on as the keeper . " Do n't forget , Umar Akmal , in the last couple of games , has done a superb job. He had five catches in the last game he played. But yes , I am happy for both , " the coach added . Waqar was more effusive of his pace attack that was termed by the rival captain AB de Villiers as " nothing extraordinary " . " AB might not have seen anything extraordinary in our attack because he played pretty well , but I think the pacers bowled really well. If you ask the others in AB 's team , probably they 'll tell you it was not easy to bat against. Anyway , it does n't matter , we have to believe we good enough to compete in this competition , " the coach added . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
