Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Australia are four-time world champions , more than anyone else , while India are the defending champions and have not lost a game so far in the tournament. While India have bowled their opposition out in all the seven previous games , Australia 's bowling line-up of Mitchell Starc , Mitchell Johnson , Josh Hazlewood , James Faulkner and all-rounder Shane Watson is likely to hold an upper-hand in familiar conditions . If media reports are true , the SCG will be a sea of blue re-emphasising the fact that cricket is not a simple game promoted by a single race. As Peter Roebuck once put it , " it is not merely a battle ground between black and white or communism or capitalism. It is a true battle between faith and progress. " Whether it will be a battle of faith and progress , we will come to know. But one thing is for sure -- there wo n't be dearth of passion , aggression and verbal volleys ( call it sledging if you like ) . With the likes of Johnson , David Warner and Starc in the ranks , the Indian team will do well to prepare for some taste of Aussie lingo apart from the chin music . India : India draw its inspiration from the huge following and passion the game evokes amongst its fans. In a country with many religions , cricket is one binding faith . India are likely to field the same team that beat Bangladesh. The team has done remarkably well to script a turnaround in their fortunes after defeats in the Test tour and then the tri-series. As Virat Kohli put it in one of the press conferences ahead of the game , " the difference now is how our bowling attack has come into play in the World Cup , taking 70 wickets in seven games. " With Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav and Mohit Sharma doing well so far , the pace-attack , for a change , looks settled. They will also do well to learn from the exploits of Pakistan 's Wahab Riaz. Riaz 's spell against Australia will give the Indian team 's think-tank some pointers to work on. However , it will be the spin of Ravichandran Ashwin that might hold the key to India 's chances considering the spin-responsive 22-yard strip of the SCG . With Virat Kohli in the thick of action , there wo n't be dearth of sledging. ( AP Photo ) The Indian batsmen have also come to the party. Shikhar Dhawan , Virat Kohli , Rohit Sharma and Suresh Raina have centuries under their belt while skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni has marshalled his resources well . And beyond the glare of Kohlis and Sharmas , Ajinkya Rahane has established himself as the fulcrum around which the Indian batting revolves. The SCG will be an ideal opportunity for the Mumbai-youngster . Watch out for : MS Dhoni. As Michael Vaughan puts it , " MS Dhoni knows how to win World Cups and that goes quite a long way. " Need we say more ? Probable XI : MS Dhoni ( Capt. ) , Rohit Sharma , Shikhar Dhawan , Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , Suresh Raina , Ravindra Jadeja , R Ashwin , Umesh Yadav , Mohit Sharma , Mohammad Shami . Australia : Australian cricket have been strong for over 125 years barring few patches where they dipped a bit. Cricket is officially their national sport , reaching their countryside , homes of farmers , young and old , rich and poor. It is the binding force and when the stage is for a World Cup semifinal it becomes even bigger . Australia have the likes of Glenn Maxwell , David Warner , Aaron Finch and in-form Steven Smith and Michael Clarke in their ranks. However , their biggest concern at the moment would be the form of their openers Warner and Finch. For India , Maxwell will be the biggest concern as the batsman has hit himself into form. India would know what the batsman is capable of . Glenn Maxwell will be the biggest concern for India. ( AP Photo ) The hosts are also expected to name an unchanged side that beat Pakistan in the quarterfinal. Victory would set them for a trans-Tasman final in Melbourne on Sunday . Probable XI : Michael Clarke ( Capt. ) , David Warner , Aaron Finch , Steven Smith , Shane Watson , Glenn Maxwell , Brad Haddin , James Faulkner , Mitchell Johnson , Mitchell Starc , Josh Hazlewood . What they said : Michael Vaughan , former England captain : " A little bit of sledging , banter is okay. I am sure the Indians will give it back in plenty. They are not going to be quiet. Virat and co. will give it back and that 's good for the game. " Michael Clarke , when asked how his players would deal with the pressure : " We 're about to find out. " Weather : Temperature around 28 degree Celsius , partly cloudy . To me Australia are the fav 's to win the World Cup. They will pushed by a resurgent India tmrw , but I think NZ has won everyone 's hearts ! ? ? — Shane Warne ( @ ShaneWarne ) March 24 , 2015 Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
