World Cup 2015 : Scots give Kiwis the chills The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 18 , 2015 , 08.48AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 DUNEDIN : The cry of " Oh no " reverberated inside the stadium when Brendon McCullum won the toss and chose to field on a beautiful sunny day here on Tuesday . The packed house was disappointed that they had been deprived of watching the Kiwis go on a rampage with the bat first , but the contest at the end of the day should have left them satisfied . Scotland , playing in a city founded by Scottish settlers in the mid 19th century , showed the gumption to fight after being reduced to 12/4 by some superb swing bowling by Trent Boult and Tim Southee. A target of 143 was never going to be enough to stop the Kiwis but the Scots fought on valiantly , taking seven New Zealand wickets in the process . The hosts boosted their net run rate by notching up the three-wicket victory in 24.5 overs , but there were a few anxious moments in store for the favourites. It could have got trickier for New Zealand had Scotland held on to all their chances. Brendon McCullum and Corey Anderson were both dropped and even though they were dismissed pretty soon , New Zealand got some necessary breathing space which became crucial in a small run chase . " In a match against one of these top nations and defending such a small total , you can not afford to drop chances.There was lesson to be learnt from the show but we will take heart from this game and go on to push England in the next , " Preston Mommsen , the Scottish captain said . Mommsen also spoke about the quality of the first burst by Boult and Southee , something that Scotland are not used to. The duo got the ball to swing back sharply in conditions that favoured swing and seam and the Scotland top-order had no clue , three of the four falling leg-before . The Scottish fightback started there , with Matt Machan ( 56 ) and Richie Berington ( 50 ) putting up 97 runs for the fifth-wicket. They played close to their body , left a few outside the offstump and looked ready to grind. But the inexperience of the two showed when they tried to get adventurous against Corey Anderson ( 3-18 ) - who generated a good bounce - and perished trying to hook deliveries which got a little too high. " They should have batted on and taken us to a bigger score. It 's part of the learning curve for us , " Mommsen said . The Scottish bowlers , though , stuck to their task and kept taking wickets as New Zealand pushed on the accelerator. Iain Wardlaw ( 3-57 ) got the ball to move around a bit and there was a phase when a couple of more wickets would have put New Zealand in real trouble. But Daniel Vettori showed his experience and took the N e w Zealand ship home . MCCULLUM WANTS BETTER SHOW FROM NEW ZEALAND New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum insisted his team have batting improvements to make ahead of their next match against England after labouring to a three-wicket win over Scotland on Tuesday. New Zealand 's late struggles at Dunedin 's University Oval were in stark contrast to the start of the Pool A match when Scotland were reduced to 12 for four , with seamers Trent Boult and Tim Southee taking two wickets each. " It was a really good performance with the ball -with the bat , we showed glimpses but we have to improve , " said McCullum. " England will be a challenge -they 're hurting ( after losing by 111 runs to Australia ) , they 'll be tough to beat and we 'll have to play incredibly well. " McCullum praised Scotland wh0 posted a relatively decent total of 142 after their early slump. " All credit to Scotland for the way they hung in there. But we 've seen how effective Trent Boult and Tim Southee can be and they were outstanding , " he said . SKIPPER MOMMSEN PRAISES SCOTS ' STIRRING DISPLAY Scotland captain Preston Mommsen said Tuesday his side 's stirring display against New Zealand underscored the value of having so-called " second-tier " nations at the World Cup. Mommsen said his attack had exposed New Zealand 's powerful batting line-up , something Sri Lanka were unable to do when they slumped to a 98-run defeat. " It showed their batters were vulnerable if you 're able to keep them under pressure consistently and put the balls in good areas , as any batter is , " he said. " I 'm proud of the fightback and character we showed , " he said. " I was disappointed with the first half performance , barring Richie and Matthew... the fighting character , that 's something we 're proud of. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
