World Cup 2015 : Shahid Afridi wants happy ending to 19 years of ups and downs The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 18 , 2015 , 11.06AM IST Afridi will quit the 50-overs game after the World Cup. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Pakistan 's superstar all-rounder Shahid Afridi Wednesday vowed to bring the curtain down on his 19-year one-day international career by scripting a happy ending with a World Cup triumph . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The 35-year-old will quit the 50-overs game after the World Cup and he wants his fifth appearance at the global showpiece to be a memorable one . " I want to do what the team demands , " Afridi told AFP , ahead of Friday 's quarterfinal clash against Australia at the Adelaide Oval . " I want to live up to the expectations from the fans and I think that will help the team win. I want a happy ending and I am confident that Pakistan will give its best against Australia. " Afridi admits that Pakistan 's trademark unpredictability could prove to be their secret weapon against Australia having reached the quarterfinals thanks to a four-game win streak which followed two dismal opening losses . " Pakistan is one team which can beat any team and can lose to any team and it has been like this for several years , but everyone knows that on our day we can do the best , " said Afridi , who needs five more wickets to complete 400 in one-dayers . That would make him the only player in all one-day cricket to have scored 8,000 runs and taken 400 wickets . But his current bowling form is disappointing , having taken only two wickets in six World Cup games . " The atmosphere is very good in the dressing room , every player backs the other and the players gel together as they know the value of this tournament. " Afridi said he wants to see younger players coming through to take his place in the team once his career ends . " I have not thought about anything other than calling it a day because I think new players should come to the fore , players who have done well at the domestic level and will carry Pakistan cricket forward , " said Afridi , whose career famously began with the fastest hundred in one-day cricket . Playing only his second game , Afridi hit a 37-ball hundred -- then a world record -- against Sri Lanka in Nairobi , Kenya in 1996 . That record was broken by New Zealand 's Corey Anderson with a 36-ball hundred in 2014 before it was bettered again by South Africa 's AB de Villiers who hit a 31-ball century against the West Indies in January this year . Afridi admitted his career has had its share of ups and downs but has been highly enjoyable . " Playing for 19 years is more than enough. Like any other career it had bad and good times but I played for Pakistan for such a long time which I had never thought would happen , " he said . " Playing five World Cups is a big thing. You perform and you do n't perform , you come under pressure because there are a lot of people who expect a lot from you. That has been part of my career but it has been highly enjoyable. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
