World Cup 2015 : Shaiman Anwar ton takes UAE to 278/9 against Ireland The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 25 , 2015 , 01.04PM IST UAE batsman Shaiman Anwar celebrates after scoring his century during the 2015 Cricket World Cup Pool B match against Ireland. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE : Little-known Shaiman Anwar became the first UAE batsman to notch up a World Cup hundred as the Asian minnows punched above their weight to post a commendable 276 for nine against European giant-killers Ireland in their Pool B match on Wednesday . Scorecard Electing to bowl after winning the toss , the Irish kept it tight for most part of the match and had the UAE tied up in knots before the 35-year-old Anwar 's ( 106 ) maiden ODI ton , combined with number eight Amjad Javed 's lively 35-ball 42 helped them post a rather big total . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The UAE , who lost their lung-opener to Zimbabwe and are lying second from bottom on the points table , were off to a steady start with Amjad Ali ( 45 ) and Andri Berenger ( 13 ) putting on a 49-run opening stand . However , the Irish kept a tight leash on the scoring rate for most part of the innings before Anwar helped the side break the shackles in the company of Javed . Anwar , however , was the most outstanding performer of the day with a craftily-paced knock , which rescued his team and also booked his place in the record books . The veteran , who has modelled his technique on Indian legend Rahul Dravid , had two ODI fifties under his belt before Wednesday 's eye-catching effort . Anwar 's knock was studded with 10 fours and a six and bettered the previous UAE best of 85. His 83-ball stay on the crease was ended by Max Sorenson in the 49th over when he induced an edge from the batsman , which was safely caught by wicketkeeper Gary Wilson . Javed , on the other hand , smashed five fours during his entertaining innings which played a huge role in helping UAE break free. The duo stitched together a partnership of 107 runs for the seventh wicket . Among the bowlers , Sorenson ( 2/60 ) , Alex Cusack ( 2/54 ) , Paul Stirling ( 2/27 ) and Kevin O'Brien ( 2/61 ) shared the spoils . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
