World Cup 2015 : Shikhar Dhawan will be a big threat in knockouts , says Phil Simmons The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 13 , 2015 , 11.27AM IST Dhawan has already completed two centuries in the tournament. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Phil Simmons was a destructive opener during his playing days and he feels it 's the same attacking instincts that make Shikhar Dhawan a special batsman . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " Dhawan is truly a very dangerous opener. He has the ability to score quickly and he has come out of a lean patch to bat really well in the World Cup , " Simmons , who is also the coach of the Ireland team for the last eight years , said . Dhawan has already completed two centuries in the tournament , the second coming against Simmons ' wards on Tuesday. " He is batting well and with a lot of confidence. He will be a big threat for the teams in the knockouts , " Simmons said . Simmons , though , said India " have four to five very good players " in their ranks that make Dhoni 's Devils such a strong unit. " There 's Virat Kohli leading the pack , and then you have Dhoni himself and Dhawan. It 's truly a good side , " Simmons added . He feels Brendon McCullum has been the best opener of the World Cup so far . " I like the way he takes the attack to the opposition. He tries to upset the opposition and the bowler sometimes does n't know where to bowl at him , " Simmons , who has guided Ireland to the brink of the quarters , said . His boys pulled off one of the big upsets by beating West Indies , which threw the group open. Simmons is happy that Ireland won that game , but he ca n't help feeling sad for the state of affairs in West Indies cricket . " I am not part of their cricket set-up but I truly feel bad for them. Sometimes West Indies are really good , the next day they are so unbelievably poor. It 's the lack of consistency that is hurting them , " Simmons said . He still has an extremely high opinion about Chris Gayle , but the West Indian feels it 's the left-hander 's inconsistent run that is hurting West Indies . " Chris is Chris , we know how good he can be , otherwise he would n't have got that double century. But , he too is not getting runs consistently. I am sure he is going to smash a few attacks in IPL , though , " Simmons quipped . When asked about Ireland , the burly Trinidadian said : " If we win three out of five matches , it has to be good. We do n't get too many chances to play against the best in the business , but I think the team has done enough in the World Cup to make the country proud. Of course , we will all be happy if we finally make the knockouts. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
