World Cup 2015 : South African fans searching online more about Indian team The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 21 , 2015 , 05.22PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 GUWAHATI : Ahead of the fourth face-off in the World Cup between India and South Africa , supporters of the Proteas are searching online more about the opponent than their home team . According to global search engine Google , search interest for the home team in South Africa have surprisingly gone down by half in the last few days . " The fans are busy searching for their rival team India , ( which is ) witnessing significant search interest from South Africa before the upcoming clash at MCG , " Google said in its report on search trends . The overall trends show a spike in online searches as team India gets ready to reverse its dismal record against South Africa in previous World Cup matches . India have never won against South Africa in a World Cup , losing to them in 1992 , 1999 and 2011 . " South Africa , often called the most jinxed team in the World Cup , go into this match not as the favourites against title holder India , a team that 's historically been a favoured one when playing at the Melbourne Cricket Grounds , " Google said in the report . The analysis of the trends shows that star batsman Virat Kohli leads the Indian team with highest search interest after his centurion knock against Pakistan last Sunday . " For the Indians , search interest also peaked around MS Dhoni , Rohit Sharma , Suresh Raina and Ravindra Jadeja before the match , " it pointed out . Sachin Tendulkar is the only Indian to have scored a century ( 111 ) against South Africa in World Cup in 2011 , followed by Sourav Ganguly whose top score against South Africa is 97 . Google also said while the Indian pace attack may not be the strongest against South Africa , but Mohit Sharma and Mohammed Shami saw significant spikes in search interest with Sharma attracting five time more searches than usual . " Dale Steyn , who will be leading the pace attack for South Africa , has seen significant interest from fans online , followed by Wayne Parnell and Morne Morkel , " it added . Given the number of Indian fans , search interest for Kohli notably surpasses consolidated search interest for leading pacers from South African bowling attack . Google further said : " Not surprisingly , AB De Villiers leads the South African batsmen with regards to search queries , followed by Hashim Amla , Faf du Plessis , Quinton de Kock and JP Duminy , who are also witnessing growing search interest online. " No South African batsman has scored a ton against India in World Cup with the best being 96 by Jacques Kallis in 1999 . " On an interesting side note , with marketers driving hard to cash in on this opportunity , following a series of popular ads , searches for fireworks in India have been at their highest since New Year 's Eve , " Google said . Meanwhile , Google said Tendulkar will be sharing his views live on a Google hangout during the match break tomorrow and the video will also be telecast live on YouTube . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
