World Cup 2015 : South Africa 'raring to go ' in quarters , says Miller The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 12 , 2015 , 04.22PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 WELLINGTON : South Africa have put their rollercoaster pool performances at the ICC World Cup 2015 behind them and are " raring to go " in the knockout rounds , batsman David Miller said Thursday . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Miller , who scored 49 as the Proteas defeated the United Arab Emirates by 146 runs to secure a quarter-final berth , said South Africa were not dwelling on Pool B losses to India and Pakistan . " We 've had a couple of upsets but I always believe that might happen in group stages , " he said . " But as we move forward , I think we 've shown over the last year and a half the consistency we can play with . " I think here and now , the boys will be raring to go come that quarter-final and preparing really hard for it. " South Africa 's likely quarterfinal opponents are Sri Lanka , the 1996 champions who have a formidable batting line up capable of setting big totals . Pundits such as former Proteas skipper Graeme Smith have questioned South Africa 's ability to chase down targets when batting second , but Miller said it was not a concern . He attributed the shock defeat against Pakistan , when South Africa were all out for 202 chasing 232 , down to bad luck on the night . " This is sometimes a cruel game , it 's the way it goes , " he said. " But we 've performed chasing , so I do n't think there 's any areas where we need to improve . " I think maybe just the execution of certain shots that we played the other night , but nothing more than that. " South African skipper AB de Villiers said he was pleased with his team 's performance against the UAE , when minds could have easily wandered forward to the quarterfinals . " The boy rocked up with a great attitude today , " he said. " We wanted to win and we wanted to play a good game of cricket , which we did. " He was hopeful wicketkeeper-batsman Quinton de Kock would stay in the starting lineup , despite only scoring 26 against the UAE and averaging under eight at the tournament . De Villiers said de Kock was a potential match-winner who was due a big innings and retaining the youngster meant he could avoid donning the gloves himself . " Personally I do n't want to keep , it really puts a lot of pressure on me as a captain , " he said . " I 've got more time without the gloves in hand , feel I can get to my bowlers , communication is much better , so it will be a last resort for us to move in that direction. " UAE captain Mohammad Tauqir said he was pleased his bowlers restricted South Africa to fewer than 400 runs and his batters lasted 47.3 overs against a potent bowling attack . " Playing almost 50 overs against them is a great learning experience for our side and gives a lot of confidence to us and our batters , " he said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
