World Cup 2015 : 'Spirit of cricket ' talk of the town The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 23 , 2015 , 10.32AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : The anecdotes flowed , so did the wine , and cricket felt truly happy and old-school. In a far corner of a desolate Gloucester Street in sleepy Christchurch , four cricket experts were debating whether the 'spirit of cricket is alive' . Noted cricket journalist Stephen Brinkley and former England opener Nick Knight spoke in favour of the motion while Stephen Fleming and famous Kiwi radio commentator Bryan Waddle were against . While Brinkley opened it up with British eloquence and references to Andrew Flintoff walking upto Brett Lee to console him after a two-run win in the dramatic Edgbaston Test of the 2005 Ashes series , Fleming came up with his own experiences where he felt the spirit of cricket had been compromised. He referred how Steve Waugh , time and again , refused to walk after nicking and admitted the way New Zealand , under his captaincy , intentionally slowed down in a run-chase against South Africa to throw Australia out of a Tri-series . There was no mincing of words , no suppression of truth ; it was all out in the open. Fleming came up with a gem when he referred to a Basin Reserve Test when Javagal Srinath hit him on the helmet. " Srinath muttered something in half Hindi half Tamil which I thought to be an abuse and said something back to him.But Srinath , at the end of the over , asked me , 'Fleming , I was asking are you OK ? ' I stared blankly at him and he politely asked again , 'are you feeling unwell'. I did n't say anything , but I knew that I had done something that was not in the spirit of cricket. " Knight , too , came up with his stories and he defended Sachitra Senanayeke , who had Mankaded Jos Buttler in an ODI in England. " I was commentating in the game and I knew how many times he was warned. Buttler had scored a century in the earlier game and the Lankans had warned him. Not for once the spirit was compromised , which was debated so much. " There were references to Don Bradman , the Aussie gamesmanship , WG Grace and the more recent David Warner incidents , but it was all in good humour . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
