World Cup 2015 : Sri Lanka bat against South Africa in quarterfinal The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 18 , 2015 , 09.15AM IST Sri Lanka 's Kusal Perera looks back to see he is out caught off the bowling of South Africa 's Kyle Abbott during their World Cup quarterfinal match. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Sri Lanka captain Angelo Mathews won the toss and elected to bat against South Africa in the first World Cup quarterfinal at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Wednesday . Scorecard South Africa were looking to win their first World Cup knockout match , with Sri Lanka , the 1996 champions and runners-up in 2007 and 2011 bidding for a third straight appearance in the final . It was no surprise Mathews opted to bat first given that , after morning cloud cover evaporated , conditions appeared ideal for run-scoring on a good pitch . South Africa brought back batsman Faf du Plessis and Kyle Abbott came in for fellow paceman Vernon Philander , who had been struggling with a hamstring injury . Hours before this match , Sri Lanka left-arm spinner Rangana Herath was ruled out of the rest of the tournament with a finger injury with his replacement , off-spinner Tharindu Kaushal , whose solitary Test appearance came against New Zealand in Wellington in December last year , handed a debut . Kusal Perera came back to open the innings with Lahiru Thirimanne dropping down the order , with Dushmantha Chameera , a 147km/h seamer , a member of a pace attack featuring Lasith Malinga . Sri Lanka came into this match with veteran batsman Kumar Sangakkara in prime form after scoring a record four hundreds in successive one-day internationals . South Africa captain AB de Villiers has been in the runs as well , with his last appearance at the SCG yielding a stunning 162 not out off just 66 balls against the West Indies in the pool phase . Whichever side wins this match will play either New Zealand or the West Indies , who meet on Saturday , in a March 24 semi-final in Auckland . Teams South Africa : Hashim Amla , Quinton de Kock ( wkt ) , Faf du Plessis , Rilee Rossouw , AB de Villiers ( capt ) , David Miller , JP Duminy , Dale Steyn , Kyle Abbott , Morne Morkel , Imran Tahir Sri Lanka : Kusal Perera , Tillakaratne Dilshan , Kumar Sangakkara ( wkt ) , Mahela Jayawardene , Angelo Mathews ( capt ) , Lahiru Thirimanne , Thisara Perera , Nuwan Kulasekara , Tharindu Kaushal , Dushmantha Chameera , Lasith Malinga Umpires : Rod Tucker ( AUS ) , Nigel Llong ( ENG ) TV umpire : Richard Kettleborough ( ENG ) Match referee : David Boon ( AUS ) Weather : Sunny , possibly clouding over later with chance of showers. Maximum temperature 31 Celsius . Pitch report : Promises to be a slow , spin friendly surface. Any cloud cover will assist faster bowlers otherwise batsmen should be able to hit through the line with confidence . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
