World Cup 2015 : Sri Lanka fret over Mathews ' injury in Scotland win The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 11 , 2015 , 06.37PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 HOBART : Angelo Mathews is to undergo a scan on his Achilles tendon on Thursday after the Sri Lanka captain hurt himself in the 148-run victory over Scotland to join his team 's fast growing list of injured players at the ongoing World Cup . Mathews blasted six sixes in his 21-ball 51 with the bat but spent much of the second half of the team 's last Pool A match at Bellerive Oval in the dressing room . " I have got sore Achilles tendon , " the 27-year-old all-rounder told the presentation ceremony after his team 's comprehensive win in their last pool match . " So management felt it was wise to stay out of the field and take bit of caution. " The 1996 champions are already battling with a spate of injuries that has already forced a fourth injury replacement . Batsman Dimuth Karunaratne and Dinesh Chandimal , all-rounder Jeevan Mendis and fast bowler Dhammika Prasad have had their World Cup campaigns cut short by injuries but Mathews had no such fears . " I do n't think so. It was pretty sore but then the physio thought just not risk , got to assess in the next couple of days. " His deputy Lahiru Thirimanne shared his optimism as Sri Lanka bid for their second World Cup title . " I think he is cramped up at the moment. Hopefully he will be ok. I think he 's going for a scan tomorrow , " Thirimanne told reporters after the match . Amid the injury gloom , outgoing hero Kumar Sangakkara 's red-hot form was a source of inspiration for the Sri Lankan players . Sangakkara , who will quit one-dayers after the World Cup , became the first batsman to hit four consecutive ODI hundreds and fans believe Sri Lanka would sorely miss their batting mainstay who is still good enough to carry on . " Sangakkara is getting better and better each and every game , " Mathews said of the 37-year-old stumper-batsman . " I 've almost gone on my knees and begged him not to retire but unfortunately he has called it a day and we got to respect his decision . " He 's served the team , the country for such a long time , we 're really thankful for the service. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
