World Cup 2015 : Starc wants to repeat blistering form against Afghanistan The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 1 , 2015 , 02.20PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Mitchell Starc has no desire to be stood down for Wednesday 's World Cup clash against Afghanistan in Perth after his six-wicket blitz just failed to nudge the four-time champions past New Zealand . With Australia expected to sweep past Afghanistan , there has been talk they might 'keep their power dry ' by resting Starc ahead of the sterner challenge set to be provided by Sri Lanka in Sydney a week on Sunday in a match that could have a key bearing on the quarter-final line-up . But Starc , who took six for 28 in Australia 's nail-biting one-wicket loss to New Zealand at Eden Park on Saturday , wants to keep charging in against Afghanistan on a WACA pitch which traditionally favours fast bowlers . " We 'll see how everyone pulls up , we 've got a training session or two before our next game so our focus is on Wednesday and winning that game , " said Starc . " I 'm always happy to play cricket. You never want to rest. It 's about making sure our recoveries as a squad ( are OK ) . We 've got two long flights. " After Wednesday 's game , Australia will play Sri Lanka before completing their group programme against Scotland in Hobart on March 14 . Meanwhile , Starc backed Australia spearhead Mitchell Johnson to bounce back despite his fellow left-arm paceman being carted for none for 68 in six overs by the Black Caps . Starc , 25 , even revealed he asked Johnson 's advice when Australia needed one more wicket to win the game . " I went to him for those last two balls as well , because he 's been a great leader for a long time , " Starc said . " He 's been in outstanding form for nearly two years now. He 's definitely our leader and the three or four young blokes in this World Cup squad are learning off him . " He 's the bloke that we go to. Mitchy 's definitely that spearhead and we 're just happy to back him up. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
