World Cup 2015 : Steve Smith 's golden summer keeps on getting better The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 26 , 2015 , 06.00PM IST Steven Smith acknowledges the crowd as he walks off the field after being caught out for 105 runs during the ICC World Cup semifinal match in Sydney. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Steve Smith 's golden summer just keeps on getting better. Australia 's new run-scoring machine just ca n't seem to do any wrong and now he 's off to the ICC World Cup 2015 final . Scorecard | Match in Pics | As it happened : India vs Australia Smith has been piling on the runs and breaking records all summer long. And on Thursday , in one of the biggest matches of his blossoming career , he did it again , scoring a match-winning century in the World Cup semifinal against India . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Smith 's 105 was a composed and perfectly-constructed innings. He came to the crease early after Australia lost David Warner in the fourth over and quickly settled the host nation 's nerves . The 25-year-old reached his fourth straight half century at the World Cup in 53 balls then his hundred off 89 balls , which he brought up with a six and a four off successive balls . He departed soon after but the job had been done. Australia went on to post a massive total of 328-7 and India could only manage 233 in reply . " We thought 330 was around par. We knew we had to bowl and field well , " Smith said after being named man of the match. " The boys did a terrific job tonight. Bring on Melbourne. " Australia will play New Zealand in the final in Melbourne on Sunday . For Smith , his century continued his amazing run of form with the bat this summer. In the four-test series against India , which started in November , he scored a century in every match . In the months leading up to the World Cup , he also scored one-day international centuries against South Africa and England before notching his first World Cup hundred on Thursday . And for good measure , he also pulled off a brilliant piece of fielding , running out Ravindra Jadeja with a direct hit . Smith 's extraordinary run has coincided with his surprise promotion to the Australian captaincy . When regular skipper Michael Clarke hobbled out of the first Test against India with a hamstring injury , Smith was given the nod as Australia 's 45th Test skipper and has n't looked back . " It 's nice to contribute to a few wins. It was a pretty big stage tonight , semi-final of a World Cup. , " Smith said . " I 'm just happy we got over the line in the end . " I 'm just looking forward to Melbourne. It got to be a hell of a day. " Smith was always destined for greatness but even his most loyal supporters have been astounded by his rapid rise . He was picked for Australia 's Test team in mid 2010 , aged 21 , starting his career as a promising leg-spin bowler and middle-order batsman . But he was dropped from the Test team in early 2011 and took almost two years to fight his way back in , but returning as a top-order batsman with an insatiable appetite for scoring runs . Now , Smith is dreaming of one more hundred , in the World Cup final . " I hope so , hopefully another big hundred would be nice , " he said . " It 's going to be an amazing moment , to play a World Cup final against New Zealand at the MCG. Ca n't wait to get down there. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
