World Cup 2015 : Subdued Virat Kohli stays away from media The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Mar 6 , 2015 , 08.26AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 PERTH : It was a quiet and subdued. Virat Kohli in the nets two days after he was embroiled in an unprovoked spat with an Indian journalist. Kohli did not talk much to his fellow players and was sedate even after completing his stint in the nets . Not once did he look in the direction where the media contingent was parked. Even as the other batsmen were awaiting their turn in the nets , Kohli had had enough and went into hibernation in the dressing room till it was time to take the bus back to the hotel . How to hook the Dhoni way It 's not often that one sees MS Dhoni proactive in the nets. But on Thursday at the WACA , the Indian skipper was at hand to give tips to other batsmen on how to play the hook and pull. The beneficiaries were Suresh Raina , Ambati Rayudu and Ajinkya Rahane . Dhoni , with his pads on and bat in hand , first showed them how to hook off the back foot , which is the norm. But he also showed them the technique of hooking the short ball when one is already committed on the front foot. The trick , according to Dhoni , is the transfer of body weight from front to back foot with a quick swirl of the body. Dhoni repeated the short a couple of times for the benefit of the trio . Happy Holi , Team India ! A handful of Indian fans , who had gathered outside the area where the Indians were having their nets session , kept shouting and wishing " Happy Holi " to the players. The players , of course , were too engrossed in training to notice. It was only after they had finished their stint that they waved back at the fans . Mohit avoids serious injury Mohit Sharma got hit on his right hand by one of the local net bowlers while batting. It seemed a nasty blow as he left the batting session midway to put an icepack on the area. Later , as a precautionary measure , he underwent an X-ray scan of the area. Luckily for India , Mohit is still available for selection . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
