World Cup 2015 : Superman AB almost missed West Indies game The author has posted comments on this article Ruchir Mishra , TNN | Feb 28 , 2015 , 09.27AM IST South Africa 's AB de Villiers hits the ball for six runs during the Cricket World Cup Pool B match against the West Indies in Sydney. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : As AB de Villiers went berserk against the hapless West Indians on Friday , social media was abuzz with suggestions that he should be barred from playing against humans . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 While that may not be plausible , it 's interesting to note that the South African captain almost missed this game after spending a sleepless night battling with a stomach upset . " When we boarded the bus , he was fifty-fifty to play the game. He was vomiting , he had diarrhea and had no energy to even stand , forget about playing and then he walks and play that kind of an innings. There 's hardly anything this man ca n't do on the cricket field , " South African Performance Analyst Prasanna Agoram told TOI from Sydney , where AB struck a 66-ball 162 , the second fastest hundred in the World Cup . There 's something even more fascinating about the 31-year-old though. While almost every batsman turns to technology to finetune and hone his game , AB does n't even watch his own video dismissals . " Whatever technical corrections he wants to make , he does them all by himself , sometimes even during the game. Over the last five years , he is the one South African player , who has seen his batting less than anyone else. The likes of Dale Steyn , Hashim Amla , Morne Morkel , Imran Tahir and the others watch their videos the very same day. David Miller watches right after he comes out of the ground. But this man whether he scores a 100 or a duck , he hardly bothers to see if he has done any wrong , " Agoram , who has also worked with the likes of Virat Kohli , Rohit Sharma , Ravindra Jadeja and others during their junior days , said . So what kind of help does AB need ? " Some players come for technical assistance ; some players come for tactical assistance but AB watches only the trends at the venue. For example , what is a winning score at Sydney. If it 's 300 , how it should be approached ; where should we be in the first 10 overs etc. I give par score for each venue and he , along with the coach , works out a plan to achieve it , " he said . If AB has transformed into a superman bat , a lot of credit should go to Gary Kirsten ; he gave him total freedom to play his game after he became SA coach in 2011. " Gary started believing in him more than anyone else and gave him full freedom to express himself. The same formula is being followed by current coach Russell Domingo , who feels AB can do anything at any stage of the game. AB has been given freedom to do whatever he wants . " If you see , when he broke the world record for the fastest ODI century against West Indies before the World Cup , he batted at No. 3. Today he batted No. 5. There 's no fixed batting spot for him. He judges the situation and acts accordingly. Domingo is using AB very well so far , " Agoram explained . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
