Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Taking the Indian bowlers by the sword after being put into bat , Taylor smashed the white ball around the small Eden Park ground , cracking 15 boundaries and five sixes in his 110-ball stay . Having scored his first 50 off 64 deliveries , Taylor scored his next 88 runs in only 46 balls as the three-figure mark was reached in 99 deliveries . It was his eighth ODI century and highest by any Zimbabwean and also the first against India in this edition of the mega event . He got a standing ovation from the Indian supporters as the likes of Suresh Raina , Virat Kohli and Shikhar Dhawan congratulated the 29-year-old , who is migrating permanently to England after this match due to financial constraints . This was also one of the matches where Indian spinners Ravichandran Ashwin ( 1/75 in 10 overs ) and Ravindra Jadeja ( 0/71 in 10 overs ) bore the brunt of the mayhem created by Taylor . The pace trio held their own once again , as young Mohit Sharma ( 3/48 in 10 overs ) , Mohammed Shami ( 3/48 in 9 overs ) and Umesh Yadav ( 3/43 in 9.5 overs ) did well as the final five wickets went for 47 runs after Zimbabwe were 241 for five at one stage . Taylor was well-supported by Sean Williams ( 50 ) as they added 93 for the fourth wicket while another 109 for the fifth wicket was added in company of Craig Ervine ( 27 ) after Zimbabwe were reduced to 33 for three in 11 overs . At the start Hamilton Masakadza ( 2 ) , Chamu Chibhabha ( 7 ) and Solomon Mire ( 9 ) were sent back by the three seamers as Zimbabwe were reduced to 33 for three in 11 overs . It was time when Taylor was joined by Sean Williams as the two initiated a recovery process . Stand-in captain Taylor showed positive intent after a cautious start while Williams held anchor at one end . The first boundary came in the 17th delivery he faced as it was hit over long-off for a boundary . Among all the batsmen who have faced the duo of Ashwin-Jadeja in the tournament , the Taylor-Williams combination will stand for the manner in which they handled the Indian spin twins . Taylor took a liking for Jadeja as he swept him on a number of occasions and the moment he dropped short gave him the charge . The right-hander was also quick to pick Ashwin 's 'doosras ' as he reverse swept him for two boundaries in one over . As Taylor gave the charge , even Williams grew in confidence as he hit three sixes in the region between mid-wicket and deep mid-wicket off Ashwin . The duo added 93 runs for the fourth wicket in 17.3 overs. Williams completed a well-deserved 50 off 55 balls before offering a low return catch to Ashwin. Williams had three sixes and three fours in his 57-ball knock . But once Williams departed , Taylor upped the ante further as it started raining sixes one after another . In fact all the sixes that Taylor hit were after his half-century mark as the length balls and the short of length balls ended up in the stands . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
