World Cup 2015 : Taylor 's loss reflects Zimbabwe rot , says Price The author has posted comments on this article Ruchir Mishra , TNN | Mar 12 , 2015 , 11.04PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Ray Price played his cricket with some of Zimbabwe 's golden generation of players. When the former left-arm spinner burst on to the scene in 1999 , he shared the dressing room with the likes of the Flower brothers , Heath Streak , Eddo Brandes , Alastair Campbell , Neil Johnson , Murray Goodwin and others. There was no shortage of guidance . Zimbabwe Cricket since then has gone from bad to worse. On Thurday , Brendon Taylor joined the long list of talented cricketers who have left Zimbabwe for better options in county circuit. No wonder Price is unhappy with the situation . " Zimbabwe Cricket does n't understand the importance of players. You can replace administrators but not players. Even for a country like India , to find another Virat Kohli would be very difficult. ZC needs to understand that we do n't have a large pool of players. Brendon is a key player in every format for Zimbabwe. His absence is a big hole. If you take his 121 out of what Zimbabwe scored against Ireland , we would have been beaten by very big margin , " Price told TOI from Harare . The 38-year-old blames the poor administration of Zimbabwe Cricket ( ZC ) for this mess. " The International Cricket Council ( ICC ) has been helping administrators and not players. That money needs to go to players. They need to feel secure. Countries like Ireland , UAE , and Scotland are playing good cricket and if we continue to lose players we will be losing to these teams soon . " They 've got a good coach in Dav Whatmore but who will he coach if there is no talent ? It 's more to do with the money. Players should be getting salaries on time. Your career as a player is very short. When you finish your career as a player , you are left with no money to buy your house or do something else. So I do n't blame the players , " he said . Zimbabwe are not only losing players but the support staff as well. " Look how well Bangladesh seamers did against England. Rubel Hossain bowled so well and I am sure it has a lot to do with Heath ( Streak ) . Grant Flower is doing a great job with Pakistan. He has helped Younis and other young guys. Pakistan physiotherapist Brad Robinson is Zimbabwean. You look at South Africa , Australia , New Zealand and Sri Lanka - they are all using their former players to help their team and pass on the knowledge. We seem to be leaving those people alone. Heath Streak , Grant Flower and Andy Flower are big losses for us . Price feels many Zimbabwe players could have had longer careers with a little bit of support from the administration. " Heath could have played a little bit longer. Also the likes of the Flower brothers , Paul Strang , Andy Blignaut , Neil Johnson , Murray Goodwin , Brian Murphy , Travis Friend , Trevor Gripper. Garry Balance is now playing for England. You make a team out of that. It could have given good sides a run for their money , " Price said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
