World Cup 2015 : Team India 's bench strength a cause for worry The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 19 , 2015 , 09.39AM IST Ambati Rayudu is the only one India can fall back on in case any batsman or Dhoni has an injury or goes into a form slump. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : The Indian team management is keeping its fingers crossed on the form and fitness of their batsmen. The team does not have too many options if a frontline batsman loses form or is injured. The bench strength is lop-sided . Of the four players on the bench , three are bowlers and only one is a batsman , incidentally also a part-time wicketkeeper who will have to fill in for MS Dhoni in case the skipper suffers an injury . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Ambati Rayudu is the only one India can fall back on in case any batsman or Dhoni has an injury or goes into a form slump , like the team did in the tri-series when Rohit Sharma was out for a couple of weeks with a sore hamstring. Even when Shikhar Dhawan and Rayudu himself were woefully out of form , the Indian team had no option but to continue with them as there was no fit batsman among the reserves . Of the three bowlers in reserve , there has been question mark over Bhuvneshwar Kumar , who has been more injured than fit on the tour. The other two , all-rounder Stuart Binny and left-arm spinner Axar Patel , performed well in the tri-series but have been relegated to the background . The Indian team management is in no mood to disturb the winning combination when India take on South Africa here at the MCG on Sunday . " As of now we have no plan to change the winning combination , unless there is an injury. We are happy with the performance of the players and will use the same XI in the match against South Africa , " said a team official . When he was asked what the fall-back option would be if a batsman suffered injury , he said there was a provision to replace an injured player in the middle of the tournament . " These days it is not difficult to summon a player at a short notice. So there are no issues , " he said . But plucking a batsman from the domestic circuit back home and thrusting him into a mega-event , that too in tough conditions in Australia , is not an ideal situation. This is why some experts feel India ought to have kept Murali Vijay in the reserves in place of one of the bowlers , especially Axar Patel , who is more of an understudy to Jadeja at the moment . During the tri-series , India had the option of two extra seamers in Mohit Sharma and Dhawal Kulkarni. Their presence was a blessing as three bowlers were on the sick list. Ishant Sharma , Bhuvi and Jadeja were carrying injuries from the Test series while batsman Rohit Sharma had pulled his hamstring in the first match against Australia after hammering a brilliant century here in Melbourne . With Ishant Sharma having returned home , Mohit has made the most of the opportunities and has become an integral part of the bowling unit , while Kulkarni - who continues to be with the team - has ended up as a nets bowler. At least he is at hand to replace any bowler who might break down during the tournament . There is no such luxury if a batsman suffers an injury and is ruled out of the tournament . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
