MS Dhoni hits a six during their World Cup match against Zimbabwe at Eden Park in Auckland. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MELBOURNE : Rule books were never really MS Dhoni 's thing. Had he followed any , he 'd have probably known there 's a 'V ' to the art of batting. And we may never have seen him play that helicopter shot . Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 That his methods have served him rather well , especially in ODIs , is illustrated by an astonishing number - Dhoni averages a whopping 109 in the second innings in ODIs in matches won. Dhoni has played 59 such innings till now , remaining unbeaten on 38 occasions - a highly impressive set of figures that only confirm his status as perhaps the most dangerous 'finisher ' in the world . In terms of overall averages for a finisher , he was third only to Shane Watson and Michael Bevan until the 2011 World Cup. In the last four years though , he 's surpassed both to sit at the top of the finishers ' table with a remarkable quality that few possess - the art of spacing out a 50-over chase . Watson 's struggling but it 's likely Bevan might disagree with the assessment. He played at a time when One-day rules were different , the venues he played most of his matches at had with bigger boundaries and the attacks more threatening leading to less disparity between bat and ball . Yet , what makes the case for the Indian skipper is the fact that he 's led the team in all formats for seven years now , overseen its transition while going about the job and has played 90 Test matches compared to Bevan 's 18 . In addition to this , Bevan finished matches for a team brimming with match-winners. Dhoni finished matches for a team with either ageing men or learning youngsters. Credit has to go where it 's due . In terms of runs scored in the second innings , One-day heavyweights Sachin Tendulkar , Sanath Jayasuriya , Jacques Kallis and Brian Lara lead the list. But where second innings winning average alone is concerned , Dhoni 's presence have reached legendary levels. Coming back to the rule book , quite the opposite of Dhoni is the International Cricket Council ( ICC ) - the sport 's governing body that loved playing with rules. They 've changed the parameters of the One day game multiple times. The last time ICC changed rules was post the 2011 World Cup. But Dhoni has gone ahead and adapted to the changes to remain a potent force in the format . And he does n't flinch from admitting that rule changes have helped batsmen. Who else would talk about the missing fielder at deep point of deep square-leg after making a big score ? " When there 's one extra player outside , you might mistime one in the whole innings , and it 's that fielder in the deep who takes the catch. But now with him not being there , a few are mistimed ( strokes ) and all of a sudden you see a batsman timing a lot of deliveries ( after spending some time at the crease ) , " he says . The marauder of the cricket ball that he has always been , the Twenty20 rollercoaster turned him into the monster of a late-order batsman that he 's today. Dhoni , for his part , credits that aspect to innovation , coming from players who play " those kinds of shots " that make way for more runs. The helicopter shot ? He does n't mention it . Dhoni finding his touch , first with the gem of a chase against the West Indies and now against Zimbabwe , brings back the missing cog in the Indian wheel that had set the ball rolling for them some years ago . On Saturday , he spoke briefly about how exactly he goes around figuring a successful chase. " When you take the big score and break it into small targets and you keep achieving those targets , it gives you confidence. Also , a factor is who 's bowling well and who can you tar get ? It sounds really complicated , but more often than not when you are in those situations it 's the subconscious that is working , " says Dhoni . So , what are the complications ? Finishing a chase would mean counting the number of balls and wickets left , figuring out when to opt for the batting Powerplay , keeping track of which bowler has how many overs left , deciding on which bowlers to go after , keeping an eye on the field settings , not allowing the pace of the run-flow to drop , not allowing the temperament to waver , opting for the right time to go for the big shots and so on . When Dhoni says it 's complicated , Bevan may now agree . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
