World Cup 2015 : The 'God ' knew it , Sachin Tendulkar prediction on semis spot on The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 27 , 2015 , 03.33PM IST " I ca n't pinpoint any one team but there are a few competitive teams. I would like to name Australia , South Africa , New Zealand ( as a dark horse ) , and India , " said Sachin Tendulkar. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : He is n't called the 'God of cricket ' for nothing and Sachin Tendulkar lived up to the title by accurately predicting the cricket World Cup semifinalists . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Much before the tournament began , Tendulkar picked India , Australia , New Zealand and South Africa as the last four for the showpiece and the line-up turned out exactly that a month later . Australia beat India to enter the final , while New Zealand edged past South Africa to make it a final of the co-hosts . Tendulkar had made his prediction during the launch of his autobiography 'Playing It My Way ' in London last month . He was asked to pick his world champion but the Indian limited himself to naming the semifinal line-up . " I ca n't pinpoint any one team but there are a few competitive teams. I would like to name Australia , South Africa , New Zealand ( as a dark horse ) , and India , " said Tendulkar . That 's not all , the 41-year-old retired batsman had also somewhat predicted England 's flopshow . " Anything is possible at this point , but going by the current form England will not be that competitive. " In fact , " No , not really , " was Tendulkar 's reply when he was asked whether the English would make the semifinals of the mega event . The accurate assessment has led to Tendulkar being compared with German octopus Paul who rose to fame in the 2010 FIFA World Cup for picking the right winners through the tournament , including the eventual champions Spain . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
