World Cup 2015 : The making of Indian spearhead Mohammed Shami The author has posted comments on this article Avijit Ghosh , TNN | Mar 20 , 2015 , 08.43AM IST Mohammed Shami took his wickets tally in this World Cup to 17 , the highest for any bowler. ( AP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 AMROHA : The lean middle-aged gentleman had come with his teenage son on a summer evening. " My son can bowl really fast. He terrorizes batsmen in his village. I want you to coach him , " he said . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 It was n't an unusual request. Over the years Badruddin Siddiqui , the coach at Moradabad 's Subhash Chandra Bose stadium , would find shopkeepers and babus , farmers and cops -rough and ready men of western UP -approaching him with similar requests. They all believed their sons were special , the next Tendulkar or Brett Lee , possibly even better . Badruddin looked at the lad. For his age , a callow 14-15 , he looked built to last. He was wearing a T-shirt , track pants and sneakers. " Where 's your all-white kit ? " the coach asked. " I do n't have one , " the boy replied. " I 'll buy it soon. " Badruddin asked him to bowl. The teenager did n't measure his run-up. He just trudged 20-22 steps , hurtled in and bowled. " The first ball was wide but pretty sharp , " recalls the coach . " Several wides followed before he got one on the mark. But every ball he bowled for the next 30 minutes was of the same high speed. Usme jaan thi. " " Fast bowler mein aur kuchch ho na ho jaan to honi hi chahiye. I told him he would have to practice at least six hours every day. He replied he would practice even more. " Before leaving , the youngster gave his name : Mohammed Shami . " Shami broke one of the stumps with one of his deliveries on the day he first bowled in front of the man who would become his coach , Badruddin , " recalls the speedster 's father , Tauseef Ahmed , a well-heeled farmer with 22 acres of land where mango and guava orchards grow in Amroha district 's Sahaspur village , about 20 km from the ground . Ironically , neither Badruddin nor Tauseef are sure of the year. It was 2004 or may be 2005. For the next few days , Shami was just asked to run , exercise , get fitter. Many kids get impatient at this stage , says the coach. But Shami was different. He followed the drill to the D. " He stood out immediately for his work ethic , " says Badruddin , who in his playing days was " a medium pacer who could also bat " . It has been a long journey for Shami from an enthusiastic teenager to a world-beater. ( AFP Photo ) Much before IPL , Moradabad had its own 20-over league. Two teams would be set up from the boys who trained at the stadium. The coach named Shami in one of them. He failed in the first game but took five wickets in the next . Badruddin remembers two attributes of his most famous ward. " Even those days , Shami had a decent in-cutter. And after a match ended , he would ask for the old balls. " Shami was addicted to shining one side of an old ball. Even while walking in the bylanes of his village Sahaspur , he would toss the ball in the air. " He had a certain junoon , a madness , about him , " says Badruddin . A year later , the coach decided to take him for the Uttar Pradesh under-19 trials in Kanpur. " Shami made it to the final round. But in the end , the selectors patted him on the back and said , 'work hard and come back next year ' , " recalls Badruddin . " Shami was absolutely gutted. I was about 20 meters away. It seemed like a mile for him. He could hardly walk. When we came back to Moradabad , he did n't come to practice for 3-4 days. I had to counsel him , make him aware that the road to success is n't exactly strewn with roses , " says Badruddin . Shami started playing again. " That 's when I got a call from Dalhousie Athletic Club , Kolkata. They needed a fast bowler. I spoke to his father. He said , 'how can I send him so far ? ' I told him , 'if he becomes a top cricketer , he will be playing away from home anyway'. " Shami 's rise in Kolkata has been well chronicled. What 's little known is that Sourav Ganguly provided critical help at this stage . " Shami got selected for Bengal 's under-22 squad but never got to play. One day , Dada asked for some net bowlers. After playing Shami 's first ball , Dada asked him , 'where do you play ? ' When he said he was among the reserves in the u-22 team , Ganguly was shocked. After the nets , he spoke to Shami for about 30 minutes. He must have called some people in CAB because after that Shami got to play in U-22. He got five wickets. It was a turning point for him , " says Tauseef . Since those early days , Shami has improved beyond recognition. But the fast bowler has also brought a fundamental change in the life of his coach. He laughs , " Now most of my new students are wannabe pacemen. Shami ko coach karke fast bowler ke coach ka stamp lag gaya. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
