World Cup 2015 : Thirimanne , Sangakkara score tons to thrash England The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 1 , 2015 , 11.17AM IST Sri Lankan Lahiru Thirimanne ( right ) is congratulated by Kumar Sangakkara on scoring a century against England during their World Cup 2015 Group A match in Wellington. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 WELLINGTON : Kumar Sangakkara and Lahiru Thirimanne struck fluent centuries to help Sri Lanka outplay a hapless England by 9 wickets in a Pool A ODI match of the cricket World Cup on Sunday . Scorecard | Points Table Chasing 310 for a win at the Westpac Stadium , Sri Lanka looked comfortable from the very start after a 100-run opening partnership and then Thirimanne ( 139 not out ) and Sangakkara ( 117 not out ) managed an unbeaten 212-run stand to help the islanders canter to their target in 47.2 overs . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The duo combined well to make the James Anderson-led bowling attack not only look ordinary but also put up a commanding batting display in their record second-wicket partnership against England in ODIs . Opener Tillakaratne Dilshan ( 44 ) was the only casualty in an otherwise supreme batting show -- off-spinner Moeen Ali being the beneficiary of the lone wicket to fall . The 25-year-old Thirimanne , who was dropped on 3 off Stuart Broad in the 4th over of the innings , capitalised on the spill to become the youngest Sri Lankan to score a century in a World Cup. His 143-ball knock was studded with 13 fours and 2 sixes - hit the winning six . Sangakkara showed his class once again to register a chanceless 23rd ODI hundred , his 86-ball knock laced with 11 fours and 2 sixes . Sri Lanka though were guilty of dropping more than a couple of catches in the England innings but their effort with the bat put a curtain on all the shortcomings . Earlier electing to bat , England rode on Joe Root 's 121 to post 309 for six in 50 overs and a quickfire 19-ball unbeaten 39 from Jos Buttler in the end raised English hopes of a good showing . But that was not to be as Sri Lanka looked unfazed after what looked an ordinary bowling effort , to make the chase look simple and register their third win of the tournament . After losing their opener against New Zealand , the Angelo Mathews-led side side has certainly done well to post three wins on a trot , against Afghanistan , Bangladesh and now England . The Eoin Morgan-led side on its part is struggling with just a single win from four matches and that too has come against minnows Scotland . Batting first , England were in a bit of trouble at 161 for four before a 98-run partnership between Root , whose 108-ball stay was laced with 14 fours and 2 sixes , and James Taylor ( 25 ) put the innings back on course to a big total . The defiant stand , which is a record 5th wicket partnership for England in World Cup matches , came in just 11 overs as the Sri Lankan bowlers had little answer to the brisk run-scoring . In the end though it was Buttler 's cameo that really pushed the England total beyond the 300 plus mark . England started off well with Ali ( 15 ) and Ian Bell ( 49 ) sticking it out in the first 9 overs . Fielding was a big let down by the islanders , as Bell was dropped in the fourth over twice and later Root was also given a life when he was in single digits . Medium-pacer Mathews ( 1-43 ) drew first flood after picking up Ali and off-spinner Tilakaratne Dilshan ( 1-29 ) soon scalped Gary Ballance ( 6 ) with a caught and bowled effort . Bell hung around for a while only to see new-ball bowler Suranga Lakmal ( 1-71 ) deny the opener his fifty. Morgan ( 49 ) also stuck around for sometime but Thisara Perera ( 1-55 ) got his prized wicket an over before the start of the powerplays in the 35th over . After that it was a Root-Taylor show as the duo combined the right dose of caution and aggression to not only see England out of trouble but also took the attack to the opposition . Root , who struck his 4th ODI ton in 52 matches , was severe on Perera in the 45th over as he smashed a six and three fours after Taylor 's opening six to fetch 25 runs from six balls . Taylor got out to Lasith Malinga ( 1-63 ) after his 26-ball cameo and Root was trapped LBW off left-arm spinner Rangana Herath ( 1-35 ) but only after the duo had done sufficient damage . The final five overs gave England 52 runs and the last over 22 as Buttler smashed 6 fours and a six to finish off with a flourish . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
