World Cup 2015 : Timeline on Pakistan turmoil The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 24 , 2015 , 07.24PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE ( Australia ) : Factfile on Pakistan 's World Cup turmoil after chief selector Moin Khan was reportedly spotted in a casino in Christchurch hours before the team 's defeat by the West Indies : Feb 12 : Eight Pakistan players , including maverick former captain Shahid Afridi , fined for breaching a team curfew ahead of their crucial World Cup game against India. They are also warned that a repeat offence will see them kicked out of the tournament . " Eight of the Pakistan players , which also included former captain Shahid Afridi and opener Ahmed Shehzad , were fined 300 Australian dollars ( US $ 230 ) after they came late to their Sydney hotel on Sunday , " sources said . Feb 15 : Afridi plays down being fined for breaking the curfew , claiming he and his teammates went out to eat and not to dance the night away . " There are restaurants that have clubs inside them -- nothing happened , we went for food then came back , " Afridi told BBC Urdu . " When you have no news to show , they spread these kind of rumours to get attention from people. Nothing happened that night. We went for dinner -- we are in Australia , not in [ Pakistani cities ] Thatta or Larkana. " Feb 15 : Pakistan lose World Cup opener to arch-rivals India by 76 runs at the Adelaide Oval. The defending champions make 300 for seven with Virat Kohli ( 107 ) and Shikhar Dhawan ( 73 ) sharing a second-wicket stand of 129 before Suresh Raina hits 74. In reply , Pakistan are bowled out for 224 with skipper Misbah-ul-Haq making 76 . It was India 's sixth win in six World Cup games against Pakistan . Feb 18 : Pakistan 's campaign rocked by fresh allegations of unrest when reports claim that fielding coach Grant Luden was involved in a heated row with senior players . Initial reports in the Pakistan media claim Luden resigned after an argument with Afridi , Shehzad and Umar Akmal . " Luden had a serious argument with some senior players and out of frustration resigned , " a source in the Pakistan camp said . But the Pakistan Cricket Board ( PCB ) deny Luden resigned after the India match although they admit he had offered to quit before the World Cup started . Feb 21 : Pakistan lose to the West Indies by 150 runs in Christchurch. Chasing 311 to win , Pakistan never recover from slumping to one for four , the worst start in one-day international history , and are all out for 160 in the 39th over with Umar Akmal top-scoring on 59 . Feb 21 : Pakistani fans in the south-eastern city of Multan hold a mock funeral after the record-shattering defeat at the hands of the West Indies . Residents organize a symbolic funeral procession , replete with a coffin with several cricket bats placed over it . " This time we were really hoping for Pakistan to win , " Shama Bibi , one of those taking part , tells. " We do n't want to watch this anymore. " Feb 24 : Pakistani cricket chiefs launch investigation into reports that chief selector Moin Khan visited a casino shortly before the team 's calamitous defeat by the West Indies . " We have launched an investigation over the reports that Moin Khan visited a casino , action will be taken if the reports prove true , " Shehryar Khan , the chairman of the PCB , told reporters . " As per initial reports , Moin Khan went there to have a meal two days before the match against West Indies and a Pakistani couple photographed him and made a video. " Feb 24 : Shehryar Khan tells reporters Moin Khan has been recalled to account for himself in person . " Moin told me that he had gone to casino for a meal with his wife and his friend and friend 's wife. I have asked him to return and explain his position to the enquiry committee , " chairman Khan said . " Pakistan team manager Naveed Cheema will chair the tour selection committee ( from now onwards ) . " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
