World Cup 2015 : Ton-up Mahmudullah steers Bangladesh to 288/7 The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 13 , 2015 , 10.43AM IST Mahmudullah became only the second Bangladeshi batsman to score back-to-back ODI hundreds. ( Reuters Photo ) Page 1 of 4 HAMILTON : Mohammad Mahmudullah hit a second successive century to lead Bangladesh to a respectable 288/7 against New Zealand in the World Cup Pool A match in Hamilton on Friday . Scorecard The 29-year-old right-hander , who hit a match-winning 103 against England in Adelaide on Monday , scored a 123-ball undefeated 128 to lift Bangladesh from a struggling 27/2 after New Zealand won the toss and sent Bangladesh into bat on a flat Seddon Park pitch . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Mahmudullah , dropped on one by Corey Anderson off Tim Southee , anchored the innings and added an invaluable 90 for the third wicket with Soumya Sarkar ( 51 ) and another 78 for the sixth with Sabbir Rahman who made a fiery 23-ball 40 . Mahmudullah steered paceman Mitchell McClenaghan towards third man for a couple to complete his hundred off 111 balls before blowing a kiss to the applauding Bangladeshi fans . He became only the second Bangladeshi batsman to score back-to-back hundreds in all one-day internationals after Shahriar Nafees who achieved the feat against Zimbabwe at home in 2006 . In all Mahmudullah hit 12 fours and three sixes as New Zealand 's bowlers were tested for the first time in the tournament with Southee going wicketless . " They got through that initial period when it swung. Once they got through it they were able to pile on the runs , especially with the short boundaries , " said Southee . " It shows that once you get in , the runs will come. We have the guys to bat out these kind of conditions. It is a tough ground to defend on , so if you are not used to it , it will be a challenge. We just hope our guys can get off to fast start. " Rahman raised the tempo by hitting two sixes and five fours to help Bangladesh add 104 runs in the last ten overs . Left-arm paceman Trent Boult had jolted Bangladesh by dismissing Imrul Kayes ( two ) and Tamim Iqbal ( 13 ) in his first spell to finish with 2/56 . Anderson removed senior Bangladeshi batsmen Shakib A Hasan for 23 and Mushfiqur Rahim for 15 to finish with 2/43 . Bangladesh were without their regular skipper Mashrafe Mortza after he was ruled out due to a sore throat and a calf injury while New Zealand had to leave out unfit Adam Milne and brought in McClenaghan for their first change in the tournament . Both New Zealand and Bangladesh have already qualified for the quarterfinals , with the co-hosts winning all their five games to top the pool . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
