What Really Fired Virat Kohli in Australia ? What Really Fired Virat Kohli in Australia ? Virat Kohli backed his war of words against the Australians with a ton of runs in the four-Test series. Being the prime 'target ' of the hosts made him even more determined to score big . Last updated on Monday , 12 January , 2015 18 : 39 IST Total Shares Virat Kohli in action during the Sydney Test . © AP Virat Kohli emerged as the second-highest run-getter in the four Tests against Australia. He also emerged as the No. 1 enemy Down Under for his aggressive brand of cricket. After a month-long tour , it is clear that Kohli not only has a huge hunger for runs but is a firebrand leader as well. ( Also read : Want to win like you , Kohli tells Ganguly ) Blasting the 'myth ' that Indian batsmen struggle overseas , Kohli plundered 692 from the four Tests -- an average of 86.50. With the bat , he hit four centuries and a fifty. With his words , he 'struck ' Mitchell Johnson and his teammates -- making for a thrilling contest on and off the field . " They ( Australians ) have booed me but I know they have liked the way we have played our cricket , " Kohli said at the end of the final Test in Sydney . " To have the whole Australian crowd and 11 players who want to irritate me and get me out has been challenging but it has been enjoyable. " ( Also read : Virat Kohli hails Team India ) Kohli indeed looked as if he was enjoying his time in the middle , each time he stepped out to bat or field. He was called a 'spoilt-brat ' and was voted as a sports jerk by the media. The cruel words only brought the best out of this 26-year-old . " The Australians hate me and I like that. It helps me play better , " Kohli had said after his verbal duels with Johnson in the third Test. He had scored 169 in the first innings of the Boxing Day Test at MCG. ( Read more here ) While performing on the field may be regarded by traditionalists as the best reply against sledging , being docile is unknown to Kohli. Why settle for just runs when runs and aggression can both be combined ? " I hate losing , have always been this way. When I walk out , I want the opposition to respect my team , " Kohli had told former India cricketer Sourav Ganguly in a post-Sydney Test chat. ( Ca n't compare Kohli and Dhoni , says Ganguly ) For all the shambolic overseas Test records , many believe Indian cricket stands on the cusp of a character change. Talent and triumphs remain primary but Kohli 's has shown how adversities can transform into advantages as long as there is no option of backing down. ( Also read : Ian Chappell unimpressed with Kohli 's impatience ) Story first published on : Monday , 12 January 2015 16 : 59 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
