World Cup 2015 : UAE thank South African quicks for showing no mercy The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 15 , 2015 , 01.59PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 NAPIER : World Cup amateurs United Arab Emirates prepared to head home to their day jobs Sunday with words of thanks to Dale Steyn and Morne Morkel and one regret over a dropped catch against Ireland . The UAE 's World cup comeback , 19 years after their one and only previous appearance , ended with a sixth straight loss when the West Indies pulled off a six-wicket win at McLean Park in Napier . " It was a satisfactory performance from us , but we know we could have done better , " captain Mohammad Tauqir said . " Overall the whole tournament has been very special for the whole team. " Morkel and Steyn were singled out for a ferocious spell of intimidatory bowling which Tauqir took as recognition that his team of part-timers deserved to be part of cricket 's ODI showpiece . " I 'm very thankful to them for bowling to us the way they did , " said Tauqir , who scored three before he was bowled by Steyn . " By facing them it gave us a lot of confidence. We almost played 48 overs in that match and it was the most hostile bowling we faced in this tournament. " UAE 's closest game was against Ireland who won with two wickets in hand and just four balls to spare . But that game turned when Ireland 's Kevin O'Brien was dropped on 24 on his way to notching a half century . Tauqir was in no doubt that " if that catch was taken we would definitely have won that game. " Meanwhile , Tauqir , a 43-year-old banker , and his fellow 43-year-old deputy Khurram Khan , an airline purser , prepared to put aside full-time cricket for a while but harboured thoughts of still being around in four years for the next World Cup . " We have done a lot of hard work during the last eight or 10 months in preparation for this tournament and I feel pretty fit , " Tauqir said . " I would like to definitely continue playing as long as I am enjoying the game and the same with Khurram. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
