World Cup 2015 : Unfair to compare me with Virat Kohli , says Umar Akmal The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 12 , 2015 , 07.54PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 KARACHI : Pakistan batsman Umar Akmal has said that it was unfair to compare him with India 's Virat Kohli as both batted at different positions . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " It is always my effort to deliver 100 per cent for the team and Pakistan but I know people compare me to Virat Kohli which is not right because he bats higher up the order , " Akmal told Pakistani journalists in Adelaide on Thursday . " I should not be compared to Kohli because if he came into bat at six or seven and performed than I would understand and accept the comparisons. If I get a chance to bat higher up I believe I can perform better than what I do and get big innings , " he said . He pointed out that one must keep in mind that he mostly comes to bat at number five , six or seven . Asked if he had discussed his desire to bat at number three or four with the team management , Akmal shrugged off the question simply saying that he could talk to them if they watched domestic cricket back home . " They have not watched me bat at number three in domestic first class cricket , that is where I bat most of the time. I can only say they will soon trust me and allow me to bat higher up the order where I feel more comfortable , " he said . But Akmal made it clear that whatever position he was sent into bat , he tried his best and tried to get big scores. He said he was not complaining because he was ready to deliver 100 per cent at any position . " Even now , I am working hard with my coaches to get this knack of converting good starts into big scores. I know I can do that but sometimes the situations I come into bat I do n't have time to play long innings , " said Akmal . Asked how difficult it was for him to do wicketkeeping and also bat in limited overs cricket , Akmal said it was difficult to perform both roles satisfactorily . " I never kept in first class cricket. I used to bowl a bit but I made my debut as a batsman. So at times it is difficult to deal with both roles but I do it because of team requirement. " He said he was disappointed himself that he had not won a single man-of-the-match award in the World Cup so far . " I am happy for Ahmed Shehzad and Sarfraz Ahmed , they won these awards but I am also looking to deliver man of the match material performances in the remaining matches of World Cup. Because I want people to remember me for my performances in such a big tournament , " he said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
