World Cup 2015 : Upbeat West Indies take on South Africa The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 26 , 2015 , 01.07PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Fresh from a Chris Gayle power show that took them to their second win in the cricket World Cup , a buoyant West Indies will now take on South Africa , who are still licking their wounds after the 130-run hammering against India , in a Pool B match , on Friday . Once again all eyes will be on Gayle , who smashed the first double century of the 50-over showpiece event against Zimbabwe in their previous game , and it will be interesting to see how the destructive opener tackles one the most potent bowling attacks , led by Dale Steyn . After being shocked by Ireland in their opening game , West Indies turned on the heat against Pakistan to humble the Misbah ul Haq-led side by 150 runs and then romped past Zimbabwe to get placed behind leaders India in the pool table . The destructive Gayle came out of his slumber in Canberra , hitting a 147-ball 215 to sound the warning bells for every side in the competition . Sharing a record 372-run second wicket partnership with Marlon Samuels ( 133 ) , Gayle , who became the only non-Indian batsman after Sachin Tendulkar , Virender Sehwag and Rohit Sharma ( 2 ) to hit a double ton in ODIs , set a new benchmark of run-scoring in this edition of the World Cup . The West Indies pace attack comprising Jerome Taylor , skipper Jason Holder and Andre Russell has also showed intent after a lacklustre showing against the William Porterfield-led side , which cantered to their 305-run target in 45.5 overs . South Africa , however , still hold the edge against a side they completely outplayed when they met last month for a five-match ODI series. The Proteas won 4-1 to batter their opponents in all departments . West Indies Coach Stuart Williams said the side had learnt a lot from the recent South Africa series and believes the next meeting between the two sides can be different . " The series against South Africa was more about learning about our game and where we need to go , " Williams said . " We were playing the number one team in the world. Now it 's not a series , it 's just a one-off game in the World Cup so it 's a different mind-set , and we 're prepared for Friday . " The guys have been [ supporting each other ] , they have been working hard , they have been responding to my coaching and we 've been doing fine up to this day. " Meanwhile in their World Cup campaign so far , South Africa have not been up to the mark after they were tested against Zimbabwe in their opening game and were then embarrassed by India in their second outing . The AB de Villers-led side , which had maintained an unbeaten record against India in the three World Cup outings so far , not only allowed the Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's side to post 307 for seven in its stipulated overs but were also shot out for 177 runs . If the bowling , led by Steyn , was made to look ordinary by Shikhar Dhawan , who smacked a delightful 137 , then the batting could not stand the test against an Indian attack that looked potent enough . Much to their fans surprise , the Proteas were also found lacking on the fielding front after missing two catches and India on their part induced two run outs . But 'tomorrow is another day ' and both the teams will be looking to get the better of each other in a pool which is turning out to be extremely competitive . Teams : West Indies : Jason Holder ( captain ) , Chris Gayle , Dwayne Smith , Marlon Samuels , Darren Bravo , Jonathan Carter , Darren Sammy , Andre Russell , Denesh Ramdin , Sheldon Cottrell , Kemar Roach , Nikita Miller , Sulieman Benn , Lendl Simmons , Jerome Taylor . South Africa : AB de Villiers ( capt ) , Hashim Amla , Quinton de Kock ( wk ) , Faf du Plessis , David Miller , JP Duminy , Farhan Behardien , Morne Morkel , Dale Steyn , Vernon Philander , Imran Tahir , Kyle Abbott , Rillee Russouw , Aaron Phangiso , Wayne Parnell . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
