World Cup 2015 : Vettori promises to stay 'casual ' ahead of Australia clash The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 26 , 2015 , 12.29PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Veteran spinner Daniel Vettori said Thursday that New Zealand would stick with their tried and trusted " casual " pre-match routine rather than let the enormity of Saturday 's World Cup clash against Australia overwhelm them . Saturday 's match between the tournament co-hosts at Auckland 's Eden Park promises to be a high-class contest , with two title contenders battling for pole position in Pool A , a finish which would mean they faced the relatively weaker fourth and final qualifier from Pool B in the last eight . But Vettori , a veteran of 289 one-day internationals , with 57 against Australia , was trying to keep a lid on all the hype surrounding the match . " The casual build-up has worked pretty well for us. I do n't think there 'll be much difference with the way we 'll go about things , " Vettori told reporters during a New Zealand training session on Thursday . " We will look forward to Saturday rather than fear it , " added the left-arm spinner , who stressed he had featured in " bigger " games than the latest trans-Tasman clash, " World Cup semi-finals are the biggest games I 've played in , " said Vettori , who featured in New Zealand 's defeats by Sri Lanka in the last four of both the 2007 and 2011 editions . " Which is not to say there 's a keen sense of anticipation of what lies ahead , " added Vettori , also a a member of the New Zealand side that lost to Australia in the 2009 Champions Trophy final in Centurion , South Africa . " That wo n't change the New Zealand philosophy going into the game , " said Vettori , with he Black Caps the form team of this World Cup so far after three wins in as many pool matches . New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum has won plaudits for his aggressive leadership style and Vettori , himself a former skipper , compared his leadership style to that of Stephen Fleming , one of New Zealand 's most-respected captains . " They are very good friends so they bring a lot of similar traits , " Vettori explained . " Stephen was amazing in the background in the way he could organise and motivate a team. Brendon does that similar role but probably on the field . " That 's why guys gravitate to him , for the example he sets , particularly with the way he fields. He sets an example you have to follow . " Stephen did that , but in a more understated manner. " Asked if he expected to be on the receiving end of any verbal abuse from Australia , Vettori replied : " In 18 years I ca n't remember being sledged by an Australian team. I think the way it 's portrayed is not quite right. I think the guys will look forward to it. " Vettori , who took two wickets in each of New Zealand 's last two games against Australia at Eden Park , was not bothered either by the reconfigured ground 's short straight boundaries , which will be an open invitation to Australia batsmen looking to hit his left-arm spin . " I have n't played on these dimensions so it will be new experience for me but I have talked to ( fellow New Zealand spinner ) Nathan ( McCullum ) , who has done a good job here . " Spinners have done well here , the short boundaries are daunting but we can still perform. " Vettori said New Zealand 's eight-wicket win over England in Wellington last time out , where paceman Tim Southee took a national record seven for 33 , had done wonders for the team 's confidence . " The game at Wellington was a lot of fun and I think that is the nature we are trying to take into this game , we do n't get to play that often before a packed 45,000 crowd cheering for you . " It will be a lot of fun and Australia will have fun too , " he added . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
