World Cup 2015 : Virat Kohli at par with Sachin Tendulkar of '90s , says Aaqib Javed The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 3 , 2015 , 08.53AM IST Aaqib feels that the form Kohli is in can give India the World Cup. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NAPIER : Aaqib Javed has fought many duels with Sachin Tendulkar during his playing days. While Tendulkar was the third of his leg-before dismissals in that famous Sharjah hat-trick in the early 1990s , the Little Master tore into the paceman to set up India 's famous run chase in Bangladesh in the Independence Cup final in 1997 . Full Coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Aaqib , of course , has a lot of respect for Tendulkar but he feels Virat Kohli is no less than Tendulkar of the early 1990s. " This boy Virat is something else , he reminds me so much of Tendulkar of the early 1990s , " Aaqib , here as the coach of United Arab Emirates , told TOI . READ ALSO : Virat Kohli is king off the field The former paceman feels Kohli would have been a threat to the great Pakistani attack of Imran Khan , Wasim Akram , Waqar Younus and Aaqib himself. " We started bowling at Tendulkar when he was a kid. There was this amazing fearlessness in him that I see in Kohli. This guy never ever takes a backward step , " Aaqib said . Kohli has won quite a few matches chasing big runs and that reminds Aaqib of the explosive starts that Tendulkar used to give. " Tendulkar used to set it up in ODIs , Kohli has the habit of finishing the game. It shows the boy 's maturity. And like Sachin he can play on all sides of the wicket. He is equally fluent on both front and back-foot. " Aaqib feels that the form Kohli is in can give India the World Cup. " He is batting really well. Even this ( Ajinkya ) Rahane guy... he is shaping up so well. These two are the two gems of Indian batting. " However , the paceman feels Kohli needs to prove himself in England and play for another 10 years to finish on par with Tendulkar. " England did n't go too well for Kohli. He has to make an impression there. And longevity was another issue that made Tendulkar what he is. Kohli should ensure that he leads the Indian batting for 10 more years. " Would Kohli have been more difficult to dismiss in that hat-trick ball in Sharjah 24 years back ? Aaqib smiled : " I am happy that I got Sachin. I would have felt the same if it was Kohli. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
