World Cup 2015 : Virat Kohli can not be compared with Sachin Tendulkar , says Barry Richards The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 24 , 2015 , 05.25PM IST Kohli has no batting peers in this Indian team , Richards said. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 PERTH : Legendary South African batsman Barry Richards feels Virat Kohli is a few notches above his contemporaries in the Indian team but still has some way to go before one can compare him with the iconic Sachin Tendulkar . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " Virat Kohli undoubtedly is the best batsman in this current Indian team by a distance. He is really talented and is someone , whom you will like to pay to watch his batting. Along with AB de Villiers , he is amongst the top batsmen in world cricket today , " Richards , one of the most respected voices in world cricket , said during an interaction . READ ALSO : I am happy , but not satisfied : Sachin Tendulkar Sir Donald Bradman was believed to have considered Richards as one of the finest right-handers at par with Jack Hobbs and Len Hutton . When asked how did he rate Ajinkya Rahane and Shikhar Dhawan compared to Kohli , Richards answer resembled the same non-challance . " No way ( he shrugged ) . They are not even close to Kohli. He is in a league of his own. You like the way he builds an innings. The hallmark of a good batsman is to control the pace of his innings and Kohli does it with ease. He will definitely get better , " said 69-year-old Richards , who scored more than 500 runs in four Test matches against Australia in the only Test series he played before South Africa went into isolation for 21 years . However , the batting artist of yesteryears feels that Kohli still needs a bit more finesse in his execution before he can be compared with Tendulkar . " Tendulkar 's range of strokes was extra-ordinary , which Kohli still has some way to go , " Richards commented before doing a bit of shadow to explain the difference . Richards feels that Kohli still needs a bit more finesse in his execution before he can be compared with Tendulkar. ( Getty Images ) " When Tendulkar batted , you could sense that his peripheral vision works. He could play in that entire arc between gully and square-leg , such was his range. If needed , he could meet the ball early with a front foot stride even on fastest of pitches. In case of Kohli , I find him as someone , who plays very close to his body. He lets the ball come into him , " observed Richards , who had 80 hundreds in 339 first-class matches . As someone , who had played the best fast bowlers in county cricket during his time as well as in the World Series Cricket ( WSC ) run by Kerry Packer in 1977-78 , Richards admits there has been a general decline in quality of fast bowling . " Among the current crop of fast bowlers , obviously Dale ( Steyn ) is a cut above the rest. He has all the qualities of a great fast bowler and he has been consistent over a period of time. In general , the quality has taken a hit although there are some good bowlers still . " But , yes , you had the great West Indies quicks , there was Dennis Lillee , Imran Khan during that era. And do n't forget , there was our very own South African pacer Garth Le Roux. Boy he was quick during that Packer Series , " Richards was in a mood to recollect as he sipped his coffee . But he was sympathetic towards the bowlers considering that the game is being heavily loaded in favour of batsmen . " The field restrictions are loaded in favour of batsman with the new rules of five fielder inside the circle. I reckon that this World Cup will have a lot of big scores , " added Richards , who is on a very short radio stint of three matches . " Now , I have crossed that age where I can do a whole tournament spanning over seven weeks , " Richards bid adieu with a smile as he retired into broadcasting room . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
