World Cup 2015 : Virat Kohli faces media backlash following reporter spat The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Mar 4 , 2015 , 02.26PM IST Virat Kohli , currently India 's best batsman across all formats , later realised it was a case of mistaken identity and apologised to the target of his abuse through another journalist. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Virat Kohli has delighted Indian fans with his exploits in the middle but reports of an ugly spat with a journalist at the World Cup will only enhance his reputation within the press corps of being volatile and tetchy . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 As the team 's media manager moved quickly to limit the damage of an embarrassing encounter involving India 's test skipper , a contradictory view of events in Perth was emerging from the nation 's cricket journalists . The incident took place at the Murdoch Oval , where India were training ahead of Friday 's Pool B match against the West Indies at the WACA . After finishing his net session , the 26-year-old batsman started swearing at an Indian national daily reporter over a story about the cricketer 's private life , according to reports from journalists covering the World Cup . Kohli , currently India 's best batsman across all formats , later realised it was a case of mistaken identity and apologised to the target of his abuse through another journalist . " There was a misunderstanding and no abusive language was used , Virat has spoken to the concerned gentlemen immediately and that ends the matter , " the team 's media manager RN Baba said in a statement on Wednesday . In a column published in the Hindustan Times , the journalist subjected to Kohli 's tirade said he was still in " shock " . " Go and tell him that he is an international player and he should learn how to behave , " Jasvinder Sidhu told the intermediary to inform Kohli after receiving the apology . " How can he abuse and intimidate someone ? " I would like to add that Kohli did not apologise to me directly. " Kohli has often polarised opinion over his regular run-ins with opposition players and was fined half of his match fee in 2012 for responding to barracking from the crowd by gesturing at them with his middle finger during a Sydney Test . There were also multiple reports of him having a dressing-room spat with team mate Shikhar Dhawan during the recent test series in Australia after he had to bat at short notice following an injury to the opener . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
