World Cup 2015 : Waqar storms out of presser , says 'no time for stupid posers' The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 7 , 2015 , 06.32PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Barely an hour after their brilliant win over formidable South Africa in the ICC World Cup 2015 here , Pakistan were embroiled in a controversy with coach Waqar Younis storming out of the mandatory press conference on being asked about an alleged tiff with a player . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Waqar abruptly ended the presser when asked why he did not play wicketkeeper Sarfraz Ahmed , whose run-a-ball 49 as opening batsman and six dismissals were instrumental in Pakistan 's 29-run ( D/L ) win over the Proteas on Saturday , in earlier matches , saying he did not have time for " stupid questions " . There had been speculations in the media over why Nasir Jamshed was persisted despite his poor run of form. Jamshed has scores of nought , one and four in Pakistan 's last three matches before today . Waqar lost his cool when a journalist asked if there was politics involved in not playing Sarfraz in earlier games and that the coach should take the blame for it . " There are 15 boys and it 's the best XI who have been playing. The best XI played today also. There is no politics involved. You are the one giving it a political twist , " said Waqar while replying to a question asked in Urdu at the fag end of the presser after the Q&A in English . " Why should I take the blame ? After all , Nasir Jamshed is also part of the team , " he said . An irritated-looking Waqar was then asked for his reaction of an alleged bust-up inside the dressing room between him and Sarfraz , and at that point Waqar chose to abruptly end the presser and stormed out of the room . " It 's time to end the press conference. I do n't have time to answer your stupid questions , " Waqar said before making an exit . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
