World Cup 2015 : Was n't an easy pitch to start , says Moeen The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 24 , 2015 , 10.10AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : The headlines in the local newspapers screamed " Scotland can produce the knock-out punch " . Ireland 's stunning win over the West Indies and Afghanistan 's plucky show against Sri Lanka would have infused the Scots with a healthy dose of self-belief . Also England , reeling after two most demoralizing defeats , needed a cool head to turn it around and there was no one better than Moeen Ali to do the job on an overcast Monday morning . Ali slammed a 107-ball 128 and then bagged 2-47 with his innocuous off-spin to help England find their feet after a poor start to the tournament. Scotland captain Preston Mommsen acknowledged that it was the English opening pair that took the game away from them. Moeen , however , said that it was n't easy first up . " It was not an easy pitch to start and it took a bit of time to play some shots. It was nice to get into a bit of form before the next match and hopefully I can continue it , " Moeen said after the game. Ali , of Pakistan origin , has developed into a vital cog in the English wheel. From being a floater for a while , he is slowly settling down into the role of an opener in ODIs , a slot that has been left vacant after the departure of Alastair Cook . " I rate him really highly. He 's an allrounder and we have n't had allrounders for a very long time , " England skipper Eoin Morgan said . Though Moeen has the ability to anchor the innings in the longer version , he can be quite attacking in ODIs. " He can open the batting and in the fashion that he plays , it 's a big advantage for us , " Morgan added . Moeen 's spin is probably the most under-rated aspect of his game , yet he keeps taking wickets. The Indian team found that out during the summer and the off-spinner is slowly improving . Moeen , though , was self-critical of his bowling despite getting couple of wickets. " I do n't think I bowled that well today , I have n't bowled for a couple of weeks in matches now , " Moeen said. But his captain gave the impression that he has full confidence in his spin bowling allrounder , which most teams barring the subcontinental sides do n't have. " He gets a lot of purchase out of the pitch with the ball. I think we 're very privileged to have him and we certainly do n't undervalue him , " Morgan said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
