World Cup 2015 : Watson launches children 's book to promote reading The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 25 , 2015 , 11.32AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : As part of ICC Cricket World Cup 's commitment to supporting community causes , Australian all-rounder Shane Watson has launched a children 's book to promote reading . Watson has been named the star in a children 's book that has been published by Room to Read , a global non-profit organisation that promotes literacy and gender equality in education across Asian and African countries , together with the ICC . The book will be published in Bangla , with an initial print-run of 2,500 copies and distributed to schools across Bangladesh and will be available for reprint in future years for additional schools . This children 's title , entitled Dream Big , is about a young boy , Ratul , who dreams about meeting his hero Shane after seeing him on television. The book inspires children to Dream Big and recognises that great things are possible with perseverance . " Reading is an important tool in a child 's overall development , I encourage children to read more and develop an all-round personality. My message to children worldwide is to Dream Big and never stop chasing your dream. Big dreams can lead to bigger things in life and this is what this book strives to do , " Watson commented at the book 's launch in the Sydney Cricket Ground . ICC and Room to Read have been working together since the 2011 World Cup and have focused on motivating children across Asia and Africa to pursue their right to a quality education , the ICC said in a statement . The partnership has involved numerous activities including Room to Read Ambassadors Shane Watson , Angelo Matthews and Virat Kohli meeting beneficiaries from Room to Read programmes and promoting the importance of reading and education . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
