World Cup 2015 : Watson wary of danger from 'incredible ' Pakistan The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 17 , 2015 , 10.35AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Australian all-rounder Shane Watson expects Pakistan to come out firing in Friday 's World Cup quarterfinal , saying a knock-out situation usually brought out the best in them . " They can play some incredible cricket , as they have in times I 've played against them , but they also can self-destruct quite quickly as well , " Watson told reporters at the Adelaide Oval on Tuesday . " That 's the reason why Pakistan are so dangerous especially in a knock-out game like this quarterfinal . " They have certainly got some match-winners. Once this Pakistan team gets on a roll , they are able to use that momentum to be able to shut down teams very quickly. " Watson , at 33 one of the senior-most Australian players , hoped his team can see off Pakistan in front of their home supporters and move into the semifinal against either defending champions India or Bangladesh in Sydney on March 26 . " We know this is a danger game for us because they ( Pakistan ) can come on and just turn it on like they have throughout the times I 've played them in the past . " We know we have to be at our absolute best and not give them a chance to be able to get that momentum. We know if they 're able to get that they can run away with it very quickly. " The unpredictable Pakistanis bounced back after losing the first two games against India and the West Indies in the league to win the next four . Pakistan , champions in 1992 when the World Cup was last played Down Under , beat Australia by four wickets in Colombo during the last edition in 2011 , a match Watson did not want to be reminded of . " I try to forget that one because we lost it , " he said. " We knew that was a really important game because if we lost against them we were going to have to play India in the quarterfinal , which we knew was going to be a big challenge on their home turf . " And it worked out that way. I 've got some good memories but also some bad memories that I try to forget as quick as I can. That was one. " The Australian selectors were slammed for dropping Watson , a veteran of 184 one-day internationals , midway through this tournament before reinstating him for the next game . Watson , who had made 0 and 23 in the first two games , hit back with 67 on his return against Sri Lanka in Sydney and is now resigned to batting at five or six instead of his normal number three spot . " If I am playing , it will be in the middle-order I think , " he said. " It seems my role has changed the last couple of games which is absolutely fine. I totally understand where I sit within the team. " Watson admitted he had feared being left out for the rest of the tournament after being dropped for the match against Afghanistan in Perth , but has been amazed by the sudden turnaround . " I was not expecting to play in the tournament after being dropped for the Afghanistan game , " he said. " So it 's amazing how things can turn around even quicker than I thought they would . " I am just lucky the opportunity came around against Sri Lanka and everything I had been working on came together very much in that innings. " Watson has scored 5,592 runs and claimed 166 wickets with his right-arm seam bowling in 184 one-day appearances since 2002 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
