Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 All but written off at the World Cup , one match was all it took to change the momentum of their fortunes and propel them to their one and only 50-over title , achieved in 1992 . The 43-year-old had not quite seen that on Wednesday against UAE but felt his team were slowly starting to find some confidence with their 129-run victory over the associate nation . " I 'll take it at the moment , " Waqar said after the Pool B victory , which came on the heels of a 20-run win over Zimbabwe after heavy defeats by India and West Indies . " To win makes you feel comfortable and confident. I think we need to win against bigger opponents to tell the world that we are around . " Two victories , fair enough , the run rate is better . " We are sneaking in and looking to play better cricket but we need to beat a better opponent. " Waqar , who missed the 1992 tournament through injury , could draw some parallels with his current team 's performances and that of Imran Khan 's World Cup winners . In 1992 , they were languishing on three points after their first five games in the round robin tournament before they beat Australia by 48 runs . They then won their next two pool games , both of which they had to win or pack up early for home , to qualify for the semi-finals in fourth place . Martin Crowe 's New Zealand team at Eden Park were then dispatched in the semi-final and then they beat England to clinch the title . Pakistan next face South Africa on Saturday in Auckland before they finish their matches in Pool B with a clash against Ireland in Adelaide . That final match could determine who finishes fourth in the pool , though Waqar was keen for his team to have put them into a better position before then . " I think the crucial game will be South Africa , not just to qualify but for a morale booster , " he added . " We need to beat a top team to get our confidence back . " We have n't played the best cricket but... we have the capabilities there . " We do have the players there who can turn it around. This tournament is going to get tougher and tougher and we have to be ready for it. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
