World Cup 2015 : West Indies hope to revel on pacy WACA against India The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Mar 3 , 2015 , 08.30AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 PERTH : The West Indies team may not have the fearsome fast bowlers of decades gone by , especially when Clive Lloyd was the captain , the West Indies great who is now the chief selector , feels that the fast and bouncy WACA pitch gives his side a good chance when they face India in the World Cup Group B match on Friday . " The wicket has good bounce and we have the bowlers who can exploit it. Having said that , India have been playing very well while our performance has been sporadic. But it will depend on how well we play on that day. But I am happy that we have come to Perth to challenge a top team like India. It is going to be a good game , " Lloyd said . Talking at the Murdoch University ground , where the West Indies team had an optional training session , Lloyd said that India had exceptionally talented players and was not surprised that the team was doing well. " Virat Kohli , Shikhar Dhawan and Rohit Sharma are exciting batsmen. Dhoni has been an excellent leader and we know what he can do with the bat. Their fast bowlers are also doing well and Ashwin has improved a lot. The Indian team looks a good prospect in this World Cup and I can see they are determined to defend the World Cup , " he said . Lloyd , who had led West Indies to the title in the first two World Cups in 1975 and 1979 , said that Chris Gayle going through a lean phase was not a worry for him. " It is always a matter of time before Chris ( Gayle ) strikes form , " he told the media " We 're quite delighted that he 's back in form and I hope he continues to play the big knocks. We 've come to expect great innings from Chris. He 's done it in T20s and now he 's done it in 50 overs. His body is not as strong as it used to be , as he is suffering from chronic back problem. But if you can have somebody who is not fully fit , making 200 runs in a 50-over game , we are happy that ( situation ) , " Lloyd said . However , he denied that the West Indies team is dependent solely on Gayle. " We have some good talent in the team and they also can be match-winners on their day. So , I would not sa that the team is dependent But one thing is certain -when he scores big , it always helps the team 's cause because he gets those runs at a fast clip and that gives an ad vantage to our team , " he said . Lloyd contin ues to be quizzed by the media over the decision to drop senior all rounders Dwayne Bravo and Kieron Pollard. His response on Monday : " It was not easy to leave out those two guys. It is a discussion that went on and on and in the end we thought that we have so many all-rounders. We were trying to see if we can introduce some new faces and as far as I am concerned I think we have a good all-round One-day side. " Lloyd said that he West Indies could still defy the experts and produce good results . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
