World Cup 2015 : West Indies on sliding scale of decline The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 17 , 2015 , 11.56AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : Darren Sammy needed treatment on his back , Andre Russell pulled up after bowling an embarrassing long-hop while fresh-faced captain Jason Holder speared a ball so wide that first slip was placed in immediate peril . In three crude snapshots , the decline of West Indies cricket was perfectly captured and another miserable low point -- defeat by Ireland at the World Cup on Monday -- racked up . Forty years ago , the West Indies won the first World Cup and then defended it four years later before finishing runners-up in 1983 . Since then , their one-day pickings have been mighty slim , a Champions Trophy victory in 2004 and a Twenty20 world title in 2012 . " We 're watching the death row of West Indies cricket , " tweeted Melbourne radio station , SEN 1116 following Monday 's four-wicket loss to Ireland in Nelson on New Zealand 's South Island . To others , however , the Caribbean game 's heart stopped beating a long time ago . Clive Lloyd , who skippered the West Indies to their 1975 and 1979 world titles and is now the head of selectors , believes the bish-bash but lucrative Twenty20 , the sport 's shortest format , has diluted the talent pool , narrowed concentration and diminished skills . " The players earn a good wage. They have the choice to play Test cricket or T20 , " said Lloyd . " We are small islands and if you get a whole host of money , you are a king. This T20 competition has messed our cricket up . " We have contracts , probably not as exorbitant as others , but they are getting good money. It does n't seem playing for our country is paramount where these players are concerned. " The likes of Chris Gayle , the West Indies ' occasionally devastating opener , has virtually become a batsman for hire , playing for T20 franchises in India , South Africa , Australia and even in Bangladesh . On Monday , Gayle was out for 36 -- he has now not passed 50 since playing Bangladesh in August and the last of his 21 centuries was against Sri Lanka in June 2013 . He did n't feature for South Africa 's Test or ODI tour in December and January and refused the offer of a central contract before going on to accuse the West Indies Cricket Board of victimisation over their axing of Dwayne Bravo and Kieron Pollard from the World Cup squad . Both men had been central to the team 's decision to abandon the tour of India last year over a pay dispute . Money -- or often the lack of it -- has been a key factor in the decline and fall of West Indies cricket in recent years . In 2009 , the majority of senior players went on strike over contracts leaving selectors to name Floyd Reifer , who last played a Test 10 years earlier , as captain. A 16-year-old Kraigg Brathwaite was also called up . Bangladesh , themselves often mediocre makeweights , swept the Test and ODI series as a result . Former fast bowler Ian Bishop cited financial concerns , as well as the declining importance of the sport in the region , as factors behind the slump . " It 's a reflection in the decay of values in general in the Caribbean , in all walks of life. People are running after the dollar , " said Bishop . Such has been the long-running saga of decline that Bishop was identifying the problems in 2011 -- all of which are still plaguing the game . " Cricket demands hard work and commitment. Now , a lot of younger men are happier playing basketball under the lights at night. Cricket is no longer a way of life in the Caribbean. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
