World Cup 2015 : We were punished , says England captain Morgan The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 1 , 2015 , 12.33PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 WELLINGTON : England captain Eoin Morgan admitted his side had been " punished " by a rampant Sri Lanka on Sunday in a nine-wicket loss that left them on the brink of World Cup elimination . Sri Lanka chased down a target of 310 with 16 balls to spare as Lahiru Thirimanne struck an undefeated 139 while Kumar Sangakkara was unbeaten on 117 , the pair putting on 212 for the second wicket . Joe Root had hit 121 off 108 balls as England made 309 for six in the Pool A match at Wellington 's Westpac Stadium . Sri Lanka are now on the verge of the quarter-finals after three wins in four games while England 's tally of two points means their last-eight hopes are hanging by a thread . " We were punished today by a very experienced side. We were way off the mark , " said Morgan , who has overseen defeats by Australia , New Zealand and now Sri Lanka with just one win , against non-Test Scotland , to show for England 's efforts at this tournament . " When we are bowling well , it 's a good attack but you can pick it apart when we 're not bowling well and we did n't bowl well. " Morgan 's premier seamers James Anderson and Stuart Broad went for none for 48 and none for 67 respectively . In four matches , Anderson and Broad have only taken two wickets each. " At 'half-time ' we went in thinking we had a more than par score , " said Morgan . " Joe Root was exceptional -- it sums up the year he 's had. I was happy at half time. " Sri Lanka skipper Angelo Mathews , whose team have beaten England , Afghanistan and Bangladesh while losing to New Zealand , praised his century-makers . " I thought 310 was a bit too much but it was a brilliant partnership by Sangakkara and Thirimanne. We knew we could chase 300 but they were two of the best knocks we 've ever seen , " said Mathews . " If the bowlers fail , the batters need to step up and get us a win and the top four have really been great in these last few days. Not many teams have chased 300 in this World Cup but it was a great performance. " For Sangakkara , it was his second successive century at the World Cup after the 37-year-old marked his 400th one-day international with 105 not out against Bangladesh . " The wicket was pretty good and everything I tried came off. But the openers had a great start and that was an exceptional innings by Thirimanne , " said Sangakkara . " It was a case of batting and batting long. Chasing 300 is always an imposing target but there are days like this when the batting side has to work hard. I 'm getting old , but I 'm still enjoying it. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
