World Cup 2015 : When Raina goes for his shots , I calm down , says Dhoni The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 15 , 2015 , 09.43AM IST Suresh Raina and Mahendra Singh Dhoni celebrate their victory in the World Cup Pool B match against Zimbabwe at Eden Park. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : When it 's Suresh Raina and MS Dhoni at the middle chasing down a big target , there 's almost a sense of inevitability. Some call it the left-right combo , others term it the CSK effect , but the truth of the matter is India are the biggest beneficiaries . Full coverage : ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Dhoni smiles when asked to explain the magic recipe for this combination. " It 's not about CSK , it 's about our style of batting. He bats at No. 5 , I do at 6. We have been doing it for a while now and know each other 's game. Sometimes when he is going for the shots , I calm down and vice versa , so it works well for us , " Dhoni said . Raina sometimes gets a little carried away , as was the case on Saturday as well. Then it 's invariably Dhoni who does the talking and gets the left-hander to control his aggression. " The only thing is that you have to keep speaking to him and tell him to return to the third gear from the fifth , because there are n't too many batsmen after us. He has taken to that role very well , it 's not easy to bat at 5 , 6 or 7 , " Dhoni said . Raina , too , complemented his captain for the role that he plays when the two look to build a partnership. " MS and I have played and finished a lot of matches together. He told me that I just ca n't smash every ball , but he did back my strengths on the field. " Dhoni 's finishing skills are legendary but the captain feels that with Raina around , it becomes easier. " You ca n't really miss out the fact that Raina eases the pressure on me - he has done it quite a few times , " he said. More than the century , Dhoni is happy that Raina got a good hit in the middle as the tournament goes into the business end. After a 74 in the first game against Pakistan , the left-hander had n't got too many big scores and it was important for him to find his touch . " When you are batting at No. 5 or 6 , more often than not , you get out to bat in the 38th or 39th over and all you do is to look for the big shots. There 's the possibility of getting out in the process , but now Raina will go into the knockouts a lot more confident , " Dhoni said . Raina 's bowling , too , has come in handy and there was a reference to the slot vacated by Yuvraj Singh. " I do n't think the Yuvraj comparison quite works. Yuvi bowled much less after the rule changes came into play. Raina on the other hand can be a very useful bowler on helpful wickets , especially to left-handers , " Dhoni said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
