World Cup 2015 : Will Afridi go boom boom at Hagley ? The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 19 , 2015 , 10.39AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 CHRISTCHURCH : Pakistan spinners ' coach Mushtaq Ahmed asked Shahid Afridi get a bit of batting practice on Wednesday. " Aaj to bas bowling karenge Mushibhai ( I will just bowl today , Mushibhai ) , " Afridi said . He was n't his usual sprightly self and one could sense the 36-year old allrounder was distracted . Afridi has played in four of Pakistan 's six defeats against India in the World Cup , and he might have believed that the string would be broken this time. But it was n't to be and the onus is again on him to deliver so that Pakistan can go forward in the World Cup . Afridi 's fast leg-spinners will be crucial to Pakistan 's chances against West Indies and the veteran allrounder kept working on that for about 45 minutes at the nets. And in the middle of all that , he kept enquiring about the conditions in Christchurch. " Did it help the spinners at all in the first game here ? I have heard that the wind blows hard across the ground , it wo n't be easy , " Afridi seemed lost in this thoughts even as he spoke to the group that surrounded him after a practice session at the Hagley Oval. Afridi is one of the few in this Pakistan lineup who has played at Lancaster Park , a venue that was destroyed following the earthquake here in 2011. " They showed us how the earthquake happened. Us stadium ka to kuch bacha hi nahin ( Nothing is left of that stadium ) . This ground looks much smaller , " Afridi said . While the spinner in Afridi may be worried about the smaller size of the ground , the hard-hitting batsman in him will surely fancy his chances to clear the fence easily. After the nets , a group of young kids at a welcome ceremony urged Afridi to go Boom Boom on Saturday. " Yes , yes , I will try , if you insist , " he laughed , giving away autographs . Amidst all this , the pin-up boy of Pakistan cricket looked a little worried about the schedule of Pakistan in the World Cup. " So much of travelling. We played the first game in Adelaide , now we are here in Christchurch.Then we are back to Brisbane and immediately three days later back in Napier... Quite hectic , I must say. " But Afridi knows it 's better not to think too about all this at this stage of the tournament. His family will be joining him in Brisbane and the all-rounder is still confident that the team will do better once they pick up a couple of wins. " It 's just the start , once we start winning , things will be on track , hopefully , " the swashbuckler kept his fingers crossed . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
