World Cup 2015 : Williamson , Boult delighted to be last men standing The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 28 , 2015 , 04.57PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : New Zealand 's last pair of Kane Williamson and Trent Boult said their edge-of-the-seat , one-wicket World Cup triumph over Australia on Saturday will live in the memory for a long time . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Chasing a modest 152-run target , New Zealand were facing an improbable defeat at 146-9 with number 11 batsman Boult walking in to face the last two deliveries from a rampaging Mitchell Starc who had nearly turned the tables with a career best 6-28 . But Boult survived both balls leaving it to Williamson to hit Pat Cummins for a straight six to bring up the win as a packed 40,000 Eden Park crowd gave them a standing ovation . The win ensured New Zealand 's spot in the quarter-finals with four wins in as many Pool A games . " I was looking to hit a boundary , ideally a six after the new batsman came in. It was tough so my plan was to hit it and I did , " said Williamson , who made 45 not out as New Zealand sealed victory after 23.1 overs . Boult , who had earlier taken a career best 5-27 which sent Australia crashing to 151 , said he was desperate not to let his side down . " I was pretty pumped up but Kane quickly slowed it down for me , simplified it for me that if I play the two balls then we could move forward. " New Zealand were cruising along with Williamson and Corey Anderson ( 26 ) involved in a 52-run stand for the fifth wicket before Starc pushed them back as five wickets fell for just 15 runs . " I was just trying to keep that total out of my mind , I suppose , and just bat long enough to have a chance of getting across the line , " said Williamson . " I think Australia bowled outstandingly and made it difficult for us. Starc was superb and swung the ball throughout but it was nice to cross the line , it does n't matter how you do it. We had a scare but it 's nice to win. " Williamson said he did n't realise the damage Starc would cause when he took a single in the 23rd over and the Australian dismissed Adam Milne and Tim Southee . " Every run looked quite significant and with three wickets left I thought it was okay to get a single but obviously it became tough , " he said . " But Trent showed a cool nerve and kept out those two balls and gave me an opportunity , so it was a team effort. " Boult said he just tried to bowl in the right areas when he ripped through the Australians . " I am just trying to do what I have been doing for the last five or six months. I swung the ball and had some luck with some drag-ons , but definitely I will remember it as it set up a reasonably low total and we chased that down. " Williamson said the win over Australia means a lot to New Zealand. " Australia are the number one in the world. Whenever you play them it 's tough , they do n't give you easy runs and wickets so it 's tough to play them and winning against them is good. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
