World Cup 2015 : Will Proteas miss 'superman ' Kallis ? The author has posted comments on this article Dhananjay Roy , TNN | Feb 19 , 2015 , 10.00AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Few players the world over possess powers to win games single-handedly. Jacques Kallis belonged to this illustrious list for almost 18 years. The South African great retired last year having notched up monumental individual records , but as luck would have it he was never part of a World Cup-winning side . That takes little away from the fact that Kallis tormented India on two out of the three occasions in which the current defending champions have lost to South Africa at the World Cup. During their meeting in Nagpur in 2011 , Kallis took 1-43 from eight overs and then top-scored with 69 as South Africa chased down India 's handsome total of 296 with three wickets to spare. At Hove in the 1999 World Cup , Kallis scored 96 batting at No. 4 and then bowled an economical 10-over spell , conceding only 43 runs . Given these impressive stats , MS Dhoni & Co will heave a mighty sigh of relief when India clash with South Africa on Sunday. " This is a very strong South African side. The only issue I see here is the all-rounder 's spot. That 's where Kallis made immense impact , " former SA skipper Kepler Wessels told TOI on Wednesday , adding : " Kallis was a great servant for South Africa but they have moved on well without him. " Former India medium-pacer Venkatesh Prasad too acknowledged that Kallis ' performance was a major factor that tilted scales in SA 's favour. However , he claimed that the current lot - including AB de Villiers , David Miller and Hashim Amla - were more than capable enough to make up for Kallis ' absence . " Kallis played crucial roles for South Africa throughout his career but their current team led by de Villiers is extremely strong. The likes of Miller , Amla , de Kock and Steyn will ensure that India ca n't take anything lightly , " said Prasad . " I feel both teams are equally matched when it comes to batting and fielding. So it 's the bowling that 's going to make the difference , " Prasad said . Former India pacer Chetan Sharma felt it would be incorrect to say it was only Kallis who had an impact. " Kallis did extremely well against India , but you must remember that both teams are new in their composition. The current Indian team does not have five players who were part of the World Cup-winning campaign in 2011. So it will not be correct to pinpoint the performance of only one individual. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
