World Cup 2015 : Windies chief blasted for Gayle 'retirement ' retweet The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Feb 22 , 2015 , 01.53PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : West Indies cricket chief Dave Cameron was blasted on Sunday for apparently retweeting a demand for outspoken opener Chris Gayle to be given " a retirement package " . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 In the latest controversy to hit the World Cup team , West Indies Cricket Board ( WICB ) president Cameron 's behaviour was condemned as " unacceptable " by players ' representatives . The drama unfolded during the Windies ' match against Pakistan at Christchurch on Saturday when Gayle was out for four , stretching his run without a century in ODI cricket to 20 matches . One fan tweeted : " Gayle goes... Ca n't buy a run. Let 's give him a retirement package ... Ca n't fail repeatedly and still front up based on reputation " . Cameron then apparently retweeted the post even as the match was ongoing . The West Indies Players Association ( WIPA ) , often at loggerheads with the WICB in a long-standing battle over contracts and payments , immediately denounced Cameron . " WIPA is extremely disturbed by the unacceptable re-tweeting by Mr. Dave Cameron , President of the West Indies Cricket Board ( WICB ) , of a negative " fan " tweet which was directed at our member Mr. Christopher Gayle , " said a statement . " That Mr Cameron 's retweet came in the middle of the West Indies team 's critical game against Pakistan renders it even more unacceptable. " WIPA chief executive Wavell Hinds added : " We denounce any such behaviour by any official of the WICB in any given circumstance. " Cameron , who is seeking re-election , apologised for his actions and removed the post from his account . " No offense intended. Full apologies extended. Rally round the West Indies , " he wrote on @ davec51 . On the eve of the World Cup , Gayle had accused the WICB of victimisation after Dwayne Bravo and Kieron Pollard were axed from the squad for their roles in the abandoned tour of India last year . Gayle has since been summoned to appear before a disciplinary board to explain his comments . Despite the controversy , the West Indies went on to defeat Pakistan by 150 runs at Hagley Oval on Saturday . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
