Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 | Points Table Chasing 288 , India were at one stage struggling at 92 for four , before the Dhoni-Raina duo held centre-stage . " I think it could n't have been better in the sense if you 're playing the last game of your -- of the league stage , and if you get an easy win , you do n't get a lot out of that game. What was good was the spinners were put under pressure , and also we lost quick wickets initially , and that actually put our middle and lower middle-order under pressure , so we gained a lot out of it , " Dhoni said at the post-match media conference . Raina 's century laid the foundation and Dhoni lauded the left-hander for his stupendous effort . After initial hiccups , Suresh Raina and MS Dhoni guided India home with a 196-run stand for the fifth wicket. ( AP Photo ) " Winning , of course , was very important , but the knock by Raina was very crucial coming at No 5. More often than not , you do n't get an opportunity. You get in to bat maybe after the 38th or 39th over if your top order is batting well and you have to slog it out , so you play the big shot and get out by not scoring too many runs . We have our 1st quarterfinal confirmed and it will be HUGE ! # IND vs # BAN at @ MCG on 19 March ! http : //t.co/5AxilBhlGp pic.twitter.com/oNf8Q8XzDl — Cricket World Cup ( @ cricketworldcup ) March 14 , 2015 " At the end of the day , when you get into the knockout stages you want to have runs under your belt. It does n't really matter how many but once you get going , it just gives you that good feeling , which I feel is important in the knockout stages. " The India skipper called it a good game. " Overall that 's one of the main reasons why I would say it was a good game for us , and all the batsmen , also , they were under pressure. The ball was doing a bit and started to stop a bit , also. So overall , it was a good game , " he added . For someone who has turned chasing big scores into an art , Dhoni gave an insight into how he prepares for a big run-chase . # IND win ! That 's 10 CWC wins in a row and MS Dhoni 's men show why they are the reigning World Champs ! # INDvZIM pic.twitter.com/mPdTIS2tRU — Cricket World Cup ( @ cricketworldcup ) March 14 , 2015 " I think what 's important is to break the number of runs into small targets. You will tell yourself , okay next two or three overs let 's look for 10 runs or 15 runs or even eight runs if someone is bowling really well. But at the same time it 's a team effort. " " You ca n't really miss out the fact that somebody like Raina... the way he batted at the other end also eased up the pressure on me , and he has now done it quite a few times. I have had successful chases with Virat and Yuvraj for company also , " Dhoni said . " You ca n't always rely on the big shots. The reason being , at No. 6 , you know there is only one batsman after you and that actually puts pressure. Once you break the big into small , small targets achieving those targets it just keeps giving you confidence , maybe 10 or 12 runs or 15 runs , but you gain confidence out of every target that you achieve. Overall you keep breaking it down and in turn put the pressure back on the opposition. " Asked as to when he thought India had pocketed the game , Dhoni replied , " Which over did we win ? Actually an over before that ! " On a serious note , he said , " What 's important is to make the margin narrow , the number of deliveries to the number of runs that 's needed , and at times when you have wickets in hand you actually try to relate to an IPL scenario . " It 's our theory. If you are matching that , you are in a good position , and then you have to see which bowlers are supposed to bowl , if you have a shorter end , and all of those things play a factor - the bowler you can target etc. So it 's a mixture of everything . " It sounds very complex , but when you are in those circumstances , more often than not that it 's a situation that really works out , so you do n't have to put a lot of thinking behind it. It 's a brain that keeps working. " The skipper completely dismissed notions that playing away from home would lessen the pressure of playing the quarterfinals of a World Cup . " We have the same kind of pressure. I 've said it so many times , irrespective of which team we play or which tournament we play , we are under pressure. The good thing is that the boys are quite used to it. There had been instances where we are down , but from that position , also , we have come back strongly and we have done well , " he said . Dhoni did admit that his team had to devise new ways to counter pressure . " The fluctuation in our performance in the last few years , including the Test performances , it just pushes the guys to new ways as to how you can get out of pressure. You have this constant pressure on you and still perform and keep the morale high. " Dhoni felt that since the core unit has also been a part of 2013 Champions Trophy victory and most of the players having played in knock-out stages of IPL , they know what it means to play a big-ticket knockout match . " They ( boys ) have that experience in the sense we have played in Champions Trophy and we have done well , and it 's almost the same side. If you see a few players are missing , and then also the World T20 last time. So they know in the knockout stages they have to lift their game , and also the fact with IPL happening and once you get into the knockout stages , most of the players play from teams that do qualify or have qualified , so they know what really needs to be done , and also it 's something that we keep addressing . " As you go into the tournament it 's something that you keep stressing about because these are situations where you have to win that 50/50 scenario because you may not get a second chance , so you have to be at your best , and I think the guys will be well-equipped when it comes to the communication part to handle the situation , " the skipper signed off . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
