World Cup 2015 : Younis Khan to retire from ODIs after World Cup The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 24 , 2015 , 11.26PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 BRISBANE : Under-fire veteran Pakistan batsman Younis Khan on Tuesday announced that he will retire from one-day international cricket after the ongoing World Cup . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 However , the 37-year-old Pakistan batsman will continue to be available for selection in Test matches . " I will retire from ODI cricket after 2015 World Cup. Will continue to play Test cricket , " Khan tweeted . The veteran batsman , who was made to open the innings in the first match against India , was out for a disappointing 6 runs after fending off a rising delivery from Mohammed Shami . Brought back to his favourite No.3 position , Younis was then out for a golden duck with West Indies quick Jerome Taylor getting him caught behind . Pakistan were beaten by rivals India before slumping to a 150-run defeat to the Jason Holder-led last Saturday . The veteran batsman has served the national team in 263 ODIs during his 15-year-long career , scoring 7203 runs at an average of 31.31 . The move comes after a number of former Pakistani players called for his retirement following a string of poor scores in the ODI format . Younis was not an automatic choice for the 50-over showpiece event but a century against New Zealand in Abu Dhabi in December and the experience earned him a place in the 15-member squad . " I beg of Younis. Thank you for your services to Pakistan cricket but please leave this ODI side now , " former Test captain Rameez Raja said to a private channel today . " I think Younis should tell the management he should be rested , " Raja said . Younis ' former team mate Shoaib Akhtar has also joined the chorus demanding his retirement . Senior cricketers like Shahid Afridi and skipper Misbah-ul-Haq have already announced their decision to retire from the ODIs after the showpiece event. Younis ' retirement now could leave a gaping hole in the Pakistani batting unit . Pakistan 's next Pool B fixture is against Zimbabwe at the Gabba in Brisbane on Sunday . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
