World Cup 2015 : Zimbabwe drain continues with Taylor 's exit The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Mar 13 , 2015 , 11.44AM IST Taylor has left the door open to playing for Zimbabwe , after the deal with Nottinghamshire expires. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Zimbabwe have nothing to play for in their last game of this year 's World Cup but there might be an added motivation -giving a fitting farewell to their No. 1 player Brendan Taylor . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 The wicketkeeper-batsman has signed a three-year Kolpak deal , subject to ECB approval , with Nottinghamshire and the Eden Park game may be his last for Zimbabwe . " I 'm very , very sad to leave Zimbabwe cricket. I 've had some fond memories and I have some great friends here but life goes on and you have to try and make the best decisions for your family and moving forward , " he told a website . Taylor , who has played 23 Tests and 167 ODIs , led Zimbabwe post the 2011 World Cup and helped them notch up a famous Test win against Pakistan a couple of years back . Taylor has left the door open to playing for Zimbabwe , after the three-year deal with Nottinghamshire expires , but could also go on to qualify for England . " I 've always been very passionate about playing for Zimbabwe , I still am. I sat down with my wife and we decided to make this decision together. It has n't been easy. I feel very sad about it but at the same time very excited to be a part of one of the better county sides in England. They 've welcomed me with open arms and I 'm looking forward to cementing a good relationship with them over the next three years , " Taylor told a website two days before the match against India in Auckland . Under Taylor , Zimbabwe seemed a renewed force , despite a sparse fixture list and struggles away from home. As one of the senior-most players in the squad , Taylor played an important part in unifying the players in their off-field battles over unpaid salaries and the formation of a players ' association. He was relieved of the limited-overs ' captaincy duties . In July last year when Zimbabwe Cricket restructured and split the leadership. Taylor remained in charge of the Test team but Elton Chigumbura took over the job in other formats. Taylor gave the new captain his full support. He also expressed hope that the leadership of Dav Whatmore , who was appointed Zimbabwe coach a few months ahead of the World Cup , would lift the team 's performances in the future . " Zimbabwe is going to move forward with Dav Whatmore , there 's no doubt about that. He 's been brilliant so far , " Taylor said. " We have n't got the results we 'd have liked to but he 's a very experienced coach and he knows how to get the best out of individuals. So I 've no doubt that someone will come in and do a good job there . " We 've got a bit of depth there and some experienced players. The guys need to just step it up a little bit more , a take more responsibility , but there 's no s doubt that the talent 's there and some h great times are around the corner for Zimbabwe cricket I feel , " he said . Whatmore said Nottinghamshire r were " very , very lucky " to have Taylor in their ranks and was confident Zimbabwe could stay strong after Taylor 's exit. " We will be missing Brendan , who is going to Nottingham. They are very s lucky to have him. But we have e some good players and we will be t able to fill the void , " Whatmore said ( WITH INPUTS FROM AGENCIES ) Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
