World Cup 2015 : Zimbabwe fume over controversial Mooney catch The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 7 , 2015 , 05.53PM IST Ireland won the tense Pool B match by five runs after setting Zimbabwe a huge 332-run total to chase and stay in the tournament at Hobart 's Bellerive Oval. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 HOBART : Zimbabwe captain Brendan Taylor insisted his team had been victims of a World Cup miscarriage of justice on Saturday when Ireland fielder John Mooney held a crucial catch despite indications he had touched the boundary with his foot . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Ireland won the tense Pool B match by five runs after setting Zimbabwe a huge 332-run total to chase and stay in the tournament at Hobart 's Bellerive Oval . With Zimbabwe needing 32 to win off 20 balls and with four wickets left , Sean Williams , on 96 , launched a huge hook off Kevin O'Brien towards deep midwicket where Mooney reached high to grab the ball . But as he claimed the catch , the big Irishman appeared to slightly touch the boundary cushion with his foot which should have resulted in a six . As the decision was examined , Williams left the Bellerive Oval pitch and the catch stood . " You 've got to take his ( Mooney 's ) word for it. They zoomed in , and I thought it was pretty clear. But you 've got to take the fielder 's word , " said Taylor who hit a blistering 121 with 11 fours and four sixes as his team chased what would have been a record score . Ireland captain William Porterfield tried to downplay the controversy. " It 's very hard to tell when you 're on the line. I have n't seen a replay. Whether or not he did or did n't , it was a great catch , " he said . The result meant that Zimbabwe , with four defeats and one win , have no hope of making the quarterfinals while Ireland are still in contention after their third win and with two more group games to play this week . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
