World Cup 2015 : Zimbabwe seek happy farewell to World Cup and Taylor The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 13 , 2015 , 12.20PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AUCKLAND : Zimbabwe hope their World Cup campaign and the international career of Brendan Taylor end on a happy note in their last Pool B match against India in Auckland on Saturday . The Africans started with an impressive performance against South Africa in Hamilton , losing by 62 runs before beating the United Arab Emirates . But they then collided with record-shattering Chris Gayle in the West Indies match and a revived Pakistan as their hopes of reaching the last eight dwindled . Their five-run defeat against Ireland in Hobart ended any outside chance for them to sneak into the next stage . Taylor , who deputised as skipper for injured Elton Chigumbura , hit a fighting hundred which was in vain as a controversial catch by John Mooney to dismiss Sean Williams sealed their fate . Wicketkeeper/batsman Taylor will be playing his last international match after signing a three-year deal with Nottinghamshire . Taylor could still lead the team on Saturday in case Chigumbura fails to recover in time from a tear to the quadriceps muscle in his left leg . Taylor believes his team have the capacity to beat defending champions India who have already reached the quarterfinals . " Well , it 's another opportunity to try and get all three departments right , and if we do that , there 's no reason why we ca n't beat India , " said Taylor . " We 've beaten them before back home , so we have that belief we can do it . " Yes , they 're one of the best teams in the world playing on a pretty small ground in Auckland , but it 's a great opportunity for us to be in the World Cup and showcase our talent and skills against the best in the world . " There 's a lot to play for , a lot of pride at stake. We want to try to finish on a high note. " But it 's easier said than done as the defending champions have won all their five matches to march into the quarterfinals as the top team in Pool B . Despite the match bearing no significance for India , skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni promises the same intensity . " We 're highly motivated , in this game also. If it comes to the points , we have qualified for the next stage , but still , it was a challenge in itself , " said Dhoni after a comprehensive eight-wicket win over Ireland . " The next game will be the last before we get into the knockout stages , so we 'll keep improving every game. That 's our motive so that we can maintain the forward shift that we have got. " Asked if India could try its bench strength before the knock-out stage , Dhoni replied : " We will have to take input from the physio because the situation demands some rest ( for players ) but if there are no injury concerns then we want to put the best eleven on the ground. " India are likely to face Asian neighbours Bangladesh in the quarterfinals in Melbourne on March 19 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
