World Cup : Afridi hopeful Pakistan will break India jinx The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 10 , 2015 , 09.11AM IST Pakistan 's Shahid Afridi plays a shot against Bangladesh during a one-day international World Cup warm-up match at Blacktown Sports Park in Sydney. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Veteran Pakistan all-rounder Shahid Afridi says that Pakistan are not disheartened by the fact that they have never won a game in the World Cup against India . " There is always a first time. I know it is a crunch game for both the teams and fans from all over the world are coming to see it. The hotels have been booked months in advance. There is so much hype and the expectations of the fans are enormous. However , we have the confidence and the ability to surprise any team on give day . " But , both the teams know how to handle pressure. On our part , we plan to treat it as just another game. However , being the first game in World Cup , both will be desperate to start with a win , so that they can take the momentum and confidence into the remainder of the tournament , " Afridi said before the team took on Bangladesh in a warm-up match in Blacktown , Sydney . The match like all Indo-Pak encounters is expected to be a high-voltage encounter and Afridi says Pakistan team will play the game at Adelaide on Sunday in the best sporting spirit , " So that billions of viewers enjoy a good game of cricket. Everybody loves to see us play and we will not disappoint them. " He hoped that after the World Cup game , the two Asian neighbours will play against each other more often and not only in World Cups. " We have not played each other often enough. I hope we get to play against each other even outside the World Cup. " Despite Pakistan being without three of their main players due to injury and Saeed Ajmal out due to problems with his bowling action , he said no team can take Pakistan lightly. " We have the ability to surprise any team on our day. We have the confidence that we are the best team and Inshallah we will give our best. " Afridi is eyeing a major milestone , a double of 8000 runs and 400 wickets in ODIs as he prepares to shoulder extra bowling responsibility in the absence of two main spinners Hafeez and Ajmal . The 35-year-old Pathan had announced his intention to retire from ODIs after his fifth World Cup. He has played 391 ODIs , amassing 7948 runs at 23.58 and a strike rate of 116 , belting 345 sixes along the way . He has taken 393 wickets at 33.96 at an economy rate of 4.62. He just requires another 52 runs and seven wickets to complete a rare double during the big-ticket event . Old enough to recall watching Pakistan 's only World Cup triumph in Australia 23 years ago , Afridi rates the 1992 team stronger in the bowling department than the current squad , which is mired by injuries . " The 1992 team was a combination of seniors and youngsters. This team has got some talented youngsters as well and we 're expecting a lot from them , " Afridi said . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
