READ ALSO : Rohit Sharma : Coming to terms with talent " We are young and we have got a lot of time for bonding within the team. We are hungry for success and are ready to express ourselves. The World Cup is the biggest tournament for us now. We have to look to be positive all the time and enjoy each other 's company , " Raina said at an open house press meet . " In the 2011 World Cup , we had a lot of meetings which were led mostly by Sachin paaji. He was a big source of encouragement and from his experience we learnt a lot. I also spent a lot of time with ( coach ) Gary Kirsten in that World Cup . " I have also learnt from Dhoni and Yuvi ( Yuvraj Singh ) to play free cricket. In the previous World Cup , Yuvi finished games well with the bat and Zaheer did the job with the ball , " he said . Raina feels that the passage of four years has made no changes to his role or responsibilities , only that he has gained a bit more experience. " The responsibilities are the same irrespective of the tournament and age. In this World Cup , I wo n't call myself a senior but I do have good camaraderie with the younger guys in the side as compared to 2011. " 'I WANT TO MAKE THE MOST OF MY FIRST WORLD CUP' Rohit Sharma was not part of the team that won the World Cup at home four years ago. But he has vivid memories of the final played at the Wankhede in his hometown Mumbai. Having missed out then , the fit-again batsman wants to make the most of this opportunity . " Being a part of the team this time , there is a bit of nerves but also excitement. I missed out on the last World Cup in India and am keen to make this one count and make it big , without putting too much pressure on myself , " Rohit told the media on the eve of the warm-up match against Australia on Sunday . Having recovered from a sore hamstring he suffered during his superb century ( 138 ) against Australian at the MCG , Sharma sounded cheerful and exuded confidence. He had missed three games in the tri-series but is now fit and raring to go . Asked what motivated him to go out and perform on the big stage , he said : " Once you wear the Indian jersey , it is motivation enough to go and perform on the field. If you are not motivated enough wearing the Indian jersey , then you are just doing yourself a favour by showing up at the ground. " In a free-flowing chat with the media , Rohit reminisced the days when as a passionate youngster he watched the World Cup on TV. " I still remember the catch Ajay Jadeja took in the 1992 World Cup to dismiss Alan Border. It is my oldest World Cup memory , " he said . " I remember watching it on TV and that was the time the World Cup fever was growing in India. Also , the India-Pakistan match at Centurion ( South Africa ) in 2003 is the best I have watched Sachin Tendulkar bat. You could feel the heat. Even though I was not at the game I could feel it. It was so good to watch that game and it is something I will never forget. Right from the toss till the last ball , everything was intense and I could n't take my eyes off the TV . " When it comes to the most recent one , it has to be the final of the 2011 World Cup in Mumbai. I was not part of the side but it was good to watch the boys lift the World Cup. It is something that is going to remain in our memories forever since it was played at home. " Asked about the pressure of the India-Pakistan game , he replied , " The pressure will be on them rather than us. They are the ones who have not won a game against us in the World Cup. We will try and use it to our advantage . " It will be a big game against Pakistan. But we need to concentrate more on the process. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
