World Cup betting racket may have been worth Rs 4,000 crore : ED The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Mar 20 , 2015 , 09.51PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AHMEDABAD : The international betting racket on the ongoing cricket world cup , busted on Thursday , could have involved transactions worth over Rs 4,000 crore a year , an official of the Enforcement Directorate said on Friday . The ED arrested bookies Kiran Mala and Tommy Patel from a farmhouse near Vadodara city yesterday during a raid , and seized 15 laptops , 100 cell-phones and some other electronic devices . A search at Mala 's Maninagar house late last night led to discovery of some documents related to the betting network , and 40 revolver cartridges . " So far the ED has arrested 13 persons , which includes 11 punters who worked for these two men. Today the ED recovered Rs 25 lakh from a punter who lived here , " said the official . Accordingly , Tommy Patel is a councillor of Unjha municipality in Mehsana district ; he had been arrested for involvement in IPL spot-fixing case in 2013. He was accused of paying Rs 1 lakh to a city-based cricketer to fix a match , and got bail later . Mala and Patel took bets of as much as Rs 20 crore on each World Cup match and were in touch with all the big bookies in the country . " In addition , they were in real-time contact with bookies in Pakistan and Dubai. For a single match they took bets of Rs 10 crore from Pakistan- and Dubai-based bookies , and another Rs 10 crore bets from Indian bookies. They used mobile phones , Skype as well as Betfair.com ( an online betting exchange ) , " the official said . The betting transactions handled by this racket altogether may have run into Rs 4,000 crore per year , it is estimated . Mala and Patel had been arrested at Unjha , Mumbai and Goa for betting in the past ( but got bail subsequently ) and they used the hawala network for international transactions , the investigators have learnt . " Each year they took bets of Rs 20 crore each on more than 200 international and domestic cricket matches , " said the official . All the 13 arrested persons have been handed over to Vadodara police . " Under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act , ED ca n't keep them in custody for interrogation until police register an FIR. The ED will later also probe their links to Dubai underworld , " the official said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
