Cricketing raconteur Henry Blofeld shares his World Cup tales . 1975 WORLD CUP FINAL | | West Indies v Australia | | LORDS Only eight teams took part in those days in a tournament of just two weeks . It was something of an experiment that paved the way for one-day cricket as we know it today. I was working for the BBC at this first-ever final and witnessed one of the great one-day innings from Clive Lloyd . I can still see him pulling a Doug Walters long hop into the back of the mount stand for six. A wonderful man , and a wonderful ambassador for West Indies cricket. It was the shot that John Arlott famously said was like " a man hitting the top off a thistle with a walking stick " . 1983 WC FINAL | | India v West Indies | | LORDS It looked as if the West Indies had absolutely done it when they bowled out India for 183. The turning point for me , and the wicket I will always remember , was that of Viv Richards when Madan Lal came on. Richards pulled a short one , got a top edge and Kapil Dev swirled and hovered with the whole of India holding their breath. It was a fairly straight forward catch but I ca n't believe there was ever a more pressured one in World Cup history. With one-day cricket in its infancy at that time , it was one of the biggest shocks the sport had ever seen . 1987 WC FINAL | | England v Australia | | EDEN GARDENS I remember the final in Calcutta. Oh dear Mike Gatting and that reverse sweep of Allan Border . It was a shot that did n't quite come off. I believe the ball hit him on the shoulder and flew behind the stumps to Greg Dyer. He was so surprised he almost dropped the ball. I am sure England would have won without that incident. Of course they have n't won a World Cup since. It was the finishing match no one wanted as India and Pakistan had both gone out in the semi-finals. There were thousands of people but the crowd was clinical rather than passionate as it watched a neutral final . 1992 WC SEMI-FINAL | | New Zealand v Pakistan | | AUCKLAND New Zealand looked odds on to reach the final when they posted 262 against Pakistan. That was the first time we had heard of dear old Inzamam. He was still only a teenager then , and came in with Pakistan in real trouble. He hit 60 off in quick time to win the game for Pakistan. Given his youth and the situation , it was one of the finest World Cup performances in history .I remember Auckland being silenced and my colleagues in the commentary box could n't believe what had happened. I really think New Zealand would have gone on to win the tournament if they had won that game. Pakistan of course went on to beat England in the final. This was the first World Cup with coloured clothes , and I can still see a dashing Imran Khan in his lime green pyjamas holding the trophy aloft . 1996 WC FINAL | | Australia v Sri Lanka | | LAHORE This was of course the World Cup where the phrase pinch hitting became popular with Sri Lanka openers Jayasuriya and Kaluwitharana. We had n't really heard the phrase until then. Nor had we really heard of those two batsmen. Of course , they both went on to have very long careers. That win over Australia was the real catalyst for Sri Lanka to move forward. I do n't know how many World Cup matches Sri Lanka had won before 1996 but I am sure you could count them on one hand. And here they were in the final and beating Australia. Ironically there was n't a great deal of pinch hitting in that match. It was a magical innings from Aravinda De Silva that did it in the end . Blofeld will host Stumped , a new weekly radio programme about cricket , Saturdays at 6am IST on BBC World Service and 11.30am IST on AIR . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
