World Cup : Bookies fancy Australia , India available at 9/1 The author has posted comments on this article Shailendra Awasthi , TNN | Feb 13 , 2015 , 10.39AM IST The mouth watering clash between subcontinents arch rivals India and Pakistan , to be held on coming Sunday , wears a close look with Indian being touted as favourite at 80/100 ( 80 paisa for a rupee ) . ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : The response from the advertisers may have been lacklustre for the World Cup owing to India 's poor performance against Australia and England in recently concluded Tri-series but the punters have started warming up for the mega event . According to sources in the betting industry the money has started trickling in and bookmakers have picked up nearly 10 thousand crores across the country . A Mumbai based bookie has already registered a collection of nearly 80 lakhs in the last few days. " It will certainly pick up heavily once the matches get going and it is difficult to estimate how much total collection can reach. All I can say is that sky is the limit , " he told TOI on Thursday . Three-time champions Australia is again hot favourite at 2/1 ( two rupees for every rupee ) with South Africa second in demand at 3/1. With the matches played in their backyard , New Zealand is next in demand at 5/1. India ( 9/1 ) , England ( 10/1 ) and Sri Lanka ( 12/1 ) are next choices for the followers of form and money . Pakistan ( 16/1 ) and West Indies ( 25/1 ) are the other two teams next in the reckoning. The minnows of this mega event are available at longer odds . Bangladesh ( 200/1 ) , Ireland ( 250/1 ) , Zimbabwe ( 400/1 ) and , Afghanistan ( 500/1 ) , Scotland ( 800/1 ) and United Arab Emirates ( 1000/1 ) are virtually ignored by the punters as despite the sport being called game of glorious uncertainties , they feels there is no way these minnows can land a shocking title win . The mouth watering clash between subcontinents arch rivals India and Pakistan , to be held on coming Sunday , wears a close look with Indian being touted as favourite at 80/100 ( 80 paisa for a rupee ) . Pakistan carries a tag of 6/4 . KNOW YOUR BETTING The forms of betting in India hugely differ with the way punters bet abroad. With betting on cricket illegal in India , punters have to develop a good rapport with bookies as the entire betting is done on phone and dividends , if any , can only be collected later.Abroad , where betting is legal , there are many ways one can place bets. Many websites like Ladbrokes , Betfair , Williamhill offer betting options not available to India-based punters . Betting in India : Apart from regular bets on a team winning a match or tournament , one can also bet against favourite teams not winning a particular match or tournament. Then there is betting in brackets of 10 overs each in a given match where a punter need to predict a target score for a 10 over bracket. The odds keep changing for that bracket based on the performance with each over passing . Betting abroad : Here apart from regular bets for win , punters can also put their money on top scorer of the tourney or a match , on the most number of century maker or so on . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
