World Cup cricket betting racket busted in Ratlam , grocery trader arrested The author has posted comments on this article Anuraag Singh , TNN | Feb 27 , 2015 , 06.29PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 INDORE : Just an hour after the Proteas batsmen started clouting the Caribbean 's at Australia 's Sydney Cricket Ground , thousands of kms away in Ratlam district of Madhya Pradesh , the police busted an alleged World Cup cricket betting racket on Friday morning . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Acting on specific inputs about a WhatsApp based World Cup cricket betting racket being operated in Dhan Mandi-Naharpura locality of Ratlam , the Manakchouk police raided the three storeyed house of grocery trader Dipak Sindhi and busted the betting racket . " In the first hour of South Africa vs West Indies match , investment worth over Rs 1.5 lakh had been made by clients of the racket over phone from Ratlam , Ujjain , Indore and other districts of MP. The 39-year-old grocery trader Dipak Sindhi was arrested from the third storey of the house operating the racket , " Manakchouk police station in-charge Dinesh Verma told TOI . An LCD , two set-top boxes , five cell-phones and a calculator have been recovered from the spot and transaction slips recovered from the spot suggest that over Rs 1.5 lakh had been invested in the racket in the first hour of the match , added Verma . Investigations have revealed that Dipak who had shut down his grocery shop recently , owing to sustained losses , had taken a plunge into cricket betting with the start of the ICC World Cup in Australia-New Zealand . " We 're now trying to find out how much money had been pooled in the racket since the start of the 2015 World Cup , " said Verma . The Manakchouk police are also investigating the possibility of the racket also operating through a WhatsApp group , besides the conventional paper diary route . The arrested grocery trader has been booked under provisions of Gambling Act and the Information and Technology Act . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
