World Cup : Emotions to run high for India-Pakistan clash The author has posted comments on this article Reuters | Feb 3 , 2015 , 02.09PM IST Pakistan , champions in 1992 , have never beaten twice winners India at a World Cup. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Cricket is just a game , but try telling that to the 22 players who will walk out for the India v Pakistan World Cup match in Adelaide on February 15 . The Pool B contest was sold out in 20 minutes and no other team in world sport will be under as much pressure as the two that day with 1.3 billion unforgiving cricket-crazy fans following the contest ball by ball . Emotions run high every time the south Asian neighbours , who have fought three wars since independence and share frosty relations over the Kashmir region they both claim , clash on a cricket ground . Pakistan , champions in 1992 , have never beaten twice winners India at a World Cup . Many of their fans would not mind their team crashing out from the World Cup early , providing they beat their neighbours. The rivalry assuming the Orwellian concept of serious sport - war minus shooting . " For many , it 's bigger than World Cup , " former Pakistan speedster Shoaib Akhtar told a cricket conclave in Delhi on Monday . " It completely locks out 1.3 billion people. The tension is unbearable and the players ' effort level doubles. We could never beat India in World Cup but , God willing , that would soon happen , " said the quick known as the 'Rawalpindi Express' . A veteran of many such contests , Harbhajan Singh was part of the eventual champion Indian team who beat Pakistan in the 2011 semifinal at Mohali , a contest that gave him sleepless nights . " The dressing room atmosphere is always tense , " said the feisty off-spinner who could not make the cut for this year 's World Cup . " Much before the dressing room , you think about it in your hotel room. Before last World Cup 's match in Mohali , I could not sleep the night before , thinking what if we lose . " Fortunately we won the next day and again I could not sleep , this time because I was so overjoyed . " A defeat against Pakistan means media would roast us and fans would pelt stones at our house , " said the 34-year-old . His team mate from the 2011 squad , Piyush Chawla , said the pressure does not come from the team management . " It comes from elsewhere. Even family members and friends remind us it 's a match against Pakistan , " said the 26-year-old leg-spinner . " Fielding in the deep , you often hear the crowd behind warning you 'better win this match or it wo n't be easy to get out of the stadium'. " Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
