World Cup exit shines light on England 's one-day woes The author has posted comments on this article AFP | Mar 10 , 2015 , 11.49AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 SYDNEY : " We thought 275 was chaseable. We shall have to look at the data. " With those words , uttered following a defeat by Bangladesh in Adelaide on Monday that knocked England out of the World Cup , Peter Moores appeared to write his own epitaph for his second spell as coach of the national side . It did not require great statistical analysis to understand why England had gone down by 15 runs to Bangladesh -- long regarded as the whipping boys of international cricket but now victorious over England at two successive World Cups . The simple truth is England were yet again out-batted and out-bowled. But Moores 's words appeared emblematic of an inflexible England set-up , where too many players were unable to think on their feet . How the tournament was set-up , with four teams from each of the two pools of seven going through to the quarter-finals , ought to have made it all but impossible for a leading team to fail to reach the last eight . " We would have to have an absolute stinker not to make the quarter-finals , " said England paceman Stuart Broad back in January . And that is what England had. Monday 's loss followed crushing defeats by Australia ( 111 runs ) , New Zealand ( eight wickets ) and Sri Lanka ( nine wickets ) and meant there was no way England could go through to the knockout phase . Their only win of the tournament so far has been against Scotland , a non-Test side . Now England , one of the world 's wealthiest cricket nations , will head into Friday 's final 'dead ' pool game against Afghanistan -- who 've also beaten the Scots -- with exactly the same number of points as a team who mainly learnt how to play cricket in refugee camps . Yet England 's latest World Cup exit -- far worse than the previous nadir of 1999 when the then hosts crashed out in the first round on net run-rate even before the tournament theme song had been released -- was no great surprise . " Eng had the wrong team , the wrong style of play & everyone could see it , tonight 's result not a shock , " tweeted Australia great Shane Warne and it was hard to disagree , with their inherently cautious approach in marked contrast to that of leading one-day teams . Even though it pioneered the staging of one-day and Twenty20 games on a professional basis , there has long been a snobbery about the limited overs format in England , with many cricket lovers insisting it 's not the real deal . Yet there need not be a contradiction between Test and one-day success -- Australia had plenty of both while winning three consecutive World Cups from 1999-2007 . Although England have never won the World Cup , they did appear in three finals between 1975 to 1992 . But England have been trying to play catch-up in one-day cricket ever since being on the receiving end of opener Sanath Jayasuriya 's 82 off 67 balls in a quarter-final loss to Sri Lanka at the 1996 World Cup . The 1990s and early 2000s also saw England well-beaten in several successive Ashes series by Australia . That led to a renewed focus by officials on Tests with the impression given that ODIs were little more than money-spinners . " This is not just about this tournament , " said under-fire England and Wales Cricket Board managing director Paul Downton on Monday . " It goes back to a domestic structure , and putting an emphasis in this country more on Test cricket than one-day cricket and that has to change , " added the former England wicketkeeper , instrumental in the decision to recall Moores and effectively exile star batsman Kevin Pietersen last year following England 's 5-0 Ashes thrashing in Australia England , however , did n't make the most of what resources they had after a warm-up tour of Sri Lanka generated further problems when in a major U-turn , they dropped Test skipper Alastair Cook and brought in Eoin Morgan as captain in his place . It made little difference , with Morgan 's nought against Bangladesh his fifth duck in nine innings . Alex Hales , a dynamic opening batsman of the kind employed by many top one-day sides , did n't play at the World Cup until the Bangladesh game -- and then as as a number three . Meanwhile England 's most experienced bowlers , Broad and James Anderson , were their most expensive with averages of 78.66 and 56.75 respectively and defenceless when the ball was n't swinging . The next World Cup , in 2019 , is in England but 'home advantage ' may count for even less than it did in 1999 unless Monday 's events shame the side into a new approach . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
