World Cup hits Valentine 's Day frenzy over the fence The author has posted comments on this article Ankur Tewari , TNN | Feb 14 , 2015 , 10.33PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 AHMEDABAD : With the cricket World Cup set to play villain , love will be divided this Valentine 's Day. Due to the boys ' ubiquitous love of cricket , Cupid came a day in advance this year . Most collegians want ultimate freedom and be one with the game throughout the World Cup season and have rearranged romance timings. Since boys are more thrilled about the game than taking lady loves out for romantic outings , they have also prepared rules for girlfriends to keep their relationships risk-free . Such is Mihir Patel 's fixation with cricket that he told his girlfriend Sonal Shah a month in advance about shifting the V-Day party to an earlier date. This led to a bitter fight between the couple but the IIT-Gandhinagar student pacified Sonal by taking her on a romantic drive followed by a candlelit dinner . Aakansha Shah from LD College was so miffed with her boyfriend 's fondness for the World Cup that she suggested they reschedule the Valentine 's lunch. " I do n't have an issue with my boy being glued to the TV and not talking during the game , but on Valentine 's Day it is intolerable. Since he is obsessed with the game to the point of not attending any functions for the entire series , I asked him for a candlelit dinner a day before the world cup starts , " Shah said . Nitesh Chavda from GNLU went a step further. He set guidelines for his girlfriend Jainisha Chavda — to forgive him if he accidentally forgets any important date and not expect any long outings during the during the season. " I was lucky as we cordially struck a deal after a brief fight. We will celebrate Valentine 's Day when the cup ends. Till then , she is happy with her gift , a diamond ring , " Nitesh said . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
