World Cup : India hit Pakistan for six The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 16 , 2015 , 03.25AM IST Players and spectators celebrate India 's victory over Pakistan in the Pool B 2015 Cricket World Cup match between India and Pakistan at the Adelaide Oval , on February 15 , 2015. ( AFP photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Team India overcame its recent poor form and successfully defied the law of averages to extend its proud World Cup record against Pakistan to six victories without a single defeat. The defending champions hammered their arch-rivals by 76 runs — the biggest margin in a World Cup match between the two teams — to get their campaign off to a morale-boosting start . Scorecard | Match in Pics The crushing victory was set up by man of the match Virat Kohli who continued his passionate romance with the Adelaide Oval , scoring his fourth century in only his seventh innings here. Already , Adelaide has become Kohli 's happy hunting ground in the same way that Sydney was for Sachin Tendulkar , Port of Spain for Sunil Gavaskar and Eden Gardens for VVS Laxman . Kohli had been below par in the recently concluded tri-series and warm-up matches , but he usually reserves his best for the big stage and they do n't come any larger than this. He offered two chances - at 3 and 76 - but apart from that , there was almost a sense of inevitability as he serenely cruised to 107 off 128 deliveries. It 's not only the first century scored by an Indian in a Cup match against Pakistan , but also the highest score by a player from either side in an India-Pakistan World Cup game . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 Kohli now has 22 ODI centuries and is joint second with Sourav Ganguly for most ODI tons scored by an Indian. Already hailed as an all-time ODI great by the likes of Viv Richards , he is bound to score many more tons , but few will be able to match this one for significance . There was lots more for India to feel good about. Shikhar Dhawan ( 73 off 76 balls ) and Suresh Raina ( 74 off 56 balls ) , who had both been struggling for form going into this match , clicked when it mattered and helped set up India for a big score. The team stuttered towards the end , losing 5 wickets and scoring just 25 runs in the last 5 overs , but the momentum built up by the top order was enough to propel the score to 300/7 - a record for an India-Pakistan World Cup game . The Indian attack , long derided as toothless , seemed energized by the prospect of bowling with some runs in the bank. Mohammed Shami was justly rewarded for some hostile spells with figures of 4-35. M S Dhoni too did almost everything right as captain , including winning the all-important toss and choosing to bat. He also reviewed correctly , getting the dangerous Umar Akmal declared caught behind off Ravindra Jadeja after the umpire had initially ruled in the batsman 's favour . For a change , Dhoni was spot-on with his field placements. The fielders obliged , cutting off runs and taking some sharp catches. The Pakistani batsmen did the rest , imploding under the pressure of the big chase as skipper Misbah-ul-Haq was left forlornly waging a lone battle. His 76 off 84 balls helped prolong the Pakistan innings till the 47th over but the match had ended as a contest long before the final wicket fell . Before Sunday , India had managed to spend almost three months in Australia without winning a single official match. They could n't have picked a better opposition and occasion to get off the mark. There are still many concerns about the team , which may well be exploited by stronger rivals. But its prospects are suddenly appearing a whole lot brighter . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
