World Cup : India vs Pakistan — it doesn ’ t get any bigger than this The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 15 , 2015 , 05.45AM IST Youngsters in Ranchi , Indian skipper MS Dhoni 's hometown , gear up for the India vs Pakistan match at World Cup 2015 to be played today at Adelaide. ( PTI photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Pakistani fans love to quote a certain set of figures : 72-50. That 's Pakistan 's record against India in all One-day internationals. Indian fans are quick to retort that the numbers that really count are 5-0 — which is how India has fared against Pakistan in all World Cup matches between the two teams so far . The last time the two teams played in a World Cup match in Australia was in 1992 , the last time they played on Australian soil was in 2000. India won both matches. The pressure on India 's players to maintain that winning record is excruciating. The pressure on the Pakistani team to break their World Cup jinx is unimaginable . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 India has looked distinctly unimpressive in their tour of Australia so far , while the present Pakistani side has been written off as a pale shadow of the great teams that thrilled the world with their skills and flair in the past. But none of that will matter today. Nothing lifts both sides more than the chance to be part of the greatest rivalry in the game . On the eve of the most awaited match of the 2015 World Cup , both captains did their best to play down the hype . " It is a bit different from a normal game. What we try is to keep that slight difference nominal , and try to play like we would against any other international team , " said Indian skipper MS Dhoni . " You do n't have to worry about what 's happening outside , what 's going on in the countries. I think you need to focus on your game , go there , and play your best. You do n't have to be afraid , because you ca n't control the result , " said Pakistan 's Misbah-ul-Haq. Yeah , right . READ ALSO : Fans gear up for India-Pakistan grudge match The captains may be making all the right noises , but just try telling that to the 45,000-odd spectators expected today , who ensured the match was sold out within 20 minutes of tickets being put for sale. Or to the millions who will be glued to their TV sets , bringing life in the subcontinent to a virtual standstill . TOI spoke to many fans who have come here from different parts of the world and not one was of the view that " the better team should win. " Rashid Mansoor , who has come all the way from Karachi , said , " I wo n't mind even if Pakistan does not win the Cup as long as they can beat India for the first time in a World Cup game. It has really rankled every time Pakistan has lost a World Cup match to our neighbours. I ca n't take it anymore. It is high time we give it back to them. " " Inshallah , iss baar Pakistan zaroor jeetega. That 's why I have come all the way from Lahore to cheer for my team. I remember watching every match in 1992 when Pakistan won the World Cup here , " said Haji Peer Mohammed , sporting a flowing white beard . READ ALSO : 2003 WC match against Pakistan best game of my life , Sachin says The Indian fans too are not far behind in showing nationalistic fervour. Satbir Singh , a businessman from Chandigarh , said : " For me , it was double joy as our team had defeated Pakistan at Mohali and then gone on to win the World Cup four years ago. I had seen that Mohali game and was determined to make it to Adelaide ever since the schedule was announced some months ago. I hope India maintain their supremacy over their rivals in the World Cup. If they can go on to win the tournament , it will be icing on the cake for us Indians who have come all the way to Australia. " With the prime ministers of the two countries individually wishing their players luck and also greeting each other before the match , it has set the tone for the cricket-crazy nations . Interestingly , this will be the first India-Pakistan World Cup match which will not feature Sachin Tendulkar. The little master won the man-of-the-match award in three of the five matches. His 98 at Centurion — the highest score by any Indian in an India-Pakistan World Cup match — is one of the biggest jewels in his glittering crown . READ ALSO : India 's overconfidence may let them down , Shoaib Akhtar says Saeed Anwar scored 101 in the same game to become the only player so far to hit a ton in an India-Pakistan World Cup game. Somebody today could add his name to the record books , and take a huge stride towards greatness — or infamy. A player could become a hero or a villain for a lifetime , depending on how he fares today . Did someone say it 's just another game ?
