World Cup is about the unexpected , not form : Kirsten The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Feb 9 , 2015 , 10.32AM IST Former India coach Gary Kirsten felt that with batsmen like Virat Kohli and skipper MS Dhoni in their ranks , India could never be ruled out. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : Their awful form of late may have forced many to seriously doubt their chances in the upcoming World Cup , but former India coach Gary Kirsten is yet to give up on his ex-team . " I do n't know why everyone is writing India off. They are a great side , with a bunch of terrific individual players , who are very proud of their performance , and India won the Champions Trophy only a couple of years back , " Kirsten said at an event which was promoted by Royal Stag and Radio Mirchi . The hero of India 's 1983 World Cup winning team , Mohinder Amanath , too was present on the occasion . Kirsten felt that with batsmen like Virat Kohli and skipper MS Dhoni in their ranks , India could never be ruled out. " You have a batsman like Virat , who has a terrific record , and Dhoni is still the best finisher in world cricket , " he said . Kirsten was n't worried about the injury-ridden pace attack of the team too. " That happens with every team , " he said. Kirsten refused to see much in India 's winless record in Australia since last winter . " That could be a good thing , actually. The World Cup is about the 'unexpected, ' not form , " he quipped. " The Indians would have got used to the conditions Down Under now. It 's just that the batsmen have to adjust their technique to account for the extra bounce , " he remarked . The former opening batsman recalled that the Indian team almost walked out 'hungry ' before their epic semifinal clash against Pakistan in the last World Cup in 2011 at Mohali . " The breakfast room at the hotel was shut because of security reasons , as some 'consortium ' had arrived for the match from Pakistan. We then missed out on lunch too because the van carrying it was stuck while on its way to the airport due to huge traffic on the roads . " Luckily , my players managed to grab something before they went out to play. They coped brilliantly with this unexpected development , which is what a World Cup is about , " Kirsten reminisced . Some people still feel that the India would miss the experience of Yuvraj Singh and Gautam Gambhir. " I do n't know why they were n't selected , but the young players have done pretty well for India , " he said . Recalling his association with the Indian team from 2008 to 2011 , Kirsten said. " I asked all the players to write down on a piece of paper in which area did they wanted to improve. I got interesting answers , and followed up with each individual 's progress. " He also revealed that bating legend Sachin Tendulkar was n't enjoying his game when Kirsten joined the team , but things changed when both developed a good rapport while working out in the nets . Meanwhile , the hero of India 's 1983 World Cup win Mohinder Amarnath observed that India did not look like a champion side and the loss of form of key players Dhawan and Kohli is hurting India . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
