World Cup : MS Dhoni firm on Virat Kohli at No. 4 The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Jan 30 , 2015 , 10.14AM IST Virat protects the brittle middle order , Dhoni said. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 PERTH : Skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni feels Virat Kohli batting at No. 4 is crucial to India 's strategy for the World Cup , and he plans to continue with it. The team , however , is fast losing the plot and has just a few games in hand before the start of the World Cup . With the openers , especially Shikhar Dhawan , in poor form and the other batsmen not scoring heavily either , India will soon be under pressure to have a rethink on sending Kohli at No. 4 after he excelled at No. 3 during the Test series . Dhoni intends to continue with the plan as he is concerned with the lack of batting depth and its inability to exploit the second Powerplay and the slog overs . " Kohli is batting at No. 4 because the middle and lower order is not experienced. We need him there to compensate for that. We are going to stick to the plan as we think it is crucial for India 's fortunes in the World Cup , " the skipper said on the eve of the ODI against England at Perth on Thursday. The skipper had a lot more to say . Excerpts : WINLESS SO FAR IN TRI-SERIES : What 's important for us is to put runs on the board and look to defend it. We have not been able to do that in the couple of games that we have played so far. To some extent we have got partnerships going but we have not been able to capitalize on that. We are not being able to score much in the last 10-12 overs , because we do not have wickets in hand. It 's part of our strategy but at the same time it is not controllable . VIRAT KOHLI AT NO. 4 : The reason why Virat is batting at No. 4 is because of the lack of strength in the middle and lower orders. With Jadeja ( Ravindra ) not being there and with Axar ( Patel ) getting a chance , you have to see where you stand. Batting at No. 6 , I am worried about the tail , whether they can utilize the last 8-10 overs. Virat has to bat at No. 4 so that we can rally around him and if he stays long. By the time I get in or Raina goes in and he is still there , then we can capitalize on the second Powerplay and from there on follow it up in the last 10 overs . TOP ORDER CONCERNS : It is not a big concern. More than the poor form of the top order , it is losing too many wickets in the middle overs that worries me. You do n't want wickets to fall in a heap but that 's what is happening with us . ON SHIKHAR DHAWAN : Every cricketer goes through a bad patch. I do n't think he had a brilliant England ( Test ) series also but I felt he did decently in the ODIs ( that followed ) . A change of format can really work in your favour. It is always about those first 10-15 minutes. You play a couple of good shots , you hit the middle of the bat and you are back in form. Again as I said , form is abstract. You can come into form and go out of form very quickly . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
