World Cup : PM Modi calls up Saarc leaders , including Sharif , to wish luck The author has posted comments on this article TNN | Feb 13 , 2015 , 11.19AM IST PM Narendra Modi on Thursday posted 15 tweets for the 15-member Indian squad , who will open their World Cup title defence against arch-rivals Pakistan on February 15. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 NEW DELHI : Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday conveyed his best wishes to the leaders of the SAARC Nations to wish their teams good luck for the ICC World Cup 2015 that starts from Saturday . " 5 SAARC Nations are playing & are excited about the World Cup. Am sure WC will celebrate sportsman spirit & will be a treat for sports lovers , " Modi said in a series of tweets . Modi spoke to Pakistan PM Nawaz Sharif , Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani , Sri Lanka President Maithripala Sirisena and Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina and wished them good luck saying cricket promotes goodwill among these nations and hopes the players from SAARC will bring glory to the region . Spoke to President @ ashrafghani , PM Sheikh Hasina , PM Nawaz Sharif & President Sirisena. Conveyed my best wishes for the Cricket World Cup . — Narendra Modi ( @ narendramodi ) February 13 , 2015 " Cricket connects people in our region & promotes goodwill. Hope players from SAARC region play with passion & bring laurels to the region , " also tweeted Modi . Earlier on Thursday , Modi wished each and every player of Indian cricket team playing in the World Cup in a series of tweets . Modi posted 15 tweets for the 15-member Indian squad , who will open their World Cup title defence against arch-rivals Pakistan on February 15 . My best wishes to captain cool @ msdhoni . Play hard , lead well & make India proud. Knowing you , I am sure you will . — Narendra Modi ( @ narendramodi ) February 12 , 2015 The Prime Minister boosted the confidence of each player according to their playing roles in the team . India had lost their first World Cup warm-up match against Australia but registered a victory against minnows Afghanistan in their next warm-up match . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
