The author has posted comments on this article Charu Sharma , TNN | Mar 16 , 2015 , 09.14PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 Whether it 's Virat Kohli 's David Beckham-inspired Mohawk , Shikhar Dhawan 's pig tail , or Shakib Al-Hassan 's faux hawk , the funky hairdos of the cricketers have made quite a few head 's turn this World Cup . As bowlers run up with their hair flying or wiping the sweat off their fashionable mane , the game no longer looks like the boring gentlemen 's game invented on the sprawling fields of England. Check out these dudes and the hairstyles and you will know how much the game has changed . Shakib Al Hasan T he 27-year-old Bangladeshi bowler has been sporting a faux hawk - a Mohawk variant in which the sides are not shaved ! His look is an instant hit. If only his team was performing as well as his hairstyle ! Shikhar Dhawan It 's a cross between the nearly shaved pate of Aamir Khan in Ghajini and thin moustache that demands it be twirled every few minutes. Add the big scores and hits and he turns into an eye-candy with oodles of sex appeal. The pigtail just adds the right amount of drama. We like ! Virat Kohli T he Indian vice-captain 's new hairdo has been the talk of the town. Virat Kohli shifts between a crew cut and a Mohawk that footballer Cristiano Ronaldo sported in the football World Cup. This is an easy enough style to carry off that was first made popular by David Beckham , who sported it in 2002. Closer home , at one match when MS Dhoni took off his helmet , the jaws dropped to the ground. The Mohawk has been trending ever since . Dale Steyn While he may give jitters to any batsman with his on-field moves , this South-African fast bowler is also known for changing his hairstyles often. And this time , he has opted for something similar to a Mohawk. Steyn has apparently styled his new look with the help of his girlfriend , Jeanne Kietzmann . Andre Russell Say funky and this is what it looks like ! Andre Russell is not only a big hitter , but knows his style too well. The West Indian all-rounder has been the centre of attention with the new look he has been sporting this World Cup ! Curly crop with sides shaved and teamed with a thin beard , this is a sure-shot eye grabber , is n't it ? Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
