World Cup 2015 : Sledgers behave as ban threat looms large The author has posted comments on this article Dwaipayan Datta , TNN | Feb 17 , 2015 , 08.32AM IST Sohail Khan of Pakistan and Virat Kohli of India exchange words on the field during the 2015 ICC World Cup match at Adelaide Oval. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 There has n't been a single case of sledging in this World Cup so far and one understands it is the ban threat that is stopping the players from misbehaving on the field . Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 " The teams were called for a meeting where Ranjan Madugalle and Billy Bowden were also there. The ICC authorities made it very clear they do n't want any sledging in this World Cup , " a team source told TOI. The teams were told that the penalty is going to be very harsh if the players cross the line. Most of the teams in the World Cup do n't bother too much for monetary penalty , and that 's the reason ICC has threatened to ban the concerned player or the captain for a game or two. " This threat of ban has worked well till now. None of the teams want their key players to be banned in the middle of the tournament , " source added . ICC CEO Dave Richardson had said ahead of the World Cup that they have enforced a zero-tolerance approach in the tournament. The teams feel that the recent onfield spats between Virat Kohli and David Warner have led ICC to take this decision. " The ICC authorities told us that things have gone a little too far and it ca n't go any further , " the source added . Meanwhile , ICC 's Anti Corruption Unit officials have kept a close watch on the situation but they have n't been overbearing. The players need not tell them about their whereabouts when they are going out , but they are keeping a watch on the situation. " The officials have told us to report against any approach by anybody who is not known to us. But that does n't mean that an official is tailing us all the time , " the source added . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
