Full Coverage : ICC World Cup 2015 But Miller responded with 138 not out , his highest one-day international score coming on his World Cup debut , while Duminy blasted 115 not out for his fourth century at this level . Miller smashed nine sixes and seven fours off 92 balls to better his previous highest score of 130 not out against the West Indies at Port Elizabeth last month . Duminy almost matched his fellow left-hander stroke for stroke , smashing three sixes and nine boundaries in his 100-ball knock . Their 256-run unbroken stand was a new one-day international record for the fifth wicket , beating the previous best of 226 which Eoin Morgan and Ravi Bopara shared against Ireland in Dublin two years ago . " I really enjoyed that , it 's been a long time since I last got three figures , " said Duminy whose side had been put into bat . " The pitch was definitely slower than we all predicted initially , but with wickets in hand , we could go after them. " Duminy praised Miller 's innings by saying : " David was exceptional -- he just muscled it about all over the park. " But it was not all rosy to start with for South Africa , as they lost four early wickets with the Zimbabwe bowlers using the new ball to perfection . Opener Quniton de Kock fell to paceman Tendai Chatara for seven while in the tenth over Amla was bowled through the gate by Tinashe Panyangara . Faf du Plessis fell for 24 to Elton Chigumbura before Zimbabwe grabbed the key wicket of de Villiers . De Villiers hit the six of the innings , off Chatara , but tried to play another similar shot off leg-spinner Tafadzwa Kamungozi he was brilliantly caught on the boundary by Craig Ervine . Realising he was going over the rope in his attempt to hold onto the catch , Ervine threw the ball back before leaping across the boundary to complete the dismissal on the field . But Zimbabwe failed to take any more wickets as Miller and Duminy smashed 146 runs in the last 10 overs , taking 30 alone in the 48th over bowled by Solomon Mire , with three sixes and as many boundaries . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
