World Cup spoof videos that 've gone viral The author has posted comments on this article Mihir Bhanage , TNN | Mar 2 , 2015 , 04.49PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 This ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 has been synonymous with surprises so far and there are definitely many more to come. On one hand as India is blasting its opponents and proving critics of its bowling attack wrong , there are some others who have been busy creating spoof videos revolving around the WC events. Here 's looking at some of these hilarious videos that are doing the rounds online . Pakistan 's response to Indian supporters Soon after the Mauka Mauka ad gave Indian fans a reason to cheer , youngsters from across the border struck back with an equally funny video. It has a Pakistan fan listing out the ODI records of the Pak team against India , to which the Indian fan has no answer . Thoka thoka Virat Kohli is watching Roadies with Anushka Sharma when two SA fans knock on the door. A frustrated Virat gets even angrier when he sees fans holding a box of crackers instead of the pizza he ordered. The poor SA fans get a verbal and physical bashing , much similar to what happened in the India vs SA match . Phuljhadi for the minnows Now , we all know how the UAE captain tried to catch the coin during the toss of their match against Zimbabwe. India 's dig at the minnows ahead of their match poked fun at their inexperience as an Indian fan hands a phuljhadi to a kid wearing the UAE jersey . Just a Stupid Cricket Fan Remember Naseeruddin Shah 's monologue from A Wednesday about the 'stupid common man ' ? Well , this one 's a frustrated Pakistani cricket fan 's version of the same after the team 's dismal performance so far in the tournament. It is one of the funniest ones doing the rounds . India 's response to South Africa Till this World Cup , India had never won a World Cup match against South Africa. The tables turned and history was made on Sunday. Interestingly , the Proteas have never lifted a World Cup ever. This video takes a dig at this very fact . Aamir provokes Virat This one came out after the century that Virat scored against Pakistan. An Aamir cartoon dressed in his PK avatar comes to the pitch and tells Virat something that angers him and ultimately results in the ton and win against Pakistan . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
