World Cup squad : Selectors to ponder over Jadeja , pace department The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Jan 6 , 2015 , 09.48AM IST The marquee event gets underway from February 14 and Ravindra Jadeja faces an uphill battle to recover in time , and may not be match fit even if he does. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : With most names being obvious choices , the five-member national selection committee , which will gather on Tuesday to select India 's squad of 15 for the World Cup 2015 , cricket 's biggest tournament , and a tri-series which precedes it Down Under , will have a few questions staring at them . The first matter of concern is a shoulder injury to allrounder Ravindra Jadeja , which is showing no signs of recovery. Jadeja has been an integral part of skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's armoury considering the package he brings to the table - left-arm spin , useful lower-order batting and electric fielding . There are reports that the BCCI may request the ICC to let it include Jadeja 's name on a provisional basis for the Cup , but the logic of fielding an undercooked player in an event of such magnitude involves high risk . The marquee event gets underway from Feb 14 , with India to launch the defence of their crown against Pakistan the next day. Jadeja faces an uphill battle to recover in time , and may not be match fit even if he does . In this scenario , there could be a debate about whether 2011 World Cup hero Yuvraj Singh , currently riding a wave of good form and sentiment , deserves a recall . The fact that he has hit three straight hundreds in the Ranji Trophy since being omitted from the probables ' list , does make a case for him even though he has n't been a part of the team since the World T20 final last year . However , chances are that the selectors may not look beyond the provisional list of 30 which does not have Yuvraj. The selectors are also likely to scratch their heads while deciding upon the composition and strength of the pace bowling department . Lack of options here means that Ishant Sharma , Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Mohammed Shami appear as natural choices , with any two between Mohit Sharma , Umesh Yadav , the genuinely quick Varun Aaron and Stuart Binny , who offers an all-round option , likely to make the cut . Gujarat 's Axar Patel , who provides more or less the same skill set as Jadeja , and has impressed in the opportunities he 's has got thus far , looks set to board the flight . By virtue of being tall , Axar is likely to generate good bounce on the hard Australian wickets too. Even though he is yet to play outside India , Axar fits the bill of a second spinner quite well . Selecting the batsmen should n't take much time , though the poor form of Shikhar Dhawan must be worrying the selectors. However , his golden run with the bat ( 390 runs @ 90.75 with two hundreds ) which helped India clinch the Champions Trophy in England in 2013 , may just help Dhawan cling to his spot . Dhawan included , India may even go in for four openers to Australia , with Rohit Sharma , Ajinkya Rahane and Murali Vijay , who may break in owing to his fabulous Test form in Australia , being the others . Rahane offers the option of a solid middle order bat as well. In fact , India are well served in that department with new Test skipper Virat Kohli , Suresh Raina , Dhoni and Ambati Rayudu rounding off the list . Offie R Ashwin is assured of the spinner 's slot , with only Patel expected to join him. It is unlikely that the selectors would risk rookie leggie Karn Sharma , who has shown the tendency to crack under pressure . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
