World Cup : Traditional rivals make it a weekend to look forward to The author has posted comments on this article Santosh Suri , TNN | Feb 14 , 2015 , 09.48AM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : The 11th World Cup begins with a blockbuster weekend on Saturday. Two of cricket 's greatest rivalries will be revisited on the first two days of the mega-event . There will be no love lost on Valentine 's Day , when old enemies Australia and England meet at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on Saturday. That will be followed by the much-anticipated , high-voltage clash between bitter rivals and neighbours , India and Pakistan , at the Adelaide Oval on Sunday . Such clashes bring in the fans , and as of now there is more excitement over these two games than even the final to be played March 29. The tickets for these matches were sold out long ago . There will be massive support for the home team in Melbourne but the Barmy Army will surely try to make its presence felt . And when almost a hundred thousand pack the MCG , the atmosphere will be electric with home fans chanting " Aussie , Aussie , Aussie , oi , oi , oi " and the PA system blaring out " We will , we will rock you " . Adding to the excitement , there are posters in the city challenging the English pluck , saying : " Missing , a pair of balls. If found , return to the English cricket team. " It 's pretty cocky. It is taken for granted that the Englishman do not have the courage to net the Australians in their den. Having won all three games against the Englishmen in the Tri-series , Australia are the overwhelming favourites and expected to brush aside England 's challenge without much fuss . George Bailey , the Australian captain against England in the absence of still recovering Michael Clarke , feels that with the kind of support and form , the home team holds all the aces . " I guess we enjoy some home comforts -enjoy some home support and embrace the opportunity that comes around having a World Cup at home. It 's an opportunity that you 're born into , it 's part luck. There have been some amazing Australian sides that have won the World Cup all over the world , some amazing Australian players who never had the opportunity to play at home. You can view that as pressure if you like. You can view it as a wonderful opportunity and honour. " When the England captain Eoin Morgan was asked how challenging it would be for his players to play Australia at the overflowing MCG , he said , " It 's certainly going to be a challenge. It 's obviously quite a big stadium. The majority of the guys have played here before. " Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
