World Cup warm-up match : Australia crush India by 106 runs The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 8 , 2015 , 04.57PM IST Australian and Indian players shake hands at the end of the ODI warm-up match in Adelaide on February 8 , 2015. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : India 's preparations for the cricket World Cup suffered a jolt as Australia thrashed the defending champions by 106 runs with Glenn Maxwell and David Warner striking blistering centuries in their first warm-up game here on Sunday . Electing to bat at the Adelaide Oval in a match where the two teams used their full 15-member squads , the hosts rode on Warner 's 104 and Maxwell 's 57-ball 122 to put up a mammoth 371 all out in 50 overs. Warner made his runs off 83 balls . The hard-hitting Maxwell smashed 11 boundaries and eight towering sixes. Warner found the fence 14 times and cleared it twice . India were then bowled out for 265 in 45.1 overs to give the hosts another morale-boosting win ahead of the quadrennial event , starting on Saturday . Ajinkya Rahane top-scored for the visiting side with a 52-ball 66 , while Shikhar Dhawan ( 59 ) and Ambati Rayudu ( 53 ) too made half centuries. But their efforts proved to be too less as the rest of the batsmen crumbled in the face of some aggressive bowling by the Aussies on a surface that looked pretty good for batting . Pacer Pat Cummins was the most successful bowler for Australia as he returned figures of three for 30 , while there were two wickets apiece for Mitchell Starc , Mitchell Johnson and Josh Hazlewood . Still in his comeback trail in international cricket following a month-long sabbatical due to a hamstring injury , 33-year-old pace spearhead Johnson had impressive figures of two for 26 . The star-studded Indian batting line-up that includes the likes of Virat Kohli , Rohit Sharma , Suresh Raina and skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni all failed to impress. So was the case with all-rounder Stuart Binny and Ravindra Jadeja who were also smashed by the Australian batsmen . It was not just the batsmen but the bowlers too performed badly , leaking too many runs courtesy some wayward bowling in the day-night game . Earlier , Warner and Maxwell smashed strokeful centuries to help Australia post a daunting total against a hapless Indian bowling attack. Maxwell 's stay in the middle came to an end when he retired out . Warner hit the aggressive button from the very start as the left-hander smashed the Indian bowlers to every corner of the park . Opening the Indian bowling , medium-pacer Stuart Binny ( 1/41 ) gave them the first breakthrough in Aaron Finch ( 20 ) but Warner was unstoppable at the other end . Injured Ishant Sharma 's replacement in the World Cup squad , Mohit Sharma ( 2/62 ) got Shane Watson ( 22 ) back in the pavilion and Steven Smith ( 1 ) was cleaned up by Umesh Yadav to stop the Australian surge . Warner though still carried on in the same vein only to picked up left-arm spinner Axar Patel ( 1-47 ) in the 27th over and Australia were already 185 for four . Maxwell then took over and stitched a 91-run sixth-wicket stand with Mitchell Marsh ( 21 ) . In between captain George Bailey also hit a useful 44 before being scalped by Mohammed Shami ( 3/83 ) , who bagged three wickets but was expensive in his 9.2 overs . But Maxwell it was who made all the eight Indian bowlers look ordinary , hitting 11 fours and eight sixes with a strike rate of 214.03 . Umesh proved to be India 's most economical bowler with figures of two for 52 in his nine overs . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
