World Cup warm-up match : India tame Afghanistan by 153 runs The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Feb 10 , 2015 , 05.14PM IST India finally registered a win after a long time. ( AFP Photo ) Page 1 of 4 ADELAIDE : Riding on Rohit Sharma 's strokeful 150 , an under-fire India finally registered a win after a long time as they crushed minnows Afghanistan by 153 runs in their second and final World Cup warm-up match on Tuesday . Electing to bat , India did not have the best of starts as they lost opener Shikhar Dhawan ( 4 ) and Virat Kohli ( 5 ) early but Rohit 's knock helped the Men in Blue post 364/5 . Chasing a mammoth score , Afghanistan , who are making their first 50-over World Cup appearance , played cautious cricket but could only manage to score 211/8 in 50 overs . The Indian bowling though fared a touch better with Mohit Sharma and Ravindra Jadeja sharing two wickets each but Mohammed Shami went wicketless . But the day belonged to Rohit , whose dominating innings laid the foundation of a strong batting show. He stitched a 158-run third wicket partnership with Suresh Raina ( 75 ) to help India gain ground . The left-handed Raina was unlucky to be run out after hitting 5 fours and 3 sixes in his 71-ball stay but Rohit carried on the good work with Ajinkya Rahane ( 88 not out ) . The duo stitched a 95-run fourth wicket partnership to deflate the Afghan hopes . Rohit was finally picked up by off-spinner Mohammad Nabi but not after he had hit 12 fours and 7 sixes in his 122-ball knock . Dhoni ( 10 ) once again failed to get going and looked completely out of sorts in his 20-ball stay at the wicket but Rahane and Ravindra Jadeja ( 11 not out ) made sure the score was challenging enough . Afghanistan started on a cautious note as opener Usman Ghani and former captain Nawroz Mangal managed a 63-run second wicket partnership but the strategy did not work and the asking-rate kept mounting . Asghar Stanikzai ( 20 ) and later wicketkeeper-batsman Afsar Zazai ( 24 not out ) also contributed but the target proved beyond reach for World Cup first-timers . India 's Umesh Yadav , Ravichandran Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja picked up a wicket each as all the bowlers kept their economy rates to under 4.5 albeit against a weak Afghan batting . On the batting front as well , the Indian players had a good outing before their crucial opening match against Pakistan . Rohit and Raina complimented each other in the course of their partnership as the duo hit the hapless Afghan spinners at will . Rohit hit 19 boundaries , including seven sixes in his punishing knock while Raina also tormented the rival bowlers with his aggressive strokeplay . Following Raina 's run out , Rahane walked to the crease and remained their till the end , scoring a confident 88 off just 61 balls , steering India past 350-run mark . Medium-pacer Mirwais Ashraf ( 0/29 ) was the only Afghan bowler who managed an under-five economy rate in his six wicketless overs while others bled runs . Hassan , Dawlat Zadran , Shapoor Zadran and Nabi picked up a wicket each . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
