READ ALSO : Virat Kohli : The outrageously talented fighter Millions of fans will hope that Dhoni 's men turn their fortunes around -- as they have done in the past -- when they clash with arch-rivals Pakistan in their World Cup opener in Adelaide on February 15 . India went into the 2003 World Cup after a bad tour of New Zealand and still reached the final. In 2011 , they won the tournament despite a lacklustre performance in South Africa . In Rohit Sharma , the only batsman with two 200s in one-day internationals , Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , Suresh Raina and the explosive Dhoni , India possess destructive batting firepower . But the frail bowling attack remains a worry , as was evident during the recent Test series where the hosts piled up 500-plus totals in each of the four matches . The same seam attack comprising Ishant Sharma , Mohammed Shami , Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Umesh Yadav , will feature in the World Cup alongside three frontline spinners in off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin and left-armers Ravindra Jadeja and young Akshar Patel . " Big totals are needed to win , " India 's first World Cup-winning captain Kapil Dev said. " We will be better off chasing targets rather than giving bowlers a target to defend. " India won the title under Dhoni in 2011 with an experienced squad that included seasoned campaigners like Sachin Tendulkar , Virender Sehwag , Gautam Gambhir , Yuvraj Singh Zaheer Khan and Harbhajan Singh . India won the World Cup title under Mahendra Singh Dhoni in 2011 with an experienced squad. ( TOI Photo ) The present side has just four players -- Dhoni , Kohli , Raina and Ashwin -- who were part of that winning combination , leaving the team short of World Cup experience . The nucleus of the squad is the same which helped India win the Champions Trophy one-day tournament in England in 2013 , but a power-packed batting display is needed to succeed again . Rohit Sharma , who followed his one-day 209 against Australia in 2013 with a scintillating world record score of 264 against the West Indies last year , is expected to fire at the top of the order despite a poor Test series . Kohli , recently appointed Test captain after Dhoni quit the longer format , is one of the finest batsmen in the modern game with 21 one-day centuries in the last five years , a testimony of his hunger for big scores . Dhoni , the peg around whom India 's fortunes will revolve , is a leader and batsman tailor-made for limited-overs cricket whose improvised big-hitting has won many a battle for India . A win over Pakistan in their opening match -- India have never lost to their arch-rivals in the World Cup -- will be the tonic Dhoni needs to revitalise the side . India World Cup factfile Factfile on India ahead of the 2015 World Cup to be played in Australia and New Zealand from February 14 to March 29 : Squad : Mahendra Singh Dhoni ( Capt. ) , Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Ajinkya Rahane , Virat Kohli , Suresh Raina , Ambati Rayudu , Ravichandran Ashwin , Ravindra Jadeja , Akshar Patel , Ishant Sharma , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav , Stuart Binny . Coach : Duncan Fletcher Fixtures -- Pool B : Feb 15 : Pakistan , Adelaide Feb 22 : South Africa , Melbourne Feb 28 : United Arab Emirates , Perth Mar 6 : West Indies , Perth Mar 10 : Ireland , Hamilton Mar 14 : Zimbabwe , Auckland World Cup record : 1975 : First round 1979 : First round 1983 : Champions 1987 : Semi-finals 1992 : First round 1996 : Semi-finals 1999 : Super Sixes 2003 : Runners-up 2007 : First round 2011 : Champions Key player : Virat Kohli - The brash , arrogant youngster has matured into one of the most devastating batsmen in modern cricket and a key component of India 's World Cup campaign . The 26-year-old smashed four centuries in the Border-Gavaskar Test series in Australia , where he also scored his first Test century on the previous visit in 2011 . In his outstanding 150-match one-day career , Kohli has already struck 21 hundreds and 33 half-centuries. One of his best one-day knocks was played in Adelaide when he hammered an astonishing 133 not out off 86 balls against Sri Lanka to help India chase down 321 in under 40 overs . Now the Test captain after Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's retirement from the longer format , Kohli will plot India 's strategy as Dhoni 's deputy at the World Cup . Follow TOI Sports on Twitter > > > @ TOISportsNews Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
