Young turks soak in Rahul Dravid 's wisdom The author has posted comments on this article Sumit Mukherjee , TNN | Jul 8 , 2014 , 11.18AM IST Of Dravid 's six centuries in England , three had come on India 's last tour when Dhoni and Co. were whitewashed 4-0. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 NOTTINGHAM : It has been a while since Team India began their rebuilding exercise. The last remains of the grand 'edifice ' came crumbling down at the Wankhede Stadium in November last year when the iconic Sachin Tendulkar walked into the sunset , leaving the floor to a host of youngsters , who were straining at the leash . As Team India approach a rare five-Test series against England , beginning here on Wednesday , questions would be asked of frisky youngsters who must translate their promise into performance. In order to keep the sheep from straying , the BCCI has hired the services of a shepherd , who must now show them the way . Former captain Rahul Dravid , who has been tasked with guiding India 's current crop of talented batsmen , was a busy man in the nets on Monday. Apart from keeping a keen eye on the batsmen in the two adjacent nets , Dravid was also seen interacting at length with the pacers , with the likes of Ishant Sharma , Mohammad Shami and Bhuvneshwar Kumar all benefitting from his words of wisdom . Asked about Dravid 's role , Virat Kohli said : " We 've spoken about the positives we could take out of it. A guy who played brilliantly in that series ( Dravid ) , is mentoring us right now , speaking about his experiences. That 's a big plus. " Kohli pointed out that Dravid , despite being a fine technician , does not often talk technique with young players . " He talks about his experiences in real situations , about what lengths to bowl , what kind of approach we need on certain types of pitches and how to adapt to the conditions. All this makes us mentally prepared for the battle ahead , " added Kohli , about Dravid , whose 13 Tests in England have fetched him 1376 runs @ 68.80 runs per innings. Of his six centuries in England , three had come on India 's last tour when Dhoni and Co. were whitewashed 4-0 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
