Australian Pace Ace Brett Lee Set to Take Bollywood by Storm Australian Pace Ace Brett Lee Set to Take Bollywood by Storm Brett Lee is playing the lead in a movie titled 'UnIndian ' , a 4.5 million dollar project being shot under the recently established Australia India Film Fund ( AIFF ) . Last updated on Sunday , 16 November , 2014 12 : 57 IST Total Shares Brett Lee on the sets of 'UnIndian ' with Tannishtha Chatterjee . © NDTV Brett Lee 's popularity in India is set to soar up further. The Australian fast bowling legend is acting in a Bollywood movie titled 'UnIndian ' , a romantic-comedy being filmed in Sydney. Lee is one of the most loved Aussie cricketers in the sub-continent and has featured in commercials and in a singles album with Asha Bhosle . Lee , 38 , who retired from international cricket in 2012 , has a major following on Twitter among Indians and his lead role in the USD 4.5 million movie is bound to win him more admirers here . Lee , undoubtedly , is excited by this opportunity , " Someone said , it 's like going from the nets to the sets. Now , I am not sure... it sounds a bit corny to me. Look it has been a great journey this far , I have really enjoyed it. I have enjoyed the challenges , enjoyed the early morning starts. " Lee plays Will , a school teacher , who has been brought up in the country and introduces migrants to the Australian culture. He falls in love with an Indian divorced career woman played by Tannishtha Chaterjee . Producer Anupam Sharma on the sets of 'UnIndian' © NDTV Lee , who snared 718 international wickets in a career spanning 13 years , relates to his character on-screen , " When I first read the script , I saw many things I do believe in. Will and me are pretty similar I think " . 'UnIndian ' is the first feature film of the recently established Australia India Film Fund ( AIFF ) . It is also the first movie to be made by an Indian origin director and producer in Australia. It is being pitched as Australia 's own 'Big Fat Greek Wedding ' and 'Bend it like Beckham' . " It is a unique story - it looks at all the tags we Indians living around the world give each other - less Indian , more Indian , South Indian , UnIndian...Aussie Indian so its all about that. But the heart of it is about love of Indians towards their music , their colour , their relationships , their marriages and their families. The movie is set in the modern Australia of 2015 " , says director Anupam Sharma . Will Lee be seen dancing on-screen ? " Yes I have done a few dancing scenes already... there is a part where I am dreaming about this " sundar ladki " ( pretty girl ) and we go to this dance sequence " he says . Story first published on : Saturday , 15 November 2014 21 : 29 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
