Yuvraj is not someone who will melt like snow , says Yograj The author has posted comments on this article PTI | Jan 7 , 2015 , 06.19PM IST Yograj Singh said that his son always remains in high spirits no matter how difficult the situation he may be facing. ( TOI Photo ) Page 1 of 4 CHANDIGARH : His son and hero of the 2011 cricket World Cup may have been ignored for the next month 's mega event , but cricketer-turned-actor Yograj Singh on Wednesday said the development has not affected Yuvraj Singh 's spirits as he is a tough guy who does not melt like snow and exuded confidence that he will bounce back soon . " Yuvraj is not somebody who melts like snow , I have not raised him that way. He is a tough guy , who is known to weather every storm that comes his way. What if his caravan has left him behind , he too will race ahead and bounce back soon , " the former Test cricketer said on Wednesday . Yograj Singh said that his son always remains in high spirits no matter how difficult the situation he may be facing . " Oh no worries , dad , I will come to Chandigarh and we will practice soon , this was Yuvraj 's message to me today , " Yograj said . Yuvraj Singh was not included in India 's 15-member squad for the World Cup to be held in Australia and New Zealand from next month . Yograj recalled that how his cricketing career had been cut short " because of someone who did not wish to see me progress " . When asked if he feels that history was repeating itself now that Yuvraj too had been ignored and his recent and past contributions overlooked , Yograj said , " After all , there is justice in God 's court. Even mighty rulers who had great false pride one day had to bite the dust " . When asked what would be his advice to Yuvraj at this stage will be , Yograj said , " I have taught my children to accept everything with grace and be prepared to face all kinds of situations. " " Since I was a 5-year-old , my father taught me to be fearless and take on all adversities one faces in life. And these are the traits I passed on to Yuvraj Singh as well and he too is brave and fearless , " he said . He exuded confidence that one day Yuvraj Singh will become the captain of the Indian cricket team . " He will play for seven more years. He is very determined. I know what is happening ( why he is being ignored and not selected in team ) and for a long time , but this is not the platform ( through media ) where I will discuss these things , " he said . " I promise you that when my son retires , I will reveal it all ( the injustices meted out to him ) , " he said . To a question , he said that players like Yuvraj , Sachin Tendulkar , Rahul Dravid and Virender Sehwag are of that calibre who do not need the selection certificate . " For 15 years , he ( Yuvraj ) has given his blood and sweat to the Indian team , he was battling cancer , yet he fought hard and brought the ( 2011 ) World Cup back to India after a long gap. He fought with the ailment successfully... Our job is to play cricket , do our best and leave rest to God , " he further said . Yograj said that it was his dream to see Yuvraj as a cricketer . " He wanted to become a tennis player , but I was keen to make him a cricketer and I must say this with pride that he has not let me down , " he added . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
