Zimbabwe cricket not heading in right direction : Taylor The author has posted comments on this article AP | Mar 17 , 2015 , 10.41PM IST Share on Linkedin Page 1 of 4 HARARE ( Zimbabwe ) : Zimbabwe batsman Brendan Taylor made the decision last year to give up internationals because the team was " not heading in the right direction , " he said on Tuesday . Taylor decided on last year 's tour of Bangladesh to quit , well before the Cricket World Cup , because the team was struggling , and he had to think about his family 's financial stability , he said . Zimbabwe lost all three Tests and all five one-day internationals on that tour in November and December , a particularly embarrassing result against its closest rival at the bottom of the international rankings . " To be honest with you , my decision was made before the World Cup , when we were in Bangladesh , " Taylor said. " For once , I struggled to enjoy my cricket. I felt we were not heading in the right direction as a team , and my main outcome of that was to make a decision that would benefit my kids and entire family. " Taylor has signed a three-year contract to play for Nottinghamshire in English county cricket . But the former captain 's exit from the national team at the age of 29 , and after two centuries at the ongoing World Cup , once again drew attention to Zimbabwe cricket 's problem of retaining talent . Many of Zimbabwe 's best players have chosen contracts in England and elsewhere over playing for their country. It 's unlikely that Taylor will play for the national team again , certainly not during his contract at Nottinghamshire . Taylor was speaking at a news conference after returning from the World Cup in Australia and New Zealand , where Zimbabwe was eliminated in the pool stage despite his back-to-back hundreds against Ireland and defending champion India . Zimbabwe won just one of its six games , against non-Test nation United Arab Emirates. The Zimbabweans lost to another non-Test nation , Ireland . Taylor has played 23 Tests and 167 ODIs. He made his international debut aged 18 . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
