Indian women achieve historic win against England The author has posted comments on this article Gaurav Gupta , TNN | Aug 17 , 2014 , 11.48AM IST Sadly , the Indian viewers were deprived of watching the creditable triumph , since no channel chose to telecast the game. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 MUMBAI : At a time when the much-hyped Indian men 's team is getting battered by England , the Indian women have shown how the Poms can be tamed in their own den . Playing a Test after eight long years , Mithali Raj & Co did the unthinkable , stunning the hosts by six wickets in a one-off Test at Wormsley . Interestingly , the last time Indian women won a Test was also against England and then too it was the captain-coach combination of Mithali and Sudha Shah that plotted the victory . With the attention firmly fixed on the Indian men 's team , this side arrived in England almost unnoticed , with just a handful of reporters attending their departure presser . At Wormsley , India , fielded eight Test debutants and started Day One with a bang , skittling out England for 92 , with seamer Niranjana Nagaraja taking 4-19 . In reply , the visitors could n't fare much better and were shot out for 114 as pacer Jenny Gunn took 5-19. Gunn then hit an unbeaten 62 as England scored 202 in their second dig . This time , veteran seamer Jhulan Goswami did the star turn , taking 4-48 . Chasing 181 for a win , India started solidly with openers Thirush Kamini ( 28 ) and Smriti Mandhana ( 51 ) adding 76 , before they slipped to 115 for four. Putting her experience to good use , skipper Raj then hit an unbeaten 50 , adding 68 with Shikha Pandey ( 28 not out ) to take the team home . Sadly , the Indian viewers were deprived of watching the creditable triumph , since no channel chose to telecast the game . " I am happy that I have played one more Test before hanging my boots , " skipper Mithali said after the game. She hoped that the win would help the players get a central contract with the BCCI. Having scripted history , the girls celebrated by going for shopping before a team dinner in the evening. Speaking to TOI from Wormsley , coach Sudha Shah said : " The girls are feeling on top of the world. This is a great victory for Indian cricket , and particularly for women 's cricket. " Shah stressed on self-belief as none of the players were overawed . " Despite many of them making their Test debut , they were n't nervous. They wanted to win badly. Ultimately , it was a team effort. " Not many gave India a chance against World Champions England , who the women 's ' Ashes ' in Australia recently. " It helped that we were the underdogs ! That took the pressure off us , " felt Shah . The coach then summed up the road ahead for Indian women 's cricket beautifully. " There are many talented women cricketers in our country. All they need is self-belief and opportunity to play more matches , " she said . Former India skipper Diana Eduljee stressed that this win showed that it was time BCCI made the Indian women 's team play more Tests. " This is a big eye-opener for the BCCI and I hope they pay heed to it. Women 's cricket needs more publicity . I mean , compared to them , look at how the men are playing in England ! I request the BCCI to not treat women cricketers as second class cricketers. They de serve to play more Tests and they must be encouraged to do so. Every tour should have at least one Test. The BCCI should look to build on this win and give expo sure to the India Women 's U-19 team and the India ' A ' side too . I 've heard that the BCCI is going to introduce two-day cricket at the domestic level and that 's a good thing , " Eduljee said . Brief scores : England 92 & 202 lost to India 114 & 183-4 ( S Mandhana 51 , M Raj 50 no ) by 6 wkts . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
