Smriti Mandhana logs Test win on debut in UK The author has posted comments on this article Kumar Swamy , TNN | Aug 17 , 2014 , 12.13PM IST Smriti , just 18 years and 29 days of age , was one of the eight debutants in the Indian team. ( Getty Images ) Page 1 of 4 PUNE : Shrinivas Mandhana had a dream. The 53-year-old former district level cricketer from Sangli wanted to fulfil his personal ambition of playing for India through one of his children . That dream became a reality this week , and how ! Mandhana 's daughter Smriti , making her debut in the longer version of the game , hit a steady 51 to lay the foundation for the Indian women 's victory over England at the picturesque Sir Paul Getty ground in Wormsley , England , on Saturday . " From early on I wanted one of my children to play for India because I could n't , " Mandhana said from Sangli after captain Mithali Raj ( 50 no ) and Shikha Pandey ( 28 ) completed the formalities by knocking off the remaining 62 required in the one-off Test . " My son ( Shravan ) tried hard but then told me that he would n't be able to continue with the game for long and took up a job. But my daughter got selected for India. " Indian women were playing a Test match after a gap of eight years and it was only their second ever triumph over England . Smriti , just 18 years and 29 days of age and a Class 12 student in Chintaman College in Sangli , was one of the eight debutants in the Indian team . " For a teenager playing in her first match to score 22 ( in the first innings ) and a fifty is remarkable , " said Shravan , who is now employed in a leading private bank . But the left-handed Smriti was fulfilling a dream of her own too. Mandhana began to coach her in earnestness when she turned nine. He still bowls to her in the nets , but given his age , the Mandhanas have hired Anant Tambvekar , a local cricketer and who has played in the Maharashtra Premier League , for specialised coaching . " She practises daily for eight hours and Anant works on her overall game including fielding and fitness , " Mandhana says . While Mandhana takes care of Smriti 's cricket programme , mother Smita is incharge of her diet , clothing and other organisation aspects . Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device . Recent Messages ( )
