Revamped WACA Media Centre Opened 18 February 2015 The Western Australian Cricket Association today celebrated the official opening of its new Media Centre , with Minister for Sport and Recreation the Hon Mia Davies MLA declaring the facilities ready for use ahead of the ICC Cricket World Cup ’ s venture west . Representatives from the State Government , Department of Sport and Recreation , WACA and the media were on hand to launch the $ 2.2-million world-class facility , which was produced to house the expected influx of more than 100 media representatives from around the world . The new media facilities , jointly funded by the State Government and the WACA , were a requirement by the ICC in order for the WACA Ground to host its three Cricket World Cup matches , which begin next Saturday 28 February 2015 as reigning champion India takes on the United Arab Emirates . Work on the area commenced 1 September 2014 and continued throughout the WACA Ground ’ s 2014-15 fixtures . The Media Centre runs from Level 4 of the southern Lillee Marsh Stand – print area : 96 international written press seats ; 40 open-air seats ; four scorers positions – to the broadcast media area of Level 5 , which has been built to cater for five radio and two TV broadcasters , with both areas including new kitchenette and breakout spaces . The new rooms have been designed to allow flexibility for use as media space or corporate facilities and have been fitted out with appropriate audio-visual systems to support usage on game days and other functions during off-peak times. Each work station has access to double electrical , data and telephone outlets , while a number of flat-panel TVs capable of displaying stadium-feed or public broadcasts installed throughout to allow viewing from all seating positions . A designated Interview Room has been constructed within the Level 4 facility , with tielines feeding audio to broadcasters on the above level . The facilities have been constructed to operate in Match Mode/ICC Cricket World Cup Mode and Legacy Mode , to ensure they do not sit idle during non-peak times , with WA Special Olympics and Sports Education Development Program utilising the area in Legacy Mode . WACA CEO Ms Christina Matthews said : " It ’ s been a bit of a journey getting to this point and the catalyst was the World Cup . " We couldn ’ t have had World Cup matches at this ground without the upgrade to the media centre and I thank the State Government and the Department of Sport and Recreation for everything they did in making sure the funding was available to undertake this project . " We ’ ve trialled the facilities through the regular summer and the feedback we ’ ve had has been fantastic . " One of the things we ’ re looking at here at the WACA is how to make our facilities useable all year round . " We have about 10 or 11 games a year that are packed to the rafters and the rest , where we ’ ve got Shield matches and Community matches and we ’ ve opened up these facilities to a few community groups to ensure they are utilised year-round . " The WA Special Olympics will have their permanent office in one of the radio boxes on Level 5 and our Education Partner , the Sports Education Development Program , will also have their offices upstairs. ” The Minister for Sport and Recreation , the Hon Mia Davies MLA said : " It is exciting ahead of the ICC Cricket World Cup to officially open this magnificent new facility . " It is an important facility , because it will be showcasing not just cricket , but Western Australia , our beautiful state and our city . " Perth is a transformed city , with Elizabeth Quay underway , we ’ ve sunk the Northbridge Rail and there ’ s a new world-class stadium underway . " The people who are most likely to bring these developments to the rest of the world are journalists and probably our sports journalists , in particular . " Their words on radio , TV , newspapers and ball-by-ball blogs are vital to our state and our capital city . " The reason for that is that it ’ s not just about what ’ s happening on the pitch , it ’ s about what the journalists and broadcasters are doing in their off-time and they ’ re talking about that on air ; where they ’ ve been , our beautiful skyline , the wonderful hospitality of Western Australians . " It is appropriate that the WA Cricket Association redevelop its media centre to cater for media who follow the international cricket , from venue to venue , country to country , and report on one of the biggest global sports . " We are very hopeful that Western Australia as a whole will benefit from these facilities , as we can ’ t measure the benefit of our sports commentators relay not just the performances on the pitch , but how Perth and Western Australia are going through a once-in-a-lifetime revitalisation. ” John Townsend , WA Cricket Media Guild president and chief cricket writer for The West Australian , said : " The view of the Ground and the view of the scoreboard is world class . " In fact , I think the press box is probably closer to the action than any cricket ground in the world now , which places it among the best in the world . " On behalf of the media , we ’ re delighted with the way that it ’ s turned out and that the action has been taken by the State Government, " I thank the Hon Mia Davies , Ron Alexander at the Department of Sport and Recreation and , of course , to the WACA . " On behalf of the media , thank you very much ; I ’ m not sure it will make us write better and talk better , but we ’ ll certainly feel better about covering it and , if that ’ s the case , I think you may well see some better stories. ”
