Text Size Chopra said he was satisfied and happy with how his career turned out. © Getty Aakash Chopra , the former India opener , announced his retirement from all forms of cricket on Friday. Chopra , now a succesful commentator , played his last competitive match for Himachal Pradesh against Punjab during the 2013/14 Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy . " I have always been very proud of my fielding , but I dropped a couple of catches in the slips in what turned out to be my last first-class game , " the 37-year-old Chopra told ESPNCricinfo. " I was the captain of the side and had to take myself off , from that position. That 's when I felt it 's not right , perhaps the time has come. If I am not able to take catches in slips , then perhaps I am a bit of a liability. " BCCI secretary Sanjay Patel paid tribute to the batsman-turned-commentator by saying he " was one of the best opening batsmen produced by the country " . " He had a long and illustrious first - class career , and was part of Delhi and Rajasthan teams that won the Ranji Trophy. He was a key member of the Indian team that created history in 2003-04 by winning a Test series in Pakistan . " On behalf of the BCCI , I would like to congratulate him on a memorable innings and wish him all the best for his future , " Patel said in a BCCI statement . Chopra 's Test career did n't quite witness the same success as his first-class run. He scored over 10,000 runs and 29 centuries over 15 seasons for Delhi , Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh , but only managed ten Test matches for India from 2003 to 2004 as Virender Sehwag 's opening partner. He debuted in a two-Test series against New Zealand at home and was part of the Indian team for the tours of Australia and Pakistan . " I should have achieved more , that is the feeling that will always linger. At the same time , I do n't think I was supremely talented , " he said. " Some of my peers were far more talented and I was the fortunate one who ended up playing for the country. I would always remain the 245th player to represent India in Test match cricket. " Chopra made his Ranji Trophy debut in the 1997/98 season and scored a century. He went on to score 5,075 runs over 78 matches. Chopra jumped ships to Rajasthan in 2009 and helped the team to back-to-back Ranji Trophy triumphs in 2009/10 and 2010/11 . " A century on debut for Delhi was very special because when I was growing up playing for Delhi was the be all and end all , " he said. " Winning the Ranji Trophy is something to be very proud of. It happens over 5-6 months with some known and some lesser-known players and it does n't come easy. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies )
