How to Register If you are interested in registering for the Compounding World Congress 2015 , please follow the link HERE and fill in the registration form on page 4 of the brochure and send it to : Kat Langner , Conference Organiser Tel : + 44 ( 0 ) 117 314 8111 ; Fax : + 44 ( 0 ) 117 311 1534 ; Email : kl @ amiplastics.com Please note group discounts may be available for companies wishing to register two or more delegates . If you are interested in registering for the Green Polymer Chemistry 2015 , please follow the link HERE and fill in the registration form on page 4 of the brochure and send it to : Kat Langner , Conference Organiser Tel : + 44 ( 0 ) 117 314 8111 ; Fax : + 44 ( 0 ) 117 311 1534 ; Email : kl @ amiplastics.com Please note group discounts are available for companies wishing to register two or more delegates If you are interested in registering for the Green Polymer Chemistry 2015 , please follow the link HERE and fill in the registration form on page 4 of the brochure and send it to : Kat Langner , Conference Organiser Tel : + 44 ( 0 ) 117 314 8111 ; Fax : + 44 ( 0 ) 117 311 1534 ; Email : kl @ amiplastics.com Please note group discounts are available for companies wishing to register two or more delegates Sponsorship AMI events are more than just arenas for listening and networking. They also represent highly-targeted opportunities to enhance your image and to promote your products and services to an international audience . Make a lasting impact on AMI ´ s senior management audiences and become an official sponsor at Compounding World Congress 2015 ! Download the guide to all of the sponsorship opportunities WHAT SPONSORING AN AMI EVENT WILL DO FOR YOU... Sponsorship will enable you to raise the profile of your company. Through sponsorship , you can position yourself as the market leader in the industry . Your company will benefit from AMI ’ s extensive marketing exposure. AMI not only promote the events to our extensive databases via direct mail , but also targets new customers through advertisements in our on-line magazines. In addition to this , hard copy brochures will be mailed to thousands of potential delegates across the globe . You will increase awareness of your company ’ s products and services among key industry players and prospective clients . Sponsoring will allow you to network with your future customers to expand your business opportunities. Our technical and high value conferences attract senior level delegates from all over the world , and attract participants covering all aspects of the supply chain . Don ’ t miss out on this opportunity to further your business potential – sponsor an AMI Event today ! For further information please contact Miss Kat Langner on : Email : kl @ amiplastics.com Tel : + 44 ( 0 ) 117 314 8111 . Please note that refunds will not be given on sponsorship packages . Table Top Exhibition - Only 5 places left ! Running in conjunction with the conference , the table top exhibition is an integral part of the event , providing the ideal setting to promote your company and its products to an international audience. The exhibition package includes one exhibition space ( in the room where registration , all coffee breaks , and the cocktail reception are held ) and 1 delegate place. A profile of your company will be included in the official conference proceedings that are distributed to all attending delegates and sold after the conference to interested parties. Companies already signed up for the table top exhibition include : 3M / ESK · Automatik Plastics Machinery · Brabender · Buss · C.H. Erbsl ö h · Colloids · DuPont · Feddem · Gala · George H. Luh · Glunz · Grolman · HPF / Quarzwerke · ICMA San Giorgio · IMCD · Imerys Graphite & Carbon · JSW Japan Steel Works · Mayr · Nordson BKG · PolyAd Services · Polycompound · Polytechs · Reduction Engineering · Total Cray Valley · Velox Book now and do n't miss out ! ( Click link below to open the brochure , table top booking form is on page 4 ) For further information , please contact Miss Kat Langner , Conference Organiser Email : kl @ amiplastics.com Tel : + 44 ( 0 ) 117 314 8111 How can I register ? There are 3 ways you can register for our event : 1 ) By fax : Simply fill in the registration form with your details and fax it back to + 44 ( 0 ) 117 314 8111. 2 ) By post : Simply fill in the registration form with your details and send it to : Applied Market Information Ltd. , 6 Pritchard Street , Bristol , BS2 8RH , United Kingdom 3 ) By email : send your details to kl @ amiplastics.com Can I register online ? Online registration is not yet available. Please refer to the question “ How can I register ? ” to see what methods are available to you . What does the registration fee include ? The registration fee includes attendance at all conference sessions , the Welcome Cocktail Reception , lunch and refreshment breaks on both days and a set of conference proceedings . Do I need to book my accommodation directly ? Yes , delegates are responsible for booking their own accommodation. A limited number of discounted rooms have been reserved for attendees. Please contact Ms. Kallukalathil-Suimri of the Maritim Hotel , Cologne and be sure to mention " AMI 's Compounding World Congress 2015 " to receive the special room rate of € 154.50 for a single room or € 192.50 for a double room including breakfast and Wi-Fi. Tel : + 49 ( 0 ) 221 2027 849 Fax : + 49 ( 0 ) 221 2027 826/843 Email : reservierung.kol @ maritim.de How can I pay ? 1 ) You can arrange a bank transfer quoting Applied Market Information Ltd. Compounding World Congress 2015 to : Commerzbank , Filiale D ü sseldorf , Breite Stra ß e 25 , 40213 D ü sseldorf , Germany. Account number : 1024710 Bank No. 300 400 00 IBAN DE93 3004 0000 0102 4710 00 SWIFT- COBADEFFXXX 2 ) You can pay by credit card : Visa/Mastercard/Eurocard/JCB Can I pay with AMEX card ? We do accept American express payment if no other method of payment is available to you. Please be aware that the payment will be processed in sterling and that the AMEX commission will be based on the sterling exchange rate of the day we process your credit card. In addition because of the much higher costs involved in accepting payments by AMEX we reserve the right to make an additional 2 % charge . Do I get a refund if I cancel my participation ? We will give you a full refund , less an administrative charge of € 200 if we receive your cancellation prior to 20th March 2015. Thereafter we regret that no refunds can be made. Please note that no refunds may be given on table top bookings , sponsorship packages or dinner places . Can my colleague replace me if I can not attend the conference ? Yes , delegates may be substituted at any time , with no charge Can I get a group discount ? If your company is planning to send 2 delegates or more , you are entitled to a group discount. Please contact Miss Kat Langner at Tel : + 44 117 314 8111 or Email : kl @ amiplastics.com If I can not attend , can I obtain the presentations given at the event ? Yes , the conference proceedings are available for sale after each event. Simply place your order via fax ( + 44 117 311 1534 ) or email mjw @ amiplastics.com. We will send a pro forma invoice before dispatching the papers . What if I can not attend an AMI event because of bad weather , industrial action , sickness or bereavement ? Unfortunately AMI can not take responsibility for such problems. We recommend that you ensure that your travel plans leave you enough spare time to cope with weather delays or industrial action and that your travel insurance policy will recompense you for any financial loss that you suffer as a result of being unable to travel for other reasons. Remember that if you can not attend an event then you can always send a colleague in your place at no charge . Do I need a visa to enter a country where AMI is holding an event ? It is entirely possible that you may need a valid visa to enter a country where AMI is holding an event. This is especially the case for individuals attending our events and holding non-European passports. We recommend that at the time of booking you check the visa requirements with the embassy of the host country in your home location. We are unable to give refunds to delegates who can not attend conferences because they fail the visa requirements of the country concerned . Does the conference programme ever change ? AMI always does its utmost to avoid changes in advertised conference programs. However it is a fact of life that from time to time amendments have to be made as a result of changes to speakers ’ circumstances or corporate change. Remember that you can always check with our conference staff on the latest status any conference programme . Can I give a paper at an AMI Conference ? Naturally AMI welcomes paper offers for presentation at our conferences provided such papers meet our quality and relevance requirements. Within each conference heading you will find a section on ‘ Call for Papers ’ , which tells you what to do if you want to present a paper at a specific conference . I would like to suggest a new conference . We would love to hear from you. Contact our Conference Organiser , Miss Kat Langner at Tel : : + 44 ( 0 ) 117 314 8111 or Email : kl @ amiplastics.com I have another question that has not been answered . Please email it to our Conference Organiser , Kat Langner who will do her best to answer it : kl @ amiplastics.com Accommodation Delegates are responsible for arranging their own hotel accommodation whilst attending the conference. However , AMI have reserved a limited number of rooms for delegates at the Maritim Hotel , at the rate of € 154.50 for a single and of € 192.50 for a double room including breakfast and Wi-Fi. To make a reservation , please contact the Reservations Department on Tel : + 49 ( 0 ) 221 202 7849 Fax : + 49 ( 0 ) 221 2027 826/843 or Email : reservierung.kol @ maritim.de
