WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 25TH , 2015 CLIFTON COUNTY CRICKET CLUB , TE AWANGA , HAWKE ’ S BAY Congratulations to the Clifton County Cricket Club team ! Winners of the Legends of Cricket Art Deco Match . Final score – The World Invitational XI : 172/7 , The Clifton County Cricket Club Invitational XI : 172/5 – 3 overs to spare . Thank you to everyone who came out and enjoyed a fantastic day . THE LEGENDS OF CRICKET ART DECO MATCH WILL BE A TWENTY-TWENTY GAME OF GENTLE SPECTATOR CRICKET . Picture this : some of the biggest names in cricketing history ; a pitch in the middle of lush Hawke ’ s Bay farmland surrounded by rolling hillside , ocean views and vineyards. Could life get any better ? So far we have secured Jeff Thomson , Adam Hollioake , Ian Smith , Dion Nash , Craig Harris , Shane Thomson , Mark Greatbatch , Evan Gray and Erv McSweeney as well as Nicola Browne from the Black Ferns. In addition Marc Ellis will have a knock as will actor Shane Cortese . And just announced – New Zealand cricketing icon Martin Crowe will be at Clifton County Cricket Club as well . We ’ re taking cricket back to basics ; to before it became all flashy. The legends of Cricket Match is about good , honest cricket . Join us as some of the world ’ s most famous cricketers dust off their whites to bring you a cricket match to remember . THE LOCATION : CLIFTON COUNTY CRICKET CLUB Originally started in 1985 , the Clifton Cricket Club was the mecca for the cricket-mad men folk of Hawke ’ s Bay. The moustaches were worn long and the tales were told tall. After a hiatus , the phoenix has risen again . This is a piece of lush Hawke ’ s Bay turf surrounded by undulating hillside and with views out to the glistening South Pacific , this is the stuff cricket lovers can only dream of . ON THE DAY Online ticket sales are now closed however there will be General Admission door sales available from 12pm . There will be a raft of ways in which to enjoy the day. Entry to the ground is limited so make sure you reserve your spot . There are only a few corporate seats left – if you would like to purchase a pair of tickets at $ 350 please visit the website or contact events @ hawkesbaytourism.co.nz directly. These are limited . Corporate entertaining options including a superb three-course lunch created by Orton Tailored Cuisine. Premium Hawke ’ s Bay wines will be served from Clearview , Sileni Estates , Elephant Hill , Te Awanga Estate and Trinity Hill. Official players in the T20 match will also be dining in the Pavillion so you can get very up close and personal with your sporting heroes. Tickets are $ 175 a head and tables of 10 will sell for $ 1750 . General admission to the match will be free for any holder of an official ticket to the Cricket World Cup 2015 games in Napier . General admission fees ; Adults $ 10 , children a gold coin donation . Additional donations can be made on the day and will go to the New Zealand Department of Conservation initiatives within Clifton County Cricket Club , aimed at creating habitat and eco-systems to reintroduce native flora and fauna . TRANSPORT There will be transport to and from Napier , Hastings and Havelock North i SITES. Please reserve your spots on the buses as spaces are limited. You can do this when you reserve your ticket . If you are taking a car – you can not leave it overnight . FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT HAWKE 'S BAY TOURISM ON events @ hawkesbaytourism.co.nz OR 027 222 4320
