Graphs That 's it from this match. Even though the series is lost , Sri Lanka will play for pride in the last game and look to end the tour on a high. Join us for that on Thursday. Until then , take care and Bye ! Anderson : " I think I am sticking to a plan in the last couple of matches and it worked today. It was nice to get through 10 overs. I am feeling reasonably good at the moment. Ross ( Taylor ) and Kane ( Williamson ) set it up for us. The surface has been good and Dunedin has been a nice place to play cricket. " Corey Anderson is the Man of the Match for his figures of 4/52 and scoring 40 off 28 balls . Thirimanne : " Our concern is the death bowling. We were good in the first 30-35 overs , but we leaked runs at the end. We need to come out of this. Our fast bowlers do not have much experience , these are learning curves for the younger bowlers. Sangakkara has played well throughout the series , but the rest of us have to be more consistent. We need to correct these mistakes before the World Cup. " McCullum : " We were very clinical with the bat , got the important partnerships and then the bowlers were brilliant. We have a couple of good finishers in the lower-order , if we can set them up from the start , we will always get good scores. All three ( Taylor , Anderson and Mills ) of them will be happy with their days work. Corey ( Anderson ) was excellent with the ball , he was pivotal today. Rosco ( Taylor ) needed that one knock before the World Cup and today he got that. We have some work to do before the big tournament. " Sri Lanka have a lot to ponder about. The bowlers are giving away plenty of runs , it is the second successive time that they have conceded 300 plus to the New Zealand batsmen. They will be hoping that their strike bowler , Lasith Malinga will be fit for the World Cup as they need someone to lead this inexperienced bowling attack. The batting looks weak and there is too much dependency on the big three , they need the rest of the batters to step up and contribute. Stay tuned for the presentation.. . Anderson was the star with the ball. The all-rounder picked up 4 wickets and gave New Zealand a breakthrough whenever they needed one. He was well backed up by the rest of them. Vettori in particular was excellent in his variations and kept one end tight. The wily left-arm spinner just conceded 22 runs in his 8 overs. The fielding too was brilliant from the hosts as they effected three run-outs. All in all it was an all-round performance . Another dominating performance from New Zealand. They have won the series 4-1 , with a game in hand. The players congratulate each other and shake hands with the two batsmen. Sri Lanka got off to a steady start with Dilshan and Thirimanne seeing off the new ball , but both batters went in quick succession. Mahela , survived a few close calls before lobbing a catch straight to mid-off. Sangakkara kept fighting from one end even as his partners came and went. The veteran scored a majestic fifty , 93rd in ODIs and would have got a hundred had it not been for his team-mates , who did n't stick around . 40.3 McClenaghan to Lakmal , out Caught by Guptill ! ! New Zealand win by 120 runs ! A short of length delivery angled across the right-hander , Lakmal goes for the pull , ends up splicing it high in the air , the ball skies straight up , Guptill runs across from cover and takes it near the non-striker 's end. Lakmal c Guptill b McClenaghan 3 ( 5 ) McClenaghan to Lakmal , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 40.3 McClenaghan to Lakmal , wide , bumper which sails well over Lakmal 's head , wided for height 40.2 McClenaghan to Lakmal , 2 runs , what commitment from the New Zealand skipper ! Good length ball on off , Lakmal chips it over mid-on , Baz runs behind the ball , dives and hauls it in just before the rope. He saved two runs for the team and set an example for the others 40.1 McClenaghan to Lakmal , no run , fuller and around off , Lakmal stays back and blocks it to short cover , McClenaghan goes down as soon as he delivers the ball 39.6 Mills to Herath , no run , the edge is found this time , but the ball does not carry to Ronchi. Back of a length around off , Herath goes for the pull , under edges it on the bounce to the keeper 39.5 Mills to Herath , no run , three in a row , Herath is riding his luck , goes for the drive with laden feet , the ball slants enough to beat the outside edge 39.4 Mills to Herath , no run , angled across the left-hander , Herath has a swish at it and is lucky not to have nicked it 39.3 Mills to Herath , no run , fuller and just outside off , Herath walks into the drive and is beaten 39.2 Mills to Lakmal , 1 run , short and on off , Lakmal flat-bats it straight down the ground , the fielder from mid-on tidies up 39.1 Mills to Lakmal , no run , back of a length outside off , Lakmal does not bother with it Kyle Mills [ 5.0-0-28-0 ] is back into the attack Suranga Lakmal , right handed bat , comes to the crease 38.6 McClenaghan to Dhammika , out Dhammika Run Out ! ! Brilliant bit of work from the tall fast bowler ! Third run-out for Sri Lanka and it is once again up to poor calling. Back of a length on middle and leg , Prasad drops it in front of mid-on , looks at Herath and decides to go for the run very late , Mills runs forward , picks up the ball and hits the bulls-eye at the non-striker 's end. No need of the third umpire as Prasad was well short of the crease. Dhammika run out ( Mills ) 2 ( 13 ) McClenaghan to Dhammika , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 38.5 McClenaghan to Dhammika , no run , guides the back of a length delivery straight to point 38.4 McClenaghan to Dhammika , no run , short of length on off , Prasad gets behind the line and blocks it towards mid-off 38.3 McClenaghan to Dhammika , no run , slanted across the right-hander , Prasad looks to flay and ca n't lay bat on that 38.2 McClenaghan to Dhammika , no run , sliding onto the pads , Prasad hangs back and defends to the right of the bowler 38.1 McClenaghan to Dhammika , no run , McClenaghan goes up for an lbw , but the umpire did n't bother. It was back of a length on off and middle , Prasad stays rooted to the crease and is struck well above the knee roll , the height was an issue there Mitchell McClenaghan [ 3.0-0-26-1 ] is back into the attack 37.6 Boult to Dhammika , 1 run , full and on the pads , Prasad flicks it to fine leg for a run 37.5 Boult to Herath , 1 run , good length delivery on the pads , Herath tucks it to deep backward square leg Rangana Herath , left handed bat , comes to the crease 37.4 Boult to Sangakkara , out Caught by Vettori ! ! Sri Lanka are eight down now as Boult gets his first wicket. This was fuller length delivery on middle and leg , Sangakkara looks to whip it to the on-side , gets a leading edge which flies high towards Vettori at mid-on , who settles under it and takes an easy catch. End of another fine innings from Sanga. Sangakkara c Vettori b Boult 81 ( 66 ) [ 4s-7 6s-2 ] Boult to Sangakkara , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 37.3 Boult to Sangakkara , FOUR , short and outside off , Sangakkara backs away and cuts it over the backward point fielder towards the third man fence for another boundary 37.2 Boult to Sangakkara , FOUR , back of the hand slower delivery on middle , Sangakkara is deceived in pace as he is early into the drive , gets an inside edge which sails past the stumps to the fine leg fence 37.1 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Sangakkara gets an inside edge onto the pad , the ball rolls towards off-side 36.6 Corey Anderson to Dhammika , no run , slower delivery slanted acorss off , Prasad looks to nurdle it to third man , but could n't manage to get bat on it 36.5 Corey Anderson to Dhammika , no run , fuller length outside off , Prasad looks to go over mid-off but misses 36.4 Corey Anderson to Sangakkara , 1 run , length delivery across off , Sangakkara comes forward and eases the drive to long-on 36.3 Corey Anderson to Sangakkara , no run , short and wide outside off , Sangakkara cuts it straight to point 36.2 Corey Anderson to Sangakkara , no run , yorker length delivery on off and middle , Sangakkara digs it back to the bowler 36.1 Corey Anderson to Sangakkara , SIX , length ball just outside off , Sangakkara leans forward and lofts it over the long-off fence for a maximum 35.6 Boult to Dhammika , no run , good length delivery going across the right-hander , Prasad comes forward and defends it 35.5 Boult to Sangakkara , 1 run , short of good length just outside off , Sangakkara cuts it to sweeper cover for a run 35.4 Boult to Dhammika , 1 run , good length delivery on middle , Prasad shuffles across and glances it to fine leg 35.3 Boult to Dhammika , no run , length delivery slanted across off , Prasad comes forward and defends it 35.2 Boult to Sangakkara , 1 run , short of length delivery on off , Sangakkara hangs back and works it to mid-on 35.1 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , short of length delivery around off , Sangakkara goes back and cuts it to point Trent Boult [ 6.0-2-18-0 ] is back into the attack It is time for the batting powerplay ! 34.6 Corey Anderson to Dhammika , no run , back of a length delivery angled across the right-hander , Prasad misses the ball as he is hit on the back thigh , the ball was going over the stumps there Dhammika Prasad , right handed bat , comes to the crease 34.5 Corey Anderson to T Perera , out Lbw ! ! Anderson gets his fourth wicket of the match. This was a good length delivery shaping in on off , Perera looks to work it to the on-side from the crease , misses and is hit on the pads on the knee roll. The umpire raised his finger immediately , Perera went for the review , but Hawk-Eye suggested that the ball would have gone on to hit the off-stump. Sri Lanka slip further and a New Zealand victory looks imminent now. T Perera lbw b Corey Anderson 2 ( 4 ) Corey Anderson to T Perera , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Perera has been given out LBW , but he reviews immediately. Anderson 's front foot is fine , three reds and Perera has to go . 34.4 Corey Anderson to T Perera , no run , fuller length delivery shaping away from outside off , Perera looks to steer it to third man , gets beaten 34.3 Corey Anderson to T Perera , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Perera looks to cut and gets beaten 34.2 Corey Anderson to T Perera , 2 runs , fuller length delivery on off , Perera comes on the front foot and drives it between extra cover and mid-off for a brace 34.1 Corey Anderson to Sangakkara , 1 run , good length delivery on off , Sangakkara drives it to long-on Thisara Perera , left handed bat , comes to the crease 33.6 Vettori to Sangakkara , out J Mendis Run Out ! ! 1 run completed. Once again a miscommunication has resulted in a run-out for Sri Lanka. This was flatter and shorter just outside off , Sangakkara makes room and cuts it towards sweeper cover , Anderson runs in from deep point , picks up with one hand and fires the throw towards the bowler , Mendis was half-way down the track when Sanga sends him back , Vettori who collects the ball throws it to Ronchi who whips the bails off. Mendis turns back and puts in the dive , but is way short of the crease , he throws his bat during the process and it looked very comical as he 's found way short of the crease. J Mendis run out ( Corey Anderson/Vettori/Ronchi ) 3 ( 8 ) Vettori to Sangakkara , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 33.5 Vettori to J Mendis , 1 run , goes on the back foot and dabs it to point 33.4 Vettori to Sangakkara , 1 run , tossed up on middle and leg , Sangakkara eases it to long-on 33.3 Vettori to Sangakkara , no run , flatter just outside off , Sangakkara chops it back to the keeper 33.2 Vettori to J Mendis , 1 run , goes on the back foot and works this shortish delivery to deep square leg 33.1 Vettori to Sangakkara , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle , Sangakkara skips down the track and chips it in the air towards long-on 32.6 Corey Anderson to J Mendis , no run , good length delivery on off , Mendis comes forward and defends it to cover 32.5 Corey Anderson to Sangakkara , 1 run , fullish and a bit wide of off , Sangakkara leans forward and drives it square of the wicket on the off-side 32.4 Corey Anderson to J Mendis , 1 run , short of good length on the hips , Mendis nudges it to mid-wicket for a run 32.3 Corey Anderson to J Mendis , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Mendis opens the face of the bat and defends it to backward point 32.2 Corey Anderson to Sangakkara , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off , Sangakkara goes back and punches it to deep extra cover 32.1 Corey Anderson to Sangakkara , 2 runs , fuller length delivery on middle , Sangakkara leans forward and clips it off his pads to deep backward square leg 31.6 Vettori to J Mendis , no run , flighted delivery on middle , Mendis shuffles across and nudges it to short fine leg 31.5 Vettori to J Mendis , no run , leans forward and turns it to square leg 31.4 Vettori to J Mendis , no run , comes on the front foot and defends it to the off-side Jeevan Mendis , left handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now 31.3 Vettori to Chandimal , out Chandimal Run Out ! ! Sangakkara has sold Chandimal a dummy. This was a flighted delivery around off , Chandimal taps it in front of cover-point and sets off in search of a quick single , Sanga takes couple of steps forward and sends him back , Chandimal was halfway down the track. Baz runs across from short cover , picks up with one hand and throws it to the keeper , who whips the bails in a flash. Chandimal was nowhere near the crease. Chandimal run out ( Brendon McCullum/Ronchi ) 9 ( 12 ) [ 4s-1 ] Vettori to Chandimal , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 31.2 Vettori to Chandimal , no run , quicker delivery on the pads , Chandimal looks to sweep but could n't make any contact on that 31.1 Vettori to Chandimal , no run , tossed up on middle , Chandimal presses forward and taps it to short mid-wicket 30.6 Corey Anderson to Chandimal , 1 run , good length delivery angling in on off , Chandimal gets forward and works it to the wide of mid-on for a run 30.5 Corey Anderson to Chandimal , FOUR , glorious shot ! Fuller in length just around off , Chandimal comes on the front foot , presents the full face of the bat and drives it to the left of the mid-on fielder for a boundary 30.4 Corey Anderson to Chandimal , no run , good length delivery angling in on off , Chandimal presses forward and pushes it to mid-on 30.3 Corey Anderson to Chandimal , 2 runs , fullish on the pads , Chandimal leans forward and clips it to deep backward square leg for a brace 30.2 Corey Anderson to Chandimal , no run , good length delivery outside off , Chandimal lifts his bat and lets it go to the keeper 30.1 Corey Anderson to Sangakkara , 1 run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Sangakkara gets forward and drives it to long-on 29.6 Vettori to Sangakkara , 1 run , tossed up , Sangakkara fetches it from outside off and wrists it to short mid-wicket , where Baz misfields and gives away the single 29.5 Vettori to Chandimal , 1 run , flighted on off , Chandimal drives and gets an inside edge to long-on 29.4 Vettori to Sangakkara , 1 run , flatter and on off , Sangakkara punches it between the bowler and short mid-wicket 29.3 Vettori to Chandimal , 1 run , arm-ball around off , Chandimal chops the cut in front of sweeper 29.2 Vettori to Chandimal , no run , skids on after pitching , Chandimal defends it to cover 29.1 Vettori to Chandimal , no run , flighted on off , Chandimal pushes it back to the bowler Daniel Vettori [ 5.0-0-13-0 ] is back into the attack 28.6 Corey Anderson to Sangakkara , no run Dinesh Chandimal , right handed bat , comes to the crease 28.5 Corey Anderson to D Karunaratne , out Caught by Mills ! ! Another wicket for Anderson ! He gets his third of the innings and against the run of play. Just when the partnership was looking dangerous , Sri Lanka have lost a wicket. It was a back of a length delivery just outside off , Karunaratne walks down the pich and mistimes the loft towards long-on , Mills runs forward and gobbles it up. D Karunaratne c Mills b Corey Anderson 26 ( 34 ) [ 4s-2 ] Corey Anderson to D Karunaratne , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 28.4 Corey Anderson to Sangakkara , 1 run , well wide of off , Sangakkara glides it to third man with an angled bat 28.3 Corey Anderson to D Karunaratne , 1 run , bit of width on offer , Karunaratne crunches it square of the wicket on the off-side 28.2 Corey Anderson to Sangakkara , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Sangakkara charges down and slaps it to sweeper cover 28.1 Corey Anderson to Sangakkara , no run , fullish and outside off , Sangakkara bends his left knee and goes for the drive , gets it off inside part back to the bowler Corey Anderson [ 5.0-0-26-2 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Elliott to D Karunaratne , no run , on a length just outside off , Karunaratne punches it back to the bowler 27.5 Elliott to Sangakkara , 1 run , takes the pace off the ball , Sangakkara waits and nudges it to fine leg 27.4 Elliott to D Karunaratne , 1 run , back of a length on off , Karunaratne opens the bat face and steers it to square third man 27.3 Elliott to Sangakkara , 1 run , another fifty for Sangakkara , his 93rd in ODIs. Short and on the body , Sangakkara swivels and pulls it to deep square leg 27.2 Elliott to D Karunaratne , 1 run , fuller and just outside off , Karunaratne drives it to the right of mid-off for a single 27.1 Elliott to D Karunaratne , FOUR , the boundaries are starting to flow now for Sri Lanka , tad short and just outside off , Karunaratne cuts it in the air , just evades the outstretched hand of Williamson at backward point , who had dived full length 26.6 McClenaghan to Sangakkara , SIX , Sangakkara makes it an even better over , 17 runs came off it. Advances down the track , converts it into a length delivery and lofts it handsomely over the long-off fence for a maximum 26.5 McClenaghan to D Karunaratne , 1 run , again , drags the length back outside off , Karunaratne cuts it to square third man 26.4 McClenaghan to D Karunaratne , FOUR , brilliant shot ! The ball went to the fence in no time. Full and tailing into the batsman , Karunaratne leans forward and whips it to deep mid-wicket , the timing was excellent on that 26.3 McClenaghan to Sangakkara , 1 run , drops it short and outside off , Sangakkara cuts it to sweeper cover 26.2 McClenaghan to Sangakkara , FOUR , " catch " shouted McClenaghan but it was in the gap , shortish and outside off , Sangakkara cracks the cut in the air , right in between the two backward point fielders , who are specifically placed for that shot 26.1 McClenaghan to D Karunaratne , 1 run , fuller and slanting in , Karunaratne mistimes the heave to mid-wicket , he got it off the inside part of the bat 25.6 Elliott to D Karunaratne , 1 run , pitched up on off , Karunaratne drives it in the air , wide of the outstretched hand of the bowler 25.5 Elliott to Sangakkara , 1 run , good length ball on off , Sangakkara leans into the drive to long-on 25.4 Elliott to D Karunaratne , 1 run , back of a length just outside off , Karunaratne forces it on the up to sweeper cover 25.3 Elliott to D Karunaratne , no run , good length ball just outside off , Karunaratne tries the steer down to third man , does not make contact 25.2 Elliott to Sangakkara , 1 run , angling in on the pads , Sangakkara leans forward and clips it to deep square leg Ronchi is standing up to the stumps 25.1 Elliott to Sangakkara , no run , starts from round the sticks , fullish and just outside off , Sangakkara drives crisply but straight to cover Grant Elliott , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 24.6 McClenaghan to D Karunaratne , no run , on a length just outside off , Karunaratne presses it to cover after coming forward 24.5 McClenaghan to D Karunaratne , 2 runs , shortens the length , Karunaratne jumps up and flicks it wristily to deep mid-wicket , nice use of the wrists 24.4 McClenaghan to D Karunaratne , no run , back of a length just outside off , Karunaratne looks to force it off the back foot , is beaten by the extra bounce 24.3 McClenaghan to D Karunaratne , no run , again , the length is short and outside off , Karunaratne middles the cut , but finds the fielder at backward point 24.2 McClenaghan to Sangakkara , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Sangakkara cuts it to sweeper cover 24.1 McClenaghan to Sangakkara , 2 runs , short of length on off , Sangakkara taps it in front of cover and takes off for a brisk run , Guptill hits the timber at the bowler 's end , but Sangakkara had made it easily. The ball ricochets off the stumps for extra runs Mitchell McClenaghan [ 1.0-0-4-1 ] is back into the attack A run-out chance has been sent upstairs. Sanga the man in question. He is in and the Not Out flashes on the giant screen . 23.6 Vettori to Sangakkara , 1 run , another tidy over from Vettori , just the 4 runs off it , flighted around off , Sangakkara wrists it down to long-on 23.5 Vettori to Sangakkara , no run , fired in on off , Sangakkara squeezes it off the toe-end to short mid-wicket 23.4 Vettori to D Karunaratne , 1 run , nurdles it from the off-stump line to backward square leg 23.3 Vettori to Sangakkara , 1 run , pushed through on off , Sangakkara knocks it to long-on 23.2 Vettori to D Karunaratne , 1 run , slower and turning in , Karunaratne drops it in front of point , takes a well judged single 23.1 Vettori to D Karunaratne , no run , flat and just outside off , Karunaratne punches it to the right of Vettori , who stops it with his boot 22.6 Williamson to D Karunaratne , 1 run , drops it short and outside off , Karunaratne cuts square of the wicket for a run 22.5 Williamson to Sangakkara , 1 run , punched off the back foot to long-on for a single 22.4 Williamson to Sangakkara , 2 runs , half tracker outside off , Sangakkara goes deep in the crease and cracks the cut in front of square , Elliott runs across to his left and makes a good tumbling stop 22.3 Williamson to Sangakkara , no run , drags the length back , Sangakkara comes down the track and pushes it towards short mid-wicket , where Baz makes an excellent stop 22.2 Williamson to Sangakkara , no run , gives this bit more air , Sangakkara defends it with the full face of the bat 22.1 Williamson to D Karunaratne , 1 run , skips out of the crease and drives it along the ground to long-on 21.6 Vettori to D Karunaratne , 1 run , leans forward , gets to the pitch and eases it to long-on 21.5 Vettori to Sangakkara , 1 run , slower and turning in , Sangakkara works it with the spin to deep square leg 21.4 Vettori to D Karunaratne , 1 run , leans forward and nudges the flighted delivery to deep mid-wicket 21.3 Vettori to D Karunaratne , no run , tosses it up on off , defended off the front foot 21.2 Vettori to D Karunaratne , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Karunaratne turns it gently towards short mid-wicket 21.1 Vettori to D Karunaratne , no run , straight roller , Karunaratne plays for the turn and is beaten comprehensively 20.6 Williamson to Sangakkara , FOUR , lovely batting ! Comes down the track , meets the pitch of the ball and hoicks it over mid-wicket , it was a safe shot as the fielder was inside the ring 20.5 Williamson to Sangakkara , FOUR , beautifully done ! Flighted around off and middle , Sangakkara kneels down and sweeps it behind square , the timing on that takes it to the fence. There was a fielder in the deep , but he had no chance 20.4 Williamson to D Karunaratne , 1 run , easily done , hangs on the back foot and punches it to long-on 20.3 Williamson to Sangakkara , 1 run , flatter and on off , Sangakkara punches it to the left of Kane , he gets a hand but can not stop the single 20.2 Williamson to Sangakkara , 2 runs , pulls the length back outside off , Sangakkara cuts it in the air to the left of backward point for a couple 20.1 Williamson to D Karunaratne , 1 run , starts from round the wicket , drifts it into the batsman , Karunaratne push-drives it to long-on Kane Williamson , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 19.6 Vettori to D Karunaratne , 1 run , quicker and on off , Karunaratne gets inside the line and milks it to deep mid-wicket 19.5 Vettori to D Karunaratne , no run , tossed up on off , Karunaratne presses forward and defends it to short cover 19.4 Vettori to D Karunaratne , no run , pushed through on off , Karunaratne goes back and whips it to mid-wicket , straight to the fielder 19.3 Vettori to D Karunaratne , no run , flatter and close to off , Karunaratne punches it back to the bowler 19.2 Vettori to D Karunaratne , no run , Karunaratne is down the track straightaway , pushes it to the left of Vettori , who dives and fields the ball 19.1 Vettori to Sangakkara , 1 run , flighted around off , Sangakkara gets across and works it to long-on 18.6 Corey Anderson to D Karunaratne , no run , on a length just outside off , Karunaratne has a waft at it and is beaten. He was outdone by the extra bounce Dimuth Karunaratne , left handed bat , comes to the crease 18.5 Corey Anderson to M Jayawardene , out Caught by Brendon McCullum ! ! New Zealand are third time lucky. After surviving to close calls , MJ has been dismissed. He looks at his bat and then tries to practice the shot on the way back to the pavilion. Fuller and angled in from round the wicket , Jayawardene does not get to the pitch as he looks to drive , ends up scooping it to Baz at mid-off. M Jayawardene c Brendon McCullum b Corey Anderson 9 ( 18 ) [ 4s-1 ] Corey Anderson to M Jayawardene , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 18.4 Corey Anderson to Sangakkara , 1 run , fuller and homing in , Sangakkara wrists it towards mid-wicket 18.3 Corey Anderson to Sangakkara , no run , touch short and just outside off , Sangakkara cuts and finds the backward point fielder 18.2 Corey Anderson to Sangakkara , FOUR , lovely shot ! Sangakkara needed the boundary to break the shackles. Charges down the wicket , converts it into a length delivery , lifts it over mid-on , who was inside the circle 18.1 Corey Anderson to Sangakkara , no run , pitched up on off , Sangakkara drives it back to the bowler , Anderson does well to bend down and parry the ball to mid-off 17.6 Vettori to M Jayawardene , 2 runs , nice loopy delivery around off , Jayawardene makes a bit of room and chips the inside out loft over extra cover , comes back for the second before the long-off fielder gets across 17.5 Vettori to M Jayawardene , no run , slower and on off , blocked down the wicket with the straightest of bats 17.4 Vettori to M Jayawardene , no run , drags the length back , Jayawardene hangs back and taps it in front of point 17.3 Vettori to M Jayawardene , no run , tossed up on middle , Jayawardene defends to the right of Vettori 17.2 Vettori to M Jayawardene , no run , flighted delivery on off , Jayawardene kneels down and looks to sweep , gets a feather onto the pad. Vettori went up and the umpire obliged. Mahela though referred it immediately , he was sure that he got an inside edge. The HotSpot confirmed that and so did the Snicko which showed a spike when ball passed bat. Another poor decision from umpire Gough MJ has been given out LBW , he went for the review straightaway. Vettori is fine with the no-ball. Did he get an inside edge ? The initial reaction from Mahela is that he got some wood on that. The HotSpot shows a mark on the bat. He is going to survive once again. The decision has been overruled . 17.1 Vettori to M Jayawardene , no run , touch short just outside off , Jayawardene cuts it gently towards backward point 16.6 Corey Anderson to M Jayawardene , 1 run , short of length on off , Jayawardene moves across and tucks it to the vacant mid-wicket region 16.5 Corey Anderson to Sangakkara , 1 run , full and slanting in , Sangakkara drives and the ball goes off the inside half towards mid-on 16.4 Corey Anderson to Sangakkara , no run , shortens the length around off , Sangakkara bunts it towards cover 16.3 Corey Anderson to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length close to off , Sangakkara comes half-forward and checks his shot , the ball was in the air but falls in front of Guptill at short cover 16.2 Corey Anderson to M Jayawardene , 1 run , tries the slower ball yorker , it ends up being a full toss , Jayawardene does well to guide it with an open face to third man 16.1 Corey Anderson to M Jayawardene , no run , Anderson comes round the wicket , angles it in just outside off , Jayawardene drives and finds the man at mid-off Time for a drinks break ! 15.6 Vettori to M Jayawardene , 1 run , floated up on middle , Jayawardene leans forward and milks it square of the wicket on the leg-side 15.5 Vettori to M Jayawardene , no run , the arm-ball from the wily Vettori , Jayawardene presses forward and ekes out an inside edge onto the pad , the ball deflects off the pad and pops towards slip. Taylor dives in front and collects the ball , but there was no conclusive evidence to rule MJ out. So , the decision was overturned as the on-field umpire had given it out The umpire is referring a catch to the TV umpire. The on-field umpire gave it out , but Taylor was not sure. Hence he sent it upstairs. It is a legal delivery , no issues with Vettori 's front foot. There is an inside edge , so no problems with that. But did Taylor get his fingers underneath the ball ? The third umpire is having a long look. He has also asked for the zoomer. Remember that earlier in the game , Guptill was not given out in the same situation. Not Out ! 15.4 Vettori to Sangakkara , 1 run , tosses it up on off , Sangakkara eases the drive to long-on 15.3 Vettori to Sangakkara , no run , slider on middle and leg , Sangakkara misses the clip , the ball rolls off the pads to short fine 15.2 Vettori to Sangakkara , no run , " catch it " was the shout but the ball lands safely , Sangakkara comes down the track and gets an inside edge onto the pads , the ball lobs up and drops well in front of Baz at short mid-wicket 15.1 Vettori to Sangakkara , no run , flighted on off , Sangakkara leans forward and pushes it to the right of Vettori Daniel Vettori , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 14.6 Corey Anderson to M Jayawardene , FOUR , length delivery outside off , Jayawardene comes forward and smashes it over the infield to the long-on fence to get off the mark 14.5 Corey Anderson to M Jayawardene , no run , short of length delivery on the hips , Jayawardene goes back and pushes it to the on-side 14.4 Corey Anderson to M Jayawardene , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Jayawardene gets forward and defends it 14.3 Corey Anderson to Sangakkara , 1 run , good length delivery on off , Sangakkara comes forward and drives it on the up square of the wicket on the off-side 14.2 Corey Anderson to Sangakkara , no run , short of good length ball just outside off , Sangakkara opens the face of the bat and dabs it to backward point 14.1 Corey Anderson to Sangakkara , FOUR , good length delivery on middle and off , Sangakkara comes on the front foot , presents the full face of the bat as he drives it to the long-on fence for a magnificent boundary 13.6 McClenaghan to M Jayawardene , no run , fullish on off , Jayawardene leans forward and drives it to mid-off , where Baz comes across , puts in a dive and stops it 13.5 McClenaghan to M Jayawardene , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Jayawardene defends it off the back foot to the off-side 13.4 McClenaghan to M Jayawardene , no run , length delivery outside off , Jayawardene leaves it alone Mahela Jayawardene , right handed bat , comes to the crease 13.3 McClenaghan to Thirimanne , out Caught by Ronchi ! ! McClenaghan gets a wicket in his first over. This was a back of a length delivery angled across the left-hander , Thirimanne goes on the back foot and tickles it to the right of Ronchi who dives and takes a brilliant catch , the ball actually popped up as Ronchi landed on the ground but he keeps calm and snaffles it in the end. Thirimanne c Ronchi b McClenaghan 29 ( 43 ) [ 4s-2 ] McClenaghan to Thirimanne , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 13.2 McClenaghan to Sangakkara , 1 run , length delivery on middle , Sangakkara clears his front foot and slogs it in the air towards Taylor at mid-wicket , who jumps and stops , saves three runs for his side Free-hit coming up.. . 13.2 McClenaghan to Thirimanne , no ball , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Thirimanne steers it to third man , McClenaghan has overstepped here 13.1 McClenaghan to Sangakkara , 1 run , good length delivery on the pads , Sangakkara works it off the front foot to deep mid-wicket Mitchell McClenaghan , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 12.6 Corey Anderson to Sangakkara , 1 run , fuller length delivery outside off , Sangakkara leans forward and drives it to sweeper cover to get off the mark Kumar Sangakkara , left handed bat , comes to the crease 12.5 Corey Anderson to Dilshan , out Caught by Ronchi ! ! Anderson gets the breakthrough for New Zealand. This was a short of length delivery wide outside off , Dilshan skips down the track and looks to cut , only manages an outside edge which is snaffled up by the keeper. Dilshan falls while trying to up the ante for Sri Lanka. Dilshan c Ronchi b Corey Anderson 21 ( 36 ) [ 4s-3 ] Corey Anderson to Dilshan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 12.4 Corey Anderson to Thirimanne , 1 run , fuller length delivery outside off , Thirimanne slices it uppishly towards third man , which falls short of him 12.3 Corey Anderson to Thirimanne , no run , good length delivery on off , Thirimanne comes forward and pushes it to cover 12.2 Corey Anderson to Thirimanne , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Thirimanne goes back and blocks it towards gully 12.1 Corey Anderson to Thirimanne , no run , fuller length on middle , Thirimanne drives it back to the bowler 11.6 Boult to Thirimanne , 1 run , back of a length delivery on off , Thirimanne runs it down to third man 11.5 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , good length delivery on off , Thirimanne flicks it to mid-on 11.4 Boult to Dilshan , 1 run , short of length delivery much closer to off , Dilshan gets an inside edge onto the pads , which dribbles away towards to point for a run 11.4 Boult to Dilshan , wide , good length delivery sliding down the leg-side , wide signalled 11.3 Boult to Dilshan , no run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Dilshan leans forward and drives it firmly to the right of short cover , where Guptill dives , stops and fires in a throw at the striker 's end , if he had hit direct Dilshan would have been short as he was looking for a single 11.2 Boult to Thirimanne , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off , Thirimanne stands tall and punches it towards backward point , where the fielder gets a hand on it and the ball dribbles away to square third man 11.1 Boult to Thirimanne , 2 runs , back of a length delivery on the hips , Thirimanne skips inside the crease and tucks it to the vacant mid-wicket region , they run hard and complete the second run easily 10.6 Corey Anderson to Thirimanne , 1 run , good length delivery just outside off , Thirimanne comes on the front foot and eases the drive to sweeper cover 10.5 Corey Anderson to Thirimanne , 2 runs , fullish delivery angling onto Thirimanne 's pads , he flicks it to deep mid-wicket for a brace 10.4 Corey Anderson to Dilshan , 1 run , length delivery just outside off , Dilshan gets forward and knocks it towards mid-off and sets off for a quick single 10.3 Corey Anderson to Thirimanne , 1 run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Thirimanne gets down on one knee and slices it to third man 10.2 Corey Anderson to Thirimanne , no run , short of good length delivery angling into the left-hander , Thirimanne defends it to the off-side 10.1 Corey Anderson to Dilshan , 1 run , good length delivery angling into the right-hander , Dilshan comes forward and works it to deep mid-wicket 10.1 Corey Anderson to Dilshan , wide , bad start by Anderson as he slips this length delivery down the leg-side , Ronchi does well to take it with a dive to his left Corey Anderson , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 9.6 Boult to Dilshan , 1 run , short of length delivery on middle and leg , Dilshan goes back and pulls it to fine leg 9.5 Boult to Dilshan , no run , fuller length delivery much closer to off , Dilshan comes down the track and mistimes the drive back to the bowler 9.4 Boult to Dilshan , no run , length delivery swinging into the right-hander , Dilshan gets an inside edge onto the pads 9.4 Boult to Dilshan , wide , good length delivery down the leg-side , wide called 9.3 Boult to Dilshan , no run , short of good length delivery around off , Dilshan is cramped for room and knocks it to the off-side 9.2 Boult to Thirimanne , leg byes , 1 run , short of length delivery on the hips , Thirimanne misses the tuck , the ball rolls off the thigh pad to the on-side 9.1 Boult to Thirimanne , 2 runs , back of a length delivery just outside off , Thirimanne opens the face of the bat and guides it towards the gully region with soft hands , second slip fielder comes across and has a direct hit at the striker 's end , they sneak in the extra run as the ball ricochets off the stumps towards short fine leg 8.6 Mills to Dilshan , no run , short of length delivery much closer to off , Dilshan jumps inside the crease and knocks it to cover-point , thinks about a single but is sent back by Thirimanne 8.5 Mills to Dilshan , no run , length delivery around off , Dilshan gets well forward and pushes it to short cover 8.4 Mills to Thirimanne , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the pads , Thirimanne stays inside the crease and tucks it to backward square leg 8.3 Mills to Dilshan , 1 run , short of length delivery on the hips , Dilshan helps it to fine leg , Mills twists his ankle at the time of delivery and falls over on the pitch 8.2 Mills to Dilshan , FOUR , short and wide yet again outside off , Dilshan this time comes across and cuts it past the backward point fielder for a boundary 8.1 Mills to Dilshan , no run , short and wide outside off , Dilshan chops it to backward point off the back foot 8.1 Mills to Dilshan , wide , short of good length delivery sliding down the leg-side , Dilshan misses the glance , wide called by the ump 7.6 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Thirimanne defends it off the back foot towards the bowler 7.5 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , on a length and shaping away outside off , Thirimanne lifts his bat and lets it go 7.4 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , full and straight on off , Thirimanne leans forward and drives it back to the bowler 7.3 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , good length delivery on off , Thirimanne gets forward and defends it to mid-off 7.2 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , short of length delivery around off , Thirimanne goes on the back foot and blocks it to the off-side 7.1 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , full and swinging away from middle , Thirimanne presses forward and drives it to the left of the bowler 6.6 Mills to Thirimanne , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Thirimanne pushes it with an angled bat to third man 6.5 Mills to Thirimanne , FOUR , full and wide outside off , Thirimanne comes on the front foot and lofts the drive over the infield to the sweeper cover fence for a boundary , top shot that 6.4 Mills to Dilshan , 1 run , length delivery angling into the pads , Dilshan glances it to fine leg to get off the strike 6.3 Mills to Dilshan , no run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Dilshan leans forward and drives it straight to short cover 6.2 Mills to Thirimanne , 1 run , short of length delivery slanted across off , Thirimanne goes back and dabs it to third man 6.1 Mills to Dilshan , 1 run , good length delivery swinging in on off , Dilshan comes forward and turns it to square leg for a run 5.6 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length delivery closer to the off-stump , Thirimanne trusts the bounce on offer and leaves it alone 5.5 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , shortens the length yet again on middle , Thirimanne jumps inside the crease and defends it to the on-side 5.4 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Thirimanne covers the stumps and lets it go through to the keeper 5.3 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , short and wide outside off , Thirimanne chases at it and misses 5.2 Boult to Dilshan , leg byes , 1 run , good length delivery swinging in on Dilshan 's pads , he misses the flick , the ball goes off the thigh pad to fine leg as the batsmen sneak in a leg bye 5.1 Boult to Dilshan , no run , short of length delivery angling in to the right-hander , Dilshan jumps inside the crease and fends it to the off-side 4.6 Mills to Dilshan , 1 run , back of a length delivery around off , Dilshan goes on the back foot and punches it to extra cover for a run 4.5 Mills to Dilshan , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Dilshan looks to cut it off the back foot and ca n't get bat on ball as it was too close to the body 4.4 Mills to Dilshan , no run , short and little width on offer , Dilshan camps on the back foot and chops it to backward point 4.3 Mills to Dilshan , no run , short of length delivery on off , Dilshan goes back and tucks it to mid-wicket 4.2 Mills to Dilshan , no run , back of a length delivery delivery outside off and shaping away , Dilshan shoulders arms 4.1 Mills to Dilshan , no run , good length delivery shaping away outside off , Dilshan comes forward and defends it to the off-side 3.6 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length delivery shaping away outside off , Thirimanne lifts his bat and lets it go 3.5 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , fullish on off , Thirimanne defends it to the off-side 3.4 Boult to Thirimanne , FOUR , fuller length delivery shaping away outside off , Thirimanne stretches forward and drives , gets an outside edge which flies past the second slip fielder to the third man fence for a boundary 3.3 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , good length delivery on off , Thirimanne presses forward and tucks it to mid-wicket 3.2 Boult to Thirimanne , 2 runs , fullish in length and shaping away outside off , Thirimanne leans forward and slices the drive to third man , where Mills gets around , puts in the dive and keeps them to only two 3.1 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , fuller length delivery swinging away outside off , Thirimanne shoulders arms 2.6 Mills to Dilshan , FOUR , short and width on offer , Dilshan comes forward and crashes the cut to the deep extra cover fence for a delightful boundary 2.5 Mills to Dilshan , no run , length delivery angling in on the pads , Dilshan comes on the front foot , misses the nudge to the on-side , the ball hits him high on the pads and rolls towards square leg 2.4 Mills to Dilshan , no run , fullish and nipping in on middle , Dilshan leans forward and drives it to mid-on 2.3 Mills to Dilshan , no run , on a length delivery swinging away from outside off , Dilshan lifts his bat and lets it go 2.2 Mills to Dilshan , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Dilshan presses forward and defends it to cover 2.1 Mills to Dilshan , FOUR , short delivery down the leg-side , Dilshan waits inside the crease and pulls it along the ground to the fine leg fence for the first boundary of the innings 1.6 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , short of good length delivery on middle , Thirimanne comes across and works it to mid-wicket 1.6 Boult to Thirimanne , wide , short of length delivery angled down the leg-side , Thirimanne misses the glance , wided by the ump 1.5 Boult to Dilshan , 1 run , full and swinging into the right-hander , Dilshan gets forward and drives it to mid-on 1.4 Boult to Dilshan , no run , fullish and swinging on the pads , Dilshan misses the glance , the ball takes the pad on the way to the keeper 1.3 Boult to Dilshan , no run , short of length delivery on off , Dilshan goes back and pushes it back to the bowler 1.2 Boult to Dilshan , no run , good length delivery swinging back in , Dilshan comes on the front foot and looks to drive it through the line , but misses 1.1 Boult to Dilshan , no run , length delivery shaping into the right-hander , Dilshan leans forward and turns it to square leg Trent Boult , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Mills to Thirimanne , 2 runs , good length delivery straying on the pads , Thirimanne gets forward and flicks it to deep mid-wicket for a brace 0.5 Mills to Thirimanne , no run , length delivery on middle , Thirimanne comes across and taps it to the on-side 0.4 Mills to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length delivery angled across the left-hander , Thirimanne lifts his bat and lets it go 0.3 Mills to Thirimanne , 2 runs , fuller length delivery on the pads , Thirimanne leans forward and flicks it to deep backward square leg 0.2 Mills to Thirimanne , no run , good length delivery outside off , Thirimanne pushes it to cover 0.1 Mills to Thirimanne , no run , loud shout for LBW not given by the ump. This was a back of a length delivery shaping into the left-hander , Thirimanne comes on the front foot and does not offer the shot , the ball thuds him high on the thigh pad , the ball would have gone over the stumps Thirimanne and Dilshan are at the crease. Thirimanne is on strike. Mills will open the attack Welcome back... Thirimanne and Dilshan are in the middle , Thirimanne will on strike. Kyle Mills opens the attack for New Zealand with two slips in place. . Hearth was the pick of the bowlers , he finished with 1/45 in his 10 overs. Lakmal was excellent at the start and Dhammika got it right at the end. Thisara Perera had a forgettable day with the ball as he conceded 86 runs in his 10 overs. It is now upto the Sri Lankan batsmen to chase down this total and stay alive in the series. Join us back in a short while for the run-chase... . Taylor joined Williamson in the middle and put on a magnificent 117-run stand for the 3rd wicket , Williamson continued his golden run in ODIs as he registered his 14th fifty , before he was sold down the river by Taylor for 97. Nonetheless , Taylor took on the anchor 's role and stitched a nice little partnership of 78 runs with Anderson , but he too fell short of his hundred and gave Sri Lankan an opportunity to come back into the game . Sri Lanka have done well today to claw their way back into this game by taking some late wickets. However , the New Zealand batsmen have once again risen up to the ocassion and have amassed a big total on the board. Lakmal and Dhammika started off well , troubling both McCullum and Guptill. The former perished early , Guptill and Williamson then put on a 59-run stand before Perera dismissed Guptill , who had a series of lucky decisions going his way . 49.6 Dhammika to Elliott , out Mills Run Out ! ! 1 run completed. Poor from Mills ! He should have slided the bat into the crease , instead he plonks it in. Fuller and just outside off , Elliott drives it towards deep extra cover , calls for the second , Mills hares back but is caught just short of the ground. Mills run out ( D Karunaratne/Dhammika ) 0 ( 0 ) Dhammika to Elliott , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Third umpire called in for a run-out chance. Mills the man in question. He is just short of the crease. OUT ! 49.5 Dhammika to Elliott , 2 runs , on a length just outside off , Elliott moves away to the leg-side and drives it inside out to deep extra cover for a couple Kyle Mills , right handed bat , comes to the crease 49.4 Dhammika to Vettori , out Vettori Run Out ! ! Good cricket from Sanga and Dhammika. Vettori goes for the team 's cause. A slower ball bouncer , Vettori is deceived by the lack of pace as he misses the pull , the batsmen try to steal a bye , Sanga takes his gloves off and throws it to the bowler , who runs back and flicks the ball onto the stumps. Vettori run out ( Sangakkara/Dhammika ) 3 ( 3 ) Dhammika to Vettori , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 49.3 Dhammika to Vettori , 2 runs , pitched up just outside off , Vettori backs away , opens the bat face and drives it towards cover-point , MJ dives and takes the pace off the ball 49.2 Dhammika to Elliott , 1 run , Elliott is standing way back in the crease , he converts this into a fuller length delivery and drives it to cover 49.1 Dhammika to Elliott , no run , length delivery just outside off , it was the right in the zone , Elliott kneels down and looks to slog it away , ekes out an inside edge onto the pad , the ball rolls back to the bowler 48.6 T Perera to Elliott , 1 run , fullish and on the stumps , Elliott gets his front leg out of the way and clips it to deep mid-wicket , keeps strike for the last over 48.5 T Perera to Elliott , FOUR , excellent shot ! Charges down the wicket , he almost yorks himself , but does well to bend down , open the bat face and slice the drive through the off-side , no one in the deep to protect the fence 48.4 T Perera to Vettori , 1 run , yorker on off , Vettori digs it to the left of the bowler and hands the strike back to Elliott 48.4 T Perera to Vettori , wide , fuller and outside off , Vettori shuffles across and fails to get bat on that , wide signalled. Sanga says he walked across , but the umpire does not agree 48.3 T Perera to Elliott , 1 run , fullish and on the stumps , Elliott drills it to long-on 48.2 T Perera to Elliott , SIX , superb hit ! Perera misses the length and pays the price for it. It was a length delivery right in the slot , Elliott clears his front leg and hammers it well over the long-on fence to bring up the 300 from New Zealand 48.1 T Perera to Elliott , 2 runs , Perera starts from round the wicket , fires it full and on the pads , Elliott flicks it behind square leg for a couple Thisara Perera [ 9.0-0-70-1 ] is back into the attack 47.6 Dhammika to Elliott , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Elliott drills it in the air , on the bounce to sweeper cover Daniel Vettori , left handed bat , comes to the crease 47.5 Dhammika to Ronchi , out Caught by D Karunaratne ! ! The hero from the previous game is gone ! Sri Lanka pulling things back nicely here. It was fuller and just outside off , Ronchi makes room and looks to go inside out , does not get it anywhere close to the middle , scoops it towards deep extra cover , good take by Karunaratne. Ronchi c D Karunaratne b Dhammika 13 ( 13 ) [ 4s-1 ] Dhammika to Ronchi , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 47.5 Dhammika to Ronchi , wide , bumper on the stumps , Ronchi goes for the pull , but it is too high and rightly called a wide 47.4 Dhammika to Elliott , leg byes , 1 run , good length ball outside off , Elliott moves across his stumps and looks to paddle , the ball takes the bottom part of the bat and dribbles to square leg 47.3 Dhammika to Ronchi , 1 run , yorker speared in outside off , Ronchi squeezes it off the toe-end to backward point 47.2 Dhammika to Ronchi , 2 runs , fuller and outside off , Ronchi stays leg-side of the ball , bends his front leg and slices it to deep backward point for a couple 47.2 Dhammika to Ronchi , wide , this is further away from the previous one , another easy call for the umpire 47.2 Dhammika to Ronchi , wide , fires it well wide of off , Ronchi does not bother with it , wided by the umpire 47.1 Dhammika to Ronchi , no run , back of a length around off , Ronchi goes a wild swing across the line , fails to make contact Dhammika Prasad [ 8.0-0-46-1 ] is back into the attack 46.6 Dilshan to Ronchi , leg byes , 1 run , slider on leg-stump , Ronchi ca n't connect with the sweep and the batsmen steal a leg bye 46.5 Dilshan to Elliott , 1 run , leg-spinner from Dilshan , Elliott bends his front knee and top-edges the slog sweep to deep mid-wicket , the ball falls well before the fielder 46.4 Dilshan to Ronchi , 1 run , flighted on middle , Ronchi backs away and lofts it on the bounce to long-off 46.3 Dilshan to Elliott , 1 run , drills the drive past the bowler and down to long-on 46.2 Dilshan to Elliott , no run , comes down the track and misses the clip , the ball rolls back to Dilshan off the pads Grant Elliott , right handed bat , comes to the crease 46.1 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , out Lbw ! ! Another batsman misses out on his hundred. Taylor knew he was a goner , but still went for the review , just to make sure. It was a quicker delivery which was full and on the stumps , Taylor misses the paddle , is struck on the full. The ball was going onto hit middle and leg-stump. Ross Taylor lbw b Dilshan 96 ( 102 ) [ 4s-7 6s-2 ] Dilshan to Ross Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Taylor has reviewed an lbw decision. It is a legal delivery. There is no inside edge. The Hawk-Eye shows that the ball would have hit middle and leg-stump. He is OUT ! 45.6 Herath to Ross Taylor , leg byes , 1 run , Herath goes for an lbw appeal , the umpire shakes his head and says not-out. Taylor misses the sweep , is rapped on the pads. There is no review for Sri Lanka , the impact might have been outside off 45.5 Herath to Ross Taylor , SIX , fantastic shot ! Taylor is turning it on for New Zealand. Great use of the feet , he dances down the wicket , gets to the pitch of the ball and tonks it well over long-on 45.4 Herath to Ronchi , 1 run , paddle sweeps it to short fine leg , the fielder has a shy at the non-striker 's end , he hits the stumps but Ronchi was well in. He was a bit too casual and the umpire wanted to be sure and hence sent it upstairs , easy call for the TV ump 45.3 Herath to Ronchi , no run , flighted on off , Ronchi drives it back towards bowler 45.2 Herath to Ross Taylor , 1 run , skips out of the crease , tries to drive and gets an inside edge 45.1 Herath to Ronchi , 1 run , follows the batsman , Ronchi makes room and drives it to long-on 44.6 Dilshan to Ronchi , 1 run , even Ronchi uses his feet and drives it along the ground to long-on 44.5 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , pushed through on middle , Taylor comes down the track and eases it to long-on 44.4 Dilshan to Ronchi , 1 run , quicker and on the stumps , Ronchi sweeps it behind square leg , thought about the second but decided against it 44.3 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , whips it from an outside off-stump line to mid-wicket 44.2 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , no run , fired in as he sees the batsman advance , Taylor does well to get his pad in the way and keep it out 44.1 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , SIX , monster hit ! That is went out of the ground. Flighted delivery around off , Taylor skips out of the crease and lofts it handsomely over long-on , his eyes lit up as soon as he saw some air on that Tillakaratne Dilshan [ 4.0-0-29-0 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Herath to Ross Taylor , 1 run , meets the pitch of the ball and nudges it to deep mid-wicket , keeps strike with that run 43.5 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , comes down the track , closes the bat face early , gets a soft leading edge towards cover 43.4 Herath to Ronchi , 1 run , slider on middle and leg , Ronchi nurdles it to square leg for a single 43.3 Herath to Ronchi , FOUR , Ronchi starts off from where he had left off , gets off the mark in style. Quicker , fuller and outside off , Ronchi drives it through the packed off-side field , beats the chasing fielder with ease 43.2 Herath to Ross Taylor , 1 run , fuller and on the stumps , Taylor eases it to long-on Luke Ronchi , right handed bat , comes to the crease 43.1 Herath to Corey Anderson , out Caught by T Perera ! ! Anderson perishes in pursuit of quick runs. It was quicker and on leg-stump , Anderson gets his front leg out of the way and goes for the heave , he gets the elevation but not the distance , picks out Perera at deep mid-wicket , who takes a well judged catch just before the rope. Corey Anderson c T Perera b Herath 40 ( 28 ) [ 4s-5 6s-1 ] Herath to Corey Anderson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 42.6 Dhammika to Corey Anderson , 1 run , fullish and outside off , Anderson reaches for it and slices it to sweeper cover 42.5 Dhammika to Corey Anderson , FOUR , terrific shot ! It was not far away from being a yorker , Anderson clears his front leg , gets under it and whips it over mid-on , the timing was superb as the ball bounces only twice before reaching the rope 42.4 Dhammika to Corey Anderson , FOUR , drilled ! The ball travelled to the fence at the rate of knots. Dhammika misses the yorker , dishes out a half volley , Anderson gets under it and drills it in the air wide of long-off , one bounce four 42.3 Dhammika to Corey Anderson , no run , darts this full and wide of off , it would have been a wide , but Anderson throws his bat at it and jams it off the inner part back to Sanga 42.2 Dhammika to Ross Taylor , 1 run , stays round the wicket to Taylor as well , full and on the pads , Taylor glances it to fine leg 42.1 Dhammika to Corey Anderson , 1 run , Dhammika continues from round the sticks , fires it full and outside off , Anderson squeezes the drive off the toe-end to long-off Dhammika Prasad [ 7.0-0-35-1 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , touch short and around off , Taylor cuts and picks out backward point. Excellent over from Herath , just the 1 run came off it 41.5 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , pushed through on off , Taylor guides it towards point with an angled bat 41.4 Herath to Corey Anderson , 1 run , quicker and on the pads , Anderson glances it to deep backward square leg 41.3 Herath to Corey Anderson , no run , fired in on leg-stump , Anderson digs it out to mid-wicket 41.2 Herath to Corey Anderson , no run , tossed up on middle , Anderson goes for the sweep , gets a top-edge that hits the body and lobs in front of backward point 41.1 Herath to Corey Anderson , no run , Herath goes up for an lbw appeal , but the umpire is unmoved. The Sri Lankan 's have taken the review , no issues with the front foot , it is a legal delivery. No wood on that , the tracker shows it pitched outside leg. It is a poor referral from Sri Lanka. Flighted on leg-stump , Anderson misses the sweep , is rapped on the pads , but the ball clearly pitched outside leg Rangana Herath [ 7.0-1-28-0 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , 2 runs , it seemed like a leg-spinner , Taylor shuffles across and looks to paddle , gets a top-edge that balloons over Sanga , it is good enough for a couple 40.5 Dilshan to Corey Anderson , 1 run , in the blockhole , Anderson squeezes it to long-on 40.4 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , quicker and on the stumps , Taylor knocks it off the back foot to long-on 40.3 Dilshan to Corey Anderson , 1 run , pushed through on off , Anderson punches it to long-off 40.3 Dilshan to Corey Anderson , wide , darted down the leg-side , Anderson gets inside the line and earns a wide for the team 40.2 Dilshan to Corey Anderson , SIX , massive ! Dilshan goes round the wicket , floated up close to off , Anderson goes down on one knee and slog sweeps it over deep mid-wicket for a maximum. That went a long way back into the crowd 40.1 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , flatter and on off , Taylor punches it towards short mid-wicket , the fielder makes a half stop but ca n't prevent the single Tillakaratne Dilshan [ 3.0-0-16-0 ] is back into the attack New Zealand scored 48 runs without losing a wicket in the batting powerplay. Poor bowling from Sri Lanka has costed them the runs 39.6 T Perera to Corey Anderson , FOUR , full and on the leg-stump line , Anderson shuffles across and flicks it to the fine leg fence , where Chandimal hares across and puts in a dive but is not able to stop the ball from reaching the boundary 39.5 T Perera to Corey Anderson , no run , fuller length delivery and follows the batsman , Anderson misses the flick , the ball goes to the off-side off the pads 39.4 T Perera to Corey Anderson , FOUR , short delivery on middle , Anderson rocks back and thumps the pull powerfully to deep backward square leg for a one bounce four 39.4 T Perera to Corey Anderson , wide , fullish and wide down the leg-side , wide given by the ump , this is horrendous stuff from Perera 39.3 T Perera to Corey Anderson , FOUR , another full toss and deserved the treatment. Full toss on leg , Anderson comes on the front foot and flicks it to the deep backward square leg fence 39.2 T Perera to Ross Taylor , 1 run , fullish and wide outside off , Taylor comes across and whips it to mid-on and gets off the strike 39.2 T Perera to Ross Taylor , wide , length delivery wide outside off , wide signalled 39.1 T Perera to Ross Taylor , FOUR , another full toss outside off , Taylor says thank you and crashes the cut to deep backward point for yet another boundary 38.6 Dhammika to Ross Taylor , leg byes , 1 run , fullish and outside leg , Taylor misses the nudge to the on-side , the ball goes off the pads towards point for a leg bye 38.5 Dhammika to Ross Taylor , 2 runs , fuller length delivery on middle , Taylor gets forward and looks to work it to the on-side , gets a leading edge which flies over the cover fielder for a brace 38.4 Dhammika to Corey Anderson , 1 run , very full outside off , Anderson drills it to long-off 38.3 Dhammika to Corey Anderson , no run , low full toss just outside off , Anderson mistimes the drive to cover 38.2 Dhammika to Ross Taylor , 1 run , yorker length delivery on middle and leg , Taylor turns it to mid-wicket off the front foot 38.2 Dhammika to Ross Taylor , wide , short and way down the leg-side , easy call for the umpire there 38.1 Dhammika to Ross Taylor , no run , back of a length delivery angled across off , Taylor bunts it to point Dhammika starts round the wicket now 37.6 T Perera to Corey Anderson , no run , another full toss around off , Anderson drives it firmly to cover 37.5 T Perera to Ross Taylor , 1 run , full toss outside off , Taylor drives it straight to sweeper cover 37.4 T Perera to Ross Taylor , no run , full toss outside off , Taylor looks to paddle , but hits it straight to backward square leg , Anderson was looking for a run , but Taylor sends him , a direct throw would have been interesting 37.3 T Perera to Corey Anderson , 1 run , looks for the yorker , bowls a full toss on leg , Anderson flicks it to deep mid-wicket 37.2 T Perera to Ross Taylor , 1 run , full and wide outside off , Taylor leans forward and steers it away to third man , where Herath comes across quickly , puts in the dive and saves three runs for his side 37.1 T Perera to Corey Anderson , 1 run , fullish on leg , Anderson digs it out to mid-wicket for a single Thisara Perera [ 7.0-0-47-1 ] is back into the attack 36.6 Dhammika to Ross Taylor , FOUR , short and wide yet again , Taylor rocks back and cuts it powerfully to the deep backward point fence for yet another boundary. This is poor stuff from Dhammika , bowling half trackers to Taylor is asking for trouble 36.5 Dhammika to Ross Taylor , no run , short of length delivery on off , Taylor goes back and fends it in front of backward point 36.4 Dhammika to Ross Taylor , FOUR , short and wide outside off , Taylor camps on the back foot and plays the cut to perfection to the deep backward point fence , the sweeper had no chance to cut it down 36.3 Dhammika to Ross Taylor , no run , short of length delivery around off , Taylor goes back and defends it to cover 36.2 Dhammika to Ross Taylor , no run , high full toss outside off , Taylor was surprised and misses out on the cut , the ball goes through to the keeper 36.1 Dhammika to Corey Anderson , 1 run , short delivery outside off , Anderson stays inside the crease and cuts it to sweeper cover Dhammika Prasad [ 5.0-0-21-1 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Herath to Ross Taylor , FOUR , fullish just outside off , Taylor presses forward and creams the cover drive to perfection for a magnificent boundary 35.5 Herath to Corey Anderson , 1 run , comes on the front foot and drives it to the left of the bowler to long-on for a run 35.4 Herath to Ross Taylor , 1 run , flatter on middle , Taylor takes a step down and works it to the vacant mid-wicket region for a run 35.3 Herath to Corey Anderson , 1 run , tossed up around off , Anderson gets down on one knee and sweeps it to deep backward square leg 35.2 Herath to Corey Anderson , 2 runs , floated across off , Anderson leans forward and sweeps it to deep backward square leg , runs hard and completes the second easily 35.1 Herath to Ross Taylor , 1 run , tossed up on off , Taylor comes on the front foot and drives it to long-on Batting powerplay time ! 34.6 Dilshan to Corey Anderson , no run , flatter delivery on middle , Anderson goes back and punches it to cover 34.5 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , tossed up delivery on off , Taylor comes on the front foot and eases the drive to long-on to bring up his 28th ODI fifty 34.4 Dilshan to Corey Anderson , 1 run , goes on the back foot and tucks it to mid-wicket 34.3 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , flighted delivery on off , Taylor leans forward and drives it to long-off 34.2 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , 2 runs , quicker delivery on the pads , Taylor glances it to fine leg for a brace Corey Anderson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 34.1 Dilshan to Williamson , out Williamson Run Out ! ! 1 run completed. Taylor sold Williamson down the river. Flatter delivery down the leg-side , Williamson kneels down and sweeps it to deep backward square leg , where Dhammika comes across and fires a throw to Sanga , Williamson was charging back for the second run , Taylor was late to say no , Williamson was mid-way down the pitch , tries to go back but Sanga hits the bulls-eye at the non-striker 's end. It was always Williamson 's call. Nonetheless , its the end of a wonderful innings. Williamson run out ( Dhammika/Sangakkara ) 97 ( 95 ) [ 4s-8 6s-2 ] Dilshan to Williamson , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 33.6 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , another quicker delivery on off , Taylor leans forward and blocks it 33.5 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , shortens the length a touch just outside off , Williamson goes back and guides it to third man for a run 33.4 Herath to Williamson , no run , quicker delivery around off , Williamson skips down the track and taps it to the on-side 33.3 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated across off , Williamson comes on the front foot and defends it to the off-side 33.2 Herath to Ross Taylor , 1 run , flighted delivery on off , Taylor skips down the track and works it to square leg for a run 33.1 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , comes down the track and takes this flighted delivery on the full and drills it to long-on Rangana Herath [ 5.0-1-15-0 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now 32.6 Dilshan to Williamson , 1 run , flighted delivery on off , Williamson leans forward and drives it to cover , who misfields as a result they take the run 32.5 Dilshan to Williamson , 2 runs , flatter and on off , Williamson gets down on one knee and pulls it to deep square leg , where the fielder comes across and saves two runs for his side 32.4 Dilshan to Williamson , no run , shortens the length seeing Williamson skip down the track , Williamson punhces it to short cover 32.3 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , floated on off , Taylor skips down the track and nudges it to square leg for a run 32.2 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , no run , flighted delivery on off , Taylor leans forward and pushes it back to the bowler 32.1 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , no run , tossed up on middle , Taylor turns it to mid-wicket 31.6 T Perera to Ross Taylor , 1 run , short again and on off , Taylor camps on the back foot and pulls it straight to deep mid-wicket and reatins the strike 31.5 T Perera to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Williamson runs it down to third man 31.4 T Perera to Ross Taylor , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Taylor rocks back and cuts it hard again to backwad point , where Dilshan dives to his left and gets a hand to it , the ball dribbles to third man for a run 31.3 T Perera to Ross Taylor , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Taylor goes back and cuts it to backward point , where Dilshan jumps and saves a boundary for his team 31.2 T Perera to Williamson , 1 run , good length delivery on off , Williamson drills it to long-off 31.1 T Perera to Williamson , FOUR , short of length delivery on off , Williamson stays inside the crease and lofts it straight down the ground for a one bounce four 30.6 Dilshan to Williamson , 1 run , skips down the track and goes inside out over extra cover for a run 30.5 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , tossed up on middle , Taylor leans forward and turns it to deep mid-wicket to bring the 100-run stand between these two 30.4 Dilshan to Williamson , 1 run , goes on the back foot and works this flatter delivery to to deep mid-wicket , he was thinking about the second run , but fell over when he turned around 30.3 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , floated on the pads , Taylor tucks it to deep backward square leg 30.2 Dilshan to Williamson , 1 run , shortens the length on middle , Williamson skips down the track and eases it to long-on 30.1 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , waits for the ball to turn and nurdles it to square leg Tillakaratne Dilshan , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 29.6 T Perera to Ross Taylor , 1 run , back of a length around off , Taylor punches it towards sweeper cover for a single 29.5 T Perera to Ross Taylor , FOUR , dug in mid-way down the wicket , Taylor takes it on , pulls it off the top-edge and the ball flies away to fine leg , the fielder was square and had no chance of stopping that 29.4 T Perera to Williamson , 1 run , again , short and outside off , Williamson cut away square of the wicket on the off-side 29.3 T Perera to Williamson , 2 runs , shortish and plenty of width on offer , Williamson jumps up and slashes a cut towards third man , a better throw or if the bowler had gone back to the stumps , then Taylor would have been in trouble 29.2 T Perera to Ross Taylor , 1 run , shortish and just outside off , Taylor cuts it towards third man 29.1 T Perera to Williamson , 1 run , on middle and leg , Williamson leans forward and nudges it to deep mid-wicket Thisara Perera [ 5.0-0-29-1 ] is back into the attack 28.6 J Mendis to Williamson , 1 run , floated up around off , Williamson eases the drive to long-off and retains strike 28.5 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , 1 run , drops the flighted delivery towards cover and takes a quick single 28.4 J Mendis to Williamson , 1 run , drops it short and on middle , Williamson rocks back and pulls it to deep mid-wicket , the fielder does well to keep them down to only a single 28.3 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , 1 run , too full and on off , Taylor squeezes the drive to long-off 28.2 J Mendis to Williamson , 1 run , fraction short and just outside off , Williamson cuts it to sweeper cover 28.1 J Mendis to Williamson , FOUR , that is a freebie from Mendis , friendly full toss on middle and leg , Williamson bends his front knee and sweeps it to deep square leg. The fielder does a mess near the rope , dives all over the place and allows the ball to go through 27.6 Thirimanne to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length close to off , Williamson stands tall and punches it past the diving cover fielder 27.5 Thirimanne to Williamson , 2 runs , bit of width on offer , Williamson waits in the crease and glides it fine , comes back for two before the ball is hunted down 27.4 Thirimanne to Williamson , no run , on a length close to off , Williamson dabs it to point , picks out the fielder there 27.3 Thirimanne to Williamson , no run , pitched up just outside off , Williamson goes for the expansive drive , ekes out an inside edge onto the pad 27.2 Thirimanne to Williamson , no run , fullish and just outside off , Williamson drives it uppishly to mid-off , goes on the bounce to the fielder 27.1 Thirimanne to Williamson , FOUR , poor delivery from Thiri , errs in line and drifts onto the pads , Williamson stays inside the crease and tickles it fine , the fielder was inside the circle and had no chance of stopping that 26.6 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , low full toss , Taylor drives it back to the bowler 26.5 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , Mendis gets away with a short delivery , Taylor cuts it straight to backward point , either side and that would have been four 26.4 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , quicker , fuller and on off , Taylor squeezes it to cover 26.3 J Mendis to Williamson , 1 run , tossed up on off , Williamson skips out of the crease and milks it wide of mid-wicket 26.2 J Mendis to Williamson , no run , floated on middle , Williamson goes inside out and drives it to cover 26.1 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , 1 run , low full toss on middle , Taylor pushes it to short mid-wicket , where the fielder misfields 25.6 Thirimanne to Williamson , SIX , the dibbly-dobbly from Thirimanne has been dealt with , it was a nice loopy delivery , Williamson kneels down and slog sweeps it to cow corner. The ball had enough fuel to clear the rope 25.5 Thirimanne to Ross Taylor , 1 run , nips back in from a length , Taylor tucks it to deep mid-wicket 25.4 Thirimanne to Williamson , 1 run , fuller and on off , Williamson eases the drive to long-on 25.3 Thirimanne to Ross Taylor , 1 run , hint of inward movement for Thir , Taylor nudges it to through the vacant mid-wicket region 25.2 Thirimanne to Ross Taylor , no run , good length ball around off , Taylor defends it down the wicket 25.1 Thirimanne to Williamson , 1 run , starts with a floaty delivery outside off , Williamson dabs it to third man Lahiru Thirimanne , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 24.6 J Mendis to Williamson , 1 run , this time plays the paddle sweep , gets it to the right of short fine leg 24.5 J Mendis to Williamson , 2 runs , flighted on middle and leg , Williamson bends his front knee and sweeps it to deep backward square leg for a couple 24.4 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , 1 run , loopy delivery on leg-stump , Taylor gets to the pitch and eases it to long-on 24.3 J Mendis to Williamson , 1 run , low full toss , Williamson presses forward and wrists it to long-on 24.2 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , whipped off the back foot to long-on 24.1 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , bit too full and on off , Taylor squeezes the drive to the left of the bowler , Mendis does well to field the ball 23.6 Lakmal to Williamson , 2 runs , Williamson 's purple patch continues , brings up his 14th ODI fifty. Fuller and on middle , Williamson leans forward and clips it to deep mid-wicket for a brace . 23.5 Lakmal to Ross Taylor , 1 run , straightens a touch , Taylor closes the bat face early as he looks to work it to the on-side , gets a leading edge wide of cover 23.4 Lakmal to Ross Taylor , 2 runs , touch short and just outside off , Taylor flashes a cut behind point , Mendis from third man tidies up and keeps the duo down to a couple 23.3 Lakmal to Ross Taylor , no run , bouncer outside off , Taylor sways back and allows the ball to thud into Sanga 's gloves 23.2 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length just outside off , Williamson rides the bounce and guides it to third man 23.1 Lakmal to Williamson , SIX , massive ! Full delivery on the pads , Williamson says thank you very much and deposits it into the crowd. He played the pick-up shot and send the ball around 20 rows back into the crowd 22.6 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , slower and just outside off , Taylor comes down the track and pushes it to cover 22.5 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , FOUR , crunched ! That was all power from Taylor. Bit more air on this and width on offer , Taylor frees his arms and drills the loft towards long-off , the fielder does not get his body behind the ball and allows it to go past him 22.4 J Mendis to Williamson , 1 run , a slight miscommunication , but no harm done. Flighted on off , Williamson takes a couple of steps forward and taps it to the on-side , there was slight confusion between the two batsmen , but they go through with the single. Sanga runs across and has a shy at the stumps , but fails to hit 22.3 J Mendis to Williamson , no run , tossed up on the stumps , Williamson kneels down and sweeps , finds the fielder at backward square 22.2 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , 1 run , floated up on off , Taylor drives it to long-off 22.1 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , slower and turns back , Taylor goes for the drive and is beaten comprehensively , so is Sanga who fails to collect the ball 21.6 Lakmal to Ross Taylor , 1 run , searches the inswinging yorker , instead bowls a full toss on middle and leg , Taylor glances it to fine leg for a single 21.5 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , short of length around off , Williamson runs it down to third man with an angled bat 21.4 Lakmal to Ross Taylor , 1 run , nips back in from a length , Taylor works it off inside part to deep backward square leg 21.3 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length on off , Williamson gets behind the line and nudges it to deep mid-wicket 21.2 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , fuller and curls back in , Williamson gets his front foot out of the way and drives it to mid-on 21.1 Lakmal to Ross Taylor , 1 run , starts with one on Taylor 's pads , he flicks it fine down to long leg Suranga Lakmal [ 5.0-1-14-0 ] is back into the attack 20.6 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , 1 run , quicker and outside off , Taylor knocks it with soft hands in front of sweeper , thinks about the second but decides against it 20.5 J Mendis to Williamson , 1 run , flatter and on off , Williamson uses the depth of the crease and punches it to long-on 20.4 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , 1 run , throws this up generously , Taylor chips down the track and eases it to long-on 20.3 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , tossed up on the stumps , Taylor turns it gently to short mid-wicket 20.2 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , straight roller around off , Taylor cuts it to backward point , picks out the fielder there 20.1 J Mendis to Williamson , 1 run , floated up on off , Williamson comes forward and drives inside out to long-off Jeevan Mendis , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 19.6 T Perera to Williamson , 1 run , Williamson hangs back and steers this with an open bat face to third man 19.5 T Perera to Williamson , no run , shortens the length on the fourth stump line , Williamson looks to force it off the back foot , ball squirts off the inside edge and bounces over the stumps. That was very close 19.4 T Perera to Williamson , no run , tad short and close to off , Williamson dabs it to backward point , calls " wait on " for the single 19.3 T Perera to Ross Taylor , 1 run , back of a length around off , Taylor stands up and eases the punch square of the wicket on the off-side 19.2 T Perera to Williamson , 1 run , drags the length back and drifts it onto Williamson 's pads , tucked away in front of square leg for a single 19.1 T Perera to Williamson , no run , on a length just outside off , Williamson drives it on the up to mid-off , no feet movement whatsoever from Williamson 18.6 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , comes down the track and yorks himself , manages to dig it back to the bowler 18.5 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , floated up on off , Taylor defends it back down the wicket 18.4 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , Herath appeals for lbw , but the umpire is not interested. The slider on middle and leg , Taylor leans forward and misses the nudge to the on-side , is rapped on the pads but the ball was sneaking down leg 18.3 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , skips out of the crease , gets to the pitch and drives it towards cover , where Dilshan makes a fine stop 18.2 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , slower and on off , Taylor stays in the crease and knocks it to the right of Herath 18.1 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , flighted around off , Taylor bunts it in front of point 17.6 T Perera to Ross Taylor , 1 run , short delivery , Taylor fetches it from outside off and pulls it along the ground to deep square leg , picks the fielder there , either side and that would have been another four 17.5 T Perera to Ross Taylor , no run , typical fast bowlers response after being hit for a four , bumper on the stumps , Taylor ducks underneath it and allows it to go through 17.4 T Perera to Ross Taylor , FOUR , cracking shot ! This should get him going. Half volley outside off , Taylor gets a good stride forward and nails the cover drive to perfection , no chance for the sweeper to stop that 17.3 T Perera to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length on off , Williamson shuffles across and tucks it to deep mid-wicket , the fielder was in the deep 17.2 T Perera to Williamson , FOUR , Perera tries to repeat the previous ball , but does not get the required bounce this time , it sat up nicely for Williamson , he rocks back and muscles the pull in front of square. That came right off the middle as the ball raced away to the fence 17.1 T Perera to Ross Taylor , 1 run , banged in halfway down the wicket , the ball gets big on Taylor , who jumps up and fends it with soft hands to the on-side. Good call from Williamson for the single 16.6 Herath to Ross Taylor , 1 run , fires it in full and outside off , Taylor drives it to deep extra cover 16.5 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , flighted on off , Taylor presses forward and blocks it down the pitch 16.4 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , comes down the track , meets the pitch of the ball and drives it to long-off 16.3 Herath to Williamson , no run , slider around off , Williamson camps on the back foot and looks to cut , chops it to backward point. That was too close to be playing the cut 16.2 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up on middle , Williamson pushes it to the right of Herath 16.1 Herath to Ross Taylor , 1 run , nice loopy delivery around off , Taylor eases it to long-off Time for a drinks break. . 15.6 T Perera to Ross Taylor , 1 run , full and homing in on middle , Taylor leans forward and nudges it to mid-wicket 15.5 T Perera to Ross Taylor , no run , back of a length close to off , Taylor is neither forward nor back as he knocks it down the wicket 15.4 T Perera to Ross Taylor , no run , shortens the length around off , Taylor gets behind the line and knocks it in front of cover 15.3 T Perera to Ross Taylor , no run , on a length close to off , Taylor presses it to cover after coming forward 15.2 T Perera to Williamson , 1 run , short and rises steeply , the line is outside off though , Williamson fails to get on top of the bounce as he cuts it uppishly , the ball goes on the bounce to third man 15.1 T Perera to Ross Taylor , 1 run , back of a length on middle and leg , Taylor tucks it away down to fine leg 14.6 Herath to Ross Taylor , 1 run , leans forward and works it to square leg 14.5 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , goes on the back foot and turns it to mid-wicket 14.4 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , comes on the front foot and pushes it to cover 14.3 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , charges down the track and blocks it 14.2 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , skips down the track and defends it back to the bowler 14.1 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , catch dropped by Dilshan at short cover. This was a tossed up delivery just around off , Williamson leans forward and chips it in the air towards Dilshan at short cover , who jumps but fails to grab a dolly of a catch. He was very casual in his attempt 13.6 T Perera to Williamson , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off , Williamson dabs it to third man 13.5 T Perera to Ross Taylor , 1 run , good length delivery just outside off , Taylor drives it to cover Ross Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 13.4 T Perera to Guptill , out Caught by Sangakkara ! ! Guptill 's vigil comes to an end. This was a short of good length delivery shaping in to the right-hander , Guptill was looking to defend off the front foot , the ball takes the inside edge onto the pad and goes to Sangakkara who completes an easy catch. The Sri Lankan 's decide to review and HotSpot showed that there was a nick. So a good decision taken by Sri Lanka. Guptill c Sangakkara b T Perera 28 ( 43 ) [ 4s-4 ] T Perera to Guptill , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Sri Lanka have asked for a review , Guptill is the man in question. Perera 's front foot is fine , the HotSpot shows a nick. So Guptill has to go 13.3 T Perera to Guptill , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Guptill drives it to mid-on 13.2 T Perera to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Williamson opens the face of the bat and guides it to third man 13.1 T Perera to Williamson , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Williamson stays inside the crease and chops it tot he right of the keeper 12.6 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , tossed up on off , Williamson leans forward and eases it to long-off 12.5 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery on off , Williamson drives it straight to cover 12.4 Herath to Williamson , no run , quicker delivery on the pads , Williamson tucks it to the on-side 12.3 Herath to Williamson , no run , flatter on the pads , Williamson whips it to mid-wicket 12.2 Herath to Williamson , FOUR , flighted delivery on middle , Williamson skips down the track and lofts it inside-out over the infield to the deep extra cover fence 12.1 Herath to Guptill , 1 run , comes on the front foot and drives it to the left of the bowler to long-off for a run 11.6 T Perera to Guptill , 1 run , fuller length delivery on middle , Guptill leans forward and clips it to deep backward square leg 11.5 T Perera to Guptill , 2 runs , fuller length delivery on off , Guptill comes forward and drives it to mid-off , the fielder at mid-off has a shy at the non-striker 's end , the ball ricochets off the stumps towards mid-wicket as the batsmen steal an extra run 11.4 T Perera to Guptill , 2 runs , length delivery on off , Guptill lofts it straight down the ground for a brace 11.3 T Perera to Guptill , no run , good length delivery middle , Guptill drives it to mid-on 11.2 T Perera to Guptill , FOUR , short delivery on off , Guptill goes on the back foot and pulls it to the deep mid-wicket fence for a boundary 11.1 T Perera to Guptill , no run , good length delivery shaping away from the right-hander , Guptill is stuck in the crease and pokes at it , edges it to the keeper , which falls just short of Sanga. Sangakkara was not sure whether the ball carried to him or not , so the umpires decided to go to the third umpire , but replays suggested that the ball fell just short of Sanga Thisara Perera , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 10.6 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated on off , Williamson charges down the track and blocks it back to the bowler 10.5 Herath to Williamson , 2 runs , gives more air to this one and turning away outside off , Williamson comes down the track and drags it to deep mid-wicket for a brace 10.4 Herath to Williamson , no run , shortens the length a touch , Williamson punches it back to the bowler 10.3 Herath to Guptill , 1 run , tossed up on off , Guptill presses forward and pushes it to the left of cover for a run 10.2 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle , Williamson skips down the track and flicks it to long-on 10.1 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up on middle , Williamson comes on the front foot and defends it back to the bowler Rangana Herath , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 9.6 Dhammika to Guptill , FOUR , fuller length delivery around off , Guptill leans forward and lofts it through the line over the infield for a one bounce four to long-off 9.5 Dhammika to Guptill , no run , length delivery on middle , Guptill comes forward and pushes it to mid-on 9.4 Dhammika to Guptill , no run , good length delivery on off , Guptill comes forward and pushes it to the off-side 9.3 Dhammika to Guptill , byes , FOUR , short of length delivery shaping into the right-hander , Guptill is cut into half as he misses the cut , the ball goes to the left of diving Sanga for four byes 9.2 Dhammika to Williamson , 1 run , short of good length delivery around off , Williamson knocks it to backward point with soft hands for a quick single 9.1 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , short of length delivery on the hips , Williamson jumps back inside the crease and turns it to square leg 8.6 Lakmal to Guptill , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Guptill leans forward and drives it to back to the bowler , who fields well in his followthrough 8.5 Lakmal to Guptill , FOUR , good length delivery on middle and leg , Guptill comes on the front foot and smashes it to the deep square leg fence for a boundary 8.4 Lakmal to Guptill , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Guptill stays inside the crease and punches it to mid-off 8.3 Lakmal to Guptill , no run , fuller length delivery shaping away from the right-hander , Guptill is drawn into the drive and gets beaten 8.3 Lakmal to Guptill , wide , short delivery down the leg-side , Guptill rocks back and misses the pull , wided by the umpire 8.2 Lakmal to Guptill , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Guptill goes back and knocks it to point 8.1 Lakmal to Guptill , no run , fuller length delivery shaping away from middle , Guptill comes forward and pushes it to mid-on 7.6 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , short of length delivery around off , Williamson goes back and defends it to the off-side 7.5 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , on a length around off , Williamson gets forward and defends it down the wicket 7.4 Dhammika to Williamson , FOUR , half-volley on middle and leg , Williamson leans forward and flicks it between mid-on and mid-wicket for another boundary 7.3 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Williamson presses forward and drives it back to the bowler 7.2 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , good length delivery on off , Williamson comes on the front foot and defends it to cover 7.1 Dhammika to Williamson , FOUR , fullish delivery on off , Williamson leans forward and drives it to the left of mid-on , who gets a hand to it , but the ball races to the long-on fence for a boundary 6.6 Lakmal to Guptill , no run , short of length delivery around off , Guptill stays inside the crease and punches it to backward point 6.5 Lakmal to Guptill , 2 runs , good length delivery on the pads , Guptill shuffles across and tucks it to deep backward square leg 6.4 Lakmal to Guptill , no run , short of good length delivery shaping away from the right-hander , Guptill knocks it to point 6.3 Lakmal to Guptill , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Guptill blocks it back to the bowler 6.2 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off , Williamson runs it down to square third man 6.1 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , good length delivery shaping away from the right-hander , Williamson presses forward , has a poke at it and misses 5.6 Dhammika to Williamson , 1 run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Williamson leans forward and pushes it to cover for a quick single 5.5 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , short of good length delivery on middle , Williamson looks to work it to the on-side and misses , the ball hits him high on the pads , Dhammika pleads for an LBW again , but is turned down by the umpire , height was the factor there 5.4 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , fullish on middle and leg , Williamson comes on the front foot , looks to defend and misses , the ball hits him high over the knee roll , a muted shout for LBW is turned down 5.3 Dhammika to Guptill , 1 run , short delivery on middle , Guptill moves across and pulls it to fine leg for a run 5.2 Dhammika to Guptill , no run , good length delivery on off , Guptill presses forward and blocks it to short cover 5.1 Dhammika to Guptill , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Guptill leans forward and drives it to mid-off Looks like Chandimal has injured his finger , he 's walking off the field 4.6 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , fullish just outside off , Williamson comes on the front foot and drives it to cover 4.5 Lakmal to Williamson , no run 4.4 Lakmal to Williamson , no run 4.3 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , short of length delivery shaping away outside off , Williamson pokes at it and misses 4.2 Lakmal to Williamson , 2 runs , short of length delivery around off , Williamson goes on the back foot and punches it between mid-off and extra cover for a brace 4.1 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , short and outside off , Williamson cuts it to short cover-point 3.6 Dhammika to Guptill , no run , short of length delivery on off , Guptill defends it down the wicket 3.5 Dhammika to Guptill , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Guptill pushes it to cover-point 3.4 Dhammika to Guptill , no run , good length delivery on off , Guptill defends it to the off-side 3.3 Dhammika to Guptill , no run , huge shout for LBW , not given by the ump. This was a fuller length delivery shaping into the right-hander , Guptill leans forward and looks to work it to the on-side and misses , he was stuck dead in front of middle stump. Dhammika immediately asked for a review , but unfortunately the umpire says that the DRS was currently not available due to some technical issues 3.2 Dhammika to Guptill , no run , fullish on off and middle , Guptill comes on the front foot and flicks it to mid-on 3.1 Dhammika to Guptill , FOUR , bad way to start the over , this was a good length delivery on the pads , Guptill moves across and glances it to the fine leg fence 2.6 Lakmal to Williamson , FOUR , back of a length delivery just outside off , Williamson goes on the back foot and punches it square of the wicket on the off-side for a boundary 2.5 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , short of length delivery shaping away from outside off , Williamson pokes and misses 2.4 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , on a length and shaping away from the batsman , Williamson pushes at it and gets beaten 2.3 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , good length delivery shaping away from the right-hander , Williamson lets it go through to the keeper 2.2 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , good bouncer at the batsman , Williamson sways away from the line 2.1 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Williamson covers the stumps and shoulders arms 1.6 Dhammika to Guptill , no run , short of length delivery on middle , Guptill pushes it to mid-wicket 1.5 Dhammika to Guptill , 2 runs , overpitches this one on off , Guptill digs it out between cover and point for a brace 1.4 Dhammika to Guptill , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Guptill defends it back to the bowler 1.3 Dhammika to Guptill , no run , good length delivery on off , Guptill comes forward and defends it to mid-wicket Kane Williamson , right handed bat , comes to the crease 1.2 Dhammika to Brendon McCullum , out Caught by T Perera ! ! What a brillaint catch by Perera. This was a short of length delivery on off , McCullum skips down the track and swings wildly , the ball goes off the splice of the bat very high in the air towards long-off , Perera runs back from mid-off and takes a screamer. New Zealand yet again lose their first wicket with 0 runs on the board. Brendon McCullum c T Perera b Dhammika 0 ( 2 ) Dhammika to Brendon McCullum , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 1.1 Dhammika to Brendon McCullum , no run , fuller length delivery around off , McCullum leans forward and drives it to mid-off Dhammika Prasad will bowl from the other end , he has a slip and a short mid-wicket in place.. . Dhammika Prasad , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Lakmal to Guptill , no run , short and wide outside off , Guptill camps on the back foot , looks to cut but misses 0.5 Lakmal to Guptill , no run , good length delivery shaping away a touch outside off , Guptill leaves it alone 0.4 Lakmal to Guptill , no run , short of good length delivery outside off , Guptill shoulders arms 0.3 Lakmal to Guptill , no run , fuller length delivery swinging away from outside off , Guptill lifts his bat and lets it go 0.2 Lakmal to Guptill , no run , short of length delivery on off , Guptill stays inside the crease and pushes it to the off-side 0.1 Lakmal to Guptill , no run , good length delivery shaping away from the right-hander , Guptill comes forward and defends it to point Guptill and Brendon McCullum are at the crease. Guptill is on strike. Lakmal will open the attack Martin Guptill and Brendon McCullum are in the middle , Guptill will be on strike. Lakmal will start the proceedings for Sri Lanka with two slips in place.. . Sri Lanka have also made two changes to their side. Senanayake and Kulasekara make way for Herath and Prasad . As per New Zealand 's rotation policy , Nathan McCullum and Tim Southee sit out for this game. Daniel Vettori and Kyle Mills are back into the playing XI. With his inclusion Daniel Vettori , becomes the most capped ODI player for New Zealand with 280 caps to his name . Teams : Sri Lanka ( Playing XI ) : Lahiru Thirimanne ( c ) , Tillakaratne Dilshan , Kumar Sangakkara ( w ) , Mahela Jayawardene , Dimuth Karunaratne , Dinesh Chandimal , Thisara Perera , Jeevan Mendis , Dhammika Prasad , Rangana Herath , Suranga Lakmal New Zealand ( Playing XI ) : Martin Guptill , Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Grant Elliott , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( w ) , Daniel Vettori , Kyle Mills , Mitchell McClenaghan , Trent Boult New Zealand have won the toss and have opted to bat It is a do-or-die game for the visitors. With New Zealand leading the series 3-1 and two games remaining , Sri Lanka have to win to stay alive in the series. Will they make any changes to the side that played the in last match ? Will New Zealand test out their bench strength ? Hello and welcome to the sixth ODI at Dunedin. Stay tuned as toss and teams are coming up in a short while... . Sri Lanka were poor with the ball , that is putting it mildly. There were too many full tosses and long hops dished out during the latter half of the game. They duly missed Mathews , who is nursing a calf injury and will not be available for today 's game as well. Tillakaratne Dilshan scored a valiant hundred , but none of the other batters contributed. They lost their last 8 wickets for just 41 runs . In the previous game , Luke Ronchi and Grant Elliott got New Zealand back into the game from a difficult situation. The hosts were struggling at 93/5 before the duo put on a record 267-run stand for the sixth wicket. Both batsmen got to their respective hundreds , with Ronchi going berserk at the end. The wicket-keeper went onto make 170 , the most runs scored by a No. 7 batsman. Elliott , on the other end , silenced his critics who were not happy with his inclusion in the World Cup squad with an all-round show . Preview Before the start of the ODI series , there was a perception that New Zealand relied too heavily on Kane Williamson and Brendon McCullum for their success. There were some weak points in the team which made their ODI set-up a little shaky. After five matches in the series against Sri Lanka , the hosts are leading 3-1 and they are ironing out their weak points ahead of the World Cup . The big gains in the last two matches have been Luke Ronchi and Grant Elliott. New Zealand 's wicketkeeper helped them close out a thriller at Nelson thanks to his 15-ball 32 and a couple of days later , he repeated his heroics in a spectacular fashion in Dunedin. His unbeaten 170 was the third-highest score by a wicketkeeper and the highest by a No 7 batsman . On the other hand , Elliott has also redeemed himself after being sidelined in the New Zealand team for close to a year. His crucial 88-run stand with Williamson in Nelson and his world record 267-run stand with Ronchi at Dunedin have established him as the batsman who can drag the team out of a tough situation. Slowly , New Zealand are assuming a feeling of completeness in both bowling and batting . Sri Lanka , on the other hand , are crumbling in all departments. The team is still heavily reliant on Mahela Jayawardene , Kumar Sangakkara and Tillakaratne Dilshan for big scores while it is missing the experience of Lasith Malinga. Sri Lanka have n't been helped by the absence of Angelo Mathews , who will be absent for the sixth ODI as well due to a calf strain. With the bowlers going for plenty in the fifth ODI , there might be some changes to the bowling department . New Zealand The batting looks in great condition but the top order will be aiming to avoid a repeat of their Friday collapse , when they were in trouble at 93 for five. Martin Guptill still continues to blow hot and cold while Ross Taylor will be desperate to change his luck , having scored just one fifty in the last eight innings and averaging just over 30. The only changes in the team might be in the bowling and it could be in the spin department. Nathan McCullum did not bowl his full quota of overs and this might tempt the team management to play Daniel Vettori in the next match . Probable XI 1 Martin Guptill , 2 Brendon McCullum ( c ) , 3 Kane Williamson , 4 Ross Taylor , 5 Grant Elliott , 6 Corey Anderson , 7 Luke Ronchi ( wk ) , 8 Nathan McCullum/Daniel Vettori , 9 Tim Southee , 10 Mitchell McClenaghan , 11 Trent Boult Sri Lanka With Mathews missing out , Lahiru Thirimanne will again captain the team. Sri Lanka will probably include Rangana Herath in order to contain New Zealand 's aggression. All the bowlers took some stick on Friday , particularly Suranga Lakmal , who went for 93 in his 10 overs , could be excluded from the team on Sunday . Probable XI 1 Lahiru Thirimanne ( c ) , 2 Tillakaratne Dilshan , 3 Kumar Sangakkara ( wk ) , 4 Mahela Jayawardene , 5 Dimuth Karunaratne , 6 Dinesh Chandimal , 7 Thisara Perera , 8 Jeevan Mendis , 9 Rangana Herath , 10 Nuwan Kulasekara , 11 Suranga Lakmal/Dhammika Prasad Teams : Sri Lanka ( From ) : Lahiru Thirimanne ( c ) , Tillakaratne Dilshan , Kumar Sangakkara ( w ) , Mahela Jayawardene , Dimuth Karunaratne , Dinesh Chandimal , Thisara Perera , Jeevan Mendis , Sachithra Senanayake , Nuwan Kulasekara , Suranga Lakmal , Rangana Herath , Shaminda Eranga , Dhammika Prasad , Lasith Malinga , Angelo Mathews New Zealand ( From ) : Martin Guptill , Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Grant Elliott , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( w ) , Nathan McCullum , Tim Southee , Mitchell McClenaghan , Trent Boult , Kyle Mills , Adam Milne , Tom Latham , Daniel Vettori , Matt Henry Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
