Pakistan star Afridi banned , apologises in ball-tampering row KARACHI , 2010/Jan/31 22 : 16 : 00 Text Size Pakistan 's Shahid Afridi , pictured in 2009 , has been banned for two Twenty20 internationals after being caught up in a ball-tampering row during his team 's defeat in Sunday 's final one-dayer against Australia. © Cricbuzz Pakistan 's star all-rounder Shahid Afridi apologised on Sunday after being caught biting the ball in the final one-dayer against Australia , a bizarre episode which cost him a two-match ban . The 29-year-old Afridi , leading the team in the absence of rested captain Mohammad Yousuf , was caught by television cameras chewing on one side of the ball while walking with bowler Rana Naved-ul-Hasan in the fifth and final match at the WACA in Perth . Under International Cricket Council rules any attempt to change the condition of the ball through illegal means is a violation of the players ' code of conduct and is liable to punishment . The on-field and third umpires reported the incident to match referee Ranjan Madugalle who conducted separate hearings with team manager Abdur Raqeeb and Afridi before handing the player a two-match international Twenty 20 ban . Afridi pleaded guilty and told AFP from Perth he was ashamed of the mistake . " I am ashamed. I did it in the heat of the moment as the match was a close one , but I should not have done that , it 's a serious offence , " Afridi said . " I apologise to all and everyone involved in the match and to the fans around the world. This will never happen again. " Pakistan lost Sunday 's match by two wickets for a 5-0 cleansweep , only their second such whitewash in one-day history . The ban means Afridi , who is Pakistan 's captain in the shortest format , will miss the February 5 Twenty20 match against Australia in Melbourne and also the first of two Twenty20 games against England in Dubai on February 18 . The dashing allrounder was banned for four one-day matches after he tried to hit a spectator during a match in South Africa in 2007 . He was also banned for a Test and two one-day internationals for deliberately damaging the pitch in the second Test against England at Faisalabad in 2005 . " Being the captain I should have been a role model for my players which I was not but I hope I will be forgiven , " added Afridi . The International Cricket Council confirmed that Afridi had received two suspension points after breaching the ICC Code of Conduct during the game. Two suspension points in the code means a ban of a Test , two ODIs or two T20Is . Match referee Ranjan Madugalle handed Afridi the maximum penalty under the provision of the code . " I imposed the maximum penalty under the code to Shahid and reminded him of his responsibilities as a national captain which is to ensure that the match is played according to the laws of the game and in the spirit in which it is intended to be played , " said Madugalle . " Shahid , when pleading guilty , apologised and regretted his actions. " © AFP
