Rahul Dravid retirement ( Full Coverage ) Cricketers bid farewell to Dravid Bangalore , 2012/Mar/09 08 : 58 : 00 Text Size Former and present cricketers congratulated Rahul Dravid on his glorious career © Cricbuzz Former and current cricketers as well as prominent cricket writers took to Twitter and other media to wish Rahul Dravid after the batting legend announced his retirement on March 9th 2012 . There was and is only one Rahul Dravid. There can be no other. I will miss Rahul in the dressing room and out in the middle. I have shared the best moments with him. Our many century partnerships are testimony to the hours we spent together in the middle. For someone who has played 164 matches and over 13000 runs , no tribute can be enough. - Sachin Tendulkar I Was very lucky to play all the formet with my hero...many thanks for ur contribution to team karnataka and india.. We miss u rahul bhai ! ! - Vinay Kumar Rahul Dravid.well played.Thank u so much for ur outstanding contribution to the indian team.i salute u.The country salutes u.God bless - Vinod Kambli Wall for team but a shoulder for team mates. Impregnable for opposition , motivation fr us. That 's Rahul bhai. Got my ODI & Test cap frm him - Suresh Raina Extremely emotional to see my hero bid goodbye to cricket. Thank You for the memories. Words fail me. You 're a legend - Aakash Chopra Rahul Dravid retires.. The worlds most respected cricketer over the last 20 yrs.. LEGEND- Michael Vaughan Rahul Dravid-LEGEND ! ! Plain & simple.. congrats on an incredible career ! ! India WILL miss- Kevin Pietersen THE WALL of indian cricket a role model for me. A true gentleman and great motivator. We will miss you on the field Rahul bhai- Ajinkya Rahane Congrats on a Fantastic , Superb International Career ! The Great Legend Rahul Dravid ! ! The wall will be miss ! ! - Chris Gayle Indian cricket is going to miss the great Man Dravid,just heard abt it,have had the pleasure of playing with him from India Cements to India. Ca n't get a more model pro,with the equanimity of mind matched by few. World& Indian ckt is left poorer by your retirement - Murali Karthik He could have played for a couple of years more. He has been a great player for India- M Kaif Rahul Dravid - Knew the man behind the bat. Not often do you find a person as exceptional as his achievements- Sanjay Manjrekar A role model on & off the field.Thank you rahul bhai for what you have given 2 the indian cricket.The wall will be missed . True entertainer - Pragyan Ojha Rahul Dravid retires...cricket loses one of its finest batsmen , sport , one of its finest gentlemen. - Jeffrey Archer Congrats to Rahul Dravid on an amazing career ! You will be missed. Fantastic person and Cricketer ! India 's wall. - AB de Villiers Rahul Dravid one of the games treasures a man that stood tall as a player & character. Many congratulations on a Stella career. - Tom Moody Congratulations Rahul Dravid. Champion on and off the field , showed us all that sky is the limit with hard work , patience and discipline- Mahesh Bhupathi Rahul Dravid is one of the all time greats of the game. One of the top 5 batters I played against. Lara Sachin Ponting Kallis the other 4. - Alec Stewart Jam it was a pleasure & privilege to have playd with u and ur presence in the dressing room alwys added to our confidence. Will miss u lots. - Virender Sehwag Dravid , A purist , in this mad world of limited overs cricket with limited edition heroes , whose kind may not be seen again on the field ! - Rameez Raja Rahul Dravid- What a true legend of the game ! Think all bowlers around the world will be relieved ! ! - Luke Wright An honour to play against a legend like Rahul Dravid , another one of the Greats retires from cricket. Great man & v humble. Good 2know him - Azhar Mahmood Rahul Dravid 'The Wall ' will be missed. It was an honour having played in the team with him. Thank you sir. - R P Singh RAHUL DRAVID-legend....u will be missed big time...congratulations on a great career... - Parthiv Patel © Cricbuzz
