Sachin Tendulkar inducted into Bradman Hall of Fame 2014/Oct/29 09 : 21 : 00 Text Size Sachin Tendulkar added another feather to his cap on Wednesday when he was inducted as one of the latest honourees in the Bradman Foundation © Agencies Think of a cricket award , and Saching Tendulkar will most likely have his name on the recipient list. Now , the Master Blaster added another feather to his cap on Wednesday when he was inducted as one of the latest honourees in the Bradman Foundation. At a gala dinner held at the historic Sydney Cricket Ground , former Australian captain Steve Waugh was the other cricketer to enter the Bradman Hall of Fame alongside Tendulkar . Tendulkar 's appearance at the annual Bradman Foundation dinner is fitting as the late Aussie great once famously said that the Indian 's technique reminded him of his own. Tendulkar , who had the honour of meeting Bradman on his 90th birthday at his Adelaide home , was later listed in an all-time XI prepared by the batting genius himself . Recalling the meeting that took place in 1998 at Bradman 's Adelaide 's home , Tendulkar said both he and the other invitee , Shane Warne , were so daunted they could n't decide who should speak first to the legendary Aussie batsman . " I remember Warnie was with me in the car and we were discussing who was going to ask the first question , " Tendulkar told reporters here today . " I said , 'You are from Australia , so you should start'. And he was like , 'No , you 're a batsman , so you can relate to him much better than what I can ' , " he added . Tendulkar , 41 , enjoyed a good run at the SCG during his illustrious 24-year-long career , scoring three centuries in five Tests . " The SCG is my favourite ground. I have always maintained that. It brings back all the memories , " Tendulkar said as he spoke publicly in Australia for the first time in six years . " I was just outside in the car and I said it feels great to be back. It 's been a very social venue to me. Right back from 1991 , which was the first time I played here. " His unbeaten 241 not out in the 2003-04 series against the Aussies is widely regarded as one of the finest innings seen at the venue . " ( It 's ) just the feel of the ground. Whenever I walked in I felt I could go on and on batting. I just enjoyed the atmosphere , and the pavilion especially. It 's a fabulous pavilion with a lot of history. It is the heritage and the impact all the players have left on this ground . " Performing against Australia always gave me a lot of satisfaction because I knew if you perform against the leading side then everyone takes notice of your performance. It is a different kind of satisfaction. " Tendulkar said there was a strong mutual admiration between him and Bradman when they met 16 summers ago . " One thing was just to be able to meet the great man but also to know the funnier side of him. I asked him a question : 'What would you have averaged in today 's cricket ? ' He thought about it and said 'Maybe , 70'. The natural reaction was 'Why only 70 and not 99 ? ' He said , 'C'mon , that 's not bad for a 90-year-old man'. " © Cricbuzz
