Yuvraj Singh disappointed at not making it into Indian team Delhi , 2014/Oct/30 01 : 20 : 00 Text Size Yuvraj Singh has struggled to make his mark in recent times. © Getty All-rounder , Yuvraj Singh , on Wednesday said that he was disappointed at not making it into the Indian cricket team. After successfully fighting cancer , Yuvraj , made a brief return to the Indian team when he played Twenty20 matches , but he has been a pale shadow of himself on his comeback trail. He last played for India in a ODI in December 2013 . " Definitely , a comeback to the Indian team is a goal. It 's always disappointing when you do n't make it to the side. However , that said , the last two years have been patchy , up and down. Hopefully , things will change , and I will be picked again , otherwise life will be very depressing. I can only try and do my best , " the left-handed batsman told Wisden India . When asked if the thought of not being picked for India again ever crossed his mind , he said , " Of course , there is a possibility that I may never play for India again. I have considered that. However , there is also the possibility that I might play for India again , and as long as I believe that I can come back and I have it in me , I 'm going to keep pushing myself. " Yuvraj said that he along with other sidelined and struggling players like Harbhajan Singh , Virender Sehwag and Gautam Gambhir often talk about the good days . " We always talk about the time we spent playing for India. We all know that those were the most amazing years of our lives. However , life still goes on , even when you 're not in the team. You just have to be positive and keep working hard. " Yuvraj did not do much to stake claim in the national team , but he has still not given up . " I ca n't really speak about selection. What is the best opportunity that I have ? Duleep Trophy , the Ranji and whatever other games I can get. As I said , if I can make it to the squad , it will be a great story. It will be awesome to come back and play for India in a World Cup again. If it does n't happen , life goes on , and it will be hard to accept , but Ill have to accept it , " he concluded . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies )
