Sri Lanka tour of India , 2014 Shikhar Dhawan : Openers ' consistency a good sign for Team India Cuttack , 2014/Nov/03 05 : 14 : 00 Text Size Shikhar Dhawan also heaped praise on India 's bowlers. © BCCI Having shown his side that he can , once again , be a devastating opener and an asset for the side with his superb hundred against Sri Lanka in the opening ODI in Cuttack , Shikhar Dhawan said he feels India is fortunate to be able to call up 3 players to play as openers for the side in ODIs. Him apart , India have also used Ajinkya Rahane and Rohit Sharma at the top of the order and the results have , more often than not , been positive. Dhawan added that this will help in gaining much-needed consistency required at the top of the order , with ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 round the corner . " We are very fortunate that we three ( him , Rahane and Rohit ) are there with the Indian team , who can give the consistency. It 's a very good sign for the team that our openers are scoring runs consistently. It 's very important to have a strong base whenever batting first or chasing , " Dhawan said after the conclusion of the first one-dayer . However , the Delhi left-hander refused to be drawn into comparison between who was a better opening partner among Rohit and Rahane . " I really enjoyed batting with both of them ( Rahane and Rohit ) . Hopefully , they too enjoy batting with me. Both have their own styles. As far as my opening partner is concerned , it 's the team 's call and I ca n't answer that. I love batting with both of them. When myself and Rohit used to open , we used to do the same thing , " said Dhawan . Dhawan found his touch during the final leg of the England ODI series , got a half century against West Indies in the truncated home series and now reached the three-figure mark against Sri Lanka in the first ODI on Sunday . " When you play such a knock , the self confidence gets a big boost and involve yourself in such a big partnership , it 's a happy feeling , " Dhawan added . Even as the Indian bowlers had the luxury of defending a huge total of 363/5 , Dhawan was effusive in his praise for the manner in which pacers intimidated the opposition . " They bowled with lot of discipline and it was good to see Ishant taking four wickets in his comeback match. They bowled a really good line and length with great pace. I really appreciate the way they generated pace. " Dhawan said that it was n't easy for the batsmen as pacers worked up good speed . " It was not easy for the batsmen. Its a very good sign that India is producing good fast bowlers , we are fortunate to have bowlers clocking 145kph. It brings fear to the opposition batsmen. " On his century that came almost after a year , he said : " I wanted to get set and play the bowlers on merit. It 's a very good feeling. First match and we won by a big margin. It gives a lot of confidence to the team. It 's good to see openers scoring a two hundred-run partnership. " India had a watchful start with 43 from the first power play and Dhawan blamed the wicket . " At the start , it was seaming and swinging a bit. It was n't easy like the usual Indian wicket , that 's why we gave a bit of time and waited for the ball to get old before taking it forward , " he summed up . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies )
