Sachin Tendulkar Autobiography ( Full Coverage ) Sachin Tendulkar : Headlines like 'Endulkar ' hurt me deeply 2014/Nov/04 02 : 39 : 00 Text Size Few players were worried about their safety , says Sachin Tendulkar © Getty Sachin Tendulkar reveals how hurt he was to read some of the media reports in the aftermath of India 's disastrous 2007 World Cup campaign. In his new book , Playing it my way , Tendulkar says : " After we returned to India , the media followed me back home and it hurt when I heard my own people doubting the commitment of the players . The media had every right to criticise us for failing , but to say we were not focused on the job was not fair. We had failed to fulfil the expectations of the fans , but that did not mean we should be labelled traitors. At times , the reaction was surprisingly hostile and some of the players were worried about their safety. " Tendulkar 's own form during that period came in for a lot of scrutiny and the master batsman reveals that he was quite disturbed by what was being said about him . " Headlines like 'Endulkar ' hurt deeply. After 18 years in international cricket , it was tough to see things come to this and retirement crossed my mind . My family and friends like Sanjay Nayak did all they could to cheer me up and after a week I decided to do something about it. I started to do some running , to try to sweat the World Cup out of my head , " says Tendulkar in the book . Talking more about the World Cup , Tendulkar attacked Greg Chappell once more and even revealed that he had suggested to the BCCI that Chappell should not travel with the team to the 2007 World Cup . " I suggested to the BCCI that the best option would be to keep Greg back in India and not send him with the team to the World Cup , " Tendulkar told and added that senior players could take control of the team . Tendulkar also professed his dislike towards Chappell not standing up for his players . " I remember that every time India won , Greg could be seen leading the team to the hotel or into the team bus , but every time India lost he would thrust the players in front . In general John ( Wright ) and Gary ( Kirsten ) always preferred to stay in the background , but Greg liked to be prominent in the media , " says Tendulkar Citing an example to prove how Chappell was hated by the senior members of the squad , Tendulkar says : " Chappell seemed intent on dropping the older players and in the process damaged the harmony of the side. Once , he asked VVS Laxman to consider opening the batting. Laxman politely turned him down , saying he had tried opening in the first half of his career because he was confused , but now he was settled in the middle order . " Greg 's response stunned us all. He told Laxman he should be careful , because making a comeback at the age of 32 might not be easy . " In fact , I later found out that Greg had spoken to the BCCI about the need to remove the senior players , " the maestro writes . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) More stories from Sachin Tendulkar Autobiography
