Sunil Gavaskar hits out at Gurunath Meiyyapan , questions N Srinivasan 's silence in IPL spot-fixing issue New Delhi , 2014/Nov/18 22 : 40 : 00 Text Size Sunil Gavaskar ( in pic ) hit out at Gurunath Meiyyapan over his involvement in betting © Getty Indian cricket legend , Sunil Gavaskar , hit out at Gurunath Meiyyapan , son-in-law of International Cricket Council 's ( ICC ) president N. Srinivasan , over his involvement in betting and also questioned the Tamil Nadu strongman 's silence in the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) spot-fixing and betting issue . " The full force of the law must come down on Meiyyapan , " Gavaskar told India Today Group in Melbourne . Gavaskar said that Srinivasan needs to explain as to why he did not act against the players if he knew they were involved in fixing. " There are reports which say the Mudgal committee report has found that Srinivasan knew about betting , but did not do anything about it. Srinivasan should answer for why he did not act if he knew that a player was guilty , " Gavaskar said . Gavaskar was in Australia at the invitation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to attend a special reception at the Melbourne Cricket Ground ( MCG ) , which was hosted by Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbot . Several Indian and Australian cricketing legends such as Kapil Dev , VVS Laxman , Steve Waugh , Glenn McGrath , Allan Border and Jason Gillespie also attended the reception . Gavaskar said that there should be zero tolerance against match-fixing and betting and if any player is found guilty of having participated in wrong acts then , he should be jailed and his entire cricketing history deleted from the record books . " New Zealand has come up with a new law on betting which says that guilty players will be jailed. India should have the same law. " The former captain also suggested that the government should think about legalising betting in India . " A lot of betting happens through black money. However , if you open an official betting shop , Government will be able to increase its revenues. It 's like prohibition , if someone wants to bet illegally , they will. Government should think about legalising betting , " said Gavaskar . The cricket legend sought to draw a distinction between team owners who were found guilty of betting and players , saying that players should not be punished till the time it can be established that the owner of the team influenced the player . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies )
