First double centurion in ODI cricket Belinda Clark - Well before Sachin , Sehwag and Rohit Bengaluru , 2014/Nov/22 08 : 42 : 00 , by Bharath Ramaraj Text Size Picture of Belinda Clark batting during the Women 's Cricket World Cup Final against New Zealand. © Getty The Middle Income Group ground in Mumbai is surrounded by the blissful facade of the leafy ramble of trees swaying in the gentle breeze and at the time of sunset , the heavenly rays of the sun , streaked in clouds , acting as a blanket for the rustling trees. 17 years ago , in the backdrop of placid calmness , there was a World Cup game taking place between Australia and Denmark . Once Australia won the toss and Belinda Clark , their captain and opening batter , took guard , the bucolic settings of the ground was transformed into a hub of cut-and-thrust activity. Clark , with her sparkling bout of run-scoring , made the Danes feel the full weight of her meaty bat to send the hapless fielders on a leather hunt. The innings in many ways encapsulates Clark 's amazing appetite for runs throughout her career . Early steps towards a splendid career While growing up , she believed that cricket was restricted to playing in her backyard and wanted to take up tennis as a profession. " I had no idea girls could play cricket [ for Australia ] . Cricket was totally amateur when I played , so I studied or worked for my whole career , " Clark was quoted as saying by The Sydney Morning Herald . However , with resolute and confident strides , she was able to overcome the odds stacked against her and made her debut for Australia against India at Sydney in 1991. It is said that it was only when Clark fell ill in 1989 did she realise how much she loved the game of cricket and it made her to work that much harder with a single-minded focus to succeed . Century on Test debut and captaining Australia In Clark 's very first Test itself against the touring Indians , she reportedly showcased quickness of feet and hands to accrue a hundred. No wonder , she soon became an integral part of the Australian set-up. By 1993 , Clark under the captaincy of Lynn Larsen , played in her first World Cup ( a tournament that was hit by lack of funds so much so that Netherlands and England players were left to roll the pitch themselves ahead of their game ! ) held in England . For the next few years , Clark did n't exactly touch the state of a batting enlightenment that some expected her to. But by 1994 , she had earned another feather in her cap , as she was anointed as the captain of Australia . Clark 's luminous spread of run-scoring in 1997 World Cup It was in 1997 , when Clark finally started to leave behind a trail of memorable footprints with the willow. That year , runs flowed from her bat akin to a gigantic river rushing down a mountain. If at the start of the year she touched noteworthy crests with hundreds against New Zealand and Pakistan , then the World Cup held in India turned out to be the moment of crowning glory . Before the 1997 World Cup , Clark had never played in India. For a small group of cricket cognoscenti in the country , excitement ran high as they were about to watch a monarch of the women 's game for the first time . Unfortunately , Australia 's first game against Ireland was abandoned without a ball being bowled due to incessant rain. In the subsequent match against South Africa at Bangalore , she did essay a rousing innings of 93 not out. Yes , other than Kim Price and Cindy Eksteen , The Rainbow Nation did n't have bowlers of note , but Clark , certainly gave warning signals for other teams as to what was to come . One had to wait for Australia 's match against Denmark for Clark to add further lustre to her glorious career. Clark 's exploits sparkled in splendour , as she went on to become the first player to notch up a double century in ODIs and remained not out on 229. As very little is written about the match , it is toilsome to find information related to the game. Only after dusting off his old cricket magazines , was the writer able to find a few lines related to the match. By all accounts , Clark , with indefatigable stamina and energy ran between the wickets like a jack-rabbit to steal singles from under the very nose of Danes. It can be seen by the fact that despite scoring at a rapid rate of 147 , she sent the ball scurrying to the boundary boards only 22 times and did n't thwack a single six ! Of course , she was facing up to a modest attack. Janni Jonsson , who had done well in the 1993 World Cup , was missing from action. The only other bowler of any note was Susanne Neilsen. Denmark was basically a team made up of students and sisters . However , that does n't take away the fact that until Rohit Sharma scored 264 at Eden Gardens , it was Clark , who held the record for the highest individual score in ODIs. Intriguingly , on the same day , England 's Charlotte Edwards , at the tender age of 17 broke Lisa Keightley 's record of 156 not out set against Pakistan at Wesley Cricket Ground ( Melbourne ) in February 1997 by compiling 173 not out against Ireland. As destiny would have it , her record did n't stand for long . It was only in the final of the 1997 World Cup when I finally saw Clark brandish her willow for the first time. For the record , Australia beat New Zealand by five wickets to lift the coveted trophy and Clark herself composed a fine fifty consisting of a wide range of shots. In particular , a couple of imperious back-foot drives of Katrina Withers and Kathryn Ramel gladdened a connoisseur 's heart. There was no thunderous eruption from the blade but with needlepoint precision and unquestioned brilliance , Clark bisected the fielders , as it crossed the boundary ropes with a touch of sweetness attached to it. Around 10,000 fans in the stadium cheering their lungs out for both the teams made it a momentous experience . Clark walks into retirement life Under Clark 's able stewardship , Australia retained The Ashes in 2003 and won the World Cup in South Africa in 2005. However , by then , it seemed like Clark 's cricketing days were coming to an end. Australia 's tour of England in 2005 turned out to be the last time she played in the white flannels for her country. To make it worse for her , Australia lost The Ashes for the first time in 42 years. By then , those twinkling gemstones from her bat seemed like a distant memory . Clark adds more strings to her bow Since retiring from the game , Clark has become a successful administrator. Nowadays , she is a manager at Cricket Australia 's ( CA ) Centre of Excellence. In 2011 , she was inducted into ICC 's hall of fame. This year along with Mark Waugh , Clark was also inducted into Australia 's Cricket Hall of Fame . The only batswoman who can perhaps rival her in terms of class and permanence would be England 's Janette Brittin. Brittin , was a symbol technical excellence at the crease. Arguably , Clark 's batting was more enterprising. In short , most of her achievements were unparalleled and one can only garland her with lavish praise for being a great ambassador of women 's cricket . © Cricbuzz
