RIP Phillip Hughes ( Full Coverage ) Phil Hughes remains in critical condition , Sheffield Shield round called off Sydney , 2014/Nov/25 18 : 13 : 00 Text Size Phil Hughes sustained a head injury in the match against New South Wales © Australian opener , Phil Hughes , who was knocked out by a Sean Abbott bouncer in a freak incident at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Tuesday , remains in a critical condition . Dr Bruckner , who addressed the media said that the batsman was still in a critical condition. " Phillip 's condition is unchanged and he remains critical. " It was added that a further update will be provided should his condition change . Earlier , he underwent surgery and was in an induced coma in the St Vincent 's Hospital intensive care unit. Test captain , Michael Clarke , was one of the first to arrive at the hospital on Wednesday , resuming a vigil at his close friend 's bedside and comforting Hughes ' mother and sister . Up-and-coming bowler Sean Abbott , who made his one-day and Twenty20 debut for Australia in October , was seen cradling the injured player immediately after the incident . " It says a lot about Sean does n't it , " Cricket Australia chief James Sutherland said , calling it a " freak , freak accident " . " Sean will have all the support he needs around him. " CA also said that they would abandon the ongoing round of the Sheffield Shield games following the tragic incident . " We 've spoken to players and the ACA , and given how players across the country are feeling right now , its just not the day to be playing cricket and we understand that , " CA 's team performance manager Pat Howard said . " We are continuing to offer all players and match officials counselling and support at this difficult time. Phillip Hughes continues to receive the best possible medical care. The thoughts of his teammates and the wider cricket community are with Phillip and his family and friends , " Howard concluded . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) More stories from RIP Phillip Hughes
