RIP Phillip Hughes ( Full Coverage ) Phillip Hughes passes away at the age of 25 2014/Nov/26 22 : 47 : 00 Text Size Phil Hughes passed away at the age of 25. © Getty Australia batsman , Phillip Hughes , who suffered a fractured skull and catastrophic bleeding in his brain after being hit by a bouncer in a Sheffield Shield match , passed away as a result of the injuries , Cricket Australia ( CA ) said. On Tuesday , Hughes collapsed face-first to the ground after a Sean Abbott bouncer hit him at the base of the skull. He had to undergo an emergency surgery before being placed in an induced coma . Cricket Australia released the following statement from team doctor Peter Brukner , announcing the 25-year-old 's death : " It is my sad duty to inform you that a short time ago Phillip Hughes passed away. He never regained consciousness following his injury on Tuesday. He was not in pain before he passed and was surrounded by his family and close friends. " " As a cricket community we mourn his loss and extend our deepest sympathies to Phillips family and friends at this incredibly sad time. Cricket Australia kindly asks that the privacy of the Hughes family , players and staff be respected. " Hughes ' untimely death has sent shockwaves through the cricketing world. Test cricketers , Brad Haddin , Steven Smith , Shane Watson , David Warner , Nathan Lyon , Moises Henriques , Mitchell Starc and Daniel Smith were among a stream of personalities who visited Hughes ' bedside in the past few days. Australia captain , Michael Clarke has been an almost constant presence at his close friend 's side at St Vincent 's Hospital since the freak incident while Ricky Ponting , Simon Katich , Phil Jaques and Brett Lee also visited their former team-mate . News of Hughes ' death brought a fresh wave of tributes on social media , with past and present players conveying their shock and grief . Australia Prime Minister Tony Abbott described Hughes as " a young man living out his dreams " . " His death is a very sad day for cricket and a heartbreaking day for his family , " Abbott said in a statement. " What happened has touched millions of Australians. For a young life to be cut short playing our national game seems a shocking aberration. " The tragic announcement followed calls by former players for the Australian team to abandon the first Test of the four-match series against India next week . Questions about the response time of ambulances dispatched to the stadium have also been raised. The head of New South Wales Ambulance was to be called before the state health minister Jillian Skinner on Thursday after the ambulance authority issued conflicting statements about their response times . The arrival of the first ambulance took 15 minutes , NSW Ambulance clarified in a statement on Wednesday. The state 's median response time for the highest priority " life-threatening cases " was just under eight minutes in 2013-14 , according the authority 's statistics . © Cricbuzz
