India tour of Australia , 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Australia v India - The 10 greatest matches Bangalore , 2014/Dec/03 09 : 13 : 00 , by Pradeep Text Size While the Ashes remains the foremost trophy for the Australians , the Border Gavaskar Trophy is emerging as a major series to look forward to even though it lacks the political drama associated as in the case of any India v Pakistan match. But there 's a different charm to cricket when India and Australia are up against each other. For a long time , India was the 'Final Frontier ' for the men from Down Under. On the other hand , the Indians were invariably struggling on the 'fast paced bouncy ' tracks in Australia . Tigers at home , lambs abroad was the popular phrase used to describe the Indians on their previous overseas tours. Australia , who had not long ago been the reigning champions in Test Cricket now , are placed at Number Two with South Africa having taken the top spot . India with 96 points to their name and languishing at the sixth place will be wishing to make the best of this long tour of Australia , a series that consists of four Tests , a triangular series and ends with the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup. The likes of Virat Kohli and Cheteshwar Pujara will have their techniques tested to the limit , once again by the Australian pace battery. They were left badly bruised in England and ca n't afford yet another disaster in Australia . Over the years , the two teams have been involved in some close contests ; there have been heart-stopping moments , tense finishes and some drab draws. It 's a herculean task to pick out the best of those , but here 's what we feel have been the ten outstanding Tests between the two teams . Australia in India , December 1959 , Kanpur Alan Davidson took 12 wickets in the game but it was Jasubhai Patel ’ s 14 wicket match-haul that gave India a historic win. ( Hulton Archive ) © India 's first ever Test win against Australia ! It took India 10 Tests to achieve their first ever victory against Australia. Having been crushed in the first Test by an innings , India bounced back in superb fashion in Kanpur. It was n't as straightforward as it looked. Batting first , India were bowled out for just 152 , with Alan Davidson finishing with superb figures of 5/31. Jasubhai Patel , however , brought India back into the match. His figures of9/69 , the best by an Indian at that time helped limit Australia 's lead to 67 runs . Nari Contractor made a fine 74 in India 's second innings while Ramnath Kenny ( 51 ) and Bapu Nadkarni ( 46 ) made useful contributions to help India finish on 291 , a lead of 224 runs. Alan Davidson was once again too hot to handle. He finished with 7/93 , a match haul of12/124 . The target of 225 was always going to be tough for the Australians.The two off-break bowlers , Jasubhai Patel and Polly Umrigar , tore through the Australian batting and the visitors were bowled out for105 , losing by 119 runs. India had broken the Australian jinx . Australia in India , October 1964 , Mumbai Nawab of Pataudi Jr was the star for India. © Agencies Norm O ' Neill went down with stomach pain after the start of the match and could n't take any further part leaving the visitors a player short. The 10-man Australian team led by Bobby Simpson though nearly pulled out a surprise win over the Indians . In a high scoring encounter , India gained a 21-run lead after bowling Australia out for 320 in their first innings. Undeterred by the Indian spinners , Australia rattled up 274 in their second innings , setting India a fourth innings target of 254. BS Chandrashekhar added 4 more wickets to his similar effort in the first innings . At 122/6 , the chase seemed to be all but over for the hosts. Nawab of Pataudi Jr , who had top-scored with 86 in India 's first innings,rose to the occasion with yet another half-century. He was well supported by Vijay Manjrekar , batting lower down the order at 8 and Chandu Borde , batting at 9. India eventually got home with two wickets to spare . India in Australia , December 1977 , Brisbane Sunil Gavaskar 's brilliant ton in the second innings went in vain © As many as six Australians made their Test debut in this encounter. One of those , Peter Toohey top scored with 82 as India bundled out the hosts on a damp pitch for a partly 166. Bishen Singh Bedi was the wrecker-in-chief , finishing with 5/55. The Indian batsmen threw away the advantage , getting bowled out for 153. Barring Dilip Vengsarkar ( 48 ) and GR Vishwanath ( 45 ) , none of the other batsmen made any sort of impression . Australia 's second innings effort was largely built on skipper,Bob Simpson ( 89 ) and the battling efforts of the tail-enders. They recovered from various stages , from a wobbly 7/3 and from a less than comfortable 246/8 to eventually finish on 327 all-out. Needing 341for victory , India were always on the back-foot. Sunil Gavaskar made a magnificent 113 and Syed Kirmani scored 55 , there were some other useful contributions , but India were dismissed for 324 , just 16 runs shy of what would have been a superb victory . If the Test at Brisbane was a nail-biter , the next match at the WACA , Perth , turned out to be another humdinger. In the end,Australia just about edged the Test by 2 wickets , after chasing down342 in the fourth innings of the match . Australia in India , September 1986 , Chennai Dean Jones played a near unforgettable knock in near unforgiving condition. © Agencies A spectacular Test match ended in a thrilling tie with scores level when the final Indian wicket fell. Dean Jones endured terrible physical conditions to make a splendid 210. David Boon and Allan Border made centuries as well and Australia ended up with an imposing score of 574/7 decl. With India unable to make much of a head through,the match seemed to be heading towards an easy Australian victory with the score line reading 245/7. Kapil Dev led the riposte , making an aggressive 119 and shepherded the tail superbly , taking India to a respectable 397 all-out , still trailing by 177 runs . With time at a premium , Australia declared their second innings closed at 170/5 , setting India a target of 348 runs from 87 overs.Sunil Gavaskar led the chase with a fine 90 and the rest of the batsmen chipped in usefully as India threatened to chase down the target. At one stage , India needed 18 runs from the final five overs with 3 wickets in hand. When Chetan Sharma and Kiran More were dismissed off consecutive deliveries , it seemed that an Australian win was imminent . Ravi Shastri had other plans though as he single-handedly took India closer and tied the scores with three deliveries remaining. However , Greg Matthews trapped Maninder Singh in front , and the match had finished in a tie , only for the second time in 1052 Tests . India in Australia , January 1992 , Adelaide Azhar played one of the best innings by an Indian in Australia. © Agencies Another thrilling chase , and once again India finished second best. Trailing 2-0 and having seen their chances of a victory at Sydney halted by bad light. India needed to win at Adelaide Oval.They started off promisingly , restricting Australia to 145. However,the hosts hit back and reduced the visitors to 70/6. Even though the lower order took charge and helped India post 225 , a lead of 80 runs,the momentum was more or less lost . In the Second Innings , Mark Taylor ( 100 ) and David Boon ( 135 ) added 221 runs for the second wicket and Australia were further boosted by an unbeaten 91 by skipper , Allan Border , as they finished on 451 , gaining an overall lead of 371 runs. Mohammad Azharuddin then played one of the finest ever Test innings in Australia , his cuts and drives were a treat to watch. Together with Manoj Prabhakar , he took India to 89 shy of victory before being dismissed for a spectacular106. That ended India 's hopes of a victory and they were eventually dismissed for 333 , just 38 runs short . Australia in India , October 1996 , Delhi Sachin Tendulkar with the ideal gift in his first Test as India 's captain. © Agencies With India v Australia turning out to be a cracker of a contest,the two boards got together to rename the Test series as the Border-Gavaskar Trophy. a one-off Test would be played at the Ferozeshah Kotla in Delhi to mark its beginning. As a contest , the first ever BG trophy match never rose to great heights . India took complete control from the moment Australia opted to bat. They were bundled out for just 182 with Anil Kumble grabbing four wickets. Nayan Mongia made a patient 152 , his only Test ton , as India gained a 179-run advantage after the first innings. Kumble added five more wickets in Australia 's second innings. The tourists ' were bowled out for just 234 with only Steve Waugh showing some fight . India rattled off the target of 56 and gave skipper , Sachin Tendulkar , the ideal gift in his first Test as India 's captain . Australia in India , March 1998 , Chennai Sachin 's master plan against Shane Warne was a complete hit. © For the record , India beat Australia by a whopping margin of 179runs. But the match will be forever remembered for the epic duel between Sachin Tendulkar and Shane Warne at the Chepauk dust bowl.The Indian master prepared for the series by asking Laxman Sivaramakrishnan to help him out by bowling in the rough outside the leg-stump to a right-handed batsman. He then went on to score a double hundred in Australia 's practice match against Ranji champions , Mumbai . Tendulkar failed in the first innings , getting out while attempting an ambitious lofted drive off Warne , for 4. In the second innings , he came out prepared and launched a spectacular onslaught against the blonde leg-spinner. He repeatedly drove him through cover and point region , and when Warne switched into a negative line of attack , took him apart with some towering sixes over mid-wicket.Tendulkar had set the mark early in the series and Warne never looked the same bowler again , at least against the Indians . Australia in India , March 2001 , Kolkata 2001 , Kolkata - The match that saw it all. © Perhaps , one of the best ever series in the history of Test cricket , the 'final frontier ' remained unconquered for Steve Waugh and his men. Mid-way through the second Test in Kolkata , it looked like Australia was all set to continue with their dominance. Having thrashed India inside three days in Mumbai , they looked all set to repeat the dose in Kolkata , having forced Sourav Ganguly 's men to follow-on . VVS Laxman , who had made a fine 59 in the first innings , was promoted to number three in the batting order , ahead of the struggling Rahul Dravid. This move seemed to have spurred the fierce competitive nature in both batsmen. Joining forces with India at232/4 , still trailing by 42 runs , the two batsmen batted out day three , batted through the entire length on day 4 , and when finally Laxman was dismissed for a personal best score of 281 , the partnership had yielded 376 runs , a record stand for India. Dravid soon went for 180 and India declared with a lead of 383 runs. The batsmen had set the match up and Harbhajan Singh took the onus to deliver the victory. The off-spinner had earlier taken 7/123 in the first innings ( including a hat-trick ) and added another six wickets in the second innings. He finished with a match haul of 13/196 and India had snapped the 16-match winning streak of Steve Waugh &Co . If Kolkata was a dream to be cherished , the next Test at Chennai got India the famous series triumph. In a match where the fortunes swung from one extreme to the other , India held on to complete a two-wicket victory. Harbhajan Singh finished with sensational figures15/217 and it was only fitting that he hit the winning runs . India in Australia , December 2003 , Adelaide Rahul Dravid en route to conquering Adelaide © Getty The confidence gained during the 2001 series in India spilled over when India visited Australia for a four-Test series in 2003-04. After dominating in a rain hit Brisbane Test , India scripted a memorable victory at Adelaide Oval. Batting first Australia was indebted to Ricky Ponting 's superb 242 as they piled up a massive 556 on the board . India 's chase was rocked early and at 85/4 , follow-on loomed large. The two heroes of Kolkata joined forces once again and were involved in a 303-run stand for the fifth wicket. The roles were reversed this time. Dravid was the enforcer while Laxman played second fiddle. When Dravid was the last man dismissed , for a fluent,233 , India had reached 523 , trailing by just 33 runs. Ajit Agarkar then pulled out a magnificent spell , his 6/41 instrumental in restricting Australia to 196 all-out . Dravid once again took control of the chase and remained unbeaten on 70 when India went past the target to gain a 1-0 series lead. The new era , which had begun during the home series in 2001 , was now firmly set in saddle . India in Australia , January 2008 , Perth India bowlers were in top form to help their side storm to victory. © Getty Going into the Test , India were in danger of losing the plot completely. The Sydney shenanigans notwithstanding , India had no business to lose three wickets to the gentle spin of Michael Clarke. With their pride hurt and needing to win at Perth to keep the series alive , Anil Kumble 's men put in a champagne performance . Rahul Dravid made 93 , Sachin Tendulkar chipped in with 71 but India were still restricted to just 330. The bowlers came to the fore , with each of the four specialist bowlers , taking at least 2 wickets. Andrew Symonds and Adam Gilchrist added 102 runs for the sixth wicket but Australia were bundled out for just 212 , conceding a first innings lead of 118 runs . Laxman led India 's fight in the second innings. His gritty 79 helped the visitors put up 294 in their second innings. Chasing 413 for an improbable victory , Michael Clarke made 81 and Mitchell Johnson chipped in with 50 , but the hosts were bundled out for 340 to give India a famous win . © Cricbuzz
