India tour of Australia , 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) MS Dhoni rues umpiring decisions that cost India Brisbane ( Australia ) , 2014/Dec/20 02 : 45 : 00 Text Size Ashwin was unlucky to be given out on the fourth day of the Gabba Test © Getty India 's captain , Mahendra Singh Dhoni , says the 50-50 decisions are not going their way after his team fell behind 2-0 in the series against Australia at the Gabba on Saturday . The tourists , who are against using the decision referral system ( DRS ) in the four-match series , had another contentious umpire 's call with the dismissal of Ravichandran Ashwin in India 's second innings . Ashwin was given out caught behind off Mitchell Starc for 19 even though replays showed the ball hitting the top of his pads . India were blown away by Mitchell Johnson 's morning spell of three for 10 off 11 balls as they went down by four wickets to the Australians in the second Gabba Test . Dhoni stoutly defended India 's reluctance to use technology to aid in umpire 's decision-making , but said that his team were getting more bad calls than Australia in the series . " There 's a lot of 50-50 decisions that are not going in our favour , " he said . " We 're on the receiving end more often than not. What happens in DRS , even if the DRS is around , those ( contentious ) decisions wo n't go in our favour. DRS is used often to justify the decision that 's given by the umpire. What 's important is to use DRS as a way of giving the right decision irrespective of if the umpire has given it out or not out. There are a lot of ways to use DRS. This is something that needs to be put in a specific way. You 're adding too many variables to the game. " Dhoni said the level of umpiring in the series , with South African Marais Erasmus and Englishman Ian Gould officiating in the first two Tests , could be better . " It can improve. There have been quite a few 50-50 calls where we have been on the receiving end , " he said , while pointing out the difficulties the umpires are under during a five-day Test match . © AFP
