Shane Warne Compares Himself With Suits ' On-Screen Womaniser Shane Warne Compares Himself With Suits ' On-Screen Womaniser Shane Warne , in a tweet , compared himself with Harvey Specter - a dashing , cunning corporate lawyer who plays with women 's emotions in a TV show called Suits . Last updated on Wednesday , 22 October , 2014 20 : 15 IST Total Shares File photo of Shane Warne and Liz Hurley . © Twitter Australian spin wizard Shane Warne has been linked with a long-list of women over the years. By his own admission now , the 45-year-old feels he is a womaniser - much like television character Harvey Specter in the immensely popular show 'Suits.' In a tweet in which he compared Australian cricketers to characters of Suits , Warne likens himself with Specter - played by Gabriel Macht , a suave corporate lawyer , who toys with feelings of women in the show . Aust cricket team and " Suits " Louis Litt - Merv Hughes Mike Ross - Mix between @ MClarke23 & Tim May Harvey Spector - me ! ! ! # suits — Shane Warne ( @ ShaneWarne ) October 21 , 2014 While Specter has a huge fan following for his portrayal of a cunning yet sophisticated New York lawyer , Warne too has a long list of admirers. Regarded as one of the best cricketers ever , he announced his retirement in 2006 after taking 708 Test and 293 ODI wickets. While his on-field achievements have made several headlines , Warne has even hogged the limelight courtesy his high-profile life off the field . Father of three children , Warne was married to Simone Callahan but the two parted ways after allegations of an affair broke out during the 2005 England tour. While several tabloids reported a few unconfirmed affairs since his divorce , Warne officially admitted being in a relationship in 2010 when he met actress Elizabeth Hurley. This too did not work out after the two called it quits - apparently as Warne failed to agree to marriage . There were even unconfirmed reports that Warne could get back with his former wife Callahan but the former cricketer shot down the speculations . Nonetheless , Warne has had a colourful life , with members of the opposite gender adding cheery hues to his tale . Story first published on : Wednesday , 22 October 2014 19 : 01 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
