RIP Phillip Hughes ( Full Coverage ) Steve Smith : Joe Burns will bat at No.6 in the 3rd Test against India Melbourne , 2014/Dec/24 22 : 50 : 00 Text Size Steve Smith is confident that Joe Burns will make his mark in the third Test. © Getty Australia have announced their playing eleven for the third Test against India at the MCG , starting from December 26. On expected lines , Josh Hazlewood has been picked for the third game after he showcased the ability to extract pace and bounce in the second Test played at The Gabba . The 25-year-old from Queensland , Joe Burns , will be making his Test debut and is expected to bat at No.6. Burns has impressive numbers to his credit as he averages 42.54 after playing 45 First-Class games. Australian captain , Steven Smith , on his part said : " Joe Burns gets his opportunity on Boxing Day and it 's going to be a very special week for him. If you 're batting in the top-order in state cricket , you can bat anywhere in the Australian line-up. I just think that [ starting at six ] is the best way to go about it. Shane Watson is best suited in the top three and Joe Burns is going to slot in at six , and hopefully , do a job for us there. " David Warner and Shaun Marsh , meanwhile have been reported to have sufficiently recovered from their niggles and were declared fit for the Boxing Day Test. Smith was also confident that Watson had recovered completely after he was struck on the head by a vicious James Pattinson bouncer during Australia 's practice session at MCG on Tuesday . " Watto 's [ Watson ] okay. He was a little bit shaken up with the hit the other day , but he trained well yesterday and he 's going well so I 'm sure he 'll be fine. I 've just got to manage him right. If we 've got to go in to bat , I 've got to make sure he has n't bowled too many overs at the end there so he 's fresh when he gets out there to bat. That 's the most important thing to me. I certainly think he 's a top-three batsman , " he said . Australia v India , 3rd Test , MCG : Preview Australia will be buoyed by the return of their key seamer , Ryan Harris , who will replace Mitchell Starc. The left-arm pacer put up a disappointing show in the second Test at The Gabba. However , Smith said that there is still a window of opportunity for Starc to make a comeback and play in the ongoing Test series . " He 'll go back and play a bit of Big Bash and keep his loads up , " Smith said. " You never know [ when his next opportunity may come ] . Three back-to-back Test matches is pretty heavy on our fast bowlers so we might see him back in the team next week. " The speculation around the mood inside India 's dressing room became a subject of ridicule for Smith , who said the home team does not need to sledge the tourists as they are busy " whingeing among themselves " . " We do n't need to sledge or talk too much. At the moment the Indians are doing it themselves. Among their group , they 're doing a lot of whingeing and complaining among themselves. They 're doing it all for us. Hopefully that can hinder them this week , " Smith said . " For us it 's just about going out there and doing the same thing all the time. If they want to get on with that in the dressing room , that 's up to them. We 'll just keep doing the same thing we 've been doing and hopefully we 'll get more of the same results. Four-nil would be nice , but you got to take each game as it comes , " he added . It will be his first Boxing Day Test as captain but Smith is not too daunted by the task at hand. However , he might need to be extra careful with the over-rates or risk getting suspended for the Sydney Test . " I think we need to hustle through the overs a little bit more. It was obviously a tough week last week as it was extremely hot in Brisbane. Nathan Lyon will be bowling a lot more for us this match. It 's going to be exciting. Every time you walk out here in a Boxing Day Test match it 's an amazing feeling. To lead this side , it 's going to be an exciting week , " Smith said . Australia XI for Boxing Day Test : David Warner , Chris Rogers , Shane Watson , Steven Smith , Shaun Marsh , Joe Burns , Brad Haddin , Mitchell Johnson , Ryan Harris , Nathan Lyon and Josh Hazlewood . © Cricbuzz
