Sourav Ganguly : MS Dhoni maybe running out of time as India Test captain 2014/Dec/27 23 : 55 : 00 Text Size © When it comes to captaincy and Indian cricket , one can not disagree much with Sourav Ganguly. The former India captain has been following the Indian side in Australia quite closely , and soon after India 's hammering on the first two days in the third Test at Melbourne , Ganguly said he felt that MS Dhoni has been struggling for a while as the Indian captain and that he is running out of time . Ganguly , who has been an expert commentator in the ongoing Test series between India and Australia , termed Dhoni 's record as an ODI captain has been exceptional but said the veteran wicketkeeper-batsman has been struggling for some time as the skipper at the five-day format . " It 's not just these two matches , it 's for a while now ( that Dhoni has struggled ) . He just has not really got the team going at Test match level. That 's up to the selectors but he has had a lot of time as captain , close to 60 Test matches. I think he has had a lot of time. I think Dhoni is a good captain. The record he has in one-day cricket , he is a good captain. But in Test conditions overseas , it has just fallen away a bit. This series is not over yet so maybe we can talk differently at the end of this series. Hopefully , he can reinvent himself and find a way to lead this team forward , " he added . Ganguly spoke highly of combative vice-captain Virat Kohli , whom he termed as the " future " of Indian cricket . " I think he ( Kohli ) is the future. He will be captain of India. You need positivity. You need positive captains. MS will captain at the World Cup , then we 'll have to see what happens after that , " the former left-handed batsman said. " I like his ( Kohli 's ) passion. You 've got to have passion. It should mean something to you , any job you do. I like him , I like what I see , " he was quoted as saying in Daily Telegraph . Dhoni , 33 , has played 90 Tests , and Ganguly said that he should continue to play on under Kohli if a captaincy change was decided upon . " Absolutely. When Sachin finished as Test captain , he played under me. When I finished as Test captain , I played under Dravid. Dravid played under MS. Ricky Ponting played under Michael Clarke. I do not think that 's a problem. As you long as you keep performing , captaincy is just one role. Your major role should be to contribute to the team , " he said . © Cricbuzz
