India tour of Australia , 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) India will find it hard to replace MS Dhoni : Michael Clarke 2015/Jan/03 10 : 14 : 00 Text Size I will be taking my Harley for Dhoni to take a spin on it , says Clarke. © AFP Michael Clarke reckons that India will find it hard to replace someone like MS Dhoni , who retired from Tests following the Melbourne Test against Australia. In his column for FOXSports , Clarke was full of praise and admiration for the way Dhoni handled the responsibility of being the India captain . " I ca n't imagine there would be many jobs in international sport tougher than being the captain of India 's cricket team , " wrote Clarke and adds , " How Dhoni has managed to hold down the captaincy while playing all three forms of the game AND wicketkeeping is beyond me. He 's done a wonderful job and I think the hole he has left in the Test team will be hard to fill. " Clarke also shared a bit about his rapport with MS Dhoni and bonding over bikes. " I 've had quite a few chats with MS over the years , and nearly all of them have been about motorbikes. I love them , but not quite with the same devotion he does. I 'm catching up with him at a Spartan BBQ on Sunday and I 'll be riding my Harley there so he can take it for a spin , " he wrote . Australia will take on India in the fourth and final Test of the series at the Sydney Cricket Ground on January 6. It was on this ground that Phil Hughes was struck the fatal blow a few weeks ago and Clarke feels that it will be an emotional affair when Australia step on the ground again . " Phillip Hughes ' family will be at the game and I will be spending my time with them when I 'm not in the commentary box. They have shown incredible strength over the last couple of months and it will be great to see them back out at the ground where they watched their son and brother score so many runs for NSW , South Australia and Australia . " I 'm sure it will be tough for some of the boys coming back to the ground where the tragedy occurred a month and a half ago. But Phillip would want us to play on and it 's important the Aussie boys do so to honour his memory , " wrote Clarke , who will be at the ground as a commentator for Channel Nine . Clarke is under rehabilitation after undergoing a hamstring surgery and is confident that he will get fit in time for the World Cup in Australia and New Zealand . " As for me , I 'm a week ahead of schedule in my rehab from hamstring surgery. I 've already completed three running sessions and am back riding the bike. I 'm still looking at being fit by the early stages of the World Cup but I 'll ultimately be guided by our medical team , " he added . © Cricbuzz
