India tour of Australia , 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Mitchell Johnson ruled out of SCG Test against India Sydney , 2015/Jan/03 16 : 51 : 00 Text Size Mitchell Johnson has been ruled out of the fourth and final Test against India. © AFP Australia pace spearhead , Mitchell Johnson , has been ruled out of the fourth and final Test against India in Sydney , starting on 6th January , Cricket Australia said. Johnson had complained of hamstring soreness and the Australian team management decided not to take any chances , keeping the upcoming ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 in mind . " Mitchell had some right hamstring soreness during the Boxing Day Test and we have been closely monitoring his recovery since that match , but feel he has not fully recovered. As such , he will not play in the upcoming Sydney Test match. We expect him to recover in time to play a part in the upcoming tri-series against England and India , " Cricket Australia physiotherapist , Alex Kountouris , said . Johnson was not present when the Steve-Smith-led side attended a training session at SCG on Saturday , 3rd January 2015. The left-arm pacer , who has taken 13 wickets in 122.2 overs at an average of just over 35 , had mentioned after the third Test that he would request for a lighter workload. Johnson bowled a total of 38 overs on a flat track in Adelaide and 45.3 overs in Melbourne. Australia did not used the left-arm quick in short bursts like they did during the 5-0 whitewash of England as well as the series victory in South Africa . Coach , Darren Lehmann , said the team management did not want to risk playing Johnson at SCG as he was an integral part of Australia 's plans for the upcoming tri-series and the World Cup. " Mitchell is an important part of our plans for the remainder of our summer and we want him 100 % right so wo n't be taking any risks with him. We believe it is best for Mitchell to take this opportunity to freshen up and get his body fully fit ahead of the tri-series. " Mitchell Starc or Peter Siddle are possible replacements for Johnson. Starc , a like-for-like replacement for the left-arm pacer , did not do well with the ball when he was included in the eleven for the second Test in Brisbane. The 24-year-old said he is ready and is eager to make amends. " It depends on the fitness levels of other blokes and how they pulled up from last week. I 'll always prepare to play , and I feel like the ball 's coming out well from the last two BBL games , I 'll keep doing the same and preparing to go. It comes back to any cricket that I play , to keep taking wickets and preparing the best I can. " © Cricbuzz
