India tour of Australia , 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Shane Watson is still crucial for us : Chris Rogers 2015/Jan/04 07 : 29 : 00 Text Size Watson 's probably overly harsh on himself at times : Chris Rogers © Getty Shane Watson has n't had the best of series so far. The Australian all-rounder has been guilty of throwing away starts and has the lone fifty to show for his efforts against the visiting Indian side. With the ball , too , Watson has not really been a constant thorn in the flesh for India. Chris Rogers , the Australian opener , however , feels Watson has set really high standards for himself and the entire team wants to see him do well in Sydney . " He 's an interesting character , he does put a lot of pressure on himself and he 's desperate to do well. He 's probably overly harsh on himself at times , " Rogers was quoted as saying by dailytelegraph.com.au . Rogers said he still thinks Watson plays an important role in the Australian team , and knowing that playing at the Sydney Cricket Ground ( SCG ) will be emotional for Watson , the entire team is keen for their all-rounder to find form . " We do n't think he 's just a passenger. I know he gets a lot of criticism but he 's still crucial to us. This week is going to be interesting for him because it 's going to be an emotional time , but I think everyone in the side is desperate to see him do well , " added Rogers . The 33-year-old has failed to hit the three figure mark in Tests for over a year now , and with questions regarding his spot in the side rising with every failure , Watson has very little time to turn his form around . Another player struggling for consistency while playing for Australia is Mitchell Starc , and the pacer might get another chance to prove his worth after Mitchell Johnson was ruled out with a hamstring injury. Rogers was hopeful that Starc can have the same impact that Johnson does , adding that in the last game Starc might not have known what his exact role was and hence struggled to create problems for the opposition . " He is a strike bowler , so hopefully , he can take up that mantle that Johnson has , " opener Chris Rogers was quoted as saying by the Sydney Morning Herald Sunday . " Maybe , in previous games , when they 've ( Johnson and Starc ) played together , it 's been a bit of a difficult thing for Starc because he has n't quite known what his role has been. So if he does get that opportunity , he will know exactly what he needs to do. But , in saying that , I would n't mind seeing Sidds ( Peter Siddle ) play , I 'm a big fan and a fellow Victorian , so that would be nice as well. " Starc was dropped from the playing 11 for the third Test in Melbourne and right-armer Ryan Harris was drafted into the side. Starc has struggled to hold on to a spot in the side and was recently criticised by Shane Warne for being " a bit nice , soft and easy " . " He 's a pretty quiet bloke , he tends to keep to himself a little bit , " Rogers said. " But I think those comments will sting him a little bit , but also I think they 'd inspire him and if Warney is saying that , you 're forced to listen. So I guess it 's all about how he responds so hopefully if he gets that opportunity he makes the most of it. " Rogers also has revealed that the Sydney Test , that starts from Tuesday , will be his last in Australia , but added that he would still like to keep playing till the away Ashes , later this year. Rogers has looked in solid form , helping his side 's cause with four fifties on the trot against India . " You never say never , but I kind of looked at the future and thought the England series and what England has meant for me would be a nice way to finish. So hopefully I can get through to the Ashes. But , if this is the last ( Test in Australia ) then it 's definitely not the worst one to go out on , " Rogers told reporters . The 37-year-old said having played cricket consistently for the past two decades has taken its toll . " I think you get to a point where touring can be quite difficult. Playing a lot of cricket can kind of get to you a little bit in the end , so I 'm looking forward to maybe new challenges as well , but they can wait for the moment. I 've got a few options. Cricket 's been my life for the last 20 years or whatever , so possibly staying involved in the game. Maybe even take some time off , you never know. I 've been pretty non-stop for a long time now so we 'll just wait and see , " he summed up . © Cricbuzz
