India tour of Australia , 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Mitchell Starc replaces Mitchell Johnson for fourth Test against India Sydney , 2015/Jan/04 19 : 44 : 00 Text Size Mitchell Starc has been named Mitchell Johnson 's replacement for the fourth Test in Sydney. © Getty Mitchell Starc has replaced Mitchell Johnson in the Australian eleven for the Sydney Test against India , which is the only change in the home-team line-up for the fourth and final Test which begins on 6th January . Johnson was ruled out of the Sydney game after he complained of a right hamstring soreness. Australia decided to rest him for the match , not wanting to take any chances with their pace spearhead ahead of the ODI tri-series involving India and England , and the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 . Australia captain , Steve Smith , who announced the eleven in a media conference a day before the fourth Test , admitted that Johnson would have " probably " played in Sydney had the series been alive. " He 's got a little hamstring strain. I think there 's no secret there 's a pretty big summer coming up. We want him to be fresh for the one-dayers and World Cup coming up. " The 24-year-old Starc , who was left out after a mediocre performance in Brisbane Test , has done well in the Big Bash League bowling with a lot of fire and regularly reaching speeds of 150kph. Smith is hopeful that Starc can extend his T20 form into the fourth Test against India. " I 'm sure he 's looking forward to playing out here in front of his home ground at the SCG. I think having one left-hander is good for us. " " The way we 've seen Mitch go back into the Big Bash , it looks like he 's bowled exceptionally quick. We 're looking for hopefully for more of the same he 's produced in the Big Bash this week. If he sustains that for long periods and if he keeps that type of pace up and sustain it the whole day , he 's going to be an extremely amazing bowler , " Smith added . Smith also confirmed that Shane Watson , who suffered a bout of stomach illness , has recovered and is fit for the fourth Commonwealth Bank Pink Test at the SCG . Australia XI for the fourth Test : David Warner , Chris Rogers , Shane Watson , Steven Smith , Shaun Marsh , Joe Burns , Brad Haddin , Ryan Harris , Mitchell Starc , Nathan Lyon , Josh Hazlewood . © Cricbuzz
