India tour of Australia , 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Virat Kohli vows India will play positively under his leadership Sydney , 2015/Jan/04 22 : 48 : 00 Text Size Virat Kohli takes over from MS Dhoni as full-time skipper of the Indian Test team. © AFP New India skipper , Virat Kohli , says he will encourage his team to play positively and not back down against Australia in the final Test in Sydney , which begins on 6th January. Kohli has been thrust into the captaincy role following the shock Test retirement of Mahendra Singh Dhoni after last week 's drawn third Test in Melbourne. India 's premier batsman , Kohli , said the visitors will continue to stand up to the Australians , who have already reclaimed the Border-Gavaskar Trophy with an unassailable 2-0 lead in the four-match series . " It 's important for the players to know that we need to be in a positive frame of mind , a line does n't need to be crossed , " Kohli told reporters on Monday. " But we are not here to back down from any sort of confrontation or any sort of battle. You will still see positive cricket and the same aggressive intent. " Kohli , who led India in the first Test in Adelaide while Dhoni was recovering from a fractured thumb , has been his side 's leading batsman in the series , averaging 83.16 with three centuries and a fifty. Kohli has also been at the forefront of on-field confrontations with Australian players , notably Mitchell Johnson , Brad Haddin and David Warner , and his style of leadership will be under scrutiny in the wake of Dhoni 's sudden exit . " We were all taken aback by his decision because it was so sudden , " Kohli said of Dhoni 's retirement. " We had no clue. We never saw it coming , so it was pretty shocking. There 's so much to learn from him , especially in tough situations : his composure , his decision-making at important times. These are the things which are priceless. Any captain would love to have them. I hope I can be as calm as him , but everyone has different styles. " The young skipper also acknowledged the challenges that come with being India captain and said that he would approach the role as calmly as he can. " I know the amount of pressure and expectations that come with the job. But , I also know that as a captain , you are only as good or bad as your team plays. I love my hair and I do n't want to lose them. So I will try not to take too much stress , " he added . Kohli said since the Melbourne Test he has been thinking about areas to improve the India team , who have won only one of their last 22 Tests overseas and have been successful in only one of their 10 Tests at the Sydney Cricket Ground . " There were quite a few things that I sat down and analysed in Adelaide that can be improved on and I 've thought about them in the past few days , " Kohli said. " What are the things that I can correct from Adelaide , the mistakes I made in that game ? Hopefully , I 'll get those right and try to make the right decisions in every situation out there in the middle. " The new skipper was however quick to defend his fast bowling unit , that has copped severe criticism in the recent past. " They ( bowlers ) are striving for that consistency. They showed that in the second innings of the MCG Test and they know it can be done. I was really excited to see what they did there and hope they can maintain it in the future as well. Sometimes , we are too harsh on our bowlers. When they get hit , it is bad bowling but when we hit the opposition bowlers , that is good batting. I have complete faith in my bowlers. I know they can win us Test matches by taking 20 wickets , " he summed up . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) More stories from India tour of Australia , 2014-15
