India tour of Australia , 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Rahul Dravid : Ajinkya Rahane 's confidence speaks volumes New Delhi , 2015/Jan/07 02 : 29 : 00 Text Size Ajinkya Rahane , 26 , has settled into the Test team ’ s middle order after a poor debut against Australia in March 2013. © Getty Ajinkya Rahane 's successful 2014 in Test cricket , which has elevated him to the status of the Indian teams middle-order bedrock , along with Virat Kohli , is largely due to the Mumbai batsman 's self belief and ability to stay composed , according to Rahul Dravid . " He has now developed a real belief in his game and ability , " Dravid told ESPNcricinfo 's online magazine , The Cricket Monthly. " He does not feel the need to show it off or to talk about it , which is in some ways a very good thing. But I can see there is a confidence. Like every batsman , he will have certain doubts and fears , but I have seen that over the last few years , he knows he has the game and the ability to be able to answer a lot of the questions that are going to be posed to him. " Rahane , 26 , has settled into the Test teams middle order after a poor debut against Australia in March 2013 , and currently averages 44.60 from 14 matches. Since making 7 and 1 in Delhi on debut , Rahane has scored smooth centuries in Wellington , at Lords and at the MCG apart from 51 * and 96 in his third Test , against South Africa in Durban in December 2013 . According to Dravid , Rahane 's steel was what set him apart in a batting line-up of more flashier young Indians - a reputation earned while piling up runs in domestic cricket . " He is a slightly less flamboyant kid than the others but I do n't think that is necessarily a bad thing. Anyone who plays with him knows that he is a tough kid. He has got a steel about him , said Dravid , who has spent a lot of time with Rahane at IPL franchise Rajasthan Royals. " That is what matters. The guys who play with you , selectors , captains , you can sense he has got steel. I do n't think the fact that he is a bit less flamboyant or hits fewer sixes has held him back . " He has been competing in an environment where a lot of the other guys are doing well. He has now come into his own. He is at that level where he is pushing to be recognised as one of the best in that middle order. " Mumbai coach Pravin Amre , who has worked with Rahane developing his batting , revealed how failure on Test debut left the batsman shattered . " That Australia Test was a cross on his name , " said the former Test player. " He was shattered. Legends criticised him on air. I knew that was a turning point in his life. If he was gone , he was gone. That stamp would have been there throughout his life. He could have scored a 1000 [ Ranji Trophy ] runs a season , twice , but that stamp would have been there - that he did not capitalise when he had the opportunity. That is how cruel this game is. " © Cricbuzz
