Mumbai , 2015/Jan/08 01 : 03 : 00 , by K Shriniwas Rao Text Size Apart from Sachin Tendulkar , many well-known personalities across the world are also contributing to the movie. © Mumbai : One of the coming Fridays -the date has n't been decided as yet -2,000 theaters across the world will get ready for a blockbuster release of a feature film made on the life and times of Sachin Tendulkar . The Master Blaster is all set to blaze the silver screen with the yet to-be-titled movie which will capture his cricket and personal life in great detail. Tendulkar , who has given his go-ahead to the production , will be contributing to it with his own inputs as well as acting . The makers of the movie -a Mumbai production company called '200 Not Out ' -bagged the rights from World Sports Group , which manages Tendulkar 's brand and commercial interests. It will be directed by London based James Erskine. The work on a movie in which Master Blaster Sachin Tendulkar will play himself started a year ago and is being shot in latest. Nearly 50 % of the film has been shot. Apart from Tendulkar , many well-known personalities across the world are also contributing to it . 200 Not Out -the production house behind the movie , which has over 150 advertisement and short films to its credit -it is learnt , is also in touch with cricket boards across the world to access video footages from the past which will be weaved into the film. The production house has roped in James Erskine , a London based award-winning writer , director and producer to direct the film. James has directed 'One Night in Turin ' , which was released nationwide in the run up to the Football World Cup in 2010. He has also directed the film 'Battle of the Sexes ' , which captures the story of the most watched tennis match between Billie Jean King and Bobby Riggs. He has also directed cricket film 'From the Ashes' . Speaking with TOI , Ravi Bhagchandka , founder , 200 Not Out , said , " We decided on working with Erskine after studying the many incredible films involving sports personalities. This will be the first time he will be working in this part of the world. We will work with the best in the business for the film to be a fitting tribute to the achievements of Tendulkar. " The film will capture Tendulkar 's phenomenal rise and also reveals aspects hitherto unknown to common public. Bhagchandka , a former club cricketer from Mumbai , says after playing the game himself , he was in a position to understand the effect Tendulkar must have had on millions of fans. " Someone had to capture this as memories for the generations to come who will want to know what the Tendulkar-era was like , " he says . Tendulkar 's life as a young boy living in Mumbai , marriage to Anjali and his following worldwide will all be part of the movie apart from the game he played for 25 years. A leading sports broadcasting company is learnt to have picked the marketing rights for the movie. " It will be a worldwide release in more than 2,000 theatres , " Bhagchandka said . The makers of the movie did not want to make a documentary and opted for a feature film after the former cricketer gave the go-ahead to the project and agreed to be part of it . © TNN
