India tour of Australia , 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Virat Kohli 's record-breaking run and other interesting numbers Sydney , 2015/Jan/08 05 : 08 : 00 , by Pradeep Text Size Breaking records has become second nature to Kohli and he bagged quite a few on the third day at SCG © Getty It was a day of records at the Sydney Cricket Ground ( SCG ) for the Indians , who made the best of the opportunity to score on a rather placid track. Lokesh Rahul overcame the horror of Melbourne to compile a century. His innings was laced with composure and temperament , something that was missing on his debut at the MCG. It was to be his day , his moment under the sun. But as it often happened to the other Rahul ( Dravid ) , KL Rahul 's knock might perhaps go in as just a side-show for Virat Kohli. The Indian skipper lorded over , registering yet another century - his 10th in Tests , 6th against Australia and the fourth in this series ! En-route to the three figure mark , he went past a host of records. It has been a dream run for the Indian captain , and he is definitely not the Kohli , one saw in England. There were no hesitant pokes in the channel outside the off-stump , neither seen were the tentative front-foot pushes. Everything has gone according to plan. The big stride is back in business , there 's no hesitation in his shots. Some players revel when given responsibility. It seems that Kohli belongs to that tribe and there is no wonder that records seem to be tumbling in his favor . Here 's the numbers game from yet another batting day at SCG . Rohit Sharma went past fifty for the first time in Tests since the Auckland Test against New Zealand in February , 2014. In between , he scored 165 runs at an average of 20.63 . Lokesh Rahul became the 7th Karnataka player to score an international Test hundred. The others are Budhi Kunderan , Syed Kirmani , Brijesh Patel , Gundappa Vishwanath , Rahul Dravid and Anil Kumble . Virat Kohli became the first player to notch up three successive hundreds as a Test captain. He scored twin hundreds on captaincy debut at Adelaide before the ton here . This was Virat Kohli 's fourth hundred of the series. He has now equalled Sunil Gavaskar for the most number of hundreds in a single series. Gavaskar has scored four hundreds , twice in his career , against West Indies . Kohli now has 5 Test hundreds in Australia. He is in the joint fourth position along with Clive Lloyd , Sunil Gavaskar and David Gower. Herbert Sutcliffe , with 9 hundreds leads the pack . Kohli is only the third batsman to score 4 Test hundreds in a series in Australia. Herbert Sutcliffe and Sir Wally Hammond are the other two players to achieve the feat . Having already broken the record for most runs by a Indian number four batsman in a Test series , Virat Kohli now has scored the most runs by any visiting Indian batsman in Australia. When he reached 121 , he went past Dravid 's record of 619 runs , scored during the 2003/04 tour . For Suresh Raina , his comeback into Test cricket , for the first time since August , 2012 , ended in a disaster. He was dismissed for a first ball duck. He now has n't scored a Test run since getting 55 in India 's first innings against New Zealand in Bangalore in September , 2012 . Shane Watson took 2 wickets in a Test innings for the first time since November , 2011 . © Cricbuzz
