India tour of Australia , 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) R Ashwin : We definitely leaked a lot of runs Sydney , 2015/Jan/09 05 : 53 : 00 Text Size R Ashwin picked up his maiden four-wicket haul in Australia. © Getty Ravichandran Ashwin , India off-spinner , admitted that the bowlers were guilty of leaking too many runs in the final session of play , which allowed Australia to end Day 4 of the fourth Test in Melbourne with a 348-run second innings lead. India conceded 213 runs in the post-tea session as the hosts ended the day on 251 for six in 40 overs. Ashwin , who shared the new ball with Bhuvneshwar Kumar , picked four wickets , but the scalps came at a hefty price as he gave away 105 runs in 19 overs . " We definitely leaked a lot more runs than we would have liked to , " said Ashwin in the end of the day press conference. " They played a few good shots. We started off pretty poorly with the new ball as well and definitely the game could have been different. The way we applied pressure , the way the ball was spinning , the way it was coming out for me , it could have been a lot different. " " Having said that , it is still pretty decently poised for tomorrow ( Saturday ) . They definitely have an ace up their sleeve , but we will have to see how it goes. We batted pretty well in Adelaide. When I batted there were n't many devils in the wicket. I definitely found it a little hard to score but it 's a new-ball wicket , " Ashwin said . Ashwin , who scored his fourth Test fifty in the second innings , before picking up his maiden four wicket haul in Australia , said India 's plans on Day 5 depended on Australia 's strategy. " When I was batting I was looking to bat as long as possible , as deep as possible. I wanted to eat into as many overs as possible and make sure if at all a team won , it was going to be India. Fortunately or unfortunately the game is very well poised now. You do n't know where it will go and it depends on what strategy they adopt. " Speaking about his bowling performance , Ashwin said : " When you have been working on something and the effort you have put in , when it pays off in numbers , it feels heartening. I thought this could be a chance where I could create something for the team. Ideally I would have liked a little bit more control from the other side and that would have been nice , but they ( Australian batsmen ) also took us on. I mean you have to give credit to them. They batted very positively. They wanted to take the game forward , which is a very good sign. " While Chris Rogers hit a steady 56 off 77 deliveries , Steven Smith scored a 70-ball 71 and Joe Burns smashed a 39-ball 66 to pummel the Indian attack. Ashwin made no excuses for the wayward bowling. " They took us on. Quite a few shots were played and we started pretty poorly with the new ball. We have to admit that when we picked up wickets , we kept on leaking 15-16 runs from the other end. That was n't helping the cause. " " These are times when a batsman walks out thinking he can get runs. There is nothing to lose and his team has given him the license to go out and bat freely. When there is pressure , when there is 300 to get with the ball spinning the way it did , then we will see what Joe Burns can do , " Ashwin said , when asked about Burns ' express hitting towards the end of Day 4 . With an overnight declaration expected , India need to score close to 4 an over if they are to reach the target and secure a consolation victory. When asked what would be India 's approach on the final day , Ashwin said the Virat Kohli-led side will go for a result if provided an opportunity . " We have to look forward now. We put ourselves in a decent situation after batting well , but we will have to see how it goes. Even in Adelaide it was similar. We will see how they take it on themselves. It 's a wicket where you apply and bat it is hard to get you out. You can put a price on your wicket. We are here to play positive cricket , we are here to win games. If presented with an opportunity to go for a victory , we will try to go for it as sensibly as possible and see where we can go. We are here to win games of cricket and there is no two ways to go about it , " Ashwin said . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) More stories from India tour of Australia , 2014-15
