India tour of Australia , 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) India 's overseas Test journey ends with renewed concern over its bowling 2015/Jan/10 05 : 11 : 00 , by Tanmoy Mookherjee Text Size There is a gulf between India 's bowling and what is acceptable Test quality. © Agencies It is about time to look back and mull over India 's performances as their year-long campaign away from home ended in a tense draw against Australia at the Sydney Cricket Ground. From South Africa to New Zealand to England to Australia , the Test team has seen more downs and ups and with their regular captain retired mid-series , it was a fitting end to a series that , although has set the blueprint for a new team , remains overly dependent on a few individuals . Draws in Melbourne and Sydney put forth a renewed vigour in this young team not willing to give up like it did in the early stages of this tour , as well as this year. The signs were there even in South Africa and New Zealand where they could have won Test matches , but the lack of a bowling unit capable of sparking collapses rather than suffering one all the time was glaring , and has hurt them often . In many ways then , it was the fourth day of the Sydney Test that explained , nay exaggerated , how India 's campaigns overseas have panned out. Unless they can put together four bowlers who look remotely capable of causing trouble to batsmen , results away from home would continue to look like the ones they have endured all this year . The results in South Africa and New Zealand , while they were encouraging despite the 0-1 returns , did n't explore the possibility of how longer duration series would end. England and Australia ended that doubt. While the batsmen were exposed in England , they fared better in Australia , in both series the bowling remained pedestrian more the majority of the series . Melbourne and Sydney were draws , but in giving away 500 runs in each of Australia 's four first innings and failing to bowl them out twice in any game , the new year has begun with renewed concern over India 's bowling. Assistant coach Sanjay Bangar 's assertion that this was the best bowling attack India had assembled " in years " was well off the mark. But whether they look beyond the wayward tearaways or stick with them , only time will tell . With the last overseas assignment before a long home leg of international cricket approaching in the form of the tri-series in Australia and the World Cup thereafter , it was India 's batting that came out largely unhurt. That Virat Kohli led from the front , with his bat for 692 runs , indicated how this Test team will continue to play its cricket . Much like the famed middle order of the previous generation , the combination of Kohli and Ajiinkya Rahane in the middle order , and the discipline of Murali Vijay at the top , will form the core of India 's batting. The emergence of KL Rahul as a reliable opening batsman to accompany Vijay lends assurance to the opening spot that had begun to look extremely fragile with the presence of Shikhar Dhawan . Amidst all positives , though , emerged uncertainty over two important batting positions. Batsmen make up for lack of technique with application and temperament , and Cheteshwar Pujara became vulnerable on that account , as did Rohit Sharma , who never seems to be troubled by the pace or bounce on a pitch , and yet finds a way to be despite being well-set. Whether Suresh Raina - with a new life in one-day cricket and the backing of team director Ravi Shastri - finds his name in a Test team after his pair at Sydney should be a foregone conclusion. Pujara continues to be the best bet at No 3 , but India 's struggle at finding a reliable No 6 - either a pure batsman or a bowling allrounder - continues . Another knee-jerk reaction to India 's overseas performances has already begun with the domestic calendar being re-jigged , but until the time pitches in Indian conditions are not prepared to Test condition standards , India 's bowling will continue to suffer overseas. That only two spinners figure in the top-20 wicket-takers this Ranji Trophy season should be reason enough to do away with green tops that make average medium-pacers look like , as Harbhajan Singh said , Malcolm Marshall . The cracks in India 's batting that crept up in England were somewhat papered over , but there is a gulf between India 's bowling and what is acceptable Test quality. Bowling wins you matches. The last time India won overseas , they bowled England out twice at Lord 's . © Cricbuzz
