India tour of Australia , 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Duds in Tests , studs in ODIs Mumbai , 2015/Jan/12 22 : 58 : 00 , by Gaurav Gupta Text Size It wo n't be long before Suresh Raina 's struggle in Test cricket will be forgotten. © Agencies It 's almost like Jekyll and Hyde. The moment the Indian cricketers step out on 'foreign ' soil wearing whites , they stop inspiring confidence. They try hard , but probably even they know that a defeat is the norm , a draw is a win , and a win an exception. While the batsmen , barring the really classy ones , suffer from lack of technique against the bouncing , moving ball , the bowlers get exposed due to lack of penetration . However , colour their jerseys blue and see the difference. The Indian cricket team then bears a completely different look , one that fears no opposition , no wicket and no history. With the slips out , the batsmen are able to unleash their strokeplay even with two new balls coming into play. The bowlers look more 'at home ' , while the fielding , boosted by young legs , attains a different level altogether . This anomaly is best explained when you see India currently languish at the No. 7 position in Test cricket , which is played by not more than 10 countries , even as they rock and roll in the ODI world , being ranked No. 2 behind Australia , with as many points ( 117 ) . Powered by a group of exceptional players , India did travel well for a while in Test cricket , but since the last four years , the gap between India 's Test and ODI fortunes in overseas conditions has widened . Sample this : Since winning the World Cup in April 2011 , while playing abroad , they have lost as many as 15 Tests , with just a couple of wins. The figure , in this case , is marginally better for the Indian ODI team-21 wins against 18 losses in 44 games ( two games were tied while three did n't produce a result ) , with a creditable ICC Champions Trophy triumph in England in 2013 to show off . It is indeed ironic that as they launch into the tri-series against England and Australia before defending their World Cup title , India would feel comfortable and secure being led by a man who , perhaps sick and tired of losing overseas Tests on a consistent basis , has now chosen to play only in the limited overs format . The same MS Dhoni , who would be hauled on the coals for his 'indifferent approach ' in Tests would now again be hailed as 'Captain Cool. ' Former India skipper and chief selector Dilip Vengsarkar hits the nail on the head while reasoning out why India would appear a different proposition in limited overs cricket. " The single-biggest factor is that when it comes to the ODIs , our bowlers do n't have to bowl more than 10 overs at the most , whereas in a Test match one may be required to deliver as many as 25 in a day. When it comes to bowling 10 overs or four in the case of a T20 match , our bowlers are effective , " Vengsarkar told TOI on Monday . Former India seamer Manoj Prabhakar , a known exponent of swing bowling in his time , believes the IPL is contributing much to make India an ODI power , which 'blacks out ' outside home in Tests. " We have to thank the IPL for giving exposure to our batsmen to hit out against bowlers who clock 140-plus. However , while the IPL has helped us improve our batting , it has n't done the same to our bowling. It has helped the batsmen invent upper cut , scoops and all kinds of strokes , but there has been not a single invention in bowling . Our bowlers do n't even know how to 'reverse ' the ball , " Prabhakar said . As India begin their tri-series campaign on January 18 against Australia , bet on a few things to happen. Even though he has had a miserable time in Tests , Shikhar Dhawan might just recover form. Ravindra Jadeja , if he is fit again , will look like a match-winner . It wo n't be long before you forget Suresh Raina and Rohit Sharma 's struggles in Test cricket . Even the clueless pacers will be striding in with renewed vigour , consigning their Test flop show to history. And at the end of it all , you might yet again see Dhoni walking away with a stump and a smile on his face . It is a fascinating paradox , which keeps the sponsors and fans happy , but the purists sad , with the players and officials oscillating between the two. Almost the worst in Tests. Almost the best in one-day cricket . Maybe , just maybe , someday we will fix this. But from now , till the next couple of months , just sit back and enjoy the 'worldbeaters ' in action . © TNN
