Kapil praises Dhoni 's timely decision to retire from Tests London , 2015/Jan/14 03 : 08 : 00 Text Size Kapil Dev ( in pic ) praised MS Dhoni for his timely decision to retire from the game. © Agencies Saluting MS Dhoni 's decision to retire from Test cricket , former India captain Kapil Dev said that Dhoni has given everybody , including the chair-greedy administrators , a food for thought with his bold step . " Dhoni could have easily played 100 Tests. That 's why I say 'Dhoni well done , you 're my man ' , " Kapil said , during his address at the fourth Tiger Pataudi Memorial Lecture , organised by The Telegraph . " Dhoni , you 're a great guy. You have served the country so well. You have done a good thing , " Kapil said. " A lot of people said that he should have played at least 100 Tests. I think he has given us a new thought. You do n't have to play throughout your life. You should retire when you think the next generation is coming , " he added . Quoting former Australian captain Greg Chappell , he said : " He had said one thing which I admire. Any cricketer who plays longer than his time , kills the next three generations. It 's a thought I truly admire. " Taking a dig at cricket administrators , Kapil then hoped that they will learn from Dhoni 's timely decision to hang up his spiked boots. " I hope in cricket , the administrators will learn from it and not stick to their chairs for 30 years or a lifetime. " India are the defending champions going into the 50-over ICC Cricket World Cup , 2015. Kapil , on his part , wished Dhoni and his team all the best for their title defence in Australia-New Zealand. " I wish you another victory. I hope you play well and do n't let it go. It comes every four years. It 's painful to wait for another four years. " Kapil also reminisced India 's epochal triumph in the 1983 World Cup. " I feel very proud and happy that I was a part of the 1983 team. Forget about captaincy , but a part of the process we started in our country. It 's the self belief about achieving something in sport , not just in cricket. We started believing that we can achieve and that 's the best thing to have happened in 1983. My team is your team as well. " Kapil urged the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) to appoint different captains for Test cricket and shorter versions of the game. " Every Test player ca n't be a good captain in T20s. And every T20 captain is definitely not good enough to lead a Test side. It 's very difficult as in Tests you need to be constantly thinking. I hope my country and the board will have the sense to have two or three different captains. It will help our game. " Intriguingly , Kapil was of the opinion that in future , cricket may see a non-playing captain. " I think a time will come when you will have non-playing captain , who can assess the game much better. Technology is changing so fast. Man-management is required in cricket and coach can be a senior cricketer. Now , cricket has changed so much. In cricket one thing is good , everybody is an expert and I feel that 's why the sport is so popular. Everybody is a selector in our country and gives his opinion. " Kapil also remembered his former captains , Bishan Singh Bedi and Sunil Gavaskar , and the lessons he learnt from them. " My first captain was Bishan Singh Bedi who had a very big heart , very typical Sardarji and played with passion. My second captain was Sunil Gavaskar. He did n't have a big heart , but he was a great thinker. So , I told myself that I would like to be like Bedi off the field and like Gavaskar on the field. You maybe an inborn leader , but you can still learn from different individuals. That 's the way I look at captaincy. " Kapil signed off by paying a glowing tribute to Pataudi for his contribution towards Indian cricket. " Certain people do n't go. He 's the best cricketer we had had and we are proud of him. He has given us a new thinking. Many people followed him including myself. " Pataudi , who succeeded Nari Contractor as the captain in only his fourth Test and at the age of 21 against a fine West Indies ' side led by Sir Frank Worrell at Bridgetown , Barbados in March 1962 , helped India to wallow through the morass of mediocrity and instilled much-needed self belief among the players . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies )
