Australia tri-series 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Raina insists he can , and is able Melbourne , 2015/Jan/15 23 : 16 : 00 , by Santosh Suri Text Size Suresh Raina will be aiming to make a mark in the upcoming ODI tri-series. © Getty He is a vital cog in India 's limited overs scheme , but Suresh Raina was a surprise omission at the launch of Team India 's new kit here on Thursday. Is Raina losing his stature in the team ? If he is , it never showed , for he was his usual cheerful self when the team went about their first workout after the Test series at the MCG here. Raina went through the drills and then was an active member at the warm-up football match they played as the team started its preparations the MCG , the venue which will host the World Cup final in March-end . Despite his disastrous outing in the final Test in Sydney , where he faced a mere four balls before falling for a duck in both innings , Raina was unperturbed. " I got two good deliveries very early in the innings. Watto 's ( Shane Watson ) was a great ball first up in the first innings. There was a bit of misjudgment on my part in the second. I should have played forward , rather than trying to block ( Mitchell ) Starc from the crease. It happens , I just take it as a part of the game , " he said before running off to join his ODI mates in the MCG dining room . Last summer , it was Raina 's performances which proved the catalyst in changing India 's fortunes in the ODI series in England. He struck a brilliant century at Cardiff in the second ODI. After that win , with the first tie washed off due to rain , the team found itself on the path to recovery after having lost the Test series. Cardiff paved the way for India 's series win after suffering a 3-1 series loss in the Tests. Things are a bit different now. In Australia , Raina was part of the Test team , but he also suffered the ignominy of a pair when called upon to deliver. Statistics reveal he has five ducks in his last seven Test innings over the last two years. The question marks are getting bigger , but there is no doubting that he is a different quantity in the ODIs . Raina may be a classic Jekyll and Hyde case in international cricket , but he refutes the suggestion , saying he still thinks he can do well in Test matches . Despite his recent Test failures he is confident about his game. " Nothing has changed for me. Nor has my confidence been dented. Only , I need to be more watchful early in the innings , be it in Test cricket or the ODIs. The sooner I get a good knock under my belt , the better it will be for the team , " he said . © TNN
