Australia tri-series 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) MS Dhoni : Players with niggles will not be rushed Melbourne , 2015/Jan/17 00 : 25 : 00 Text Size MS Dhoni spoke about his team 's chances during the 2015 World Cup ahead of India 's first match in the triangular series against Australia © Getty India begin the final leg of their preparations for the upcoming ICC Cricket World Cup , 2015 , with their first match of the tri-series , against hosts , Australia , at the Melbourne Cricket Ground ( MCG ) , on Sunday , January 18. While the majority of players pick themselves , India have a problem or two when it comes to picking their ideal line-up , keeping in mind the conditions that the team will encounter during the mega tournament . The opening conundrum has been largely unresolved. While Shikhar Dhawan looks a certainty , there has been contrasting views on his opening partner. Rohit Sharma missed out during the England series with an injury and his replacement , Ajinkya Rahane , did a commendable job , scoring his maiden ODI century , in the fourth ODI at Birmingham. Rohit returned for the home series against Sri Lanka and staked his claim with a world record knock of 264 at the Eden Gardens in Kolkata . In the bowling front , Ravindra Jadeja and Ishant Sharma have been confirmed as non-starters for Sunday 's match. The former is suffering from a shoulder impingement and is likely to miss the entire series. Ishant Sharma was ruled out of the final Test in Sydney , with a sore knee. With both players being a part of the World Cup plans , the Indian team management is wary about exposing them so early in the series . Speaking to the press ahead of the team 's first match , skipper , MS Dhoni , exuded confidence and also said the team would ring in changes with an eye on the mega tournament. " Since 2007 , the word experiment has been banned from India cricket , " Dhoni said , with a wry smile. " What we do is try out different things. We will in this tournament also. I think - we have four games at least and five if we make the final - what 's most important for us is of course to get the combination right but at the same time what we wo n't do in this tournament is push people who have a few niggles that can transform into major injuries. We will give them that extra time if needed. Because , what 's important for all of us is to be at least 80 to 90 % fit going into the games. We will manage the workload accordingly , " he said . India have added pace bowlers Mohit Sharma and Dhawal Kulkani as extra players for the triangular series and Dhoni confirmed that the duo might feature at some stage of the tournament. " That 's the major thinking behind them being here , " he said. " At the same time , we have to play with the 15 who are part of the World Cup squad. If we feel it 's important we can give some extra time to a few of the individuals. Then they will also be considered for selection. But as of now , we will look to pick from the 15. But you can say for the tri-series as of now we are a 17-member squad , " Dhoni mentioned . Talking about the bowling , Dhoni stressed on the need for the bowlers to execute their plans. Harping on the yorker , Dhoni said the success of his team would largely depend upon how well the bowling group execute their plans. " The execution of yorkers and bouncers becomes very crucial and that 's what we have been working on in the last few days. The bowlers are doing pretty well with the yorkers and if they can replicate in the match , we will be very happy with it , " Dhoni said . Stuart Binny was a surprise choice as India 's seam bowling allrounder in the 15-man World Cup squad and the skipper defended his inclusion , saying he was the best prospect amongst the domestic crop of bowling allrounders. " Depending on a few venues where we will be playing , it is important that we have a seaming allrounder in the side , " he said. " We are playing a few games in Perth and a few in New Zealand where there 's not much purchase for the spinners. And that 's one area where Stuey may come in . " Irrespective of all the debate , the best seaming allrounder of India has been picked in the side. So we are hoping that he will stand up and take the responsibility. He is exciting you know. He can play aggressive shots if needed. And he 's a good bowler. If he gives me six to eight overs , that 's enough. I can use the other part-timers to bowl those two-three overs that are needed , " Dhoni said . One of India 's main strengths is their ground fielding and the skipper noted it was an area of strength going into the marquee tournament. Fielding is something we pride ourselves on , he said. It is a major part of modern cricket irrespective of the format. We are a fantastic fielding side and it has reflected in the ODIs that we have played in the last few years. On grounds with big outfields it is important to judge where to stand because on these grounds the batsmen like to push the ball between two fielders and run two-three runs , " he said . India have a stellar recent record in ICC tournaments. They won the 2011 World Cup as well as the 2013 Champions Trophy. MS Dhoni 's team were also the runners-up in the 2014 T20 WC. While being quietly confident , Dhoni is under no illusions going into the 2015 tournament. " We have done well in the last two ICC tournaments and both of them were away , in Sri Lanka and England , " he said. " But the conditions in Australia and New Zealand are quite different. You also have to keep in mind the form of the players and the little niggles that some of them are carrying. But yes , we will take a lot of confidence out of our last few performances in the ICC tournaments , " he signed off . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) More stories from Australia tri-series 2014-15
