Countdown to ICC Cricket World Cup , 2015 ( Full Coverage ) ICC Cricket World Cup , 2015 Countdown # 26 - When Wright got it wrong 2015/Jan/18 00 : 55 : 00 , by Kaushik Rangarajan Text Size © Getty The 1992 edition of the Cricket World Cup was the quintessential tale of an underdog punching above his weight to win a bout. Pakistan , having won just a solitary game from their first five encounters , clawed their way back to complete a historical World Cup triumph. While the world sat up and saluted Imran 's mavericks , there was a sub-plot that saw Martin Crowe 's New Zealand skip dessert at the end of a sumptuous meal . New Zealand , co-hosts of the '92 World Cup , eased their way to the semi-finals of the tournament having won their first seven group stage games. The splendid run was largely attributed to skipper Martin Crowe 's novel strategies , chief among which were opening the batting with Mark Greatbatch and the bowling with the off spin of Deepak Patel. In fact , having already been assured of a place in the semi-finals , they could afford an off-day and were duly beaten by Imran Khan 's resurgent Pakistan side in the final league game. That result , however , meant that the two teams would battle once again in the semis. At Eden Park , Auckland , there could be no slip-ups . After winning the toss , Martin Crowe was it again. Despite straining his left hamstring during the innings , Crowe scored a typically classy 91 before Greatbatch , running for his captain , was caught short of the crease by a Saleem Malik throw. Notwithstanding Crowe 's dismissal , New Zealand went on to post a formidable 262 in their 50 overs. 262 , as Crowe saw it , was enough on the board for him to sit out and tend to his injury before an impending final and allow deputy , John Wright to take over. Somehow , Wright got it wrong . One of the hallmarks of Crowe 's captaincy in that tournament was his rotation of bowlers. Bowlers operated in short-bursts of two over spells. The idea was to not allow any batsman to get a feel of the bowling , a ploy that worked wonders in the group stage. Wright , who would go on to enjoy a successful stint as the strategist of an Indian team he coached , thought otherwise . Pakistan were four down and needed 123 off the final 15 overs , a Himalayan challenge even by present day T20 standards. Enter , a young and thin , Inzamam-ul Haq. The Kiwis were expected to keep this talented , but inexperienced , newcomer unsettled with constant bowling changes. Wright however , adopted a more wait-and-see approach . In the ensuing twenty-odd minutes , he had inadvertently lost New Zealand , a shot at glory. He bowled Gavin Larsen and Chris Harris in an extended spell. Inzamam , shepherded by the perdurable , Javed Miandad , set about working the Kiwi bowlers out. He started with a flurry of boundaries and all of a sudden , New Zealand panicked. John Wright watched in a state of trance as Inzamam pounded his once-so-efficient bowlers with an air of nonchalance. Inzi 's 60 off 37-helped Pakistan , chase down the total with an over to spare and a hamstring had robbed a nation , off a World Cup . © Cricbuzz
