Sri Lanka 's Preparations for India Tour Not Great : Angelo Mathews Sri Lanka 's Preparations for India Tour Not Great : Angelo Mathews Sri Lanka 's break from international cricket was disrupted thanks to a hastily arranged Indian tour and captain Angelo Mathews feels three days of batting practice is not good enough for what is undoubtedly a tough series . Last updated on Sunday , 26 October , 2014 17 : 41 IST Total Shares File photo of Sri Lanka skipper Angelo Mathews © AP Sri Lanka captain Angelo Mathews said his team is not prepared for the five-match ODI series in India which starts on November 2 . After the West Indies pulled out of the Indian tour over pay disputes with WICB , the Board of Control for Cricket in India hastily arranged a short series with the Lankans , who have so far played 144 ODIs against India . Sri Lanka were in the midst of a break from their international schedule , working on fitness programmes when they were told about the tour. Former captain Kumar Sangakkara was also not impressed and he let his strong views public via Twitter . A week later , Mathews sounded far from pleased too but he was more guarded in his criticism : " The preparation for the series is not that great , we only had a few practice sessions especially with the weather interrupting , " Mathews was quoted as saying in ESPNcricinfo. " It is not the ideal preparation for an Indian tour but we will do our best to prepare ourselves and take it as it comes. " Sri Lanka had last played Pakistan at home and were assured of a long break till England came visiting at the end of November. However , the much-needed break and fitness routines were disrupted when Sri Lanka cricket agreed to 'bail out ' the powerful BCCI , who had reportedly suffered losses to the tune of Rs 400 crore after West Indies quit the tour . " We had a good break to improve our physical fitness ; a good month and a half fitness session , and now we have to maintain that fitness , " Mathews said. " I am sure during the Indian matches we wo n't be able to do strenuous training as we did in the past one and a half months , but we will try and maintain it and look at it positively. " " We were preparing for the England series because we knew that there were n't any tours coming before that. We were focused on a lot on fitness and we just started batting three days ago. We only had a few skill-training sessions. We needed to reach our peak levels during the England series but now that we 've been thrown into a challenge , we will try our best to be prepared as much as we can. " Sri Lanka have had a great year , especially in limited overs cricket. They won the Asia Cup and ICC World T20 , both played in Bangladesh. But their skills will be further tested when they take on a strong Indian team in their own backyard . Story first published on : Sunday , 26 October 2014 16 : 36 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
