Ranji Trophy 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Naman Ojha : Where should I next perform ? Indore , 2015/Jan/19 00 : 07 : 00 , by Vineet Ramakrishnan Text Size With another windfall domestic season on the horizon , Naman Ojha is letting his bat do the talking. © BCCL Racking up scores of 219 , 101 * and 110 in consecutive first-class innings is no ordinary feat , and considering that Naman Ojha scored these runs in Australia when playing for India A , against a bowling attack consisting of Test players in James Faulkner , Mitchell Marsh and Moises Henriques , one should consider him mighty unlucky to not feature in the subsequent Test series India played Down Under . After the windfall India A series , Ojha , 31 , cracked another double-hundred , this time at home , in the Duleep Trophy semi-final to take Central Zone into the final against South Zone. He was rewarded with a call-up to Australia as a back-up wicketkeeper to Wriddhiman Saha , with MS Dhoni already out with an injury for the first Test. It was clear that Saha was going to keep in Dhoni 's absence , but sending Ojha back to India after being Saha 's cover for just one Test seemed an odd decision . But Ojha got back to business once home , slotting back into Madhya Pradesh 's line-up and producing scores of 59 * , 42 , 4 , 155 , 54 and 115 so far in the on-going Ranji Trophy. This season , he has 730 first-class runs at an average of 73. Rather than expecting another India call , Ojha is just happy batting . " It is better if I go and score runs. I am happy to do my job , " he tells Cricbuzz. " Selection is not in my hands. The only thing I can say is that I won the semi-finals [ Duleep Trophy ] for Central Zone. I got MP three points in the Mumbai [ Ranji Trophy ] match , saved a match against Tamil Nadu in Tamil Nadu. I am just enjoying my performance and do not have any expectation. " That is a straightforward and common phrase in Indian cricket , but Ojha 's is accompanied by a bit of a cheeky grin. As expressive as he is with the bat , Ojha is the exact opposite off the field. He needs prodding to speak further on his expectation comment . " I got runs in Australia , I have been scoring hundreds here , " he says with a smile. " Where should I next perform ? Only Tests remain , I guess. I mean wherever I get a chance , it is just that. " With Dhoni announcing his retirement from Test cricket , the race for India 's next wicketkeeper has opened up. While Saha got the preference in Australia , his batting returns are nowhere near to what Ojha has managed. As a wicketkeeper , Saha is widely considered to be the best in the country , but Ojha feels he has improved his skills behind the stumps . " I was playing in the Champions League T20 , and I was watching this Australian wicketkeeper and he was gathering the ball very nicely , " he says. " I copied that and that has been working well for me now. I am more confident about my 'keeping skills. " India are not going to play Tests for a while now , and though he has the numbers to put forward , getting into the ODI squad is very tough considering the batting might it possesses. The situation is somewhat similar to what Ojha faced in 2004-05 when , as a 22-year-old , he had impressed in the Duleep Trophy final and was talked about as a bright prospect for India. Then Dhoni arrived on the scene with a scintillating 148 against Pakistan at Vizag and the rest , as they say , is history . Ojha does not want to dwell much on that , but says that there were a lot of drawbacks in his batting at that time which he was able to rectify only recently. " Whatever happened , happened and at that time I did n't have any doubts about my batting. There were a couple of seasons when I was getting out in the same manner and I needed to sort out my balance. That came with time , " he says. " Also , I used to get out in the 70s and 80s a lot and that was my drawback. I felt I was scoring the same amount of runs as the other players , but they are doing that in two innings with two big hundreds , while I am getting those runs in four innings with scores of 80 and 90s. I realised that I need to be much more focused to covert those starts. " Between 2004 and 2009 Ojha made 16 scores of over fifty but only once converted one into a hundred. Then a huge one-day domestic season ( 419 runs from just six matches ) was followed by a good season for Rajasthan Royals in the second edition of the IPL , and Ojha got his India break. With Dhoni rested for a tri-series In Zimbabwe , Ojha was named wicketkeeper in a second-string side . He made his ODI debut in Harare on June 12 , 2010 , made just one run , and has not been picked since. Ojha feels he should have got more chances . " I scored three hundreds in the one-dayers , I took my team to the semi-final in 2010 [ 2009-10 ] . I scored , 101 , 167 and 110 not out and good runs in the IPL and after that , I got just one chance in Zimbabwe. I realised a lot of guys performing less than me got more chances , " he says . Ojha has turned a new leaf after spending more than a decade in domestic cricket , and in the last season he scored four hundreds , including a double , out of the five fifty-plus scores he made. With another windfall season on the horizon , he is letting his bat do the talking once again . © Cricbuzz
