South Africa v West Indies 2014-15 Wanted Miller to bat ahead of me : de Villiers 2015/Jan/19 02 : 54 : 00 Text Size It was just my day : AB de Villiers © Getty A day after shattering Corey Anderson 's record for the fastest ODI century , AB de Villiers said he wanted David Miller to bat ahead of him in the second ODI against the West Indies. According to ESPNCricinfo , de Villiers was asked to bat at No 3 by coach Russell Domingo after the 247-run association between Hashim Amla and Rilee Rossouw was finally taken care of . " I approached Russell Domingo about four or five times saying , 'Are you sure me and not David Miller ? ' and he said 'Yes , sure, ' and then two or three overs later , Sulieman Benn came back and I went to Russell for a final time and said 'Maybe him now ? ' and he still said , 'No , you'. Russell feels I can inject us with fuel , momentum , which I can do but I just felt David could do it better , " de Villiers said . During his innings , de Villiers broke a lot many records. Not only did he rack up the fastest ODI ton , but also took South Africa to their second-highest total. He also equalled the highest number of sixes in an innings with 16 and put up the second-fastest 100-run partnership for any wicket. De Villiers admitted he was under no pressure when he walked out to bat due to the wonderful platform provided by openers . " My thinking was just to be aggressive. I had no pressure on me. I could free up nicely , knowing that if I get out , there are quite a few guys to come who could hit the ball , " he said. " You do n't very often just come in and get momentum behind you right away. More often than not , you 've got to work for it. Today was an exception. Out of nowhere , you hit a couple in the middle and then start going. Sometimes you 've got to work harder to get that sniff , or get that click. Today it just happened from the word go . " You have to sort of read the game a little bit to see what the bowler is trying to do. You ca n't just let him bowl at you , you have to try and take the initiative and put him under a bit of pressure. I do n't know how many balls I faced , I premeditated but you 've got to take the initiative and take the attack to the bowler , instead of him bowling to you , " he said . De Villiers further said that he wanted to take this form into the World Cup and help South Africa give their best during the mega-event. " Performances like this helps the confidence. That 's what I believe 80 or 90 % of sport is about - believing in yourself as a team and as an individual and you can see the difference between teams that play with confidence and teams that do n't , " de Villiers said . " I 'd like to believe we are getting more confidence behind us. That 's what this series is all about : for us to play well and get confidence and to go to the World Cup believing we are the best in the world. No team has ever won the World Cup not thinking they are the best. You 've got to believe you are the best and I think we are close to that. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies )
