Australia tri-series 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Preview : India aim to prolong England 's agony Brisbane , 2015/Jan/19 04 : 41 : 00 , by Siddharth Vishwanathan Text Size Rohit Sharma started off the tournament with a bang by scoring 138 against Australia at Melbourne and England will be wary of his capability. © Getty India and England lost their opening games to Australia but the manner of their defeats sent out different signals. With both bat and ball , England were poor in Sydney while India had some positives to take from their defeat in Melbourne on Sunday . With the teams locking horns in Australia for the first time in 22 years , India will be aiming to register their first win on tour , knowing that England have won just three of their last 10 ODIs and are low on confidence. England need a turnaround desperately but that will not be easy against an Indian team that fought hard against Australia . Team News India Rohit Sharma gave India 138 reasons to smile with his performance against Australia in Melbourne and his touch augurs well for the team. However , the same can not be said about Shikhar Dhawan who departed in the first over. The left-hander 's lack of form is a source of real worry and his continued failures challenge the team. There have been calls for Ajinkya Rahane to step up as opener and it will be interesting to see if MS Dhoni decides to go with that in Brisbane . The Indian bowlers came into their own with a spirited display towards the end of the opening match. Umesh Yadav , who strayed with the new ball , came back and bowled with pace and hostility. Bhuvneshwar Kumar held things up nicely until he went for 16 runs in what turned out to be the final over of the match. Mohammed Shami is under a cloud after walking off the MCG pitch with a fitness problem. Mohit Sharma or Dhawal Kulkarni could take his place if he is ruled unfit . Probable XI 1. Rohit Sharma , 2. Shikhar Dhawan , 3. Ajinkya Rahane , 4. Virat Kohli , 5. Suresh Raina , 6. MS Dhoni ( c and wk ) , 7. Axar Patel , 8. R Ashwin , 9. Bhuvneshwar Kumar , 10. Umesh Yadav , 11. Mohammed Shami/Mohit Sharma England There seems to be no end to England 's woes in ODIs. They lost three successive ODI series and were out of depth in Sydney. The inconsistency at the top is a major source of worry. Only four batsmen average over 30 , with Joe Root the only one with an average of over 40. Ian Bell averages 24 in the last 10 matches and his struggles have highlighted England 's plight. Eoin Morgan 's century against Australia held the middle-order together but he lacked support. England 's batting must function as a unit if they are to change their fortunes . England will welcome James Anderson back after he missed Sydney game due to an injury. Anderson will be valuable on a Gabba deck that is expected to assist swing and offer extra bounce. Stuart Broad looked rusty and the team will be hoping that he can get into rhythm . Probable XI 1. Ian Bell , 2. Moeen Ali , 3. James Taylor , 4. Joe Root , 5. Eoin Morgan , 6. Ravi Bopara , 7. Jos Buttler , 8. Chris Woakes , 9. Chris Jordan , 10. Stuart Broad , 11. James Anderson Stat India and England have played two ODIs in Australia and have registered a win each. In the World Championship of Cricket in 1985 , India won by 86 runs in Sydney while in the 1992 World Cup , England edged out India by nine runs . © Cricbuzz
