Australia tri-series 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Ganguly exclusive : India will have to find place for Binny at Gabba 2015/Jan/19 11 : 43 : 00 , by Sourav Ganguly Text Size In six ODIs for India , Stuart Binny has taken nine wickets and scored 40 runs. © Getty India will have to revisit the two-spinner theory when they take the stage against England at the Gabba in Brisbane in their second game of the Australia tri-series on Tuesday. I know India are handicapped by the injury to Ravindra Jadeja but they must start finding a way out as they get to a crucial part of their tour of Australia. I must say that I agree with the way the Indian team management has handled the niggles of some players. The team will be wishing that all players get to the World Cup with full fitness . From Melbourne , India have moved to Brisbane where the conditions are totally different. They need to solve the problem of lower-order batting by including Stuart Binny in the playing XI. The pace and bounce at the Gabba could be a perfect place for his bowling to be tried out too . Of course , MS Dhoni has to make sure that Binny bowls his full quota of 10 overs so that he gains a fair knowledge about his bowling at different stages of the game. Binny could also contribute with the bat and since Bhuvneshwar Kumar is not swinging the new ball , India can play two spinners when the team plays on the flat pitches of Sydney , Adelaide and Hobart . The conditions in Brisbane will also enhance England 's competitiveness. Though they lost in Sydney to Australia , they have showed some good signs. With the likes of Chris Woakes , Jos Buttler and Eoin Morgan , they have a handy batting unit. The approach of their top-order will be crucial since I am convinced retaining wickets till the final overs will be the key . We have already seen the importance of the lower-order batsmen 's ability to stand up and be counted when Australia edged ahead of India in Melbourne. That game reflected the difference in the ability of the lower-order batting of the two teams. India were in a great position during the Rohit Sharma-Suresh Raina partnership but lost ground once that stand was broken and captain Dhoni was also dismissed quickly . Australia also almost lost way in the middle after been 216 for two at one stage. Bailey and co. nearly made a mess of it. The Aussies will admit that the match should n't have gone the distance it went and should n't have been so close. Steven Smith , Aaron Finch , George Bailey and Glenn Maxwell 's loss restricted them a bit but the fire-power of Brad Haddin and James Faulkner , who is fast becoming an outstanding finisher , saw them through . Talking about finishers , it is hard to ignore what AB de Villiers did against the West Indies at Johannesburg on Sunday. I agree with the former players who say he is completely magical in all conditions and by far the best player in the world. But for the moment , our attention will be riveted on how India tackle the conditions in Brisbane and the competition from England . © Cricbuzz
