Australia tri-series 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Dispirited India crash to nine-wicket defeat 2015/Jan/20 03 : 18 : 00 , by Prateek Srivastava Text Size India had no answers to Steven Finn 's bouncers. © Getty India 's bid to register their first win on the tour of Australia remained unsuccessful following a humiliating nine-wicket defeat at the hands of England in the third match of the triangular series in Brisbane on Tuesday . After MS Dhoni elected to bat on a slow and tricky Gabba pitch , Steven Finn took a career-best 5 for 33 and along with James Anderson ( 4 for 18 ) knocked India over for 153 in 39.3 overs. From there , given India 's suspect bowling resources , the result was almost a foregone conclusion and , with an unbeaten 131-run stand for the second wicket between Ian Bell ( 88 * ) and James Taylor ( 56 * ) , England bounced back from defeat to Australia on Friday to pocket five points . Not for the first time in overseas conditions under Dhoni , India 's batsmen failed to apply themselves. As the captain admitted after the loss , a lack of partnerships hurt the team. Ajinkya Rahane and Ambati Rayudu put on 56 for the second wicket and then Stuart Binny and Dhoni added 70 for the sixth to try and revive a flagging innings , but a crippling spell from Finn broke both partnerships to restrict India to a sub-standard total. Barring those two stands , the rest of Indias partnerships were 1 , 7 , 1 , 2 , 0 , 6 , 10 and 0. Rarely are ODI matches won with production like that . The unwelcome news of last-match centurion Rohit Sharma missing out on account of a hamstring injury hung over all through India 's batting. Anderson had Shikhar Dhawan caught behind for 1 with a delivery that angled across from the left-hander batsman , and the left-hand openers latest failure brought in Rayudu at No 3 instead of Virat Kohli . India 's struggles could be gauged from the fact that their first four came off the last ball of the seventh over when Rayudu whacked Anderson over midwicket. Finn , who used slow bouncers to good effect , extracted Rahane for 33 with one such delivery , the batsman finding Taylor at mid-on just outside the 30-yard circle . Kohli ( 4 ) and Rayudu ( 23 ) fell in a similar manner , trying to glide Finn down towards third man but instead found the wicketkeeper Jos Buttler. Sandwiched between Kohli and Rayudu 's scalps was the wicket of Suresh Raina ( 1 ) who nexplicably left the crease to play a defensive shot and was out stumped off the bowling of Ali . Five down with just 67 on the board , Binny joined Dhoni and both raised hopes of a fighting total but Finn threw a spanner in India 's plans with another slow bouncer. Dhoni , cramped for room , tickled the ball down the leg side to give Buttler his fourth catch. The skipper made 34 , the second highest contribution to a sorry total . Axar Patel had his second successive duck when he lost his stumps to Anderson. Binny , who replaced R Ashwin for this game , looked impressive during his 55-ball 44 but Anderson removed him and Mohammed Shami in quick time to wrap up the India innings. The Indians lost their last five wickets for just 16 runs . After such an abject performance with the bat , India needed to take early wickets to make a match of it. That came from Binny , who opened the bowling and had Ali ( 8 ) spooning a clever slower delivery to mid-off , but that was India 's only success in the field. Bell overcame a duck against Australia to score a confident 88 off 91 balls - his first fifty in ten games - and with Taylor ( again given the chance to solidify the No 3 spot ) - he put England on track for a facile win. Taylor 's busy innings contained four fours and came off 63 balls. The target was achieved in 27.3 overs to earn England a bonus point . They next play Australia on Friday at Bellerive Oval . Brief scores : India 153 all out in 39.3 overs ( Binny 44 , Dhoni 34 ; Finn 5 for 33 , Anderson 4 for 18 ) lose to England 156 for 1 in 27.3 overs ( Bell 88 * , Taylor 56 * ) by nine wickets © Cricbuzz
