Countdown to ICC Cricket World Cup , 2015 ( Full Coverage ) WC Countdown # 24 - Clive Lloyd 's 'tactical ' drop catch 2015/Jan/20 05 : 44 : 00 , by Bharath Ramaraj Text Size 'Super Cat ' Clive Lloyd was quite cunning in the 1979 World Cup final © Getty During his illustrious career , Geoffrey Boycott , with his correct and risk-free technique , provided a sense of reliability at top of the order for England. However , he had his share of critics , who believed that he was a bit selfish and not quite suited for limited overs . When England took on the powerful West Indies side in the all-important World Cup final at Lord 's in 1979 , Boycott was expected to stand up and weather the storm posed by the fearsome foursome of Michael Holding , Colin Croft , Joel Garner and Andy Roberts , and set a platform for the likes of David Gower , Derek Randell , Graham Gooch and Ian Botham to provide the finishing touches . In the final , England won the toss and were in the ascendancy , when they snared four wickets upfront. Unfortunately they were then put to the sword by Viv Richards ' flashing blade. Richards clouted 138 as West Indies set the hosts a daunting target of 287 in 60 overs . When England came out to bat , both Mike Brearley , the captain , and Geoffrey Boycott held fort against the Windies pacers in a dour manner. Initially it looked like their patient vigil at the crease would give England a strong foundation for the middle-order to come into play. But the required run-rate started to climb and the jam-packed crowd yearning for the hosts to win were getting restless. Boycott , in particular , was batting at a snail 's pace. By around the 17th over of the game , the England opener had just reached double figures. The opening pair was n't even looking to play aggressively against Richards ' friendly off-spin ! After a drinks break though , Boycott decided that it was time to up the ante. He danced down the wicket to Richards , but it came off the bottom of the bat and he could only hit it to Clive Lloyd , who had positioned himself at wide mid-on. However , Lloyd , one of the best fielders going around at that time , dropped a dolly. That drop had even the home crowd moaning in dismay as they knew that if Boycott had continued to bat for any longer , the home team had little chance of tasting victory. To make it more interesting , even Brearley was dropped earlier by Lloyd . Putting down a very easy chance led to speculations that Lloyd had done it on purpose. In fact , when the West Indies ' captain was about to take the catch , Andy Roberts was seen shouting 'Drop it , drop it ! ' Lloyd later clarified it was n't a deliberate tactic. " I could have watched both Brearley and Boycott all day because I knew every over they batted was another nail in their coffin , " said Lloyd. He added : " A lot of people suggested I put it down purposefully just to keep Boycott in. Not true , but it would n't have been a bad tactic. " Viv Richards remarked more mischievously on the incident. " We were n't too worried when Lloyd contrived to drop Boycott , " he said . When the catch was dropped , the score read 79 for 0 after 25 overs. It was crystal clear that the West Indies were destined to win the World Cup for the second time. Graham Gooch biffed his way to 32 but it was too little too late as Garner ripped through the batting line-up and West Indies emerged victorious by 92 runs . © Cricbuzz
