Ranji Trophy 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Dominant Karnataka bolstered by KL Rahul return Mysore , 2015/Jan/20 06 : 08 : 00 , by Vineet Ramakrishnan Text Size KL Rahul scored his maiden Test century against Australia at the SCG earlier this month. © Getty The sizeable crowd gathered around the periphery of the Srikantadatta Narasimha Raja Wadeyar Ground - commonly known as the Gangotri Glades - sought a glimpse of India 's latest Test debutant , KL Rahul , who was back training with his Karnataka team-mates ahead of their 2014-15 Ranji Trophy Group A fixture against Baroda , after an eventful tour of Australia . Rahul put in the hard yards in the nets among the first batch of players to take the nets for the batting session. After a few knockdowns , he proceeded calmly to the dressing room as the crowd chanted his name. Coming off a century in his second Test , against Australia at the SCG earlier this month , Rahul has tasted success at the highest level after a forgettable debut - and what he brings back to the team with which he forged a successful bid to break into India 's Test team can only be critical. Rahul 's return means that Karnataka have left out opener Mayank Agarwal . Fast bowler HS Sharath , who suffered a side strain during the game against Madhya Pradesh , has also been given a rest with Sreenath Aravind , who missed that fixture , coming back in his place. Belgaum-born pacer Ronit More has also been added to the squad . Karnataka , who had to be content with only three points against MP , will be aiming for their fifth outright win this season and with the pitch expected to assist the seamer , Vinay sounded confident about achieving it. " The pitch looks good. It is a typical Mysore track with seamer getting some purchase early on and then spinners having their say. We are looking for an outright win for sure , " he said . For Karnataka , the other player to watch out for will be Manish Pandey who scored 193 against MP. The Mysore track has been a happy hunting ground for the 25-year-old , two centuries coming from the seven games he has played here . The Gangotri Glades Cricket Ground , situated in the University of Karnataka campus , has so far hosted nine Ranji Trophy games , with Karnataka registering two outright wins. The only time they tasted defeat here was in the 2009-10 Ranji Trophy final , which they lost to Mumbai by six runs , despite Pandey 's belligerent 144 . With 15 points from five games , Baroda are currently third on the points table and will hope to continue their momentum. The team , led by Aditya Waghmode , has taken 13 points from their last three fixtures. The have been boosted by the return to form of Irfan Pathan , who scored a match-winning 98 against Uttar Pradesh and claimed three wickets in the last game against Railways . Speaking at the press briefing ahead of the game , Waghmode stated that their plan is to play simple cricket against the formidable opponents. " We are not thinking who our opponents are , " said Waghmode. " We have 15 points from five games and in the last three fixtures we have been able to gain a fair bit of momentum. We will try to continue that. The wicket here is really good. It is not a flat track , but runs will come once a batsman applies himself. " Irfan and Yusuf Pathan were absent during the practice session , but Waghmode reaffirmed that both will play the game. However , Munaf Patel is still not back with the team as he is away for his sister 's marriage . Baroda will be banking on in-form players like Deepak Hooda , who has so far scored a hundred and a fifty in his debut season , and pace bowlers Swapnil Singh and Sagar Mangalorkar. Swapnil leads the wicket-takers ' tally for Baroda with 22 scalps from five games , while 24-year-old Mangalorkar - who hails from Mangalore , incidentally - has done reasonably well with 14 wickets from three games in his first Ranji Trophy season . Probable XIs Karnataka : 1 Robin Uthappa , 2. KL Rahul , 3 , Kunal Kapoor , 4 Manish Pandey , 5 Karun Nair , 6 CM Gautam ( wk ) , 7 Shreyas Gopal , 8 Vinay Kumar ( capt ) , 9 Abhimanyu Mithun , 10 Udit Patel , 11. Sreenath Aravind Baroda : 1 Saurabh Waksarkar , 2 Kedar Devdhar , 3 Aditya Waghmode ( capt ) , 4 Hardik Pandya , 5 Yusuf Pathan , 6 Deepak Hooda , 7 Irfan Pathan , 8 Pinal Shah ( wk ) , 9 Swapnil Singh , 10 Gagandeep Singh , 11 Sagar Mangalorkar . © Cricbuzz
