Ranji Trophy 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Weather looms large over crucial Railways-J&K game New Delhi , 2015/Jan/20 06 : 24 : 00 , by Aditya Bhattacharya Text Size Karn Sharma will bolster Railways ' bowling resources. © AFP A returning Karn Sharma will enhance Railways ' bowling stocks during their 2014-15 Ranji Trophy Group A fixture against Jammu & Kashmir at the Karnail Singh Stadium starting Wednesday. Karn , who was a part of India 's Test squad in Australia , missed the first five matches and his inclusion will come in handy for the hosts who have troubled the opposition with spin in their last two matches . After a promising beginning to the season , both Railways ' and J&K 's inability to maintain that consistency has hurt them. While J&K 's dream win over Mumbai was followed by a couple of defeats and three draws , Railways are yet to win a game . Railways are currently seventh on the points table as compared to J&K , who are fifth. With the league stage approaching the business end , both teams are in desperate need of an outright win if they plan to make it to the knock-outs. Karn 's return means that Railways will drop a batsman , and Prashant Awasthi looks the likely candidate . The home side 's progress has also been hampered by bad weather. Of the four matches played at home , four have been hit by rain , bad light or a combination of both. The one match they played in Chennai against hosts Tamil Nadu also eventually turned out to be a rain-affected encounter. With more possibility of rain in the next two days , the least Railways would try and do is get three points . " I think rain has a thing for us. It follows us wherever we go , " Railways coach Harvinder Singh said. " While there has been no hiding the fact that the weather here has been our Achilles Heel , it even made its essence felt in the only away game we 've played. " Harvinder also raised concerns about the pitch , which according to him has a lot of water built up in it. " The pitch looks very wet. I think the water content provided to the surface is a lot more. It looks a lot damp as compared to the pitches we 've earlier played on. I hope there is good sunshine for at least a couple of hours , which might be able to soak it up a bit , " he said . Railways ' batting has been their biggest letdown. The batsmen have failed to back the inspired bowling performances from medium-pacers Anureet Singh and KK Upadhyay and later on by spinners Avinash Yadav , Arnab Nandi and Ashish Yadav. Barring the first two matches , where they were able to take three points against Madhya Pradesh and Mumbai respectively , the remaining games have been forgettable . Things have n't been quite the same for J&K since their much-talked about win over Mumbai. They have suffered defeats at the hands of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka and subsequent draws against Baroda , Uttar Pradesh and Bengal have further dented their campaign. Even in terms of individual performances , only Ian Dev Singh has been among the runs. Shubham Khajuria was another campaigner who showed signs of promise , but his absence due to an injured shoulder has only made things stiffer for Parvez Rasool and his team . The batting will majorly revolve around Rasool and Ian Dev. With one century and four fifties , the latter has continued his good run of form from the previous edition of the competition and he is currently fourth in the run-scorers ' list. Rasool , after an average beginning , hit a fine century against Baroda and will be keen on getting some more runs in this all-important match . Coach Sunil Joshi fancies J&K 's chances against Railways. " Our batting has n't impressed quite as much as our bowling , but the batsmen are getting into the scoring mould , " he said at the end of the team 's practice session on Tuesday. " Shubham 's [ Khajuria ] absence is a huge blow but we have the firepower to come good. In today 's day and age , any team can beat anyone and I hope our team can get back to winning ways provided the weather remains stable. " Probable XIs Railways : 1 Abhishek Kaushik , 2 Rohan Bhosale , 3 Arindam Ghosh , 4 Mahesh Rawat ( capt/wk ) , 5Ashish Yadav , 6 Arnab Nandi , 7 Karn Sharma , 8 Anureet Singh , 9 Avinash Yadav , 10 Ranjit Mali , 11 KK Upadhyay . J&K : 1 Adil Reshi , 2 Imran Haroon , 3 Obaid Haroon ( wk ) , 4 Ian Dev Singh , 5 Parvez Rasool ( capt ) , 6 Shubham Pundir , 7 Bandeep Singh , 8 Aamir Aziz , 9 Ram Dayal Punia , 10 Waseem Raza , 11 Mohammed Mudhasir . © Cricbuzz
