Ranji Trophy 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) UP , Bengal eye revival of fortunes New Delhi , 2015/Jan/20 09 : 43 : 00 , by Tanmoy Mookherjee Text Size Wriddhiman Saha scored a century against J-K on his return from the tour of Australia. © Getty A day before the seventh-round fixtures of the 2014-15 Ranji Trophy gets under way , teams making up Group A - the 'Elite ' ones of the competition - cut a sorry figure. Karnataka , who have gone undefeated since November 2013 , lead the charts with four victories out of five matches , followed by Tamil Nadu , who are a full 12 points behind the table-toppers. There is a gulf between the remaining seven teams . Ahead of their match at the Mohan Meakins stadium in Ghaziabad , Uttar Pradesh lie at the bottom of the table , and they host Bengal who are in sixth position without a single victory. Playing at their third 'home ' venue , UP are hoping to put behind disappointments after winning their opening match against Madhya Pradesh , especially against Tamil Nadu in their previous encounter , where they lost by an innings and 49 runs. If UP are to turn around their campaign , their batting must fare better . Opener Tanmay Srivastava is the only UP batsman with a century after five matches , and captain Piyush Chawla is the second-highest run-getter for the side. Chawla bats at No 7 for UP , but his impressive numbers show up a glaring deficiency in the rest of the UP batting. Their bowlers have fared much better thanks to the fast-bowling trio of Amit Mishra and India discards Praveen Kumar and RP Singh , and will remain their best bet against a strong Bengal line-up including Wriddhiman Saha , who scored a century in the previous fixture on his return from the tour of Australia . While equally disappointing in their games , a majority of which they played at home in favourable conditions , Bengal were also lifted by the presence of their senior wicketkeeper-batsman , who had missed the start of the season owing to national duty. The lack of a steady opening partnership has exposed the middle order early in seamer-friendly conditions , which was finally shored up by Saha . The batsmen have mixed fortunes , but it is their bowling that has disappointed and contributed to the team 's inability to close out innings , driven home by one look at the wickets column. After Ashok Dinda 's 21 wickets this season , the next best for Bengal is captain Laxmi Ratan Shukla and Veer Pratap Singh with eight. Bengal 's bowlers have accounted for 57 wickets this season , which is the lowest in the group followed by UP . With rain forecast on the second and third days , both UP and Bengals wait for an outright victory may be extended , but they would be looking to secure first-innings points with improved batting performances . Teams : Bengal ( From ) : Laxmi Shukla ( capt ) , Amit Banerjee , Ashok Dinda , Shreevats Goswami , Satyabrata Murmu , Veer Pratap Singh , Iresh Saxena , Arindam Das , Rohan Banerjee , Abhimanyu Easwaran , Saurasish Lahiri , Shib Paul , Sourav Sarkar , Manoj Tiwary , Sudip Chatterjee , Suvojit Banerjee , Pritam Chakraborty , Wriddhiman Saha ( wk ) , Amitava Banerjee Uttar Pradesh ( From ) : Piyush Chawla ( capt ) , Eklavya Dwivedi ( wk ) , Arish Alam , Amit Mishra , Imtiyaz Ahmed , Kuldeep Yadav , Ali Murtaza , Ankit Rajpoot , RP Singh , Prashant Gupta , Akash Verma , Amir Khan , Mukul Dagar , Israr Azim , Praveen Kumar , Parvinder Singh , Umang Sharma , Tanmay Srivastava , Himanshu Asnora , Akshdeep Nath © Cricbuzz
