South Africa vs West Indies 2014-15 3rd ODI preview : Windies look for turnaround after de Villiers ' special 2015/Jan/20 12 : 35 : 00 West Indies will have to dig deep © AFP Overview West Indies were swept away by an AB de Villiers ' special on Sunday when the South African star hammered the fastest ODI century in history to help the hosts take a 2-0 series lead at the Wanderers in Johannesburg. That historic knock left the Caribbean side bewildered and searching for answers to make a comeback in the five-match series. The third ODI in East London presents them with a chance to redeem themselves and stop the hosts from taking the series . For South Africa , a series win will be the perfect opportunity for them to search for consistency ahead of the World Cup and finding their perfect combination. With the top order in red-hot form , they will once again hope to bat the West Indies out of the game. With the pitch at Buffalo Park slated to be slower as compared to that at the Wanderers , the bowlers will come into picture and it could all boil down to who makes it tougher for the opposition batsmen to score . South Africa AB de Villiers and his team will aim to seal the series before tinkering with their playing XI. Kyle Abbott , Aaron Phangiso and Wayne Parnell , all part of the World Cup side , are yet to play a game in the series and they may have to wait once more before getting some international exposure before next month 's mega event. One area that has not been fully tested for South Africa is their lower middle order with players like JP Duminy , David Miller and Farhaan Behardien not getting a decent hit in the middle. On the bowling front , Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel and Vernon Philander have been incisive enough and that has not allowed any pressure on Imran Tahir . Probable XI : 1 Hashim Amla , 2 Rilee Rossouw , 3 Faf du Plessis 4 AB de Villiers ( captain & wicketkeeper ) , 5 JP Duminy , 6 Farhaan Behardien , 7 David Miller , 8 Vernon Philander , 9 Dale Steyn 10 Morne Morkel , 11 Imran Tahir . West Indies The slower nature of the pitch at Buffalo Park gives the West Indies a chance to make an impact with the ball and come up with an improved performance. Sheldon Cottrell could find his way into the team after Jerome Taylor went for plenty in the de Villiers ' carnage. All the bowlers , including captain Jason Holder will have to bring their A game in order to challenge a marauding South Africa. Chris Gayle , who is without an ODI hundred since the last 14 games , could provide that catalyst with an inspirational show. Lendl Simmons could replace Leon Johnson in the top three provided he is fit. Seniors like Dwayne Smith and Marlon Samuels will eye a big knock . Probable XI : 1 Chris Gayle , 2 Dwayne Smith , 3 Lendl Simmons/Leon Johnson , 4 Marlon Samuels , 5 Denesh Ramdin ( wicketkeeper ) , 6 Jonathan Carter , 7 Andre Russell , 8 Darren Sammy , 9 Jason Holder ( captain ) , 10 Jerome Taylor/Sheldon Cottrell , 11 Sulieman Benn . Stats South Africa have won 12 out of 16 ODIs in East London. West Indies have lost their only ODI at Buffalo Park , by 43 runs in 1999 . © Cricbuzz
