Ranji Trophy 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Rasool , Joshi dwell on J&K 's steady growth 2015/Jan/20 21 : 39 : 00 , by Aditya Bhattacharya Text Size Parvez Rasool and Sunil Joshi are happy with the team 's development. © TNN It was a sight to behold when the Jammu and Kashmir players charged from the sidelines once Obaid Haroon called Hardeep Singh for the winning single during their famous Ranji Trophy win against Mumbai in December last year. It was understandable. In their build-up to the season , the state had witnessed devastating floods , due to which not only did J&K lose out on their home matches but also had their preparations affected for almost a month . The win against Mumbai was the perfect beginning , but J&K 's joyride of beating the 40-time Ranji Trophy champions came to a halt after defeats against Tamil Nadu and Karnataka and subsequent draws against Baroda , Uttar Pradesh and Bengal. The game against Railways starting Wednesday is an all-important one , but the possibility of heavy showers might very well end their campaign this season . However , Parvez Rasool , the flag bearer of J&K cricket , looked unperturbed by the permutations and combinations on the eve of the match. " It 's a very important game since the group is wide open. The good thing from our point of view is that the teams above us are facing each other. So provided we are able to pull off an outright win here , it will raise our chances of making it to the next round , " Rasool told Cricbuzz on Tuesday . For the first time in Ranji Trophy 's 80-year history , J&K made their way through to the quarter-finals last season and the side has done fairly well this year too. According to Rasool , the win over Delhi in the Vijay Hazare Trophy last year was what set the tone for the remainder of the season . " A lot of positives have come by ever since we began this year 's domestic season. We started off well in the Vijay Hazare Trophy when we beat Delhi in the opener. A side that has the likes of Virender Sehwag , Gautam Gambhir and Ashish Nehra , coming on top against them made us believe in ourselves more than ever. That particular victory is what I believe made us raise our game , which was evident in the game against Mumbai , " Rasool said . " The entire flood episode was no doubt very unfortunate , but the way we responded was something I believe not every side is capable of doing. We received a lot of support from the JKCA [ the Jammu Kashmir Cricket Association ] as they helped in setting up a 10-day training camp in Mohali and Nagpur. I am a little disappointed that after the Mumbai win , the results have n't been in our favour but I 'm happy with the way we have performed so far . " Yes , there were defeats against Tamil Nadu and Karnataka , but we did well against Baroda , where we took a first-innings lead. Even against Bengal , we were in a position to bag three points but a few errors by the batsmen did for us. " J&K 's rise was a process that their skipper reckoned had a lot to do with former coach Bishan Singh Bedi. Having been billed " minnows " for years , J&K are not pushovers anymore. Rasool said the team owed a lot to Bedi . " Bishan Singh Bedi inculcated in us the hunger and the desire to win. Before he took over , cricket in J&K was down. From the moment he took charge of the side , he made us feel that we are no less. There is a lot of potential in the side and I do n't see why we ca n't perform better , " he said . " The morale in the team is good and everyone is willing to contribute , Shubham [ Khajuria ] went out but Imran Harron came in and scored a century on his debut. These are good signs , and performance is what speaks. No one underestimates us now. " Rasool was part of India 's 30 probables for the World Cup. The fact that he is in the reckoning for the national team has brought out the best in him at the domestic level. " When you 're in the fray , it motivates you to give your 100 percent. For many , dealing with batting , bowling and captaining a side can be a tough ask , but I relish my role in all the three departments. The century against Baroda was a timely one and I hope I can register more such scores. In terms of batting , I am working on the technical aspects with Sunil Joshi and being a spinner himself , his feedback is of much importance to me , " he said . Head coach Sunil Joshi took over the reins from Bedi in November last year. In terms of the overall assessment of the side , the former India spinner reckons the current crop of players in the J&K side possesses immense credentials to succeed as quality cricketers . " This this team has a lot of potential. Although it 's too early to speak about their maturity and all , but all the players have amazing temperament , " Joshi said. We did n't have an experienced squad but we 've played well as a unit. Based on the type of talent we have in our ranks and time we 've all spent together , it 's a great feeling for me as a coach. I 'm happy to have chosen a right team to coach , " he said . Consistency though is an area Joshi believes his team needs to work on. The former left-arm spinner emphasised the importance of playing as many away matches as possible ; for according to him , it gives the players a different type of confidence and self-belief . " The off-season is extremely crucial. Perhaps , I will ask the officials to conduct more away matches as one needs to play out of their comfort zone to hone their skills to the next level. Ian Dev [ Singh ] scored a splendid century in Mumbai and ever since , he 's looked a completely different player , " Joshi said . However , the lack of spinner-friendly tracks in the country nowadays is what bothers Joshi the most. Joshi , who bowled left-arm spin in his cricketing days , raised the issue of fewer spinning tracks in the country and said the BCCI needs to take some serious measures . " It 's time the BCCI did something about pitches supporting spin in India. Just like there is the MRF pace academy for fast bowlers , the board should come up with something for spinners. The BCCI needs to understand the importance of spin and how spinners need to be nurtured from a young age. A professional should be hired who constantly monitors the entire proceedings. " © Cricbuzz
