— Cricbuzz ( @ cricbuzz ) January 22 , 2015 Update : Supreme Court CAN rule on BCCI proceedings . India 's top court informed that the BCCI were indeed amenable to article 226. This essentially means that the court can rule on BCCI proceedings. Incidentally , BCCI counsel , Kapil Sibal , had argued that ''even a Supreme Court appointed probe panel must abide by the rules and regulations laid out by BCCI and IPL governing council.'' India 's highest court of law added, To discharge their public functions , BCCI is given the authority by the Government of India. Therefore , they are not merely a private body. BCCI functions are public functions and are amenable to judicial law . CSK 's fate hangs in the balance after Meiyappan was ruled to have been a 'team official'. © Agencies Update : Gurunath Meiyappan and Raj Kundra are team officials Contrary to claims from India Cements that Gurunath Meiyappan was just a 'cricket enthusiast ' , the Supreme Court of India ruled that Meiyappan and Raj Kundra ( Rajasthan Royals ) were indeed 'Team Officials ' and have indulged in betting . This could have a direct implication on the future of the Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals. According to IPL rules , they now face eviction from the league . The court acknowledged that BCCI has the power to decide on the fate of Rajasthan Royals and Chennai Super Kings but that it can not allow the BCCI to do so in the current context. The top court then instructed the formation of an independent committee consisting of senior judges to investigate the concern areas. Fate of the IPL teams will now be decided by the separate committee and not by the IPL governing council The 3-member committee of former judges RM Lodha , Ashok Bhan & RV Ravindran has been constituted to recommend reforms and amendments to BCCI rules. The committee will also on sports fraud , conflict of interest and future of Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals . The committee has six months to dispense punitive measures to the guilty. However , it is not clear if the team will be allowed to participate in the next edition of the Indian Premier League . Tweet : Cover Up ? NOT guilty # IPLVerdict : Clean chit to N Srinivasan. Allegations of cover-up against him not proven . — Cricbuzz ( @ cricbuzz ) January 22 , 2015 Update : Not guilty of a cover-up The Supreme Court of India ruled that allegations against the BCCI President-in exile , N Srinivasan 's potential cover-up act were not proven. The court added that the charges at best can be regarded as suspicion. The court also upheld the clause that allowed Srinivasan to buy a stake in the Chennai franchise . The court however added : There is a need for institutional integrity that needs to be brought into the game of cricket . Update : Amendment to rule 6.2.4 struck down Rule 6.2.4 of the IPL was amended by BCCI to allow administrators to have commercial interests in the IPL. The Supreme Court of India decided to strike the amendment down . BCCI clause 6.2.4 before amendment : No administrator shall have , directly or indirectly , any commercial interest in the matches and events conducted by the board . The clause after amendment : No administrator shall have , directly or indirectly , any commercial interest in any of the events of BCCI , excluding IPL , Champions League and Twenty20 . If the purity of the game is undermined then the essence of the game will be lost. Rule 6.2.4 is unsustainable and illegal Update : BCCI President or CSK owner ? Choose one or the other . The Supreme Court of India ruled that N Srinivasan can not continue to hold dual roles - that of a BCCI administrator and a franchise-owner , at the same time. The President-in exile was ordered to choose either his position as the BCCI president or that of the owner of the Chennai Super Kings franchise . The clause that allowed Srinivasan to own an IPL team is the true villain in this case . Meanwhile , the top-court added that allegations against IPL COO , Sundar Raman being in the know-how of misdemeanors , and allegations of him being in contact with bookies , will need to be probed further . Tweet : Srinivasan can not contest BCCI elections BREAKING : N Srinivasan can not contest in BCCI elections rules Supreme Court. # IPLVerdict # IPLSpotFixing — Cricbuzz ( @ cricbuzz ) January 22 , 2015 Update : Srinivasan can not contest BCCI elections In a major blow to Srinivasan 's chances of getting re-elected as the President of BCCI , the Supreme Court barred the incumbent president from contesting in the upcoming elections. The court however added that BCCI may hold it 's elections within six weeks but people having vested commercial interests within the board may not contest . N Srinivasan or any other cricket administrator having commercial interests in cricket can not contest for BCCI posts till they continue to have those interests . Twitter Reactions : Landmark ruling — Bishan Bedi ( @ BishanBedi ) January 22 , 2015 Very confusing : Srinivasan ca n't contest till he gives up commercial interests in BCCI ! Does he give up CSK or India Cements ? # IPLVerdict — Sanjay Dixit , IAS ( @ Sanjay_Dixit ) January 22 , 2015 Extremely happy with the Hon. Supreme Court judgement on # srinivasan ..always believed that I would be vindicated # IPLVerdict — Lalit Kumar Modi ( @ LalitKModi ) January 22 , 2015 © Cricbuzz
