Ranji Trophy 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Ranadeb comes on board to inspire Bengal bowlers 2015/Jan/21 22 : 41 : 00 , by Tanmoy Mookherjee Text Size Can Ranadeb Bose help Bengal 's bowlers improve ? © TNN As Uttar Pradesh coach Venkatesh Prasad engaged himself in a spot of foot-volleyball when their game against Bengal was yet to begin at the Mohan Meakins cricket stadium owing to poor light , another familiar face was seen hard at work with the visiting side. He was of a similar build , bounding up and down the dressing-room stairs to tend to the team he has been appointed bowling consultant for the next two games . Ranadeb Bose is in town assisting head coach Ashok Malhotra with the Bengal bowling attack that has failed to bowl out sides this season , a reflection of which is seen in the points table where they lie sixth in Group A without any win. A month away from turning 36 , Ranadeb is younger than the oldest Bengal player in the current squad but quit first-class cricket two seasons ago , and had already begun earning his stripes to become a coach . His credentials had already earned him a coaching role with Cricket Association of Bengal 's 'Vision 2020 ' , a programme to develop a steady stream of players fit to represent the national team. But all it needed was a call from former India captain and CAB 's joint secretary Sourav Ganguly to convince him to help out Bengal 's current crop of bowlers . " It was a surprise , because I was associated with the Vision 2020 , looking after the Under-19 and Under-23 boys and had a pool of bowlers to look after , " Ranadeb told Cricbuzz on Wednesday. " Bengal had played five games already and I did n't know what was happening as I was involved in other things. But Dada suddenly called me and said he wanted me to be part of this side , which came to me as a surprise. I had some experience with state sides and have played a little bit of cricket... I can only share my experience and see how things go from there. " If by " a little bit of cricket " he meant a glittering first-class career that saw him take 317 first-class wickets from 91 matches spanning 15 years , Ranadeb was being unusually modest. In fact , the last time Bengal reached the final of the Ranji Trophy - in 2006-07 - Ranadeb had led the way with 57 wickets in the season with six five-wicket hauls , including one in the final against Mumbai . An India call-up followed for the 2007 tour of England , but that was as far as he could go as he only featured in two warm-up games , including one against Sri Lanka A where he took a five-for. He had accepted his fate early , and hence the swift transition into coaching came along. After a tryst with IPL team Pune Warriors India led him to the role of bowling coach for Bangladesh 's National Cricket Academy , he became coach of their Under-19 team . Ranadeb 's former new-ball partner , Ashok Dinda , has been the flagbearer of the Bengal bowling attack of late but has found little support from the other end. Dinda has 21 wickets to show for this season , but the next best is eight from Laxmi Ratan Shukla and Veer Pratap Singh. Ranadeb 's first assessment of the quagmire Bengal 's Ranji team finds itself in is that he has seen worse. But he seems to have identified a few problems at the surface . " Fast bowlers or spinners always hunt in pairs. This year , we went in with the same bowling attack as last year. Unfortunately , Shib Shankar Paul is not in the best of form , which can happen. Pritam Chakraborty made his debut in his place and even Veer Pratap Singh initially struggled for a couple of games - it becomes difficult for a guy like Dinda to bowl with a new partner every time , which has been happening , " he said. " That is a big reason. You need coordination and understanding ; 'if he 's getting wickets , I 'll stick to my line and length and wo n't try something funny. ' " " My job is to give them confidence and some responsibility , " he said. " I 'm not asking them to take wickets - probably showing them a way to take wickets instead of asking them to give me five wickets. I would probably tell them to follow a particular direction , in the course of time they would end up getting wickets. If they do n't , it does n't matter , but do what you have been asked to do. A little bit of work ethic , discipline on and off the field. What I have done for the last 15 years is something I want to tell them that this is a way. If you feel you can follow - you are a professional - you take the best out of it. " The lack of discipline was glaring earlier this season , where a Dinda-inspired Bengal had reduced Karnataka to 69 for 5 on the opening morning , but were carried away by the pace and bounce on the Eden Gardens wicket. Karnataka 's lower order propelled them to 408 thereafter and Bengal succumbed to an innings defeat . By his own admission , Ranadeb could be here " for the next two games at best " , but Bengal 's bowlers would do well to sponge off someone for whom discipline not only meant keeping a tight line , but that he could bowl 10,708 deliveries without overstepping once . © Cricbuzz
