Australia tri-series 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) England target depleted Australia in final race New Delhi , 2015/Jan/22 01 : 09 : 00 Text Size Cameron White has a chance to stake his claim for this World Cup. © Getty The equation for Australia at Hobart 's Bellerive Oval on Friday is simple : win and secure a spot in the Carlton Mid Tri-Series final on February 1. For England , coming off a massive win over India , the challenge is to repeat that against the team that beat them with three wickets and 61 balls remaining in the series opener last week. Australia have bossed Australia in limited-overs cricket in recent years , but without three first-choice players for game four of the competition they will need to play harder to beat England . With two wins out of two , Australia lead the points table with nine while England are second after taking a bonus point from a nine-wicket thrashing of India at the Gabba earlier in the week. That win was their biggest win in terms of balls remaining ( 135 ) in the ODI format and Eoin Morgan will hope it proves a catalyst for a turnaround in fortunes after a chastising 2014 . Considering the ease with which England bowled out India 153 in 39.3 overs , with Steven Finn and James Anderson sharing nine wickets , and then chased down the target in 27.3 overs , there is no need to tinker the team . Australia will be without captain George Bailey , who is serving a one-match suspension for a poor over-rate against India , David Warner and Shane Watson. Shaun Marsh will fill in for Warner at the top while Bailey 's absence has created an ODI opportunity for batsman Cameron White after nearly four years , and the Victorian comes into the match with good limited-overs form this season. The pair now has the chance to stake their claims for a last-minute inclusion to Australia 's ICC World Cup squad should Michael Clarke fail to meet the February 2 deadline to recover from a hamstring injury . Watson 's latest injury means that the management will likely slot in an extra bowler in Pat Cummins and bump James Faulkner up a spot to No 7. Steven Smith will captain in place of Bailey - the first time he has got the chance in ODIs - and will be key to the batting prospects . Australia have lost one ODI in Hobart in the last five and half years , to India in 2012 . Probable XIs Australia : 1 Aaron Finch , 2 Shaun Marsh , 3 Steven Smith ( capt ) , 4 Cameron White , 5 Glenn Maxwell , 6 Brad Haddin ( wk ) , 7 James Faulkner , 8 Mitchell Starc , 9 Pat Cummins , 10 Xavier Doherty , 11 Gurinder Sandhu England : 1 Ian Bell , 2 Moeen Ali , 3 James Taylor , 4 Joe Root , 5 Eoin Morgan ( capt ) , 6 Jos Buttler ( wk ) , 7 Ravi Bopara , 8 Chris Woakes , 9 Stuart Broad , 10 James Anderson , 11 Steven Finn © Cricbuzz
