IPL 2013 : Spot fixing controversy ( Full Coverage ) IPL spot-fixing verdict : SC 's key observations New Delhi , 2015/Jan/22 04 : 55 : 00 Text Size N Srinivasan has been ordered by the Supreme Court not to contest in the BCCI elections. © PTI Supreme Court on Thursday ordered that the long-delayed Board of Control for Cricket in India elections be held within six weeks and has barred anyone with commercial interests from contesting then. BCCI 's annual general meeting was due in September 2014 but it has stalled that process owing to the case in the highest court . The following are the key takeaways from the judgement delivered by Justice TM Thakur and Justice FMI Khalifullah in a packed courtroom on Thursday . BCCI may not be State as defined by Article 226 of the Constitution but is amenable to writ. It can not be said to be undertaking private activity when discharging pervasive control over public functions . Gurunath Meiyappan and Raj Kundra have been held to be team officials of Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals respectively and have indeed been indulging in betting activities . Action is permissible under the Franchise Agreement between BCCI-IPL and franchises not only against the two persons but also against their respective franchises . There is no material to substantiate the allegation that N Srinivasan sought to cover up the probe into allegations of betting against Raj Kundra and Gurunath Meiyappan. There is nothing to show that Srinivasan had information that he suppressed . BCCI 's amendment to its rule 6.2.4 , allowing administrators to own IPL teams , has been held to be bad. Conflict of Interest is one area that has led to the current situation in IPL. When former players are engaged professionally as coaches , mentors etc , because of their skills , it does not fall under conflict of interest . Allegations against IPL COO Sundar Raman will to be probed further by an independent three-member committee comprising retired judges , Justice RM Lodha , Justice Ashok Bhan and Justice RV Ravindran. They will be assisted by the investigating officer BB Mishra . The powers to punish vest with BCCI but the quantum of punishment would be decided by the independent three-member committee of retired judges to remove apprehensions of bias and have transparency. The committee will also suggest changes to the BCCI Memorandum of Association and its Rules , especially with regard to streamlining elections , resolve conflict of interest should they arise despite Rule 6.2.4 . BCCI must hold elections within six weeks and no one who has commercial interest is qualified to contest elections . © Cricbuzz
