Ranji Trophy 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Business as usual for Rahul after India debut Mysore , 2015/Jan/22 10 : 13 : 00 , by Vineet Ramakrishnan Text Size KL Rahul enjoys the challenge of batting on the Mysore pitch. © Getty Fresh from his exploits in Australia , where he scored his maiden Test century in Sydney in the fourth Test , Karnataka 's KL Rahul continued his rich vein of form with an 89 for his state in the Ranji Trophy group A fixture against Baroda. Rahul entertained the spectators who had thronged the picturesque Gangotri Glades ground to see him bat , and even though he missed out on a century , he was " satisfied " with the way he played and feels that he is in a good space batting-wise . " I am happy with the way I played , the odd ball was doing something and I got a few boundaries down the leg side that made me comfortable , " said Rahul after the end of the day 's play. " At that time it would have been easy to relax and not focus on the next ball and that was the biggest challenge for me. And I am happy with the way I stuck it out there ; the focus level is really up there and I think I am in a good space , good zone. " While Rahul was fluent in his 160-ball stay that included ten boundaries and a six , Karnataka were in a spot of bother at the close of play. In reply to Baroda 's 335 , the defending champions finished the day at 235 for 6 , with only four wickets in hand and still 100 runs in arrears , the visiting team had the upper hand going into day three , but Rahul was confident that his team will pull through . " We have to come back tomorrow and put our heads into it. First of all we have to see off the first hour and then look to get those 100 runs to get to what they have got , and from there on build a good score , " he said. " And I 'm pretty sure we have the firepower to bowl them out the second time around. We have to come back and bat really well , and put up a good total for our bowlers. " Mysore has been a happy hunting ground for Rahul , who incidentally scored his maiden first-class century here in the 2012-13 Ranji season against Vidharbha. He said that the Mysore pitch offers something new every time he plays here , and he enjoys the challenge . " Mysore has been lucky for me , " said Rahul. " My first first-class hundred came here and I have always enjoyed coming here. The track always has surprises with different wickets and we love the challenge and the support the crowd always gives us. " Rahul felt that the track this time around was tougher to bat on. He took time to settle in the first session before going for his shots post lunch. " It is a sporting wicket. A few cracks are opening up and the odd ball is doing something. It is a two-paced wicket , so getting runs was a bit tough , " he said . After lunch , Baroda too had their tails up with the pacers bowling a tight line and the spinners getting some extra bounce , but Rahul said he finds it easier when the bowlers are coming at him. " That period for me is easier when the opposition is coming at you , " he said. " There is a lot of noise and the game comes alive. They [ Baroda bowlers ] were putting the ball in the right areas. I love challenges and I was focusing more . " There will always be a time when the opposition will be on top and you have to respect that , and see that period off. I told myself to hang in there and I was getting in some good positions and getting the runs as well. On such wickets you have to play close to the body and play straighter and I was trying to do that. I am in good touch of late , so there are few things I like to do like play straighter , and I was able to do that. " © Cricbuzz
