Australia tri-series 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Smith : I 'll never forget this summer 2015/Jan/23 07 : 36 : 00 Text Size Steven Smith scored his third ODI century to guide Australia home. © Getty Australia captain Steven Smith credited his bowlers for restricting England in the death overs that limited their total to 303 for eight after being asked to bat in Hobart on Friday in the fourth ODI of the tri-series that also involves India . Thanks to Ian Bell and Joe Root , England looked all set for a late flourish in the final 10 overs of their innings. However , in the 42nd over , Gurinder Sandhu returned to ensnare Bell for 141 and then got rid of captain Eoin Morgan off the fourth delivery to peg them back. From thereon , the hosts kept picking regular wickets including three off three in the final over . " A lot of credit has to go to our bowlers for how they bowled in the last 20 overs to keep them down to 300. They are very good at how they bowl at the end and have clear plans , hopefully they can keep that up in the World Cup , " said Smith. " 300 was probably a good score for us to chase in the end. " Smith became the first batsman to score a century in both Test and ODI captaincy debut and his third century overall in the format helped Australia chase down 304 with a delivery to spare. Smith , who scored an unbeaten 102 , is enjoying a terrific run of form since the four-Test series against India and said he will never forget this phase of his international career. " It 's nice to get a few runs again tonight and get the boys over the line , " he said. " I 'll never forget this summer. I 've really enjoyed it , I 've just got to try and keep going and score runs while I 'm going well. " Australia reached the final of the tri-series undefeated and it was also in part thanks to Brad Haddin who gave Smith ample support after joining him in the middle at a tricky situation with the scorecard reading 216/5. Haddin scored 42 in an 81-run stand for the sixth wicket before departing in the 48th over. " I thought Haddin really took the pressure off me in the end today...outstanding. We let it go a little bit later than we would have liked to but Starc came in at the end and put away the first ball , " said Smith of Haddin 's knock . England captain Eoin Morgan said Australia 's bowling at the death overs proved to be the difference between the two sides. " Credit to Australia for how they bowled at the death. Having watched most of it and faced one ball of it , today was their day. It was extremely difficult to set up to and the variations were pretty good. I think 300 was about par. If they had n't bowled that well at the death we would have got 340-350 , a match-winning score , " he said. " [ It ] was n't a bad day in general. We played good cricket in stages. Ian Bell was magnificent but the last 10 overs let us down a little bit , " he said . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) More stories from Australia tri-series 2014-15
