India , Australia and England tri-series Kohli should bat at No 4 if it suits India 's strategy : Richards Brisbane , 2015/Jan/24 01 : 14 : 00 Text Size Kohli has struggled for form in the tri-series. © Getty Virat Kohli 's form may have taken a hit since dropping down to No 4 in the batting order. However , West Indian legend Sir Viv Richards feels that the aggressive batsman should continue to bat at No 4 , if that is what the Indian team requires. Kohli played at that position in the first two losses at Melbourne and Brisbane , scoring nine and four runs , respectively and that resulted in a huge debate in the cricketing circles. However , skipper MS Dhoni later justified this ploy saying that it allows the star batsman to control the innings , whether batting first or chasing a target . " I believe batting at No 4 is quite a good position for any good batsman , " said Richards. " On these bouncy Australian wickets , there will always be some batsmen who are going to get outdone by that , especially early in the order. It makes sense to have Kohli bat at that position in such a scenario as he can dictate terms whatever situation the match is in. " Kohli has quickly climbed up the popularity charts , not only among the fans but also among his colleagues , present and past. Richards , on his part , has always been a fan of Kohli 's attacking batsmanship. Kohli has even drawn parallels with Australian great , Ricky Ponting. Both Richards and Ponting though , played for most part of their careers at No 3 . " There are always some people who say that your best player should come in at No 3. But it is tough to say these things from the outside and you do n't know the team situation and you have to consider the conditions as well that are also an obvious factor here , " Richards explained . " In Australia and New Zealand you can lose wickets quickly and with Kohli at No 3 , he might be vulnerable. Coming in at No 4 , he will have a better perspective of the innings going forward. Whether batting first or chasing , he will know the requirements and bat accordingly , " he said . Richards summed up by saying that Kohli is good enough to bat at any position and win matches for his team. " As the best batsman of the side , you want him to play more overs. But he also has to be comfortable doing the job for you. I am sure this is something the team management ought to have discussed among themselves. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies )
