Australia tri-series 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Mitchell Marsh returns for Sydney clash Sydney , 2015/Jan/24 22 : 24 : 00 Text Size Mitchell Marsh returns to the Australian ODI team after suffering a hamstring injury during the Brisbane Test. © Getty Australia allrounder Mitchell Marsh is expected to return to the Australian team for their match against India at the SCG on January 26. Marsh , who missed two Tests and the first three ODIs due to hamstring injury which he sustained in Brisbane , is expected to bat and bowl in the match . On the other hand , Mitchell Johnson , who was rested for the Sydney Test due to hamstring soreness , is also expected to come back into the squad although he may play in the final at Perth on February 01. With three victories in three games , Australia have qualified for the tri-series final while India will have to win both their matches to qualify . The other change in the squad will be George Bailey , who will captain the side after missing the Hobart ODI due to a one-match suspension. Steven Smith , who created a new record by becoming the only batsman to score a century in both Test and ODI captaincy debut , will be the vice-captain . Johnson bowled with good pace during practice in Sydney and Bailey said it was not a pleasant sight facing him. " His pace was still pretty good and he 's had another good hit out today. He 's going reasonably well. I do n't think he 'll play tomorrow , he 'll be building up for Perth. " Bailey added the selectors were still finalising the bowling combination. Considering the slow nature of the SCG track , Xavier Doherty is expected to come back while Josh Hazlewood , who was rested for the first three ODIs due to the heavy workload in the Tests , will also feature . Speaking about Johnson 's availability , coach Darren Lehmann said his readiness for a rapid return needed to be figured out before Monday 's match. " I would think he 'd be fine now with that sort of break , I 'm excited to see how he 's bowling. Hopefully hes back to full fitness and full pace. For us it 's about getting him right to play now and back with the lads and enjoying the game of cricket , " he said . Johnson hopes that he can get back to short bursts of speed he utilised against England and South Africa in the first half of 2014. " I 've been bowling longer spells. That 's been at the back of my mind where I know I 'm going to be bowling four , five , six over spells that I ca n't be flat out every ball. It has dropped off a little bit. It 's been a big 15 months as well so it 's tough cricket. We go out there day in and day out and we work really hard and to be able to bowl 150kph every game Id be dreaming if I could do that. But Id like to be going back to bowling shorter spells again , " Johnson said . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) More stories from Australia tri-series 2014-15
