Australia tri-series 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Rohit out , Ishant and Jadeja available for Sydney ODI Sydney , 2015/Jan/24 23 : 58 : 00 Text Size Rohit Sharma has not yet recovered from the hamstring injury that he sustained in the first match of the tri-series against Australia in Melbourne. © Agencies Rohit Sharma has not recovered from the hamstring soreness and will miss the Sydney ODI against Australia on January 26. Speaking in the pre-match press conference , India skipper MS Dhoni said Rohit has not yet recovered from the injury he sustained during his knock of 138 against Australia at the MCG while Ishant Sharma and Ravindra Jadeja are available for selection . Ishant had suffered an ankle injury that ruled him out of the Sydney Test and the first two matches while Ravindra Jadeja has come back after suffering a left shoulder injury. In the pre-match practice session on Sunday , Ishant was the first to have a bat in the nets while Jadeja joined him soon. Dhoni said smart management of players will be essential heading into the World Cup . " We will have to decide whether we want to give them a few more net sessions before playing them or give them a game right away. When it comes to Jadeja we will also have to monitor his throwing ability and decide whether to have him in the deep to cover the big boundaries or have him inside the circle , " he said . When asked if not fielding the best starting XI was the main reason India lost their first two matches , Dhoni refuted the claim by stating , " We have been playing our best XI but we have been hampered by injuries. We do look to try different things but also look to win the game. There is no point in playing someone with a niggle with so less time into the World Cup. You might win the game but end up losing that player for the World Cup. I know this tournament is important but we do not want to lose our best players for the World Cup , " he said . The skipper also expressed his happiness with the way the players have prepared themselves mentally for the demanding schedule. India have been in Australia for close to three months and if they reach all the way to the final , they will not come back home till April . " The plus point was we knew about the schedule well in advance. It is more the mental than physical state that is important and since the guys knew about it , they had enough time to prepare themselves mentally for this busy season. It is important to switch off and switch on and breaks like this help you do that. In the last few days made sure that the practice sessions we have are more realistic. Give the players enough break but make sure the sessions are more purposeful. Today we will have a slightly lighter session followed by the game tomorrow , " Dhoni remarked . India have lost both their games in the tri-series and they need to win their last two games against Australia and England to qualify for the finals on February 01. If they lose to Australia , they will have to defeat England in their last league game at Perth by a bonus point to qualify . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) More stories from Australia tri-series 2014-15
