Australia tri-series 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Australia vs India , Tri-series Game 5 , Sydney : Preview 2015/Jan/25 00 : 34 : 00 Text Size India search for their first win on the Australia tour. © Getty Australia and India , pre-tournament favourites for the upcoming Cricket World Cup , have taken largely contrasting routes in the build-up to the big event. By virtue of their three wins , Australia sit pretty at the top of the table , having already booked their place for the final. The effects of a long tour has affected India adversely and they now find themselves facing , potentially two must-win games to make the tri-series final. Alternatively , if they lost the next one , they 'll have to then beat England by a bonus point and ensure that they trump Eoin Morgan 's men , even in the Net Run Rate battle. 26th of January marks a special day for both these Commonwealth countries. Australia celebrate the Australia Day and India , the Republic Day - An added motivation for both teams to put up a good show . Australia : Australia have enjoyed the perfect tune-up thus far. Their first two victories were set up by Mitchell Starc and their bursts with the new ball. Then , in their last game against England , Starc and James Faulkner came up with a fine exhibition of death bowling to restrict England to 303 , when they looked set to get much more. The batting has remained solid , if not flamboyant. The depth in batting has allowed the top-order to bat with freedom . For the India game , there are welcome returns to the squad. George Bailey will take over as captain missing the last game due to suspension. Mitchell Marsh has sufficiently recovered from an injury sustained during the Brisbane Test against India. David Warner and Shane Watson missed the Hobart ODI with hamstring injuries and It remains to be seen , if the think-tank would rush them for an inconsequential game. Mitchell Johnson , though fit , will make a return only for the final. However , Josh Hazlewood and Xavier Doherty are expected to play on Monday . India : The defending World Champions had a sorry day at the office against England. They were blown away by Steven Finn and James Anderson and there appear to be cracks creeping up into the famed batting line-up. There are question marks surrounding Shikhar Dhawan 's place in the side and Virat Kohli 's batting position. India 's two aggressive batsman at the top of the order have failed to get started. Rohit Sharma , India 's centurion against Australia in Melbourne , has been sidelined by a hamstring injury and will miss the encounter in Sydney . India , however , will be boosted by Ishant Sharma 's and Ravindra Jadeja 's steady return to fitness. Stuart Binny , who shone in an otherwise forgettable day against England , may keep his place even if India opt to for a two-spinner attack. Jadeja 's bowling readiness may help the team management make the choice among the three available spinners. A five day break after their twin defeats may augur well for a team that looks to regain its mental freshness . Pitch and Conditions : The wicket at Sydney is expected to be dry and is said to assist spin. However , there is a 60 % chance for rain , late on Monday afternoon. That may influence the team composition . Stats and Trivia : Sachin Tendulkar scored a masterly 117 in 2008 to mastermind India 's only victory over Australia in a One-Day International in Sydney . Quotes : " In Australia and New Zealand you can lose wickets quickly and with Kohli at No 3 , he might be vulnerable.Coming in at No 4 , he will have a better perspective of the innings going forward. " - Viv Richards voiced his support on India 's decision to move Virat Kohli to No. 4 . © Cricbuzz
