South Africa vs West Indies 2014-15 Russell steals Miller 's thunder in one-wicket win 2015/Jan/25 11 : 55 : 00 , by Joshua Nath Text Size Russell hammered five fours and five sixes in his 40-ball 64. © Getty David Miller 's maiden one-day international hundred for South Africa went in vain as Andre Russell 's unbeaten 64 off 40 balls helped the West Indies to their first win against South Africa in over eight years. Chasing South Africa 's 262 for eight , the West Indies ' lower middle order rose to the occasion after they were staring down the barrel at 73 for five. Marlon Samuels , Darren Sammy made half-centuries to set the stage for Russell to take the team home in 48.3 overs . The West Indies ' chase was off to a sorry start on a slow St. George 's Park pitch with Dwayne Smith bowled by Morne Morkel on the third ball of the innings for a duck. Chris Gayle , who 's ODI form has come in for some flak , could not get going as the South African bowlers held him on a leash . South Africa brought on offspinner JP Duminy in just the seventh over in a masterstroke with Gayle playing a loose stroke to be caught in the covers by Farhaan Behardien for 10 off 19 balls. The home team 's high standard of fielding saw left-handers Leon Johnson and Jonathan Carter being run out cheaply. Denesh Ramdin could n't make an impact and was out lbw to Behardien 's medium pace . Samuels , looked as if he was batting on a different track , mixing his languid elegance with brute force. When Sammy came to the crease , Samuels found certainty in running between the wickets . Sammy gave Samuels great support with five fours and two sixes to reduce the asking run-rate considerably. The two shared a 93-run stand as the highest sixth-wicket partnership for the West Indies against South Africa. Samuels got his 24th ODI half century and Sammy his eighth fifty. But just when Sammy looked threatening , he miscued a drive off Wayne Parnell and was well taken by de Villiers . Russell meant business from the outset hitting three fours off the first 10 deliveries. However , Samuels , unable to get a lot of the strike at this stage , was literally brought to his knees when Behardien got one to nip back that hit his legstump. Samuels ' 68 came off 93 balls . The Caribbean side stayed on course after some timely hits to the fence in a 29-run partnership in 22 balls between Russell and Holder but the latter hit a friendly full-toss towards mid-wicket where Miller leapt up to take a one-handed catch. With the eighth wicket down , the hosts were back in the game . The pressure increased on the West Indies in the 47th over where Wayne Parnell gave away just two runs. From 26 needed off 24 , it became 24 needed off 18 when Aaron Phangiso came in to bowl his last over. Carlos Brathwaite ( 11 ) tried to take a non-existent single but was found short by a brilliant piece of fielding by de Villiers at mid-wicket . The last man Sheldon Cottrell put Russell on strike immediately. The inexperienced left-arm spinner was bludgeoned for two sixes off successive balls. Russell stormed to his fourth fifty , in 35 balls. A smartly run leg bye on the final ball of the 48th over saw Russell back on strike for the penultimate over off which seven were needed and it took just three balls off Kyle Abbott for him to finish things off and register the first win for West Indies under the leadership of Jason Holder . Earlier , the hosts rode on Miller 's 130 off 133 balls to reach 262 for eight after being 76 for four at one stage. Miller , known mostly as a dasher towards the business end of the innings , was promoted to bat at No 5. De Villiers and Miller dug themselves in but Russell got one to jag back in , taking the inside edge for Ramdin to take a regulation catch. De Villiers ' exit for 19 from 25 balls meant that it was the perfect opportunity for South Africa 's middle order to come good . Duminy showed his prowess against spin when he employed the sweep to good effect against Marlon Samuels , hitting fours off successive deliveries , either side of short fine leg in the 25th over. Miller , meanwhile , had played himself in and started to look assured at the crease. Duminy ( 36 ) fell to Sammy , who took a smart return catch to end a 90-run partnership. Behardien ( 12 ) , finding it tough to hit the boundaries , was bowled by Holder but Miller held one end up and showcased composure . Miller reached his maiden three-figure mark in ODIs , with an on-drive past mid-wicket for two off Holder in the 48th over. He took his helmet off , leapt and thumped his bat in jubilation. Miller 's three sixes and two of his 11 fours came in the final three overs that took the South African total past 250-run mark. Miller also registered the highest ODI score for a South African No 5 , bettering Jonty Rhodes ' 121 against Pakistan in Nairobi in 1996 . Holder was clearly the West Indies ' best bowler , with four for 53 , Cottrell took two for 39 in six overs and Russell and Sammy scalped one wicket apiece . South Africa made four changes to their playing XI with Hashim Amla , Vernon Philander , Dale Steyn and Imran Tahir being rested for the dead rubber. The visiting side , handed an ODI debut to Cottrell. Sammy replaced Jerome Taylor and Johnson was in for injured Narsingh Deonarine . Brief scores : South Africa 262 for eight ( David Miller 130 , JP Duminy 43 ; Jason Holder 4/53 , Sheldon Cottrell 2/39 ) lost to West Indies 266 for nine in 48.3 overs ( Marlon Samuels 68 , Andre Russell 64 * ; Farhaan Behardien 2/21 , JP Duminy 2/29 ) by one wicket . © Cricbuzz
