New Zealand vs Sri Lanka 2014-15 Anderson : Malinga will make the difference for SL Wellington , 2015/Jan/26 22 : 56 : 00 Text Size Corey Anderson believes Sri Lanka will be a different team in the World Cup with the return of Lasith Malinga. © Getty Corey Anderson has enjoyed himself with both bat and ball in the current series against Sri Lanka. He has scored 181 runs at an average of 36 and picked up six wickets at an average of 32.16. His 81 at Nelson helped New Zealand clinch a high-scoring thriller at Nelson and his splendid all-round show in Dunedin , where he scored 40 off 28 balls and picked up 4/52 , helped New Zealand to a series win . With the final match of the series on January 29 in Wellington , New Zealand , who are leading the series 4-1 , will be aiming to win the match and build more momentum ahead of the World Cup. However , speaking to stuff.co.nz , Anderson is cautious ahead of the tournament andsaid the return of Lasith Malinga will make the Sri Lankan team different. Malinga , who has been out of action for close to five months due to ankle surgery , was expected to feature in the seventh ODI in Wellington but Sri Lankan coach Marvan Atapattu said there was a change of plans and Malinga will feature in Sri Lanka 's first warm-up match on February 09 against South Africa at the Hagley Oval in Christchurch . Malinga , who has played 177 ODIs and picked up 271 wickets and his absence has weakened the Sri Lankan bowling considerably. Anderson said Malinga is an integral part of the Sri Lankan team and his return will boost their confidence. " He 's a massive part of their side and gives them a massive advantage , with someone who is quality at the death which they have maybe lacked a little bit. It 's something we 'll have to deal with when it comes along. It 's hard to watch the footage and actually realise how he bowls. I 'm lucky I 've trained with him at Mumbai Indians and faced him in the nets and I feel advantaged over a lot of guys with that , " he said . The Sri Lankan pacer has taken 29 wickets in 21 ODIs against New Zealand. During the Champions Trophy clash between these two teams in Cardiff in June 2013 , Malinga picked up 4/34 in a fiery spell but New Zealand sneaked over the line by one-wicket while chasing 139. Anderson said it was a question of facing a few deliveries from Malinga to get going. " There 's plenty of guys in our side who have faced him and it 's just talking to them and once you 've faced a couple of balls you feel like you 're into it. " When asked about his own form , Anderson was happy with the way he was shaping up for the World Cup. " I feel like I 'm in decent form and seeing the ball. My bowling has n't been as up to scratch as I 'd like it to be. The last game was a lot better. Rolling into it [ World Cup ] I 've played a few games in a row now which is nice. It 's just getting that momentum and carrying it on. " He was also thrilled about the way the team was shaping up and his interactions with Shane Bond , the bowling coach , has also helped. " The guys we 've got with Trent ( Boult ) and Mitch ( McClenaghan ) , Adam ( Milne ) and Tim ( southee ) ; they 're all guys who are going to take wickets. Brendon is an aggressive captain and wickets are always better than dots. " After the end of the Sri Lanka series , New Zealand play Pakistan in two ODIs in Wellington and Napier on January 31 and February 03. They will play two warm-up games before the World Cup. The first game is against Zimbabwe at Nelson while their second game is against South Africa at Christchurch. They will open the tournament against Sri Lanka on February 14 at the Hagley Oval in Christchurch . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies )
