2nd Test , Day 3 : Pakistan Take Massive Lead vs Australia , Eye Series Win 2nd Test , Day 3 : Pakistan Take Massive Lead vs Australia , Eye Series Win Pakistan were 61-2 at the close in their second innings with a total lead of 370 runs after another batting collapse saw Australia almost squander any chance of levelling the series . Last updated on Saturday , 01 November , 2014 20 : 28 IST Total Shares Pakistani bowler Zulfiqar Babar ( C ) celebrates with his teammates after bowling out Australian batsman Glenn Maxwell ( 2R ) during the third day of the second Test . © AFP Abu Dhabi : Pakistan tightened their grip on the second Test and the series after the third day 's play against Australia , stretching their overall lead to 370 at stumps in Abu Dhabi on Saturday. ( Scorecard ) Pakistan were 61-2 at the close in their second innings with Azhar Ali unbeaten on 21 and Younis Khan on 16 after another batting collapse saw Australia almost squander any chance of levelling the series . Australia were dismissed for 261 in their first innings , 309 behind Pakistan 's first-innings total of 570-6 declared , but Misbah-ul Haq did not enforce the follow-on and chose to bat again to set a big target on the fourth day . That put Pakistan in a strong position to win their first series against Australia in 20 years after they won the first Test by 221 runs in Dubai . Mitchell Johnson ( 2-29 ) gave the Pakistanis an early scare with the wickets of Ahmed Shehzad ( 14 ) and Mohammad Hafeez ( three ) but Ali and Younis ensured Pakistan did not surrender their strong position . Australia once again failed to post a big total , with Mitchell Marsh hitting 87 and Michael Clarke scoring 47 . Australia had hoped skipper Clarke , who managed just two and three in the first Test , would bat long enough to counter the Pakistan attack but he fell after a good start . Clarke looked well set during his 62-ball spell at the crease , hitting seven boundaries before he was bowled through the gap with a sharp incoming delivery by paceman Imran Khan who finished with 3-60 . " I kept the ball in the right areas and got some movement , " said Khan. " It was great to have Clarke because his wicket was crucial. " Clarke added 64 for the sixth wicket with Marsh , who batted solidly and hit a six off Zulfiqar Babar and then took three runs to complete his half-century off just 56 balls . But wickets fell at regular intervals , with Yasir Shah dismissing Brad Haddin ( 10 ) and Johnson for a duck to leave Australia struggling at 199-8 . Marsh added 62 for the ninth wicket with Peter Siddle but miscued a defensive shot and was caught off Khan. He hit 13 boundaries and a six during his obstinate 116-ball knock . Hafeez wrapped up the innings when he dismissed Siddle for 28. Rahat Ali ( 2-41 ) , Shah ( 2-47 ) and Babar ( 2-94 ) also chipped in with useful wickets . Resuming at 22-1 , Australia lost David Warner in the sixth over of the day when the left-hander played straight into the hands of point on a short delivery from Rahat . Glenn Maxwell , who made 37 , tried to take the attack to the bowlers with two boundaries and hit a six off Babar but the veteran spinner had the last laugh when he spun one across the bat to hit the off stump . From the other end Rahat bowled nightwatchman Nathan Lyon on 15 before Babar trapped Steven Smith for a duck , leaving Australia at 120-5 at lunch . Story first published on : Saturday , 01 November 2014 13 : 07 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
