South Africa vs West Indies 2014-15 Buoyant West Indies eye second successive upset New Delhi , 2015/Jan/27 01 : 11 : 00 Text Size Andre Russell 's knock at Port Elizabeth breathed a lot of life into West Indies. © Getty West Indies would like to register their second successive ODI win in the fifth and final match against favourites South Africa at Centurion on Wednesday to feel good about their chances at the ICC Cricket World Cup which begins a little over two weeks from now . South Africa were clinical in the first three games and were on course to inflict another loss on West Indies at Port Elizabeth on Sunday when they had reduced them to 73 for 5. Fuelled by David Miller 's maiden ton , the hosts had posted 262 to challenge the Caribbean team but Marlon Samuels and Darren Sammy added 93 before allrounder Andre Russell scored 64 not out off 40 balls to stun the Proteas with nine deliveries and a wicket in hand . South Africa captain AB de Villiers played down the defeat by saying it was not a wake-up call. " We were n't complacent or anything like that. It 's a painful affair , but we move on and we will try to finish on a high in Centurion , " he said. But such a defeat ahead of such an important tournament was not ideal for South Africa . It was n't the first time the hosts were taken aback on the tour. Not long ago , in the second T20I at Johannesburg , they failed to defend a mammoth 231 for 7 after the onslaught of Chris Gayle who made a 41-ball 90 . West Indies , on the contrary , would take a lot of heart from the Port Elizabeth win and another victory could push the disappointments of the first three ODIs to the background. If Russell can keep performing like that , West Indies may not feel the absence of Dwayne Bravo and Kieron Pollard , controversially left out of the World Cup squad . On the back of such a thumping win , the Caribbean team is unlikely to make any changes to its team but South Africa might want to bring back the experienced quartet of Hashim Amla , Imran Tahir , Vernon Philander and Dale Steyn , all of whom were rested for the Port Elizabeth game . Probable XIs : West Indies : 1. Dwayne Smith , 2. Chris Gayle , 3. Leon Johnson , 4. Marlon Samuels , 5. Denesh Ramdin ( wk ) , 6. Jonathan Carter , 7. Darren Sammy , 8. Andre Russell , 9. Jason Holder ( c ) , 10. Carlos Brathwaite , 11. Sheldon Cottrell South Africa : 1. Hashim Amla/Morne van Wyk , 2. Rilee Rossouw , 3. Faf du Plessis , 4. AB de Villiers ( c&wk ) , 5. David Miller , 6. JP Duminy , 7. Farhaan Behardien , 8. Wayne Parnell/Vernon Philander , 9. Imran Tahir/Aaron Phangiso , 10. Dale Steyn/Kyle Abbott , 11. Morne Morkel © Cricbuzz
