Australia tri-series 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Watson : Steven Smith doing what Ponting used to do New Delhi , 2015/Jan/27 04 : 00 : 00 Text Size Smith scored centuries on his Test and ODI captaincy debuts. © Getty Australian allrounder Shane Watson has drawn parallels between the team 's new run-machine Steven Smith and former captain Ricky Ponting. Smith recently became the first player to score a century on his Test and ODI captaincy debuts , leaving Watson awestruck . " It really has been a privilege to be able to see the way he 's been batting and playing , and also holding himself , " Watson said at an event organised by Cure for MND at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Tuesday . " I 've been very lucky in my career to be able to play with some of the great players that have played for Australia. Ricky Ponting was someone who I idolised and was able to see up close how he dominated world cricket for such a long period of time . " To see Steve Smith and what he 's doing in this point in time is very much along the lines of what Ricky Ponting was doing when he was dominating. It 's like they 're playing another game. No matter the quality of the bowler , who 's bowling , they just never seem fazed , they 're able to take on whoever 's bowling , and it 's a privilege to see someone who 's at their absolute peak . " I know Steve , the way he is , the way he works , the way he holds himself , this is going to continue for a long period of time. I 'm sure it will continue through the World Cup and he 's going to be a crucial man in our batting order , " Watson said . Smith took the Test reins last month after the completion of first Test against India which saw regular captain Michael Clarke sustain a hamstring injury and ruled out for the rest of the four-Test series . In the triangular series against England last week , Smith captained Australia for the first time in ODIs after George Bailey copped a one-match suspension for maintaining a slow over-rate in the previous game against India. On both occasions , Smith scored centuries in his team 's wins. In the Test series against the Indians , the 25-year-old went on to pile up 769 runs at an average of 128.16 , a record in a four-game rubber . Watson was effusive in his praise of Smith. " He 's an impressive leader. He 's pretty chilled , pretty relaxed in and around the group. Everyone knows what 's expected from him , " Watson said . " But he 's also let his bat do the talking out there. He reads the game incredibly well for a young man. It 's like he 's been born with this cricket intuition. In situations he just knows where to go to , whether it 's with the bat or as a leader in the field . " Even up until he got given the captaincy he 's always someone Michael called on , but also for me I 've been lucky enough to have him in and around my IPL franchise as well. He 's someone you know you can call on , especially in pressure situations , he 's going to give you really good feedback. He is a really impressive young man , " he said . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) More stories from Australia tri-series 2014-15
