World Cup Heroes ( Full Coverage ) World Cup Heroes : Klusener blows oppositions away in 1999 2015/Jan/27 05 : 42 : 00 , by Gokul Gopal Text Size © Getty Zulu as he is fondly called , Lance Klusener was an allrounder par excellence during the 1999 World Cup. An explosive batsman in the middle order and a useful seam bowler , the Natal-born cricketer saved his best for the seventh edition of the multi-team event. Klusener , who was South Africa 's highest run-scorer and highest wicket-taker in the event , finished with 281 runs at an amazing average of 140.50 and a strike rate of 122.17. He was also the fourth highest wicket-taker overall , with 17 scalps at an average of 20.58 . Klusener 's all-round exploits helped South Africa recover from dicey positions several times in the tournament and he bagged four Man-of-the-Match awards , three in succession , to finish the 1999 World Cup as the most valuable player . A taste of things to come : In South Africa 's opening encounter against India , Klusener might have gone for some runs , but he delivered important strikes , picking up the wickets of Sachin Tendulkar , Rahul Dravid and Mohammad Azharuddin to restrict India to a total of 253/5. He finished with figures of 3/66 and also scored 12 crucial runs off 4 deliveries to help South Africa reach the target . Three MoMs in a row : South Africa were reduced to 122/8 by Sri Lanka and they were reeling at 168/7 against England - both times it was Klusener who came to the team 's rescue. With a valuable unbeaten 52 , he helped South Africa post 199/9 before coming back to pick up 3/21 to skittle Sri Lanka out for 110 and bag his first Man of the Match award. Against England , his 48 not-out helped Proteas to a competitive 225/7 , while he also picked up a wicket and complemented Allan Donald , Shaun Pollock , Kallis and Steve Elworthy to bowl England out for 103. In South Africa 's next game against Kenya , he picked up 5/21 to bowl out the opposition for 152. South Africa secured a comfortable 7-wicket win and Klusener won his third MoM in a row . Disappointment and delight : An economical spell of 1/36 helped South Africa restrict a quality Zimbabwe batting line-up to a total of 233/6. However , Proteas top-order failed miserably and were reduced to 106/7 when Klusener came to the crease. He added 43 runs with Pollock before South Africa lost two more wickets to be 150/9. Despite that , Klusener did not lose heart as he scored a fighting half-century and put on a valiant stand with Donald. However , he was stranded on 52 when Donald fell to Olanga as South Africa were bowled out for 185 and suffered a shocking loss. South Africa faced a similar situation when they were 176/7 against Pakistan in the Super Sixes match , chasing 221. This time , Klusener , with an unbeaten 46 , saw the Proteas past the line to bag his fourth MoM award . Heartbreak in the semi-final : He did not do much with the ball in the semi-final against Australia even as Pollock and Donald combined to bowl out the mighty opposition for a total of 213. It should have been a regulation chase , but South Africa made things difficult for themselves as they wilted under the pressure exerted by Shane Warne ( 4/29 ) to slip to 175/6. Even as Pollock , Boucher and Elworthy fell in quick succession , Klusener was like a thorn in Australia 's flesh as he took South Africa closer , with Donald giving him company . Nine required of six deliveries came down to one off four when Klusener blasted back-to-back boundaries off Damien Fleming. Things had gone Klusener 's way more times than not in this World Cup and it appeared as though he would turn out to be a hero in this game as well. The third delivery was a dot ball , and Australia missed a run-out chance. Klusener still had three more deliveries to hit the winning run and take South Africa to the final. Striking the fourth ball to mid-off , Klusener took off for a single , only to see that Donald was ball-watching instead of responding to his call. Donald was run out and the match ended in a tie with Australia progressing to the final as they had won against South Africa in the Super Six stage . Extreme disappointment was seen on Klusener 's face after South Africa lost their place in the final and earned themselves the chokers ' tag. However , it was still a hugely successful outing for Klusener in the 1999 World Cup and he went on to top the ICC ODI batting chart while he was also voted as Wisden Cricketer of the Year in 2000 . © Cricbuzz
