IPL 2013 : Spot fixing controversy ( Full Coverage ) Time for BCCI to take a stand 2015/Jan/27 08 : 26 : 00 Text Size Srinivasan 's intention to give up stakes in his IPL team to contest in the elections is missing the whole point of the Supreme Court ruling. © Cricbuzz It has been close to a week since the Supreme Court passed its landmark judgement bringing the BCCI under article 226 of the Indian constitution in trying to make it more accountable. It has been six days since the BCCI office-bearers were indicted by the apex judiciary for failing to discharge , what the SC calls , 'public functions'. It has been six days since the BCCI 's credibility was doubted by the highest judiciary of the land , which was forced to appoint a three-member committee comprising of former SC judges to deliberate on the BCCI 's constitution and the quantum of punishment to be handed out to the wrongdoers , Gurunath Meiyappan , Raj Kundra , CSK , RR and others. It has been six days since the Supreme Court provided the BCCI with the final opportunity to act . Yet nothing , absolutely nothing , has been done since. All that the BCCI has been up to , or rather a few members have done , is to go ahead and do a conference call. A couple of others , Jagmohan Dalmiya and Rajiv Shukla have said the judgement will be honoured. Sanjay Patel too in a statement welcomed the judgement. Frankly , even if they do n't say so it does n't matter. It is the SC 's judgement and it is binding on all concerned . All that we know besides these statements is that Mr Srinivasan is still planning to contest. Give up his CSK stake at the earliest and then file an affidavit in court to ask permission to contest. Frankly , this is missing the whole point of the judgement. The judgement is not about N Srinivasan. Nor is it about any particular individual. It is about how Indian cricket ought to be governed going forward , how the BCCI has failed in its duties to the billions of cricket fans and what it needs to do in future. By reducing the judgement to Mr Srinivasan and whether he can retain his fiefdom in the BCCI , all that the board is doing is trivializing the intent of the SC . The SC , if one reads the 138-page judgement , is clear that it wants reform. It wants to cleanse Indian cricket once and for all and is suggesting a judicial review of the BCCI. It wants to restore credibility to the board and hence has appointed the three-member committee consisting of men of impeccable integrity to handhold the BCCI. It is no longer content with leaving the matter to the BCCI and has hence suggested that even the amendments to its constitution can be monitored by the Justice Lodha-led committee. Clearly the BCCI should see the writing on the wall. For its own sake , if not for anything else , it needs to act and get its election done with in six weeks for that 's what the SC wants. It needs to show intent and do something tangible rather than trying to find holes in the SC 's statement and trying to back its own. For this time it ca n't. It simply ca n't get away with inaction for the SC wo n't allow it to do that. Fans are waiting for the board to wake up. To show that they have the interests of Indian cricket in mind and are keen to respect the essence of the SC 's judgement. They need to go beyond the written word , to understand the implicit and act to restore fans ' faith. Only then can Indian cricket benefit. Only then will the judgement have been truly honoured . It is surprising that the BCCI has not yet called a working committee meeting. It is surprising that it is yet again playing the waiting game , trying to gauge which way the ruling party of the country will lean. It is waiting for directions from Mr Jaitley and Amit Shah , two of the most powerful politicians of the country , to give direction. The question is what about the other 25 members of the board ? Do they not feel the pinch ? Do they not feel disappointed and hurt by the tone and tenor of the SC 's pronouncement ? Do they not feel that they are culpable for having incurred the SC 's wrath ? Finally , do they not feel responsible for having let down the multitudes of cricket fans ? Time is indeed running out for the BCCI. It has lost credibility over the past 18 months and now it stands to lose it autonomy as well. As Indian cricket 's governing body , it needs to stand up to its stature and take responsibility. Yes it has let the situation come to this. But it is still not beyond the BCCI and its mandarins. There can still be a redemption song. There 's still time. But only just . © Cricbuzz
