Ranji Trophy 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Harvinder Singh : I had no one to guide me during India stint New Delhi , 2015/Jan/27 21 : 29 : 00 , by Aditya Bhattacharya Text Size Harvinder Singh and Sanjay Bangar during Railways ' loss to Baroda in the 2001 Ranji Trophy final. © BCCL It was business as usual for Railways coach Harvinder Singh on a cold and gloomy day in the national capital. While the players remained inside the dressing room and sipped hot tea , their hands wrapped in woolen gloves , Harvinder was busy completing his set of five rounds of the Karnail Singh Stadium. At 37 , he is as fit as many of the current Railways cricketers and still capable of giving a 25-year-old a run for his money . It was roughly 20 days before the start of the 2014-15 domestic season that Harvinder was assigned the Railways ' coaching job. It 's the same side he dedicated 13 years of his playing life to. Hence , when approached , he gladly accepted the offer. " Whatever I am today is solely due to cricket. So when I retired , I always had this thought in my mind that I have to give something back to cricket and in particular , Railways. Hence , I took up the role , " Harvinder tells Cricbuzz . While 31 may be too young an age to retire , Harvinder has no regrets about his decision. When he played his final match for Railways , it had already been seven years since he last represented India and the rise of Zaheer Khan and Ashish Nehra had put paid to his chances. Also , Harvinder was starting to lose ground in terms of performance - his previous two seasons had accounted for 34 wickets combined - and the emergence of Anureet Singh got him to make up his mind . " I was n't enjoying my bowling to be honest. I had realised that I wo n't get to play at the highest level again. I did n't have many wickets to show either as the last two years had been comparatively dull , " recalls Harvinder. " Anureet had debuted that season and had done relatively well in one particular game , but in the next match , he was benched despite picking up wickets and I was given a go. I felt that it was unfair to have not played him just because an experienced campaigner like me was in the side. So I decided to step back. " Harvinder 's rise to fame was the 1997 Sahara Cup in Toronto , where India and Pakistan met for a six-match ODI series. Back in the day , Pakistan , more often than not , would emerge victorious over India. However , Harvinder 's heroics and his camaraderie with fellow debutant Debasis Mohanty gave India a thumping 4-1 win. The pair combined for 17 wickets in the series as they spearheaded the Indian attack in the absence of the injured Javagal Srinath and Venkatesh Prasad . " [ Sachin ] Tendulkar was our hero in the 90s and as it turned out , he was India 's captain in that series. So getting my cap from him is something I will cherish for the rest of my life , " Harvinder recalled. " The first time I saw him was in the bus when we were on our way to the hotel from the airport. I had to touch him to actually believe that he was sitting within an arm 's reach . " Shahid Afridi and Saeed Anwar were the two biggest batsmen in the Pakistan camp back then. The night before I was told by Sachin that I would play all five matches , I could not sleep thinking that I would be bowling to Afridi and Anwar. But as fate would have it , Afridi turned out to be my first international wicket. " Before Harvinder could emerge as India 's third seam bowling option , a back injury limited his international career to just 17 ODIs and three Tests. His first stint lasted just four months - the third match against Australia during the 1998 Border-Gavaskar Trophy being his penultimate Test. He later featured in India 's squad for the tri-series in West Indies and South Africa in 2001 but got to play only three matches. While Ajit Agarkar was the only medium-pacer from that era to have lasted the distance , Harvinder joined the likes of Abey Kuruvilla and Doda Ganesh in India 's long list of also-rans . " I was given many chances. I believe if someone has to prove his mettle , all he requires is four-five games. I featured in 17 one-day internationals , so if I could n't make it big even after that , it means I was n't suited at that level , " Harvinder says. " The fact that I had no one to guide me is perhaps what cut short my career ; there was no NCA at that time either. Every time something went wrong , I would either replay the videos or go back and bowl non-stop in the nets. In fact , that is what further aggravated the injury. " Harvinder grew up in Shehrata , which was earlier a village before becoming a part of Amritsar. Born in a middle-class family , Harry , as he is fondly known , began his tryst with cricket after an advice from a dear friend , who then took him to the main city for coaching. He admits to have had an obsession for fitness and the desire to participate in the Ranji Trophy tournament . " When I used to play , my friend noticed that I generated a lot of speed , more than all the others. He took me to the main city of Amritsar where I took coaching , " recalls Harvinder. " I used to have a craze for fitness , something that allowed me to realise my dream of playing a Ranji Trophy match in 1995. " Reflecting his views on the current state of fitness of fast bowlers in India , the former medium-pacer said the fact that they do n't bowl longer spells is what makes them more prone to injury. " The current fast bowlers have this trend of bowling shorter spells. Till the time they do n't sweat it out in the nets , the bowling muscles wo n't get the capacity to deliver , " asserts Harvinder . At the time of him joining Railways , the team was considered pushovers. As a matter of fact , no one wanted to join them. But soon that notion was put to rest and Harvinder , along with players such Amit Pagnis , JP Yadav , Raja Ali Hasan , Santosh Sahu and TP Singh took the side to back-to-back Ranji Trophy finals against the same opposition Baroda , in the 2000-2001 and 2001-02 seasons . " The first final against Baroda was heart-breaking. We lost the game after dominating for four days. We had a lead of 250 runs but despite that , we emerged second-best after a collapse on the final day , " Harvinder recalls. " However , the next year , we won the trophy inside three days. I do n't know whether it was written or anything of that sort , but that win was sweeter than any other I 've ever experienced. " © Cricbuzz
