South Africa vs West Indies 2014-15 Darren Sammy eyes upsetting South Africa at the World Cup New Delhi , 2015/Jan/28 02 : 59 : 00 Text Size Sammy thinks WI can settle the score with SA at the World Cup. © AFP West Indies have already lost the five-ODI series against South Africa but allrounder Darren Sammy does n't mind that as long as his team settles the score in the upcoming ICC Cricket World Cup in Australia and New Zealand. The Caribbean team , which is trailing 3-1 ahead of the final ODI at Centurion on Wednesday , is scheduled to challenge South Africa in Pool B on February 27 at the Sydney Cricket Ground . " We are still a bunch of confident guys. Obviously you want to win matches and series but the purpose here was to build for the World Cup. I was telling the guys in the change-room , I do n't mind a series loss if we beat South Africa in the World Cup. That would be the perfect response , " Sammy , who captained West Indies in the 2011 edition , said . " I do n't think I have had a World Cup where South Africa have not been favourites and this time it 's no different. But in a World Cup if you play three good matches in the first round , you are into the knockout stages and with that , cricket is played on the day and anything is possible. " In the fourth game of the series at Port Elizabeth on Sunday , South Africa rested opener Hashim Amla and things went a bit awry for them. Sammy believes South Africa could be given a scare if their top order has a bad day at the office. " The last game showed how a guy like [ Hashim ] Amla is key in the top order. When you are bowling to [ Rilee ] Rossouw and Morne [ van Wyk ] , it 's different. Amla is such a solid and classy player up there , he does n't give you the chance to get wickets upfront which creates a platform for guys like AB [ de Villiers ] and Faf du Plessis , " he said . Chasing 263 to win at Port Elizabeth , West Indies were reduced to 73 for 5 before Sammy , Marlon Samuels and Andre Russell hit fifties to help the team to a one-wicket victory in the 49th over. Sammy is buoyed by the fact that the team did n't need its star batsman Chris Gayle to take it over the line. " Chris [ Gayle ] has been the star for us but it 's always good when performances come from different players. That makes a team strong , " he said . Sammy , who led West Indies to the 2012 World T20 triumph in Sri Lanka , has also lent his support to Jason Holder , the new captain of the ODI side. " It 's a tough job and he is a young man but the way he responded two days ago [ Port Elizabeth ] , getting wickets upfront and ending with four wickets , shows that he has got some character behind him. I think that 's what the selectors and the board saw when they appointed him as captain. He has a good cricket brain. We as the senior players will help him and support him , " he said . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies )
