Australia tri-series 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Big opportunity for India to turn things around New Delhi , 2015/Jan/29 00 : 55 : 00 , by Prateek Srivastava Text Size Yet another opportunity for Shikhar Dhawan to get some runs. © Getty An out-of-form India were lucky to get away with two points after the washout against Australia on Monday , because that has given them a big opportunity to beat England at Perth on Friday and reach the final of the Carlton Mid One-day International Tri-Series . England have five points from three matches , while India have two , and the winners of Friday 's encounter will play Australia in the final on Sunday , again at Perth . However , straightforward as it may sound , the job of beating the English team wo n't be easy for MS Dhoni 's men who are yet to register a win in the tournament. They continue to be uncertain over Rohit Sharma 's fitness. The batsman has n't played since scoring 138 in the team 's opening match against Australia , on account of a hamstring injury. He had a hard training session on Wednesday , but with an eye on the upcoming ICC Cricket World Cup , it 's highly unlikely India will risk playing him . With scores of 2 , 1 and 8 , opener Shikhar Dhawan 's form has hit rock bottom and that has made matters worse. The left-hander can hope to get yet another opportunity to get some form ahead of quadrennial tournament. Some runs off his bat will make Dhoni 's life easier as regards the composition of the eleven . England , on the other hand , have no such grave worries. They beat India with a bonus point and lost twice to Australia , but they are improving with every match. When they played India at Brisbane , medium pacer Steven Finn had bounced out Dhoni and co. with a career-best 5 for 33. Since the WACA pitch has the reputation as being the most quick and bouncy in Australia , England 's fast bowlers will back themselves again . In the batting department too , Eoin Morgan 's team holds the edge. Ian Bell , after scoring 0 in the tournament opener against Australia , made 88 * and a career-best 141 in the following games. Joe Root , James Taylor and Morgan himself have been among the runs. " I think it is important to win this game given the lack of success we 've had before this tour. We 've built a confidence in our preparation , in the game in Brisbane and in performances leading into the start of this series. So as momentum and confidence goes I think it 's quite a big game , " Morgan said ahead of the match . The odds are heavily stacked in England 's favour when one looks at the way India have played so far , but there is no doubt that Dhoni ' s team has a big chance on Friday to put things right to some extent . Probable XIs : India : 1.Shikhar Dhawan , 2. Ajinkya Rahane , 3. Ambati Rayudu , 4. Virat Kohli , 5. Suresh Raina , 6. MS Dhoni ( c&wk ) , 7. Stuart Binny , 8. Ravindra Jadeja , 9. Axar Patel/R Ashwin 10. Ishant Sharma , 11. Mohammed Shami/Bhuvneshwar Kumar England : 1. Moeen Ali , 2. Ian Bell , 3. James Taylor , 4. Joe Root , 5. Eoin Morgan ( c ) , 6. Jos Buttler ( wk ) , 7. Ravi Bopara , 8. Chris Woakes , 9. Stuart Broad , 10. James Anderson , 11. Steven Finn © Cricbuzz
