Pakistan spot-fixing controversy ( Full Coverage ) Amir 's return to cricket imminent as ICC reduces ban Dubai , 2015/Jan/29 02 : 10 : 00 Text Size Mohammad Amir during his trial outside a London court ( File pic ) . © Getty The International Cricket Council has paved the way for Pakistan paceman Mohammad Amir 's return to domestic cricket with immediate effect , relaxing his ban for spot-fixing. Amir 's ban was supposed to end on September 2 this year but an ICC release on Thursday announced that he would be available for selection in Pakistan 's domestic tournaments with immediate effect . Amir was one of three Pakistani players handed bans of at least five years for agreeing to bowl no-balls to order in a Test against England in 2010. The 22-year-old 's ban was due to expire on September 2 but the ICC 's Anti-Corruption and Security Unit ( ACSU ) used discretionary powers to allow him to return to Pakistan domestic games early . " The ACSU chairman , Sir Ronnie Flanagan , with the prior approval of the ICC Board and the PCB ( Pakistan Cricket Board ) , has exercised his discretion to allow Amir to return to domestic cricket played under the auspices of the PCB with immediate effect , " the ICC said in a statement . Amir , along with captain Salman Butt and fellow new-ball partner Mohammad Asif were found guilty of orchestrating deliberate no-balls in the Lord 's Test against England in August 2010. The three players and their agent Mazhar Majeed were jailed by a UK court after the now-defunct tabloid News of the World exposed them in a sting operation . At the time of the incident Amir was regarded as one of the most promising young bowling prospects in world cricket and there was some sympathy for him , given his young age - he was 18 at the time . " The ACSU chairman was satisfied that Amir had cooperated with the ACSU by fully disclosing his part in the matters that led to his disqualification , admitting his guilt , showing remorse and cooperating with the Unit 's ongoing investigations and by recording messages for the ACSU education sessions , " the ICC statement said . In 2013 the PCB asked the ICC to relax certain conditions of Amir 's ban. That prompted the ICC to form a committee which recommended a change in the players ' code of conduct.In November last year the ICC Board approved a provision which allows all banned players to return to domestic cricket a few months before their ban expires . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) More stories from Pakistan spot-fixing controversy
