Australia tri-series 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) The middle order has to fire consistently : Dhoni Perth , 2015/Jan/29 02 : 17 : 00 Text Size Dhoni hopes that India will find its right batting order before the 2015 Cricket World Cup © Getty Ahead of the crunch game against England in Perth on Friday , India 's captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni has been left grappling with various concerns over the batting of the national team. Already without the services of the injured Rohit Sharma , the team management 's decision to bat Virat Kohli at No 4 has puzzled most of the experts . Friday 's match against England at the WACA is a virtual semi-final. The winner of the match will earn the right to face Australia in the final on Sunday at the same venue. Talking to the press ahead of the do-or-die encounter , Dhoni once again stressed the need for his batsmen to spend time in the middle and hoped that the batting unit would be razor sharp going into the 2015 ICC World Cup . " It is important to put runs on the board and defend them , and we have n't been able to do that , " Dhoni said ahead of the Perth ODI. " We have had partnerships going but we have n't been able to capitalize on them. Wickets in hand going into the death overs is something we like to have and it 's a part of our strategy. We 'd like to do that going further , " he added . The opening partnership is a concern for the team management. Shikhar Dhawan has had scores of 2,1 and 8 in the first three matches. Although the southpaw has the backing of his captain , the time is running out for the Delhi batsman to produce results. While refusing to worry about Dhawan 's patchy form , the Indian skipper put the onus of scoring runs on the much fabled middle order. " The openers are not a big concern , " Dhoni said. " More than the top order , in middle order we have lost quick wickets and that hampers the team 's plans. You do n't want wickets to fall in pairs if openers do n't fire. We 'll have to see to that , " he added . The Indian skipper also spoke about flexibility in the batting line-up and promised to make changes as and when the situation demanded. " More than the batting number , the number of overs is important. If the openers play till the 38th over , you 'd like your No 7 batsman to walk in rather than the No 3 , " Dhoni explained . India 's ploy of batting Ambati Rayudu ahead of Kohli has also raised several eyebrows. Dhoni defended the move once again and stressed that inexperience in the ranks of the lower middle order has forced the team management to ask Kohli to bat one step down in the order. " If I am batting at No 6 and I am worried , before going for a big shot , whether the following batsman will be able to capitalize in the last eight overs , it is not a good place to be in , " Dhoni said. " If Virat gets a partnership going , I am there ; Raina is there and we can maneuver the strike and capitalize. " " It is also important to look at the XI you 're playing and decide which batsman is batting where. So a batsman who loves to bat at a certain position will have to sacrifice , " the captain said. " By the start of the World Cup we 'll have a better picture of who bats where , " he concluded . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) More stories from Australia tri-series 2014-15
