Ranji Trophy 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Karnataka ride on Rahul-Shreyas stand Bangalore , 2015/Jan/29 07 : 24 : 00 , by Kaushik Rangarajan Text Size KL Rahul cashed in on his rich vein of form by composing a typically stylish 150 * against Uttar Pradesh. © AFP KL Rahul , coming off a steep learning experience with the Indian team in Australia , cashed in on his rich vein of form by composing a typically stylish 150 * to propel Karnataka to 326 for 4 at stumps on day one in their eighth-round Group A encounter against Uttar Pradesh. Rahul shared an unbeaten 178-run fifth-wicket stand with the free-stroking Shreyas Gopal who struck a solid 88 , his fifth 50-plus score of the season. In the process , Shreyas overtook star batsman Robin Uthappa as Karnataka 's leading run-scorer in the 2014-15 Ranji Trophy tournament . Rahul 's return to domestic cricket following his international sojourn has boosted a misfiring Karnataka whose batting frailties in the season was once again briefly exposed in the first hour of the post-lunch session by a resurgent UP captain Praveen Kumar , whose spell of 2 for 10 in seven overs appeared to vindicate his decision to insert the seven-time champions in on a flat-looking Bangalore surface . Shreyas Gopal , promoted above vice-captain CM Gautam in the batting order , joined Rahul at a precarious 148 for 4 and immediately brought much-needed solidity to the proceedings. The duo milked the UP attack , hitting boundaries at will to put the hosts firmly in control of the game. Barring Praveen Kumar who bowled long spells , UP 's bowling attack remained largely listless. Spinners Kuldeep Yadav and Ali Murtaza - the latter playing in place of regular captain Piyush Chawla - found nothing of interest from the Chinnaswamy Stadium wicket and were unable to keep one end tied up . UP 's sloppy catching did n't help either. Ali Murtaza found Shreyas Gopal 's outside edge with one that turned ever so slightly , only to see Umang Sharma fluff the chance at first slip when the batsman was on 16. Then , in the evening , as the UP fielders dragged their tired bodies around the field , Murtaza himself dropped a KL Rahul skier. Two opportunities hugely significant , not just in this match , but in UP 's relegation battle . Medium-pacers Amit Mishra and Imtiaz Ahmed , who did n't swing the ball much , were guilty of not making the batsmen play enough. The Karnataka batsmen left most deliveries outside the off stump especially against the new ball , a strategy that consumed opening batsman R Samarth when he fatally shouldered arms to an incutter from Praveen . Uthappa , coming off a pair in the previous round , scored a brisk 41 before throwing his wicket away with an ungainly charge against Murtaza at the stroke of lunch. Praveen fought back with a probing spell after lunch in which he dismissed Manish Pandey and Karun Nair in one over before the Rahul-Shreyas stand snuffed the wind out of the UP attack in the afternoon . Brief scores : Karnataka 326/4 ( KL Rahul 150 * , S Gopal 88 * ; Praveen Kumar 3/34 ) v Uttar Pradesh . © Cricbuzz
