Ranji Trophy 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Rahul : I look to attack spinners and not let them settle Bangalore , 2015/Jan/29 08 : 45 : 00 , by Kaushik Rangarajan Text Size Despite Karnataka 's batting failures , KL Rahul ( R ) remains positive of the batsmen clicking together in the knockout phase of the tournament. © BCCL Karnataka opener KL Rahul is a picture of quiet confidence these days. A century at the hallowed Sydney Cricket Ground in just his second Test following a harrowing debut has had a calming influence on the usually unfazed batsman. He followed his Test century with an innings of 89 in his first Ranji match of the season against Baroda last week , before striking a pleasing century in Bangalore against a visiting Uttar Pradesh side . Speaking at the end of the day 's play , Rahul was all praise for the in-form Karnataka allrounder Shreyas Gopal , who struck an equally impressive 88 in an unbeaten 178-run fifth-wicket stand. " The partnership with Shreyas was very crucial , " he said. " It came at a critical juncture of the game. We had lost a couple of quick wickets to be reduced to 148 for 4. It is important to put up a good first innings score. We know we have the bowling firepower to bowl them out ; there was pressure on him ( Shreyas ) at the stage but he played very well. He 's been in great form this season , hopefully he can get a big one tomorrow. " At the start of play , stand-in UP skipper Praveen Kumar surprisingly chose to field first on a Bangalore wicket that is historically known to be conducive for batting. Rahul concurred by saying Karnataka were looking to bat first anyway. " The pitch is very good for batting. Once you get past the first hour when it does a bit , batting gets easier especially with the fast outfield. That 's what Shreyas and I discussed. We do n't get to bat on such good surfaces all the time so it was important to cash in. He batted positively as soon as he got in , and that eased the pressure on me too , " he said . Rahul 's innings was characterised by his treatment of left-arm spinners Kuldeep Yadav and Ali Murtaza , using his feet to put them off their lengths , a ploy that was on display even with the other Karnataka batsmen. " All of us are aggressive batsmen , " Rahul said. " We like to take the bowlers on. Especially when I have seen off the first 20-25 overs with the new ball , my plan is to attack the spinners and not let them settle. " Despite their impressive start to their title defence , Karnataka 's victories have been predominantly set up by their bowlers as the batting up has unusually failed to click in unison. Rahul , however , remained positive of the batsmen clicking together in the knockout phase of the tournament. " Everyone has got starts , they 've just not converted them. We have experienced players in the line-up. They know what the team requires and I believe they will peak during the upcoming knockouts. They have the hunger to do well , " Rahul said . Karnataka will resume the second day of their seventh round game at 326 for 4 and will look to post a good score before unleashing their bowling attack on a struggling UP batting line-up . © Cricbuzz
