Yuvraj to play for MCC in Dubai 2015/Jan/29 12 : 12 : 00 Text Size Yuvraj Singh has been selected to play for MCC in the Emirates T20 tournament in March 2015. © BCCL Yuvraj Singh , the out-of-favour India allrounder , has been selected to play for MCC in the Emirates T20 tournament which will take place in Dubai on March 20. Lancashire will face Yorkshire in the first semi-final in the morning while MCC will line up against Sussex in the afternoon game. The final will be held on the same evening . Alastair Cook and Michael Carberry are also part of the MCC team , which will be led by Nick Compton. Nepal captain Paras Khadka also features in the MCC team. Among the squad members , Yuvraj and Khadka will only play in the T20 matches while the rest of the players will also take part in the the Champions County match against Yorkshire , which acts as a curtain raiser for the English county season . Yuvraj last played for India in the final of the World T20 2014 against Sri Lanka , which the MS Dhoni-led side lost by six wickets. Yuvraj also played for the Rest of the World XI against MCC in the Bicentenary match at Lord 's last summer. He scored 132 off 134 balls in that game but his effort was overshadowed by Aaron Finch , whose explosive 181 * powered MCC to a comfortable victory . " I am very excited about being part of the squad for this tournament , and I 'd like to thank MCC for offering me the chance to play out in Dubai again. There are some great players in the squad so we stand a good chance of winning the competition. I 've got fond memories of playing against MCC in the Lord 's Bicentenary match last year and I 'm delighted to be involved with the club again , " said Yuvraj about his inclusion . MCC Head of Cricket John Stephenson said : " I 'm very happy to have secured Yuvraj for this tournament. His record speaks for itself and the fact that he has agreed to be involved speaks volumes for the competition 's status in cricket. I 'm sure he will provide plenty of entertainment for the crowd and I 'm looking forward to seeing him in MCC colours. " MCC squad : Nick Compton ( Middlesex , captain ) , Alastair Cook ( Essex ) , Michael Carberry ( Hampshire ) , James Hildreth ( Somerset ) , Zafar Ansari ( Surrey ) , Daryl Mitchell ( Worcestershire ) , Sam Billings ( Kent ) , Matt Dunn ( Surrey ) , Chris Rushworth ( Durham ) , Graham Onions ( Durham ) , Adam Riley ( Kent ) , Paras Khadka ( Nepal - for T20 matches only ) , Yuvraj Singh ( India - for T20 matches only ) . © Cricbuzz
