Australia tri-series 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) India blow hot and cold before another defeat New Delhi , 2015/Jan/30 05 : 16 : 00 , by Prateek Srivastava Text Size India 's World Cup preparations went from bad to worse in this match. © Getty India 's inability to deal the coup de grace resurfaced in the three-wicket defeat against England in the last league match of the Carlton Mid One-Day International Tri-Series at Perth on Friday. Twice , India had the upper hand in the match. First , when Shikhar Dhawan and Ajinkya Rahane added 83 for the opening stand on a difficult WACA pitch , it looked like the Indian batting meant business. However , some poor short selection thereafter brought about the loss of ten wickets for the next 117 runs in 28 overs . On the second occasion , Stuart Binny took three quick wickets to reduce England to 66 for 5 in 20 overs and the Indian team looked in firm control but it again flattered to deceive and let England off the hook as James Taylor ( 82 ) and Jos Buttler ( 67 ) hit fifties to take their team to the final where play Australia on Sunday. Ironically , India were on top only in the first 20 overs of both innings . Stuart 's father Roger had taken 4 for 41 at this venue to help India successfully defend a modest 162 against New Zealand way back in 1980. When Stuart removed Joe Root , Eoin Morgan and Ravi Bopara in fairly quick time , the signs of a repeat of his father 's match-winning performance were on the cards but India failed to press their foot down and the duo of Taylor and Buttler took advantage of that , adding 125 runs for the sixth wicket. Both batsmen fell in quick succession to bring a late twist to the tale but Chris Woakes and Stuart Broad kept their cool to wipe out the remaining 10 runs and take the team over the line in 46.5 overs . For a team looking to defend its ICC World Cup title in just over two weeks ' time , India 's preparations definitely went from bad to worse in this match. Put in to bat by Morgan in the must-win encounter , India 's batsmen once again failed to bat out their quota of overs , this time ending on 200 in 48.1 overs . It all started from Dhawan 's poke to wicketkeeper Buttler off the first ball of the 21st over - the fourth time in four innings this series that he was out edging - and ended when Mohammed Shami gave Buttler his fourth catch of the day off the first ball of the 49th over. The inability of the middle and lower order to consolidate on the opening stand was most disconcerting for the defending World Cup champions , with a collapse of six wickets for 58 runs between overs 29 and 45 crippling India 's spine . When England last played India 10 days ago in Brisbane , they had bowled them out for 153. So it was going to be interesting to see how India would fare against the same team on a pace-friendly wicket. As it panned out , there was little fight. Sandwiched between the openers ' scores of 73 and 38 and Shami 's 18-ball 25 from No 11 was a total contribution of 58 runs from eight players . Dhawan 's form was a big matter of concern going into the match but the left-hander , for the first time in the series , showed some serious intent of getting himself back among the runs. In the first few overs , there was no attempt on his part to play flashy cuts and drives. Instead , he focussed on getting singles. The way he ran indicated Dhawan had come in with a plan . Rahane too was intent on doing that but lifted the ball over the infield now and then. The pair soon brought up the team 's first 50-run stand of the series - the previous best being 24 - and at 83 for 0 in 20 overs it appeared the Indians had at last learned their lessons. Then a stunning collapse put things back to square one . Between overs 20 and 30 , India lost Dhawan ( 38 ) , Virat Kohli ( 8 ) and Suresh Raina ( 1 ) for just 28 runs. All three fell to innocuous deliveries. Dhawan tried to cut a widish Woakes delivery ; Kohli danced out to Ali and picked out long-off ; Raina charged the same offspinner and sliced straight to backward point. Next to go was Ambati Rayudu for 12 , nicking Stuart Broad to Buttler . Rahane ( 73 ) held one end up for a while with smart play - he dabbed the ball well and twirled easy singles to the leg side - until he edged Steven Finn to Buttler. From here , India lost their last seven wickets for just 64 runs as Stuart , MS Dhoni , Ravindra Jadeja and Axar Patel all departed in the space of 30 balls. Save for a 10th-wicket stand of 35 between Shami and Mohit Sharma , things could have been even worse. However , in the larger context of the match , India 's total was n't good enough anyway . Brief scores : India 200 all out in 48.1 overs ( Rahane 73 , Dhawan 38 , Shami 25 ; Finn 3 for 36 , Ali 2 for 35 ) lose to England 201 for 7 in 46.5 overs ( Taylor 82 , Buttler 67 ; Stuart 3 for 33 ) by three wickets © Cricbuzz
