Ranji Trophy 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Triple delight for Rahul as Karnataka pummel UP Bengaluru , 2015/Jan/30 08 : 20 : 00 , by Kaushik Rangarajan Text Size KL Rahul 's 337 was laden with 47 fours and four sixes and left the Uttar Pradesh side thoroughly flattened. © BCCL A month ago , batting in his debut Test match at the hallowed Melbourne Cricket Ground , KL Rahul was a bundle of nerves , lasting a grand total of 13 deliveries across two innings. Despite amassing over a thousand runs in the previous domestic season , his dismissals in the Test questioned his long-innings credentials. A debut like the one he had could stay etched in a player 's mind and negatively affect even a player 's domestic form. Not KL Rahul. In Bengaluru on Friday , Rahul was a picture of concentration and relentlesness and capped his productive return to domestic cricket with a record-breaking triple hundred that helped Karnataka notch up a massive 718 in their first innings against Uttar Pradesh . Rahul 's 337 was as aesthetically pleasing as it was brutal. His 671-minute vigil at the crease was laden with 47 fours and four sixes and left the Uttar Pradesh side thoroughly flattened. By the time he was dismissed late on day two , UP were already behind by 660 runs in the first innings , something they could ill-afford to do in the context of their fight to stay in the top groups of Ranji Trophy next season . Enroute his first first-class triple century , Rahul went past Barrington Rowland 's 283 , the highest individual score by a Karnataka batsman in first-class cricket. The 236-run stand between Abrar Kazi and KL Rahul was also the highest seventh-wicket stand for Karnataka against UP , who also recorded their highest first-class score at the Chinnaswamy Stadium . Stand-in skipper Praveen Kumar 's decision to insert the opposition in on a road of a pitch in Bangalore may have been a reflection of his team 's batting woes in the season. However , the bowlers made a positive start to the second day 's play. Praveen , the pick of UP 's bowlers , employed the short ball to good effect in his openeing spell before slipping in a full one to get Shreyas Gopal playing on for 90 , missing what would have been his second century of the season. Karnataka had added only three to their overnight score of 326 for 4 . Strangely , Praveen who preferred to bowl himself in long spells on day one , chose to operate in short spells. Thus far circumspect , Rahul , along with CM Gautam then cashed in on the lackadaisical back-up bowling and stitched a brisk 105-run stand. Gautam fell just before lunch having scored a quickfire 57. Rahul completed his maiden double-hundred at the stroke of lunch , saving the onslaught for the afternoon . Such was the level of Rahul 's batting that in a spell of 10 overs after lunch he had raced from 220 to 272. He continued to attack UP 's left-arm spin duo of Kuldeep Yadav and Ali Murtaza , using his feet to great effect to hit them over their heads. Meanwhile , Kazi played himself in and went past 50 and the partnership soared over 200. Moments after Tea , Rahul eased a single to long-on to complete his triple-hundred. He punched the air in delight before acknowledging a raucous crowd that had assembled anticipating the milestone . Karnataka opted to bat on even after Rahul 's dismissal in a bid to allow Abrar Kazi to get to his ton , and he went on to stay unbeaten on 117. The declaration eventually came but by then , the UP batsmen had to survive only three overs. The delayed declaration , however , allowed Praveen Kumar to complete a deserved five-wicket haul when he trapped his opposite number , Vinay Kumar , plumb in front of the stumps. The UP skipper 's tireless effort earned him returns of 5 for 88. It was to be UP 's only silver lining on a day when their players largely retrieved the ball from beyond the boundary . Brief scores : Karnataka 719/9 decl ( KL Rahul 337 , Abrar Kazi 117 * ; Praveen Kumar 5/88 ) lead Uttar Pradesh 10/0 ( Mukul Dagar 8 * ) by 709 runs . © Cricbuzz
