Ranji Trophy 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) KL Rahul : A brick off the old wall Bengaluru , 2015/Jan/30 10 : 04 : 00 , by Kaushik Rangarajan Text Size During his knock of 337 against UP , the KL 'IPL generation ' Rahul batted for 671 minutes with unwavering focus © BCCL On the second afternoon of the Karnataka-UP clash , KL Rahul , batting on 220 , got a nice stride forward and eased a length delivery on off-stump to the extra-cover boundary. The timing on the shot was so sublime that not a fielder moved. At least not before the junior most fielder in the ring on the off-side realized that they were n't blessed with ball boys for Ranji Trophy matches and chugged along to retrieve the ball. All this while , Rahul put his head down and proceeded to take guard again. The bowler went short on the next delivery , Rahul arched backwards , rolled his wrists and sent the ball rolling to the mid-wicket fence. Sounds like anyone you know ? Kannaur Lokesh Rahul oozes batting talent. Talent , as Indian cricket has come to know in the recent past , is a necessary but not sufficient criterion for top-level success. The mind needs to be in sync with natural ability to endure the rigors of cricket. Rahul , during his innings of 337 may have just crossed the line that separates the good domestic players from those that play on the big stages. The UP bowling attack is far from being called a challenge. Yet , a set batsman had to play through. To quote a cricketing cliche , it is n't the volume of runs , but the manner and the situation in which they are scored , that defines a batsman . A 21-year old Rahul had aggregated 1033 runs in the 2013-14 Ranji season including a man-of-the-match winning performance in the final , playing for an all-conquering Karnataka side. His performances at the top of the order for the treble-winning side earned him comparisons , much to his embarrasment , to his hero and namesake , Rahul Dravid. The hullabaloo surrounding his performances then earned him a national call up. He lasted all of 13 deliveries across two innings in a forgettable debut at the MCG. The naysayers were quick to accuse him of being part of the 'IPL generation'. The team management , however decided to give him another chance , this time at the top of the order. He repaid them with a fighting century at the SCG against an attack comprising Mitchell Starc , Josh Hazlewood and Ryan Harris. Not bad at all ! Yet , there was unspoken belief that he was prone to breaks in concentration just before and after a milestone. He had afterall thrown away his innings at the SCG with a rash shot soon after getting to his hundred. In fact , he 's had multiple dismissals in the 90 's and the early 100 's in his still fledgling career , something he said he 'd been working hard to improve. " I know , the ghosts of the 90s keep haunting me. But , I 'm making a conscious effort on staying in a good space and continue playing for the team 's sake. " During his knock of 337 against UP , the KL 'IPL generation ' Rahul batted for 671 minutes with unwavering focus. Not easy , even on the flattest of surfaces. " It would have been easy for me to play a rash shot and get out for a 160-odd , but it was not what the team needed. It was important to build partnerships. I had to turn up and stay focussed , " he said at the end of the day 's play displaying maturity beyond his age . Despite all the attention , Rahul prefers to stay in the moment rather than get overwhelmed by it. He is proud of Karnataka cricket 's legacy and remains hungry for more success. " It 's a great feeling to go down the history books. To know Karnataka 's history , the kind of batsmen we 've produced and to be the only guy to get to 300 feels very good , " he says . The triple-ton could be the beginning of an exciting journey in cricket. It had all the makings - Skill , mindset and an insatiable desire to just stay at the crease. Batting on 314 against a 70-over old ball , he still chose to leave alone a good ball. Hallmark of a quality batsman. He 's only 22 , he will endure more ups and downs as he builds his career. It is upto the guys handling Indian cricket to ensure talents like Rahul are honed. As Sachin Tendulkar rightly said , there was and is only one Rahul Dravid. But , KL Rahul certainly could be a brick off the old wall . © Cricbuzz
