Australia tri-series 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Australia v England , Final , Preview Perth , 2015/Jan/31 01 : 48 : 00 , by Siddharth Vishwanathan Text Size Australia will be bolstered further with the inclusion of Mitchell Johnson. © Getty Before heading into the tri-series in Australia , England were staring down the barrel when it came to ODIs. They had lost four out of five ODI series in 2014 and the string of poor results had resulted in Alastair Cook getting sacked as ODI skipper. There was uncertainty heading into the tri-series and there were issues regarding the team 's composition and confidence. However , England are turning the corner under Eoin Morgan 's leadership. Although they struggled against Australia , their performance against India has been wonderful , with wins in Brisbane and Perth. England will be aiming to go one step better and win the tournament in order to gain significant confidence ahead of the World Cup . Australia will be getting a chance to tick all the right boxes and finalise their combination. The team would have looked at the Perth wicket during the India - England clash and smiled. After playing on docile pitches for close to three months , they have a chance to bowl on a wicket that has pace and variable bounce . Team news Australia The bowling will be the main focus in the final. Mitchell Johnson , who missed the Sydney Test due to a sore hamstring and was rested for the first four ODIs , is refreshed after a break and it will be interesting to see whether he can repeat the heroics against England in 2013/14. " It 's a big match to come into , but I 'm as prepared as I can be , " Johnson was quoted. Mitchell Starc has been in fabulous form in this series and his record at the venue , with 12 wickets in three games at an average of 8.50 , makes him a difficult proposition. Coach Darren Lehmann has confirmed that Shane Watson will be out due to injury and Mitchell Marsh will feature in the final . Probable XI 1 David Warner , 2 Aaron Finch , 3 Steven Smith , 4 George Bailey ( c ) , 5 Mitchell Marsh , 6 Glenn Maxwell , 7 Brad Haddin ( wk ) , 8 James Faulkner , 9 Mitchell Johnson , 10 Mitchell Starc , 11 Josh Hazlewood England James Taylor has enhanced his reputation immensely in this tournament. With 143 runs , with two fifties and at an average of 47.66 , Taylor has provided stability to the middle order. His knock of 82 against India in Perth came when England were 66/5 and his 125-run stand with Jos Buttler helped England ease into the final. Ian Bell , Morgan and Buttler have all contributed with the bat in this series but will aim consistency. Steven Finn , whose career was at the crossroads after being sent back from Australia in 2013/14 due to poor form , has redeemed himself with 10 wickets at an average of 18.2. His hostile pace and bounce will be vital on a lively surface . Probable XI 1 Ian Bell , 2 Moeen Ali , 3 James Taylor , 4 Joe Root , 5 Eoin Morgan ( c ) , 6 Ravi Bopara , 7 Jos Buttler ( wk ) , 8 Chris Woakes , 9 Stuart Broad , 10 James Anderson , 11 Steven Finn Stats In the last 12 ODIs between Australia and England , Australia have won eight and lost two , with two matches ending in no-results . In the last seven ODIs played by England in Perth , they have won five matches and lost two . © Cricbuzz
