Ranji Trophy 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) UP crumble to Karnataka 's bowling Bengaluru , 2015/Jan/31 07 : 20 : 00 , by Kaushik Rangarajan Text Size Shreyas Gopal backed up his first-innings 90 with a four-wicket haul to dismiss Uttar Pradesh cheaply. © BCCL With just one century in the 2014-15 season , Uttar Pradesh 's batting woes have been well documented. Not a single batsman has got going this season but that in no way exonerates them for the shambolic way they crashed to 220 all out in their first innings in response to Karnataka 's 719 for 9 declared on a Bangalore pitch that still played true . The UP batsmen had only themselves to blame. The pitch had started to crumble slightly and had became a tad two-paced but there was a moment during the post-lunch session that suggested that it still was n't as bad as UP 's top order made it seem. Karnataka skipper Vinay Kumar brought himself on soon after lunch. Refreshed and replenished after a 40-minute break , the medium-pacer steamed in and landed the ball in the channel on a good length only to see Himanshu Asnora dead-bat it. A stare from Vinay was followed by a short-ball delivered from a short run-up that was safely negotiated . Asnora and Parvinder Singh , during their 83-run stand in the second session showed that the pitch actually hid no demons. Of course , that was before Shreyas Gopal came back into the attack in the afternoon session following which the batsmen had a collective brain-fade . At the start of the day 's play , the instruction from the UP think-tank would have been fairly simple : 'bat , bat and bat some more , we 'll let you know when 180 overs are bowled ' or something to that effect. To get to 719 against any attack , let alone the defending champions ' was always going to be out of their reach. However , barring 19-year-old Himanshu Asnora , the top-order did themselves no favour by repeatedly throwing away their wickets. To their credit , Karnataka 's medium pacers relied more on their guile than expecting assistance from the surface . When the UP seamers operated on days one and two , a lot of the deliveries were conveniently left alone. To reverse this , Vinay , Abhimanyu Mithun and Sreenath Aravind switched to bowling around the wicket in a bid to use the angle and make the batsman play every ball. The strategy paid dividends almost instantaneously. UP 's only centurion in an otherwise dismal campaign , Tanmay Srivastava , was lured into playing away from the body to a full delivery that came after a succession of wicket-to-wicket deliveries. Aravind then dismissed Mukul Dagar and Umang Sharma in one over , the former getting out to an ungainly pull shot . Asnora , playing in just his third first-class game displayed maturity far beyond his age and set about rebuilding UP 's innings along with Parvinder Singh. The duo appeared in no particular discomfort before Parvinder threw his wicket away , stepping out to hit Shreyas Gopal only to spoon a simple catch to mid-wicket for 34. That dismissal got Gopal going. Ekalavya Dwivedi offered no stroke and was adjudged leg-before wicket. Asnora , having batted patiently for 70 , chipped one to short midwicket before captain Praveen Kumar was bowled off a googly attempting an ugly swipe. UP were reduced to 161 for 7 . The UP tail batted doggedly as the last three wickets added 59. More importantly , they batted close to 20 overs and showed that with a little application , the pitch was very much playable. In a boost to their chances of holding on for a draw , Karnataka , despite holding a 499-run lead , decided against enforcing the follow-on , a strategy Shreyas Gopal attributed to giving their bowlers much needed rest ahead of the quarter-finals . Brief scores : Karnataka 719/9 decl and 8/0 lead Uttar Pradesh 220 ( Himanshu Asnora 70 ; Shreyas Gopal 4/51 , Sreenath Aravind 3/48 ) by 507 runs . © Cricbuzz
