Ranji Trophy 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Shreyas highlights spinners ' plight in domestic cricket Bengaluru , 2015/Jan/31 10 : 42 : 00 , by Kaushik Rangarajan Text Size Shreyas Gopal 's bowling has been overshadowed by his own batting as he has been Karnataka 's leading run-getter this season. © PTI Amidst the eclectic young talent coming through from the Karnataka set-up is the quiet , unassuming legspinner - Shreyas Gopal. Shreyas 's name first entered local cricketing circles when he claimed a unique double hat-trick while playing for Frank Anthony Public School against Presidency School in junior level cricket. His consistent performance then earned him a place in the NCA 's south zone academy. Upon graduating , he was seamlessly absorbed into the Karnataka side during their treble-winning season of 2013-14 . Once inducted , it did n't take long for the leggie to prove his worth. In just five games , Gopal picked up 22 wickets at 18.22 , the best average among the Karnataka bowlers. His stocks rose further with a hat-trick in the Irani Trophy final which sealed an unprecedented domestic treble for his team. His consistent performances earned him an IPL contract with the Mumbai Indians , where legendary Karnataka and India spinner Anil Kumble served as chief mentor . Shreyas 's reputation continues to rise in the current season but this time he has let his bat do the talking. After seven group stage games , Shreyas tops the run-charts for Karnataka with 536 runs at 89.33 , eclipsing the likes of Robin Uthappa , Manish Pandey and Karun Nair. His consistent rescue acts were rewarded with a promotion in the batting order , ahead of wicketkeeper CM Gautam in the game against Uttar Pradesh. He added a 90 to the two centuries he 'd already scored in the season . While he continues to display an assured batting technique , his 15 wickets in seven matches have come at a slightly increased average of 27. This , however , is largely due to the nature of the wickets the teams play on. Speaking at the end of day three against UP , a day in which he picked up his best figures of the season - 4 for 51 - Shreyas resonated a thought that has become quite the norm this season. " It feels good to get back among the wickets. It had n't come for a few matches , " he said . " We have n't had wickets helping the spinners. There have been a lot of green , seaming tracks that we have played on. Even here , there is nothing much happening on day three. They ( UP batsman ) played some bad shots. Usually on the third/fourth day when the pitch crumbles and keeps low , and when there is a little bit of rough that is when we come into play more , " he went on to say . There is a growing sense that the curators in most grounds have been instructed to prepare livelier pitches for the Ranji games in the wake of India 's overseas debacles in fast and swinging conditions. However , this has , as Harbhajan Singh pointed out in a recent interview , reduced the attacking instincts of the up and coming spinners. That the Indian spinners have n't been nearly as effective as their opposition at the Test level should also concern the administrators . An added worry is that of Indian batsmen graduating out of such environments being unable to play quality spin , a skill which has historically been their forte. One need n't look past Moeen Ali 's exploits against India or the records of R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja in recent Tests to find vindication . © Cricbuzz
