Australia tri-series 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Faulkner injury a worry for Australia ahead of WC New Delhi , 2015/Feb/01 07 : 21 : 00 Text Size Faulkner has two weeks to get back to full fitness. © Getty Australia allrounder James Faulkner has become a doubt for the upcoming ICC Cricket World Cup after suffering a rib injury in his team 's Carlton Mid One-Day International Tri-series triumph at the WACA in Perth on Sunday . Faulkner , whose 24-ball 50 not out helped Australia reach 278 for 8 in the final against England , picked up the injury bowling his third over - having already accounted for Joe Root off the first ball of his spell. Glenn Maxwell , who got career-best performances in both batting and bowling with 95 and 4 for 46 as Australia took the contest by 112 run , showed his concerns for his team-mate in the post match press conference . " He 's pretty down at the moment with such an amazing thing coming up for us - a home World Cup , " Maxwell said . " The thought of us being ruled out so late with an injury even if it 's nothing just the thought of that would hurt a lot of people . " I know a few of us out there were hurting for him when he went off. He 's super cricketer and he 's a vital cog in this Australian outfit. We can hope that is nothing and he 's being soft and he gets back and trains hard with us next week . " We 're all feeling for him. We hope he recovers pretty quickly and can get back out there with us. You saw it today how good he is. He 's the best finisher in the game comfortably. The way he assesses a situation , gives himself that little bit of time and dominates bowling at the death . " And even with the ball , being that surprise packet , getting that wicket first ball , surprising Joe Root who did n't really look like making too many mistakes there. He 's a vital part of our one day side and hopefully he 's playing this whole World Cup. " In two weeks ' time Australia will begin their World Cup campaign against England in Pool A at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. Michael Clarke , the designated captain of the side , is already fighting a race against time to prove his fitness , and the development with the 24-year-old Faulkner has given Australia further reasons to be bothered about . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) More stories from Australia tri-series 2014-15
