Australia tri-series 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Morgan blames batting for Australia mauling New Delhi , 2015/Feb/01 08 : 52 : 00 Text Size Morgan was himself out for a first-ball duck. © Getty Following his team 's 112-run defeat against Australia in the Carlton Mid Tri-Series final on Sunday , England captain Eoin Morgan insisted it was n't the fear of Mitchell Johnson that led to the mauling at Perth 's WACA . Returning from a hamstring injury , the Aussie pacer took three quick wickets of James Taylor , Moeen Ali and Morgan to reduce England to 46 for 4 in their chase of 279. However , Morgan played down the Johnson factor and said poor batting was responsible for the humiliating defeat . " I think it probably could have been anybody bowling , " Morgan told reporters after the match. " I dont think he [ Johnson ] swung it. We put ourselves under pressure and I do n't know why we performed like that . " We chatted about the opposition very briefly as we 've played against them so much in the past , but I do n't think we were threatened that much . " We were poor. We did n't help ourselves with some of the decisions we made and the shots we played. Our batting let us down. " Australia too had a tough time batting , and at one time were 60 for 4 before partnerships of 141 ( between Glenn Maxwell and Mitchell Marsh ) and 45 ( between James Faulkner and Johnson ) for the fifth and eighth wickets respectively helped them reach a challenging 278 for 8. Morgan admitted his team failed to get any partnership going. " A top score of 33 [ from Ravi Bopara ] just is n't good enough and we have to take that on the chin and look at the reasons why it happened , " Morgan said . " We did n't put any partnerships together and put any pressure on the Australia bowlers so we did n't really get into the position where we could have a go at their total. " England start their ICC World Cup campaign against Australia on February 14 at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. Morgan said his team 's three defeats against Australia in the tri-series will have no bearing on the World Cup encounter . " I think the pressure builds on Australia from that perspective , " Morgan said. " They 're a home side in their first game of the World Cup , playing against a dangerous side. We 're going out all guns blazing , so there 's no pressure from our point of view . " We have made huge strides from where we were and huge credit goes to some guys ' individual performances. We now play Pakistan and the West Indies and that will be a great opportunity to get some match time under our belt and also adapt to conditions. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) More stories from Australia tri-series 2014-15
