ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 ( Full Coverage ) Ajinkya Rahane : Man for all seasons New Delhi , 2015/Feb/01 22 : 53 : 00 , by Gaurav Gupta Text Size Rahane in action during the Carlton Mid tri-series game against England in Perth. © Getty Some time in the 90s , a team of enthusiastic cricketers had travelled to Azad Maidan from a faraway suburb called Dombivilli to play a cricket match . The opener of this team was an eight-year-old boy. The first ball of the match was a quick bouncer which crashed into the helmet of this tiny batsman , who subsequently fell down and started crying . Just as his seniors thought it was a mistake to make him face a bowler who was thrice his age and size , the boy wiped his tears , put his helmet back on , and said : 'I 'm ready. " The bowler , a waiter in a nearby restaurant , told the boy he would be better off facing the old ball. He responded by smashing his next five balls for fours. It took five balls for the boy to change the bowler 's opinion about him for good . For most part of his cricketing life , Ajinkya Rahane has only done that. For a man who seemed to be a bundle of nerves on his Test debut , he is almost the backbone of the team at present. Whether he opens or bats at No. 3 , his form will be the key for India . There is an obvious reason why he has been India 's best batsman on any kind of wicket in the past year or so. " He possesses a sound technique , backed by excellent footwork , " says his mentor , Pravin Amre. However , technique alone does n't help this man counter the fastest of bowlers with ease. There is solid steel inside . Perhaps it was inculcated very early in his life , when he learnt karate ( his parents felt that cricket and karate would help the boy mix more freely with his friends. ) to the extent that he became a black belt in it . Life , at no stage , has been a bed of roses for Rahane. Hailing from a strictly middle-class family , which owned a small apartment in a congested suburb , cricket was n't easy to pursue . " Given our financial constraints , it was an expensive sport to afford for us. We owe much to Arvind Kadam , who gave him a chance to play for his club and provided him all the help he needed at that stage , " says Ajinkya 's father Madhukar Rahane , a former BEST employee . Later , Rahane 's mental toughness was challenged to the limit again as he was kept out in the cold despite scoring heaps of runs in domestic cricket. A star batting line-up meant that he had to be a 'water boy ' for 14 consecutive Tests. Almost all those who played with him in the meanwhile , went on to play for India. He was frustrated , But Rahane just did n't give up. Patience is his biggest virtue . For Rahane , cricket is everything. " If I have to schedule an ad shoot for him , it can not be at the cost of his practice , even if it is the off-season. I can 'sell ' him more , but I have to respect his thought process. He is a kind of guy who wo n't run after money. He sees the bigger picture. There are three things he wants to be known for - being ethical , consistent and competitive. He is very choosy. He may reject all five brands that I offer him. He does n't want to endorse liquor brands , but is always keen for a social cause , " says his manager Atul Srivastava . While he is an intense character on the field , friends say that off it , he is a totally different guy. He cracks jokes , reads books and listens to music. He does like to party , but with only with really close friends. He was training two days before marriage , so his wife knows where his first love is . " He is a very good dancer , mimic and a superb actor. He is very good in front of the camera. Someday , I will discuss with him about how to show these qualities of his to the world ! " says Srivastava . © TNN
