Virender Sehwag : I will not retire as long as I have desire to play New Delhi , 2015/Feb/02 21 : 48 : 00 Text Size Virender Sehwag was ignored by the selectors for the upcoming World Cup because of poor form © Getty Neglected India batsman , Virender Sehwag quelled rumours about his impending retirement from the game by stating that he had no imminent plans of quitting the game. Sehwag , a veteran of three World Cup campaigns , including the victorious one in 2011 , was left out of the 2015 edition due to a prolonged slump in batting form . " I am still playing. I will not consider quitting till I have the desire to play , " Sehwag said during a media interaction in New Delhi on Monday. " I am not thinking about retiring. At least not for the next two years. " The explosive opener who scored 380 runs during the 2011 World Cup including a manic 175 in the opening encounter against Bangladesh , has , however , made his peace with the fact that he will not feature in the title defence in Australia. Nevertheless , he felt India had a strong chance of reaching at least the semifinal. " From there it depends on how the team plays in that particular match. The youngsters in the team are good and we have a good batting line-up , " Sehwag opined . The 36-year old also dismissed suggestions that India 's disastrous tour of Australia would have a negative bearing on the their chances ahead of the big-event. " No effect on current form would hold in the World Cup , especially for the batsmen. The team would try to produce their best irrespective of the form . " In the 2003 World Cup in South Africa , not many gave us a chance of playing well , but we managed to reach the final. We are still defending champions. In cricket , ups and downs in form happen. The players do n't worry about it too much. They focus on their performance because they need to play well even after the World Cup , to remain in the team. " Sehwag , however , said that the nature of pitches in Australia and the new field restrictions allowing only four fielders outside the 30-yard circle would influence the tournament 's outcome. " Effects of different nature of wickets would be felt by teams. Earlier it was mandatory to keep only four fielders within the circle. But now , you need to have five. The new five-man rule would be a disadvantage for India. Due to this stipulation , the all-rounders ' role would be crucial , " he summed up . © Cricbuzz
