Ranji Trophy 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Pragyan Ojha cleared to play by BCCI 2015/Feb/05 08 : 34 : 00 Text Size Pragyan Ojha 's bowling action has been cleared by the BCCI. © Getty Left-arm spinner Pragyan Ojha , who had been banned for a suspect bowling action , has been cleared by BCCI and is available to play in First-Class matches with immediate effect. Ojha had earlier been asked to report to the ICC-accredited testing centre in Chennai after he was reported in December , 2014. He had subsequently been withdrawn from Hyderabad 's Ranji Trophy squad . Ojha underwent official assessment in the Chennai testing centre on January 30 , 2015 under the surveillance of high performance coaches from BCCI and biomechanic experts. Ojha is all set to feature in Hyderabad 's Ranji fixture against Himachal on Friday . The spinner , who has played 24 Tests and 18 ODIs for India , last made his international appearance way back in November 2013 as his action was under scrutiny. Hyderabad Cricket Association requested the BCCI to have Ojha 's action tested after the bowler had taken some corrective measures with the help of coaches . The latest test results have found that the left-arm spinner 's action now satisfies the requirement , which means that he can resume bowling immediately . " National level cricket player , Pragyan Ojha has been permitted by the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) to bowl in domestic matches with immediateeffect. His elbow extension was found within the permissible limits in all deliveries bowled during the Test matches , " stated a BCCI release . A delighted Ojha thanked the BCCI for coming up with the decision to allow him to resume bowling. " I look forward to playing domestic matches. I am grateful to the BCCI for arriving at the decision in such a short time. I hope that I get the opportunity and honour to play for India soon and wish the Indian cricket team all the best for the World Cup. " — Pragyan Ojha ( @ pragyanojha ) February 5 , 2015 © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) More stories from Ranji Trophy 2014-15
