Relieved Pragyan Ojha eager to prove his worth New delhi , 2015/Feb/05 10 : 50 : 00 , by Vineet Ramakrishnan Text Size Ojha is all set to feature in Hyderabad 's final group game against Himachal Pradesh. © BCCL Left-arm spinner Pragyan Ojha has said he is very relieved that he will be free to ply his trade after being cleared to bowl by the Board of Control for Cricket in India. " I am just relived and very grateful to the BCCI for its support. I am glad that I have been able to overcome this , " he told Cricbuzz in an interview from Hyderabad . Ojha has spent an excruciating month after being withdrawn from the Hyderabad Ranji Trophy squad on December 27 , a question mark hanging over career. He underwent rehabilitation after being suspended by BCCI in the thick of the domestic season , even though he played the Duleep Trophy for South Zone at Lahli and Delhi and three Ranji Trophy group C league games . Talking about the turbulent time , Ojha said he was always confident about his action. " You know I had the confidence that I was not wrong , " he said. " Things creep into your mind and knowingly or unknowingly it affects your performance. But after this episode I realise that a sportspersons life is such. I feel stronger now and my mental strength has enhanced. " After the ban , Ojha requested BCCI to be allowed to train under coaches in Hyderabad to rectify his action but he could not do that because of the Ranji season. It was under the guidance of NCA bowling coaches M Venkataramana and DS Vasu that he worked on the flaws in his action . " My run-up was such that the body weight was not getting transferred properly , " Ojha said. " The delivery is always the result of the run-up. So with Venkataramana and Vasu , I worked on the angles I was bowling at ; the angle of my arm , the body and we got the results. We conducted tests at the ICC-recognised Sri Ramachandra Medical College ( SRMC ) in Chennai and my arm position was fine. " SRMC had concluded in December that Ojha 's elbow flexion was more than the permissible 15 degrees limit . Ojha hit the headlines for the wrong reasons when a member of the BCCI committee looking into bowlers with suspect action , AV Jayaprakash , said that the Hyderabad spinner was undergoing rehabilitation. Ojha had denied that claim and featured in the Duleep Trophy semifinal against East Zone and final.against Central Zone before the Vijay Hazare trophy tournament. Ojha wore half-sleeved shirt during the Duleep Trophy to make a point that he had nothing to hide . Ojha played Ranji games for Hyderabad against Andhra , Goa and Kerala but missed matches against Services , Tripura , Assam and Jharkhand. He is all set to feature in Hyderabads final group game against Himachal Pradesh . " I am more determined now to achieve success and tomorrow [ Friday ] there is a game. I will take one game at a time , " he said. " This will be the start and there is IPL after that. I will have to build momentum there and hopefully will get to play in the home series India will be playing later this year. " Ojha last played for India against the West Indies in what was Sachin Tendulkars farewell Test in Mumbai in November 2013. He had match haul of 10 for 89 but is unfazed by his absence from the national side after that match-winning effort . " Those things [ selection ] are not in my hand and my focus has been to play cricket. After the ban I badly missed playing and now I am back and I want to work hard , " he said. " I worked hard and that was the reason why I was able to rectify my bowling flaw , and that is the biggest boost I can get and will continue to do the same. " © Cricbuzz
