NOR vs GLOUCS - Live CPL 2015 Draft Caribbean Premier League 2015 : Draft as it happened : Afridi , Mahela and Kallis among the 66 players picked up in the CPL 2015 draft Last updated on Tuesday , 10 February , 2015 , 09 : 25 IST Text Size Chris Gayle 's new team-mates include Mahela Jayawardene and Daniel Vettori. © Getty Squads after the draft : Afridi , Mahela , Kallis and Taylor some of the big names A total of 66 players were picked up from a pool of 200 during the Caribbean Premier League draft for the 2015 edition of the tournament. Among the ones chosen by six different franchises , Shahid Afridi , Mahela Jayawardene , Lasith Malinga , Jacques Kallis and Ross Taylor were some of the big overseas names. West Indies batting mainstay Marlon Samuels was also drafted in , while veteran batsman Shivnarine Chanderpaul was snapped up as well. The Guyana team picked up as many as three Sri Lankan players in the draft while three South African players made it to the Trinidad side . Squads after the draft Barbados Tridents : Retained players - Kieron Pollard , Shoaib Malik , Dwayne Smith , Ravi Rampaul Picked up in the draft - Jason Holder , Rayad Emrit , Dilshan Munaweera , Jonathan Carter , Justin Ontong , Ashley Nurse , Robin Peterson , Akeal Hosein , Navin Stewart , Shai Hope , Kyle Corbin Guyana Amazon Warriors : Retained players - Sunil Narine , Lendl Simmons , Denesh Ramdin , Christopher Barnwell Picked up in the draft - Lasith Malinga , Tillakaratne Dilshan , Thisara Perera , Brad Hodge , Veerasammy Permaul , Ronsford Beaton , Shivnarine Chanderpaul , Devendra Bishoo , Trevor Griffith , Assad Fudadin , Paul Wintz Jamaica Tallawahs : Retained players - Chris Gayle , Andre Russell , Jerome Taylor , Chadwick Walton Picked up in the draft - Mahela Jayawardene , Chris Lynn , Daniel Vettori , Nikita Miller , Krishmar Santokie , Rusty Theron , Narsingh Deonarine , David Bernard jr. , Nkrumah Bonner , Jermaine Blackwood , Horace Miller St Kitts & Nevis Team : Retained players - Carlos Brathwaite , Devon Thomas , Orlando Peters , Justin Athanaze Picked up in the draft - Shahid Afridi , Marlon Samuels , Sohail Tanvir , Sheldon Cottrell , Martin Guptill , Ewin Lewis , Raymond Reifer , Tabraiz Shamsi , Tonito Willett , Nicolas Pooran , Jacques Taylor St Lucia Zouks : Retained players - Darren Sammy , Kevin Pietersen , Johnson Charles , Andre Fletcher Picked up in the draft - Ross Taylor , Shakib Al Hasan , Shannon Gabriel , Henry Davids , Fidel Edwards , Kemar Roach , Shane Shillingford , Kyle Mayers , Keddy Lesporis , Liam Sebastien , Delorn Johnson Trinidad and Tobago Red Steel : Retained players - Dwayne Bravo , Darren Bravo , Samuel Badree , Kevon Cooper Picked up in the draft - Jacques Kallis , Johan Botha , Kamran Akmal , Cameron Delport , Sulieman Benn , Jason Mohammad , Marlon Richards , Miguel Cummins , Javon Searles , William Perkins , Derone Davis Round 15 : Bracket USD 5,000 St Kitts , having retained Justin Athanaze , could not pick any player in the final round of the draft. Horace Miller joined Jamaica , Guyana picked up Paul Wintz , Trinidad 's last addition of the draft was Derone Davis while Delorn Johnson and Kyle Corbin became members of the St Lucia and Barbados sides respectively . Round 14 : Bracket USD 5,000 In the penultimate round , Jacques Taylor joined St Kitts , Liam Sebastien went to St Lucia , Shai Hope was picked up by Barbados while William Perkins was snapped up by Trinidad. Assad Fudadin and Jermaine Blackwood went to Guyana and Jamaica . Round 13 : Bracket USD 5,000 Promising young batsman Nicolas Pooran joined St Kitts in round 13 while Guyana and Trinidad got hold of Trevor Griffith and Javon Searles respectively. Keddy Lesporis went to St Lucia , Jamaica picked up Nkrumah Bonner while Navin Stewart became a Barbados Tridents member . Round 12 : Bracket USD 5,000 Devendra Bishoo was picked up by Guyana in round 12 , Akeal Hosein joined Barbados while Tonito Willett went to St Kitts. Kyle Mayers , David Bernard jr. and Miguel Cummins were signed up by St Lucia , Jamaica and Trinidad respectively . Round 11 : Bracket USD 10,000 St Kitts could not pick any player in round 11 as they had retained Orlando Peters. Marlon Richards , Narsingh Deonarine and Shane Shillingford joined Trinidad , Jamaica and St Lucia respectively. South Africa allrounder Robin Peterson was snapped up by Barbados while veteran West Indies batsman Shivnarine Chanderpaul became a member of the Guyana team . Round 10 : Bracket USD 10,000 In the 10th round , St Lucia chose Kemar Roach , while Tabraiz Shamsi and Ashley Nurse went to St Kitts and Barbados respectively. Guyana got hold of Ronsford Beaton while Jason Mohammad was picked up by T&T. South Africa ' 's Rusty Theron joined the Jamaica side . Round 9 : Bracket USD 15,000 Krishmar Santokie joined Jamaica during round nine of the CPL draft while Sulieman Benn and Veerasammy Permaul were picked up by Trinidad and Guyana respectively. South Africa 's Justin Ontong became a member of the Barbados team. Fidel Edwards joined St Lucia while St Kitts got hold of Raymond Reifer . Round 8 : Bracket USD 20,000 Devon Thomas ( St Kitts & Nevis ) and Chadwick Walton ( Jamaica ) were the retained players in round eight. Jonathan Carter joined Barbados while former Australia player Brad Hodge went to Guyana. South African cricketers Cameron Delport and Henry Davids were picked up by Trinidad and St Lucia respectively . Round 7 : Bracket USD 30,000 In round seven , three West Indian players were picked up , while Pakistan 's Kamran Akmal and Sri Lanka 's Dilshan Munaweera were also drafted in. St Kitts & Nevis got hold of Ewin Lewis , while Shannon Gabriel and Nikita Miller became members of the St Lucia and Jamaica sides respectively. Guyana , having retained Christopher Barnwell could not pick any. Akmal joined Trinidad while Barbados got hold of Munaweera . Round 6 : Bracket USD 40,000 Kevon Cooper ( T&T ) , Andre Fletcher ( St Lucia ) Jerome Taylor ( Jamaica ) and Carlos Brathwaite ( St Kitts ) were the retained players who featured in round six. Meanwhile , allrounder Thisara Perera became the third Sri Lankan player in the Guyana team while Rayad Emrit joined Barbados . Round 5 : Bracket USD 50,000 Denesh Ramdin ( Guyana ) was the only player retained in this bracket. Trinidad bagged the services of Johan Botha , Jamaica got hold of Daniel Vettori , Bangladesh allrounder Shakib Al Hasan went to St Lucia while New Zealand batsman Martin Guptill was picked up by St Kitts and Nevis. Meanwhile , Current West Indies ODI skipper Jason Holder became another big name in the Barbados Tridents team . Round 4 : Bracket USD 70,000 Having retained Ravi Rampaul , Lendl Simmons , Johnson Charles and Samuel Badree respectively , Barbados , Guyana , St Lucia and T&T could not pick up a player in round four. Promising pace bowler Sheldon Cottrell joined the St Kitts and Nevis side while Australia 's Chris Lynn went to Jamaica . Round 3 : Bracket USD 80,000 Barbados , Jamaica , St Lucia and T&T could not pick any in round three as they had retained Dwayne Smith , Andre Russell , Kevin Pietersen and Darren Bravo respectively. Meanwhile , Guyana got hold of Tillakaratne Dilshan while Sohail Tanvir became a member of the St Kitts and Nevis team . Round 2 : Bracket USD 100,000 Barbados could not pick up any player during round two as they had retained Shoaib Malik. Guyana Amazon Warriors , who were second in the turn to pick a player in this round , got hold of Lasith Malinga , while Jacques Kallis , Mahela Jayawardene and Ross Taylor went to Trinidad , Jamaica and St Lucia respectively. Latest CPL entrants St Kitts and Nevis bagged the services of Marlon Samuels . Round 1 : Bracket USD 150,000 Barbados , Guyana , Jamaica , St Lucia and Trinidad , having retained Pollard , Narine , Gayle , Sammy and Dwayne Bravo respectively , were not eligible to take part in round 1 of the draft. Meanwhile , a sum of USD 150,000 each was deducted from the teams ' caps. St Kitts and Nevis , who did not have any retained player featuring in the round one bracket , bagged Shahid Afridi . Build-up : Big names up for grabs Six teams will be looking to select their line-ups from a pool of 200 players through the Caribbean Premier League ( CPL ) 2015 draft that will be held in Kingston , Jamaica. While each team has already retained four players , they can pick 11 more from the draft while an under-19 cricketer will complete the squad of 16. Teams have a maximum cap of USD 600,000 for the draft , which will be held over 15 rounds . Pakistan players Shahid Afridi and Umar Akmal , South African allrounder Jacques Kallis , New Zealand 's Ross Taylor and Daniel Vettori as well as Sri Lankan stars like Mahela Jayawardene , Lasith Malinga and Tillakaratne Dilshan will be the big attractions during the draft , while most of the big West Indian names have already been retained by the six sides . St Kitts & Nevis Team were the latest addition to the CPL and they replaced Antigua Hawksbills as a seventh team could not be fitted in considering the window provided by the WICB. When the list of retained players were announced , it was also revealed that St Kitts & Nevis would retain four Hawkbills players. Amongst the retained players , Shoaib Malik and Kevin Pietersen were the overseas names . List of retained players : Barbados Tridents : Kieron Pollard , Shoaib Malik , Dwayne Smith , Ravi Rampaul Guyana Amazon Warriors : Sunil Narine , Lendl Simmons , Denesh Ramdin , Christopher Barnwell Jamaica Tallawahs : Chris Gayle , Andre Russell , Jerome Taylor , Chadwick Walton St Kitts & Nevis Team : Carlos Brathwaite , Devon Thomas , Orlando Peters , Justin Athanaze St Lucia Zouks : Darren Sammy , Kevin Pietersen , Johnson Charles , Andre Fletcher Trinidad and Tobago Red Steel : Dwayne Bravo , Darren Bravo , Samuel Badree , Kevon Cooper Draft structure : The six franchises , will have to pick players as per the corresponding salary slab. The draft will start with the USD 150,000 bracket and finish with those under the USD 5,000 bracket. According to CPL rules , if a franchise has already retained a player from one of the 15 brackets , it will not be allowed to pick one more player when that particular round is taking place. According to the salary of the players retained , money will be deducted from the cap of USD 600,000. After the draft concludes , teams have up to 24 hours to exchange a player with each other , but can do only one such exchange. Click here for full details © Cricbuzz
