ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 ( Full Coverage ) Dhawan 's touch only silver-lining for India in warm-up game Adelaide , 2015/Feb/08 05 : 21 : 00 , by G Rajaraman Text Size In an otherwise unremarkable game for the visitors , Dhawan 's knock would give India something to smile about. © Getty India 's bowling continues to puzzle and frustrate but Shikhar Dhawan has familiarised himself with a touch that has been missing for a long time to give India something to write home about in the batsmen-dominated warm-up game against Australia at the Adelaide Oval on Sunday , a week ahead of the big clash with Pakistan in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 . David Warner and Glenn Maxwell helped themselves to pacy centuries after Australia skipper George Bailey decided to take first strike on winning the toss , with only Umesh Yadav and R Ashwin succeeding in reining the home batsmen to some extent. Dhawan and Ajinkya Rahane did not exactly set the River Torrens on fire but gave the India faithfuls reason to cheer . India 's gain , if it could be termed that , was Dhawan 's half-century off 57 deliveries. The left-hander , who has searched across Australia for form , took his time to get his eye in and then played a good second fiddle to Rahane. If his key intent was to bat a long time , Dhawan did well to find his touch . Indian fans took up more space than Australian supporters at the Adelaide Oval on a day when the ground looked more empty than full. Just as next Sunday can be expectedly provide a more noisy ambiance , India 's think tank will be hoping that the team will come up with a competitive showing when the World Cup kickstarts for the team with a massively emotional clash . If Indian fans were looking for answers to a lot of questions on a hot Sunday afternoon , they were more disappointed than satisfied. Rahane extended his form from the tour into the warm-up game , dominating his 104-run stand for the third wicket with Dhawan but there was no other significant takeaway , unless you consider lessons as more important than performance . Virat Kohli , who was but the Young Turk in the batting line up that won the World Cup back in 2011 and has now become the team 's premier batsman , looked like he was on his way to a good knock when he inside-edged a ball from Mitchell Starc to the wicket via his pads but all other key batsmen gifted their wickets away . A day after saying he was excited by his first brush with World Cup cricket , Rohit Sharma was unable to back his intention of making it count as he offered a tame catch to Aaron Finch at second slip. He would have to admit that the talk of process being more important than result needs to be backed by an unflinching adherence to the right methods . Rahane combined classical batting with the innovative in making 66 off 52 balls ( eight fours ) but fell to a catch at mid-on in trying an ungainly shot from outside the off-stump. Dhawan chose a ball of fuller length to pull and looped a catch to wide mid-on. Both batsmen would have ample time to rue their stroke selection that led their dismissals . Suresh Raina was run out , his desperate dive finishing second best to Warner 's under-arm throw from short point while Mahendra Singh Dhoni hooked the first ball he received to be brilliantly caught a fine-leg by Starc , gifting Australia the third wicket in seven deliveries. Stuart Binny charged at Mitchell Johnson and missed contact to make it worse . India have scrapped training on Monday so that they could come back fresh for their final warm-up tie with Afghanistan but , on Sunday , India were battling a paradoxical combination of too much cricket for some and too much rust for others and hoping that the format of the World Cup would help them assemble things right at the business end of the big-ticket event . © Cricbuzz
