ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 ( Full Coverage ) Innings report : Dilshan ton sets base for SL 's 279 Christchurch , 2015/Feb/08 21 : 34 : 00 , by Jamie Alter Text Size Tillakaratne Dilshan continued his wonderful run by scoring yet another century. © AFP On an afternoon in which temperatures dropped to 12 degrees and the blustery wind threatened to blow the top off the media centre at the Hagley Oval , one third of Sri Lanka 's veteran retiring trio got useful runs against his name in the team 's penultimate fixture before the 2015 ICC World Cup starts later this week , helping the score to 279 for 7 in 44.4 overs before rain forced an early innings break . Coming off a dominant ODI series against New Zealand , in which he scored 397 runs in six innings , Tillakaratne Dilshan hooked and pulled himself to a hundred off 82 balls - moving from 64 to three figures in just 13 balls - to leave Sri Lanka set for a late surge. That came from Angelo Mathews after Wayne Parnell induced a slight wobble , with the out-of-form Sri Lanka captain scoring his first limited-overs fifty in over two months to ensure Dilshan 's effort was not wasted . After stand-in captain Hashim Amla opted to field , Dilshan led two fifty-plus partnerships for the second and third wickets after Lahiru Thirimanne edged Vernon Philander to Quinton de Kock - keeping wickets in place of the rested AB de Villiers - in the second over. From 1 for 1 , Dilshan and Kumar Sangakkara steadily defied South Africa 's five pace bowlers with a partnership of 76 at a decent 4.70 runs per over . As the sun made a welcome appearance four overs into the match , Dilshan 's timing started to improve ; he drove Dale Steyn for boundaries along the grass through the covers and over them , both times using his feet to come down the track. In the eighth over , a short ball from Philander was cracked past square leg off the back foot to take Dilshan to 24 off 25 deliveries. Sangakkara was more watchful , only collecting aggressive boundaries in the 11th over when he danced out and sliced Kyle Abbott over cover-point and drove Wayne Parnell for a first-ball four in the 15th over . Spin made an appearance after 17 overs with Imran Tahir , the sole spinner picked , bowling with the breeze as dark clouds started to waft over the deep midwicket boundary , forcing several of the security personnel stationed around the white picket fence to grab their neon windbreakers. With his sixth ball , Tahir had Sangakkara ( 31 ) mistiming a drive straight to Amla at mid-off. Sri Lanka were 77/2 in 18 overs . Dimuth Karunaratne , owning an ODI batting average of 15.30 and who batted at Nos 1 , 6 and 9 against New Zealand recently , came in at fourth spot and held up one and while Dilshan switched gears. Dilshan 's seventh boundary , a hooked four off Parnell , took him to his half-century in 60 balls and then he clattered Farhaan Behardien for four fours in an over and tucked into a wayward Morne Morkel in his second spell. A tapped single took Dilshan to his hundred , but off his next ball faced he became Kyle Abbott 's first success of the day . At 151 for 3 in the 28th over , Sri Lanka had a platform from where they could expand. After a period of tap-and-runs , Karunaratne took Steyn for a couple of fours in the 36th over , two deft shots either side of the wicket that were watched by Mahela Jayawardene as he entered the ground from a lengthy stint in the nets. The left-hander got to 46 before splicing a shot off Parnell , and David Miller held a good running catch from mid-on. In his second over of that spell , Parnell picked up Dinesh Chandimal for 5 , caught at the crease . A change of ends for Tahir prompted Mathews to swing his arms , and after a short rain delay he reached his fifty off 42 balls with a paddled four off the legspinner. Mathews ' 49-ball 58 helped Sri Lanka get past 250 before Abbott removed him and Thisara Perera , and then the rain returned to play spoilsport . Brief scores : Sri Lanka 279 for 7 in 44.4 overs ( Tillakaratne Dilshan 100 , Angelo Mathews 58 , Dimuth Karunaratne 46 , Wayne Parnell 2/44 , Kyle Abbott 3/37 ) v South Africa © Cricbuzz
