I thought of quitting in 2007 : Tendulkar New Delhi , 2015/Feb/11 10 : 19 : 00 Text Size " I was so depressed and so upset with the way we had performed. I actually thought of retiring then " - Sachin Tendulkar © BCCL Sachin Tendulkar , the legendary Indian batsman , has said that thoughts of quitting the game crossed his mind after India 's first-round exit at the 2007 World Cup in the West Indies. Tendulkar , who finally retired in 2013 , was rewarded when India won the coveted trophy four years later at his home ground , the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai . Tendulkar said it was his brother Ajit who persuaded him to continue and banish the thoughts of retirement until at least the next edition of the tournament , which was to be held in India . " I still remember ( after ) 2007 ( World Cup ) when I came back home , I was so depressed and so upset with the way we had performed. I actually thought of retiring then. I called my brother over , Ajit , and told him that I do not want to continue , " Tendulkar said in an interview to Headlines Today . India fared poorly in 2007 , losing to Bangladesh in their opening game before beating Bermuda , but failed to beat Sri Lanka in their last league match to crash out of the tournament. In the games against the two Test-playing nations , Tendulkar managed scores of 7 and 0 . " The game has been cruel to us and I want to stop. That was when he said , 'can you imagine in 2011 you are here at Wankhede stadium holding that beautiful trophy. That is when you should think of retiring'. That conversation really helped and it motivated me to go out and play with a purpose , " he said . His brother 's advice proved successful when India beat Sri Lanka in the final in Mumbai , giving Tendulkar the chance to add the elusive trophy to an already glittering career . Tendulkar said he was superstitious throughout the duration of the competition , barring himself from watching the television during the final , and had tears of happiness " because that moment was just a priceless moment. That moment was something that you can only dream of. " " It was not my trophy , it was our trophy , it was the nation 's trophy. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies )
