ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 ( Full Coverage ) Lasith Malinga is fit for Sri Lanka 's World Cup opener Christchurch , 2015/Feb/13 07 : 13 : 00 Text Size Sri Lanka captain Angelo Mathews insisted that Lasith Malinga is fit for their opening World Cup encounter against New Zealand. © AFP Sri Lanka captain Angelo Mathews insisted that pace spearhead Lasith Malinga is fit for their opening World Cup encounter against co-hosts New Zealand at Hagley Oval in Christchurch on Saturday. Malinga , who had an ankle surgery in September , just returned to action in Sri Lanka 's two warm-up matches , against South Africa and Zimbabwe , in which he bowled 4.3 overs and 7 overs respectively . " Lasith will definitely play and he is fit to go , " Mathews told reporters on Friday , before declining to name the eleven for the opening match . Malinga was a key contributor for Sri Lanka in the last two World Cups , helping his side to the final in both events. The Lankan pacer missed the recent ODI series against New Zealand , in which Sri Lanka were beaten by a comfortable fashion by the hosts. The Black Caps went on to win the seven match series 4-2 with one game abandoned due to rain . His absence was noticed during Sri Lanka 's recent series loss against New Zealand. The Mathews-led side looked out of sorts during their buildup to the tournament , losing both the Test and the ODI series. To top that off , they were beaten by Zimbabwe in their final World Cup warmup match at Lincoln earlier this week . The Lankan team have also been too reliant on experienced trio of Tillakaratne Dilshan , Kumar Sangakkara and Mahela Jayawardene to score the bulk of the runs while their pace attack has looked tame without Malinga charging in . " We had a couple of bad practice matches but we are not concerned about it because we were giving guys opportunities , " Mathews said of their final warm-up clashes. " We have a fairly experienced team but the past is the past and we ca n't look too far ahead. We need to take each game as it comes. We 've got to be aggressive and play good cricket to win against New Zealand. They 're on a roll so we need to back our strengths and go out there and be positive. " Malinga 's return will provide a definite challenge for New Zealand as admitted by skipper Brendon McCullum , who also said they had spoken at length of facing the 31-year-old , particularly at the end of an innings when he is most lethal . " We have done a lot of preparation for him , " McCullum said. " He is a world class bowler and makes a significant impact to their bowling lineup. He is a fantastic death bowler and Sri Lanka is certainly a better side with Lasith Malinga in it. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) More stories from ICC Cricket World Cup 2015
