Anil Kumble to be inducted into ICC Cricket Hall of Fame 2015/Feb/19 02 : 50 : 00 Text Size Kumble will be inducted during India 's match against South Africa © Getty Anil Kumble , India 's leading wicket-taker in Tests and ODIs , will be inducted into the ICC Cricket Hall of Fame. Kumble will become only the fourth Indian after Sunil Gavaskar , Kapil Dev and Bishan Singh Bedi to bag this honour . Kumble 's induction will take place at Melbourne on Sunday , where India take on South Africa in their World Cup encounter. As part of the induction , Kumble will receive a commemorative cap during the innings break of the match . Speaking about it , Kumble said , " It 's an honour to be inducted into the ICC Cricket Hall of Fame. Indeed , it will be a great moment of pride to receive it during the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. I deem it as a great privilege to join the list of great cricketing luminaries. " ICC Chief Executive David Richardson congratulated Kumble on his induction. " Anil was an outstanding international cricketer , a very well-respected opponent , a great statesman for his country and a role model for millions of aspiring cricketers. He played hard but within the spirit of the game. His performance and record speak volumes for his tenacity , commitment , endurance and service to the game. " Along with Kumble , Betty Wilson , one of the greatest women 's cricketers of all-time , will also be given the honour posthumously . Betty Wilson , a former Australia player , featured in 11 Tests between 1947 and 1958 in which she scored 862 runs at average of 57.4 and took 68 wickets at 11.8 per wicket. Wilson passed away on 22 January 2010 , aged 88 . Kumble and Wilson will be the 77th and 78th inductees into the Hall of Fame . " The process for the selection of players into the ICC Cricket Hall of Fame started last year when the ICC Chairman invited all the living ICC Cricket Hall of Famers to send their nominations. The ICC Nominations Committee reduced the long-list to 10 men 's and three women 's cricketers. The short-list was then sent to the Voting Academy , which included representatives of all the 10 Full Members , media representatives from all the 10 Full Members , Associate & Affiliate Member , women 's cricket and FICA representatives as well as living ICC Hall of Famers. The ICC collated the nominations and forwarded the ballot papers to the auditors who provided the final results , " said an ICC media release . © Cricbuzz
