ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 ( Full Coverage ) Chris Gayle 215 rewrites ODI and World Cup records 2015/Feb/24 01 : 13 : 00 , by Siddharth Vishwanathan Text Size Chris Gayle became the first batsman in World Cup history to score a double century. © Getty Chris Gayle was struggling for form heading into the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup against Zimbabwe at the Manuka Oval in Canberra. He had not scored a century for close to 20 months and there was some criticism regarding his form. However , on a gloomy afternoon , he spectacularly turned his form around and brightened the mood in the West Indies camp. It was a record-breaking exhibition of batting by Gayle and his knock , along with his partnership with Marlon Samuels , broke several World records in the process. Here is a look at the records that have been broken in this match : Chris Gayle blasted 215 off 146 balls. This is the first time that a double century has been scored in World Cups. The previous best was 188 * by Gary Kirsten against the UAE in 1996 . Marlon Samuels and Gayle shared a 372-run stand for the second wicket. This is a world record stand for any wicket in ODIs. The previous highest partnership was 331 between Sachin Tendulkar and Rahul Dravid against New Zealand in Hyderabad in 1999. This was also the highest partnership in World Cups , going past 318 set by Sourav Ganguly and Dravid against Sri Lanka in Taunton in 1999 . Gayle notched up his double century off 138 balls , the fastest ever double century in ODIs . Gayle 's score is the highest individual score by a West Indies batsman in ODIs. The previous highest score by a West Indies batsman in ODIs was 189 by Sir Viv Richards against England in Old Trafford in 1984 . Gayle become the second man to hit over 400 sixes in international cricket ( 229 ODIs , 98 in Tests and 87 in T20Is ) . Only Shahid Afridi has hit more sixes in cricket than Gayle . Gayle equalled the record of most sixes hit in ODIs. He hit 16 sixes in the innings , tied with Rohit Sharma and AB de Villiers. However , this is the most in a World Cup innings , going past the mark of nine sixes set by David Miller against Zimbabwe in Hamilton recently . Gayle became the first non-Indian batsman to score a double century in ODIs. This is the first double-century outside the sub-continent as well. This is the fifth double century in ODIs . Gayle is the only cricketer currently to have scored a hundred in T20Is , double hundred in ODIs and a triple hundred in Tests . © Cricbuzz
