ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 ( Full Coverage ) Chris Gayle 's 215 flattens Zimbabwe - Innings report 2015/Feb/24 01 : 31 : 00 , by CB Staff Text Size © Getty It took some time coming but when Chris Gayle finally delivered , he did so in thunderous fashion and a string of records were broken. Highest score in World Cup history , highest individual score for West Indies , the fastest double hundred in ODIs , most sixes in an ODI innings , and a lot more. You 'd be forgiven for forgetting that this man had not scored a 100 in ODIs for more than 20 months ! For West Indies , it could not have come at a better time in ICC World Cup 2015 . Marlon Samuels ' 8th ODI ton understandably became a footnote amidst Gayle 's stunning 215 but he played an important part in the world-record partnership as West Indies powered to 372/2. As with most of Gayle 's best knocks , the pacing of the innings was splendid. He got his fifty off 51 balls , his hundred off 105 balls but then exploded to score his next hundred off just 33 balls ! However it was a far cry from how his and West Indies ' innings started . After opting to bat first , West Indies ' opener Dwayne Smith was castled off just the second ball of the match by Tinashe Panyangara. Gayle could have been dismissed for a golden duck as well but Umpire Steve Davis turned down a close LBW call. What looked plumb to the naked eye was refuted by DRS , which supported the umpire , and Gayle survived , and later thrived . Rebuilding was the need of the hour for West Indies and that 's exactly what Gayle and Samuels did superbly. With rain clouds hovering over the Manuka Oval , West Indies made sedate but steady progress. Gayle was brisk but Samuels was a lot more watchful and got his fifty off 95 balls - the slowest in World Cup 2015. However Samuels ' go-slow approach did not hurt West Indies too much and was neutered by Gayle 's belligerence. It took Gayle 21 balls to move from 90 to 100 but the batting powerplay was in the offing and Gayle cut loose at the right time. 55 runs came in the batting powerplay between overs 35 and 40. Gayle scored 35 of them. That was the beginning of the carnage . The staggering stand sent Zimbabwe on a leather hunt. The pressure of Gayle 's onslaught showed on the Zimbabwe bowlers who had been very disciplined until the 35th over. Once he turned it on , Zimbabwe simply crumbled. They conceded 207 runs off the last fifteen as the screws came off. Samuels too joined in on the fun in the latter stages of the innings. He was dropped on 27 and looked scratchy for a long while but Gayle 's effort simply rubbed off on him. It had to after some time for the duo were involved in the longest and highest stand ever in ODIs. He took 22 off penultimate over by Panyangara as West Indies got the perfect finish to the innings . The record-breaking innings must be particularly sweet for Gayle , who faced public criticism from WICB president Dave Cameron before this game. A stronger statement could not have been made. The celebrations were muted as he kneeled down on the pitch with arms raised but was vociferously cheered on by his team-mates . The knock was a statement for all critics and doubters. Chris Gayle has arrived and so has West Indies in the World Cup. After a shock defeat to Ireland in their World Cup opener , they thrashed Pakistan in the previous game but the sheer dominance in this innings has shown that West Indies can not be taken lightly by anyone in this World Cup. West Indies ' highest score in ODIs might be just a little too much for Zimbabwe . © Cricbuzz
