Ranji Trophy 2014-15 ( Full Coverage ) Mumbai face uphill task after Mithun 's career-best knock Bangalore , 2015/Feb/26 06 : 28 : 00 , by Gokul Gopal Text Size Abhimanyu Mithun gave Karnataka a massive lead © Agencies If Vinay Kumar grabbed the headlines at the end of day 1 of the Ranji Trophy semi-final between Karnataka and Mumbai , it was his bowling partner Abhimanyu Mithun who came into the spotlight on day 2. However , it was not for his bowling efforts , but a career-best performance with the bat that helped Karnataka set Mumbai a huge target. The 25-year-old Mithun , who was sent in at the fall of Robin Uthappa 's wicket towards the end of the first day 's play , took on the Mumbai bowlers to come up with 89 off 113 balls and added 149 runs for the third wicket with Ravikumar Samarth ( 58 ) . For the second day in succession , Karnataka lost wickets in a hurry in the second session , with Shardul Thakur ( 4/69 ) tormenting them again , but they managed to finish with a total of 286 to leave Mumbai with a mammoth task of getting 445 in the 4th innings. Unlike day 1 , the Aditya Tare-led side did not lose any wickets , ending the day at 61/0 with the skipper unbeaten on 40 and Akhil Herwadkar giving him company on 21 not out . At the start of the day , Mithun was rapped on the pads a few times and played and missed a couple , but that did not deter him from playing his shots. He treated the short deliveries with disdain , used his wrists well for a few boundaries through mid-wicket , and did not think twice when going over the top. Samarth was a sturdy presence at the crease , happy to play second-fiddle to Mithun , who helped stretch Karnataka 's lead , while bringing up his fourth first-class fifty. Mithun went on to register his highest first-class score , going past his 63 not out against Orissa in 2010 , after which Samarth brought up Karnataka 's 100 in style , hitting left-arm spinner Harmeet Singh back over his head for a six. Next on the menu was the century stand , which was raised when Mithun struck Balwinder Singh Sandhu in front of square for a four . The third wicket pair milked the bowling for singles and twos while boundaries too were a regular feature. Mumbai , who looked lack-lustre on the field , did not help their cause by giving the batsmen a couple of reprieves. Luck favoured Mithun when he outside-edged BS Sandhu and the slip fielders just stood looking at each other. The lead crossed 300 and Karnataka went past 150 , following which Samarth brought up his fourth fifty + score of the season. Soon after that , Samarth also got a reprieve , put down by Tare when he chased a wide delivery bowled by Shardul . Karnataka had lost couple of wickets on either side of the lunch break on day 1 , and it was the same case on day 2. Mithun failed to make contact with a full delivery and was bowled by Shardul Thakur just before the break. The wicket ended a superb third wicket stand worth 149 runs , which came off 218 balls. Samarth fell in the first over after lunch , out stumped off Harmeet Singh without adding to his score before the break . Mumbai 's quick bowlers generated some swing and movement in the first session , but there was hardly any in the hour after lunch as Manish Pandey and Karun Nair settled into a good partnership. Apart from a wicket early in the session , spinner Harmeet was also handled without much problems and even a change of ball did not help Mumbai much. The fifth wicket pair extended the lead past 350 when Nair and Pandey took a liking to Harmeet in the 53rd over , smashing three fours. Karnataka also crossed the 200-run mark in the same over and soon after that , the pair also brought up the second 50 + stand of the innings. With the bowlers hardly causing any trouble , the fifth wicket pair could have added more to their partnership , had Nair not chased a wide delivery bowled by Sandhu , which he nicked to the keeper to depart on 28. This brought a stand worth 61 runs to an end . Kunal Kapoor , the next man in , departed cheaply again , handing a catch to Suryakumar Yadav to give Sandhu his third wicket. The bowler was hitting the right areas and also found some swing as he kept posing questions. The pressure created by him resulted in the run-out of Manish Pandey , who had to depart on 42 due to poor calling. Karnataka extended the lead past 400 when CM Gautam scored a couple of fours off Shardul. However , Vinay fell soon after that , caught and bowled by Harmeet , while Gautam became the ninth to depart , giving Shardul his third wicket. Shreyas Gopal scored some useful runs to stretch the lead , adding 25 runs for the last wicket , before being bowled by Shardul . Having watched his counterpart do a terrific job on day 1 , the Mumbai skipper seemed keen to lead by example. He looked solid in his defence , played some flourishing drives and also respected the bowlers , who were eager for blood. At the other end , Akhil Herwadkar was tentative , playing and missing on a few occasions and took a while to get off the mark. To his credit , the left-hander did not throw it away , doing the grind , while Tare scored the most in an unbeaten half-century stand as the opening pair lived to battle another day . Wicket-keeper batsman Gautam had picked up a hamstring strain while batting and did not take the field in the final session of the day. " He has done his hamstring and his quads ( hurt ) a bit. We will get to know about that ( only ) later , " said Samarth , at the end of the day 's play . © Cricbuzz
