Pietersen return possible , says new ECB chief 2015/Mar/01 07 : 19 : 00 Text Size The new ECB chief seems to have a soft corner for Pietersen. © AFP Incoming England and Wales Cricket Board chief Colin Graves seems to have no issues with the possibility of Kevin Pietersen playing for England again . The South Africa-born batsman was put out to pasture following the team 's Ashes humiliation in 2014 , and has since vehemently accused his team-mates and the ECB top brass several times of making him a scapegoat . However , possibly in light of the English cricket team 's dismal performances in the ICC World Cup , Graves appears to be entertaining the idea of taking the 34-year-old aggressive batsman back. " The first thing he 's got to do if he wants to get back is play county cricket for somebody , " Graves told BBC Radio 5 live 's Sportsweek . " It 's down to the selectors , down to the coaches , of what they see , what is best for English cricket. They will make the decisions and I will support them when it comes to that decision. " Pietersen , speaking to Sky Sports UK , welcomed Graves ' comments. " The previous chat was clearly that I had been banned from playing for England , that I 'd never play cricket for England again , which for me was incredibly sad because I do feel that my England career was cut short and taken away from me at 33 , " Pietersen said . " You have a look at the guys like [ Kumar ] Sangakkara , [ Tillekeratne ] Dilshan , all these guys scoring runs late on in their 30s that does n't mean that someone still ca n't perform at the best of their abilities in their late 30s . " It 's come as a pleasant surprise but one that I 'll need to have a think through. I 'll definitely want to speak to the ECB. Let 's just be clear - I 'd love to play for England again . " If it 's genuine , which I 'm sure it is , seeing as it 's pretty public Goodness , I would love to be given that opportunity again. I will need to go away and make some decisions ; I need to speak to a few people. Clearly [ I 've ] spent a lot of time with a lot of people who have helped me make a lot of decisions in my career. I 've spoken to a couple this morning already. So I 'll have to go away now and see where my future lies. But it 's really , really encouraging. " Graves also spoke about his displeasure with the team 's performance in the World Cup in Australia and New Zealand where they registered their third successive loss against Sri Lanka on Sunday. " If you look at the World Cup this year , it 's very aggressive early on , " he said . " Are our players as aggressive as the others ? They do n't appear to be. If that 's the case why not ? We need to talk about those things . " In ODIs we have underperformed. In Tests we are on the up , we have some fantastic young players coming through and have got to have some faith in them . " We have to have a strategy and in one-day internationals we have to improve. " © Cricbuzz
