BCCI elections 2015 ( Full Coverage ) Jagmohan Dalmiya elected unopposed as BCCI president 2015/Mar/01 23 : 41 : 00 Text Size Jagmohan Dalmiya is back at the helm of the BCCI after a period of 10 years. © AFP Jagmohan Dalmiya was elected unopposed as the BCCI 's new president replacing N Srinivasan in the elections held in Chennai on Monday. Shivlal Yadav chaired the BCCI AGM and also monitored proceedings in Chennai. Anurag Thakur , the Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association chief , is the new Secretary of the BCCI. Thakur beat Sanjay Patel by one vote to clinch the post. The victory of Thakur was also a setback for N Srinivasan 's camp. Sanjay Patel was a close aide of Srinnivasan while Thakur was supported by Sharad Pawar . Other posts : CK Khanna from DDCA will be the vice president from Central Zone. He beat Jyotiraditya Scindia of Madhya Pradesh. Another win for the Srinivasan camp . Anirudh Chaudhry beat Rajiv Shukla for the post of treasurer . TC Mathew will be vice president from West Zone although he came in representing Kerala. He pipped Ravi Sawant of Mumbai . Joint secretary post went to Amitabh Chaudhary. There was a tie between Chaudhary and Chetan Desai. ( The casting vote to break the tie was done by the chairman of the AGM , Shivlal Yadav ) . Chaudhary 's win was a victory for the Srinivasan camp as Desai was fielded by Pawar . M.L. Nehru - Vice President ( North ) Dr. G. Ganga Raju - Vice President ( South ) Gautam Roy - Vice President ( East ) There was some controversy earlier in the day when the suspended Rajasthan Cricket Association went ahead to try and take part in the AGM but were n't allowed to enter . Dalmiya , a former head of the ICC , emerged as the front-runner amid backroom negotiations for votes at elections. According to reports , Dalmiya was the strongest contender after garnering the support of six East Zone units. Apparently , he was the " consensus candidate " among rival factions for BCCI president , a position he held a decade ago , a report in PTI said . The Supreme Court barred Srinivasan from standing as a candidate for BCCI chief , although he can cast his vote , following its probe into a betting and fixing scandal surrounding the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) . The court in January found Srinivasan guilty of a conflict of interest for having commercial dealings in the sport by owning an IPL franchise while he was also BCCI head. Srinivasan is the current ICC chief while Dalmiya served as ICC president for three years from 1997 to 2000 . Dalmiya was ousted by rivals as BCCI chief in 2005 after a more than decade-long reign over the BCCI. The 74-year-old is credited with helping to turn the game into a lucrative global sport. He twice brought the World Cup to the Indian sub-continent , in 1987 and 1996. A BCCI spokesman declined to comment on the media reports , while Dalmiya himself could not be contacted . Dalmiya had attended the February 08 meeting of the BCCI working committee. Speaking to the Indian Express , one member of the CAB had said he was monitoring the Supreme Court developments on Srinivasan and he prepared himself as the consensus candidate . © Cricbuzz
