BCCI elections 2015 ( Full Coverage ) New BCCI secretary Anurag Thakur pledges to work for cricket 2015/Mar/02 08 : 32 : 00 Text Size Thakur beat Sanjay Patel to the secretary post. © BCCL New BCCI secretary Anurag Thakur pledged to serve the game of cricket in India after his election in the board 's annual general meeting in Chennai on Monday. On a day where Jagmohan Dalmiya was unanimously elected president , Thakur 's one-vote victory over Sanjay Patel , presumed to be close to former president N Srinivasan , was the biggest talking point . However , putting group allegiances aside , Thakur , known for his support of Sharad Pawar , spoke of working for the benefit of the game. " Every member of the BCCI is committed towards the betterment of the game. I can assure everyone that we will take all necessary steps to strengthen the board , strengthen cricket and take cricket to new heights , " Thakur said . " I think it is the victory of cricket. Our utmost priority is to restore the confidence of the people in cricket and to work on the image of cricket and the board . " I personally feel the members of the board will join to work in that direction , especially to reach the new heights in the field of cricket. " When asked what made him contest in the elections , Thakur , also the president of the Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association , said , " I think the message is very loud and clear that all of us as the members of the BCCI are keen to work together and change the image or restore the faith of people in the game of cricket . " It is not about individual 's victory. This is a victory that I dedicate to all the members , who have given me an opportunity to work. I am not a newcomer in the BCCI...I have been here for around 17 years. I have seen many ups and downs in the board. I have seen many elections , which were very very close . " This was also one of the very important elections at a very crucial time , which the BCCI is going through. I am sure all the members of the BCCI would give our best to restore the faith of people. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) More stories from BCCI elections 2015
