Pakistan Retain Winning Squad for Tests vs New Zealand Pakistan Retain Winning Squad for Tests vs New Zealand Pakistan won the two-Test series against Australia 2-0 , their first win against their opponents in 20 years . Last updated on Thursday , 06 November , 2014 22 : 25 IST Total Shares Pakistani bowler Zulfiqar Babar ( C ) claimed five wickets in the 2nd innings of the 2nd Test to leave Australians in tatters . © AFP Abu Dhabi : Pakistan retained the same 16-man squad for the first Test against New Zealand in Dubai , which earlier this week defeated Australia in a series , selectors said Thursday . Pakistan won the two-Test series against Australia 2-0 , their first win against their opponents in 20 years . Chief selector Moin Khan said it was necessary to keep the consistency in the first of three Tests starting from Sunday . " This is to ensure there is consistency , which will bring more stability and strengthen team bonding and combination , " Moin is quoted in a Pakistan Cricket Board release . Moin said the win highlighted the efforts by the players and the support staff . " We 're proud of Team Pakistan 's achievement in the series against Australia , which has been acclaimed locally and internationally. It was a heroic performance , led by the experienced duo of Younis Khan and Misbah-ul-Haq , admirably supported by the youngsters , and good training by the support staff , " said Moin . Younis amassed 468 runs in the two matches while Misbah hit centuries in each innings of the second Test , besides setting the new record for fastest Test half-century off just 21 balls and equalling the fastest hundred record of 56 balls . " There is no change to the side from the Abu Dhabi Test against Australia as we wanted to ensure there is consistency. " The remaining two Tests will be played in Dubai ( November 17-21 ) and Sharjah ( November 26-30 ) Pakistan will also play two Twenty20 and five one-day international against New Zealand , for which squads will be announced later . Squad for first New Zealand Test : Misbah-ul Haq ( captain ) , Ahmed Shehzad , Azhar Ali , Asad Shafiq , Ehsan Adil , Haris Sohail , Imran Khan , Mohammad Hafeez , Mohammad Talha , Rahat Ali , Sarfraz Ahmed , Shan Masood , Taufiq Umar , Yasir Shah , Younis Khan , Zulfiqar Babar . Story first published on : Thursday , 06 November 2014 21 : 21 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
