Cricbuzz at the World Cup ( Full Coverage ) Roadshow : A meditation session like no other at desolate SCG Sydney , 2015/Mar/04 08 : 21 : 00 , by G Rajaraman Text Size Curator Tom Parker ( R ) walking back after a hard day 's work. ( Image courtesy : G Rajaraman ) © Cricbuzz Some like to meditate by riverside , others do n't stir out of their rooms. Some like to meditate in the wee hours of the day and others gather themselves around twilight to calm their minds and ease into that state. On a hot Tuesday afternoon , I enjoyed such a spell at the desolate but beautiful Sydney Cricket Ground. By chance and not design , I hasten to add . Believing that Sri Lanka would be training at the SCG ahead of their match against Australia , I made my way to the hallowed ground only to find that Angelo Mathews ' team had taken the day off. Thirst took me to the Media Centre on the third floor of the Don Bradman Stand. Perhaps a sensor detected my presence and lights switched on automatically . As my luck would have it , the fridge door was locked . Unwilling to head out in the sun again , I took a seat in the empty Media Centre and gazed at the vast emptiness in front. There was not a soul in sight a far cry from Saturday when the ground was throbbing with life , South Africa skipper AB de Villiers carving the West Indies bowlers , fans soaking in the entertainment , food and beverage outlets doing brisk business . Yet , there was joy in experiencing the tranquil at SCG on Wednesday. Its strong character came through even in its silence. Unlike the famous Hill , which is now commemorated by a sculpture of Yabba , the brickwork Members and Ladies Stands fight against modern structure around the ground. They bring a unique touch to one of the finest cricket grounds around the world . The LCD advertisement panels that ring the ground during the World Cup matches had not arrived and that meant that the crew which rigs them up was missing as well. Groundstaff emerge from the tunnel beside the Bradman Stand to attend to the verdant square , especially the 22-yard strip that will host SCG 's next game in the ICC Cricket World Cup . Not far from the track that will be used on Sunday , there is one pitch that will not see much cricket on it in a hurry. The memory of Phil Hughes ' fatality will remain for a long while. It seemed inevitable that curator Tom Parker could not bring himself to prepare the particular pitch for another game soon . One man from curator Parker 's team operated a mechanised roller on the pitch. A while later , the square was treated to a quick spray of water. Finally , a team of four covered the square for the evening , with some extra layers of protection for the match pitch , and disappeared into the tunnel. Finally , Parker and a colleague walked away , casting long shadows on the ground . It was then that the ethereal beauty of an empty SCG came through. The ground has seen so many wonderful cricket battles and so many heroes. Don Bradman and Steve Waugh , Ricky Ponting and Michael Clarke , Richie Benaud and Shane Warne , have all walked the turf here with pride , courting success. As have many visiting cricketers . Freeze frames came from an acrimonious Test match in 2008 , with umpiring gaffes aplenty over-riding the reception that VVS Laxman and Sachin Tendulkar got when they made centuries at their favourite Australian venue. Thoughts of my getting under Australian skipper Ricky Ponting 's skin with a question on a dubious catch claim made a strong resurgence . We had to wait till late that evening on the final day of that Test to hear match referee Mike Procter 's verdict on Australia 's allegation that Harbhajan Singh had used a racially abusive term against Andrew Symonds a three-Test ban. It led to a lot of controversy with India winning a successful appeal before Justin Hansen . A Gautam Gambhir century in a losing cause in a tri-series game as well as Harbhajan Singh and Piyush Chawla 's crafty work with the ball and a Sachin Tendulkar hundred in India 's successful chase in the first final helped change the mood on India 's trips to SCG in March 2008 . The harsh sun caused brilliant shadows of the Members and Ladies Stands on the turf. But on Wednesday afternoon , with not a soul in sight for long spells of time , SCG was a desolately beautiful venue for a spontaneous session of meditation -- without thoughts of Virat Kohli and his spat with a mediaperson in faraway Perth coming as a distraction . © Cricbuzz
