Mumbai , 2015/Mar/09 03 : 41 : 00 , by Gaurav Gupta Text Size BCCI will forbid players obliging autograph requests during matches in India. © Getty From children to adults , no fan is immune to the thrill of getting an autograph from their favourite sportsperson. In fact , it 's a common sight to see fans beseeching cricketers fielding on the boundary for a quick autograph. Most players are happy to oblige , knowing that a scrawled signature can often be a souvenir that will be cherished for a lifetime . However , this link between cricketers and fans is set to be severed , if the BCCI has its way. " We have asked cricketers not to give autographs while the match is on , during the IPL , Champions League T20 and all other BCCI-organised matches in India. This could be a method through which bookies may connect with cricketers. Through an autograph book , a bookie can exchange vital information about the match with a player. For example , he can be asked to score a particular number of runs while batting , " KS Madhavan , senior investigating officer of the BCCI 's Anti Coruption Unit , told TOI on Sunday , while 'overseeing ' the Ranji Trophy final between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka at the Wankhede Stadium . While it is difficult to obtain autographs in India due to the grounds being fenced off , in most other countries fans are able to do so , as is visible at the ongoing World Cup in Australia and New Zealand. " It is a dangerous exercise and we ( anti-corruption officials of the BCCI and the ICC ) are trying to push for a world-wide ban on this , " Madhavan said . The retired Tamil Nadu SP , who has served in investigative agencies like NIA , SIT , CBI , ACB and the Anti-Corruption Bureau , reveals another interesting modus operandi used by the bookies these days. " They plant their 'agents ' in the stadium during games to tell them about the score. Since the TV telecasts slightly delayed action , it helps them rig bets and make money. For example , if they come to know that a batsman is out , they would take immediate bets on whether a four or a six would be hit off the next ball. This ensures they make a killing. So , we have to keep a tab on spectators ' behavior. In case of suspicion , we evict that particular person , like what happened in New Zealand recently , when a few bookies were thrown out of a ground during a World Cup game. However , we have to observe that person for a while before doing this , " he said . The 2013 IPL spot-fixing scandal , which saw three players being banned for life , has made the BCCI alert about educating players at the domestic cricket stage itself. Since the past couple of seasons , Madhavan and his colleague Anshuman Upadhyaya have been travelling to most Ranji Trophy venues. " This season , I have travelled to 10 venues. I am supposed to stay in the same hotel where the teams have been put up , take the same bus to the ground , and stay around for the duration of the game , before submitting a report about it to my boss ( Ravi Sawani , director , ACU of the BCCI ) . This ( domestic cricket ) is where the bookies can meet cricketers more easily. We educate the players about what they are supposed to do to avoid such people. I can gladly say that we have been successful in preventing such situations from occurring , " he said . " Our integrity officers educate the players , support staff and state association officials about the protocols of an international match. For example , they do n't allow anyone without proper accreditation to enter the dressing room or the teams ' area , " said BCCI General Manager ( game development ) Ratnakar Shetty . " During the IPL , I am supposed to know the entire guest list of a party. You can not eradicate fixing in the game completely , but you can certainly take preventive steps , " stressed Madhavan . © TNN
