Bengaluru , 2015/Mar/16 07 : 30 : 00 , by Gokul Gopal Text Size Karnataka have never successfully defended their Irani Cup title. © BCCL After securing back-to-back Ranji Trophy titles , Karnataka 's next aim will be to clinch the Irani Cup when they take on Rest of India at the Chinnaswamy stadium in Bengaluru on Tuesday. Karnataka have won the Irani Cup five times , with their latest win coming in the previous season . However , they have never successfully defended their Irani title and Vinay Kumar 's side will be eager to change that when they face the Manoj Tiwary-led team . With back-to-back Ranji Trophy and Vijay Hazare titles , along with one Irani Cup , Karnataka have now won five domestic competitions in the last two seasons , and a victory against ROI will add one more feather to their remarkable run. The Karnataka players will also be driven to make the match a memorable one for skipper Vinay , who will be playing his 100th first-class game . While opening batsman KL Rahul and wicketkeeper CM Gautam have been ruled out due to injuries , Karnataka still have a powerful line-up , and well-oiled at that. The defending champions are likely to hand 20-year-old right-handed batsman Abhishek Reddy a debut , as hinted by the captain. Abhishek , who will replace Rahul , has represented Belagavi Panthers in the Karnataka Premier League and will be the only new face in the eleven. There wo n't be too many changes in rest of the batting line-up as regulars like Robin Uthappa , Manish Pandey , Karun Nair and R Samarth are expected to feature. Vinay also confirmed that Uthappa will continue handling the wicket-keeping duties in the absence of Gautam . As far as the bowling line-up is concerned , Vinay said they will go in with a four-pronged pace attack just like they did against Tamil Nadu in the Ranji Trophy final. Vinay and Abhimanyu Mithun will have the support of Sreenath Aravind and HS Sharath. Leg-spinning allrounder Shreyas Gopal will have to do the bulk of the bowling in the spin department while the captain can also turn to part-timers like Samarth , Bhavane and Nair. " Seeing this wicket , we may go with the same combination [ as in the Ranji final ] , but a final call will be taken after seeing the wicket in the morning , " said Vinay , on the eve of the game . The high-on-confidence Karnataka side did not go through a rigorous training session before the match day , preferring to have a light outing instead. The bowlers mainly focussed on their run-ups while the batsmen looked at getting their stance right and getting the bat down properly , among other things. On the other hand , the ROI team hit the nets hard under the watchful eyes of coach Lalchand Rajput . Indian speedster Varun Aaron had a good workout , as did Mumbai 's Shardul Thakur , who was the joint-highest wicket-taker of the 2014-15 Ranji season along with Vinay. In their practice session , it seemed like a competition between Shardul and Aaron as to who would beat the batsmen most number of times. Seam-bowling allrounder Vijay Shankar too had an extended spell. The pacemen bowled with a lot of steam and also got good bounce and movement from the practice pitch , an indicator that the main wicket , mostly greenish in appearance , would give the quick bowlers a lot of assistance. In the other nets , Pragyan Ojha did a good job with his left-arm spin , asking the batsmen quite a few questions , while off-spinning allrounder Baba Aparajith was n't far behind . The Rest of India side , brimming with talented players from all parts of the countries , will be keen to deny Karnataka another title against their name. They have a good balance as far as their team is concerned with quality pacers , an experienced spinner , talented allrounders as well as promising batsmen. Jiwanjot Singh and Unmukt Chand , who spent considerable amount of time in the nets to work on their batting , are likely to open for ROI. The team also have a formidable middle order with the presence of skipper Tiwary , Kedar Jadhav and capable allrounders like Vijay , Aparajith , and Jalaj Saxena. Wicketkeeper-batsman Naman Ojha , who has been in good form this season , also spent some time batting in the nets and he looked at ease against both spin and pace. Naman , who averaged 69.62 in the 2014-15 edition of the Ranji Trophy with two hundreds and three fifties , is a vital cog in the ROI middle order . Regarding the team composition for the game , Tiwary indicated that they would go in with three frontline pacers with one slot for a spinner , which will be taken up by Pragyan. " The nature of the Chinnaswamy Stadium pitch is that it assists the seamers a lot on the first day , and the spinners do n't have much of a role initially. It 's mostly Pragyan [ for the spinner 's spot ] because he has been a great bowler for India. " " We are looking for three seamers , which is a must on this wicket. For the batting , we have to sit down and decide , " Tiwary said , when asked about the likely combination . Teams : Karnataka ( from ) : Vinay Kumar ( c ) , Mayank Agarwal , Sreenath Aravind,Chandrushekar Avinash , Shishir Bhavane , Chidhambaram Gautam,Shreyas Gopal , Abhimanyu Mithun , Karun Nair , Manish Pandey , Abhishek Reddy , Ravikumar Samarth , HS Sharath , Jagadeesha Suchith , Robin Uthappa ( wk ) Rest of India ( from ) : Manoj Tiwary ( c ) , Varun Aaron , Baba Aparajith , Unmukt Chand , Rishi Dhawan , Paras Dogra , Kedar Jadhav , Jiwanjot Singh , Rush Kalaria , Naman Ojha ( wk ) , Pragyan Ojha , Jalaj Saxena , Vijay Shankar , Shardul Thakur , Jayant Yadav © Cricbuzz
