Bengaluru , 2015/Mar/20 07 : 09 : 00 , by Gokul Gopal Text Size Abhimanyu Mithun picked up three quick wickets to hasten Karnataka 's win © BCCL Triple title-holders in the 2013-14 season - Vijay Hazare Trophy , Ranji Trophy and Irani Cup - Karnataka completed a successful treble defence when they overcame Rest of India with ease , securing a 246-run victory at the Chinnaswamy stadium in Bengaluru in the Irani Cup match. A fine unbeaten 123 by Man-of-the-Match Manish Pandey , who spent 287 minutes in the middle , helped Karnataka set ROI a stiff target of 403. Abhimanyu Mithun ( 3/40 ) and Shreyas Gopal ( 4/39 ) then combined to wrap things up in a jiffy , needing a little less that three and a half hours to bowl out the Manoj Tiwary-led side . This was the first time that Karnataka successfully defended their Irani Cup title while they also became only the third team after ROI and Mumbai to win the trophy in two successive years. It also was a perfect sign-off for captain Vinay Kumar , who was playing his 100th First-Class game . The only positives for ROI in the second innings were figures of 5/86 for Shardul Thakur , who picked up his sixth fifer of the season and his maiden five-wicket haul in the Irani Cup , while Kedar Jadhav ( 56 ) scored his second half-century of the match . At the start of the day , Vinay Kumar added 10 runs to his overnight score before falling to Shardul on 38 off 77 balls. The ball was pitched on a good length and moved away late , and all Vinay could do was get a faint edge to the keeper. His dismissal ended a partnership worth 65 off 129. After the departure of the skipper , Pandey went on a rampage as he took the attack to Varun Aaron. In the 104th over , Pandey moved back and guided the first ball over third man for a six. He swatted away the next delivery to the square leg boundary , pulled the third one over mid-wicket for a six and got his second four of the over by cutting the fourth delivery to the third man boundary. He got his second hundred of the season , with a couple sliced over point just short of Dhawan who was rushing in from the ropes . While Mithun was bowled by Shardul Thakur on 10 , Pandey continued to bat aggressively , upper-cutting Aaron over third man in the 106th over for his second six to power Karnataka to 400 , before he outside-edged one that travelled between the keeper and first slip for a four. Thakur , meanwhile went on to pick up his fourth scalp by trapping Aravind in front. HS Sharath hung around for a while with Pandey to help extend the home team 's lead past 400 before becoming the last to depart when a short delivery from Shardul left him in an awkward position as he handed a catch to Paras Dogra at gully . In the second over of the fourth innings , Unmukt Chand pushed at a Mithun delivery outside off without any footwork and ended up nicking it Uthappa to depart on 1. Paras Dogra ( 0 ) did not last long as he was bowled by Mithun in the same over. It was a delivery that kept slightly low and beat the batsman 's defences. The bowler was not finished yet as he got Naman Ojha to edge one to the keeper with a delivery that moved away late after pitching on a good length to leave ROI reeling at 8/3 . Jiwanjot Singh was struck on his boot when Vinay attempted a shy at the stumps on his follow-through. The opening batsman was in some pain and required help from the physio , while the umpire had a chat with the Karnataka skipper. He resumed after a short while and along with Manoj Tiwary , had to shoulder the responsibility of helping ROI recover from their dismal start. The pair went about their game in a watchful manner , not attempting anything fancy but capitalising on the loose deliveries to keep the scorecard ticking . They added 55 runs for the fourth wicket before HS Sharath ended Jiwanjot 's stay in the 24th over. The batsman tried to cut a widish delivery , but could not connect properly. Abhishek Reddy juggled before hanging on to the ball on the rebound. The television umpire 's help was sought to check if it was a clean catch before Jiwanjot made his way back on 38. Tiwary 's poor season continued as he fell two overs later , dragging the ball onto the stumps while looking to push at a delivery outside-off , to give Sreenath Aravind his only wicket . Despite wickets going down in quick succession , Jadhav played his natural game , finding the boundaries at a regular rate , while Jayant Yadav tried to assist him in building a partnership. With three boundaries off Mithun in the 28th over and two fours and a six off Gopal in the 35th over , Jadhav moved to 37 while taking ROI past the 100-run mark before tea. However , Yadav ( 10 ) fell soon after the break , trapped in front by Gopal and his dismissal ended a partnership worth 48 runs off 63 deliveries. Rishi Dhawan had a short outing , trapped leg-before on 10 to a delivery that kept low. Shardul Thakur also fell to the leg-spinner , bowled after coming down the track and missing the ball . Jadhav went on to bring up his second half-century of the match , when he scored a six and took a single off Gopal in the 43rd over. After getting his fifty off 46 deliveries , Jadhav hit the leg-spinner for one more six in the same over. However , a slog-sweep to seek the third maximum of the over resulted in Jadhav becoming Gopal 's fourth wicket as he found Reddy at deep mid-wicket. Pragyan Ojha ( 0 ) was the last to depart , run out after a misunderstanding with Aaron , as Karnataka won by a thumping margin . © Cricbuzz
