Text Size Have n't retired from any format : Chris Gayle © AFP There were speculations that the fourth quarter-final between West Indies and New Zealand on Saturday might well have been Chris Gayle 's final one-day match , but the big-hitting Jamaican has put that theory to rest. Gayle wants to keep playing international cricket and is eyeing the 2016 T20 WC , but admitted his repeated back injury will keep him out of action for the Test series against England in April . " Definitely want to play the T20 WC next year for West Indies , there 's no doubt about that , " Gayle said. " I 've got a few concerns and a few injuries to try and solve. I 'll give myself some time and hopefully look back at it and see how well I can actually progress for West Indies cricket at this point in time . I 'm actually out of the Test series ( against England ) , the back wo n't hold up for that format at this point in time , but I have n't retired from any format as yet. As I go on , I will keep informing WICB about my progress in the future with West Indies cricket. " Gayle did n't have the best of World Cups by his standards but despite that , emerged as West Indies ' highest-run scorer in the tournament with 340 runs in six matches. He missed the game against UAE with a back trouble but returned for the crunch quarter-final match on Saturday. The 35-year-old admitted that his back held up well , although he did sustain an injury to his groin during the match . " [ The back ] actually held up well , to be honest with you , in the outfield for 50 overs and then opening the batting , " Gayle told ESPNcricinfo. " It was n't too bad , slight scare again with a niggle in the groin , so all that was happening , and you have to take the conditions into consideration , it was a bit cold and you 're feeling some pain. " Gayle hit with a typically flamboyant 33-ball 61 as New Zealand knocked West Indies out with a 143-run win. Reflecting back on West Indies ' campaign , Gayle said his side played good cricket , but missed having the experience of Dwayne Bravo and Kieron Pollard , who were omitted from the squad . " I thought we played some great cricket , " Gayle said. " It was a situation where you look at it , we reached a quarterfinal , anything could have happened , you just need two good games. You chase 390 runs , psychologically it will affect your batsmen , but if we actually had a better plan or structure chasing these sort of targets , it could have helped us in some sort of way . " [ We were bowled out for ] 250 with 19 overs to go , that goes to tell how dangerous we can be , but just to get the mindset right and get a hold of everything and the players to actually believe we can make these things happen. " Gayle had earlier openly criticised the West Indies Cricket Board for the surprise exclusions of Bravo and Pollard. The Clive Lloyd-led selection panel took the controversial call of axing the two prominent players in January on disciplinary reasons , a move that Gayle had termed 'ridiculous'. " Yes we missed [ Bravo and Pollard ] , but I thought we did well. We had a good all-round team , and the guys played some crucial innings for us . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies )
