2nd Test : Shakib Al Hasan Stars as Bangladesh Crush Zimbabwe to Seal Series 2nd Test : Shakib Al Hasan Stars as Bangladesh Crush Zimbabwe to Seal Series Zimbabwe , set a target of 314 , were bowled out for 151 in their second innings after tea on the fifth day with Shakib Al Hasan claiming five wickets for 44 runs . Last updated on Friday , 07 November , 2014 18 : 23 IST Total Shares Shakib celebrates with Bangladeshi teammates in Khulna . © AFP Khulna : Shakib Al Hasan became only the third player in history to score a century and take 10 wickets in a match as Bangladesh whipped Zimbabwe by 162 runs in the second Test on Friday to win the series. ( Scorecard ) The left-arm spinner claimed five for 44 in Zimbabwe 's second innings as the tourists , set a victory target of 314 , were bowled out for 151 after tea on the fifth and final day in Khulna . Bangladesh , who won the first Test in Dhaka by three wickets , took an unbeatable 2-0 lead in the three-match series. ( Shakib Had Aimed for Rare Test Double ) Shakib 's 10-wicket haul in the Test -- he took 5-80 in the first innings -- followed a crafty 137 on the second day and deservedly won the man of the match award . The 27-year-old joined Ian Botham of England and Imran Khan of Pakistan as the only cricketers to score a hundred and claim 10 wickets in a match . Hamilton Masakadza , who scored a century in the first innings , was the only Zimbabwean to defy the spinners in the second innings with 61 . Shakib began by removing Sikandar Raza and Brendan Taylor , then dismissed Masakadza after lunch before grabbing the wickets of Elton Chigumbura and Natsai M'shangwe . Shakib was supported by left-arm spinner Taijul Islam , who took 3-44 , and leg-spinner Jubair Hossain ( 2-42 ) as Zimbabwe lost their last five wickets for 14 runs . Earlier , Bangladesh declared their second innings at 248-9 in the morning session after Shuvagata Hom completed his maiden half-century. Mohammad Mahmudullah top-scored with 71 . The third and final Test starts in Chittagong on November 12. The Tests will be followed by five one-day internationals . Story first published on : Friday , 07 November 2014 15 : 14 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
