ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 ( Full Coverage ) Controversies of 2015 World Cup 2015/Mar/30 02 : 07 : 00 Text Size © As with any other tournament organized on as large a scale as the ICC Cricket World Cup , the 2015 edition of the tournament brought with it , moments that left a bitter after-taste. During the match , after the match , in a casino - Cricket 's mega event was not short of action. Some created national furore while others died down with the emergence of a new controversy. Cricbuzz takes a look at a few such incidents that crept up during the six-week tournament . 1. No ton for you Taylor © The Australia-England marquee clash at the MCG on the opening day of the tournament failed to live up to its pre-match hype as England turned in a flat performance against their traditional rivals and succumbed to a heavy defeat. However , an umpiring blunder denied young English batsman James Taylor a chance to complete a World Cup century. Taylor , who had motored along to 98 even as his team-mates fell by the wayside , was rapped on the pads by a Josh Hazlewood delivery and was adjudged out leg-before wicket. Taylor , who in the meanwhile had set off for a single , instantly called for a decision review even as Glenn Maxwell , knocked down the stumps to run out the No.11 batsman James Anderson. While Taylor survived the lbw review , Anderson was adjudged run-out leaving the former stranded two short of his ton. According to the DRS playing conditions rule , the ball should have been deemed dead when the batsman was originally given out and no further runs or dismissals should have been possible. A day after the incident , the ICC acknowledged that the game ended incorrectly and Taylor ended his maiden World Cup without a ton . 2. To Casino and home © Over the years Pakistan 's World Cup campaigns have been blighted by rather unfortunate controversies. The 2015 World Cup was no different. Pakistan 's Chief Selector Moin Khan was asked to return home by the country 's cricket board after the former cricketer was spotted in a casino two days before their crucial tie against West Indies. Moin , in his capacity as selector , was not an official member of the touring contingent and did n't break any disciplinary code but his presence in a casino created an uproar in Pakistan where gambling is illegal. In a subsequent meeting with PCB chief Shaharyar Khan , Moin apologised and accepted that it was inappropriate of him to have visited the casino but clarified that he had only gone there to have dinner with a few friends . Moin was not the only person to be sent home mid-way through the World Cup. In a separate incident , Scotland 's leading wicket-taker Majid Haq was dismissed from the World Cup by the country 's cricket board for posting a tweet about racial injustice after being dropped for the Sri Lanka game. His tweet " Always tough when you are in the minority " was subsequently deleted . 3. Angry Virat and the case of mistaken identity © Virat Kohli has developed as big a reputation for his 'no-holds barred ' brand of aggressive cricket when it comes to batting. In the 2015 World Cup , India 's vice-captain took his aggressive streak out of the playing field when he hurled a tirade of abuse at an Indian journalist for reportedly having previously published stories about his private life. In a classic case of mistaken identity , the recipient of Kohli 's verbal volley was not the intended target. The matter escalated quickly prompting Kohli into a quick apology. The journalist then filed complaints with the ICC and BCCI forcing the newly appointed secretary of BCCI , Anurag Thakur , into issuing statements clarifying the incident. Since the player did not violate any law applicable , the matter was then laid to rest . 4. Not even for sponsorship commitments ? Roger that . © Any India-Pakistan match is likely to garner mass following. And when they play in World Cups , reactions in the two sub-continent nations border on hysteria. Brands cash in on the general euphoria to position themselves in the market. One such marketing gimmick from sporting apparel giants 'Nike ' took an unintended turn. During the first innings of the game , Tennis legend and Nike brand ambassador Roger Federer was pictured holding the India World Cup jersey ( designed by Nike ) in an apparent show of allegiance. While the fans of the Indian team lapped it up , many of the Federer 's ardent supporters from Pakistan voiced their displeasure on social media. The public outrage forced the 17-time major winner into issuing a statement - " It was more of a Nike thing to be quite honest. It was a Nike campaign they had because I met some of the Indian players and I had just spent some time in India so they presented the shirt to me. " 5. A contentious catch and its ugly aftermath © Ireland 's group stage clash against Zimbabwe , despite being engrossing , produced a long-drawn out controversial episode. In a defining moment during the Zimbabwe 's run-chase , Ireland pacer John Mooney completed a contentious catch on the boundary to dismiss the well-set Sean Williams. Because the slow motion replays remained inconclusive on whether the fielder touched the boundary rope while completing the catch , the benefit of the doubt was widely expected to be given to the batsman. Williams however took the word of the fielder and had already walked off. Ireland went on to win the game by five runs before the aftermath of the catch incident kicked in. Stand-in Zimbabwean skipper Brendan Taylor felt that his team had become victims of a World Cup miscarriage of justice but added that one had to take the word of the fielder . The controversy took an uglier turn after a Zimbabwe newspaper published an article with the headline 'Alcoholic Mooney dumps Zim out of WC ' and mocked the Irishman 's battle with alcohol and depression. Mooney , who was issued an apology by Brendan Taylor , then hit back at the newspaper and said that he hoped the personal attack on him would not discourage others with mental health problems from speaking up . 6. No ball ? No way ! © Bangladesh , who progressed to their first World Cup quarter-final following their defeat of England , were at the receiving end of an unfortunate umpiring decision by square-leg umpire Aleem Dar who signalled for a waist-high no-ball against fast-bowler Rubel Hossain who had Rohit Sharma caught at deep square-leg off a full-toss. Replays indicated that the ball had clearly dipped below the waist and that the batsman should have been given out. Rohit , who was in the nineties then , proceeded to score 137 helping dump Bangladesh out of the World Cup. Aleem Dar 's decision sparked a public outrage in Bangladesh. ICC president Mustafafa Kamal led the outrage and said he would have the ICC investigate the poor standard of umpiring. Bangladesh 's Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina waded into the controversy by claiming that her country would not have lost had the correct decision been given. ICC however put a lid on the whole incident by claiming that it was a 50-50 call and that the spirit of the game dictates that the umpire 's decision is final and must be respected. The umpire , Aleem Dar , however did not officiate in any of the semi-finals or the final . 7. Will we , wo n't we ? © Even before the start of the 2015 World Cup , ICC went public with its stance of scheduling the 2019 edition as 10-team event. Then Ireland happened. For a third World Cup in a row , they beat a Test playing nation. Their win against West Indies was followed by two more wins in Group B leaving the Irish , a step away from qualification to the knockout phase. Equally impressive was the performance of first time World Cuppers Afghanistan. Amidst the widespread opposition against ICC 's draconian decision , Ireland captain William Porterfield stepped up to echo the sentiments of fellow associate nations. " This is the International Cricket Council. If the vision for the game is to shrink it and make as much money for the top few nations as possible , then come out and say that. It 's frustrating when we keep doing everything that 's asked of us by the ICC , and then they keep slapping you in the face with decisions like this , " he said. Despite the opposition , ICC chief Dave Richardson and chairman N Srinivasan have maintained that the next edition will feature reduced participants in order to keep the tournament more competitive . © Cricbuzz
