Kyle Mills anounces retirement from all formats Wellington , 2015/Mar/31 20 : 56 : 00 Text Size Kyle Mills did n't feature in any of New Zealand 's games in the 2015 World Cup. © Getty New Zealand pace bowler Kyle Mills , on Wednesday , announced his retirement from all forms of cricket. Mills ' retirement follows that of Daniel Vettori , who called it quits after the World Cup final , last Sunday. While Vettori has kept open the possibility of playing lucrative T20 tournaments , Mills said he had retired completely from all forms of the game . " It 's been an honour and privilege to play cricket for my country over the past 14 years and I will miss it greatly , " the 36-year-old said. " However the time is right for me to step away from playing this great game and devote more time to my family who have sacrificed so much for me to keep playing the game I love. " A fast-medium bowler , Mills made his international debut against Pakistan at Sharjah in 2001 before making his Test debut at Nottingham three years later. While hewas consistently ranked among the world 's top 10 one-day bowlers throughout his illustrious 14-year career , his Test career failed to reach the heights originally envisioned having featured in only 19 Tests . Mills represented New Zealand in 170 ODIs and took 240 wickets to be the Black Caps ' second highest wicket-taker in the shortened game behind Vettori , who took 297. He alsotook part in three World Cups , although in the latest edition he was one of three members of the New Zealand squad who did not take the field as the Blacks Caps kept a largely unchanged line up throughout the tournament . " Kyle has been a wonderful ODI player over a long period of time and , but for injury , would have played closer to 200 games for New Zealand , " New Zealand Cricket chief executive David White said. " However , what I 'll always remember Kyle for most was when he knocked over the England Test team 's top-order during his match-winning spell at Hamilton in 2008 , dismissing in quick succession Alastair Cook , Michael Vaughan , Andrew Strauss and Kevin Pietersen. " New Zealand coach Mike Hesson heaped praise on the fast bowler and credited his work ethic. " To have the longevity that Kyle 's had takes an incredible work ethic and desire to represent your country , " he said. " On top of what he 's achieved on the field , he 's also a fantastic bloke and a great team man. He 's a natural leader who did a superb job of captaining the side in Bangladesh and Sri Lanka last year and has brought a lot of passion to the group. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies )
