McCullum named New Zealand Player of the Year 2015/Apr/01 05 : 11 : 00 Text Size McCullum led New Zealand to great heights in the 2014-15 season. © AFP Brendon McCullum has been named New Zealand 's Cricketer of the Year on Wednesday in an awards ceremony hosted by New Zealand Cricket in Auckland . The Black Caps captain , who led New Zealand to quite a few successes in the 2014-15 season across all formats , including a place in the 2015 World Cup final , was presented with the Sir Richard Hadlee Medal . Batsman Kane Williamson won three prestigious awards - the ANZ Twenty20 International Player of the Year , the ANZ ODI Player of the Year and the ANZ Test Player of the Year. The 24-year-old also bagged the Redpath Cup for First Class Batting . Left-arm pacer Trent Boult , who was the joint-highest wicket-taker at the World Cup on 22 scalps with Australian Mitchell Starc , was awarded the Winsor Cup for First Class Bowling . " Incredibly humbled. [ The award ] is for everyone in the group. We now have a team that 's heading in a direction that 's pretty exciting.We 've got some great blokes and some tremendous players. A lot is made about our lack of player depth. I do n't buy into that. Us being small and dynamic enables us to be quite innovative and instinctive , " McCullum said after receiving the award . " We 've created some memories that will last a lifetime [ during the World Cup ] . The next little while will be a huge challenge for us... We 'll reconnect for England and what a tour that could be.Test success over there , if we 're able to achieve that , I think that 'll go down as something that we 'll all remember for a long time.And pretty sure we 've got the right personal for it , " he added . New Zealand Cricket Awards 2014-15 season Sir Richard Hadlee Medal : Brendon McCullum International Women 's Player of the Year : Suzie Bates Redpath Cup ( Batting ) : Kane Williamson Winsor Cup ( Bowling ) : Trent Boult ANZ Twenty20 International Player of the Year : Kane Williamson ANZ ODI International Player of the Year : Kane Williamson ANZ Test Player of the Year : Kane Williamson Domestic Cricketer of the Year : Men : Andrew Ellis Domestic Cricketer of the Year : Women : Amy Satterthwaite Bert Sutcliffe Award : Ross Dykes © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies )
