Shakib confident of Bangladesh 's chances against Pakistan 2015/Apr/02 23 : 35 : 00 Text Size I think we should be starting as favourites against Pakistan - Shakib Al Hasan © Getty Ahead of the three-ODI series between Bangladesh and Pakistan starting April 17 , allrounder Shakib Al Hasan is beaming in confidence and believes his team has a good chance of beating their Asian neighbours. Currently Bangladesh 's leading run-scorer in ODIs , Shakib will be playing two IPL games for his franchise Kolkata Knight Riders before returning to Bangladesh for national duty . Bangladesh are coming off a successful World Cup 2015 where they made it to the quarter-finals before being eliminated by India. Though they have beaten Pakistan just once in ODIs - 1999 World Cup in England , Shakib reckons their good home record will work in favour of the side. " I will start training from Friday , " Shakib said. " I will only play two matches in the IPL so the Pakistan series will be on my mind. If I do well in the two matches , that confidence will work in my favour . " I think we should be starting as favourites to win the ODI series against Pakistan. I think this is our best chance to win against Pakistan. Everyone in the team believes so , too. We have proved that we can beat any team at home. If we play our best cricket , we can do well against any side. We beat New Zealand seven times , and they are the World Cup runners-up. " Bangladesh endured a wretched 2014/15 season , losing 12 of the 18 ODIs last year. The 3-0 loss to Sri Lanka and another 2-0 to India at home failed to mask a poor year ; and even though the ODI win against Zimbabwe in December was the only saving grace , it was n't enough to prevent them from slipping to No.9 in the ICC ODI team rankings . The promising show in the World Cup are good signs , but Shakib believes Bangladesh need to move up the ladder as quickly as possible due to the guidelines laid out by the ICC for the next World Cup. " It is a very important year for us since it will be a 10-team World Cup next time. We need to go up the rankings , " he said. " If we can win against higher-ranked sides , we will get more points . " Ultimately we have to stay within the top eight to play in the World Cup. We have been around No 9 and 10 for a long time. We got up to No 8 for a brief period , but now we have to get to that level and stay there. " Shakib , 28 , looked back at his side 's World Cup outing with immense satisfaction , though mentioning that there always is room for improvement. He was particularly happy with the way a few youngsters stepped up to the big occasion. Soumya Sarkar,22 , played a few entertaining knocks at the top and Sabbir Rahman , primarily a leg-break bowler , contributed with a half-century and couple of 40s down the order . " There is no end to performing better. I think I did well in the World Cup. If I could have ended the tournament like I had started , it obviously would have been better , " Shakib said. " Still , I do n't think I should be disappointed about the numbers next to my name in this World Cup . " I thought the new players did well. The team performed , which is the most important thing. Soumya , Sabbir and Taskin played well. The senior players were also up to the mark. The team is in good shape. The young players have to perform , not to be taught. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies )
