Chris Gayle likely to miss Australia series Bengaluru , 2015/Apr/03 00 : 05 : 00 Text Size Gayle 's back injury may force him to miss back-to-back Test series against England and Australia © Getty West Indies batsman Chris Gayle in all likelihood , will miss the home Test series against Australia set to start in June. Gayle 's chronic back injury is unlikely to help him withstand the rigors of competitive five-day cricket. The left handed opener , who has already announced his unavailability for the upcoming home Test series against England , is set for another stint with the Royal Challengers Bangalore in the lucrative Indian Premier League ( IPL ) . Gayle , who is scheduled to fly to England following the IPL to play T20s with county side Somerset in a tournament whose schedule clashes with Australia 's visit to the Carribean , will likely skip the entirety of the Test series. After his stint in the UK , Gayle will play in the second season of the Caribbean Premier League beginning on June 20. The destructive left-hander who did n't feature in West Indies ' Test series against South Africa late last year , had said that he has set his sights on playing the World T20 in India in 2016 . " I definitely want to play the T20 WC next year for West Indies there 's no doubt about that , " Gayle said after the World Cup. " But I 've got a few concerns and injuries to try and solve. " I 'm out of the Test series ( against England ) but I have n't retired from any format as yet. " As I go on I will keep informing WICB about my progress in the future with West Indies cricket. " WICB , on their part , said their squad for the series against Australia will be announced in due course. " The start of the Australia Test series is still two months away almost to the day. As soon as we have confirmation of a squad for the series , we will publicise in the usual manner , " a WICB official told cricket.com.au . West Indies take on England in the first of the three Tests on April 13th. The two-match Test series against Australia will commence on June 5th . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies )
