Commentator Richie Benaud Fighting Skin Cancer Commentator Richie Benaud Fighting Skin Cancer Former Australian captain Richie Benaud , 84 , made his illness public at the Nine Network 's launch for its Australian summer cricket coverage , saying he was receiving treatment for skin cancers on his forehead and the top of his head . Last updated on Monday , 10 November , 2014 10 : 44 IST Total Shares File photo of Richie Benaud . © AP Sydney : Legendary cricket commentator Richie Benaud revealed Monday he is battling skin cancer and is undergoing radiation therapy , but said he was coping well . The 84-year-old former Australian captain made his illness public at the Nine Network 's launch for its Australian summer cricket coverage , saying he was receiving treatment for skin cancers on his forehead and the top of his head. ( Also read : Australia win T20I series vs South Africa ) " I 'm coping with it very well -- the doctors are pleased , " he said. " I 'm going along slowly. The cancers need to be treated. " Benaud , a much-loved figure in Australian cricket , urged people to take precautions to protect themselves from the sun . " I recommend to everyone they wear protection on their heads , " he said. " Eighty-four-year olds do n't seem to mend as well as they used to . " When I was a kid , we never ever wore a cap. I wish I had. You live and learn as you go along , " he added . Benaud attended the Nine Network launch at the Sydney Cricket Ground with its broadcast team , including former cricketers Bill Lawry , Ian Chappell , Mark Nicholas , Brett Lee and Shane Warne . Benaud , who has worked in the commentary box since retiring from Test cricket in 1964 , has been out of action since suffering chest and shoulder injuries during a car crash in Sydney late last year . He said he was still recovering from the injuries which included two fractured vertebrae . It prevented him calling a single ball during the Ashes series against England last southern summer , and he has only just returned to work with the television network . However , Benaud confirmed he would make a return to commentate on Australia 's fourth Test against India at the Sydney Cricket Ground in his home town , starting on January 3 . " Progress is slow , " he said. " I 've been doing a lot of walking. We ( with wife Daphne ) are out every morning , doing 40-minute walks every morning and it 's showing beneficial effects. " Famed for his beige jackets and engaging commentary , Benaud made his broadcasting debut on BBC Radio in 1960 , moved across to BBC Television three years later , and became a full-time cricket journalist and commentator when his playing career ended . He hung up the microphone for British television following the 2005 Ashes series , and has been working for Nine since 1977 . Story first published on : Monday , 10 November 2014 09 : 33 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS Richard , OBE Benaud
