Saeed Ajmal named in all three squads for Bangladesh tour 2015/Apr/03 07 : 15 : 00 Text Size Saeed Ajmal 's rectified action will be the focus when Pakistan tour Bangladesh. © Getty Saeed Ajmal will soon make his international comeback as he has been named in all three squads for the tour of Bangladesh that begins on April 17. Pakistan 's newly-appointed chief selector Haroon Rashid also announced that Umar Akmal , following a dismal showing in the recently-concluded ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , has been left out of all three squads while opener Ahmed Shehzad has been named only in the T20 squad . Ajmal had undergone remedial work on his bowling action after it was ruled illegal in September 2014 and he was suspended , forcing him out of the World Cup. The 37-year-old had been key to Pakistan 's success in Tests , ODIs and T20 matches before his action was reported suspect during Pakistan 's tour of Sri Lanka in August last year . Left-arm quick Mohammad Irfan , who was injured during the world event , was not considered for selection. Junaid Khan , who missed the World Cup due to an injury , has been named in the Test and T20 squads while Mohammad Hafeez , who was also not part of the World Cup squad because of a calf injury , features in all three teams for the Bangladesh tour. Hafeez too has suffered problems with his action , which was ruled illegal in December , and faces a re-test on April 9 . Wahab Riaz and Sohail Khan , who were the pick of the Pakistan bowlers during the World Cup , made it to all three squads. The Pakistan Cricket Board ( PCB ) announced that veteran batsman Younis Khan was rested for the ODI leg of the tour while Nasir Jamshed , who made scores of 4 , 1 and 0 in the World Cup , found himself out of favour. Promising youngsters Sami Aslam , Babar Azam , Mukhtar Ahmed and Mohammad Rizwan were included in various squads for the first time . Pakistan will have three different captains for the Bangladesh tour. Misbah-ul-Haq , who retired from ODIs at the end of the World Cup , will lead the Test team while Shahid Afridi , who also bid farewell to ODI cricket , is the captain of the T20 side. Azhar Ali , who last played an ODI in January 2013 , was recently appointed skipper of the ODI team . Pakistan Test squad : Misbah-ul-Haq ( capt ) , Babar Azam , Mohammad Hafeez , Sami Aslam , Asad Shafiq , Azhar Ali , Younis Khan , Haris Sohail , Saeed Ajmal , Yasir Shah , Zulfiqar Babar , Sarfraz Ahmed ( wk ) , Wahab Riaz , Junaid Khan , Sohail Khan , Rahat Ali Pakistan ODI squad : Azhar Ali ( capt ) , Sarfraz Ahmed ( wk ) , Mohammad Hafeez , Asad Shafiq , Fawad Alam , Mohammad Rizwan , Haris Sohail , Sohaib Maqsood , Sami Aslam , Saeed Ajmal , Yasir Shah , Wahab Riaz , Rahat Ali , Ehsan Adil , Sohail Khan Pakistan T20 squad : Shahid Afridi ( capt ) , Ahmed Shehzad , Sarfraz Ahmed ( wk ) , Mohammad Hafeez , Mukhtar Ahmed , Sohaib Maqsood , Haris Sohail , Mohammad Rizwan , Saeed Ajmal , Sohail Tanvir , Saad Nasim , Wahab Riaz , Sohail Khan , Umar Gul , Junaid Khan © Cricbuzz
