England v New Zealand 2015 New Zealand bring in Guptill , Henry for England Tests 2015/Apr/03 23 : 31 : 00 Text Size Guptill has two test centuries to his name , including a highest score of 189. © Getty Following his record-breaking 237 against West Indies in the quarter-finals of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , Martin Guptill has earned a recall to New Zealand 's Test squad for the tour of England. Guptill , 30 , last played a Test in May 2013 against England , and since has been limited to playing only ODI and T20s . The New Zealand opener has played 31 Tests , in which he 's accumulated 1718 runs at at average of 29.62. Guptill could score just 1 and 3 in New Zealand 's 247-run defeat to England at Headingley and will be keen to resurrect his Test career . " This is a stable , established Test side but there will be opportunities for contenders , " New Zealand coach Mike Hesson said. " Martin is a classically styled batsman and there 's really no reason why he ca n't be as influential in the longer game as he is in the short. " New Zealand have also given a maiden Test call-up to pace bowler Matt Henry , while Adam Milne and uncapped allrounder Mitchell Santer have been named in the ODI and T20 squad. Henry , mainly a T20 attraction , recently replaced Milne in New Zealand 's World Cup squad after the latter was ruled out due to a heel injury and featured in the semi-final and final . Hesson admitted that even though Henry 's call-up was partly due to Jimmy Neesham 's unavailibility due to injury , the Canterbury bowler has what is takes to play the five-day format. " It 's another step up for Matt but we 've been impressed by the maturity and skill-set he 's already shown in the ODI format , " Hesson said . Santer , 23 , a Northern Districts left-hander averaged 36.22 with the bat during the most recent Ford Trophy season and took 11 wickets with his left-arm orthodox spin at an average of 36.09 and an economy rate of 4.98. " Mitchell brings to the table some all-round cover , " Hesson added. " We 're hoping he can take his opportunities and continue the excellent progress he 's been making over recent seasons. " The first Test will commence on May 21 at Lord 's , while Headingley will host the second Test from May 29. The two-Tests will be followed by a five-match ODI series , which gets underway on June 9 and the one-off Twenty20 match will take place at Old Trafford on June 23 . New Zealand 's Test squad : Brendon McCullum ( captain ) , Corey Anderson , Trent Boult , Doug Bracewell , Mark Craig , Martin Guptill , Matt Henry , Tom Latham , Luke Ronchi , Hamish Rutherford , Tim Southee , Ross Taylor , Neil Wagner , BJ Watling , Kane Williamson . New Zealand 's ODI and T20 squad : Brendon McCullum ( captain ) , Corey Anderson , Trent Boult , Grant Elliott , Martin Guptill , Matt Henry , Tom Latham , Mitchell McClenaghan , Nathan McCullum , Adam Milne , Luke Ronchi , Mitchell Santner , Tim Southee , Ross Taylor , Kane Williamson . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies )
