Bailey unsure if he will get ODI captaincy Bengaluru , 2015/Apr/04 22 : 55 : 00 Text Size Clarke 's ODI retirement throws open the ODI captaincy conundrum © Getty Australian batsman George Bailey is uncertain of being named captain of the ODI side for the newly crowned World Champions ' next assignemnt against England in September. The 32-year old , who skippered the side in the absence of the now-retired Michael Clarke featured in only of Australia 's successful 2015 World Cup campaign , against England , before making way for the returning Clarke . Clarke 's retirement from the 50-over format following the World Cup win has now opened the door for Bailey to take his place in the middle-order but the Tasmanian believes that he might not necessarily be given the captaincy role. Despite leading Australia for the most time in the last two years , Bailey faces stiff competition from the much younger , in-form batsman Steven Smith. Smith , who led the Test side in the Border-Gavaskar series in the absence of Clarke , has been earmarked as a future captain for all formats . " If I was n't in the team for this last six weeks then I ca n't imagine I would be skipper , " Bailey told The Hobart Mercury. " I would love to remain a part of the side and I certainly feel like I 've got a number of good years of cricket left in me , and hopefully a number of them are in Australian colours. " While Bailey remains in pole position to be handed the capataincy for now , but if recent Australian cricket history were to offer any indication , the 25-year old Steven Smith is likely to get the selectors ' backing for the top job. All of Australia 's recent captains - Steve Waugh , Ricky Ponting and Michael Clarke were handed captaincy at a relatively young age and enjoyed an extended run . Former cricketer Michael Hussey in an interview last week said that if the selectors were picking the captain with an eye on the next World Cup , England 2019 , then Smith would be ideally suited to get the job. " George Bailey has done a fantastic job over a fair period of time now , " Hussey told cricket.com.au. " You probably do n't have to look any further than that at the moment. I 'm sure it is something they 'll discuss , the long-term future of the ODI team. Perhaps it 's a chance to start grooming someone for the next World Cup who 's going to be the skipper in the next World Cup. George has done a fantastic job but if theyre looking longer term , a lot longer term , Steve Smith 's name might pop up. " Bailey , who has skippered in 29 of the 57 ODI matches he has played , has a winning percentage of 55. His ability to remain unfazed in pressure situations merited him the captaincy role in the IPL franchise Kings XI Punjab , where he will be captain once again in the new season starting on April 8 . © Cricbuzz
