IPL kicks off with glitzy opening after rain delay 2015/Apr/07 14 : 02 : 00 Text Size The eight skippers led by India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni signed the MCC Spirit of Cricket pledge to start IPL 8 formally. © BCCL Heavy rain failed to dampen the spirit of 'City of Joy ' as a dazzling Bollywood-style opening ceremony kick started the eighth edition of Indian Premier League ( IPL ) after a one and a half hour delay at the decked-up Salt Lake stadium . The event was a little subdued compared to the galas of the previous editions but the cine stars still managed to put up a show , enthralling the thousands of drenched fans who were glued to their seats . The cheer was loud for Virat Kohli , louder for Mahendra Singh Dhoni but loudest for their 'very own ' Gautam Gambhir . While Bollywood heartthrob Hrithik Roshan stole the show with his electrifying dance performance , leading lady Anushka Sharma brought on a lot of panache with her performance . The versatile Farhan Akhtar and Shahid Kapoor regaled the crowd , both performing to their respective numbers from movies such as Rock On and Kaminey . Shahid hit a ramp slightly and then slipped on the stage before recovering quickly . Of those from the glam world , Hrithik was the most sought-after as he gyrated to his hit numbers from Bang Bang and Dhoom 2 . The eight skippers led by India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni signed the MCC Spirit of Cricket pledge to start IPL 8 formally in front of Ravi Shastri before they posed for a formal group photo . Bollywood then took centrestage with Haider actor Shahid making an entry in a motorcycle to the tunes of local hero Bappi Lahiri . " Rain or shine the celebration will continue that 's how we love our cricket. Now we have a new season apart from monsoon , summer , winter and spring and that 's the season of IPL , " the anchor of the show , Saif Ali Khan , said in his opening address . The Omkara star called out the captains of the eight franchises as the likes of Shikhar Dhawan , JP Duminy and George Bailey walked onto the dais . But it was the trio of Dhoni , Kohli and Gambhir who received the biggest applause as firecrackers lit up the Kolkata sky . The ceremony began after an one hour and 30 minutes delay with a traditional Rabindra Sangeet rendition of 'Ananda Loke' . © PTI
