'Voice of cricket ' Richie Benaud dies aged 84 2015/Apr/09 18 : 17 : 00 Text Size Former Australian captain Richie Benaud , known as the " voice of cricket " to fans around the world , has died aged 84 , Channel Nine reports © AFP Former Australian captain Richie Benaud , known as the " voice of cricket " to fans around the world , has died aged 84. Benaud , one of Australia 's most influential cricketers , had been fighting skin cancer and died overnight in a Sydney hospice. He was the first player to score 2,000 Test runs and take 200 Test wickets. Australia never lost a series under the leg-spinning allrounder 's captaincy . David Gyngell , Nine Network chief executive , confirmed the news in a statement. " Richie Benaud 's passing has robbed us not only of a national treasure but a lovely man Richie earned the profound and lasting respect of everyone across the world of cricket and beyond , " he said. " Richie is a true legend not only to all the people who knew him , but to the many millions who did n't. Which speaks volumes. He 's been part of the Australian psyche . " We shall miss him dearly , but we 'll forever treasure his indelible memory and all the marvelous values for which he stood. Cricket is very much the richer for Richie Benaud 's lifelong engagement. And so are we all. Our deepest sympathies go to Daphne and Richie 's family. " A veteran on 63 Tests , Benaud anchored Channel Nine 's cricket coverage for decades and played a pivotal role in the formation of World Series Cricket in the 1970s. He became one of the world cricket 's most recognized and admired commentators . Benaud , whose career as a cricketer kicked off in 1952 , was born in Penrith outside Sydney. He went on to cut out a memorable Test career for himself not only as a wily leg-spin bowler and middle-order batsman , but also as one of cricket 's most successful captains. He finally hung up his boots in 1964. He took up commentary following his retirement and soon turned into an icon thanks to his succinct commentary style. It turned out to be fodder for imitators , cricket fans and aspiring commentators from across the world . Cricket Australia chairman , Wally Edwards spoke of Benaud 's ever-lasting impact on the game. " Our country has lost a national treasure , " he said. " After Don Bradman , there has been no Australian player more famous or more influential than Richie Benaud. Richie stood at the top of the game throughout his rich life , first as a record-breaking leg-spinner and captain , and then as cricket 's most famous broadcaster who became the iconic voice of our summer. He was an important influence in the formation of Kerry Packer 's World Series Cricket in 1977 , a climactic event at the time but one which has left a lasting , positive influence on the game . " Away from the camera he was a leader , mentor and positive influencer of an extraordinary number of cricketers. And despite his role as the treasured grandfather of the game , he remained deeply in touch with modern developments , embracing Twenty20 when others of older eras shunned it. His passing today marks a profound loss to our nation. Australian cricket and the game 's legions of fans extend deepest sympathies to Richie 's wife Daphne , brother John and the entire Benaud family at this sad time , " he said . Benaud was the mainstay in Australian cricket television commentary until a car accident forced him to halt his commentary duties. He suffered chest and shoulder injuries during a car crash in Sydney late last year. The injuries included two fractured vertebrae and it prevented him calling a single ball during the Ashes series. A much anticipated return to commentary was scuppered when Benaud revealed , in November last year , that he was suffering from skin cancer . However , Benaud gave his voice to a heart-rending tribute to Australian cricketer Phillip Hughes , who died during a match last November , which was screened before Australia 's Test series against India last December . RIP Richie Benaud
