India v Sri Lanka , 2nd ODI India captain , Virat Kohli chats with Sandeep Patil , chairman of selectors , ahead of the match . Sri Lanka skipper Angelo Mathews won the toss and decided to bat first . Ravindra Jadeja , was was rested for the previous game , was included in the Indian XI for the 2nd ODI . India skipper , Virat Kohli leads the team onto the field . Umesh Yadav trapped Kusal Perera in front in the first over to send him back on nought . Tillakaratne Dilshan took the attack to R Ashwin in the 10th over , hitting the off-spinner for four boundaries in a row . Sri Lanka lost a couple of quick wickets to leave Sri Lanka in a spot of bother . Angelo Mathews and Kumar Sangakkara put on a good stand to steady Sri Lanka . Kumar Sangakkara registered his 87th ODI fifty before falling to Umesh Yadav in the Batting PP . Sri Lanka lost three wickets in the batting PP to be in a lot of trouble . Axar Patel finished with fine bowling figures , as did R Ashwin . Angelo Mathews scored an unbeaten 92 to lift Sri Lanka to 274 . The Indian openers got off to a watchful start . Mahela Jayawardene took a sharp catch off a rebound from Kumar Sangakkara , resulting in the wicket of Ajinkya Rahane . Shikhar Dhawan came up with a steady knock to keep India on track . Ambati Rayudu gave Dhawan good support as they put India in a commanding position . Shikhar Dhawan registered his 10th ODi fifty . Ambati Rayudu was involved in a century stand with Shikhar Dhawan . Ambati Rayudu also got to fifty . Seekkuge Prasanna dismissed Shikhar Dhawan for 79 . Ambati Rayudu batted positively even after the departure of Shikhar Dhawan , keeping India on course . Virat Kohli batted well , helping Ambati Rayudu in building a partnership . Ambati Rayudu registered his maiden ODi ton to take India closer . Virat Kohli ( 49 ) fell after a 116-run stand with Ambati Rayudu . Seekkuge Prasanna managed to dismiss Suresh Raina . Ambati Rayudu remained till the end , scoring an unbeaten 121 to help India go 2-0 up . Photo Gallery
