NOR vs GLOUCS - Live India v Sri Lanka , 3rd ODI Umesh Yadav celebrates the wicket of Kumar Sangakkara during the 3rd One Day International , ODI , between India and Sri Lanka held at the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium , Hyderabad . Ambati Rayudu is greeted by the state 's Chief Minister before the game . Mahela Jayawardene gestures towards teammates after scoring a century . Virat Kohli and Angelo Mathews during the toss . Shikhar Dhawan acknowledges teammates after scoring a half century . Virat Kohli in action Virat Kohli looked in sublime touch and went on to score yet another fifty Virat Kohli pats teammate Shikhar Dhawan as the latter walks back after getting out . Shikhar Dhawan smiles at Nuwan Kulasekara after he was dismissed . Angelo Mathews celebrates as Ambati Rayudu gets run out . Umesh Yadav celebrates the wicket of Thisara Perera . Tillakaratne Dilshan in action. He was one of the very few batsmen to make an impact . Mahela Jayawardene and Tillakaratne Dilshan in action during their fine partnership . Mahela Jayawardene raises his bat after scoring a half century . Ajinkya Rahane looked fluent during his brief stay . Umesh Yadav celebrates the wicket of Kusal Perera . Akshar Patel celebrates the wicket of Chaturanga de Silva . Ambati Rayudu celebrates the wicket of Tillakaratne Dilshan . Mahela Jayawardene in action prior to getting to his hundred . Seekkuge Prasanna provided the innings with some impetus late in the day . Shikhar Dhawan started slowly but soon found his groove . Ambati Rayudu plays a shot through the leg-side. The right-hander was unfortunately run-out when he looked in good touch . Virat Kholi captain of India kisses his helmet while he celebrates his half century during the 3rd One Day International , ODI , between India and Sri Lanka held at the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium , Hyderabad , India on the 9th November 2014 Photo by : Pal Pillai/ Sportzpics/ BCCI Wriddhiman Saha of India and Suresh Raina of India walk back followed by the SriLankan team after India winning the 3rd One Day International , ODI , between India and Sri Lanka held at the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium , Hyderabad , India on the 9th November 2014 Photo by : Pal Pillai/ Sportzpics/ BCCI Photo Gallery
