India v Sri Lanka , 5th ODI Angelo Mathews won the toss and decided to bat first . Kedar Jadhav , who was making his debut , received his ODI cap from Sanjay Bangar . Tillakaratne Dilshan got Sri Lanka off to a positive start as he dealt in regular boundaries . Dhawal Kulkarni delivered the first breakthrough , dismissing debutant Niroshan Dickwella . Stuart Binny picked up the important wicket of Tillakaratne Dilshan , dismissing him for 35 . Dinesh Chandimal was struggling to get going before he fell to Axar Patel . Mahela Jayawardene batted in a steady manner as he tried to hold the innings together . Ravichandran Ashwin dismissed Mahela Jayawardene to leave Sri Lanka in a lot of trouble . Angelo Mathews put on a good stand with Lahiru Thirimanne to help Sri Lanka recover . Angelo Mathews registered a fine half-century . Lahiru Thirimanne also got past fifty and was involved in a century stand with Angelo Mathews . Ravichandran Ashwin ended the partnership by dismissing Lahiru Thirimanne . Angelo Mathews registered his maiden ODI ton to power Sri Lanka . Dhawal Kulkarni picked up two wickets in the final over . Angelo Mathews finished with an unbeaten 139 off 116 to help Sri Lanka to 286/8 . Ajinkya Rahane was bowled by Angelo Mathews . Rohit Sharma was also bowled by Angelo Mathews which left India in a spot of bother . Virat Kohli put on a good stand with Ambati Rayudu to steady India . Ambati Rayudu provided good support to Virat Kohli . The Lankan bowlers hardly made an impact as Virat Kohli crossed the half-century mark while raising a century stand with Ambati Rayudu . Ambati Rayudu too got past fifty to keep India on track in the chase . Virat Kohli and Ambati Rayudu put on 138 runs for the 3rd wicket before the latter was run-out . Virat Kohli sits dejected as the Lankans celebrate the wicket of Ambati Rayudu . Ajantha Mendis dismissed Robin Uthappa and Kedar Jadhav in quick succession . Virat Kohli registered his 21st ODI ton to keep India on course . Ajantha Mendis dismissed Stuart Binny and R Ashwin off consecutive deliveries . Axar Patel hung around with Virat Kohli to be involved in a crucial stand . Virat Kohli finished things off in style , hitting an unbeaten 139 to help India whitewash Sri Lanka 5-0 . Virat Kohli captain of India reacts after hitting the winning shot during the 5th One Day International , ODI , between India and Sri Lanka held at the JSCA International Stadium , Ranchi , India on the 16th November 2014 Photo by : Pal Pillai/ Sportzpics/ BCCI Virat Kohli captain of India reacts after hitting the winning shot during the 5th One Day International , ODI , between India and Sri Lanka held at the JSCA International Stadium , Ranchi , India on the 16th November 2014 Photo by : Pal Pillai/ Sportzpics/ BCCI Photo Gallery
