Australia v South Africa , 3rd ODI David Warner in action during his fine opening stand with Aaron Finch . Aaron Finch in action during his fine opening stand with David Warner David Warner celebrates and acknowledges the crowd after scoring a half century . Aaron Finch in action during his fine opening stand with David Warner David Warner in action during his fine opening stand with Aaron Finch . Aaron Finch ( L ) of Australia celebrates and acknowledges the crowd after scoring a half century . Farhaan Behardien celebrates with team mate AB de Villiers after taking the wicket of Shane Watson . Aaron Finch of Australia celebrates and acknowledges the crowd after scoring a century during game three of the One Day International Series between Australia and South Africa at Manuka Oval on November 19 , 2014 in Canberra , Australia . AB de Villiers of South Africa celebrates taking the wicket of Aaron Finch of Australia during game three of the One Day International Series between Australia and South Africa at Manuka Oval on November 19 , 2014 in Canberra , Australia . Steven Smith of Australia bats during game three of the One Day International Series between Australia and South Africa at Manuka Oval on November 19 , 2014 in Canberra , Australia . Faf du Plessis of South Africa dives to stop a six during game three of the One Day International Series between Australia and South Africa at Manuka Oval on November 19 , 2014 in Canberra , Australia . AB de Villiers of South Africa celebrates taking the wicket of Aaron Finch of Australia during game three of the One Day International Series between Australia and South Africa at Manuka Oval on November 19 , 2014 in Canberra , Australia . Quinton de Kock of South Africa is bowled on a free ball from Mitchell Starc of Australia during game three of the One Day International Series between Australia and South Africa at Manuka Oval on November 19 , 2014 in Canberra , Australia . Hashim Amla of South Africa bats during game three of the One Day International Series between Australia and South Africa at Manuka Oval on November 19 , 2014 in Canberra , Australia . Amla raises his bat after essaying a sublime a hundred against Australia . AB de Villiers showcased his wide array of strokes to keep South Africa in the hunt . Australia celebrate after taking the wicket of Dale Steyn . Photo Gallery
