NOR vs GLOUCS - Live Australia vs India , 2nd Test , Day 4 Mitchell Johnson celebrates dismissing Ajinkya Rahane during day four of the 2nd Test match between Australia and India at The Gabba on December 20 , 2014 in Brisbane , Australia . Mitchell Johnson celebrates dismissing Virat Kohli . Mitchell Johnson is congratulated by team mates after dismissing Ajinkya Rahane . Mitchell Johnson celebrates dismissing Virat Kohli . Josh Hazlewood celebrates with team mate David Warner after dismissing MS Dhoni . Ravichandran Ashwin walks off the field after being dismissed by Mitchell Starc . Nathan Lyon celebrates taking the important wicket of Shikhar Dhawan . Mitchell Starc celebrates with team mates after taking the wicket of Ravichandran Ashwin . David Warner dives as he attempts to take a catch on the boundary . David Warner is hit on the glove by a Umesh Yadav delivery . Mitchell Johnson celebrates taking the wicket of Umesh Yadav . Mitchell Johnson celebrates taking the wicket of Rohit Sharma . Ishant Sharma celebrates dismissing David Warner . David Warner of Australia walks off the field after being dismissed by Ishant Sharma of India during day four of the 2nd Test match between Australia and India at The Gabba on December 20 , 2014 in Brisbane , Australia . Mitchell Johnson and Mitchell Marsh of Australia celebrate victory during day four of the 2nd Test match between Australia and India at The Gabba on December 20 , 2014 in Brisbane , Australia . Chris Rogers of Australia celebrates a half century during day four of the 2nd Test match between Australia and India at The Gabba on December 20 , 2014 in Brisbane , Australia . Steve Smith of Australia bats during day four of the 2nd Test match between Australia and India at The Gabba on December 20 , 2014 in Brisbane , Australia . Mitchell Johnson and Mitchell Marsh of Australia celebrate winning on day four of the 2nd Test match between Australia and India at The Gabba on December 20 , 2014 in Brisbane , Australia . Australian fans show their support during day four of the 2nd Test match between Australia and India at The Gabba on December 20 , 2014 in Brisbane , Australia . Steve Smith of Australia plays a shot during day four of the 2nd Test match between Australia and India at The Gabba on December 20 , 2014 in Brisbane , Australia . Mitchell Johnson and Mitchell Marsh walk off the field after Australia 's victory . Photo Gallery
