Australia vs India , 3rd Test , Day 3 Murali Vijay walks out to bat on Day 3 of the third Test . Brad Haddin took splendid catch to send back Cheteshwar Pujara off the bowling of Ryan Harris in the first over of the day . Murali Vijay , who batted in a steady manner , was struck on the helmet by a Mitchell Johnson bouncer . Virat Kohli assisted Murali Vijay in building a partnership . Shane Watson ended the stand by dismissing Murali Vijay . Virat Kohli batted in a fluent manner to help India forward . Ajinkya Rahane got going with a flurry of boundaries . Ajinkya Rahane and Virat Kohli put on a good stand to keep India steady . Virat Kohli extended his good form by bringing up yet another fifty + score . Ajinkya Rahane reached fifty in the second session while the 4th wicket pair raised the century stand . Virat Kohli and Mitchell Johnson exchanged words at the end of an over after Kohli was struck by a throw from Johnson . Ajinkya Rahane went on to register his third Test ton . Virat Kohli jumped up in air after getting to his 9th Test hundred . Virat Kohli and Ajinkya Rahane were in a belligerent mood at the start of the final session as they took the attack to Mitchell Johnson . Ajinkya Rahane 's fine innings came to an end when he was out leg-before to Nathan Lyon . Ryan Harris of Australia celebrates after taking a caught and bowled to dismiss Ravichandran Ashwin of India during day three of the Third Test match between Australia and India at Melbourne Cricket Ground on December 28 , 2014 in Melbourne , Australia . MS Dhoni of India slips as he plays a shot as Joe Burns of Australia looks on during day three of the Third Test match between Australia and India at Melbourne Cricket Ground on December 28 , 2014 in Melbourne , Australia . Ryan Harris of Australia is congratulated by his team mates after dismissing MS Dhoni of India during day three of the Third Test match between Australia and India at Melbourne Cricket Ground on December 28 , 2014 in Melbourne , Australia . Photo Gallery
