NOR vs GLOUCS - Live Australia vs India , 4th Test , Day 3 Australian captain Steve Smith and the Australian team are welcomed by former Australian cricketer Glenn McGrath as they walk onto the field for 'Jane McGrath Day ' during Day 3 of the Sydney Test . Australia vs India , 4th Test , Day 3 Mitchell Starc tested KL Rahul with a quick spell , early on Day 3 . Rohit Sharma batted patiently before throwing it away for 53 . Rohit Sharma was bowled by Nathan Lyon for 53 . Nathan Lyon celebrates dismissing Rohit Sharma on Day 3 . Nathan Lyon bowled probing lengths on the third morning and was rewarded with the wicket of Rohit Sharma . Brad Haddin of Australia reacts after a Nathan Lyon delivery beat Virat Kohli . Lokesh Rahul scampered back to the crease after slipping mid-pitch. The throw from Warner went to the wrong end and the Indian opener survived . Australian captain Steve Smith drops a catch of Lokesh Rahul before lunch on Day 3 . Australian captain Steve Smith looks skyward towards spidercam after dropping a catch off Lokesh Rahul Lokesh Rahul celebrates scoring his maiden Test half century . Lokesh Rahul displayed compactness of technique on Day 3 . Ryan Harris bowled at over 145kmph in a short spell after lunch . Virat Kohli looked every bit the man-in-form , he is , in the post-lunch session . Lokesh Rahul celebrates scoring a century with captain Virat Kohli during Day 3 . Virat Kohli and Rahul completed a 100-run stand for the third wicket in the post-lunch session . Virat Kohli essayed shots all around the ground . Lokesh Rahul batted with composure to get to his century . Lokesh Rahul and Virat Kohli enjoyed a 141-run stand before the former was dismissed by Mitchell Starc . Rahul compiled a superb 110 before perishing on the pull shot. He top-edged the shot and was well held by the bowler himself . Virat Kohli started on a positive note after tea and soon raced into the nineties. On the other hand , Ajinkya Rahane took his time to settle . Australian Prime minister Tony Abbott was one amongst the attendees for the Pink day of the SCG Test . Virat Kohli continued his dream run on the Australian tour. He compiled his 10th Test hundred , 6th against Australia and 4th in this series . Shane Watson brought Australia back into the ascendancy. He trapped Ajinkya Rahane in front , although replays later suggested that the ball was slipping over the top of the stumps . Suresh Raina 's Test comeback ended in disaster. He was out first ball , nibbling Watson to the keeper. All of a sudden , India had slipped from 292/3 to 292/5 . Shane Watson took two wickets in an innings for the first time since November , 2011 Virat Kohli and Wrddhiman Saha steadied India 's nerves as they finished the day at 342/5 , still trailing by 230 runs. Kohli finished unconquered on 140 . Photo Gallery
