Australia vs India , Tri-series , Match 2 Rohit Sharma started positively for India . Mitchell Starc removed Shikhar Dhawan in the first over . Gurinder Sandhu celebrates his maiden ODI wicket with his teammates . Australian players celebrate the wicket of Virat Kohli . Rohit Sharma batted positively despite losing partners at the other end . In-form batsman , Virat Kohli was dismissed early by James Faulkner . Rohit Sharma played the pull shot with elan . Suresh Raina , coming off a pair in the final Test , batted assuredly in the company of Rohit Sharma . Shane Watson of Australia and Rohit Sharma of India exchanged words during India 's innings . Rohit Sharma acknowledges the crowd after completing his century . Rohit Sharma celebrates after scoring his third ODI hundred against Australia . Suresh Raina added 126 runs for the fourth wicket with Rohit Sharma . Indian fans at the MCG celebrate Rohit Sharma 's century . Mitchell Starc celebrates after dismissing Axar Patel for a duck . Rohit Sharma batted fluently to score 138 . Pat Cummins dropped Ravichandran Ashwin to deny Mitchell Starc , a seventh wicket . Mitchell Starc dismissed MS Dhoni to trigger a collapse . Mitchell Starc is congratulated by his teammates for picking his career best figures of 6 for 43 . Suresh Raina reacts after catching David Warner out . Aaron Finch batted solidly at the top of the order during Australia 's chase . David Warner batted positively before he was dismissed for 24 . Aaron Finch scored an 80 ball half-century to anchor Australia 's chase . Shane Watson displayed positive intent during his innings of 41 . Shane Watson was bowled by Axar Patel having made Axar Patel is congratulated by his teammates after dismissing Shane Watson . Virat Kohli gestures to the fans during the second ODI of the tri-series . Steven Smith completed 1000 runs in ODI cricket during his innings of 42 . Aaron Finch essayed a wide array of shots during his innings of 96 . James Faulkner celebrates as he hits the winning runs . James Faulkner once again donned the finisher hat to take Australia past the finishing line . Aaron Finch was dismissed four short of a deserved century . James Faulkner and Brad Haddin celebrate after hitting the winning runs . Photo Gallery
