ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 - The Unfortunates XI Robin Uthappa Good domestic form and an ideal back-up for MS Dhoni , Robin Uthappa would have fancied his chances to make it to the team of 15 when he was named in the preliminary squad. However , the Karnataka opening batsman was unfortunate to miss out , with the Indian selectors opting for Ambati Rayudu as the back-up keeper. With close to 500 runs in the ongoing Ranji Trophy , Uthappa is constantly reminding the selectors that they missed a trick or two . Craig Kieswetter Included in the 30-man probables list , Craig Kieswetter had a good chance of making it to the pruned squad of 15. However the wicketkeeper-batsman pulled out , owing to an eye injury that he suffered in July 2014. The injury , which Kieswetter sustained when a ball went through his helmet grill , is now threatening to bring a premature end to the career of the 27-year-old . Kevin Pietersen The England management decided that the best way forward after their Ashes debacle Down Under , was to leave out Kevin Pietersen from the scheme of things. While there are different versions as to what exactly happened , Pietersen continued to be ignored. The maverick cricketer has since been serving as a mercenary in cricket leagues around the world and has been in excellent form in the ongoing Big Bash League . Yuvraj Singh India 's hero of the 2011 World Cup , Yuvraj Singh failed to even make it to the squad of 30. He got to play only six matches in 2014 , all of which were during the World T20. His form in that tournament , as well as the IPL , was decent , if not great. However , the selectors felt new blood was the right way forward. After being ignored , the left-handed allrounder has been in terrific form in the Ranji Trophy , scoring three hundreds in as many matches and averaging over 70 . Dwayne Bravo Payment dispute has been a long-standing problem in West Indies cricket and Dwayne Bravo was the latest captain from the Caribbean team to feel the heat from WICB. The board felt Bravo was the main reason behind West Indies abruptly pulling out of the Indian tour and replaced him with Jason Holder as skipper for the World Cup . Kieron Pollard His form may not have been all that impressive in 2014 and he missed a few matches because of injuries. However , a game-changer such as Kieron Pollard would have featured in most World Cup squads. The West Indian selectors though decided not to include him as the allrounder came out in support of his team-mate Dwayne Bravo when the contract fiasco happened during the tour of India . James Neesham The New Zealand selectors surprisingly decided to leave out allrounder Jimmy Neesham and decided to strengthen their batting unit instead by including Grant Elliot and Tom Latham. Neesham managed two hundreds and three fifties in 2014 , but they all came in Test matches while his ODI numbers were n't all that impressive . Ryan McLaren After the retirement of Jacques Kallis , South Africa search for a quality allrounder continues. Although Kallis ' shoes are too big to fill for Ryan McLaren , South Africa 's decision not to include a single pace-bowling allrounder in the 15-man squad is surprising. McLaren was South Africa 's preferred option for the allrounder 's slot in 2014 as he featured in 14 matches. However , they decided against including him for the mega event . Umar Gul One of Pakistan 's most experienced pacers , Umar Gul was unfortunate to miss out as he failed to recover completely from a knee injury . Saeed Ajmal In all likelihood , Saeed Ajmal would have been the tormentor-in-chief during the 2015 World Cup and the main weapon in Pakistan 's arsenal , had it not been for a faulty action. While the off-spinner claimed to have cleared a private bowling action test recently , his chances of playing in the World Cup are slim , although all teams do have until February 7 to finalize the squads . Sunil Narine Despite being picked in the 15-man West Indies squad , Sunil Narine , whose action was reported in a CLT20 game , withdrew from the World Cup in order to take more time to work on his remodelled action. With his withdrawal , the tournament lost both the No. 1 ( Saeed Ajmal ) and the No. 2 ( Narine ) bowlers in ICC ODI rankings . Nathan Lyon - 12th man The way Nathan Lyon troubled the Indian batsmen during the four-Test series , he had a good chance of making it to the final squad for the World Cup. However , the Australian selectors chose to include Xavier Doherty instead . Honourable mentions Murali Vijay , Ryan Harris and Sohail Tanvir Photo Gallery
