NOR vs GLOUCS - Live Dhoni leads team practice at Adelaide 's St Peter 's College ground The pressure on MS Dhoni is one like never before and with India struggling to perform in Australia , they will require their skipper to lead from the front. ( Image courtesy : G Rajaraman ) India 's bowling has come under the firing line as of late and Umesh Yadav will need to take his game a step further if India are to last the distance. Dhawal Kulkarni though , has been reserved as a back-up for Bhuvneshwar Kumar. ( Image courtesy : G Rajaraman ) A bit of pondering maybe ? Despite a half-century against Australia in the warm-up , Shikhar Dhawan 's overall form has been patchy , whereas Stuart Binny remains uncertain to feature in the Playing XI. ( Image courtesy : G Rajaraman ) Spread across 32 hectares , the ground offered a lovely and inspirational stage for the Indians to resume training after two warm-up games against Australia and Afghanistan. ( Image courtesy : G Rajaraman ) A prime reason for India 's middle-order woes has been Suresh Raina 's lack of runs. Perhaps middling the ball in such a scenic environment can help him regain confidence. ( Image courtesy : G Rajaraman ) " He instills a lot of confidence " , were Virat Kohli 's exact words on Shastri a few months ago. So spotting the two of them talking comes as no surprise considering Kohli 's poor run in the recently-concluded tri-series. ( Image courtesy : G Rajaraman ) An apple a day keeps the doctor away. After the ruling out of Ishant Sharma , India definitely wo n't like to suffer further casualties. A bit of precaution never hurts. ( Image courtesy : G Rajaraman ) Head coach Duncan Fletcher and Team Director Ravi Shastri indulge in some introspection. India 's performance in the World Cup , by all means , will have an affect on the future of these two men. ( Image courtesy : G Rajaraman ) Now that he 's become a father , the broad smile on Dhoni 's face was very much visible while he prepared to have a go in the nets. ( Image courtesy : G Rajaraman ) Photo Gallery
