NOR vs GLOUCS - Live India v Pakistan , Pool B , Match 4 India 's 76-run victory ensured India kept their impeccable record against Pakistan in World Cups intact , and helped them begin their title defence on a winning note . Another World Cup and another century in the opening game for Virat Kohli. And another hundred at Adelaide. Kohli later said he would like to wrap the ground up and take it back home with him . Mohammed Shami bowled with spark and finished with figures of 4 for 35 , including the wicket of Misbah-ul-Haq . Misbah-ul-Haq waged a lone battle for Pakistan , scoring 76 from 84 balls but kept losing partners before he was the ninth wicket to fall . Virat Kohli took a splendid catch to get rid of Shahid Afridi , and celebrated by doing an Afridi himself . Mohammed Shami gave India the early breakthrough when Younis Khan gloved him to wicketkeeper MS Dhoni for 6 in the fourth over . Promoted to open the innings , Younis Khan lasted only 10 balls before he was removed with Pakistan losing their first wicket on 11 for 1 . Haris Sohail kept Pakistan 's required run rate in check with some fluent strokeplay . Ahmed Shehzad was slow but steadied Pakistan with some fierce blows off the Indian pacers . Like Wahab Riaz in 2011 , Sohail Khan 's maiden appearance against India in a World Cup resulted in a five-wicket haul that limited India to 300 for 7 . MS Dhoni began impressively but his wicket meant India could n't step on the gas in the last five overs of the innings . Suresh Raina used the long handle to great effect during his 110-run stand with Virat Kohli. He scored 74 from just 56 balls . Dhawan was eventually run out by a direct hit from Misbah-ul-Haq . The threat posed by Mohammad Irfan was nullified after he was warned twice for stepping onto the danger area on the pitch. He could have been banned from bowling anymore if he was called for bowling the first beamer to Kohli . Virat Kohli shook off his rusty form and struck a timely half-century , his 34th overall . Indian fans were bent on reminding their arch-rivals of their immaculate World Cup record . Shahid Afridi expresses his frustration as Shikhar Dhawan and Virat Kohli settle in for a partnership . While the Indians focussed all their energies on countering the height of Mohammad Irfan , it was Sohail Khan who struck with the ball for Pakistan , inducing a false shot from Rohit Sharma on 15 . A packed house greeted arch-rivals India and Pakistan at the Adelaide Oval . Shikhar Dhawan celebrates his half-century during his 129-run partnership with Kohli . Rohit Sharma and Shikhar Dhawan began on a cautious note for India after MS Dhoni won the toss and opted to bat at the Adelaide Oval . Shikhar Dhawan regained his touch during his 76-ball 73 , including seven fours and a six . Photo Gallery
