NOR vs GLOUCS - Live Sri Lanka vs Bangladesh , 18th Match , Pool A Lahiru Thirimanne had an uneasy start , tested by Mashrafe Mortaza 's probing line and length. After surviving a dropped chance in the first over , he cracked a couple of boundaries to settle the nerves . Tillakaratne Dilshan got Sri Lanka off the blocks in the eighth over , scoring two boundaries off Taskin Ahmed . Dilshan and Thirimanne made most of Bangladesh ' sloppy fielding. Both batsmen notched up their respective half-centuries and and brought up the 100-run stand for the opening wicket . Dilshan scored his 21st ODI century and remained not out on 161 , bettering his previous best of 160 against India at Rajkot in 2009 . Rubel Hossain got rid of Thirimanne for 52. That , however , turned out to be the only success Bangladesh had the entire innings . Sangakkara and Dilshan recorded the highest second-wicket partnership for Sri Lanka in World Cup history. They took 115 runs off the final ten overs and lifted Sri Lanka to 332 for 1 . Kumar Sangakkara celebrated his 400th ODI by registering his 22nd century. He and Dilshan took the skin off Bangladesh bowlers and made them run to all corners of the MCG . Suranga Lakmal and Lasith Malinga gave Sri Lanka the perfect start with the ball as Bangladesh were reduced to 100 for five in the 21st over . Dilshan got the important wicket of Shakib Al Hasan for 46. Shakib and Mushfiqur Rahim and piled on 64 runs for the sixth wicket , and once that partnership ended , Sri Lanka picked up the bones . Lasith Malinga followed his 3 for 41 against Afghanistan with figures of 3 for 35 here at the MCG. He removed Tamim Iqbal second ball of the innings to prevent Bangladesh from getting off to a decent start . Anamul Haque had scored 29 and put on 40 runs with Soumya Sarkar for the second wicket. However , he was unfortunate to be run out to a direct hit from Angelo Mathews . Shakib Al Hasan batted with intent for his 46. His partnership with Mushfiqur Rahim gave Bangladesh something to cheer for in the middle overs . Photo Gallery
