NOR vs GLOUCS - Live A tour of the New Zealand cricket museum Bert Sutcliffe was one of the first great New Zealand cricketers when the country stepped into the Test arena. He symbolised guts and determination and one notable instance is during the Test against South Africa in 1953. Sutcliffe was hit on the head by a bouncer by Neil Adcock and he retired to the hospital. He came back with his head bandaged and smashed a wonderful 80. At the other end , giving him company was Bob Blair , who was coping up with a tragedy as his fiancee was killed in the Tangiwai rail disaster. ( Credits - Jamie Alter ) In this particular section of the Cricket Museum , the World Cup jerseys of the team are displayed. New Zealand had the light grey jersey in 1996. ( Credits - Jamie Alter ) This particular section highlights all the great achievements of New Zealand cricket. The 2000 Champions Trophy is the only ICC silverware that the team has won. ( Credits - Jamie Alter ) This cabinet holds collectors cards , cricket magazines , mugs , beer cans , one of Chris Martin 's white headbands and a Demon Duck caller as endorsed by Danny Morrison. ( Credits - Jamie Alter ) In this picture , New Zealand 's best-ever XI. In batting order : Glenn Turner , Stewie Dempster , Bert Sutcliffe , Martin Crowe , John Reid , Martin Donnelly , Chris Cairns , Richard Hadlee , Ian Smith , Daniel Vettori and John Cowie. ( Credits - Jamie Alter ) He was the first beard to be feared in cricket. WG Grace was the first colossus in cricket and the Museum has paid a fitting tribute to him. ( Credits - Jamie Alter ) This cabinet houses rare pieces of cricketing lore. Here is a photo of the Addington bat of 1973 , the third-oldest in the world , and one of Dennis Lillee 's aluminium bats. ( Credits - Jamie Alter ) The New Zealand Cricket Museum is located in the Old Grandstand of the Basin Reserve. ( Credits - Jamie Alter ) This picture talks about the origins of cricket. It mentions the rules and specifications in that era. ( credits - Jamie Alter ) Two of New Zealand 's greatest Test innings have come in the Basin Reserve. Martin Crowe was agonisingly dismissed for 299 against Sri Lanka in 1991 and New Zealand 's wait for a triple centurion continued. However , in February 2014 , Brendon McCullum become the first New Zealand player to score a triple century when he achieve the land-mark against India. ( Credits - Jamie Alter ) A photo of a Fijian team that made their first visit to the Basin Reserve in 1895. ( Credits - Jamie Alter ) Photo Gallery
