NOR vs GLOUCS - Live Australia vs Sri Lanka , 32nd match , Pool A Australia won the toss and chose to bat in Sydney but it was Sri Lanka who struck first. Lasith Malinga deceived David Warner with a slower delivery and the batsman tamely chipped a catch to cover to depart for 9 . Aaron Finch , who started off the tournament with a magnificent century against England , has struggled for form since then. He walked down the track to Seekkuge Prasanna and was stumped down the leg side for 20. Prasanna , who was flown in as a replacement for Rangana Herath , had struck in his first over and Sri Lanka had gotten off to a great start . However , Australia were rescued by Steven Smith as he continued his rich vein of form. Following his 95 against Afghanistan in Perth , Smith carted the Sri Lankan bowlers to all parts to notch up his 11th ODI fifty . Michael Clarke has been in the news this summer for his hamstring troubles. He got a hit against New Zealand but did not bat against Afghanistan. However , he got back into the groove at his favorite venue and he notched up his 57th ODI fifty. It was a welcome return to form for Clarke . The partnership between Clarke and Smith was worth 134 runs and this stand helped Australia establish a base for a huge total . The partnership between Clarke and Smith allowed Glenn Maxwell the license to dismantle the Sri Lankan bowling. Maxwell took the Sri Lankan bowling to the cleaners and he notched up his first ODI century off 51 balls. This was the second-fastest century in World Cups and it was the fastest century by an Australian batsman in ODIs . There was plenty of speculation regarding Shane Watson 's ODI career after he was dropped for the game against Afghanistan in Perth. However , he answered his critics in great style by blasting a fifty off just 30 balls. It was his 32nd ODI fifty and it gave Australia a wonderful boost towards the slog overs . Maxwell and Watson shared a 160-run partnership of just 82 balls and the earlier 134-run stand between Smith and Clarke helped Australia reach 376/9 . Chasing 377 , Sri Lanka were jolted immediately when Mitchell Johnson sent back Lahiru Thirimanne for 1 with a bouncer. However , Kumar Sangakkara and Tillakaratne Dilshan counterattacked brilliantly to set up the chase nicely . Dilshan , in particular , was at his aggressive best. The highlight of his knock was when he smashed Johnson for six consecutive boundaries in one over. This was the first time this feat was achieved in a World Cup and he notched up his 43rd ODI fifty . At the other end , Kumar Sangakkara was the perfect foil for Dilshan as the partnership put Sri Lanka on the right track. Sangakkara , who had scored two consecutive centuries before this match , continued his sublime form by slamming his 94th ODI fifty . The 130-run partnership was putting pressure on Australia but James Faulkner sent back Dilshan for 62 off 60 balls. Dilshan 's wicket resulted in a loss of momentum for Sri Lanka and Australia maintained a tight check on the scoring rate . Michael Clarke ran Mahela Jayawardene out with a direct hit . Dinesh Chandimal scored a 22-ball 50 before getting retired hurt . Shane Watson celebrates after dismissing Angelo Mathews . Dinesh Chandimal was forced to retire hurt after injuring his hamstring . Australia celebrate after completing a 64-run win over Sri Lanka . Photo Gallery
