NOR vs GLOUCS - Live India vs Ireland , 34th match , Pool B Ireland won the toss and chose to bat first on a flat pitch in Hamilton. Paul Stirling and William Porterfield started off positively. The opening partnership yielded 89 and it had given Ireland a perfect platform. The 89-run opening stand was the highest India had conceded in this tournament so far . However , R Ashwin struck in his third over when he removed Paul Stirling for 42. The bowler deceived the batsman in flight and Stirling tamely lofted it to long-off . India 's spinners pegged the scoring rate back as they bowled accurately. Following the dismissal of Stirling , Suresh Raina sent back Ed Joyce for 2 with a delivery that skidded through and Joyce missed the cut . William Porterfield batted confidently and he scored his 11th ODI fifty. He mixed caution and aggression as he looked to negate the threat of the spinners . Porterfield looked good for a big score but Mohit Sharma sent him back in his second spell. Mohit deceived the Ireland skipper with a back of the hand slower delivery and Porterfield looked to drag it to the leg side but got a leading edge and the catch was taken at mid-off . Niall O'Brien played with tremendous application and he notched up his 14th ODI fifty. His 61-run partnership with Andrew Balbirnie gave Ireland tremendous momentum in the middle overs and they accelerated in the batting Powerplay , scoring 41 runs for the loss of two wickets . However , Andrew Balbirnie departed just before the batting Powerplay and Ireland lost momentum. They lost six wickets for 32 runs as the Indian bowlers put on a wonderful display in the slog overs , an area that has been a concern in the past . Alex Cusack and John Mooney put on a 21-run stand for the final wicket but Ireland were bowled out for 259 in the 49th over. India bowled out an opposition for the fifth time in a row. It is a feat that they have achieved for the first time ever in ODIs . India 's bowling performance at the death gave them plenty of momentum heading into the chase. Shikhar Dhawan and Rohit Sharma tore into the Irish bowling as they made rapid progress. Dhawan was given a life twice , once by John Mooney off his own bowling and the other by Paul Stirling who failed to hold on to the catch at point . Rohit Sharma stroked his 25th ODI fifty as India were making a mockery of the target. In the process , he crossed 4000 ODI runs , becoming the 14th Indian batsman to go past the landmark . Dhawan and Rohit continued to plunder the Irish bowling and the partnership went past 150. India were coasting towards the target. However , Rohit perished for 64 as he tried to run Stuart Thompson down to third man but the 174-run opening stand had put India firmly in front . Dhawan carried on and notched up his eighth ODI century. It was his second century in this edition of the World Cup. He has turned his form around spectacularly after undergoing a rough patch before the tournament . Dhawan departed for 100 as he miscued a lofted shot to cover and William Porterfield ran back to take a good catch. It was Thompson 's second wicket and Ireland had something to smile . Virat Kohli and Ajinkya Rahane ensured that there were no further alarm bells and they put on a 70-run partnership to get India over the line by eight wickets with 13.1 overs to spare . This was India 's fifth consecutive win in this edition and it was the ninth successive win for MS Dhoni in World Cups , the most by an Indian captain . Photo Gallery
