NOR vs GLOUCS - Live World Cup swansong for ODI greats If Pakistan 's quarter-final against Australia at the Adelaide Oval turns out to be their last game in the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup , it will also bring curtains to the career of Shahid Afridi , who has already expressed his desire to quit international cricket after the quadrennial event. Afridi , who has played 397 ODIs so far , can make it to the 400-mark only if Pakistan reach the final of the tournament. Afridi has n't had a great World Cup by his own standards , failing to pick up a single wicket which has kept him stranded on 395 ODI scalps to go along with his 8,000-plus runs . A troublesome back and recurring hamstring niggles had threatened to jeopardise Michael Clarke 's chances of appearing in the World Cup at his home , but he recovered in time and has batted with his customary silken touch. His injuries , however , have taken such a toll on his body that Clarke may decide to give up the 50-over format of the game in order to prolong his Test career. At 33 , Clarke still has many years left in him but he may not be able to continue playing all formats owing to his ailing back . Nearing 41 , Pakistan captain Misbah-ul-Haq is younger than head coach Waqar Younis by only two years and the 2015 World Cup would be his last assignment not only as a leader but as a player as well. A late bloomer in international cricket , Misbah has made the most of his opportunities throughout his career and has led his team admirably in this competition so far. He would , however , like to sign off with an ODI hundred which has eluded him for 161 games . He may not be figuring in the current XI but Younis Khan has been a constant in Pakistani sides over the last decade. The 37-year-old is one of three Pakistan greats who are likely to make their last bow in ODI cricket with the 2015 World Cup , but Younis remains one of the most polarising figures as his style of play has been criticised quite often . Rid of the burden of captaincy and liberated after announcing that the 2015 World Cup would be his last ODI assignment , 37-year-old Kumar Sangakkara has rolled back the years with his sublime strokeplay during the group stages , scoring a record four consecutive ODI centuries. But after coming so close four years ago , Sangakkara would be hoping to finish on the right side of the results when the final is played on March 29 . Having already announced his retirement from Test cricket during the tour of Australia , India captain MS Dhoni may also decide to call it quits after the 2015 World Cup. He has been one of the best limited-overs players of all time , having led India to all ICC trophies and is at the precipice of defending the title India won in 2011. The constant travelling and load of international cricket may force him to walk away from ODI cricket too , as it will allow him to focus on his IPL engagements and the forthcoming T20 WC in 2016 . A sublime century in the 2011 World Cup final went in vain , but Mahela Jayawardene will aim to reverse the results this time around as the 2015 edition will be the swansong for another Sri Lankan legend. Along with Sangakkara , Jayawardene has been one of the bulwarks of Sri Lanka 's middle order for over a decade , but the silken touch of his blade will be silenced in Australia. Jayawardene and Sangakkara led Sri Lanka to the World T20 title last year after narrowly missing out in the previous edition. Can they repeat their heroics in 2015 ? The coolest cricketer in the world has blown hot and cold in the 2015 World Cup , and a growing list of injuries to go with being on the wrong side of the 30s may mean that this will be the last we see of Chris Gayle in ODI cricket. His decision to not renew his central contract has already put his Test career on hold , and his success in T20 cricket has led to waning interest in the 50-over game. Gayle , however , did play one last hand during the World Cup by smashing the first double-hundred in the competition. There may be more fireworks to come yet before he signs off . Photo Gallery
