NOR vs GLOUCS - Live Determined India sweat it out ahead of crunch tie Mohammed Shami , with 17 wickets from six matches , will spearhead India 's bowling attack against a destructive Australian batting order. He was n't in the best of forms against them in the Test and ODI series , but has since , turned a new leaf and become a difficult bowler to get away with . Shikhar Dhawan has had a decent World Cup with two centuries and a fifty. However , he will be in for a stiffer challenge come Thursday at the SCG. Here , the Indian opener is seen getting a hang of things on a surface that is predicted to be on the flatter side . Mohit Sharma has filled in the role of India 's third seam bowler perfectly well and will remain a vital cog if India are to trump Australia 's mighty batting line-up. Nothing works better than bowling to one of the better batsmen in the nets ( in this case , Dhawan ) in order to get your act right . Bhuvneshwar Kumar has played just one game in the tournament so far and is expected to not feature in the Playing XI unless one of the bowlers get injured. However , he is always handy in the nets for giving the batsmen a hitout . A big knock is due from India 's batting sensation Virat Kohli and he will be itching to have a go against Australia in the crunch semi-final tie. After the century against Pakistan , Kohli has had starts in almost all matches but has n't really converted them into a substantial score . India 's top-order backbone , Shikhar Dhawan , Kohli and Ajinkya Rahane know the importance of a semi-final and one big knock from either of them can set the game in India 's balance . Virat Kohli did n't shy away from throwing himself around in the ground and grabbing a few low catches during India 's practice. India 's ground fielding has been nothing short of phenomenal in the World Cup. The fielders have been electric , especially inside the 30-yard-circle . ICC pitch consultant Andy Atkinson ( middle ) flew to SCG to have a word with Tom Parker ( right ) , the curator. The officials are trying to ensure the track is not two-paced for the semi-final . Ranjan Madugalle , who will serve as Match Referee for the India-Australia clash is seen posing with pitch curator Tom Parker. Kumar Dharamasena ( behind ) is probably trying his bit to photobomb the picture . Shihar Dhawan in conversation with Ravi Shastri. If you are to analyze their respective batting styles , you might find nothing in common. But the amount of influence India 's team director has on the players is immense . Photo Gallery
