NOR vs GLOUCS - Live Best fan images of ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Afghanistan embarked on their maiden World Cup journey and the country 's fans ensured that there was adequate support . The performance of the Afghanistan team gave its fans mixed feelings . The support for the Bangladesh tigers came in thousands as they made it to the knock-outs for the first time . The World Cup was a good occasions for the Bangladesh fans to try different attires and appearances . The Barmy Army , as usual , was there to support the England team . Despite the Eoin Morgan side 's dismal performance , fans still came out , hoping for the best from the England team . The Scotts too came out in support of their team . The fans from Scotland added to the colour . The rainbow colours were there to back the South African team in their World Cup campaign . Be it war paints or the colours of the nation , fans sported them with pride . Ireland 's fans are a friendly lot and they added to to the festive atmosphere in the World Cup . While Ireland 's exciting World Cup journey ended at the group stage , they and the fans left with their heads held high . Zimbabwe supporters turned out in big numbers too . The presence of Zimbabwe fans added to the flavour . There was some rallying round the West Indies as well . Fans from different Caribbean nations had one thing in common - the West Indies banner . Pakistan fans , just like their team , are a mercurial lot . The stadiums were painted in green whenever Pakistan took the field . Sri Lanka is always about colour and flavour. There was a lot of that during the World Cup . Whenever the Lankans are playing , it always seems like a carnival . The World Cup returned to the country after 23 years and New Zealand fans were ready for it . The Blacks Caps were on a high , not losing a single game at home , much to the delight of the supporters . The sea of blue followed India wherever they went and they outnumbered even the home-team fans . Be it Adelaide , Melbourne , Perth , Hamilton , Auckland or Sydney , the Indians fans made MS Dhoni 's side feel at home . The Australian fans too were a colourful lot . Australian fans made up most of the record 93,000 in attendance during the World Cup final and they could not have asked for a better result . Photo Gallery
