Australia Eye No. 1 ODI Ranking With Victory in 5th ODI vs South Africa Australia Eye No. 1 ODI Ranking With Victory in 5th ODI vs South Africa Having sealed the series 3-1 on Friday , Australia have the added motivation of usurping India 's ODI top spot if they win the fifth and final ODI in Sydney on Sunday . Last updated on Saturday , 22 November , 2014 09 : 48 IST Total Shares Australian batsmen celebrate after sealing the five-match series 3-1 vs South Africa on Friday . © AFP Sydney : Australia may have already clinched the series against South Africa but they have the incentive of top spot on the world one-day rankings in Sunday 's fifth ODI in Sydney . The Australians reeled in South Africa 's 267 for eight with a thrilling century from Steve Smith to claim a three-wicket win over the Proteas with an over to spare in Melbourne on Friday to take an unassailable 3-1 lead in the five-game series . While Australia have wrapped up the series , Smith said the home side wo n't be short of motivation in Sydney , where another win will ensure they reclaim No.1 spot from World Cup champions India on the International Cricket Council 's ODI rankings . " It adds a lot , " Smith told reporters after Friday 's win . " We pride ourselves on that. We try to get to No.1 in every form of the game . " To win in Sydney would be great and to take that No.1 mantle back would be outstanding. " Smith added that Australia 's one-day form augurs well for the World Cup in Australia and New Zealand in February , especially given the quality of the opposition . " South Africa are a very good line-up , " he said . " To play the way we have and beat them 3-1 , it 's been very satisfying for us . " It will be perfect to finish it off with a 4-1 victory and take back that No.1 spot . " It 's going to be nice playing the World Cup in our own backyard... hopefully , that ( form ) continues going into the World Cup. " South African coach Russell Domingo said taking Smith 's wicket would be key to his side finishing their limited-overs tour of Australia with a win . " He 's obviously a big player for Australia at the moment and we 've got to make sure our plans are in place when we play against him , " Domingo said . Proteas captain AB de Villiers looked in pain in the final stages of Australia 's innings on Friday , constantly feeling his ribs , but Domingo is hopeful he will play in Sunday 's final ODI . " He just fell badly on his rib and I think he took a blow there in one of the games earlier in the series , " Domingo said . " Maybe just a bit of bad bruising. I think he should be ok ( for Sunday ) . " Domingo denied his side 's first one-day loss to Australia in seven ODIs at the Melbourne Cricket Ground was a World Cup setback and said Sunday would be a chance for his players to nail down a spot in the squad for that tournament . " Sunday is another chance to see what the right group is ... we 're pretty close to finalising ( a squad ) , " he said . " It 's a great reminder of how much work still lies ahead before we can seriously challenge for the World Cup in three months ' time. " Story first published on : Saturday , 22 November 2014 08 : 42 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
