Graphs That is all from us here. The T20 Cricket League is starting shortly with the qualifiers being played on 09th October. Bye Bye ! All the West Indies players assemble on the stage and hold aloft the 2012 T20 Cup. The champagne starts to flow and Russell is waving the West Indies cricket flag wildly. In the midst of the fireworks , a true Calypso style celebration is going on. This is truly a memorable moment. WEST INDIES : T20 CUP CHAMPIONS. Gayle is continuing his disco dancing. He pauses and the team embark on a lap of honor at the ground . Sammy : " We have the never-say-die attitude and we showed it in this tournament. The win means a lot to the Caribbean. I dedicate this win to an ardent supporter , Peter Matthias , who has been with us for tough times. The support from the Sri Lankan people has been fantastic. We are going to live in this moment forever. The team has undergone a lot in the last decade. The aim of this team was one people , one team and one goal. Every player in the team chipped in and the never-say-die attitude showed. Since Marlon Samuels ' comeback , he has been phenomenal. It is a big plus to have Chris Gayle. He is enjoying his game and we have a lot of respect for him. I never worry about the critics. I lead my life on my own terms. When I go out on the field , I play well for this jersey. The people from Jamaica to Guyana must be celebrating. This means a lot to the people. This victory will hopefully be a step in the right direction. We will not say we are back but we hope to continue with this team spirit. " Watson : " For the first four matches , I am glad that I performed well. West Indies were too good for us in the semi-finals. They deserved to win the finals. It is unfortunate that Sri Lanka could not win. I hope to be fit for a period of time and it has helped me in getting momentum. I will never compare myself with Kallis. He is the ultimate all-rounder and I just hope that I perform well. Warner and I hope to fire in big games and it is a privilege to bat with him. We enjoyed the tournament and the Sri Lankans put on a great tournament. " Shane Watson is the MoS for his fine all-round skills . Samuels : " Two years of hard work and I have had a wonderful year. I dedicate this win to the Caribbean and to the people of Jamaica. The wicket was a bit slow but I knew that if I hung in there , I could make it. I decided to attack Malinga and it paid off. It is a team effort and we are working well as a team. For the future , I would love to see West Indies on top of Test cricket. The yellow scarf is a sign of good luck. I 've promised my son five hundreds before the end of the year and I am on the right road. " Marlon Samuels is the MoM for his brilliant 78 off 56 deliveries . Mahela Jayawardene : " The first 10 overs were great. Couple of fielding lapses and 3-4 bad overs took the game away from us. The West Indies team played well and I would like to say sorry to the crowd. West Indies came after us and Marlon Samuels played a great knock. I backed my No. 1 bowler ( Malinga ) but Samuels batted well against him. The drops were falling and we lost momentum during the drizzle. We had to play to win the game and not play according to D/L. West Indies have a solid bowling front. We have to desperately try and get over the final hurdle. It is disappointing as we did not turn up and perform. The team performed really well and we handled certain situations very well. It has been a fantastic tournament. The fans were absolutely amazing. " When the SL players were walking to collect their medallions , Lasith Malinga was booed . This is the last game for umpire Simon Taufel. One of the all-time great umpires walks into the sunset. He will be sorely missed . The reactions of each of the West Indies players sums up the aspirations that have been bottled up for the last 17 years. The fans back home will be celebrating in true Calypso style. The West Indies players will be painting Colombo red with the celebrations. It is a special birthday for Dwayne Bravo . On a pitch that became slower and sluggish as the game progressed , Sri Lanka never got going. The top order failed to get going and the West Indian bowlers sustained the pressure. Kulasekara took 22 runs in one over of Rampaul but it was too little too late. A victory by 36 runs has given West Indies cricket a new lease of life . When Gayle departed early , it seemed that Sri Lanka almost had the game in the bag. However , Marlon Samuels ' knock was vital. West Indies , after the end of 10 overs , were 32/2. Samuels dramatically changed the course of the match as he targetted Malinga. He scored sixes at will and his 78 made all the difference . For Sri Lanka , the light at the end of the dark tunnel has not come yet. Four consecutive ICC World event finals and they lost in all four. Each defeat must hurt the team even more. Mahela and the team had a wonderful time in this tournament , but unfortunately , on the day when it mattered , they tasted defeat again . The celebrations signify the desire of the West Indies team to win at the big stage. After dominating in the 70 's and 80 's , West Indies catastrophically declined in the 90 's and in the early part of the millenium. However , under the leadership of Sammy , they have been galvanized and in the recent months , they built sufficient momentum to win the T20 Cup. As I type , the West Indies players can not control their urge to dancing. Each individual is busy in trying to outdo the other with regards to a better style of Gangnam dancing . 18.4 Narine to Malinga , out Caught by Dwayne Bravo ! ! There is the moment. West Indies are the 2012 T20 Cup champions. All the players are assembled in line and are doing the Gangnam. Full and loopy delivery just outside off , Malinga hoicks it high to long on , it settles down in the safe hands of Dwayne Bravo who takes the catch , all the West Indies players run out and celebrate wildly , what a moment this is for the West Indies. Malinga c Dwayne Bravo b Narine 5 ( 13 ) Narine to Malinga , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 18.3 Narine to Malinga , no run , full toss on middle , Malinga shimmies down the track and thumps it to mid off 18.2 Narine to Malinga , no run , short and spinning away outside off , Malinga cross-bats it to long on , he does not take the single 18.1 Narine to Malinga , no run , flighted delivery on middle , Malinga dances down the track and jams it back to the bowler 17.6 Marlon Samuels to Malinga , 1 run , full and fast delivery on the off stump , Malinga works it to deep mid wicket Akila Dananjaya Perera , left handed bat , comes to the crease Marlon fails to release the ball. He is already fist-pumping to the crowd signifying a West Indies victory . 17.5 Marlon Samuels to Ajantha Mendis , out Caught by Dwayne Bravo ! ! West Indies are doing the Gangnam. Full and flat delivery outside off , Ajantha again moves to the off side and attempts the heave , he does not achieve the distance and Bravo takes the catch at deep mid wicket , all the West Indian fielders gather around Samuels and dance wildly. Ajantha Mendis c Dwayne Bravo b Marlon Samuels 1 ( 2 ) Marlon Samuels to Ajantha Mendis , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 17.4 Marlon Samuels to Malinga , 1 run , full and quick ball on middle , Malinga goes on the backfoot and mistimes the helicopter shot to long on 17.3 Marlon Samuels to Ajantha Mendis , 1 run , full and flat delivery just outside off , Ajantha moves to the off side and flicks it to deep mid wicket 17.2 Marlon Samuels to Malinga , 1 run , low dipping full toss on middle , Malinga backs away and drills it to long off 17.1 Marlon Samuels to Malinga , no run , quick ball pushed through on the pads , Malinga misses out on the whip to mid wicket , it rolls off the pads to point Marlon Samuels [ 3.0-0-11-0 ] is back into the attack 16.6 Narine to Malinga , leg byes , 1 run , on the pads again and Malinga tries to glance it to fine leg , the ball rolls off the pads to short fine , they take a leg bye as the fielder has an under-arm flick at the striker 's end , Ramdin whips the bails off but Ajantha was safely in Third umpire has been called for here. It is for a run-out against Ajantha Mendis. He is SAFE ! 16.5 Narine to Malinga , no run , quick and short ball outside off , Malinga goes for the heave but misses it 16.4 Narine to Malinga , no run , flatter delivery on the middle and leg stump , Malinga glances it to short fine leg , he thinks about a single but is sent back Ajantha Mendis , right handed bat , comes to the crease It is now the battle of the Mystery spinners. Who will come out on top in this contest ? Narine or Ajantha Mendis ? 16.3 Narine to Nuwan Kulasekara , out Caught by Badree ! ! The last hope of resistance has ended. Slightly short and slow delivery outside off , Kulasekara backs away a touch and carves it uppishly to sweeper cover , Badree runs in and takes the catch , the West Indies fans in the stand are absolutely overjoyed. Nuwan Kulasekara c Badree b Narine 26 ( 13 ) [ 4s-3 6s-1 ] Narine to Nuwan Kulasekara , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 16.2 Narine to Nuwan Kulasekara , no run , tossed up delivery on leg stump and it spins back in , Kulasekara misses out on the slog sweep , the ball ricochets off Ramdin 's pad but Gayle collects it 16.1 Narine to Nuwan Kulasekara , 2 runs , full and loopy delivery on middle , Kulasekara makes room and biffs it uppishly to long off for a couple Sunil Narine [ 2.0-0-7-1 ] is back into the attack Narine has one slip in place . Nuwan Kulasekara once launched into a similar counter-attack against Australia in an ODI at Brisbane in 2012. Can he do it again and guide SL over the line ? How will he handle the Narine factor ? 15.6 Rampaul to Nuwan Kulasekara , 1 run , length ball just outside off , Kulasekara goes on the backfoot and punches it to long off to retain strike , 22 runs in this over from Rampaul 15.5 Rampaul to Nuwan Kulasekara , FOUR , full ball outside off , Kulasekara clears the front leg as he slices the drive to third man , Samuels runs in and tries to catch it , he does not realize that it is a free-hit , the ball bounces in front of him and it goes to the third man boundary 15.5 Rampaul to Nuwan Kulasekara , no ball , FOUR , are we onto something here now ? This is good stuff from Kulasekara , Rampaul again errs in his line and length by bowling this delivery too short and wide outside off , Kulasekara flays it to deep backward point for a boundary , free-hit coming up 15.4 Rampaul to Nuwan Kulasekara , FOUR , short ball on the middle and leg stump , Kulasekara latches onto it and pummels the pull shot to the deep mid wicket fence 15.3 Rampaul to Nuwan Kulasekara , SIX , that is the first six of the Sri Lankan innings , full ball on the middle and leg stump , Kulasekara sizes it up and thwacks it way over the ropes at deep mid wicket , that has gotten the crowd going and Sri Lanka need more of this 15.2 Rampaul to Malinga , 1 run , short ball on the stumps , Malinga opens the bat face and fends at it , the ball rolls to third man off the outside edge 15.1 Rampaul to Nuwan Kulasekara , 1 run , Rampaul starts off with a sharp bouncer on the middle and leg stump , Kulasekara swivels and pulls it to fine leg , goes on the bounce to Narine Ravi Rampaul [ 2.0-0-9-1 ] is back into the attack In the last six overs , Sri Lanka have scored 25 runs but have lost six wickets . 14.6 Sammy to Nuwan Kulasekara , 1 run , full and slow ball on the pads , Kulasekara whips it to deep mid wicket , Pollard misfielded slightly but they do not take a couple 14.5 Sammy to Malinga , 1 run , Sammy floats this full delivery slower outside off , Malinga pushes it to extra cover , Gayle does not release the ball 14.4 Sammy to Nuwan Kulasekara , 1 run , full ball just outside off , Kulasekara drives it to long off Lasith Malinga , right handed bat , comes to the crease 14.3 Sammy to Thirimanne , out Caught by Charles ! ! West Indies are inching closer to victory here. Sammy stays round the wicket for the left hander , he bowls a good length slower delivery outside off , Thirimanne bends down and completely mistimes the slog , he holes out to Charles at wide long on. Thirimanne c Charles b Sammy 4 ( 7 ) Sammy to Thirimanne , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 14.2 Sammy to Thirimanne , no run , short of length ball on middle and off , Thirimanne looks to force it through cover but misses it 14.1 Sammy to Nuwan Kulasekara , 1 run , full ball outside off , Kulasekara toe-ends the drive to long off , Kulasekara calls for the second but Thirimanne sends him back , but the throw from Charles is at the wrong end as Kulasekara makes it back to his crease Darren Sammy [ 1.0-0-2-1 ] is back into the attack 13.6 Marlon Samuels to Thirimanne , 2 runs , tossed up delivery on leg stump , Thirimanne dances down the track and smears it to straightish mid wicket for a couple 13.5 Marlon Samuels to Thirimanne , no run , tossed up delivery outside the leg stump and it spins back in , Thirimanne tries to work it to the on side but misses it , gets hit on the front pad 13.4 Marlon Samuels to Nuwan Kulasekara , 1 run , flatter delivery on middle , Kulasekara drives it to long on 13.3 Marlon Samuels to Thirimanne , 1 run , full and loopy delivery on the off stump , Thirimanne drives it uppishly to long off 13.2 Marlon Samuels to Thirimanne , no run , flatter ball that breaks away sharply outside off , Thirimanne has a feel for it and gets beaten Nuwan Kulasekara , right handed bat , comes to the crease 13.1 Marlon Samuels to Thisara Perera , out Thisara Perera Run Out ! ! Wonderful bit of fielding from Ramdin. Flatter delivery bowled from over the wicket , it pitches on leg stump as Thisara attempts the leg glance , the ball hits the thigh pad and rolls to the on side , he takes the quick single as Ramdin runs towards the ball , Samuels urges the keeper not to throw , Ramdin has other ideas as he scores a direct hit at the bowler 's end , the third umpire was not even needed and Thisara walks back. Thisara Perera run out ( Ramdin ) 3 ( 5 ) Marlon Samuels to Thisara Perera , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Marlon Samuels [ 2.0-0-7-0 ] is back into the attack 12.6 Narine to Thisara Perera , 1 run , flatter delivery on the pads , Thisara gets forward and clips it to deep mid wicket 12.5 Narine to Thirimanne , 1 run , slightly short and spinning away outside off , Thirimanne cracks it to deep point 12.4 Narine to Thisara Perera , 1 run , short ball on the off stump , Thisara mistimes the pull to mid wicket Lahiru Thirimanne , left handed bat , comes to the crease 12.3 Narine to Thisara Perera , out Jeevan Mendis Run Out ! ! 1 run completed. Sri Lanka sink even further. Flighted delivery outside off , Thisara thrashes it to mid off and Dwayne Bravo fumbles as the ball bounces awkwardly in front of him , Thisara calls for the second but Bravo fires in a rocket throw to Narine , the bowler is watching the non-striker as he whips the bails off , Jeevan puts in the dive but he is well short of the crease. Jeevan Mendis run out ( Dwayne Bravo/Narine ) 3 ( 3 ) Narine to Thisara Perera , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! The West Indies are celebrating as umpire Taufel calls for the third umpire. It is for a run-out call against Jeevan Mendis. He is a GONER ! 12.2 Narine to Thisara Perera , no run , flatter delivery and spinning away outside off , Thisara punches it to mid off Thisara Perera , left handed bat , comes to the crease 12.1 Narine to Mahela Jayawardene , out Caught by Sammy ! ! That could be it for Sri Lanka. The pressure and the rain factor has gotten rid of Mahela. Narine tosses this delivery up on middle , it kicks up from the pitch as Mahela reverse sweeps but he miscues it totally , the ball lobs up to backward point and Sammy runs back to take a simple catch. Mahela Jayawardene c Sammy b Narine 33 ( 36 ) [ 4s-2 ] Narine to Mahela Jayawardene , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Sunil Narine [ 1.0-0-3-0 ] is back into the attack With the drizzle in the air , the spinners might struggle to grip the ball. The D/L score at the end of this over is 82 . 11.6 Badree to Mahela Jayawardene , 1 run , short ball and spinning away outside off , extra bounce on that delivery as Mahela reaches out for it and cracks it to deep point 11.5 Badree to Jeevan Mendis , 1 run , flatter ball that skids through just outside off , Jeevan plays it late and chops it , the ball sneaks in between Ramdin 's legs and it goes very fine 11.4 Badree to Mahela Jayawardene , 1 run , short delivery outside off , Mahela cuts it to deep point 11.3 Badree to Mahela Jayawardene , 2 runs , superb fielding from Dwayne Bravo , full delivery on middle , Mahela makes room and hammers it inside out to wide long off , Bravo dives to his left and stops a boundary 11.2 Badree to Mahela Jayawardene , 2 runs , catch dropped by Andre Russell , tossed up delivery outside off , Mahela bends down and miscues the slog sweep to long on , Russell runs in and dives forward but he can not collect it 11.1 Badree to Mahela Jayawardene , no run , tossed up delivery on the stumps , Mahela attempts the reverse sweep but he hits it straight to short third man The West Indies players are also looking at the D/L sheet. The groundstaff are getting ready. The par score at the end of this over is 76. The pressure is on Sri Lanka . 10.6 Sammy to Jeevan Mendis , no run , full ball on the off stump , Jeevan pushes it to short cover , a slight fumble but they do not risk a single 10.5 Sammy to Jeevan Mendis , 2 runs , good length ball on the middle and leg stump , Jeevan clips it to long leg for a couple Jeevan Mendis , left handed bat , comes to the crease To add more drama , it has started to drizzle at Colombo. Mahela was looking at the D/L sheet. The par score at this moment is 70 . Jeevan in Hindi means Life. Can Jeevan Mendis provide Sri Lanka with a lifeline ? This total looks to be more and more distant . 10.4 Sammy to Mathews , out Bowled ! ! West Indies are in the game now. Poor shot from Mathews. Full and slow delivery on the stumps , Mathews moves to the off side , he bends down and attempts to paddle scoop it over short fine leg , he misses it and the ball crashes into the stumps. Mathews b Sammy 1 ( 5 ) Sammy to Mathews , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 10.3 Sammy to Mathews , no run , Mathews makes room and Sammy follows him with a back of a length delivery on leg stump , Mathews pushes it to short cover 10.2 Sammy to Mathews , no run , length delivery and straight on the middle and leg stump , Mathews defends it back to the bowler 10.1 Sammy to Mathews , no run , good length ball on the middle and leg stump , Mathews dabs it to short extra cover , Mahela wanted the single but he is sent back Darren Sammy , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 9.6 Badree to Mahela Jayawardene , no run , flatter delivery outside off , Mahela delicately steers it to short third man but straight to the fielder 9.5 Badree to Mahela Jayawardene , 2 runs , flatter delivery on the off stump , Mahela watches it carefully and works it to deep square leg for a couple , Ramdin was giving chase and that is why they could risk a brace 9.4 Badree to Mathews , 1 run , flighted delivery on the off stump , Mathews plunges forward and eases it to long on Angelo Mathews , right handed bat , comes to the crease 9.3 Badree to Sangakkara , out Caught by Pollard ! ! That is a big wicket for the West Indies. The stadium is silent. Sangakkara backs away and Badree bowls a short delivery on the middle and leg stump , Sangakkara clubs the pull to deep mid wicket but he has not achieved the height , Pollard lunges forward and takes the low catch with both hands. Sangakkara c Pollard b Badree 22 ( 26 ) [ 4s-2 ] Badree to Sangakkara , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 9.2 Badree to Mahela Jayawardene , 1 run , Mahela advances down the track and Badree spears it short and wide outside off , Mahela reaches out and slaps it to deep backward point 9.1 Badree to Mahela Jayawardene , no run , tossed up delivery and spinning away outside off , Mahela attempts the slog sweep and misses it Samuel Badree [ 2.0-0-13-0 ] is back into the attack 8.6 Gayle to Mahela Jayawardene , 1 run , flatter ball and it spins back in , Mahela tucks it to mid wicket as Gayle himself gives chase 8.5 Gayle to Sangakkara , 1 run , full toss on the middle and leg stump , Sangakkara thumps it to long on but he did not time it all that well , goes on the bounce to Charles 8.4 Gayle to Mahela Jayawardene , 1 run , flighted delivery but a bit too full just outside off , Mahela drives it to sweeper cover 8.3 Gayle to Sangakkara , 1 run , short ball outside off , Sangakkara flat bats it to long off 8.2 Gayle to Sangakkara , FOUR , majestic shot from Sangakkara , the batsman makes room and Gayle follows him with a quick and full ball on leg stump , Sangakkara creams it inside out over extra cover , one bounce over the ropes at wide long off 8.1 Gayle to Sangakkara , no run , Sangakkara charges down the track and Gayle darts it quick , it straightens as Sangakkara gets an outside edge that rolls to point 7.6 Narine to Mahela Jayawardene , no run , quick and straight delivery just outside off , Mahela pushes it back to the bowler 7.5 Narine to Sangakkara , 1 run , flatter delivery on the middle and leg stump , Sangakkara works it to mid wicket 7.4 Narine to Mahela Jayawardene , 1 run , slightly short in length and turning away , Mahela gets forward and pushes it to cover point 7.3 Narine to Sangakkara , 1 run , in the air but safe , Narine flights this delivery up and it breaks away sharply , Sangakkara slices at it and one hand comes off the bat handle , it lobs up in the air and the ball lands safely at deep backward point for a single 7.2 Narine to Sangakkara , no run , tossed up delivery and it again spins away sharply , Sangakkara goes for the drive and the ball whizzes past the outside edge 7.1 Narine to Sangakkara , no run , cracking delivery first up from Narine , full ball on the middle and leg stump , it breaks away sharply as Sangakkara has a feel for it , the ball goes past the edge Sunil Narine , right-arm off break , comes into the attack A slip in place for Narine. This is a crucial passage of play for the West Indies . 6.6 Gayle to Sangakkara , 1 run , flatter ball outside off , Sangakkara looks to heave it over mid wicket , he ends up mistiming it to the left of Gayle , he runs after it but can not stop it and the ball rolls to mid on 6.5 Gayle to Sangakkara , 2 runs , full and flat delivery outside off , Sangakkara drives it on the up and he manages to get it into the gap at deep extra cover for a couple 6.4 Gayle to Sangakkara , no run , quicker ball angled in just outside off , Sangakkara chops it to point 6.3 Gayle to Mahela Jayawardene , 1 run , flighted delivery outside off , Mahela gets forward and drives it to sweeper cover 6.2 Gayle to Sangakkara , 1 run , full and flat delivery on the middle and leg stump , Sangakkara drives it to long off 6.1 Gayle to Mahela Jayawardene , 1 run , Gayle starts off with a short ball outside off , Mahela uses his wrists nicely and nurdles it to deep square leg , Mahela wanted the second but he is sent back by Sangakkara Chris Gayle , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 5.6 Rampaul to Mahela Jayawardene , 1 run , short ball speared in on the off stump , Mahela hops and nudges it to square leg 5.5 Rampaul to Sangakkara , 1 run , back of a length delivery and it nips away outside off , Sangakkara toe-ends it to mid off for a quick single 5.4 Rampaul to Sangakkara , no run , Sangakkara dances down the track and Rampaul hurls it short on the middle and leg stump , Sangakkara attempts the hook shot but takes his eyes off the ball , Ramdin collects and appeals for a catch , but the bat was nowhere near the ball 5.3 Rampaul to Mahela Jayawardene , 1 run , back of a length delivery slanted in on the middle and leg stump , Mahela walks down the track and mistimes the heave to mid wicket 5.2 Rampaul to Sangakkara , 1 run , a rare misfield from Pollard , short of a good length ball outside off , Sangakkara punchily drives it to point , Pollard misfields and a single results 5.1 Rampaul to Sangakkara , no run , short of length ball outside off , Sangakkara slaps the cut to point but he can not get it past Pollard Ravi Rampaul [ 1.0-0-5-1 ] is back into the attack 4.6 Marlon Samuels to Mahela Jayawardene , no run , flatter ball and it goes straight on with the arm outside off , Mahela has a feel for it and the ball goes past the outside edge 4.5 Marlon Samuels to Sangakkara , 1 run , quicker ball pushed through on the middle and leg stump , Sangakkara flicks it to deep mid wicket 4.4 Marlon Samuels to Sangakkara , no run , flatter ball on the middle and leg stump and it breaks away , Sangakkara taps it to short cover 4.3 Marlon Samuels to Mahela Jayawardene , 1 run , this delivery kicks up outside off and it comes on sluggishly , Mahela mistimes the cut to backward point 4.2 Marlon Samuels to Mahela Jayawardene , no run , tossed up delivery just outside off , Mahela plunges forward and sweeps it to short fine leg 4.1 Marlon Samuels to Sangakkara , 1 run , flatter delivery on the off stump , Sangakkara looks to defend and the ball rolls to square leg off the inside part of the bat 3.6 Badree to Mahela Jayawardene , 2 runs , a low full toss on the middle and leg stump , Mahela clips it into the gap at deep mid wicket for a couple , Mahela had to put in the hard strides but he makes it to the crease 3.5 Badree to Mahela Jayawardene , no run , quicker ball and spinning away outside off , Mahela defends it 3.4 Badree to Mahela Jayawardene , 2 runs , slow and short delivery just outside off , Mahela walks to the off side and bends down as he shovels it past short third man , a couple results 3.3 Badree to Mahela Jayawardene , no run , quicker ball just outside off , Mahela angles the bat and pushes it to backward point , Sangakkara wanted the single but he is sent back 3.2 Badree to Mahela Jayawardene , no run , flatter delivery outside off , Mahela dabs it to point 3.1 Badree to Mahela Jayawardene , FOUR , classy shot from Mahela , poor ball though from Badree , short and wide delivery outside off , Mahela cracks the square cut past point and it races away to the deep backward point fence Samuel Badree [ 1.0-0-5-0 ] is back into the attack 2.6 Marlon Samuels to Sangakkara , no run , slightly short outside off , Sangakkara cuts it to cover point 2.5 Marlon Samuels to Sangakkara , no run , loopy delivery on the middle and leg stump and it turns away , Sangakkara knocks it to point 2.4 Marlon Samuels to Mahela Jayawardene , 1 run , flatter delivery that stops on Mahela on the middle and leg stump , turned to mid wicket 2.3 Marlon Samuels to Mahela Jayawardene , 2 runs , catch dropped by Dwayne Bravo , that could be costly , tossed up delivery just outside off , Mahela bends down and attempts the sweep , he swings it to deep square leg and Bravo runs quickly to his right , he misjudges it and spills the chance 2.2 Marlon Samuels to Mahela Jayawardene , no run , this delivery pitches on a length and it kicks up sharply , it breaks back in as Mahela gets forward and looks to defend , the ball hits the pad and lobs up to Ramdin who appeals , but there was no bat 2.1 Marlon Samuels to Sangakkara , 1 run , tossed up delivery on the off stump , Sangakkara stabs at it and the ball rolls to backward square leg off the inside edge Marlon Samuels , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 1.6 Rampaul to Mahela Jayawardene , no run , full ball and moving away slightly , Mahela knocks it to short extra cover , good over from Rampaul 1.5 Rampaul to Mahela Jayawardene , no run , fuller length ball outside off , Mahela gets forward and pushes it to point 1.4 Rampaul to Sangakkara , 1 run , good length ball on the pads , Sangakkara flicks it to fine leg 1.3 Rampaul to Sangakkara , FOUR , streaky but safe , good length ball and it spits up sharply from the deck just outside off , Sangakkara pushes at it and the outside edge flies past first slip , it goes away to the third man fence 1.2 Rampaul to Sangakkara , no run , short of length ball and it darts back in , Sangakkara defends it Kumar Sangakkara , left handed bat , comes to the crease 1.1 Rampaul to Dilshan , out Bowled ! ! That is an awesome ball from Rampaul. Back of a length delivery angled in on the off stump and it nips away at the last moment , Dilshan looks to cover the line but the ball sneaks past the bat and it detonates the off stump out of the ground. Dilshan b Rampaul 0 ( 3 ) Rampaul to Dilshan , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Ravi Rampaul , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Badree to Mahela Jayawardene , no run , good end to the over , flatter leg break and it grips the surface , it kicks up as Mahela goes back and tries to cut , gets beaten 0.5 Badree to Mahela Jayawardene , FOUR , sublime shot from Mahela , he is a wonderful touch player and he shows it here , Badree bowls a quicker delivery outside off , Mahela uses the pace and guides it delicately past the short third man fielder and it goes away to the boundary 0.4 Badree to Dilshan , leg byes , 1 run , short ball on the middle and leg stump , Dilshan looks to pull it down to fine leg , the ball hits the back thigh pad and it rolls to short fine leg 0.3 Badree to Dilshan , no run , low and dipping full toss on middle , Dilshan comes down the track and thumps it back to the bowler 0.2 Badree to Mahela Jayawardene , 1 run , Badree tosses this up and angles it in on the middle and leg stump , Mahela nudges it to square leg 0.1 Badree to Mahela Jayawardene , no run , Badree starts off with a flighted delivery and he gives it more air just outside off , Mahela drives it back to the bowler Mahela Jayawardene and Dilshan are at the crease. Mahela Jayawardene is on strike. Badree will open the attack Mahela will be taking strike and Badree will start off proceedings . The West Indies team are in the huddle. This is going to be a very tricky chase for the Sri Lankans. Mahela , Dilshan and Sangakkara hold the key here . Mathews : " I had to put it right there and the start was important. The pitch was on the slower side and pretty hard to score on. They needed a bit of time at the start. The bowlers did a very good job of containing them. I think they are 15-20 runs short of a par score. " West Indies have managed to climb up to a score which gives them something to play with. The Sri Lankans began superbly with Ajantha Mendis being the pick. Samuels played a superb knock and waged a lone battle. A few lusty hits from Sammy in the end has given West Indies some hope. Sri Lanka will be confident of getting to it easily though. The chase coming up shortly. Stay tuned . 19.6 Nuwan Kulasekara to Sammy , FOUR , very full , Sammy comes on the frontfoot and drives it hard and straight for a boundary to finish well . 19.5 Nuwan Kulasekara to Sammy , 1 run , full again , Sammy jams it towards long off and Ramdin pushes Sammy for the second and he fails to plonk his bat behind the crease. It is signaled one short. Sammy is hit on the helmet as well by the throw . 19.4 Nuwan Kulasekara to Sammy , 2 runs , very full and slanted in , Sammy flicks it hard towards deep mid wicket and long on again for a couple 19.3 Nuwan Kulasekara to Sammy , 2 runs , full and outside off , Sammy drills it down in front of long off and run well to take two again 19.2 Nuwan Kulasekara to Sammy , FOUR , slow again , Sammy hangs back and pulls it nicely in the gap between deep mid wicket and long on. One bounce and over the ropes . 19.1 Nuwan Kulasekara to Sammy , 2 runs , the slower one dug short , Sammy swings hard but ends up lofting it in front of deep mid wicket and they come back for two Nuwan Kulasekara [ 2.0-0-7-0 ] is back into the attack This is Malinga 's most expensive spell in T20Is. He has conceded 54 in his 4 overs . 18.6 Malinga to Sammy , 1 run , yorker again , Sammy jams it out in front of him and scampers across for one . 18.5 Malinga to Sammy , 2 runs , full and Sammy miscues the lofted shot over cover but fortunately for him it falls down in no man 's land , gets him a couple 18.4 Malinga to Ramdin , 1 run , full and outside off , Ramdin makes room and slices it down to third man for one 18.3 Malinga to Sammy , 1 run , very full , Sammy tries to swing hard but gets it in the inside half of the bat and down to short fine leg 18.2 Malinga to Sammy , FOUR , the french cut from Sammy ! Right in the blockhole , Sammy tries to jam it out but gets an inside edge and it races down to the fine leg fence 18.1 Malinga to Ramdin , 1 run , full and slinging in , Ramdin picks this from outside leg and squeezes it out to sweeper cover 17.6 A Dananjaya to Sammy , no run , turning in , Sammy is hit on the pads even as he tries to tap it on the onside 17.5 A Dananjaya to Ramdin , 1 run , floated up well outside off , Ramdin comes on the frontfoot and drives it wide of long off for one 17.4 A Dananjaya to Sammy , leg byes , 1 run , turning in , Sammy misses the flick and is hit on the pads , it rolls in front of short fine leg and Ramdin is quick to come across for one 17.3 A Dananjaya to Ramdin , 1 run , floated up outside off , Ramdin drills it down to long on 17.2 A Dananjaya to Sammy , 1 run , full and outside off , Sammy jams it towards cover for a quick single Denesh Ramdin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 17.1 A Dananjaya to Marlon Samuels , out Caught by Jeevan Mendis ! ! Marlon Samuels falls after a fine knock. It was short , Samuels gets deep and drags the pull flat and hard down to deep mid wicket. Jeevan takes it well and sinks West Indies. Sammy appreciates the effort even as Samuels walks off very slowly. Marlon Samuels c Jeevan Mendis b A Dananjaya 78 ( 56 ) [ 4s-3 6s-6 ] A Dananjaya to Marlon Samuels , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Akila Dananjaya Perera [ 2.0-0-13-0 ] is back into the attack 16.6 Malinga to Marlon Samuels , 1 run , full and outside off , Samuels dabs it down to third man for one 16.5 Malinga to Marlon Samuels , SIX , Marlon Samuels is in some mood now. Full again , Samuels clears his front foot and lofts it high and deep into the stands over long on. 108m. The longest six of the tournament . 16.4 Malinga to Marlon Samuels , SIX , banged in short , Samuels hooks and connects very well to send it well over the ropes at fine leg this time. Very good hit that . 16.3 Malinga to Marlon Samuels , FOUR , Samuels continues to flay Malinga. This was full and outside off , Samuels gets back and squeezes it up and over backward point for a boundary. Third man had no chance of getting to it . 16.2 Malinga to Sammy , 1 run , slower one on the leg , Sammy turns it in front of short fine leg for a single 16.1 Malinga to Marlon Samuels , 1 run , in the blockhole , Samuels jams it out towards long off for one Lasith Malinga [ 2.0-0-25-0 ] is back into the attack 15.6 Ajantha Mendis to Marlon Samuels , 1 run , Samuels pushed this wide of cover and Mathews was quick to get to it. He fires in at the striker 's end and hits as well. Sammy had to stretch to make his ground just in time . The third umpire has been called for. A run out appeal but Sammy seems safe . 15.5 Ajantha Mendis to Marlon Samuels , no run , on the off , Samuels gets back and blocks it 15.4 Ajantha Mendis to Sammy , 1 run , almost had it , tossed up well outside off , Sammy looks to drive but gets a thick inside edge and unfortunately for Ajantha Mendis it misses the stumps . Darren Sammy , right handed bat , comes to the crease Two slips in place . 15.3 Ajantha Mendis to Andre Russell , out Lbw ! ! Ajantha Mendis is on a hat-trick. Andre Russell misses the sweep first ball and is struck in front of middle. It was floated up and straightens a touch after pitching. Easy decision for Taufel and West Indies slip further down. Andre Russell lbw b Ajantha Mendis 0 ( 1 ) Ajantha Mendis to Andre Russell , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Andre Russell , right handed bat , comes to the crease 15.2 Ajantha Mendis to Pollard , out Caught by A Dananjaya ! ! Ajantha Mendis strikes again and just when Sri Lanka needed him to. Well outside off , Pollard reaches out to cut but gets an outside edge and Dananjaya takes it on the second attempt at short third man much to the delight of his team mates.Pollard c A Dananjaya b Ajantha Mendis 2 ( 4 ) Ajantha Mendis to Pollard , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 15.1 Ajantha Mendis to Pollard , no run , turning away outside off , Pollard tries to reach out and play but misses 14.6 Jeevan Mendis to Pollard , 1 run , very full , Pollard drills it down to long on for just a single 14.5 Jeevan Mendis to Marlon Samuels , 1 run , tossed up , Samuels lofts it up but in front of long off 14.4 Jeevan Mendis to Marlon Samuels , FOUR , Samuels continues to fight. Tossed up on the leg , Samuels gets to the pitch again and hits it right between deep mid wicket and long on 14.3 Jeevan Mendis to Marlon Samuels , SIX , Samuels gets to his FIFTY in style. Floated up again , Samuels dances down and lofts it superbly over the long on fence. Top shot . 14.2 Jeevan Mendis to Pollard , 1 run , floated up , Pollard swings it flat and hard wide of long on for one more Replays show that there was inside edge onto his pads. Taufel does not spot it . 14.1 Jeevan Mendis to Marlon Samuels , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Samuels drives it down to long off for one Kieron Pollard , right handed bat , comes to the crease Jeevan Mendis [ 1.0-0-6-0 ] is back into the attack 13.6 Ajantha Mendis to Dwayne Bravo , out Lbw ! ! Dwayne Bravo does not look very happy. Ajantha Mendis strikes again. It was sliding on straight , Bravo had his bat very close to the pads when it struck him. That was plumb if it was pad first. Dwayne Bravo lbw b Ajantha Mendis 19 ( 19 ) [ 6s-1 ] Ajantha Mendis to Dwayne Bravo , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 13.5 Ajantha Mendis to Marlon Samuels , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Samuels drops it in dront of point for a quick single 13.4 Ajantha Mendis to Marlon Samuels , no run , turning away a touch outside off , Samuels pokes out but makes no contact 13.3 Ajantha Mendis to Dwayne Bravo , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Bravo hits it uppishly and flat down to long off for one 13.2 Ajantha Mendis to Marlon Samuels , 1 run , sliding on , Samuels gets back and pulls it hard down to deep mid wicket 13.1 Ajantha Mendis to Dwayne Bravo , 1 run , outside off , Bravo cuts and Dananjaya fumbles at backward point Ajantha Mendis [ 2.0-0-6-1 ] is back into the attack Still a long way from restoring parity but these two are putting in a very good effort . 12.6 Malinga to Marlon Samuels , SIX , the partnership between Marlon Samuels and Dwayne Bravo is now 50 , Samuels is laying into Malinga. Another superb shot. It looked like a slow one on leg , Samuels lofts it high and handsomely over the long on fence . 12.5 Malinga to Dwayne Bravo , 1 run , slow again and very full , Bravo punches it down to long on for one 12.4 Malinga to Marlon Samuels , 1 run , slower one now , Samuels spots it and is happy to dab it down to third man for one 12.3 Malinga to Marlon Samuels , SIX , another superb hit. Full and on the off this time , Samuels makes room and slashes it square on the offside again. Hit flat but very hard . 12.2 Malinga to Marlon Samuels , SIX , terrific hit from Marlon Samuels. Full and into the legs , Samuels flicks hard and sends it way into the stands over backward square leg 12.1 Malinga to Dwayne Bravo , 1 run , right in the blockhole and sweving in late. Bravo does very well to get his bat down in time and turn it through square leg Lasith Malinga [ 1.0-0-4-0 ] is back into the attack 11.6 A Dananjaya to Marlon Samuels , 2 runs , full and outside leg , Samuels turns it through square leg and comes back quickly for the second 11.5 A Dananjaya to Marlon Samuels , no run , flat and full outside off , Samuels comes on the frontfoot to defend 11.4 A Dananjaya to Dwayne Bravo , 1 run , the leg break this time , Bravo makes toom and dabs it square on the offside for one 11.3 A Dananjaya to Dwayne Bravo , no run , turning in , Bravo is hit on the pads and the loud appeal is turned down 11.2 A Dananjaya to Dwayne Bravo , SIX , Bravo is trying to break the shackles once more. It was floated up , Bravo swings hard and gets it well over the fence at square leg 11.1 A Dananjaya to Marlon Samuels , 1 run , turning in slowly , Samuels gets back and punches it to sweeper cover 10.6 Jeevan Mendis to Dwayne Bravo , no run , floated up , Bravo drives well but finds the man at cover 10.5 Jeevan Mendis to Dwayne Bravo , 2 runs , very full again , Bravo tries to dab it through the offside but gets an inside edge and it rolls in front of deep mid wicket 10.4 Jeevan Mendis to Dwayne Bravo , no run , turning away , Bravo stretches out to defend 10.3 Jeevan Mendis to Marlon Samuels , 1 run , floated up on the leg , Samuels drives it down to long on 10.2 Jeevan Mendis to Marlon Samuels , 2 runs , catch dropped by Kulasekara. First real mistake from Sri Lanka. This was tossed up , Samuels lofts but does not time it too well. Kula races across to his right from long off , gets both hands to it but spills 10.1 Jeevan Mendis to Dwayne Bravo , 1 run , floated up outside off , Bravo makes room and hits it hard and wide of long off for one Jeevan Mendis , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 9.6 A Dananjaya to Marlon Samuels , no run , sliding on now , Samuels watches it closely and blocks 9.5 A Dananjaya to Marlon Samuels , no run , turning in again , Samuels tries to push it on the offside but gets an inside edge onto his pads 9.4 A Dananjaya to Marlon Samuels , no run , floated up , Samuels dances down and swings hard but does not get to the pitch and it turns in to hit his leg 9.3 A Dananjaya to Dwayne Bravo , 1 run , turning in again , Bravo pushes it through mid wicket again for a single 9.2 A Dananjaya to Marlon Samuels , 1 run , very full , Samuels turns it down to deep mid wicket for one 9.1 A Dananjaya to Dwayne Bravo , 1 run , sliding on , Bravo gets a thick inside edge towards short fine leg for one Akila Dananjaya Perera , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Mathews finishes an excellent spell of 4-1-11-1. The Lankans have started off in very similar fashion to India in the 2011 WC. Very intense on the field . 8.6 Mathews to Marlon Samuels , no run , full and outside off , Samuels fails to jam it out . 8.5 Mathews to Marlon Samuels , 2 runs , full and outside off , Samuels punches it to the left of long off now. Kulasekara this time , sprints across and slides to keep them down to two . 8.4 Mathews to Marlon Samuels , 2 runs , Sri Lanka are very alert on the field. Malinga makes a very good stop at sweeper cover as Samuels punches it hard and wide of him . 8.3 Mathews to Dwayne Bravo , 1 run , short of length and outside off , Bravo gets back and eases it wide of third man for just a single again 8.3 Mathews to Dwayne Bravo , wide , Bravo tries to angle it in but strays down the legside 8.2 Mathews to Marlon Samuels , 1 run , pitched up , Samuels chips it gently down to long off for one more 8.1 Mathews to Marlon Samuels , no run , full and outside off , Samuels chops it to point 7.6 Ajantha Mendis to Marlon Samuels , 1 run , turning away again , Samuels plays it off the track and dabs it square on the offside for a single 7.5 Ajantha Mendis to Marlon Samuels , 2 runs , full and outside off , Samuels drives it through cover and comes back quickly for the second. Good running 7.4 Ajantha Mendis to Marlon Samuels , no run , Samuels under pressure and it is showing. He tries to loft it hard but gets a thick inside edge onto his pads 7.3 Ajantha Mendis to Marlon Samuels , no run , very full , Samuels leans out and punches it back to Ajantha Mendis 7.2 Ajantha Mendis to Marlon Samuels , no run , the leg break again , Samuels does not pick it , pokes out and misses 7.1 Ajantha Mendis to Dwayne Bravo , 1 run , full and straight , Bravo comes on the frontfoot and turns it to deep mid wicket 6.6 Mathews to Marlon Samuels , no run , nipping in sharply , Samuels gets his bat down just in time to keep it out 6.5 Mathews to Dwayne Bravo , 1 run , the slower one from Mathews , Bravo leans out and pushes it wide of sweeper cover. Malinga is very quick to come across and keeps them down to one . 6.4 Mathews to Marlon Samuels , 1 run , nipping in a touch from outside off , Samuels gets back and punches it to sweeper cover 6.3 Mathews to Marlon Samuels , no run , good length and just outside off , Samuels taps it to point 6.2 Mathews to Dwayne Bravo , leg byes , 1 run , on the middle and leg , Bravo hops up and tries to turn it on the onside but gets hit on the thigh 6.1 Mathews to Marlon Samuels , 1 run , full and outside off , Samuels goes over cover but there is a man in the deep. Just a single . Angelo Mathews [ 2.0-1-1-1 ] is back into the attack 5.6 Ajantha Mendis to Dwayne Bravo , no run , beaten ! The leg break , Bravo does not pick it and pokes out limply but makes no contact Dwayne Bravo , right handed bat , comes to the crease 5.5 Ajantha Mendis to Gayle , out Lbw ! ! Ajantha Mendis gets the big fish. This was beautiful bowling from the Sri Lankans. The pressure was on Gayle and he succumbs. This was sliding on from over the wicket and strikes Gayle low on the pads even as he was getting forward. Taufel had no doubt in his mind. That was going on to hit middle. Gayle lbw b Ajantha Mendis 3 ( 16 ) Ajantha Mendis to Gayle , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 5.4 Ajantha Mendis to Gayle , no run , floated up on the leg , Gayle paddle sweeps it to short fine leg 5.3 Ajantha Mendis to Gayle , no run , another confident appeal but to no avail. It pitches on leg and turns in a touch to strike him on the pads. Probably sliding down . 5.3 Ajantha Mendis to Gayle , wide , full and sliding down the legside , Gayle misses the sweep 5.2 Ajantha Mendis to Marlon Samuels , 1 run , turning away outside off , Samuels opens the face and runs it straight into Mahela at slip. It gets deflected towards short third man allowing Samuels to get off strike . 5.1 Ajantha Mendis to Marlon Samuels , no run , on the off , Samuels gets back and punches it to mid off Ajantha Mendis , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 4.6 Malinga to Gayle , no run , short of length and well outside off , Gayle drops his wrists and watches Sanga collect it 4.5 Malinga to Marlon Samuels , 1 run , outside off again , Samuels dabs it down to third man and jogs across for one 4.4 Malinga to Gayle , 1 run , full and outside off , Gayle watches it closely and runs it down to third man 4.3 Malinga to Gayle , no run , yet another one goes past Gayle 's bat. The off cutter from Malinga. It kicks up off the turf and Gayle is beaten all ends up as he leans forward to defend 4.2 Malinga to Marlon Samuels , 1 run , on a good length and very straight , Samuels gets up on his toes and taps it in the vacant square leg area for one more 4.1 Malinga to Gayle , 1 run , on the leg , Gayle turns it behind square on the onside for an easy single Lasith Malinga , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 3.6 Nuwan Kulasekara to Marlon Samuels , no run , some extra bounce for Nuwan Kulasekara off a good length , Samuels was on the frontfoot but manages to adjust quickly and dabs it towards point 3.5 Nuwan Kulasekara to Gayle , 1 run , full and outside off , Gayle leans forward and hits it wide of mid off for a quick single 3.4 Nuwan Kulasekara to Gayle , no run , very loud appeal again but it is turned down. Full and striking Gayle in front of leg but that was pitching outside leg. Good decision . 3.3 Nuwan Kulasekara to Marlon Samuels , 1 run , full and outside off , Samuels pushes it to the left of mid off for a quick single 3.2 Nuwan Kulasekara to Marlon Samuels , no run , full and straight , Samuels gets his bat down just in time to block it 3.1 Nuwan Kulasekara to Marlon Samuels , FOUR , Samuels breaks the shackles. It was full and outside off , Samuels flays out and gets it past the man at cover for a much needed boundary 2.6 Mathews to Gayle , no run , another one goes past the bat. Full and angled outside off , Gayle pokes out at it but makes no contact. Mathews extends an already good start. That will mount more pressure on Gayle and Marlon Samuels . 2.5 Mathews to Marlon Samuels , 1 run , on the off , Samuels gets a thick inside edge to short fine leg for one 2.4 Mathews to Marlon Samuels , no run , very loud appeal but Aleem Dar is unmoved. Good shout this. It was nipping in and struck Samuels high on the front leg in front of middle. The height was the only concern for the umpire and that would have probably gone over the stumps . 2.3 Mathews to Marlon Samuels , no run , close to the off stump again , Samuels drops it in front of cover and thinks about a quick single but Gayle refuses it 2.2 Mathews to Marlon Samuels , no run , on the off , Samuels punches it to mid off 2.1 Mathews to Marlon Samuels , no run , Mathews continues to keep it outside off , Samuels is happy to let it go through 1.6 Nuwan Kulasekara to Gayle , no run , on the middle and leg , Gayle can do nothing much but turn it to square leg. Very good start already for Sri Lanka . 1.5 Nuwan Kulasekara to Gayle , no run , Gayle is getting a little nervous it appears. He walks down the track and tries to force this delivery through the offside but misses. It was angled away and moving further outside off . 1.4 Nuwan Kulasekara to Gayle , no run , very close to the off stump again , Gayle opens the face to play it to point 1.4 Nuwan Kulasekara to Gayle , wide , full and sliding down the legside , called a wide rightly and West Indies get off the mark 1.3 Nuwan Kulasekara to Gayle , no run , just outside off , Gayle stays back in the crease and dabs it towards point 1.2 Nuwan Kulasekara to Gayle , no run , Gayle walks down the track now. Perhaps to counter the swing. Nuwan Kulasekara keeps it full and Gayle can only defend . 1.1 Nuwan Kulasekara to Gayle , no run , angled across from over the wicket and well outside off , Gayle does not offer a shot Nuwan Kulasekara , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Mathews to Marlon Samuels , no run , good length and well outside off , Samuels leaves again. Mathews starts off with a wicket maiden . Marlon Samuels , right handed bat , comes to the crease 0.5 Mathews to Charles , out Caught by Nuwan Kulasekara ! ! Sri Lanka draw first blood. It was short of length and climbing up , Charles is hurried into the pull and ends up miscuing it completely. Kulasekara settles under a simple catch at mid off and that gets the sizeable crowd going. Charles c Nuwan Kulasekara b Mathews 0 ( 5 ) Mathews to Charles , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 0.4 Mathews to Charles , no run , just outside off again , Charles remains patient and pushes it to point 0.3 Mathews to Charles , no run , outside off again , Charles comes on the frontfoot and taps it towards point 0.2 Mathews to Charles , no run , closer to the off stump now , Charles leans forward and pushes it to cover 0.1 Mathews to Charles , no run , a gentle away swinger outside off , Charles decides to leave Charles and Gayle are at the crease. Charles is on strike. Mathews will open the attack One slip in place . Aleem Dar walks out with Simon Taufel. An emotional moment for the latter too. It will be his last game as an umpire but we can trust him to remain impassioned as always . The national anthems are over. Both the captains seem pumped up already . Teams : West Indies ( Playing XI ) : Johnson Charles , Chris Gayle , Marlon Samuels , Dwayne Bravo , Kieron Pollard , Andre Russell , Denesh Ramdin ( w ) , Darren Sammy ( c ) , Sunil Narine , Ravi Rampaul , Samuel Badree Sri Lanka ( Playing XI ) : Mahela Jayawardene ( c ) , Tillakaratne Dilshan , Kumar Sangakkara ( w ) , Jeevan Mendis , Thisara Perera , Angelo Mathews , Lahiru Thirimanne , Nuwan Kulasekara , Ajantha Mendis , Akila Dananjaya Perera , Lasith Malinga Mahela : " We would have liked to bat first too but maybe it is a good toss to lose in the big game. Akila is in for Rangana Herath. It was a tough call. We are very excited. " Sammy : " We are going to bat first. We bat well and it gives us a good chance here. It is similar to the one we played against Australia. We are playing the same team. It is Dwayne Bravo 's birthday today and I would like to wish him now. Hopefully we come out on top. " West Indies have won the toss and elected to bat Hello and welcome everyone to the big finale. Expect a full crowd today as the hosts , Sri Lanka , search for glory on home turf. West Indies will be looking to spoil the party as Chris Gayle has already said. Both teams have a good mixture of all-rounders and explosive batsmen capable of turning the game on its head. The pitch will be the cynosure of all eyes before the start. Will it aid the home team ? If yes , how will Gayle and co tackle it. The toss and more coming up in just a bit so stay tuned . Preview by Shashreek For the World T20 2012 , it is finally 'D ' Day. One team will be crowned the champions , while the other will have to make do with a small runner 's up medal and a hurt ego. Sri Lanka could n't have asked for a better scenario , they have a chance of clinching glory in front of their home crowd , however , that depends on whether they thrive under pressure or crumble . West Indies have momentum behind them and enter this contest on the back of some thrilling performances. One thing the men from the caribbean have done well , is put in a good all-round performance and that is something they will yearn for in the final. There will be some pressure on Darren Sammy and his men since this side does n't have much experience in the current scenario. After all , it has been six years since the West Indies made it to a final of an ICC event , the last occasion being in the ICC Champions trophy 2006 . Sri Lanka on the other hand will be desperate to capitalize on this final. The hosts remained unbeaten in the 2009 T20 WC 2012 , however , faltered in the final and lost to Pakistan. This tournament 's story has been quite similar for the Lankans , with plenty of victories and just the one loss to South Africa in the group stage. Mahela Jayawardene and his men will certainly not want to let history repeat itself and will know that they will not get a better opportunity than this . Team News West Indies : Chris Gayle has already made it clear that his side is favourite to win the World Cup , and he probably has every right to do so after the way he has wielded the willow in this tournament. Apart from Gayle at the top , this batting line up has the capability of sending a shiver down the spine of any bowler. With big hitting batsmen of the likes of Johnson Charles , Marlon Samuels , Dwayne Bravo and Kieron Pollard , this line up promises to put in a venomous performance . The bowling too boasts of tremendous balance and better still , it is perfect for the conditions in Sri Lanka. Sunil Narine , Samuel Badree and Marlon Samuels add immense value to the spin department , however , this spin attack will be put to the test when they take on Sri Lanka , a side quite capable of handling top quality spin. Ravi Rampaul will lead the pace attack and Sammy could be tempted to bring in Fidel Edwards to test the hosts. Apart from that there is plenty of variety in the attack in the form of Pollard and Bravo , who are known for their ability to vary the pace . Sri Lanka : Mahela and his men will be extremely pleased with how they have fared in this tournament. The batting has clicked until now , however , as was evident in the game against Pakistan , this line up is heavily dependent on the likes of Tillakaratne Dilshan , Kumar Sangakkara and the captain. Despite that though , Sri Lanka does have a few all rounders who can turn it up on the big day , Angelo Mathews and Jeevan Mendis to name a few . Bowling has been the key for the hosts in this tournament. The line up is a real threat with spinners of the quality of Ajantha Mendis , Akila Dananjaya and Rangana Herath. Dananjaya was left out in the game against Pakistan , however , he could come in for Herath in the final. That move should be handy against left hander Gayle. Just like their opponents , Sri Lanka too have some variety in their attack in the form of Mathews , Nuwan Kulasekara and the accurate Lasith Malinga . Final Word : With both sides so evenly matched , the game will probably be decided by which side bats better. Going by the current batting form , West Indies might just clinch this one . Quote : Chris Gayle : " World Cup is definitely ours , sorry Sri Lanka , but I think it is our World Cup. The support will be more for West Indies on Sunday. We love Sri Lanka , but sorry , it is going to be West Indies all the way. The final will be a good final but we will be on top , definitely. " Mahela Jayawardene : " Gayle is just another player in a very good West Indies side. But we plan and analyse for a team , not individuals " Teams : Sri Lanka ( From ) : Mahela Jayawardene ( c ) , Tillakaratne Dilshan , Kumar Sangakkara ( w ) , Jeevan Mendis , Thisara Perera , Angelo Mathews , Lahiru Thirimanne , Nuwan Kulasekara , Rangana Herath , Ajantha Mendis , Lasith Malinga , Akila Dananjaya Perera , Dinesh Chandimal , Shaminda Eranga , Dilshan Munaweera West Indies ( From ) : Johnson Charles , Chris Gayle , Marlon Samuels , Dwayne Bravo , Kieron Pollard , Andre Russell , Denesh Ramdin ( w ) , Darren Sammy ( c ) , Sunil Narine , Samuel Badree , Ravi Rampaul , Dwayne Smith , Darren Bravo , Fidel Edwards , Lendl Simmons Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
