Phillip Hughes Accident : Former India Captain Nari Contractor Offers Tales of Hope Phillip Hughes Accident : Former India Captain Nari Contractor Offers Tales of Hope Nari Contractor was struck on the back of the head by a rising ball from West Indies fast bowler Charlie Griffith , during a practice match in Barbados in 1962. Contractor , now 80-years-old , was unconscious for six days but recovered. He has offered his best wishes to Hughes for a speedy recovery . Last updated on Wednesday , 26 November , 2014 15 : 28 IST Total Shares File photo of Phillip Hughes . © AFP New Delhi : As the cricketing world anxiously awaits progress from Phillip Hughes , a tale of hope comes from a man who survived a similar accident -- former India captain Nari Contractor . Fifty-two years ago , Contractor was struck on the back of the head by a rising ball from West Indies fast bowler Charlie Griffith , during a practice match in Barbados . Contractor , who was not wearing a helmet , was helped from the field but he started bleeding from his nose and ears and vomiting , before an emergency operation that saved his life . The player was unconscious for six days and needed a further operation and blood transfusions , but he finally came round and , now aged 80 , offered his best wishes to Hughes . The 25-year-old Australian , also a left-handed opener , is in critical condition after being hit on the base of the skull by a bouncer during a domestic game in Sydney on Tuesday . " I wish Hughes gets well soon , my prayers are with him , " Contractor , who vividly remembers that fateful day in 1962 , told The Hindu newspaper . " Those were days when there were no helmets , no restriction on the number of bouncers in an over and no restrictions on beamers either , " he said . " The pitches were uncovered. But it was the same for everyone then and we were prepared for the challenge . " I must thank fellow cricketers who donated blood for me , and the surgeon who conducted the emergency operation. I was in the operation theatre for a long time. " Few players have been in such dire circumstances , but New Zealand tailender Ewen Chatfield was also badly injured on his Test debut in 1975 when he was struck on the temple by a delivery from England 's Peter Lever in Auckland . As he lay on the field , Chatfield was given mouth-to-mouth resuscitation by England physiotherapist Bernard Thomas. He regained consciousness in hospital . After his accident , Contractor was unable to build on his 31-Test career and he handed the captaincy to Mansur Ali Khan Pataudi . Among those who donated blood was West Indies legend Frank Worrell , a gesture that " showed the game transcended boundaries " said Contractor 's team-mate , Chandu Borde . " Times are different now. There is so much protective gear , " said the former all-rounder . " In our days , when we walked out to face men such as Wesley Hall or Griffith without helmets , we were not sure whether we would come back alive. " The latest hospital update said there was no change in the condition of Hughes , who was knocked unconscious and had emergency surgery to relieve pressure on his brain . Story first published on : Wednesday , 26 November 2014 14 : 15 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
