Graphs So with this match ending in a tie , the series is still alive. India though have a huge task - looking at the way this series has panned out - to level the series. The next match is at Hamilton on the 28th of January. Do join us then , for now goodbye and enjoy the rest of the weekend in whatever little way you can. Peace out ! Gautam Bhimani tweets : Sadly India cant win the series any more. But they have set it up nicely for 2-2 Alt Cricket tweets : 628 runs , 19 wickets , 100 overs...only way a fan could have got more of his money 's worth is if he took the $ 100k catch ! # NZvIND Mazher Arshad tweets : It is first time that an ODI between India and New Zealand has ended as TIE. # NZvInd Rajneesh Gupta tweets : MS Dhoni has now been involved in 4 tied ODIs- most for any captain.Richie Richardson , S Waugh & S Pollock were involved in 3 ties . Ayaz Memon tweets : Amazing finish...and a redemption song of sorts by india Mohandas Menon tweets : If Australia win their last ODI v Eng they will be no 1 India then will have to win their next 2 games vs NZ to regain no1 position # NZvInd Some tweets from the twitterverse Jadeja : 'I was very happy , as I was able to do something for my side. Unfortunately we could n't cross the line , but we learnt a lot of things from this game. With the short and straight boundaries , it was difficult to bowl here. I 'm donating 500 dollars to the Auckland University cricket club.' Ravindra Jadeja is the Man of the Match for his all-round show. He picked up 2/47 and made 66 off 45 balls . Dhoni : 'I think we batted well , but if you are supposed to pick situations , where we could have closed the game comprehensively , those were the situations we did not grab. Disappointing that the batters could n't finish it off. Happy with the tie as it keeps us alive in the series. If you do n't bowl yorkers , it goes for runs. That 's one area we 've got to improve. The first 5-6 overs were n't good , the spinners brought us back. I had faith when Jadeja and Ashwin were there , the problems started when Jadeja started telling Bhuvi , it is always a problem when Jadeja starts telling people what to do. Ashwin should 've been there at the end.' McCullum : 'I thought it was a brilliant game of cricket , they showed why there are one of the power-houses of cricket. We had chances at the end , but did n't take them. It was a fantastic game in the end. We did n't utilise as much , we lost too many wickets in the 35-40 over period. We should 've got 340 , but that is asking for too much. Credit to India , they put us under pressure all the time and deserved the tie. Our guys bowled pretty well , we missed a couple of times - that 's the nature of the ODI game. Bennett has had much publicized issues with injury , for him to come back and bowl with pace and bounce like this , is great to see and we are glad for him. Delighted for him. Delighted for Guptill as well.' One must say though that , India and especially Ravindra Jadeja were very lucky as the Kiwis buckled under pressure as the chase became hot. Run-out chances were missed left right and centre , even the normally world-class Williamson felt the pressure getting to him as he could n't hit the stumps on many occasions. Couple of brilliant moments in the field though from the home side - the catches by Southee and Guptill were brilliant , with the latter 's simply astounding for the calmness shown under pressure . So many ifs and buts one can discuss from the game. Going back to the first innings , Bhuvneshwar dropped Southee in the 48th over , and then the fast bowler went on to make 23 after that. What if Southee had been caught , Indian fans would say. In the 2nd innings , Williamson failed to hit direct on at least three occasions with Jadeja short of his crease , what if those had gone the Kiwis ' way. Then most crucially , Bennett misjudged a skier off Jadeja when 22 still were required. If only Bennett had caught that. These are all history now and that 's why this game is such an unpredictable one. It throws up a surprise everytime , when you least expect it . Corey Anderson , was the star for the Kiwis with the ball , registering his maiden five-for , but he would be a touch disappointed that he could n't do the job with 18 left in the bank off the last over. But one has to rememeber that the boundaries at Eden Park are ridiculously small for a cricket ground and there was always bound to be pressure on him , bowling the final over , irrespective of the match situation . New Zealand seemed to be the favorites when India needed 18 off the last over with just the one wicket remaining , but big hitting from Jadeja brought it to 2 off 1 ball. The final delivery though brought just a single and if the same thing had happened in a T20I , there would 've been a Super Over , but we do n't have that luxury in ODIs yet. So the result will remain a tie. Perhaps a fitting result , for both sides did n't deserve to be on the losing side after such a humdinger . Phew ! One of the great ODI games and it has ended in a tie , leaving India with still a possibility of squaring the series , if they win the last two matches. Today 's tie also ensures that they do n't lose the No. 1 ranking in ODIs for the time being. India looked down and out when Dhoni fell , but a super counter-attacking stand of 85 between Ashwin and Jadeja tilted the game in the visitors ' favor , before the game took another twist with Ashwin 's wicket . 49.6 Corey Anderson to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , it 's a tie ! What a finish to a great game. Good bowling that from Corey Anderson - bowled it slower and wide of off , Ravindra Jadeja could only get a decent connection on the hard slap through the off-side , the ball trickles wide of cover where the fielder slides to collect the ball. Sees that the batsmen are n't going for the 2nd and calmly keeps the ball. So this engrossing game has ended in a tie at Eden Park . Lots of discussion amongst the Kiwis now. Baz is having a chat to the bowler. All three results possible. What are we going to have here ? Here he comes , Corey Anderson to bowl the final delivery. Can Jadeja do it for India. Nerve-shredding tension out at Eden Park . 49.5 Corey Anderson to Ravindra Jadeja , SIX , Ravindra Jadeja is turning out to be the hero for India. What a strike that is ! Corey Anderson errs by going short , Ravindra Jadeja just slapped that flat-batted over long-on. The ball whistled away over the ropes. Ravindra Jadeja is the toast of the nation currently . 49.4 Corey Anderson to Ravindra Jadeja , FOUR , Ravindra Jadeja is doing it for India. Smartly whips the short ball off the hips , wide of deep square leg , bounces away into the fence 49.4 Corey Anderson to Ravindra Jadeja , wide , great thinking by Ravindra Jadeja. The ball was following his leg , but he smartly stepped inside the line and allowed it to let go. He had initially moved to the off-side , then allowed to let that go 49.3 Corey Anderson to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , now Jadeja refuses the single , after dabbing it to third man. Jadeja has to do it all himself 49.2 Corey Anderson to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , a dot ! Ravindra Jadeja makes room and misses the slash , was the short delivery , but Jadeja could n't put bat to ball 49.2 Corey Anderson to Ravindra Jadeja , wide , short and down leg , wide called. Corey Anderson does n't like the call. Has a word with the umpire , but that was clearly a wide 49.1 Corey Anderson to Ravindra Jadeja , FOUR , the game is alive and kicking. Short on the stumps , Ravindra Jadeja pulls hard and gets it in the gap , over midwicket and well wide of Gups in the deep. A boundary to start off the over. Aaron likes it and has a word with Ravindra Jadeja , egging him on Baz and Corey Anderson have a chat. The field is being set as I type. Here we go 48.6 McClenaghan to Aaron , no run , he survives ! Pacy short of length delivery outside off , Aaron tries to run it down and misses. So nearly could 've edged it One ball to survive for Aaron 48.5 McClenaghan to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , slower ball bouncer , Ravindra Jadeja pulls and it bounces away to backward square leg , just the single 48.5 McClenaghan to Ravindra Jadeja , wide , McClenaghan is going wild after that short delivery is called wide. A right call though as it was way over the head of the batsman 48.4 McClenaghan to Aaron , 1 run , defended to the right of McClenaghan and a quick single taken 48.3 McClenaghan to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , Bennett has completey misjudged that at third man ! Should have been the game as Ravindra Jadeja slashed that towards him. The big man could n't pick it cleanly initially , was late in coming forward and by the time , he dived forward to catch it , the ball had already hit the turf. Baz is n't impressed at all The game is still in New Zealand 's favor , but a couple more big hits and the Kiwis will feel the pressure. Baz has a word with his bowler now . 48.2 McClenaghan to Ravindra Jadeja , SIX , Ravindra Jadeja has nailed that. Length ball , angling in to off , Jadeja goes deep in his crease and swings across the line , to send the ball several rows back into the stands at deep midwicket. If McClenaghan misses his length , Jadeja is a good enough striker to put him away 48.1 McClenaghan to Aaron , 1 run , gives the strike back to Jadeja with a single to short midwicket 47.6 Corey Anderson to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , short and wide outside off , Ravindra Jadeja slashes and misses. Could n't reach out to play that. Bad news for India - Aaron will be on strike next over Varun Aaron , right handed bat , comes to the crease 47.5 Corey Anderson to Shami , out Caught by Williamson ! ! The dream run of Corey Anderson continues - maiden five-for him in ODIs. What was Shami doing though ? He tries to fiddle a length delivery to leg and can only leading-edge it high up in the air , Kane accepts the dolly at point. All up to Jadeja now. Shami c Williamson b Corey Anderson 2 ( 7 ) Corey Anderson to Shami , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 47.4 Corey Anderson to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , backs away and slaps it to extra cover , just the single 47.3 Corey Anderson to Shami , 1 run , would you believe that ? Williamson has missed a run-out chance again. Jadeja had given up , Kane could 've run to the stumps and hit , instead tries to under-arm it onto the stumps and misses. Is on the ground in disappointment. Jadeja survives for the umpteenth time 47.2 Corey Anderson to Shami , no run , wild slog from Shami , to a full and wide delivery outside off , does n't make any contact. Poor batting this , has to give the strike back to Ravindra Jadeja 47.1 Corey Anderson to Shami , no run , dabbed to point , straight to the fielder no chance of a run Corey Anderson [ 8.0-1-44-4 ] is back into the attack 46.6 McClenaghan to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , what has happened there ? Ravindra Jadeja has hit the leather off it and Rod Tucker rules it not out. Big moment in the game , Jadeja pulling and getting a big edge , Ronchi and McClenaghan were pleading with the umpire , who had only answer - not out. McClenaghan was down on the ground after bowling the delivery , turned around and appealed. Tucker calms the Kiwis down. Snicko confirms the snick. Jadeja lucky again. Will that decision turn around the game ? 46.5 McClenaghan to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , edged , but does n't carry to Ronchi. Short and cramping Ravindra Jadeja for room , he gloves it , but it wo n't carry for there is no pace on the shot. Ronchi did n't dive forward as well , should 've gone for it 46.4 McClenaghan to Ravindra Jadeja , SIX , Ravindra Jadeja is keeping this match alive. Half volley on the stumps , Jadeja drilled it over long-on , got right under that and gave it an almighty whack 46.3 McClenaghan to Shami , 1 run , Ravindra Jadeja survives again as Williamson misses with an under-arm flick from point , a tight single always and if Kane had hit , Jadeja was gone A slip is in place. Good attacking captaincy this. McClenaghan is coming from round the wicket 46.2 McClenaghan to Shami , no run , poor stroke , full and wide outside off , Shami swings and misses . 46.1 McClenaghan to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , low full toss and Ravindra Jadeja gets an inside edge onto the pads , the ball dribbles away to the on-side , Shami will be on strike now - just what the Kiwis wanted Mitchell McClenaghan [ 8.0-0-57-0 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Bennett to Shami , no run , flicked to mid-on , from the crease , Ravindra Jadeja wants the strike , asks his partner to stay where he is 45.5 Bennett to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , forcefully whipped to long-on , but straight to the fielder Mohammed Shami , right handed bat , comes to the crease 45.4 Bennett to Bhuvneshwar , out Caught by Nathan McCullum at mid-on ! ! A brain fade from Bhuvneshwar and he has thrown it away. Backs away to pull and completely mistimes it , Nathan runs back to complete an easy grab. Why do you want to play a shot like that , when the better option was to give the strike back to Ravindra Jadeja. The ball hurried onto him and Bhuvneshwar was woefully out of position to play the stroke. Bhuvneshwar c Nathan McCullum b Bennett 4 ( 3 ) [ 4s-1 ] Bennett to Bhuvneshwar , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 45.3 Bennett to Bhuvneshwar , FOUR , risky shot with the slip in , but superbly done in the end. Arches back and glides it off the face , beyond Ross at 1st slip , the ball flies away to the fence. Ravindra Jadeja likes it and has some words of advice for his partner 45.2 Bennett to Bhuvneshwar , no run , great fielding from Williamson at point , saves a boundary. Crashing square drive from Bhuvneshwar , but straight to the fielder who went down cleanly and caught hold of the ball. New Zealand buzzing now 45.1 Bennett to Ravindra Jadeja , leg byes , 1 run , off the pad and it is a leg bye 44.6 Nathan McCullum to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , dabbed to point , Ravindra Jadeja retains the strike Bhuvneshwar Kumar , right handed bat , comes to the crease 44.5 Nathan McCullum to Ashwin , out Caught by Guptill ! ! What a catch ! Sheer brilliance from Gups at deep midwicket. Any other fielder and it was a six , but he has reeled it back in. Ashwin again going high with the hoick , it was going for a six , but Gups standing almost on the rope near the fence , cooly catches it , then realises he is going over , throws the ball back in , takes a step out , then in and catches it again , with both his feet inside the playing area. Nonchalantly done. The third umpire confirms the clean catch. End of Ravi Ashwin. Has he given the Kiwis a slight opening. Fine knock though it must be said. Ashwin c Guptill b Nathan McCullum 65 ( 46 ) [ 4s-8 6s-1 ] Nathan McCullum to Ashwin , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 44.4 Nathan McCullum to Ashwin , no run , flat and on the stumps , defended 44.3 Nathan McCullum to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , glanced to short fine leg , McClenaghan fires the throw to Ronchi , showing off his frustration 44.2 Nathan McCullum to Ashwin , 1 run , sensibly defends it to short cover , easy single 44.1 Nathan McCullum to Ashwin , SIX , Gee ! Massive strike that from Ashwin. Comes down the track and launches it way over long-on , the ball went a long way up in the air , and when it landed it was in the corporate boxes. India with all the momentum in this chase now. New Zealand badly need a wicket 43.6 Bennett to Ashwin , 1 run , softly tapped to deep mid wicket , Ashwin keeps the strike with that single 43.5 Bennett to Ashwin , no run , short and following Ashwin who was making room , the batsman can not connect with the ramp 43.5 Bennett to Ashwin , wide , Billy Bowden has called that a wide and Bennett does n't like it at all , has a word with the umpire. It was short and down leg , followed the batsman who was trying to help it away over third man , went over his head. Marginal call that 43.4 Bennett to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , Ravindra Jadeja gets a slight inside edge onto the pads as he looks to tuck to leg , they take the single this time Now Ashwin walks up to Jadeja to have a word , trying to calm his partner down 43.3 Bennett to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , if Williamson from point had hit , Ravindra Jadeja was gone , though he was diving to make it back. Did n't know where the ball had gone , set off , Ashwin was n't interested at all , sends him back , luckily for Jadeja , Kane missed his swooping under-arm flick 43.2 Bennett to Ravindra Jadeja , FOUR , this time Ravindra Jadeja connects with the slash. Fiercely hit and eludes the diving McClenaghan at third man , who flew to his left to catch it with one hand 43.1 Bennett to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , Ravindra Jadeja tries to ramp the short ball and does n't make contact. A precious dot that for New Zealand Hamish Bennett [ 8.0-2-29-1 ] is back into the attack 42.6 Nathan McCullum to Ashwin , no run , loud shout for lbw , but that has pitched outside leg. Clearly hitting the stumps , but not-out is the call and rightly so 42.5 Nathan McCullum to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , played to long on , Ravindra Jadeja wants two , but Ashwin is n't interested at all 42.4 Nathan McCullum to Ashwin , byes , 1 run , now a missed stumping chance by Ronchi. Definite chance that as Ashwin charged and missed the flick , the ball kept a tad low and sneaked under the legs of the batsman. Ronchi failed to gather and Ashwin gets away. Is that the big turning point ? 42.3 Nathan McCullum to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , has Southee dropped that at long-on ? Very tough to call that a dropped chance , the fast bowler was charging in from the boundary and the ball just fell in front of him , even as he was trying to wrap his hands around the ball 42.2 Nathan McCullum to Ashwin , 1 run , calmly nudges this to backward square leg 42.1 Nathan McCullum to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , fraction short outside off , punched to deep extra cover 41.6 Southee to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , Ravindra Jadeja works it to deep mid wicket , wants two , but Guptill it is , so they settle for just a single 41.5 Southee to Ashwin , 1 run , shuffles across to off and flicks the low full toss to deep mid wicket 41.4 Southee to Ashwin , FOUR , superbly played. The width was there for that shot - and Ashwin executed it beautifully. Opened the face and sliced it wide of a diving Ronchi. The crowd at Eden Park are back into life and are loudly cheering for the visitors - lots of Indians in the crowd today , one must say 41.4 Southee to Ashwin , wide , Southee misses his yorker , well outside off , wide called 41.3 Southee to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , a short-arm jab to deep square leg 41.2 Southee to Ravindra Jadeja , 2 runs , the momentum is swinging towards India , slowly but surely. Baz has a wry smile on his face after his throw hits the stumps direct and ricochets off. They pinch an extra run. Was the throw needed ? Ashwin was well in , by the way 41.1 Southee to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , Ravindra Jadeja makes room and tries to slash a short ball through the off-side , does n't make contact. One bouncer for the over called 40.6 Nathan McCullum to Ashwin , FOUR , Ashwin brings up fifty with a well-executed reverse sweep , it was outside off and he played it over point. Raises his bat and has a word with Ravindra Jadeja who looks happy for his partner. The chase is n't dead just yet 40.5 Nathan McCullum to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , Ravindra Jadeja softly dabs this to short third man , easy single on offer and they take it 40.4 Nathan McCullum to Ashwin , 1 run , use of the feet and worked away to backward square leg 40.3 Nathan McCullum to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , fraction short outside off , cut away to deep backward point 40.2 Nathan McCullum to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , well bowled ! Turn and bounce for Nathan McCullum , Ravindra Jadeja prodding forward to defend , is comprehensively beaten 40.1 Nathan McCullum to Ashwin , 1 run , makes room and drives along the ground to long off Nathan McCullum [ 5.0-0-18-0 ] is back into the attack 39.6 Southee to Ravindra Jadeja , SIX , Ravindra Jadeja has tonked that. Southee missed his length just a wee bit and the batsman cashed in. Drilled it flat and hard over long-off , all the way. 13 off the over 39.5 Southee to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , right up there , in the blockhole , dug out back to the bowler. No room whatsoever 39.4 Southee to Ashwin , 1 run , low full toss , flicked to deep mid wicket , in the air , but in the gap 39.3 Southee to Ashwin , FOUR , short and down leg , poor bowling with fine leg up in the circle , gloves the pull and down to the fence 39.2 Southee to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , low full toss on leg stump , flicked to deep mid wicket. Just the single again 39.1 Southee to Ashwin , 1 run , low full toss , driven to long-on Tim Southee [ 8.0-0-51-1 ] is back into the attack 38.6 McClenaghan to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , Ashwin sends Ravindra Jadeja back , tries to cut that too hard and mistimes it to the off-side , no chance of a quick single and a good call by Ashwin 38.5 McClenaghan to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , comes on the front foot and plays a nice looking square drive , but straight to the fielder at point 38.4 McClenaghan to Ravindra Jadeja , FOUR , crashed ! Picks the short ball and smashes it wide of mid-on , cleanly hit. Runs coming in boundaries now 38.3 McClenaghan to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , pacy short delivery , flies past the nose of Ravindra Jadeja who was arching back and then left it alone 38.2 McClenaghan to Ashwin , 3 runs , that is a rare sight - Ashwin diving to make his crease. An elegant cover drive , the ball stopped near the ropes and Ashwin hared back , before diving to ensure the third was completed. Nice little momentum building for the Indians 38.2 McClenaghan to Ashwin , wide , misses his radar and goes down leg 38.1 McClenaghan to Ashwin , FOUR , now Ashwin gets an edge and wide of the slip. Tries to ramp the rising delivery outside off and gets a bottom edge , down to the short third man fence. McClenaghan gives vent to his frustration by screaming 37.6 Corey Anderson to Ravindra Jadeja , FOUR , well done ! Ravindra Jadeja on his toes and opening the face of the bat to run the ball down , past a diving short third , inside the ring. Another handy boundary , but India still behind the asking rate. Corey Anderson does n't look too impressed with that 37.5 Corey Anderson to Ashwin , 1 run , now dabs it to short third man , and takes the single 37.4 Corey Anderson to Ashwin , FOUR , very bad ball that - short and down leg , with fine leg up in the circle , not the ball to be bowling , Ashwin just helps it past the diving fielder 37.3 Corey Anderson to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , off the toe-end of the bat as Ravindra Jadeja charges Corey Anderson , a quick single taken 37.3 Corey Anderson to Ravindra Jadeja , wide , carbon copy of the previous delivery and consecutive wides from Corey Anderson 37.3 Corey Anderson to Ravindra Jadeja , wide , short and down leg , left alone , wide called 37.2 Corey Anderson to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , loud appeal for lbw , but it was sliding down as Ravindra Jadeja missed the flick to a length ball angling in 37.1 Corey Anderson to Ashwin , 1 run , Southee misfields , but it does n't cost his side any runs , pulled straight to him and the ball bobbles off his hands , poor running from the batsmen 36.6 McClenaghan to Ashwin , 1 run , full and on off , flicked to deep square leg , Ashwin retains the strike with that run 36.5 McClenaghan to Ashwin , no run , full toss and flicked straight to the fielder at mid-on , no chance of a quick single 36.4 McClenaghan to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , ugly slog , Ravindra Jadeja making room and drags the big shot to deep square leg 36.3 McClenaghan to Ashwin , 1 run , comes on the frontfoot and flicks wide of mid-on 36.2 McClenaghan to Ashwin , FOUR , fine shot that. Ashwin plays that shot really well , goes deep in his crease and then cuts it wide of point , who dived but could n't even get a hand on that , the ball raced away to the fence 36.1 McClenaghan to Ashwin , no run , back and across , before defending it to point Mitchell McClenaghan [ 6.0-0-38-0 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Corey Anderson to Ashwin , 1 run , Southee being called upon once more , but this time , the ball falls in front of him. Short-arm pulled by Ashwin and luckily he did n't connect it so well 35.5 Corey Anderson to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , rides the bounce and hooks wide of midwicket to get off the mark Ravindra Jadeja , left handed bat , comes to the crease 35.4 Corey Anderson to Dhoni , out Caught by Southee at deep backward square leg ! ! That could be the match and the series right there. A blinder from Southee. Dhoni pulled that hard and flat , it was travelling at the speed of light , Southee though cooly grabbed it with both hands. Somehow the ball stuck in his hand. The golden arm of Corey Anderson strikes again. Dhoni c Southee b Corey Anderson 50 ( 60 ) [ 4s-2 6s-3 ] Corey Anderson to Dhoni , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 35.3 Corey Anderson to Dhoni , SIX , fullish and on off , that is in Dhoni 's slot as he slams it several rows over long off , a spectator tries to catch that in the crowd and misses , shows his disappointment 35.2 Corey Anderson to Dhoni , no run , length delivery just outside off , swatted back to the bowler 35.1 Corey Anderson to Ashwin , 1 run , back of a length delivery angled in on off from round the wicket , Ashwin gets a step forward and taps it wide of the bowler for a single Corey Anderson [ 6.0-1-22-3 ] is back into the attack It is the batting powerplay and Anderson is drafted back. . 34.6 Nathan McCullum to Dhoni , no run , shortish and just outside off , Dhoni drives it to cover 34.5 Nathan McCullum to Dhoni , no run , quicker and on middle , driven back to the bowler 34.4 Nathan McCullum to Ashwin , 1 run , cut away to backward point for a single 34.3 Nathan McCullum to Dhoni , 1 run , worked off the pads to backward square leg 34.2 Nathan McCullum to Dhoni , no run , flatter on middle , Dhoni drops it in front of mid-wicket and hunts for a quick single but decides againt it at the last second 34.1 Nathan McCullum to Ashwin , 1 run , driven down the carpet to long on 33.6 Bennett to Dhoni , no run , cannoned on off , driven past the bowler to mid-off 33.5 Bennett to Dhoni , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Dhoni chops it off an under edge that dribbles away to the keeper 33.4 Bennett to Ashwin , 1 run , reverts to the shorter length of the spectrum , Ashwin mistimes the pull wide of mid-wicket 33.3 Bennett to Ashwin , FOUR , fullish and on off , Ashwin comes on the front foot and flicks it beautifully to the deep mid wicket fence 33.2 Bennett to Ashwin , no run , back of a length and close to off , Ashwin miscues the pull as it goes only as far as mid-on 33.1 Bennett to Ashwin , no run , slightly short of length and outside off , Ashwin 's pull does not come to pass , in fact he ends up all beaten 32.6 Nathan McCullum to Dhoni , no run , quicker on middle and leg , Dhoni nudges it towards mid-wicket 32.5 Nathan McCullum to Ashwin , 1 run , manoeuvred down the ground to long on 32.4 Nathan McCullum to Dhoni , 1 run , fired on middle and leg , Dhoni places it to deep square leg. Dhoni was desperate for the second but Ashwin does not respond. Sloppy stuff from Ashwin 32.3 Nathan McCullum to Dhoni , no run , defended carefully now 32.2 Nathan McCullum to Dhoni , 2 runs , drifting on to the pads , worked away to backward square leg , the misfield from Taylor ensures that the second run is taken with ease 32.1 Nathan McCullum to Dhoni , no run , quicker on middle , patted back to the bowler 31.6 Bennett to Dhoni , 1 run , too full and straight , Dhoni leans forward and flicks it in his own inimitable style to deep square leg 31.5 Bennett to Dhoni , no run , keeps it nice and full on off again , Dhoni unfurls another drive , this one fails to beat cover 31.4 Bennett to Dhoni , no run , pitched up on off , Dhoni drives it sweetly but for no runs 31.3 Bennett to Ashwin , 1 run , fullish and on off , Ashwin whisks it towards mid wicket 31.2 Bennett to Dhoni , 1 run , length ball outside off , Dhoni whips it away to backward square leg 31.1 Bennett to Dhoni , no run , full on middle , Dhoni prods across a touch and defends it to the leg-side Hamish Bennett [ 6.0-2-21-1 ] is back into the attack 30.6 Nathan McCullum to Dhoni , 1 run , Dhoni goes on the back foot and nudges it away to square leg to retain strike 30.5 Nathan McCullum to Ashwin , 1 run , flatter and pushed through quicker on middle , bunted to long on 30.4 Nathan McCullum to Ashwin , no run , defended down the pitch now 30.3 Nathan McCullum to Dhoni , 1 run , on a length and outside off , Dhoni pushes it to cover and calls Ashwin for a quick single. Ashwin , who was initially ball watching makes the ground as the pick up from Williamson was far from clean 30.2 Nathan McCullum to Dhoni , no run , full and on middle , squeezed out back to the bowler 30.1 Nathan McCullum to Dhoni , no run , punched to cover 29.6 Southee to Dhoni , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Dhoni punches it off the back foot to deep cover 29.5 Southee to Ashwin , 1 run , clipped around the corner behind square leg 29.4 Southee to Ashwin , FOUR , just wide of a leaping Anderson at deep backward square leg. This was shortish and on the stumps , Ashwin rocks back and pulls it uppishly , Anderson attacked the ball by running in , he eventually pulled off a sprawling dive only for the ball to evade him and reach the fence 29.3 Southee to Ashwin , no run , back of a length ball outside off , Ashwin shapes up for the cut but chops it behind the sticks towards first slip 29.2 Southee to Dhoni , 1 run , slightly back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Dhoni goes deep in the crease and nudges it past square leg 29.1 Southee to Dhoni , no run , marginally short and just outside off , Dhoni chops it just wide of cover Time for a drinks break. India started off impressively with a flurry of boundaries but then Corey Anderson quelled the charge with a triple strike. The Indian middle order came a cropper yet again , leaving too much for Dhoni. New Zealand well on top at the moment . 28.6 Nathan McCullum to Dhoni , 1 run , quicker on middle and leg , Dhoni turns it away behind square 28.5 Nathan McCullum to Dhoni , no run , flighted delivery on off , Dhoni drives it back to the bowler , who flings himself to his left to save runs 28.4 Nathan McCullum to Ashwin , 1 run , spinning down leg , Ashwin paddles it away to fine leg 28.3 Nathan McCullum to Dhoni , 1 run , length delivery hurled on off , Dhoni drills it to long off 28.2 Nathan McCullum to Ashwin , 1 run , spinning down leg , nudged away to backward square leg 28.1 Nathan McCullum to Ashwin , no run , tossed up on middle , driven back to the bowler 27.6 Southee to Dhoni , no run , fullish and around off , Dhoni prods forward and defends it towards cover to round off an eventful over 27.6 Southee to Dhoni , wide , banged in short on the stumps , Ronchi leaps off his feet to grab that. The square leg umpire deems it a wide 27.5 Southee to Ashwin , 1 run , Southee targets the yorker length but delivers a full toss on middle , Ashwin jams it out to deep mid wicket Ravichandran Ashwin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 27.4 Southee to Raina , out Caught by Ronchi ! ! The short delivery brings about Raina 's downfall again. This was the slower bouncer outside off , Raina shapes up for the pull , bottom-edges it to the keeper. Umpire Bowden raises his crooked finger without any second thoughts. India have already lost half their side. Raina c Ronchi b Southee 31 ( 39 ) [ 4s-3 ] Southee to Raina , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 27.3 Southee to Dhoni , 1 run , too full and straight , flicked away to backward square leg for a single 27.3 Southee to Dhoni , wide , length delivery wide outside off , the umpire calls it a wide , Southee is not very happy 27.2 Southee to Raina , 1 run , length ball outside off , guided to third man 27.2 Southee to Raina , wide , an appeal for caught behind from Ronchi. Umpire Bowden shoots him down , deeming it a wide. There was a deflection as the ball passed Raina with Snicko confirming it. Did the ball brush the glove as Raina misses the glance ? There seems to no conclusive proof 27.1 Southee to Dhoni , 1 run , good length delivery on off , Dhoni shuffles across and tuns it to short mid wicket 26.6 Nathan McCullum to Raina , 2 runs , tossed up and outside off , Raina lifts this nonchalantly over cover with a flourish , the ball plugs in the outfield , the result is a couple 26.5 Nathan McCullum to Raina , no run , blocked to cover 26.4 Nathan McCullum to Raina , no run , pushed back to the bowler 26.3 Nathan McCullum to Raina , 2 runs , half tracker outside off , Raina rocks back and cuts it away to deep backward point , where Guptill makes a rare fumble , allowing the batsmen to pinch the extra run 26.2 Nathan McCullum to Raina , no run , Raina shimmies down the track and defends it back to the bowler 26.1 Nathan McCullum to Raina , no run , quicker outside off , pushed to the off-side off the back foot Nathan McCullum , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 25.6 Southee to Dhoni , no run , slightly back of a length and outside off , punched to cover 25.5 Southee to Dhoni , FOUR , tests Dhoni with the short of length delivery outside off , Dhoni rolls his wrists and pulls it away behind square. Dhoni soliders on 25.4 Southee to Raina , 1 run , friendly length delivery sliding down leg , glanced away to fine leg 25.3 Southee to Dhoni , 1 run , short of length delivery on the stumps , Dhoni serenely pulls it to long leg 25.2 Southee to Dhoni , no run , slightly back of a length and close to off , Dhoni is cramped for room as he defends it back to the bowler 25.1 Southee to Raina , leg byes , 1 run , fullish and on the pads , Raina does not connect the flick , the ball trickles off the pad in front of square Tim Southee [ 5.0-0-31-0 ] is back into the attack 24.6 McClenaghan to Raina , 1 run , spreared in full on off , Raina digs it out just wide of Baz at mid-on 24.5 McClenaghan to Raina , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Raina guides it behind point 24.4 McClenaghan to Raina , no run , fullish and just outside off , Raina meekly pushes it to cover 24.3 McClenaghan to Raina , 2 runs , shortish and just outside off , Raina swats it away to deep mid wicket 24.2 McClenaghan to Raina , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Raina plays and misses 24.1 McClenaghan to Raina , FOUR , short of length delivery down leg , Raina pulls uppishly off a top-edge , he gets this just wide of Southee to pick up a boundary. Southee is stretching now 23.6 Williamson to Dhoni , SIX , That was a monster blow from Dhoni. This was on a length on middle and leg , Dhoni picks it up from there and mows it into the second tier over the deep square leg fence 23.5 Williamson to Raina , 1 run , turned away to mid wicket 23.4 Williamson to Raina , no run , Raina comes down the track , takes this on the full and tharshes it to cover , straight to the fielder 23.3 Williamson to Dhoni , 1 run , turning down leg , Dhoni helps it across behind square on the on-side 23.2 Williamson to Raina , 1 run , quicker and flatter on middle , Raina works it away to mid wicket 23.1 Williamson to Dhoni , 1 run , spinning in on middle , Dhoni chips down the track and whips it to deep square leg 22.6 McClenaghan to Dhoni , 1 run , fractionally back of a length and on the stumps , Dhoni goes on the back foot and nudges it behind square leg for a single and with that he will retain strike 22.5 McClenaghan to Dhoni , no run , fullish and around off , Dhoni drives handsomely but is unable to beat the tight off-side infield MSD takes some time to recalibrate and cool off . 22.4 McClenaghan to Dhoni , no run , back of a length delivery on middle and off , Dhoni shapes up for the pull in vain 22.3 McClenaghan to Dhoni , no run , slightly back of a length and outside off , punched to cover 22.2 McClenaghan to Dhoni , 2 runs , fullish and on middle and leg , Dhoni brings out his favorite whiplash and directs it between midwicket and long on , Nathan McCullum runs back and cuts it to only two 22.1 McClenaghan to Dhoni , no run , fullish and on off , Dhoni drives it back to the bowler off the front foot 21.6 Williamson to Dhoni , 1 run , spinning in on middle , played to mid-wicket , who misfields as the ball sneaks through his legs , allowing the batsmen to steal a single where they should have been none 21.5 Williamson to Raina , 1 run , Raina advances down the track and slaps it over the bowler 's head to long off 21.4 Williamson to Raina , FOUR , loads of width on offer , Raina latches on to it as he cuts it off the middle of the bat to the third man fence 21.3 Williamson to Raina , no run , fullish and outside off , Raina opens the face of the bat and runs it to point 21.2 Williamson to Dhoni , 1 run , back of a length quicker delivery on middle and leg , Dhoni pulls it behind square leg 21.1 Williamson to Dhoni , no run , worked away to mid-wicket Kane Williamson , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 20.6 McClenaghan to Dhoni , leg byes , 1 run , back of a length ball down leg , Dhoni fails to galnce it away , the ball brushes the pad , the duo pinch a leg bye 20.5 McClenaghan to Raina , 1 run , length ball down leg , Raina helps it across to fine leg for a single 20.4 McClenaghan to Raina , no run , slightly back of a length and outside off , Raina pushes it towards point 20.3 McClenaghan to Dhoni , 1 run , fullish on middle and leg , whisked away to mid wicket 20.2 McClenaghan to Raina , 3 runs , short of length and on the stumps , Raina brings out a controlled pull to deep mid wicket , where Anderson almost parried it away to the fence. He lost his balance while he was gathering the ball just inches from the ropes. He reels it in before the momentum carried him behind the ropes 20.1 McClenaghan to Raina , no run , good length delivery outside off , Raina winds up for a big swing but only makes contact with thin air Mitchell McClenaghan [ 3.0-0-23-0 ] is back into the attack 19.6 Corey Anderson to Dhoni , no run , similar length , outside off as well , Dhoni 's reply is no different either as he lets it pass to the keeper 19.5 Corey Anderson to Dhoni , no run , fullish and homing in on the fifth stump , left alone 19.4 Corey Anderson to Dhoni , no run , slightly back of a length and just outside off , Dhoni looks to swat it away but no dice 19.3 Corey Anderson to Dhoni , no run , fullish on off , Dhoni drives it towards mid-off 19.2 Corey Anderson to Dhoni , SIX , Dhoni gets into the thick of the action by advancing down the track and slamming this length delivery high over long-on , India need more of these from their skipper 19.1 Corey Anderson to Dhoni , no run , fullish and jagging away outside off , Dhoni hoists his bat and leaves it for the keeper 18.6 Bennett to Raina , no run , this bouncer very much on the radar , directed at Raina 's body , who sits under that 18.6 Bennett to Raina , wide , Bennett responds with a pacy bumper , Raina ducks under , the umpire calls it a wide because it was far too high 18.5 Bennett to Raina , FOUR , first convincing shot from Raina. This was fullish and outside off , Raina leans forward and crunches it through cover 18.4 Bennett to Dhoni , 1 run , slightly back of a length ball on middle and leg , Dhoni goes on the back foot and clips it away to backward square leg. Guptill swoops in on the ball and restricts it to just a single 18.3 Bennett to Dhoni , no run , marginally back of a length and angled across , Dhoni allows it through to the keeper 18.2 Bennett to Raina , 1 run , Bennett contunies to pepper Raina with short balls , Raina plays a half-hearted pull and directs this to deep mid wicket 18.1 Bennett to Raina , no run , shortish and outside off , Raina fails to connect the pull 17.6 Corey Anderson to Dhoni , FOUR , length ball down leg , Dhoni glances it away to long leg off the front foot 17.6 Corey Anderson to Dhoni , wide , pitched up again but this one swings away wide outside off , prompting Umpire Bowden to deem it a wide 17.5 Corey Anderson to Dhoni , no run , pitched up and moving away outside off , left alone wisely MS Dhoni , right handed bat , comes to the crease Mahendra Singh Dhoni walks out to face the music. . 17.4 Corey Anderson to Rahane , out Caught by Ronchi ! ! Anderson snares his third wicket as India 's run-chase stutters. This was a harmless length ball down leg , Rahane seeks to tickle it away fine. He gets a thin edge which is snaffled up by the keeper. Umpire Bowden raises his dreaded finger to ring Rahane 's death-knell. Rahane c Ronchi b Corey Anderson 3 ( 14 ) Corey Anderson to Rahane , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 17.3 Corey Anderson to Rahane , no run , pitched up on middle , Rahane drives it ram-rod straight , the ball deflects the stumps at the non-striker 's end. Excellent shot for no runs 17.3 Corey Anderson to Rahane , wide , back of a length delivery sprayed down leg , too wide for the umpire 's liking 17.2 Corey Anderson to Rahane , no run , back of a length delivery and just outside off , Rahane camps on the back foot and punches it firmly but finds cover 17.1 Corey Anderson to Rahane , no run , good length delivery nipping in on middle , Rahane inches forward and blocks it back to the bowler 16.6 Bennett to Raina , no run , length ball on middle , Raina glances but can not get it past short fine leg 16.5 Bennett to Raina , no run , pitched up and swerving away outside off , Raina lets it pass as the keeper takes it in front of first slip 16.4 Bennett to Raina , no run , 140kph back of a length delivery on off , Raina jumps up and blocks it back to the bowler 16.3 Bennett to Rahane , 1 run , nudged off the pads to fine leg for a single Bennett seems like a like for like replacement for Milne. There were plenty of question marks over his fitness. He has been mighty effective so far . 16.2 Bennett to Rahane , no run , dug in outside off , Rahane goes for a full blooded cut but no dice 16.1 Bennett to Rahane , no run , slightly back of a length delivery just outside off , Rahane hops up to negotiate it 15.6 Corey Anderson to Rahane , 1 run , tucks this one off the hips around the corner to fine leg 15.5 Corey Anderson to Raina , 1 run , good length delivery on middle , Raina works it away to mid on off the back foot Two men in the deep for the hook. . 15.4 Corey Anderson to Raina , no run , bumper on the stumps , Raina sinks below it 15.3 Corey Anderson to Raina , no run , shortish and outside off , Raina is way early into the pull , the ball kisses the bottom edge and wanders away wide of cover 15.2 Corey Anderson to Raina , no run , fullish and on off , Raina gets forward to tap it to mid-off 15.1 Corey Anderson to Raina , no run , good length delivery on off , Raina leans forward and defends it in front of the bowler 14.6 Bennett to Raina , 1 run , a tail-up Bennett delivers a short of length delivery on the body at 140kph , Raina rises off his feet and manoeuvres it to fine leg with a half-pull Suresh Raina , left handed bat , comes to the crease 14.5 Bennett to Kohli , out Caught by Ronchi ! ! An uncharacteristic innings from Kohli comes to a close. The Kiwis mob Bennett. This was back of a length and just outside off , Kohli looks to drive on the up , the ball grazes the outside edge and nestles into the gloves of the keeper. Kohli is very distraught as he walks back to the change room. Kohli c Ronchi b Bennett 6 ( 20 ) [ 4s-1 ] Bennett to Kohli , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 14.4 Bennett to Kohli , no run , back of a length and on off again , Kohli chops it on to his pads , Kohli is finding it difficult here 14.3 Bennett to Kohli , no run , Oh dear ! Kohli nearly drags this back. This was a back of a length delivery on off , Kohli looks to defend but is beaten for pace , luckily the ball misses the stumps 14.2 Bennett to Rahane , 1 run , 140 kph short of length delivery hurrying onto Rahane , who hops up and fends it in front of backward square leg 14.1 Bennett to Kohli , 1 run , back of a length ball just outside off , Kohli runs it away to third man for his first runs in 12 deliveries 13.6 Corey Anderson to Rahane , no run , nice and full again with some minute away movement , Rahane choses to shoulder arms 13.5 Corey Anderson to Rahane , no run , fullish and on off , luring Rahane into a forward defensive push to cover 13.4 Corey Anderson to Rahane , no run , bouncer on the stumps , Rahane sinks beneath it 13.3 Corey Anderson to Rahane , no run , similar length and just outside off , Rahane lunges forward and taps it to cover 13.2 Corey Anderson to Rahane , no run , good length delivery on off , Rahane gets a good stride forward and defends it back to the bowler Ajinkya Rahane , right handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now. The hosts have pulled things back with the wickets of Dhawan and Sharma in quick succession . 13.1 Corey Anderson to Rohit , out Caught by Bennett ! ! Sharma fritters away a bright start for the umpteenth time. Meanwhile , Corey Anderson 's stock soars higher in international cricket. This was on a length and outside off , Sharma makes room and slashes hard , he only manages to slice it off the outside edge to third man , where Bennett completes a smart catch. Rohit c Bennett b Corey Anderson 39 ( 38 ) [ 4s-1 6s-4 ] Corey Anderson to Rohit , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 12.6 Bennett to Kohli , no run , back of a length and outside off , Kohli continues to shackle himself from play at those. Second maiden for the comeback man 12.5 Bennett to Kohli , no run , now ventures back of a length and outside off , Kohli dabs it behind point again with an angled bat 12.4 Bennett to Kohli , no run , 141 kph short of length delivery outside off , Kohli gets on top of the bounce and guides it to point 12.3 Bennett to Kohli , no run , back of a length and shaping in , Kohli is unperturbed as he shoulders arms again 12.2 Bennett to Kohli , no run , fuller and wide outside off , Kohli lets it pass 12.1 Bennett to Kohli , no run , back of a length ball slanted across , Kohli swishes and misses as the ball scoots past the outside edge 11.6 Corey Anderson to Kohli , 1 run , too full and straight as Kohli tucks it away through mid wicket 11.5 Corey Anderson to Kohli , FOUR , delectable shot ! This was on a good length and on off with a bit of inswing , Kohli wristily turns it wide of mid-on , the rich timing carries the ball to the fence 11.4 Corey Anderson to Kohli , no run , good length delivery outside off , Kohli dabs it behind point 11.3 Corey Anderson to Kohli , no run , pitched up on off , Kohli transfers his weight on to the front foot and drives it straight to the fielder at mid-off 11.2 Corey Anderson to Rohit , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Sharma employs the open face of the bat as he steers it away to third man for Bennett to tidy up 11.1 Corey Anderson to Rohit , no run , good length delivery on off , Sharma props forward and bunts it to cover 10.6 Bennett to Kohli , no run , good length delivery on middle , Kohli drives it off the front foot straight to the fielder at mid-on. End of an efficient over from Bennett 10.5 Bennett to Kohli , no run , hurdled in full on off , Kohli drills it back to the bowler , who stuck his hands out to take evasive action. During the process , he deflects the ball to mid-on and prevents any runs to be pinched 10.4 Bennett to Kohli , no run , good length delivery on off , Kohli defends it to point off the front foot 10.3 Bennett to Kohli , no run , similar delivery outside off , Kohli gives the bowler the cold shoulder again 10.2 Bennett to Kohli , no run , back of a length ball slanted across , left well alone 10.1 Bennett to Kohli , no run , good length delivery homing in on off , Kohli props forward and defends it just wide of cover Hamish Bennett [ 1.0-0-10-0 ] is back into the attack Neesham is on the field for Southee , who has picked up a back strain. . 9.6 Corey Anderson to Rohit , 2 runs , back of a length delivery outside off , Sharma opens the face of the bat and places it to square third man to deny Anderson a maiden 9.5 Corey Anderson to Rohit , no run , good length delivery on off , Sharma bunts it to cover off the front foot 9.4 Corey Anderson to Rohit , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Sharma dabs it towards third man 9.3 Corey Anderson to Rohit , no run , length ball outside off , Sharma steers it to short third man Virat Kohli , right handed bat , comes to the crease 9.2 Corey Anderson to Dhawan , out Caught by Guptill ! ! Anderson delivers the breakthrough for New Zealand. This was shortish and on the stumps , Dhawan carries on with the uppish pull , the ball was dipping on Guptill at deep mid-wicket but he rushed forward and dived to pull off a screamer. Dhawan 's promising little knock comes to an abrupt halt. Anderson high-fives Guptill. Dhawan c Guptill b Corey Anderson 28 ( 25 ) [ 4s-4 6s-1 ] Corey Anderson to Dhawan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 9.1 Corey Anderson to Dhawan , no run , length ball on middle and leg , Dhawan nudges it just wide of that man at short mid-wicket Corey Anderson , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Baz turns to Corey Anderson in search of a breakthrough.. A catching mid-wicket and a short fine in 8.6 Southee to Dhawan , 1 run , slightly back of a length and just a smidge outside off , Dhawan runs it away to third man to keep strike The ball seems to have gone out of shape. The replacement box comes on the field . 8.5 Southee to Dhawan , FOUR , Dhawan chips down the track , takes it on the full and thrashes it through cover. The Indian openers are at it again 8.4 Southee to Dhawan , FOUR , Dhawan , who was initially moving across the stumps , make the late adjustment to drive this fullish one outside off , he places this wide of Guptill at cover 8.3 Southee to Dhawan , no run , back of a length delivery close to off , Dhawan is cramped for the cut as the ball goes only as far as point 8.2 Southee to Dhawan , no run , length ball outside off , Dhawan dances down the track and stabs it away but Ryder at point jumps up to stop the ball with one hand 8.1 Southee to Dhawan , no run , fullish and on off , Dhawan remains in the crease and pats it to point 7.6 Bennett to Rohit , FOUR , slightly back of a length delivery down leg , Sharma gets inside the line and clips it away past the man at short fine leg. Rohit Sharma is in his groove 7.5 Bennett to Rohit , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Sharma steers it to backward point from the crease 7.4 Bennett to Rohit , SIX , fullish on middle and leg , Sharma clears his front leg and thwacks it over long on. He is right to stand there and admire his shot 7.3 Bennett to Rohit , no run , similar length and on off , Sharma gets half forward and defends it to mid-on now 7.2 Bennett to Rohit , no run , 134kph good length delivery on off , Sharma pushes it gently to mid-off 7.1 Bennett to Rohit , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , blocked to the off-side Hamish Bennett , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Bennett to have a bowl at the highest level after a near 3-year hiatus . 6.6 Southee to Dhawan , no run , length delivery just outside off , Dhawan dabs it behind point 6.5 Southee to Dhawan , SIX , Dhawan advances down the track and slaps it over the bowler 's head , the ball clears the long-on fence. Nice , brisk start for India 6.4 Southee to Rohit , 1 run , Sharma rides the bounce of this back of a length ball outside off and dabs it to third man 6.3 Southee to Rohit , no run , back of a length and on off , Sharma chops it straight to the fielder at point 6.2 Southee to Rohit , no run , well-directed bumper outside off , Sharma arches half-back and lets it pass , the umpire says one for the over 6.1 Southee to Rohit , no run , Sharma hangs back and defends it this back of a length delivery just outside off towards point with an angled bat 5.6 McClenaghan to Dhawan , no run , much fuller and straighter from McClenaghan , Dhawan defends it to the on-side 5.5 McClenaghan to Rohit , 1 run , McClenaghan now turns to a slower bounce outside off , Sharma deciphers it as he drags it away to square leg 5.4 McClenaghan to Rohit , SIX , He nails the pull this time ! McClenaghan tests Rohit with a short delivery just outside off , Sharma pulls it wonderfully , up and over deep square leg 5.3 McClenaghan to Rohit , no run , back of a length delivery on middle , blocked carefully 5.2 McClenaghan to Rohit , SIX , quicksilver footwork from Rohit Sharma. Sharma forays down the track , meets the pitch of the ball and lofts it over long-off to impose himself on McClenaghan 5.1 McClenaghan to Rohit , no run , length ball outside off , Sharma defends it in front of point 4.6 Southee to Dhawan , no run , slightly back of a length and outside off , Dhawan wafts at it and gets beaten as the ball zips past the outside edge 4.5 Southee to Dhawan , no run , good length delivery on middle , blocked to mid-on 4.4 Southee to Rohit , 1 run , lady luck smiles on Rohit again as his ungainly pull drops into safe territory , in front of mid-wicket. This was shortish and on the stumps , Sharma looks to hook off the front foot , the top edge falls into no-man 's land 4.3 Southee to Dhawan , 1 run , fullish around off , driven down to mid off , the fumble from McCullum grants him the single 4.2 Southee to Dhawan , FOUR , drifting down leg , Dhawan pootles a wristy flick that races to the backward square leg fence 4.1 Southee to Dhawan , no run , good length delivery on middle , no room whatsoever , Dhawan gets half forward and blocks it 3.6 McClenaghan to Rohit , no run , zeroes in on off again , Sharma gets forward and pats it to mid-off to round off the over 3.5 McClenaghan to Dhawan , 1 run , pitched up on off , Dhawan turns it wide of mid on and calls through Sharma for a swift single 3.4 McClenaghan to Rohit , 1 run , short of length delivery on the body , Sharma transfers his weight on to the back foot , rolls his wrists and pulls it to behind square leg 3.3 McClenaghan to Rohit , no run , full and on off , Sharma defends it with circumspection 3.2 McClenaghan to Rohit , no run , pitched up and outside off , Sharma lunges forward and drives but the man at cover pulls out a diving stop to take sheen off the shot 3.1 McClenaghan to Rohit , no run , fullish and angled in on off , Sharma inches forward and taps it towards point 2.6 Southee to Dhawan , 2 runs , on a length and on middle and leg , Dhawan clips it away through mid-wicket 2.5 Southee to Dhawan , FOUR , shortish and gaining on Dhawan , who rocks back and manages to pull it behind square , despite being cramped for room 2.4 Southee to Dhawan , no run , slightly back of a length and on off , Dhawan camps on the back foot and defends it in front of cover 2.3 Southee to Dhawan , no run , pitched up and outside off , Dhawan leans and drives crisply but can not peirce the tightly packed off side infield 2.2 Southee to Dhawan , no run , half volley on leg-stump , Dhawan fails to flick it away 2.1 Southee to Dhawan , no run , bouncer sailing into the keeper 's gloves as Dhawan ducks under. Southee had already warned India of a bouncer barrage ahead of this game 1.6 McClenaghan to Rohit , 2 runs , pitched up and outside off , Sharma plays another lofted drive , he did not time this as well as he would have liked but placed this expertly between mid-off and cover to earn a brace 1.5 McClenaghan to Rohit , no run , slightly back of a length and slanted across , Sharma says all yours to Ronchi 1.4 McClenaghan to Rohit , no run , good length delivery on middle , defended from the crease 1.3 McClenaghan to Rohit , no run , pitched up outside off , Sharma spars at it and misses 1.2 McClenaghan to Rohit , SIX , Glorious timing. This was on a length and well outside off , Sharma lifts it over long off with a straight bat Two slips in for McClenaghan as well. . 1.1 McClenaghan to Rohit , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Sharma inches forward to negotiate this one Mitchell McClenaghan , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Southee to Rohit , 1 run , friendly length delivery angling down leg , Sharma glances it deftly for fine leg to mop it up 0.5 Southee to Dhawan , 1 run , good length delivery on the stumps , Dhawan pushes it off the inside half of the bat , the ball dribbles away tobehind square on the on-side 0.4 Southee to Dhawan , no run , defended carefully to the leg-side 0.3 Southee to Rohit , 1 run , Jesse Ryder spills Sharma at second slip. This was back of a length and outside off , Sharma flays at it with the resultant thickish outside edge flying over second slip. The big man did well to propel himself upward but he eventually parried it away 0.2 Southee to Rohit , no run , fuller on middle now , Sharma props forward and nudges it to square leg 0.1 Southee to Rohit , no run , back of a length ball swerving in , Sharma is hit above his waist as he fails to defend it Rohit and Dhawan are at the crease. Rohit is on strike. Southee will open the attack Welcome back fellas. Can India 's batsmen finally click in unison to keep the series alive ? Let us unravel the answer. Dhawan and Rohit make their way out to the centre. The Indian openers have hitherto not got going in this New Zealand odyssey . Baz and Southee discuss battle plans.. Two slips in position . The Indian bowlers were led by the spin twins who bowled 20 overs between them and picked up 3 wickets for 94 runs. Rest of the bowling looked ordinary and were the reason why New Zealand got to 300. Now , up to the batting to once again chase down a mammoth total. It is the series at stake as well as the No.1 ranking. Join us back in a short while to see if India can be successful on the third occasion in this series . The last nine wickets fell for 125 runs. India must be pleased with the way they came back because at one stage it looked like the Kiwis would get somewhere around 350. Guptill and Williamson put on 153 runs between them. They batted sensibly , especially Guptill who started off cautiously before accelerating and getting to his 5th ODI ton. But , quick wickets in the middle halted the assault. Ronchi and Southee hit a few lusty blows to propel the target . 49.6 Shami to Southee , out Southee Run Out ! ! 1 run completed. New Zealand are bowled out but not before batting out their quota. Length delivery that is swatted to long on , Bennett was coming back for the second , Kohli throws it to Dhoni who flicks the ball onto the stumps to find Southee short. Southee run out ( Kohli/Dhoni ) 27 ( 23 ) [ 4s-1 6s-3 ] Shami to Southee , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 49.5 Shami to Southee , no run , full and outside off , Southee makes room and ca n't get bat on ball 49.4 Shami to Southee , no run , short delivery on the stumps , Southee shuffles across and looks to help it around but fails to connect 49.3 Shami to Southee , SIX , he is starting to middle it now , length delivery outside off , Southee comes down the track , makes room and lofts it for a maximum over long off 49.2 Shami to Southee , no run , slows this up around off-stump , Southee walks across his stumps and tries to scoop , he exposes the stumps and the ball misses off by a whisker 49.1 Shami to Bennett , 1 run , fuller and outside off , Bennett steers it to third man and gives the strike back to his senior partner 48.6 Bhuvneshwar to Southee , SIX , bonus runs for New Zealand , another short delivery , this time Southee stays back and deposits it into the crowd at deep mid wicket 48.5 Bhuvneshwar to Southee , no run , short delivery following Southee , who gives charge and toe ends the pull to Dhoni 48.4 Bhuvneshwar to Southee , FOUR , slower delivery outside off , Southee picks it up and swings across the line , he sends it couple of bounces and into the deep mid wicket fence. That brings up the 300 48.3 Bhuvneshwar to Bennett , 1 run , yorker on the stumps , Bennett squeezes it to mid wicket for a single 48.2 Bhuvneshwar to Bennett , no run , bumper around off , Bennett sits down and lets it go 48.1 Bhuvneshwar to Bennett , no run , slower bouncer outside off , Bennett watches it pass him 47.6 Shami to Southee , SIX , Dropped ! Full delivery around off-stump , Southee shuffles across and scoops it to fine leg , Bhuvneshwar runs around and gets behind it but only to palm it over the fence for a maximum 47.5 Shami to Bennett , 1 run , back of a length on off , Bennett chops it down to third man 47.4 Shami to Bennett , no run , bouncer on the body , Bennett ducks under it and lets it go through 47.3 Shami to Bennett , no run , run-out chance missed ! This was a good length ball on off-stump , Bennett defends it to the left of Shami , Southee wanted the single and was half way down , Shami has a go at the bowler 's end but does not hit , Southee dives back in but he was a goner had it hit Hamish Bennett , left handed bat , comes to the crease 47.2 Shami to McClenaghan , out Caught by Ravindra Jadeja ! ! A soft dismissal for the No. 10. It was a full delivery outside off , McClenaghan goes for the scoop once again , he realises that it is too far outside off and tries to reverse scoop , but only manages to lob it to backward point where Jadeja takes a good low catch. McClenaghan c Ravindra Jadeja b Shami 3 ( 6 ) Shami to McClenaghan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 47.1 Shami to McClenaghan , no run , length delivery outside off , McClenaghan walks across his stumps and tries the scoop , he does not connect 46.6 Bhuvneshwar to McClenaghan , 1 run , on a length just outside off , McClenaghan presses forward and eases it to deep extra cover 46.5 Bhuvneshwar to Southee , 1 run , slower delivery , Southee is deceived as he was early into the shot , he does well to adjust and knock it to the on-side 46.4 Bhuvneshwar to Southee , no run , bouncer on leg-stump , Southee backs away and ducks under it 46.3 Bhuvneshwar to Southee , no run , fuller and just outside off , Southee goes for a wild slog and gets an inside edge onto the boots , the ball rolls back to Dhoni 46.2 Bhuvneshwar to Southee , no run , now Bhuvneshwar bowls it short and on the stumps , Southee pulls and misses 46.1 Bhuvneshwar to McClenaghan , 1 run , good length ball around off , McClenaghan steers it wide of backward point and gets off strike Kohli was not too impressed with the wide call and he has a word with umpire Rod Tucker. He was animated in his discussion 45.6 Shami to Southee , 2 runs , drifts a full one on the pads , Southee leans forward and flicks it behind square for a couple 45.6 Shami to Southee , wide , bumper following Southee who was backing away , wide called as the the line was outside leg , poor call from the umpire 45.5 Shami to Southee , no run , short of length on the stumps , Southee swings across the line but does not make contact 45.4 Shami to Southee , no run , banged in half way down , Southee goes for the pull and end up getting a bottom edge onto his thigh pad , the ball rolls back to Shami 45.3 Shami to Southee , no run , again short and on off-stump , Southee makes room and looks to cut but does not connect as the ball goes past the outside edge 45.2 Shami to Southee , no run , back of a length outside off , Southee stands up and punches it to extra cover 45.1 Shami to Southee , no run , bouncer around off , Southee was looking to play the pull but decides against it and backs away Mohammed Shami [ 7.0-0-66-1 ] is back into the attack 44.6 Bhuvneshwar to Southee , 1 run , sliding onto the pads , Southee goes back and nurdles it to backward square leg 44.5 Bhuvneshwar to Southee , no run , length delivery outside off , Southee hangs back and works it to mid wicket 44.4 Bhuvneshwar to Southee , no run , fuller and outside off , Southee comes slightly forward and defends it back to the bowler 44.3 Bhuvneshwar to Southee , no run , pulls the length back on off , Southee goes back and turns it gently to mid wicket 44.2 Bhuvneshwar to McClenaghan , 1 run , on a length around off , McClenaghan knocks it to the off-side and gets off the mark 44.1 Bhuvneshwar to McClenaghan , no run , good length delivery outside off , McClenaghan dabs it to backward point Bhuvneshwar Kumar [ 6.0-0-32-1 ] is back into the attack Mitchell McClenaghan , left handed bat , comes to the crease 43.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Ronchi , out Caught by Rahane ! ! India are right back in the match. Looks like New Zealand will be bowled out here. This was quicker and on middle stump , Ronchi gets inside the line and looks to whip it , the ball goes off the top edge straight down Rahane 's throat at deep mid wicket. Ronchi c Rahane b Ravindra Jadeja 38 ( 20 ) [ 4s-3 6s-3 ] Ravindra Jadeja to Ronchi , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Tim Southee , right handed bat , comes to the crease 43.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Nathan McCullum , out Nathan McCullum Run Out ! ! A needless run when there are still six overs left. This flatter and just outside off , McCullum backs away and punches it to extra cover , he calls Ronchi for the single , Dhawan keeps his cool and throws the ball to Jadeja who takes the bails off. McCullum is well short of his ground. Still ca n't understand why did he go for that run. Nathan McCullum run out ( Dhawan/Ravindra Jadeja ) 1 ( 3 ) Ravindra Jadeja to Nathan McCullum , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Third umpire called for a run-out call against Nathan McCullum. He is OUT . 43.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Nathan McCullum , no run , slower and around off , McCullum pushes it to the right of Jadeja 43.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Ronchi , 1 run , pushed through on the stumps , Ronchi goes deep in the crease and works it to long on 43.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Nathan McCullum , 1 run , tossed up outside off , McCullum goes for the reverse sweep and gets it off the gloves to short third man 43.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Ronchi , 1 run , quicker and on middle , Ronchi hangs back and knocks it to long on Ravindra Jadeja [ 9.0-0-44-1 ] is back into the attack 42.6 Shami to Ronchi , 1 run , banged in short on off , Ronchi pulls it to deep square leg and retains the strike 42.5 Shami to Ronchi , SIX , its becoming too easy for Ronchi , another full toss which he does not miss out on , he lofts it straight down the ground for the second six of the over Nathan McCullum , right handed bat , comes to the crease 42.4 Shami to Ross Taylor , out Ross Taylor Run Out ! ! Rahane gets India another wicket. He keeps hitting the bulls-eye with ease. This was a fuller delivery outside off , Taylor drives it to extra cover , Rahane collects and has one-stump to aim , he does not miss as he hits the base to catch Taylor well short of his ground. Ross Taylor run out ( Rahane ) 17 ( 18 ) [ 4s-2 ] Shami to Ross Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 42.3 Shami to Ronchi , 1 run , too full and on middle , Ronchi pushes it to long on 42.2 Shami to Ronchi , SIX , poor stuff from Shami , a juicy full toss on off , Ronchi stays in the crease and flicks it into the second tier at backward square leg , a spectator puts down the catch 42.1 Shami to Ross Taylor , 1 run , full and on the stumps , Taylor presses forward and drives it to long on Mohammed Shami [ 6.0-0-51-1 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Raina to Ronchi , FOUR , quicker and outside off , Ronchi rocks back to cut , the ball flies off a thickish outside edge to the third man fence. A over that was looking good is spoilt by those last two deliveries 41.5 Raina to Ronchi , SIX , Ronchi is turning it on , tossed up outside off , he gets to the pitch of the ball and sends it sailing straight back over the bowlers head for a maximum 41.4 Raina to Ronchi , no run , pushed through outside off , Ronchi takes couple of steps down the track and cuts it to cover point 41.3 Raina to Ross Taylor , 1 run , quicker and targeting the stumps , Taylor hangs back and eases it to long on 41.2 Raina to Ronchi , 1 run , flighted on leg-stump , Ronchi goes back and nurdles it to backward square leg 41.1 Raina to Ross Taylor , 1 run , flatter and outside off , Taylor comes half forward and punches it to long on 40.6 Aaron to Ronchi , FOUR , excellent shot ! Aaron misses the yorker by couple of inches , Ronchi comes forward and squeezes the drive between extra cover and mid-off , the timing takes it to the fence 40.6 Aaron to Ronchi , wide , slower delivery down leg , Ronchi looks to scoop it but ca n't reach it and wide called 40.5 Aaron to Ronchi , 2 runs , pitched up outside off , Ronchi drives it wide of cover and goes for a quick single , the fielder has a shy and concedes the overthrow as there was no one backing up 40.4 Aaron to Ronchi , FOUR , bouncer angling in , Ronchi goes for the hook and gets a top edge , the ball goes high and behind Dhoni , who gives chase but ca n't get there in time to stop it from reaching the fence 40.3 Aaron to Ronchi , no run , touch short and just outside off , Ronchi chops the punch in front of cover 40.2 Aaron to Ross Taylor , 1 run , slower delivery on the stumps , Taylor reads it well and eases it down to long on 40.1 Aaron to Ross Taylor , FOUR , low full toss outside off , Taylor comes forward and gets a thick outside edge to the third man fence , the man was inside the circle 39.6 Raina to Ross Taylor , 1 run , slower and around off-stump , Taylor leans forward and nudges it wide of mid wicket , he sets off for a quick single , Jadeja releases the ball and a direct hit would have had Ronchi in trouble at the striker 's end Third umpire is called in for a run-out chance. Dhoni does not get hold off the ball. He knocks the bails off with his gloves. Ronchi survives 39.5 Raina to Ross Taylor , no run , tossed up on off , Taylor turns it to mid wicket 39.4 Raina to Ronchi , leg byes , 1 run , fired on leg-stump , Ronchi tries to flick but gets it off the pads 39.3 Raina to Ronchi , no run , turning onto the pads , Ronchi nudges it to short fine leg 39.2 Raina to Ronchi , no run , flighted on middle , Ronchi works it to mid wicket 39.1 Raina to Ronchi , no run , quicker and outside off , Ronchi goes for the cut but misses as the ball skids on Suresh Raina [ 2.0-0-12-0 ] is back into the attack The batting powerplay yielded 33 runs and 2 wickets 38.6 Aaron to Ronchi , 1 run , good length delivery on middle , Ronchi presses forward and punches it to long on Luke Ronchi , right handed bat , comes to the crease 38.5 Aaron to Brendon McCullum , out Caught by Ashwin ! ! Back to back ducks for the skipper. This was not a wicket taking delivery , short and sat up outside off , McCullum goes back and slaps the cut straight to Ashwin at cover point , he holds on to a smart catch. New Zealand just losing their way here. Brendon McCullum c Ashwin b Aaron 0 ( 3 ) Aaron to Brendon McCullum , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 38.4 Aaron to Brendon McCullum , no run , too full and on off , McCullum squeezes the drive to cover 38.3 Aaron to Brendon McCullum , no run , fuller and around off , McCullum drives and finds the man at cover 38.2 Aaron to Ross Taylor , 1 run , short delivery outside off , Taylor rolls his wrists and pulls it along the turf to backward square leg 38.1 Aaron to Ross Taylor , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Taylor goes back and taps it off the outside half of the bat to the off-side Varun Aaron [ 5.0-0-34-0 ] is back into the attack 37.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Ross Taylor , 1 run , floated on middle and leg , Taylor gets to the pitch and pushes it to long on 37.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Ross Taylor , no run , slower and on the stumps , Taylor gets behind it and blocks it to the leg-side 37.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Ross Taylor , FOUR , deft touch from Taylor , pushed through outside off , Taylor stays in the crease and late cuts to the third man fence 37.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Ross Taylor , no run , tossed up on off , Taylor comes slightly forward and defends it Brendon McCullum , right handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now and India will feel slightly relieved now after getting rid of Guptill and Anderson. But , still plenty of batting left for New Zealand and they should be able to get above 300 easily . 37.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , out Caught by Rahane ! ! It takes a stunning catch to get rid of the centurion. This was a flighted delivery around off , Guptill gets down on his knees and sweeps it to deep mid wicket , Rahane was the man who was slightly inside the ropes but judges it well as he runs to his left , times his jump and hangs on to a stunner with both hands. Guptill c Rahane b Ravindra Jadeja 111 ( 129 ) [ 4s-12 6s-2 ] Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 37.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , wide , fired down the leg-side , Guptill lets it go and wide called 37.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Ross Taylor , 1 run , slows this up on off , Taylor comes forward and knocks it to the off-side for a single. Dhoni is not happy with Rohit for conceding the single to the new batsman Ravindra Jadeja [ 8.0-0-37-0 ] is back into the attack 36.6 Shami to Guptill , no run , bit short and outside off , Guptill extends his arms and drives it to extra cover 36.5 Shami to Guptill , FOUR , Shami misses the yorker as the ball goes on the full , Guptill latches onto it as he swats it wide of long on for a boundary 36.4 Shami to Ross Taylor , 1 run , fuller and on off-stump , Taylor pushes it past the bowler and scampers through for the single 36.3 Shami to Guptill , 1 run , right in the blockhole , Guptill squeezes it towards point and takes a quick single 36.2 Shami to Guptill , SIX , wrong length from Shami , short and around off , Guptill rocks back and pulls it powerfully over the deep mid wicket fence for a maximum 36.1 Shami to Guptill , no run , good length ball just outside off , Guptill drives it on the up straight to extra cover Mohammed Shami [ 5.0-0-39-1 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Ashwin to Guptill , 1 run , at last gets the single and reaches his 5th ODI hundred , his first against India , floated outside off , Guptill eases down the ground to long off. Guptill is elated as he takes off his helmet and acknowledges his team-mates and the crowd 35.5 Ashwin to Guptill , no run , fuller and outside off , Guptill drives it to cover , still looking for the single 35.4 Ashwin to Guptill , no run , tossed up on off , Guptill gets inside the line and nudges it to square leg , still ca n't get the single 35.3 Ashwin to Guptill , no run , punches it back to Ashwin off the front foot 35.2 Ashwin to Guptill , no run , another slower one around off , Guptill turns it gently to mid wicket 35.1 Ashwin to Guptill , no run , flighted on middle , Guptill works it to mid wicket , Jadeja dives and stops the single from being taken 34.6 Bhuvneshwar to Ross Taylor , no run , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , carefully defended 34.5 Bhuvneshwar to Guptill , 1 run , A chance for a run-out and India mess it up again. This was pitched up and outside off , Guptill bunts it to extra cover and hares across for a single. Rahane 's throw was inaccurate and Gutill heaves a huge sigh of relief 34.4 Bhuvneshwar to Guptill , 2 runs , length ball on middle which is turned away to mid wicket 34.3 Bhuvneshwar to Guptill , no run , fullish on off , pushed gently to cover 34.2 Bhuvneshwar to Guptill , FOUR , back to back boundaries ! What a way to inaugurate the batting powerplay ! This was also short but just outside off , Guptill pulls it powerfully , bisecting the two fielders in the deep 34.1 Bhuvneshwar to Guptill , FOUR , Bhuvneshwar invests in a bouncer , Guptill rocks back and pulls it away to the fine leg fence Bhuvneshwar Kumar [ 5.0-0-21-1 ] is back into the attack NZ opt for the Batting Powerplay . 33.6 Ashwin to Ross Taylor , no run , quicker on middle and leg , Taylor turns it towards square leg Ross Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 33.5 Ashwin to Corey Anderson , out Bowled ! ! Ashwin finally bags his first wicket of the series. This was a 95 kph darter hurled in on middle , Anderson seeks to cut it but is comprehensive beaten by pace. The Indians are elated , the power-hitter walks back forlornly. Kohli at first slip pumps his fists in joy. Corey Anderson b Ashwin 8 ( 5 ) [ 6s-1 ] Ashwin to Corey Anderson , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 33.4 Ashwin to Guptill , 1 run , pushed down the ground to long off 33.3 Ashwin to Corey Anderson , 1 run , dug in short now , Anderson plays a dismissive pull that bounces before the man at deep mid wicket 33.2 Ashwin to Corey Anderson , SIX , BANG ! Anderson does not need any sighters. This was tossed up on middle and leg , Anderson takes the aerial route and wallops it over long on for a 76 metre six 33.1 Ashwin to Corey Anderson , no run , spinning down leg , Anderson 's glance finds short fine 32.6 Shami to Corey Anderson , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Anderson goes on the backfoot and knocks it in front of mid-wicket to open his account Corey Anderson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 32.5 Shami to Williamson , out Bowled ! ! In a bid to manufacture a shot , Williamson perishes as Shami strikes the timber. This was nice and full on off , Williamson aims to go big over the off-side by backing away , he fails to make any connection , the ball hits the off-stump. Subdued celebrations in the Indian camp.Williamson b Shami 65 ( 74 ) [ 4s-4 6s-1 ] Shami to Williamson , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 32.4 Shami to Guptill , 1 run , shortish again and on the stumps , nice swivel on the back foot as Guptill pulls it behind square 32.3 Shami to Guptill , no run , shortish and outside off , Guptill aims to ramp it over but it does not come to pass 32.2 Shami to Guptill , FOUR , rasping shot ! Shami drags his length back , Guptill plays an instinctive pull off the back foot , the ball races away to the deep mid-wicket fence. New Zealand are motoring along 32.1 Shami to Guptill , no run , back of a length ball seaming past the outside edge of Guptill as he misses the drive 31.6 Ashwin to Guptill , 1 run , back of a length on middle , Guptill goes on the back foot and nurdles it past mid-wicket again 31.5 Ashwin to Williamson , 1 run , spinning in on middle and leg , Williamson helps it across to deep mid wicket 31.4 Ashwin to Guptill , 1 run , nice and full on the stumps , Guptill leans and drives it to long on 31.3 Ashwin to Guptill , no run , defended to the leg-side from the crease 31.2 Ashwin to Williamson , 1 run , hurdled in very full on middle and leg , jammed out past mid-wicket 31.1 Ashwin to Williamson , no run , quicker on middle and leg , Williamson flicks but picks out square leg 30.6 Shami to Guptill , FOUR , a tad fuller and outside off , Guptill leans forward and drills it down the ground , imparting enough impetus for the ball to reach the long on fence 30.5 Shami to Guptill , no run , shortish and outside off , Guptill ducks under and takes evasive action 30.4 Shami to Guptill , SIX , Trademark lofted shot from Guptill ! This was a length ball on middle , Guptill launches it several rows over the long-on fence. Clean strike that . 30.3 Shami to Guptill , no run , fuller length delivery on off , driven to cover 30.2 Shami to Williamson , 1 run , Dropped ! Raina at mid-wicket is the culprit. This was back of a length and outside off , Williamson committs himself to the pull , he does not middle it as well as he would have liked , the ball went wide of Raina. He managed a dive but could not cling on to it 30.1 Shami to Williamson , FOUR , back of a length delivery outside off , Williamson creates extensive room and slaps it through cover Mohammed Shami [ 3.0-0-18-0 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Ashwin to Guptill , no run , fullish on off , Guptill props forward and bunts it to cover 29.5 Ashwin to Guptill , no run , quicker on middle , worked away to mid-wicket 29.4 Ashwin to Williamson , 1 run , driven between cover and point for a single 29.3 Ashwin to Guptill , 1 run , Guptill pushes it to point from the crease 29.2 Ashwin to Guptill , 2 runs , length delivery down leg , Guptill glances it away to deep fine leg , Bhuvi from short fine runs back and reels it in 29.1 Ashwin to Williamson , 1 run , flatter on middle , driven to long on 28.6 Aaron to Guptill , 2 runs , length delivery on middle and leg , Guptill flicks it neatly behind square on the leg-side to earn a brace 28.5 Aaron to Guptill , no run , speared in full on middle , Guptill drives it to the on-side 28.4 Aaron to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length on middle , Williamson suffles across and clips it away to behind square leg 28.3 Aaron to Williamson , no run , seeing Williamson to back away , Aaron bowls a slower ball , Williamson makes the late adjustment to steer it to point 28.2 Aaron to Williamson , FOUR , length delivery on middle and leg , Williamson frees his arms with a lofted drive over long on , that was right out from the meat of the bat 28.1 Aaron to Williamson , no run , good length delivery homing in on off , Williamson defends it back to the bowler 27.6 Ashwin to Guptill , no run , pushed through quicker on middle , Guptill goes on the back foot and taps it to mid-wicket 27.5 Ashwin to Williamson , 1 run , nice and full on the stumps , Williamson props forward and bunts it to long on 27.4 Ashwin to Guptill , 1 run , quicker on middle , Guptill turns it past a diving mid on 27.3 Ashwin to Guptill , no run , defended back to the bowler 27.2 Ashwin to Guptill , no run , worked away to the leg-side 27.1 Ashwin to Williamson , 1 run , 3 consecutive fifties for Williamson in this series. This was back of a length on middle and leg , Williamson goes on the backfoot and nudges it away through mid-wicket Ravichandran Ashwin [ 5.0-0-26-0 ] is back into the attack 26.6 Aaron to Guptill , FOUR , half tracker outside off , Guptill pounces on to it as he rocks back and slashes it with all his might , the ball scurries away to the deep extra cover boundary , not even Kohli can cut it off 26.5 Aaron to Williamson , 1 run , length delivery on middle , Williamson wristily turns it in front of mid wicket and races across for a rapid run 26.4 Aaron to Guptill , 1 run , fired in full on middle , Guptill whisks it away to mid wicket , where Raina misfields , leaking a single 26.3 Aaron to Guptill , FOUR , back of a length delivery on the hips , Guptill picks it up from there and deposits it to deep mid wicket fence with an uppish flick 26.2 Aaron to Guptill , no run , pitched up and outside off , Guptill chips it uppishly but the ball bounces before the man at mid-off 26.1 Aaron to Williamson , 1 run , too full and straight from Aaron , Williamson tucks it away behind square on the on-side Varun Aaron [ 3.0-0-16-0 ] is back into the attack 25.6 Raina to Guptill , 2 runs , shortish and on the stumps , Guptill brings out a pull , the man at deep square leg showcases his football skills and cuts it off. Otherwise , that would have been a boundary 25.5 Raina to Guptill , no run , fuller and on middle , pushed to mid-on 25.4 Raina to Williamson , 1 run , worked away through mid-wicket 25.3 Raina to Williamson , FOUR , spinning down leg , Williamson helps it across to the long leg fence to prop up the hundred of the partnership 25.2 Raina to Guptill , 1 run , fullish and on the stumps , driven to long on 25.1 Raina to Guptill , no run , flicked to square leg 24.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Williamson , no run , driven to cover 24.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , 1 run , length delivery just outside off , Guptill runs it away to short third man off an angled bat 24.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Williamson , 1 run , fullish and on the stumps , eased to long off 24.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , 1 run , directed down the turf to long on 24.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , FOUR , Guptill collects his 19th ODI fifty in some style. This was on a length on middle , Guptill bends down and pulls it to the backward square leg fence 24.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Williamson , 1 run , flighted delivery just outside off , Williamson pushes it to long off 23.6 Raina to Guptill , no run , quicker on middle and leg , Guptill camps in the crease and defends it behind square leg 23.5 Raina to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle at 93kph , punched down to long on 23.4 Raina to Guptill , 1 run , hint of spin down leg , Guptill tucks it away to deep mid wicket 23.3 Raina to Williamson , 1 run , Williamson sashays down the track and directs it to long on 23.2 Raina to Guptill , 1 run , pitched up and just outside off , Guptill drives it to long off off the front foot 23.1 Raina to Guptill , no run , quicker on middle , Guptill hangs back and pushes it towards mid-wicket Suresh Raina , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 22.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , 1 run , shortish and on the stumps , Guptill goes on the back foot and pulls it away to deep mid wicket 22.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , no run , darter on middle and leg , glanced straight to the fielder at short fine leg 22.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , no run , flatter and skidding on to the batsman , who inside-edges the attempted defence onto his pads , the ball would have been sliding down leg if there was no inside snick 22.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , no run , pushed through quicker on the stumps , defended to the off-side 22.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Williamson , 1 run , dug in short just outside off , Williamson late cuts it behind point 22.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Williamson , no run , fullish and hurled on off , driven back to the bowler 21.6 Ashwin to Williamson , 1 run , flatter on middle , milked to long on off the front foot 21.5 Ashwin to Guptill , 1 run , quicker on the stumps , worked away to deep mid wicket 21.4 Ashwin to Williamson , 1 run , Williamson turns it in front of mid-wicket to pinch a single 21.3 Ashwin to Williamson , no run , defended down the pitch 21.2 Ashwin to Williamson , SIX , nimble footwork. Williamson backs away , advances down the pitch and lofts this one over deep extra cover 21.1 Ashwin to Guptill , 1 run , nice floaty delivery on middle and leg , Guptill presses forward and taps it in front of mid wicket 20.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , 1 run , on a length on middle and leg , Guptill clips it away through mid-wicket 20.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , no run , Guptill comes on the front foot and pushes it to the off-side 20.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Williamson , 1 run , 97kph fizzer on off , Williamson shimmies down the track and squeezes it out to long on 20.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , 1 run , fired on middle , driven to long on 20.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , FOUR , exquisite timing from Guptill. Guptill goes leg side of the ball and lifts it between extra cover and long off with effortless ease 20.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Williamson , 1 run , quicker back of a length just outside off , cut away square of the wicket on the off-side 19.6 Ashwin to Guptill , no run , pushed through quicker on middle , Guptill flicks it to square leg 19.5 Ashwin to Guptill , no run , quicker on the stumps , worked away to the leg-side 19.4 Ashwin to Guptill , no run , on a length on middle , turned away to mid-wicket 19.3 Ashwin to Williamson , 1 run , eased down the ground to long on 19.2 Ashwin to Williamson , no run , Ashwin tosses one up , played back to the bowler 19.1 Ashwin to Williamson , 2 runs , Williamson shimmies down the track , takes it on the full and hammers it to long on Time for a Drinks break. The powerplay has followed the blueprint that McCullum mentioned about in the toss. Following the bright start given by the openers , Williamson has infused solidity into the innings. The partnership between Guptill and Williamson is currently worth 60 runs. They are in the zone to carry on. Meanwhile , the tag team of Ashwin and Jadeja are racing through their overs . 18.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Williamson , 1 run , Williamson fetches it from outside off and tucks it away to mid wicket for a single 18.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Williamson , no run , length ball outside off , Williamson stays in the crease and runs it away to short third man 18.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Williamson , no run , Williamson gets forward and works it straight to the fielder at mid-wicket 18.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , 1 run , speared in on middle and 95kph , pushed to long on 18.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , no run , defended to the leg-side 18.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , 2 runs , dug in fractionally short and outside off , cut away to deep backward point off the back foot 17.6 Ashwin to Guptill , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Guptill goes on the back foot and works it away to mid wicket 17.5 Ashwin to Williamson , 1 run , quicker and just outside off , Williamson places it in front of point and calls his partner through for a rapid single 17.4 Ashwin to Williamson , FOUR , flatter and just outside off , Williamson bends down and illustrates a skillful sweep behind square leg 17.3 Ashwin to Guptill , 1 run , pushed through quicker on middle , driven down to long on 17.2 Ashwin to Guptill , no run , turning down leg , Guptill glances but fails to beat Bhuvi at short fine leg 17.1 Ashwin to Williamson , 1 run , flatter on middle , bunted to long on 16.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , no run , length ball close to off , steered away to short third man again 16.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Williamson , 1 run , speared in around off , Williamson drops it in front short third man and completes a well judged single 16.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Williamson , no run , mush straighter , blocked to the leg-side 16.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Williamson , no run , quicker outside off , Williamson looks to dab it away but can not beat third man , who is in the circle 16.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , 1 run , 94kph fizzer on middle , Guptill hangs back and punches it to long on 16.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Williamson , 1 run , on a length on off , Williamson turns it away towards mid wicket 15.6 Ashwin to Guptill , no run , flatter on middle , Guptill inches forward and pushes it back to the bowler 15.5 Ashwin to Williamson , 1 run , milked down the turf to long on 15.4 Ashwin to Williamson , no run , on a length and outside off , Williamson goes for the drive but only manages an edge that trickles to the off-side 15.3 Ashwin to Guptill , 1 run , pushed through quicker on middle and off , drilled to long on 15.2 Ashwin to Guptill , no run , defended to the leg-side 15.1 Ashwin to Williamson , 1 run , fired in on middle , eased along the ground to long on 14.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , no run , fuller and flatter outside off , defended to cover again 14.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , no run , driven to cover but straight to the fielder 14.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Williamson , 1 run , Williamson advances down the track , checks his shot and chips it in front of the man at long off. Initially , he was looking to go big over cover 14.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , 1 run , hurled in on middle with a smidge of turn , Guptill dabs it in front of point 14.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , no run , flatter on middle , pushed back to the bowler 14.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length on middle and leg , Williamson goes on the back foot and whisks it away to deep mid wicket 13.6 Ashwin to Guptill , no run , fires it in just outside off , Guptill defends it to cover with minimal footwork 13.5 Ashwin to Guptill , no run , back of a length on middle , Guptill camps on the back foot and punches it back to the bowler 13.4 Ashwin to Williamson , 1 run , gives this some air on middle and leg , clipped away through mid-wicket 13.3 Ashwin to Williamson , no run , flatter on middle , defended back to the bowler 13.2 Ashwin to Guptill , 1 run , skidding on to the batsman , who opens the face of the bat and runs it wide of cover for a single 13.1 Ashwin to Guptill , no run , pushed through quicker on off , blocked back to the bowler off the back foot Ravichandran Ashwin , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 12.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Williamson , 2 runs , back of a length and outside off , Williamson steers it away to third man for a brace 12.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , 1 run , on a length and outside off , Guptill dabs it away behind point 12.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , no run , flatter and straighter , Guptill defends it calmly 12.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Williamson , 1 run , hurled outside off with no hint of turn , pushed to long on 12.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , 1 run , pushed through quicker on middle and leg , nudged away to square leg 12.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , no run , pushed to cover off the front foot 11.6 Aaron to Williamson , no run , 143kph short of length delivery slated across , Williamson lets it pass to the keeper 11.5 Aaron to Williamson , no run , on a length and outside off , driven straight to the fielder at point 11.4 Aaron to Williamson , no run , bouncer on the stumps , Williamson sinks beneath it 11.3 Aaron to Guptill , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Guptill drops it in front of point and calls Williamson through for another suicidal single , Rahane swooped on the ball and under-armed a flick , missed. Would 've been close had that hit. New Zealand 's running in the last 15 minutes has been very dicey 11.2 Aaron to Guptill , FOUR , Was that a half-chance ? Rahane was the man at covers , diving in vain. This was pitched up and outside off , Guptill drives it on the rise , gets it past Rahane and directs it to the deep extra cover fence 11.1 Aaron to Williamson , leg byes , 1 run , length delivery down leg again , Williamson does not connect the flick , the duo pinch a leg-bye though 11.1 Aaron to Williamson , wide , ill-directed down leg , the umpire deems it a wide 10.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Williamson , 1 run , hurrying on to the batsman outside off , Williamson pushes it between cover and point 10.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , 1 run , 93kph back of a length fizzer on middle , allowing Guptill to go on the backfoot and punch it down to long on 10.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Williamson , 1 run , a nugetty nurdle to square leg for a single 10.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Williamson , no run , back of a length and outside off , Williamson rocks back and unfurls a solid punch but fails to beat Rahane at cover 10.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , 1 run , skidding on off at 92kph , Guptill whisks it away wide of cover 10.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Guptill , no run , quicker on off , Guptill defends it to cover from the crease Ravindra Jadeja , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack Early signs of change of pace. Jadeja comes into the fray . 9.6 Aaron to Guptill , 1 run , an opportunity for a run-out but Jadeja fails to hit the bulls-eye after collecting the ball. This was on a length on middle and leg , Guptill turns it away in front of mid-wicket and pinches a risky single , has to dive to make it. Jadeja gives vent to his despair. This would have also been close had Jadeja hit the sticks . 9.5 Aaron to Guptill , no run , 143kph short of length delivery on off , Guptill hops up , fends it in front of point , hunts for a swift single but decides against it at the last second 9.4 Aaron to Guptill , no run , 146kph fuller one on middle and leg , driven straight to the fielder at mid-on 9.3 Aaron to Guptill , 2 runs , Guptill leans forward and tucks it away behind square on the on-side for a couple 9.2 Aaron to Guptill , no run , 144kph fullish delivery on off , Guptill inches forward and pushes it back to the bowler , who is working up good steam 9.1 Aaron to Williamson , 1 run , 143kph good length delivery on middle , Williamson hangs back and pushes it to mid on 8.6 Bhuvneshwar to Guptill , no run , back of a length and on off , Guptill camps on the back foot and blocks it to cover 8.5 Bhuvneshwar to Williamson , 1 run , good length delivery on off , Williamson turns it to mid on and hustles across for a quick single. A direct throw from the mid-on fielder could have landed Williamson in trouble 8.4 Bhuvneshwar to Williamson , no run , Bhuvneshwar now ventures full in the corridor , Williamson gives him free access to Dhoni 8.3 Bhuvneshwar to Williamson , no run , slightly back of a length and outside off again , Williamson stands tall and punches it to cover , rather meekly though 8.2 Bhuvneshwar to Guptill , 1 run , good length ball outside off , Guptill dabs it down to third man 8.1 Bhuvneshwar to Guptill , no run , good length delivery shaping in on middle , Guptill inches forward and blocks it back to the bowler 7.6 Aaron to Guptill , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Guptill steers it past a diving backward point with an angled bat , the fumble from Dhawan hands Guptill the single 7.5 Aaron to Guptill , 2 runs , fullish and on off , check-driven past cover for a brace 7.5 Aaron to Guptill , wide , the effort ball from Aaron goes awry as the umpire calls him out for height. This was banged in very short and sailing into the keeper 's mitts as Guptill ducks under in search of shelter 7.4 Aaron to Guptill , no run , similar length on middle , Guptill defends it just wide of point 7.3 Aaron to Williamson , 1 run , slightly short of length and outside off , Williamson committs himself to a full blooded cut , the ball goes off the toe end of the bat to third man 7.2 Aaron to Guptill , 1 run , back of a length and close to off , Guptill chops it to fine leg off a healthy inside edge. Guptill must thank his lucky stars that he did not drag it back 7.1 Aaron to Guptill , no run , 138kph back of a length delivery angled across , now Guptill slashes hard only to miss Varun Aaron , right-arm medium , comes into the attack Aaron replaces Shami. . 6.6 Bhuvneshwar to Williamson , no run , slightly back of a length delivery angled across , Williamson cuts and misses 6.5 Bhuvneshwar to Guptill , leg byes , 1 run , back of a length delivery down leg , Guptill misses the flick again , the ball brushes the pads and squirts away towards fine leg 6.4 Bhuvneshwar to Guptill , no run , fullish and outside off , Guptill shoulders arms 6.4 Bhuvneshwar to Guptill , wide , Oops , Bhuvi loses his radar as he splays it down leg , Guptill 's attempted flick had no chance of reaching it , Dhoni flings himself to his left to grab it 6.3 Bhuvneshwar to Guptill , no run , beautiful delivery ! This was pitched up and holding its line just a smidge outside off , Guptill ends up all beaten 6.2 Bhuvneshwar to Guptill , no run , pitched up and moving away outside off , left alone wisely 6.1 Bhuvneshwar to Guptill , no run , slightly back of a length and on middle , Guptill hangs back and defends it to the leg-side 5.6 Shami to Williamson , no run , Shami now invests in a back of a length indipper , Williamson fails to clip it away. The muted appeal is shooted down since the ball did too much. To add to that , the height was an issue as well 5.5 Shami to Williamson , no run , much better from Shami as he lands this on off and gets it to jag away , Williamson is up to the challenge as he lets it pass to the keeper 5.4 Shami to Williamson , no run , back of a length and outside off , pushed to cover 5.3 Shami to Guptill , leg byes , 1 run , slightly back of a length on middle and leg , Guptill does not connect the flick , the duo pinch a leg-bye though 5.2 Shami to Guptill , FOUR leg byes , filthy length delivery ill-directed down leg , Guptill helps it across to the long leg fence , it hit the thigh pad and there was no bat , confirmed by the umpire . 5.1 Shami to Williamson , 1 run , short and on the stumps , pulled down to fine leg for a single 4.6 Bhuvneshwar to Williamson , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Williamson plays the pull despite not getting into a good position , luckily the ball bounces before the man at deep backward square leg 4.5 Bhuvneshwar to Williamson , no run , pushed away square towards point 4.4 Bhuvneshwar to Williamson , no run , length delivery just outside off , blocked back to the bowler 4.3 Bhuvneshwar to Williamson , no run , Bhuvneshwar greets Williamson with a bouncer , Williamson sinks below it Kane Williamson , right handed bat , comes to the crease 4.2 Bhuvneshwar to Ryder , out Bowled ! ! Impressive response from Bhuvi. Another big innings for Ryder goes begging. This was slightly back of a length and on middle and leg , Ryder seeks to work it away to the leg side in vain , the ball kisses the pad and strikes the top of middle to dislodge the bails. Ryder b Bhuvneshwar 20 ( 12 ) [ 4s-4 ] Bhuvneshwar to Ryder , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 4.1 Bhuvneshwar to Ryder , FOUR , poor 'hit me ' ball , short and wide outside off , Ryder gets on top of the bounce , opens the face of the bat a touch and punches it square of the wicket on the off-side 3.6 Shami to Guptill , no run , on a length and outside off , Guptill elects to shoulder arms 3.5 Shami to Guptill , no run , short and outside off , left alone to the keeper 3.4 Shami to Ryder , 1 run , nudged away to fine leg 3.3 Shami to Ryder , no run , slightly back of a length and outside off , Ryder plays and misses now 3.2 Shami to Ryder , FOUR , length delivery down leg , glanced away to fine leg for another boundary 3.1 Shami to Ryder , FOUR , fullish and outside off , Ryder slaps it through cover , Ryder is in no mood to sit back and watch the Indian bowlers dictate terms 2.6 Bhuvneshwar to Ryder , 1 run , pushed to point for a single 2.5 Bhuvneshwar to Ryder , FOUR , shortish and outside off , Ryder flays at it with the resultant thickish outside edge racing to the third man fence 2.4 Bhuvneshwar to Ryder , no run , back of a length ball on off , blocked to mid-off 2.3 Bhuvneshwar to Guptill , leg byes , 1 run , short of length delivery on middle , Guptill is late on to the pull , the ball trickles off the thigh pad towards square leg 2.2 Bhuvneshwar to Guptill , no run , fullish and nibbling away late , Guptill fishes with his feet paralysed and watches the ball zip past his outside edge 2.1 Bhuvneshwar to Guptill , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Guptill defends it with minimal feet movement 1.6 Shami to Ryder , no run , good length delivery angled across , Ryder swings and misses , Dhoni dives and takes it cleanly 1.6 Shami to Ryder , 5 wides , Shami gets carried away with the bounce on pitch. He bounces it mid-way down the pitch , ill-directed down leg , the ball loops over the batsman , evades Dhoni as well. Five bonus runs for the Kiwis 1.5 Shami to Guptill , 1 run , marginally back of a length and outside off , Guptill steers it to third man from the crease 1.4 Shami to Ryder , 1 run , clipped away to fine leg for a run 1.3 Shami to Guptill , leg byes , 1 run , That is an absolute snorter ! Shami spears it in short and sends it clattering into Guptill 's hemlet. Guptill was palpably late on the pull/hook , the ball ricochets off the helmet fine and the duo sneak in a leg bye 1.2 Shami to Guptill , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Guptill hangs back , dabs it to point , screams No to his partner 1.1 Shami to Ryder , 1 run , short of length delivery hurrying on to Ryder , who hops up and fiddles it tentatively to square leg Mohammed Shami , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Shami takes the other new ball with 2 slips as support . 0.6 Bhuvneshwar to Guptill , no run , fullish and homing in on off , Guptill inches forward and drives it to mid-off 0.5 Bhuvneshwar to Guptill , no run , slightly back of a length and on off with no lateral movement , Guptill bunts it to cover from the crease 0.4 Bhuvneshwar to Guptill , no run , good length delivery on off , Guptill taps it to the off-side 0.3 Bhuvneshwar to Guptill , FOUR , another shoddy delivery and put away deftly. This was a length ball down leg , Guptill glanes it away to the fine leg fence 0.2 Bhuvneshwar to Guptill , no run , slightly back of a length and on off , Guptill blocks it and says no to his partner 0.1 Bhuvneshwar to Guptill , FOUR , far from a auspicious start for Bhuvneshwar as he delivers a loose half tracker outside off , Guptill rocks back and stabs it between cover and point , the ball whistles away to the fence Guptill and Ryder are at the crease. Guptill is on strike. Bhuvneshwar will open the attack The Kiwi openers make they way out to the middle. Bhuvi with the new cherry. Two slips in position. He will be bowling into a mild breeze Suresh Raina has passed a late fitness test today morning and has been rendered fit to play.. He was also seen fielding at slips during the practise session ahead of the game . Brendon McCullum : 'We played two excellent games of cricket. We have to replicate the same blue print. We would have bowled first as well. Hamish Bennett comes in for Kyle. We have gone for extra pace today. There seems to be little more in this wicket.' MS Dhoni : 'We had a day of practise. The batsmen have got starts , they have not been able to convert it into big partnerships. We are looking to bowl first. We have Varun in place of Ishant. He has come back after two years. He has worked hard on his fitness. He is injury-prone but can bowl quicker than others.' Pitch report by Craig McMillan : 'In the four years since Eden park has got redeveloped , the side batting first has struggled. The ground has a even covering of grass. When New Zealand played West Indies a couple of weeks ago they got bowled out for 156. It is a hard surface. There will be pace and bounce. The fast bowlers are going to enjoy this pitch. The boundaries are a hot topic in Eden. Hitting towards third man and fine leg is just 47 metres. The square boundaries are measured at 63 metres.' Teams : India ( Playing XI ) : Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , MS Dhoni ( w/c ) , Suresh Raina , Ravindra Jadeja , Ravichandran Ashwin , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Mohammed Shami , Varun Aaron New Zealand ( Playing XI ) : Martin Guptill , Jesse Ryder , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( w ) , Nathan McCullum , Tim Southee , Mitchell McClenaghan , Hamish Bennett India have won the toss and have opted to field Meanwhile , the forcast is bright and promising. The crowd is building up at Eden Park. As many as 22000 tickets were sold yesterday night. Right then , it is official that Aaron replaces Ishant. For New Zealand , Hamish Bennett comes in for Kyle Mills . For India , it 's time to go hard or to go down as their Number 1 ranking is also on the line. Hello and welcome to the third ODI between India and New Zealand at Eden Park , where India will meet their first drop-in pitch of this series. With Suresh Raina sustaining a damaged tissue on his elbow , Ambati Rayudu is expected to get a look in. Speculations are also rife that Aaron might replace Ishant , who has been guilty of spraying the ball all around the shop. Toss and team information coming up in a jiffy. Do stay tuned , friends. . Under fire at 0-2 down , Team India are on the brink of surrendering the series to New Zealand after having faltered in two successive chases. Everything has went swimmingly well for Brendon McCullum 's soldiers. The batsmen have made runs , the bowlers have struck at crucial junctures , the fielding has been nothing short of razor-sharp. The hosts will leave no stone unturned to seal the series before the last two fixtures . Preview : With India 's tour to New Zealand having started in the worst possible start with two consecutive defeats , the visitors need to regroup quickly and find the right combination as they go into a must-win match against a gutsy New Zealand in the third one-dayer. Down 0-2 and having lost the world no. 1 tag , the Indian team would be desperate to make amends and stamp their authority in what will be their last chance to make a come back into the five-match series . India : A loss for Dhoni 's men tomorrow will result in their second consecutive series loss after South Africa outside the subcontinent. This after a string of performances that saw them not lose a series for a considerable amount of time. The visitors lost the first ODI at Napier by 24 runs and then went down in the second one-dayer by 15 runs ( D/L method ) at Hamilton , which dethroned India from the number one ranking in the ODIs. Overall , Dhoni and Co. have lost four of their last five One-dayers , all of which were played outside the sub-continent. This has undoubtedly opened up a number of points for the concerned team to ponder upon . Indian skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's preference to chase , opting to bowl first in both matches so far , has back-fired so far. The Indians have looked to contain the batsmen in the middle of the innings before restricting the damage in the death overs , but this strategy has not come out well. It is because not many wickets have fallen until the 35th over. Only three wickets fell before the 35th over in Napier , with Kane Williamson and Ross Taylor batting since the eighth over. It was much the similar case in Hamilton . R Ashwin has not taken a single wicket in the last two ODIs. But the blame does n't lie with him alone , since Dhoni uses his main bowlers in short bursts and makes them bowl during the powerplays as well as death overs. If the idea is to contain runs rather than taking wickets , it is precisely where the Indian bowling is failing. Ashwin has conceded runs at 5.89 per over in the last five matches , while Ishant Sharma ( 6 wickets ) has conceded at 6.12 per over in four games . Ravindra Jadeja ( 3 wickets ) has conceded at 6 per over , while Bhuvneshwar Kumar ( 2 wickets ) has played only three matches and gone for 5.73 per over. Mohammad Shami is by far the most expensive bowler , giving away runs at 6.70 , but that is negated by his ability to take wickets -- 16 in five matches . There 's not much better news on the batting front as well. The openers -- Shikhar Dhawan and Rohit Sharma -- have produced their best opening stand in the last four ODIs on foreign soil , worth a meagre 22 runs. There has been a marked difference in the manner they have performed , both as a pair and as individuals , ever since India finished their home leg of this 2013-14 season. While they played handsome hands with some regularity in chases of 300-plus at home , in South Africa and now here in New Zealand , they have struggled to find the optimum balance between attacking stroke-play and curbing their natural instincts to give the team a solid start . At number four , Ajinkya Rahane has been impressive in patches in the games so far and it must have been a relief for the team to see someone other than Virat Kohli or Dhoni scoring runs and also standing up to the rivals. Suresh Raina is a doubt to play in the do-or-die encounter as he has injured his elbow during a training session. Whilst batting in the nets , Raina picked up a knock on his left arm , treated with ice-packs and heavily bandaged. But if he is able to pick his bat , he is expected to play , in what is arguably a make-or-break game for him . With the series on the line here , Dhoni must re-think of the playing XI with Ambati Rayudu , Stuart Binny , Amit Mishra , Ishwar Pandey and Varun Aaron sitting on the bench . Key Players : Virat Kohli has , undenaiably been India 's best player - but even he has not been able to help the team out of the trouble the bowlers seem to get them into. If the bowlers do not pull up their socks and put on a decent show , India will need atleast a couple more Kohlis to stem the rot . New Zealand : After a disappointing tour of Bangladesh late last year , everything seems to be working for New Zealand , playing at home. First they decimated West Indies and then , much to everyone 's surprise , are just one win away from taking an invincible 3-0 lead over world champions India in the five-match series . Home advantage has been a key factor in New Zealand 's success but few expected them to dominate India like they did in Napier and Hamilton. Their batsmen have piled on the runs and their bowlers have varied the pace intelligently , to keep a powerful Indian batting in check , mostly. Barring Virat Kohli and to an extent MS Dhoni , none of the others has actually made an impression yet on the Kiwi attack . New Zealand 's fielding has been sharp and aggressive. Under Brendon McCullum , the Black Caps are sending out strong signals to the rest of the world before the World Cup next year : they are ready for the big tournament and will be tough nuts to crack at home. Looking at how the reigning world champions have struggled , it does look like New Zealand will be a major threat in the 2015 World Cup . Key Players : Kane Williamson has been brilliant at number three and is the sort of player who can accelerate at will after a period of solidity. It gets only worse with the likes of Ross Taylor , Brendon McCullum and Corey Anderson to follow . Anderson 's power hitting has not only bailed New Zealand out in the death overs but has dented the psyche of the Indian bowling . Tim Southee and Mitchell McClenaghan will once again be expected to take the key wickets for India . Stats : - In his last 5 ODIs , Ashwin has only taken 1 wicket while giving away 271 runs in 46 overs . - Virat Kohli needs 1 more 100 to get to his 19th hundred and become the 8th highest in the world . Teams : New Zealand ( From ) : Martin Guptill , Jesse Ryder , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( w ) , Nathan McCullum , Kyle Mills , Tim Southee , Mitchell McClenaghan , James Neesham , Hamish Bennett India ( From ) : Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , MS Dhoni ( w/c ) , Suresh Raina , Ravindra Jadeja , Ravichandran Ashwin , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Mohammed Shami , Ishant Sharma , Stuart Binny , Ishwar Pandey , Varun Aaron , Ambati Rayudu , Amit Mishra Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
