Graphs Amla became the quickest to reach 18 ODI centuries , taking 102 innings to reach the landmark. He is followed by India 's Virat Kohli ( 119 innings ) and de Villiers ( 159 innings ) de Villiers and Amla recorded the second fastest 100-run stand for any wicket in ODIs , taking 33 deliveries Three batsmen - Amla , Rossouw and de Villiers - registered centuries in the same innings , the first time it has happened in an ODI . 439/2 is South Africa 's highest total in ODIs. Their previous best was 438/9 against Australia in 2006 at the same venue de Villiers ' strike-rate of 339 was the first instance of a batsman scoring over 100 with a 300-plus strike-rate de Villiers also equalled the record of India 's Rohit Sharma for most sixes by a batsman in an ODI de Villiers also recorded the fastest ODI fifty off just 16 balls , overtaking Sri Lanka 's Sanath Jayasuriya So , that 's all we have for you from the second ODI. Join us for the third ODI on Wednesday to see whether the Proteas can take an unassailable 3-0 lead or if the Windies can pull one back. Until then , take care. But , before we leave you , take a look at some of the records that were made today . At the end , it turned out to be a one-sided affair. The Proteas were unstoppable today and the visitors are now two games behind in a 5-match series. It will be difficult for them to win the series now , but we have seen unimaginable things happen in cricket. Look at de Villiers ' innings if you do n't believe me . Amla though was brilliant once again , carrying his bat through the South African innings. He also recorded his highest score in ODIs , scoring 153 off 142 balls. The West Indian bowlers were a major disappointment as they sprayed the ball all over the wicket. They could n't get the yorkers right and ended up bowling a number of full toss balls. de Villiers was especially severe on them as he smashed 16 sixes and 9 fours during his knock . Prior to the thrashing the West Indian bowlers received at the hands of de Villiers , the two openers , Rossouw and Amla , registered their respective tons as well. Rossouw and Amla put together a 247-run partnership for the opening wicket , a record for the highest opening stand for South Africa in ODIs and sixth overall . Earlier in the day , we witnessed AB de Villiers play one of the best knocks in cricket. He came out to bat when Rossouw fell during the 39th over and he was out in the 50th over. In between that , he registered the fastest century in ODI cricket , scoring a total of 149 runs in 44 balls . AB de Villiers : 'We certainly did. Lot of credit to Rilee ( Rossouw ) and Hash ( Hashim Amla ) upfront for setting the foundation. It was always going to be a lot of aggressive batting around Hash at the end there and it came off for me today. He is making it look quite easy. Is n't he ? He is ( Amla ) a world-class batter , he is unstoppable at the moment and he is taking a lot of pressure away from us. I am very happy for Rilee Rossouw , phenomenal knock from him. I sort of had a lot of time to warm up in the dressing room. Did a lot of walking up and down , thinking about how we should be playing. Russell ( Russell Domingo ) actually made a really good call towards the end of the innings there , asking me to go in. I wanted David to go in and take the left-arm spinner on. So , he ( Domingo ) made a very good call and it worked for me today. I was fired up in the dressing room today and sort of played my knock even before I came out to bat. The word aggression was probably the main thing for me today , I just wanted to go big right from the start. I think I was on 92 when I realized it 's close but I was never sure how many balls Corey Anderson took to get to the hundred. But I knew I was close and I was n't going to take the ones there in the 90s. It 's a bonus breaking records but I hate facing dot balls. Not much to say really , I love batting with Hash. He calms me down a lot at the crease , he is always so calm and relaxed. It is easy to bat with him. We love playing on the Pink day , the crowd at 'The Bullring ' is always fantastic.' AB de Villiers is the MoM for his 44-ball 149. He reached his century in 31 balls , the fastest century in ODIs Jason Holder : 'It was a tough game. AB came and took the game away from us. We were fine in the middle overs , but he just took the game away. It 's difficult to stop AB when he is hitting the ball everywhere , he 's an exceptional player and that 's what exceptional players do , they just take the game away. I thought we could have bowled the yorkers well but we did n't. Seniors like Ramdin and Sammy have supported and helped me in the last two games. We will have to put this game behind us and move forward. That 's the way Benn plays his cricket , he 's a very hard guy , it was commendable with the way he bowled today under the circumstances where the ball went all over the park. Hats off to him , but we need to move forward. Positive signs for both those guys ( talking about fifties from Smith and Ramdin ) . I thought Carter played well in his second game. So , there are some positives for the next game , but obviously a must-win game or else we lose the series. We need to put this behind us , need to critique where we went wrong and look to correct it.' Time for the presentation ceremony Dwayne Smith and Denesh Ramdin registered fifties for the visitors , but they were just playing to delay the inevitable. Samuels and Carter perished for 40 each as well. At the end , Sammy and Holder played out the last few overs , trying to reduce the loss margin. Steyn and Morkel were the pick of the bowlers for the Proteas. Philander also picked up 2 wickets , but was a little expensive . After South Africa posted 439/2 on the board , West Indies probably gave up all hope of winning this game. Chris Gayle came out and played a few shots , but he perished in the fifth over itself. As soon as Gayle got out , West Indies threw in the towel. Johnson came out and looked as if he was playing a Test match. He got out for 1 after playing 15 balls . South Africa win by 148 runs and go 2-0 up in the series with this win. The players shake hands with each other and AB de Villiers leads his team off the field. This result was inevitable as it never looked like that West Indies were going for the chase . 49.6 M Morkel to J Holder , no run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Holder presents the full face of the bat and blocks 49.5 M Morkel to J Holder , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Holder jumps in the crease and defends it back over the track 49.4 M Morkel to J Holder , no run , length delivery just outside off , Holder drives it to cover off the front foot 49.3 M Morkel to J Holder , no run , on a good length and outside off , Holder pokes at it away from his body , the ball goes past the outside edge and Morkel thought that he had his man there , but the ball was far away from the bat 49.3 M Morkel to J Holder , wide , banged in short and that sails way over the batsman 's head , wided by the umpire 49.2 M Morkel to J Holder , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Holder drops his wrists and lets it go 49.1 M Morkel to J Holder , FOUR , full delivery on off , Holder drives it uppishly past the bowler and the ball runs away to the fence , the fielder at mid-off had no chance of cutting that off Morne Morkel [ 9.0-0-38-2 ] is back into the attack Morkel will bowl the last over of the game 48.6 Steyn to Sammy , no run , length delivery outside off , Sammy lifts his bat and lets it go 48.5 Steyn to J Holder , 1 run , fullish delivery outside off , Holder leans forward and drives uppishly through the cover region for a single 48.4 Steyn to J Holder , FOUR , back of a length delivery outside off , the ball fails to rise as much as the batsman wanted , but Holder manages to pull it to the deep backward square leg fence , it was mistimed , but still went for four 48.3 Steyn to J Holder , no run , length delivery just outside off , Holder opens the face of the bat and pushes it towards point 48.2 Steyn to J Holder , no run , length delivery shaping away outside off , Holder was looking to push at it outside off , but pulls his bat back at the last moment 48.1 Steyn to J Holder , 2 runs , fuller in length and just outside off , Sammy was pushing at it , the ball takes the outside edge and runs past the fielder at slip , Tahir at third man runs to his left , dives across and keeps them down to a couple , great fielding from the spinner there 47.6 Tahir to Sammy , no run , gives this one more loop outside off , Sammy was looking to drive it through the off-side , the ball spins past the blade and the keeper gloves it 47.5 Tahir to J Holder , 1 run , floated up just outside off , Holder drives it to sweeper cover off the front foot 47.4 Tahir to Sammy , 1 run , stays back in the crease and dabs this flighted delivery towards point , the batsmen take a single 47.3 Tahir to Sammy , no run , floated up around off , Sammy defends it into the off-side 47.2 Tahir to Sammy , no run , flatter and very close to off stump , Sammy was looking to cut it it , but ended up chopping it towards short third man 47.1 Tahir to Sammy , no run , flatter delivery from Tahir , Sammy punches it back to the bowler 46.6 Steyn to J Holder , no run , another good ball from Steyn , it was on a good length outside off and shapes away further , Holder was looking for the drive , the ball goes past the outside edge , Steyn thought that Holder edged it , but ABD was not interested 46.5 Steyn to Sammy , 1 run , a little too straight this time , Sammy was looking to flick it fine , but ca n't make a proper connection , the ball rolls away behind square and the batsmen cross over 46.4 Steyn to J Holder , 1 run , back of a length delivery angling in on middle stump line , Holder stays back and works it to deep mid-wicket for a single A slip is in place now 46.3 Steyn to Sammy , 1 run , fuller delivery on the stumps , Sammy bunts it past the non-striker for a single 46.2 Steyn to Sammy , no run , length delivery just outside off , Sammy pushes it towards point and Holder was charging towards the striker 's end , but Sammy did n't respond. He runs back to his crease and Miller takes his time to throw it at the non-striker 's end , Holder would have been out had that hit the stumps 46.1 Steyn to Sammy , no run , peach from Steyn , on a good length and angled on off , the ball straightens after pitching , Sammy was pushing at it , the ball goes past the outside edge Dale Steyn [ 8.0-0-19-1 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Tahir to J Holder , no run , floated up on middle stump line , Holder presses forward and blocks it towards cover 45.5 Tahir to J Holder , no run , pushed through on the stumps , Holder works it towards mid-wicket and was looking for the single , Sammy sends him back 45.4 Tahir to J Holder , no run , slows this one outside off , Holder goes back and defends 45.3 Tahir to Sammy , 1 run , wrong ' un from Tahir , Sammy was pushing at it , the ball takes the inside edge and runs away past the leg stump and towards short fine leg 45.2 Tahir to Sammy , no run , tossed up on off , Sammy leans forward and drives it to mid-off 45.1 Tahir to Sammy , FOUR , flatter delivery just outside off , Sammy was looking to cut , but it was too close to his body , he gets an outside edge that runs away to the third man fence Imran Tahir [ 8.0-0-53-1 ] is back into the attack 44.6 M Morkel to Sammy , 1 run , back of a length delivery angling in on middle stump line , Sammy tucks it away towards mid-wicket off the back foot , he will keep the strike 44.5 M Morkel to Sammy , 2 runs , fuller in length and outside off , Sammy drives it after opening the face of the bat , the fielder at backward point dives , but fails to stop it and the batsmen take two before du Plessis slides in the deep and collects the ball 44.4 M Morkel to Sammy , no run , banged in short and at the batsman , Sammy fails to sway away from the line of fire , the ball takes the shoulder on its way to the keeper 44.3 M Morkel to Sammy , no run , back of a length delivery that does n't bounce as much as Sammy expected , he looks to pull and the ball goes under his bat 44.2 M Morkel to Sammy , no run , length delivery outside off , Sammy leaves it alone 44.1 M Morkel to J Holder , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Holder pushes it to mid-off and the batsmen take a single Morne Morkel [ 8.0-0-34-2 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Behardien to Sammy , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Sammy defends it back to the bowler 43.5 Behardien to Sammy , no run , length ball on middle , Sammy misses the flick and is struck on the thigh pad 43.4 Behardien to J Holder , 1 run , fuller length delivery on off , Holder drives it firmly to long-off 43.3 Behardien to Sammy , 1 run , on a length just outside off , Sammy dabs it to cover for a run 43.2 Behardien to J Holder , 1 run , length delivery on middle , Holder waits for it and works it to mid-wicket 43.1 Behardien to J Holder , no run , length delivery outside off , Holder goes for a loose drive and misses Farhaan Behardien [ 5.0-0-36-1 ] is back into the attack 42.6 Tahir to Sammy , no run , another googly on off and coming in , Sammy does not pick it , the ball dribbles off the pad to the off-side 42.5 Tahir to Sammy , no run , slider across off , Sammy knocks it to point 42.4 Tahir to J Holder , 1 run , fullish on off , Holder drives it to sweeper cover for a run 42.3 Tahir to J Holder , 2 runs , googly on off , Holder gets an inside edge which dribbles away to fine leg for a brace 42.2 Tahir to J Holder , 2 runs , comes on the front foot and drives it to sweeper cover 42.1 Tahir to J Holder , no run , flatter delivery on off , Holder blocks it back to the bowler 41.6 M Morkel to Sammy , FOUR , shorter delivery outside off , Sammy gets a thick outside egde which flies to the right of AB , runs away to the third man fence for a streaky boundary 41.5 M Morkel to Sammy , no run , on a length wide outside off , Sammy throws his bat at it and misses 41.4 M Morkel to Sammy , no run , good length delivery on off , Sammy drives it to backward point 41.3 M Morkel to Sammy , no run , yorker just outside off , Sammy looks to dig it out but misses , that was very close to the off-stump Jason Holder , right handed bat , comes to the crease 41.2 M Morkel to Ramdin , out Caught by du Plessis ! ! Morkel gets his second wicket of the match. This was a length delivery just outside off , Ramdin heaves it across the line , gets a top-edge which goes miles up in the air towards deep square leg , du Plessis settles under it and takes a good catch diving forward. That was also Morkel 's 150th wicket in ODIs. Ramdin c du Plessis b M Morkel 57 ( 55 ) [ 4s-4 6s-1 ] M Morkel to Ramdin , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 41.1 M Morkel to Ramdin , no run , bumper at the batsman , Ramdin ducks underneath 40.6 Tahir to Sammy , no run , fullish on off , Sammy digs it out to the on-side 40.5 Tahir to Sammy , 2 runs , goes back and cuts it between extra cover and long-off for a couple 40.4 Tahir to Sammy , no run , shortens the length a touch around off , Sammy back away and chops it , the ball almost goes back onto the stumps , Sammy kicks it away and survives 40.3 Tahir to Sammy , FOUR , floated across outside off , Sammy leans forward and drives it to the deep backward point fence for a boundary 40.2 Tahir to Ramdin , 1 run , tossed up on off , Ramdin presses forward and pushes it to long-on 40.1 Tahir to Ramdin , byes , FOUR , flatter delivery outside off , Ramdin looks to sweep and misses , the ball goes through AB 's legs for 4 byes Imran Tahir [ 6.0-0-41-1 ] is back into the attack 39.6 M Morkel to Sammy , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Sammy gets an inside edge onto the pads 39.5 M Morkel to Ramdin , 1 run , short delivery on the leg-stump , Ramdin pulls it to fine leg 39.4 M Morkel to Ramdin , 2 runs , back of a length delivery outside off , Ramdin goes on the back foot and cuts it in the air towards third man , where the ball falls just in front of the fielder 39.3 M Morkel to Sammy , leg byes , 1 run , back of a length delivery angling into the right-hander , Sammy misses the flick , gets hit on the thigh pad , which dribbles to the off-side , they run a leg bye 39.2 M Morkel to Sammy , no run , short delivery outside off , Sammy sways away from the line and lets the ball go through to the keeper 39.1 M Morkel to Ramdin , 1 run , good length delivery outside off , Ramdin steers it down to third man Morne Morkel [ 6.0-0-26-1 ] is back into the attack 38.6 Steyn to Sammy , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Sammy looks to cut but misses , as the ball keeps a tad low 38.5 Steyn to Sammy , no run , yorker around off , Sammy jams it to the off-side and looks to steal a single , Steyn was quick to get across and stops Sammy from going through 38.4 Steyn to Ramdin , 1 run , fullish on off , Ramdin drives it to the left of mid-off for a run 38.3 Steyn to Sammy , 1 run , short of length delivery around off , Sammy goes back and looks to push it to the off-side , gets an outside edge which rolls to third man 38.2 Steyn to Sammy , no run , fuller length delivery just outside off which keeps a tad low , Sammy comes forward and blocks it to the off-side 38.1 Steyn to Sammy , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Sammy goes back and defends it to cover 37.6 Tahir to Sammy , 1 run , low full toss on off , Sammy eases it down to long-on 37.5 Tahir to Ramdin , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle , Ramdin flicks it off his pads to mid-wicket 37.4 Tahir to Ramdin , no run , googly from Tahir , Ramdin pushes it back to the bowler 37.3 Tahir to Sammy , 1 run , full and outside off , Sammy drives it square of the wicket on the off-side to get off the mark Darren Sammy , right handed bat , comes to the crease 37.2 Tahir to A Russell , out Caught by du Plessis ! ! Tahir gets his first wicket of the match. This was a rank long hop on off , Russell rocks back and pulls it straight to du Plessis at deep mid-wicket who takes an easy catch. A Russell c du Plessis b Tahir 0 ( 1 ) Tahir to A Russell , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 37.1 Tahir to Ramdin , 1 run , low full toss on off , Ramdin eases it to long-on , this single also brings up the 6th ODI fifty for Ramdin Andre Russell , right handed bat , comes to the crease 36.6 Steyn to J Carter , out Caught by ( sub ) Parnell ! ! Steyn removes Carter against the run of play. This was a short of length delivery just outside off , Carter mistimes the pull to Parnell at mid-on , who dives forward and takes a good low catch. It was too close for the body to play the pull shot. J Carter c ( sub ) Parnell b Steyn 40 ( 39 ) [ 4s-3 6s-1 ] Steyn to J Carter , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 36.5 Steyn to J Carter , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Carter stays inside the crease and looks to cut it , but it was too close to the body , as a result he gets beaten yet again 36.4 Steyn to J Carter , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Carter swings wildly at it and misses 36.3 Steyn to J Carter , no run , bouncer at the batsman , Carter looks to pull but misses it 36.2 Steyn to Ramdin , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off , Ramdin goes back and dabs it to backward point for a run 36.1 Steyn to J Carter , 1 run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Carter drills it to mid-off Dale Steyn [ 6.0-0-15-0 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Tahir to Ramdin , SIX , flighted delivery outside off , Ramdin slog sweeps it over the deep square leg fence for a maximum 35.5 Tahir to J Carter , 1 run , fuller delivery on middle , Carter flicks it to long-on 35.5 Tahir to J Carter , wide , floated wide outside off , wide signalled 35.4 Tahir to Ramdin , 1 run , straighter delivery on the stumps , Ramdin leans forward and works it to mid-wicket 35.3 Tahir to Ramdin , no run , wrong ' un that spins in sharply , Ramdin comes forward and pads it away 35.2 Tahir to J Carter , 1 run , flighted delivery on leg , Carter sweeps it straight to deep backward square leg 35.1 Tahir to Ramdin , 1 run , fullish on middle , Ramdin jams it to mid-wicket Imran Tahir [ 4.0-0-26-0 ] is back into the attack Time for the batting powerplay 34.6 Duminy to Ramdin , 1 run , pushed through on off , Ramdin works it through mid-wicket for a run 34.5 Duminy to J Carter , 1 run , comes on the front foot and gets a thickish inside edge to backward square leg 34.4 Duminy to Ramdin , 3 runs , floated wide across off , Ramdin leans forward and swings hard at it , gets an outside edge which goes past the short third man , the fielder chases and saves a run for his team 34.3 Duminy to Ramdin , byes , FOUR , quicker delivery very full outside off , Ramdin heaves across the line and misses it completely , it goes through the legs of AB as well 34.2 Duminy to J Carter , leg byes , 1 run , drifts this on the pads , Carter misses the slog sweep , the ball dribbles off the pad to short fine leg 34.1 Duminy to Ramdin , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle , Ramdin works it through mid-wicket for a run Jean-Paul Duminy [ 3.0-0-33-0 ] is back into the attack 33.6 Behardien to Ramdin , 1 run , oh my word ! Behardien has fallen on the ground in his followthrough and he ends up delivering a full toss just outside off , Ramdin drills it to deep extra cover for a run 33.5 Behardien to J Carter , 1 run , straighter delivery on middle , Carter flicks it to deep mid-wicket 33.4 Behardien to Ramdin , 1 run , length delivery on middle , Ramdin works it to mid-on 33.3 Behardien to J Carter , 1 run , good length delivery on off , Carter pushes it to mid-off , the fielder at mid-off has a shy at the non striker 's end , but there was no one backing up the throw , the batsmen take the run for the overthrow as it rolls away towards the third man region 33.2 Behardien to J Carter , SIX , shortens the length on middle , Carter goes on the back foot and pulls it handsomely over the deep mid-wicket fence for a maximum 33.1 Behardien to J Carter , no run , length delivery just outside off , Carter comes forward and blocks it back to the bowler Farhaan Behardien [ 4.0-0-26-1 ] is back into the attack 32.6 Steyn to J Carter , 1 run , short delivery down the leg-side , Carter comes across and hooks it to fine leg for a run 32.5 Steyn to J Carter , no run , short delivery on off , Carter mitimes the pull straight to mid-wicket 32.4 Steyn to J Carter , no run , short delivery slanted across the left-hander , Carter drops his wrists and sways away from the line of the ball 32.3 Steyn to J Carter , no run , short and wide outside off , Carter shuffles across and chases it , but could n't connect it , the ball goes through to the keeper 32.2 Steyn to Ramdin , 1 run , short of good length delivery on off , Ramdin gets forward and taps it in front of cover for a run 32.1 Steyn to Ramdin , 2 runs , good length delivery outside off , Ramdin comes on the front foot and mistimes the loft shot over the mid-on fielder for a brace 31.6 Tahir to Ramdin , 1 run , full again outside off , Ramdin walks across and pushes it to long-on 31.5 Tahir to J Carter , 1 run , drags his length short yet again , Carter goes back and mitimes the pull to deep mid-wicket 31.4 Tahir to J Carter , FOUR , another fullish delivery just outside off , Carter leans forward and drives it inside out over the extra cover region for back-to-back boundaries 31.3 Tahir to J Carter , FOUR , quicker short delivery on off , Carter rocks back and pulls it between mid-wicket and long-on for a magnificent boundary 31.2 Tahir to J Carter , no run , tossed up delivery just outside off , Carter comes on the front foot and defends it to cover 31.1 Tahir to J Carter , no run , fullish on off , Carter squeezes it out to point Imran Tahir [ 3.0-0-16-0 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now 30.6 Steyn to Ramdin , no run , fuller in length and just outside off , Ramdin drives it to cover 30.5 Steyn to Ramdin , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Ramdin gets behind the line and bunts it into the off-side 30.4 Steyn to Ramdin , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Ramdin bunts it back to the bowler , who gets a hand on it in his followthrough , he parries it towards mid-on and Ramdin , who was looking for the single has to go back to his end 30.3 Steyn to Ramdin , FOUR , touch too straight from Steyn , Ramdin flicks it off his pads to the deep backward square leg fence , the shortest part of the ground and collects four 30.2 Steyn to J Carter , 1 run , slightly fuller this time and outside off , Carter comes on the front foot and drives it to sweeper cover , who moves to his right and cuts it off , the batsmen can only take a single there 30.1 Steyn to J Carter , no run , on a good length and outside off , Carter flashes at it , the ball goes past the outside edge Dale Steyn [ 4.0-0-6-0 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Duminy to J Carter , 3 runs , pushed through on middle and leg , Ramdin goes for the sweep and almost loses his footing there , the ball runs away behind square , Tahir at the runs across from deep square leg , dives to his right and saves a single for his team 29.5 Duminy to Ramdin , 1 run , flighted delivery on off , Ramdin moves across and works it behind square on the on-side 29.4 Duminy to J Carter , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Carter presses forward and drives it to sweeper cover 29.3 Duminy to J Carter , 2 runs , drags his length back this time , Carter pulls it towards deep mid-wicket , where Rossouw dives to his right and stops the ball , keeps the batsmen down to a couple , good fielding there from him 29.2 Duminy to J Carter , FOUR , flighted delivery on off and middle , Carter kneels down and sweeps it to the deep backward square leg fence 29.1 Duminy to J Carter , no run , floated up on off and middle , Carter leans forward and defends with his bat close to the pad Jean-Paul Duminy [ 2.0-0-22-0 ] is back into the attack 28.6 Philander to J Carter , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle stump , Carter moves across and turns it to mid-wicket , he will keep the strike 28.5 Philander to Ramdin , 1 run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Ramdin drives off the front foot , the fielder at short cover dives to his left and half-stops the ball , the batsmen take a single as the ball rolls away towards the deep extra cover region 28.4 Philander to Ramdin , no run , good length delivery on off , Ramdin leans forward and blocks it into the off-side 28.3 Philander to Ramdin , no run , length delivery shaping away outside off , Ramdin goes after it and looks to drive , the ball moves away and beats the outside edge , it kept a little low as well 28.2 Philander to J Carter , 1 run , just short of length and little wide outside off , Carter cuts it past a diving backward point for another single 28.1 Philander to Ramdin , 1 run , on a good length and shaping in on off and middle , Ramdin flicks it towards short mid-wicker after going across , a misfield allows the batsman to take a single 27.6 Behardien to Ramdin , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Ramdin moves across slightly and punches it towards long-on 27.5 Behardien to Ramdin , no run , slower one slightly wide outside off , Ramdin was looking to cut it , the ball beats the outside edge , he almost falls over as well , but manages to keep his foot inside the crease 27.4 Behardien to Ramdin , FOUR , drags his length back and angles it on the pads , Ramdin pulls it to the fine leg fence and collects four 27.3 Behardien to J Carter , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Carter eases it down to long-on for a single 27.2 Behardien to Ramdin , 1 run , just short of a good length and just outside off , Ramdin dabs it towards cover-point for a single 27.1 Behardien to Ramdin , no run , on a good length around off , Ramdin was pushing at it and checks his shot , just about gives a return catch there , but luckily it was to the left of the bowler and he could n't reach the ball even with a dive 26.6 Philander to Ramdin , 1 run , slightly wide outside off this time , Ramdin leans forward and mistimes the drive towards extra cover , Ramdin will keep the strike though 26.5 Philander to Ramdin , no run , length delivery with a hint of shape away on off , Ramdin pushes at it , the ball rolls away into the off-side off the outside half of the bat 26.4 Philander to J Carter , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle stump line , Carter wrists it towards mid-wicket and gets to the other end 26.3 Philander to J Carter , no run , straighter in line this time , Carter bunts it down to mid-on 26.2 Philander to J Carter , no run , length delivery around off , Carter drives it to mid-off 26.1 Philander to J Carter , no run , on a good length and on off , Carter defends it back to the bowler off the front foot 25.6 Behardien to J Carter , 1 run , length delivery just outside off , Carter waits in the crease and dabs it late towards third man after opening the face of the bat at the last moment 25.5 Behardien to Ramdin , 1 run , back of the hand slower ball from Behardien , Ramdin eases it down to long-off 25.4 Behardien to J Carter , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the pads , Carter tucks it to square leg and gets to the other end 25.3 Behardien to Ramdin , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Ramdin comes on the front foot and drives it to mid-off 25.2 Behardien to J Carter , 1 run , slower , fuller and just outside off , Carter leans forward and drives it to sweeper cover 25.1 Behardien to Ramdin , 1 run , length delivery on middle stump line , Ramdin turns it towards short fine leg after moving across , the batsmen rush through for a single , the fielder fires in the throw at the non-striker 's end and de Villiers whips the bails off in a flash , but the batsman was well in Jonathan Carter , left handed bat , comes to the crease 24.6 Philander to Samuels , out Caught by Behardien ! ! Samuels is gone. West Indies are four down now. It was a full delivery shaping away wide outside off , Samuels chases it and goes for the drive , he gets it off the bottom of the bat and ends up hitting it in the air towards extra cover , where Behardien takes a good catch above his head , he timed his jump perfectly. Samuels c Behardien b Philander 40 ( 48 ) [ 4s-3 6s-1 ] Philander to Samuels , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 24.5 Philander to Samuels , no run , short and wide outside off , Samuels looks to cut , but the ball goes past the bat and through to de Villiers 24.4 Philander to Ramdin , 1 run , good length delivery just outside off , Ramdin pushes it past the non-striker off the inside half of the bat 24.3 Philander to Ramdin , FOUR , great shot from Ramdin , it was full outside off , Ramdin comes on the front foot and drives it past a diving cover , the ball runs away to the deep extra cover fence 24.2 Philander to Ramdin , FOUR , length delivery on the stumps , Ramdin drills it past the non-striker , Steyn from mid-on gives chase , but the ball beats him to the fence 24.2 Philander to Ramdin , wide , shortish and wide outside off , the ball shaped away further as well , Ramdin goes chasing after it , but fails to connect with the cut , wided by the umpire 24.1 Philander to Samuels , 1 run , on a good length and outside off , Samuels chops it towards the gully region and sets off for a single 23.6 Behardien to Ramdin , no run , length delivery just outside off , Ramdin pushes it to cover 23.5 Behardien to Samuels , 1 run , length delivery on middle and leg , Samuels moves across and flicks it behind square for a single 23.4 Behardien to Samuels , no run , length delivery just outside off , Samuels moves away a touch and punches it to cover 23.3 Behardien to Samuels , FOUR , slower short ball wide outside off , Samuels cuts it hard backward of point for another boundary 23.2 Behardien to Ramdin , 1 run , on the pads , Ramdin moves across and turns it through mid-wicket for another single 23.1 Behardien to Samuels , 1 run , length delivery just outside off , Samuels drives it to deep extra cover 22.6 Philander to Ramdin , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Ramdin was looking to run it down to third man , the ball goes past the outside edge and through to the keeper 22.5 Philander to Ramdin , no run , length delivery outside off , the ball keeps low as Ramdin was looking to cut , goes to the keeper on the bounce 22.4 Philander to Ramdin , no run , on a good length and on off , Ramdin comes on the front foot and knocks it to mid-off 22.3 Philander to Ramdin , no run , length delivery around off , Ramdin leans forward and pushes it in front of cover 22.2 Philander to Samuels , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Samuels backs away and cuts it square of the wicket for a single 22.1 Philander to Ramdin , 1 run , fuller delivery just outside off , Ramdin looks to drive it through the off-side , the ball rolls away towards mid-on off the inside half of the bat 21.6 Behardien to Samuels , 2 runs , angling into the pads , Samuels tucks it away through mid-wicket , the batsmen run for a brace before the ball is fielded 21.5 Behardien to Ramdin , 1 run , on a good length and on off and middle , Ramdin bunts it down to mid-on for a single 21.4 Behardien to Samuels , 1 run , length delivery outside off , Samuels drives it to deep extra cover for a single 21.3 Behardien to Samuels , 2 runs , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Samuels works it in the region wide of mid-off , the batsmen take two as the bowler runs after it Denesh Ramdin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 21.2 Behardien to Dwayne Smith , out Caught by Duminy ! ! Behardien is pumped after taking the wicket. The bowling change has worked. Behardien bowls a leg-cutter and it was on a good length and just outside off , Smith goes for the loft , but does n't get hold of it , he ends up skying it very high , Duminy at long-off gets around and takes a fairly simple catch. The bat also turned in his hands and that 's why he did n't get the desired distance on that. Smith departs after scoring a fifty. Dwayne Smith c Duminy b Behardien 64 ( 65 ) [ 4s-9 6s-1 ] Behardien to Dwayne Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 21.1 Behardien to Dwayne Smith , no run , on a good length and on off , Smith leans forward and defends it back to the bowler Farhaan Behardien , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Behardien comes into the attack now 20.6 Philander to Samuels , no run , slightly short and wide outside off , Samuels ca n't connect with the cut yet again , de Villiers gloves it and applauds Philander 's effort in bowling that over 20.6 Philander to Samuels , wide , very full and right on the tram line , Samuels leaves it alone and the umpire signals it a wide 20.5 Philander to Samuels , 2 runs , on a good length and little wide outside off , Samuels cuts it towards deep backward point , the fielder from deep point runs to his left and keeps the batsmen down to a couple 20.4 Philander to Samuels , no run , this is good bowling from Philander , it was on a good length and slightly wide outside off , Samuels looks to cut it through the off-side , the ball goes past the outside edge 20.3 Philander to Samuels , no run , slightly fuller outside off , Samuels was again looking for the big booming drive , he fails to connect though 20.2 Philander to Samuels , no run , just short of a good length and shaping away outside off , Samuels backs away and flashes hard , but the ball beats the bat and goes through to the keeper 20.1 Philander to Samuels , FOUR , great shot from Samuels , it was superbly timed. It was on a good length and just outside off , Samuels backs away and drives it wide of the long-on fence , the fielder in the deep had no chance of cutting that off Vernon Philander [ 5.0-0-43-1 ] is back into the attack 19.6 Duminy to Dwayne Smith , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Smith leans forward and pushes it towards point 19.5 Duminy to Samuels , 1 run , tossed up just outside off , Samuels drives it to long-off and gets to the other end 19.4 Duminy to Samuels , no run , flighted delivery across off , Samuels stays back and dabs it towards short third man 19.3 Duminy to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , fires this one outside off , Smith cuts it towards sweeper cover , where Tahir slides to his left and keeps the batsmen down to a single 19.2 Duminy to Dwayne Smith , SIX , drags this one short , Smith hangs back and pulls it to the shorter boundary at deep mid-wicket , it cleared the fence even though he did n't time it that well , it came off the bottom part of the bat 19.1 Duminy to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , floated up on middle stump line , Smith gets his front foot out of the way and slog sweeps it to the cow corner fence Jean-Paul Duminy [ 1.0-0-10-0 ] is back into the attack 18.6 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , another slower delivery outside off , Samuels backs away and was looking to cut , but he ends up dabbing it towards backward point after opening the face of the bat 18.5 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , length delivery on leg stump line , Samuels backs away and bunts it towards mid-on 18.4 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , slower one from Morkel , he rolled his fingers on that , Smith cuts it past a diving backward point and the batsmen take a single 18.3 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , no run , Smith was lining up for a big hit there and he is not happy with himself , it was a fuller delivery around off , Smith clears his front leg and drives it straight to mid-off 18.2 M Morkel to Samuels , 1 run , slightly shorter and outside off , Samuels backs away a touch and guides it towards third man 18.1 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , leg byes , 1 run , angling into the pads , Smith fails to work it fine , the ball clips the pad and rolls away into the on-side , the batsmen sneak in a leg bye 17.6 Tahir to Samuels , no run , flighted delivery from Tahir , Samuels goes deep in the crease and blocks 17.5 Tahir to Samuels , SIX , super shot from Samuels , it was floated up outside off , Samuels gives the charge and launches it over the long-off fence 17.4 Tahir to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , tosses this one on off , Smith drills the drive back past the bowler , du Plessis at long-off runs to his right , puts in the dive and keeps them down to a single , good fielding that 17.3 Tahir to Dwayne Smith , no run , flatter delivery on the stumps , Smith pushes it back to the bowler 17.2 Tahir to Dwayne Smith , no run , floated up on leg , Smith goes for the sweep and misses , the ball hits him on the pad , there was a loud appeal , but the umpire turns it down , it pitched outside leg and Smith also got an inside edge on it. de Villiers and Tahir have chat whether to take a review , but decides against it 17.1 Tahir to Samuels , 1 run , floated up on off stump line , Samuels moves across and drives it to long-on 16.6 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , no run , on a good length and outside off , Smith flashes hard , but only connects with thin air , de Villiers gloves it 16.5 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Smith hops up in the crease and defends it back to the bowler 16.4 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , no run , another one that 's short and little wide outside off , Smith goes for another cut on the off-side , the ball had some extra bounce this time , it beats the blade and goes through to the keeper 16.3 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , that 's a good shot from Smith , it was short and wide outside off , Smith rocks back and cuts it in the air over backward point for a boundary , this shot also brings up the 8th ODI fifty for Smith 16.2 M Morkel to Samuels , 1 run , length delivery on off , Samuels backs away and drives it towards sweeper cover 16.1 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , short and wide outside off , Samuels goes for the cut , but ends up chopping it and the ball rolls away behind the track 15.6 Tahir to Samuels , 1 run , steps out of the crease and drives this flighted delivery inside-out towards long-off , he did n't time it that well 15.5 Tahir to Samuels , 2 runs , overpitches this time , Samuels whips it through the mid-wicket for a brace 15.4 Tahir to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , pushed through on middle and leg , Smith bunts it down to long-on 15.3 Tahir to Dwayne Smith , no run , slows this one on middle and leg line , Smith leans forward and defends 15.2 Tahir to Samuels , 1 run , floated up on off and middle , Samuels eases it down to long-on 15.1 Tahir to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , tossed up on middle stump line , Smith drives it uppishly to long-on for a single Drinks are on the field now 14.6 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , good length delivery outside off , Samuels stays inside the crease and goes for loose drive and misses 14.5 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , good length delivery on middle , Samuels comes across and misses the flick , gets hit above the knee roll on the pad , a muted LBW appeal is turned down 14.4 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , short delivery outside off , Smith goes on the back foot and upper cuts it to squarish third man for a single 14.3 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Smith gets behind the line and defends it to the off-side 14.2 M Morkel to Samuels , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off , Samuels opens the face of the bat and guides it to third man 14.1 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , good length delivery a bit wide outside off , Samuels swings at it without any footwork and misses Morne Morkel [ 3.0-0-17-1 ] is back into the attack 13.6 Tahir to Dwayne Smith , no run , fullish on the stumps , Smith comes forward and knocks it to the off-side 13.5 Tahir to Samuels , 1 run , comes on the front foot and drives it to cover for a run 13.4 Tahir to Samuels , no run , tossed up delivery turning away outside off , Samuels comes on the front foot and looks to drive but misses 13.3 Tahir to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , tossed up delivery just outside off , Smith leans forward and drives it to long-off 13.2 Tahir to Dwayne Smith , no run , wrong ' un on middle , Smith does n't pick , gets hit on the pads , a muted shout of LBW is turned down 13.1 Tahir to Dwayne Smith , no run , flatter delivery on off , Smith comes forward and defends it to cover Imran Tahir , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack Imran Tahir replaces Duminy after just one over 12.6 Steyn to Samuels , no run , short of length delivery wide outside off , Samuels leaves it alone 12.6 Steyn to Samuels , wide , short delivery down the leg-side , wide called 12.5 Steyn to Samuels , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Samuels drops his wrists on it and lets it go 12.4 Steyn to Samuels , no run , fullish and just outside off , Samuels without much foot movement looks to drive from the crease but misses it 12.3 Steyn to Samuels , no run , fuller length delivery on middle , Samuels blocks it back to the bowler 12.2 Steyn to Samuels , no run , bouncer just outside off , Samuels sways away from the line of the ball 12.1 Steyn to Samuels , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Samuels comes forward and pushes it to backward point and sets off for a quick single , Smith sends him back 11.6 Duminy to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , drags this one short and Smith pulls it off the back foot to the deep backward square leg fence for another boundary 11.5 Duminy to Samuels , 1 run , floated across on off , Samuels tucks it to deep backward square leg 11.4 Duminy to Samuels , FOUR , tossed up on off and middle , Samuels comes on the front foot and caresses it past the mid-off fielder for a beautiful boundary 11.3 Duminy to Samuels , no run , flighted delivery on middle , Samuels leans forward and pushes it back to the bowler 11.2 Duminy to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , flatter delivery on the pads , Smith tucks it off his pads to deep backward square leg 11.1 Duminy to Dwayne Smith , no run , shortish delivery on off , Smith punches it to mid-off Jean-Paul Duminy , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Spin for the first time in this innings in the form of Duminy 10.6 Steyn to Samuels , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Samuels knocks it to point 10.5 Steyn to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , fullish on middle , Smith comes on the front foot and works it to deep square leg 10.4 Steyn to Samuels , leg byes , 1 run , short of good length ball on the pads , Samuels fails to glance it , the ball rolls off the pads to fine leg as they take a leg bye 10.3 Steyn to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , on a length around off , Smith comes forward and pushes it to cover for a quick single 10.2 Steyn to Dwayne Smith , no run , good length delivery on off and middle , Smith backs away and smashes it straight to mid-off 10.1 Steyn to Dwayne Smith , no run , on a length around off , Smith knocks it to the on-side 9.6 Philander to Samuels , no run , fullish on off , Samuels drives it to to cover Marlon Samuels , right handed bat , comes to the crease 9.5 Philander to Leon Johnson , out Lbw ! ! Philander gets Johsnon for the second time in as many matches. This was a good length delivery swinging on middle , Johnson leans forward and misses the flick , gets rapped on the pads in front of middle , Johnson reviews immediately , but Hawk-Eye shows it would have gone onto hit middle and leg. West Indies lose their only review. Leon Johnson lbw b Philander 1 ( 15 ) Philander to Leon Johnson , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Johnson has been adjudged out LBW. He reviews it immediatley. Philander 's front foot is fine , three reds on the Hawk-Eye and Johnson has to go ! It was a very poor decision to review that one. West Indies lose their only review . 9.4 Philander to Leon Johnson , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Johnson drives it to cover 9.3 Philander to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , length delivery on middle , Smith tucks it to deep square leg 9.2 Philander to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , tonked ! This was fullish and just outside off , Smith makes room and clubs it past a diving mid-off fielder for a superb boundary 9.1 Philander to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , fuller length delivery swinging away a touch outside off , Smith leans forward and smashes it over the infield to the deep extra cover fence to collect a boundary 8.6 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Johnson lifts his bat and lets it go 8.5 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , short of length delivery on the hips , Johnson tucks it to the on-side , looks to steal a single , Steyn comes across on his followthrough and does not allow the batsman to take the single 8.5 Steyn to Leon Johnson , wide , fullish and wide outside off , wide called 8.4 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , short delivery going across the left-hander , Johnson looks to pull but could n't connect 8.3 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , short of good length delivery outside off , Johnson plays a loose drive from the crease and is beaten 8.2 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , good length delivery outside off , Johnson shoulders arms 8.1 Steyn to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , short of good length delivery angling into the batsman , Smith works it off his pads to deep square leg 7.6 Philander to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , good length delivery on off , Smith pushes it to cover for a single 7.6 Philander to Dwayne Smith , wide , now bowls a slower delivery down the leg-side , wide signalled again 7.6 Philander to Dwayne Smith , wide , bouncer outside off , Smith leaves it alone , but the umpire signals it as a wide as it went way over Smith 's head 7.5 Philander to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , back of a length delivery outside off , Smith backs way and smashes it over the infield to the deep extra cover fence for another boundary 7.4 Philander to Dwayne Smith , no run , fullish and on off , Smith blocks it back to the bowler 7.3 Philander to Dwayne Smith , no run , short of length delivery angling into the right-hander , Smith comes across and looks to flick , gets an inside edge back onto the pad 7.2 Philander to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , fuller length delivery on middle and off , Smith leans forward and lofts it over the mid-off fielder for a boundary 7.1 Philander to Dwayne Smith , 2 runs , short of length delivery outside off , Smith goes on the back foot and pulls it in front of sqaure , where Behardien comes across from deep square leg and stops it 6.6 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Johnson lifts his bat and lets it go 6.5 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , good length delivery slanted across off , Johnson flays at it and misses 6.4 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , short of good length ball across off , Johnson lifts his bat and lets it go 6.3 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Johnson looks to drive it on the up without much foot movement and gets beaten 6.2 Steyn to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , straighter delivery on middle and leg , Smith leans forward and clips it to deep square leg 6.1 Steyn to Dwayne Smith , no run , back of a length delivery angling into the right-hander , Smith looks to work it to the on-side , misses and gets rapped on the thigh pad Dale Steyn , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 5.6 Philander to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , short of length delivery around off , Smith makes room and punches it wide of mid-off 5.5 Philander to Dwayne Smith , no run , back of a length delivery on middle , Smith gets an inside edge back onto the pads 5.4 Philander to Leon Johnson , 1 run , short of good length delivery just outside off , Johnson punches it off the front foot to the left of mid-off and calls Smith for a quick single 5.3 Philander to Leon Johnson , no run , back of a length delivery on the hips , Johnson tucks it to short fine leg 5.2 Philander to Leon Johnson , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Johnson blocks it to the off-side 5.1 Philander to Leon Johnson , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Johnson lifts his bat and lets it go 4.6 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , no run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Smith pushes at it , gets a bottom edge onto the pad Leon Johnson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 4.5 M Morkel to Gayle , out Caught by Behardien ! ! Morkel gets the early breakthrough for South Africa and it 's the big man , Chris Gayle ! This was a short of length delivery outside off , Gayle rocks back and looks to pull , gets a top-edge which goes miles in the air towards deep mid-wicket , where Behardien comes across and takes a well-judged catch. Gayle c Behardien b M Morkel 19 ( 13 ) [ 4s-2 6s-1 ] M Morkel to Gayle , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 4.4 M Morkel to Gayle , no run , slower delivery on middle and leg , Gayle takes off his back hand of the bat and pushes it back to the bowler 4.3 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , good length delivery on middle , Smith flicks it off the front foot to mid-wicket 4.2 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , no run , short and wide outside off , Smith chases it , but fails to make any connect because of the extra bounce 4.1 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , no run , short of length delivery on off , Smith gets an inside edge onto the pads 3.6 Philander to Gayle , SIX , full and in the slot outside off , Gayle clears his front foot and clubs it way over the long-on fence for the first maximum of the innings 3.5 Philander to Gayle , FOUR , short of length delivery outside off , Gayle mistimes the heave to long-on for a boundary 3.4 Philander to Gayle , 2 runs , back of a length delivery just outside off , Gayle slices it over extra-cover and runs hard , completes the second run as well 3.4 Philander to Gayle , wide , full and wide outside off , Gayle chases it but could n't connect , wide called by the ump 3.3 Philander to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Smith skips down the track and mistimes a flat-batted shot to long-on 3.2 Philander to Dwayne Smith , no run , short of length delivery outside off which keeps a tad low , Smith looks to pull off the back foot but could n't manage to get bat on it 3.1 Philander to Gayle , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off , Gayle goes back and chops it in front of covers for a single 2.6 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , 2 runs , fuller length delivery outside off , Smith comes on the front foot and slices the drive to deep backward point for a brace 2.5 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , no run , length delivery on off , Smith drives it to mid-off 2.4 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , no run , short of good length delivery angling into the right-hander , Smith misses the flick , gets hit on the pad again 2.3 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , no run , short of good length delivery on off , Smith looks to work it through the on-side , manages to get an inside edge onto the pads 2.2 M Morkel to Gayle , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Gayle stands tall and punches it to extra cover for a run 2.1 M Morkel to Gayle , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Gayle pushes at it and misses 1.6 Philander to Dwayne Smith , no run , short of length delivery on middle , Smith nudges it to mid-wicket 1.5 Philander to Dwayne Smith , no run , straighter delivery around off , Smith blocks it to the on-side 1.4 Philander to Dwayne Smith , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Smith defends it to the off-side 1.3 Philander to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , back of a length delivery on the hips , Smith stays inside the crease , pulls and misses , the ball goes off the thigh pads past the diving AB behind the stumps , the umpire somehow signals it as runs 1.2 Philander to Dwayne Smith , no run , on a length around off , Smith mistimes the drive to mid-on Just a slip in place for Philander 1.1 Philander to Dwayne Smith , no run , good length delivery on off , Smith comes on the front foot and pushes it to mid-on Vernon Philander , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 M Morkel to Gayle , no run , fullish delivery just outside off , Gayle looks to drive , gets an inside egde onto the pads 0.5 M Morkel to Gayle , no run , fuller length delivery on middle and off , Gayle blocks it from the crease 0.4 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Smith goes back and cuts it in the air , square of the wicket on the off-side for a run 0.4 M Morkel to Gayle , no ball , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off , Gayle slices it to third man for a run , Morkel has overstepped again 0.3 M Morkel to Gayle , no run , back of a length delivery shaping away just outside off , Gayle pokes at it and misses 0.2 M Morkel to Gayle , FOUR , short of length delivery on the hips , Gayle makes room and pulls it to the deep square leg fence to get off the mark Free-hit coming up ! 0.2 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , no ball , oh ! Morne what have you done ? This was a short delivery wide outside off , Smith swings across the line , gets a top-edge to Philander at third man , but the umpires check for the no-ball and Morkel had overstepped , Smith survives and Morkel has to re-bowl that again 0.2 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , wide , short of length delivery wide outside off , wide called 0.1 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , Smith starts off with a four ! This was a back of a length delivery just outside off , Smith rocks back and looks to pull , gets an inside edge which goes past the leg-stump to the fine leg fence for a boundary Dwayne Smith and Gayle are at the crease. Dwayne Smith is on strike. M Morkel will open the attack Morne Morkel will start the proceedings for South Africa , Dwayne Smith will be on strike , two slips in place for him The South African team are in a huddle , Chris Gayle and Dwayne Smith stride out to the middle . West Indian batsmen have a mammoth task in front of them as they will go out and look to chase this down. They should n't feel demotivated because remember , this is the same ground where South Africa chased down 434 made by the Australians. Can Gayle and Co. make a fight of this challenge ? Or will it be too much for them ? Join us in a short while to find out . West Indies sprayed it all around and with de Villiers going hammer and tongs at them , they had no way of getting back during the latter stages of the South African innings. Eventually , South Africa finished with a whopping 439/2 , their highest total in ODIs. They fell short of the world record total made by Sri Lanka against the Netherlands , by just 4 runs . West Indies were poor in the field. They gave away way too many easy runs at the beginning of the game. Their bowling was poor and their fielding , to say the least , abysmal. It was only because of that opening partnership that AB de Villiers had the platform to go big , right from the start of his innings . Amla played a controlled knock , but managed to outscore the number of balls for his highest score in ODIs. He ended up carrying his bat through the innings , scoring 153 off 142 balls . Amla and Rossouw put up a 247-run partnership for the opening wicket , a record for the highest opening partnership in ODIs in South Africa. Rossouw completed his maiden ton before he perished while trying to accelerate. AB de Villiers walked in after that and the rest will now be history . The West Indian bowlers struggled to get their line right and the South Africans took full toll of it. AB de Villiers knock was special to say the least , but one can not leave out the contributions from Amla and Rossouw . AB de Villiers walked in after Rossow got out during the 39th over. In those 11.3 overs that were left in the game , he smashed 149. He broke Corey Anderson 's record for the fastest century in ODIs. Anderson took 36 balls to complete his ton and de Villiers took 31 . What an innings ! What a knock ! The ball was flying all over the park. AB de Villiers was sensational. It was one of the best knocks in the history of the game. The top three South African batsmen finish with a century each. ABD 's innings was as good as it can get in cricket. 149 runs off 44 balls , he smashed 16 sixes in his innings , equalling Rohit Sharma , who hit 16 sixes as well during his 209 against Australia . 49.6 A Russell to Amla , no run , full outside off and Amla fails to lay bat onto it once again , South Africa end the innings on a mammoth 439/2 49.5 A Russell to Amla , no run , length delivery just outside off , Amla moves across and was looking to drive it hard through the off-side , fails to connect though David Miller , left handed bat , comes to the crease 49.4 A Russell to de Villiers , out Caught by J Carter ! ! AB de Villiers walks off to a remarkable applause from the crowd. This has never been seen before. Take a bow AB de Villiers for that knock. It was full outside off , de Villiers backs away and slices the loft straight to Carter at sweeper cover. Everyone on the ground is on their feet to applaud him. Chris Gayle bows to AB and shakes hands with him while he walks off. Miller also pats him on the back as he comes out to bat. de Villiers c J Carter b A Russell 149 ( 44 ) [ 4s-9 6s-16 ] A Russell to de Villiers , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 49.3 A Russell to de Villiers , no run , comes from round the wicket and bowls the full and outside off , de Villiers backs away and swings hard , he fails to connect and the keeper collects 49.2 A Russell to de Villiers , 2 runs , back of a length delivery outside off , de Villiers backs away and slices it over covers , the batsmen come back for the second and that is the highest score by South Africa in ODIs 49.1 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Amla goes hard , but mistimes the punch to the left of the bowler , Russell falls over after twisting his ankle while landing when he was coming in to deliver the ball , he looks in some discomfort though but is fine now Andre Russell [ 9.0-0-75-0 ] is back into the attack South Africa need 3 more runs to go past their highest ODI score 30 runs came off that over 48.6 Dwayne Smith to de Villiers , 2 runs , full on leg , de Villiers clears his front leg and heaves it to deep mid-wicket , comes back for the second run easily 48.5 Dwayne Smith to de Villiers , SIX , fullish delivery on the stumps , de Villiers clears his front leg and lofts it inside out over the long-off fence 48.4 Dwayne Smith to de Villiers , SIX , banged in short again and goes for another six as de Villiers pulls it over the deep square leg fence 48.3 Dwayne Smith to de Villiers , FOUR , who can stop this man ? He is going nuts and the bowlers are being dispatched to all around the park. It was a yorker outside off , de Villiers opens the face of the bat and jams it out past a diving short third man fielder for another boundary 48.2 Dwayne Smith to de Villiers , SIX , bangs this one short , but it sits up perfectly for de Villiers , who pulls it over Benn at deep mid-wicket , another maximum 48.1 Dwayne Smith to de Villiers , SIX , another maximum for ABD , it was a full toss angling in on the pads , de Villiers takes his front foot out of the way and heaves it over the deep mid-wicket fence Dwayne Smith [ 3.0-0-38-0 ] is back into the attack 47.6 Jerome Taylor to Amla , FOUR , on a good length and outside off , Amla makes room and lofts it inside-out over the cove region , this boundary brings up the 150 for Amla , his highest score in ODIs 47.5 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , slower bouncer from Taylor , Amla looks to pull it , but fails to make a connection , the keeper collects on the bounce 47.4 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , 1 run , full outside off , de Villiers goes for the reverse sweep , but ca n't connect properly , the ball rolls away towards point off the toe-end of the bat , the batsmen take a single 47.3 Jerome Taylor to Amla , leg byes , 1 run , slower ball from Taylor , Amla goes across and misses the flick , wears it on his pad , the batsmen take a leg bye 47.2 Jerome Taylor to Amla , FOUR , full around off , Amla leans into the drive and caresses it wide of mid-off , the ball runs away to the fence 47.1 Jerome Taylor to Amla , 2 runs , slower one from Taylor , Amla bunts it to mid-off , he goes for the single and the fielder fires in the throw at the non-striker 's end and had he hit , Amla would have been a goner. The batsmen come back for an overthrow as the fielder backing up misfields the ball and rolls away into the deep Jerome Taylor [ 9.0-0-84-1 ] is back into the attack 46.6 A Russell to de Villiers , SIX , de Villiers is on fire here , it is full and on middle stump line , de Villiers backs away and slices the loft over the deep backward point fence , that is the 12th six of the innings for de Villiers , this is some batting from the no. 1 ODI batsman in the world 46.5 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , another full one from Russell , Amla drives it to mid-off and gets to the other end 46.4 A Russell to Amla , no run , full just outside off , Amla backs away and looks to go hard , he ends up hitting it back straight to the bowler 46.3 A Russell to de Villiers , leg byes , 1 run , de Villiers backs away and looks to go hard , Russell follows him with a very full ball , de Villiers ca n't connect and wears it on his pad , the ball rolls away behind square and the batsmen sneak in a leg bye 46.2 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , angling into the pads , Amla clips it towards mid-wicket and hands over the strike to ABD 46.1 A Russell to Amla , 2 runs , low full toss on the stumps , Amla works it towards deep mid-wicket and gets back for the second 45.6 J Holder to de Villiers , SIX , full on off and middle , Villiers dispatches it for another maximum , he clears Samuels at long-off and collects another six 45.5 J Holder to de Villiers , SIX , he has done it ! This is the fastest century in ODI cricket. What an exhibiton from the South African captain. It was full and just outside off , de Villiers gets down on one knee and slog sweeps it to the deep mid-wicket fence for another maximum , this is just brilliant batting. He has his hands aloft in joy , takes the helmet off and raises his bat to acknowledge the applause. Amla gives him a hug as well ! de Villiers is on 98 now 45.4 J Holder to de Villiers , SIX , this is breathtaking from de Villiers , he goes down on one knee and scoops the full toss for another maximum over the fine leg fence 45.3 J Holder to de Villiers , FOUR , de Villiers smashes another one , it was a fuller one on off , de Villiers clears his front leg and smashes it straight down the ground for another maximum 45.2 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , fullish outside off , Amla drives it to cover and gets to the other end 45.1 J Holder to Amla , no run , yorker outside off , Amla gave the charge and looks to hit it through the off-side , ca n't dig it out Jason Holder [ 8.0-0-68-0 ] is back into the attack 44.6 A Russell to de Villiers , SIX , another super shot from de Villiers , it was on a length and just outside off , de Villiers goes across and gets down on one knee , paddle scoops it over the fine leg fence 44.5 A Russell to de Villiers , no run , de Villiers backs away yet again , but Russell follows him , he ca n't connect with the swing and the keeper collects it down leg 44.4 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , Amla goes for the whip off a fuller delivery , ends up dragging it to deep backward square leg for a single 44.3 A Russell to Amla , no run , full and outside off , Amla was giving himself room to hit it through the off-side , ca n't connect though 44.2 A Russell to Amla , 2 runs , Amla was backing away and Russell follows him , he works it towards mid-wicket and good running ensures that the batsmen come back for the second 44.1 A Russell to Amla , 2 runs , fullish delivery outside off , Amla backs away and goes hard at it , he ends up dragging it towards long-on and the batsmen come back for the second Andre Russell [ 7.0-0-54-0 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Dwayne Smith to de Villiers , FOUR , the extra ball costs West Indies another four , it was fuller and on middle stump line , de Villiers clears the front leg and clubs it to the long-on fence , the fielder at long-on had no chance of cutting that off , this boundary also brings up the 100-run partnership between these two , it came off just 34 balls 43.6 Dwayne Smith to de Villiers , no ball , FOUR , a full toss from Smith , de Villiers backs away and looks to smash it through the off-side , gets a thick outside edge that runs away to the right of the keeper , it has also been called a no-ball because of the height and hence , he will have to bowl it again 43.5 Dwayne Smith to de Villiers , no run , yorker outside off , de Villiers jams it out back to the bowler 43.4 Dwayne Smith to Amla , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , Amla stays back and pulls it to deep square leg for a single 43.3 Dwayne Smith to Amla , FOUR , back-to-back boundaries for Amla now , it was on a length and on off off stump line , Amla lofts it over a leaping mid-off fielder and the ball runs away to the fence , he did n't time it that well , but luckily he cleared the mid-off fielder 43.2 Dwayne Smith to Amla , FOUR , fuller delivery on the stumps , Amla backs away , opens the face of the bat and slices the loft to the deep backward point fence 43.1 Dwayne Smith to de Villiers , 1 run , yorker length delivery outside off , de Villiers moves across and looks to whip it hard , gets an inside edge onto the pad and the ball rolls away into the off-side Dwayne Smith [ 2.0-0-19-0 ] is back into the attack Last 5 overs have gone for 91 runs. During that period , 7 fours and 7 sixes were hit , all the sixes were by ABD 42.6 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , 1 run , slower short ball from Taylor , de Villiers pulls it to deep mid-wicket , he will keep the strike 42.5 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , FOUR , brings out the reverse paddle now and dispatches it to the third man fence , bisecting short third man and backward point 42.4 Jerome Taylor to Amla , 5 runs , fuller delivery just outside off , Amla drives it towards backward point after opening the face of the bat , the batsmen run through for a single and the fielder has a shy at the striker 's end , he misses everything and the ball also goes for 4 overthrows , this is poor cricket from the West Indies 42.3 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , 1 run , de Villiers backs away and Taylor follows him with a yorker , he digs it out to deep backward square leg 42.2 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , SIX , banged in short and at the batsman , de Villiers goes for the hook , gets a top-edge that sails way over the fine leg fence , what a blinder de Villiers is playing 42.1 Jerome Taylor to Amla , 1 run , low full toss on off , Amla knocks it to mid-on to get off the strike 41.6 J Holder to de Villiers , FOUR , fullish delivery outside off , de Villiers yet again clears his front foot and slices it over cover for a boundary. 24 runs came off the over 41.5 J Holder to de Villiers , SIX , fuller length delivery on off , de Villiers stays inside the crease and clears his front leg again and lofts it high over Samuels at long-on 41.4 J Holder to de Villiers , SIX , half-volley just outside off , de Villiers clears his front foot and smashes it over the long-off fence to register the fastest fifty in ODIs in just 16 balls. Take a bow AB , take a bow ! 41.3 J Holder to de Villiers , SIX , full toss outside off , de Villiers gets down on one knee and paddles it way over the fine leg fence for another maximum 41.2 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , yorker length delivery on off , Amla jams it towards the off-side and rotates the strike 41.1 J Holder to de Villiers , 1 run , fuller length delivery on off , de Villiers clears his front foot and smashes it to long-on Jason Holder [ 7.0-0-44-0 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , leg byes , 1 run , fuller length delivery on leg , de Villiers gets down on one knee and looks to reverse paddle , but misses. The ball runs off the pads to square leg , the batsmen sneak in a leg bye 40.5 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , 2 runs , fullish on middle , de Villiers backs away and flicks it to deep mid-wicket for yet another couple 40.4 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , 2 runs , fuller length delivery on middle , de Villiers backs away and looks to whip it through the on-side , gets a thickish inside egde which runs to deep backward square leg for a brace 40.3 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , slower off-cutter on off , de Villiers backs away and looks to go over the off-side again , but only manages to mistime it back to the bowler 40.2 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , SIX , if you bowl a full toss like that , it deserves the treatment. This was a friendly full toss on off , de Villiers clears his front leg and clubs it over the long-off fence for another maximum 40.1 Jerome Taylor to Amla , 1 run , too full on leg , Amla comes on the front foot and flicks it to fine leg for a run 39.6 A Russell to de Villiers , SIX , length delivery outside off , de Villiers comes across and scoops it over the fine leg fence for yet another maximum. 22 runs came off the over 39.5 A Russell to de Villiers , FOUR , fuller length delivery outside off , de Villiers clears his front foot and lofts it wide over mid-off fielder for another boundary 39.4 A Russell to de Villiers , SIX , back of a length delivery just outside off , de Villiers shuffles across and pulls it handsomely over the to deep backward square leg boundary for his first maximum 39.3 A Russell to de Villiers , FOUR , short of length delivery just outside off , de Villiers stays on the back foot and smashes it over the mid-off fielder for a boundary 39.2 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , fullish on middle and leg , Amla gets forward and clips it to deep backward square leg 39.1 A Russell to de Villiers , 1 run , short good length delivery on off , de Villiers leans forward and pushes it to cover-point Andre Russell [ 6.0-0-32-0 ] is back into the attack 38.6 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , 1 run , almost yorker length outside off , de Villiers jams it out to third man 38.5 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , 2 runs , another fullish delivery outside off , de Villiers leans forward and slices the drive to squarish third man for a brace 38.4 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , FOUR , fuller length delivery on off , de Villiers comes on the front foot and smashes it down the ground to long-on to get off the mark with a boundary AB de Villiers , right handed bat , comes to the crease 38.3 Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , out Caught by Benn ! ! Finally this marathon partnership comes to an end. This was a fuller length delivery around off , Rossouw looks to loft it over mid-off , but checks his shot , he ends up chipping it straight to Benn at mid-off , who takes an easy catch. A magnificent innings from Rossouw comes to an end as well , Amla comes across and pats Rossouw on the back. Rossouw c Benn b Jerome Taylor 128 ( 115 ) [ 4s-11 6s-2 ] Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 38.2 Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , FOUR , another full toss and Rossouw skips down the track and smashes it to the long-on fence for back-to-back boundaries 38.1 Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , FOUR , low full toss just around off , Rossouw comes on the front foot and smashes it across the line to the deep mid wicket fence for a boundary Jerome Taylor [ 6.0-0-40-0 ] is back into the attack 37.6 Benn to Rossouw , 1 run , bowls this one straighter on middle , Rossouw flicks it to deep square leg 37.5 Benn to Rossouw , 2 runs , leans forward and drives this full toss to sweeper cover , the fielder at point gets a hand to it , but could n't stop it completely , the batsmen take a couple before the ball is hunted down 37.4 Benn to Amla , 1 run , short delivery on off , Amla top-edges the nudge which falls short of the deep mid-wicket fielder 37.3 Benn to Rossouw , 1 run , flatter delivery on leg , Rossouw reverse sweeps it to short third man 37.2 Benn to Amla , 1 run , tossed up on off , Amla once again comes down the track and lofts it in the air towards long-off , who takes it on one bounce 37.1 Benn to Amla , FOUR , flighted delivery on off , Amla skips down the track and flicks it to the vacant deep backward square leg boundary 36.6 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , short of good length just outside off , Amla mistimes the drive to cover-point 36.5 J Holder to Amla , no run , length delivery way outside off , Amla shuffles across and looks to flick , the ball goes off the pads towards cover , the batsmen think about taking the single but decide against it 36.4 J Holder to Rossouw , 1 run , good length delivery on off , Rossouw leans forward and eases it to long-on The fourth umpire has been asked to get his briefcase as the ball has gone out of the park. Umpire Steve Davis who got a hit earlier on his right arm is being taped . 36.3 J Holder to Rossouw , SIX , smashed ! This was short of length delivery on middle , Rossouw rocks back and pulls it way over the deep square leg fence for a huge hit 36.2 J Holder to Rossouw , FOUR , half-volley outside off , Rossouw comes on the front foot , opens the face of the bat and drives it to the deep backward point fence for a boundary , the man at sweeper dives across but could n't stop it 36.1 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off , Amla jumps inside the crease and dabs it to third man Jason Holder [ 6.0-0-31-0 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Benn to Amla , 1 run , fullish on off , Amla pushes it to cover 35.5 Benn to Amla , no run , tossed up delivery outside off and turning away , Amla comes on the front foot and pushes at it , the ball goes past the outside edge and the keeper collects it 35.4 Benn to Rossouw , 1 run , goes on the back foot and punches it to extra cover for a run 35.3 Benn to Rossouw , 2 runs , friendly full toss on leg , Rossouw flicks it to deep mid-wicket , runs hard and completes the second run easily 35.2 Benn to Amla , 1 run , tossed up delivery on off , Amla leans forward and drives it to long-off 35.1 Benn to Amla , 2 runs , short delivery just around off , Amla back away and punches it square of the wicket off the back foot on the off-side Sulieman Benn [ 8.0-0-32-0 ] is back into the attack 34.6 Dwayne Smith to Amla , 1 run , good length delivery just outside off , Amla comes on the front foot and drives it to sweeper cover 34.5 Dwayne Smith to Rossouw , 1 run , on a length angled across off , Rossouw cuts it to deep point for a run 34.4 Dwayne Smith to Amla , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Amla goes on the back foot and cuts it to squarish third man for a run 34.3 Dwayne Smith to Amla , no run , bumper at the batsman , Amla ducks under it 34.2 Dwayne Smith to Amla , FOUR , now it 's Amla 's time to get to his 18th ODI hundred. This was a back of a length delivery outside off , Amla goes back and cuts it past the backward point fielder for a magnificent boundary. He takes off his helmet and acknowledges the applause from the crowd and his team members , waving his bat towards them 34.1 Dwayne Smith to Rossouw , 1 run , fullish on middle , Rossouw leans forward and flicks it to mid-wicket 34.1 Dwayne Smith to Rossouw , wide , fuller length delivery down the leg-side , easy decision for the umpire 33.6 A Russell to Rossouw , 1 run , short of length delivery around off , Rossouw goes on the back foot and pulls it to deep mid-wicket to get to his maiden ODI century. He is pumped up and takes off his helmet in delight , hugs Amla and was a little emotional as well , he raises his bat to his dressing room and the crowd Rossouw on 99.. . 33.5 A Russell to Rossouw , 2 runs , short delivery just outside off , Rossouw rocks back and pulls it to deep backward square leg 33.4 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , short of length delivery on the pads , Amla shuffles across and clips it to deep square leg 33.3 A Russell to Rossouw , 1 run , on a length around off , Rossouw leans forward and drives it to mid-on 33.2 A Russell to Rossouw , no run , good length delivery on off , Rossouw pushes it back to the bowler 33.1 A Russell to Rossouw , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Rossouw comes forward and chips it in the air towards Gayle at cover , luckily for him it falls short This is now the highest opening wicket partnership at Johannesburg , beating the previous record held by Ganguly and Tendulkar Drinks are on the field now 32.6 Dwayne Smith to Rossouw , 1 run , full delivery on the off and middle , Rossouw eases it down to long-on for a single 32.5 Dwayne Smith to Amla , 3 runs , length delivery on off , Amla drives it towards mid-off , the fielders - Benn and Holder at cover and mid-off were charging towards the ball and both of them missed it completely and almost collided with each other , the batsmen take two extra runs apart from the single there , poor fielding effort from the West Indians 32.4 Dwayne Smith to Rossouw , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Rossouw pulls it hard , but to the fielder at deep backward square leg , the batsmen take a single 32.3 Dwayne Smith to Rossouw , no run , gives the charge to this length delivery outside off , he goes hard at it , but only finds the man at cover 32.2 Dwayne Smith to Amla , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Amla goes across and tucks it away behind square 32.1 Dwayne Smith to Amla , FOUR , fullish delivery outside off , Amla leans forward and punch-drives it past a diving cover , the fielder at mid-off also had no chance of cutting that off Dwayne Smith , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 29 runs came off the batting powerplay 31.6 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , fuller in length and around off , Amla drives it to mid-off and he will keep the strike 31.5 A Russell to Rossouw , 1 run , length delivery angling away outside off , Rossouw taps it towards mid-off and sets off for a single 31.4 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , on a good length and on off , Amla eases it down to mid-on 31.3 A Russell to Amla , 2 runs , length delivery outside off , Amla moves across and looks to work it into the on-side , he mistimed it and the ball rolls away towards mid-wicket , the batsmen take a single and Benn fires in a throw at the non-striker 's end , the ball rolls away further into the off-side after a direct-hit , giving the batsman an opportunity to take the second run and they do n't disappoint 31.2 A Russell to Rossouw , 1 run , back of a length delivery on off and middle , Rossouw punches it off the inside half of the bat to mid-on , the batsmen take a quick run 31.1 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , slower one just outside off , Amla moves across and turns it into the on-side Andre Russell [ 4.0-0-20-0 ] is back into the attack Russell into the attack now 30.6 J Holder to Rossouw , 2 runs , gives the charge and takes this delivery outside off on the full , he drives it towards the deep extra-cover region , the fielder at sweeper cover runs to his left and keeps the batsmen down to a couple 30.5 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , Amla moves away from the line and upper cuts it , it was in the air for some time , but did n't carry to the third man fielder , a risky shot for a single there from Amla 30.4 J Holder to Rossouw , 1 run , slightly back of a length delivery outside off , Rossouw punches it to deep extra cover , Rossouw was looking for the second there , but Amla sends him back Back to over the wicket 30.3 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , shuffles right across his stumps and works this length delivery behind square for a single 30.2 J Holder to Amla , no run , comes from round the wicket and bowls short of length delivery angling away just outside off , Amla was looking to pull it , but it was not that short , he fails to connect and the ball goes through to the keepr 30.1 J Holder to Rossouw , 1 run , just short of a good length and on off , Rossouw bunts it towards extra cover for a single Jason Holder [ 5.0-0-25-0 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Benn to Amla , no run , beautiful delivery from Benn , he gives this one more air on off , Amla was looking to drive it through the off-side , the ball spins past the outside edge and Amla was falling over , luckily for him , he got his foot down in time The TV umpire has been called in to check a stumping call. Amla is the batsman in question here. Did he get his foot down in time ? It was in the air for a little while , but he did get it down before the bails were whipped off , Amla survives 29.5 Benn to Rossouw , 1 run , darted on the pads , Rossouw clips it behind square on the on-side 29.4 Benn to Amla , 1 run , flatter just outside off , Amla backs away in the crease and cuts it to sweeper cover 29.3 Benn to Amla , no run , flighted delivery on middle stump line , Amla works it to mid-wicket , he ca n't get off strike though 29.2 Benn to Amla , no run , drags it a little short and close to off , Amla cuts it straight to point 29.1 Benn to Amla , no run , flighted delivery on middle and leg stump line , Amla takes a step forward and blocks it into the on-side 28.6 Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , no run , slower ball just outside off , Rossouw knocks it towards cover 28.5 Jerome Taylor to Amla , 1 run , confusion in the middle , but the batsmen are safe , it was a fuller delivery from Taylor , Amla drills it back towards the bowler , who gets a hand on it , the ball slowly rolls away towards Russell at mid-off and Amla was charging towards the other end , Rossouw was ball watching and was late to get off the blocks , Russell fires in the throw at the striker 's end and Rossouw puts in the dive and survives. Had that been a direct-hit , he would have been a goner 28.4 Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , 1 run , full toss from Taylor , Rossouw helps it towards deep mid-wicket 28.3 Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , 2 runs , banged in short and at the batsman , but the ball does n't rise much , Rossouw pulls it behind square on the on-side , the fielder from deep square runs across , dives and fires in a throw quickly. However , Rossouw was charging back for the second and makes it easily 28.2 Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , FOUR , on a good length and outside off , Rossouw comes on the front foot and punches it past a diving extra cover , the fielder at mid-off gives chase , but the ball beats him to the fence 28.1 Jerome Taylor to Amla , 1 run , back of a length delivery around off , Amla hangs back and defends it with soft hands , the batsmen pinch a single as the ball rolls away behind the track on the off-side 27.6 Benn to Rossouw , 2 runs , tossed up on the stumps , Rossouw clips it through mid-wicket for another couple , the fielder in the deep runs in and fires in a throw at the non-striker 's end , but Amla made it in time 27.5 Benn to Rossouw , no run , 98.3 kph quicker ball from Benn , Rossouw was pushing at it , the ball turns ever so slightly and goes past the blade , the keeper ca n't glove it cleanly either 27.4 Benn to Rossouw , 2 runs , flighted delivery on middle stump line , Rossouw moves across and works it through mid-wicket , the batsmen had ample time to come back for the second run 27.3 Benn to Rossouw , no run , pushed through outside off , Rossouw bunts it back to the bowler 27.2 Benn to Amla , 1 run , flighted delivery just outside off , Amla drives it to the left of the bowler for a single , the fielder from extra cover runs across to stop the ball 27.1 Benn to Amla , no run , floated up just outside off , Amla leans forward and pushes it back to the bowler Sulieman Benn [ 6.0-0-25-0 ] is back into the attack Batting powerplay time. Benn has come back into the attack 26.6 Jerome Taylor to Amla , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , Amla hangs on the back foot and pulls it behind square on the leg-side , he rolled his wrists over it to send it along the ground 26.5 Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , 1 run , full toss just outside off , Rossouw moves across and works it to deep backward square leg 26.4 Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , FOUR , poor fielding from Samuels at the third man boundary , it was a fuller delivery slightly wide outside off , Rossouw slices the drive and the ball runs away behind square on the off-side , Samuels from third man runs across and should have stopped the ball there , but instead he parries it over the boundary due to his laziness , Samuels got a hand on it though 26.3 Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , no run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Rossouw bunts it down to mid-on Comes round the wicket to Rossouw 26.2 Jerome Taylor to Amla , 1 run , fuller in length and on off and middle , Amla looks to drive , the ball rolls away behind square off the inside half of the bat , the single brings up the 150-run partnership between these two 26.1 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Amla drops it into the off-side with soft hands and was looking for a single , but Rossouw sends him back Jerome Taylor [ 4.0-0-24-0 ] is back into the attack Taylor replaces Samuels in the attack 25.6 Sammy to Rossouw , no run , slower one outside off , Rossouw goes hard at it , but hits it straight to the fielder at short cover 25.5 Sammy to Amla , 1 run , angling into the pads , Amla flicks it to deep square leg for a single 25.4 Sammy to Rossouw , 1 run , gives the charge again and pulls this short delivery in front of square this time 25.3 Sammy to Rossouw , FOUR , Rossouw is timing it well now , he charges down the track to this short of length delivery outside off and he clubs it past a diving mid-off , who got a hand , but could n't stop the ball from running away to the fence 25.2 Sammy to Amla , 1 run , banged in short and outside off , Amla stays back and guides it late towards third man after hopping up in the crease 25.1 Sammy to Amla , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Amla punches it a little uppishly past the bowler , the ball rolls away to mid-off 24.6 Samuels to Rossouw , no run , floated up outside off and turning away , Rossouw was pushing at it , the ball spins past the outside edge and the keeper gloves it 24.5 Samuels to Amla , 1 run , pushed through on the pads , Amla works it to deep mid-wicket and gets to the other end 24.4 Samuels to Rossouw , 1 run , flatter delivery from Samuels , Rossouw goes back and punches it to sweeper cover 24.3 Samuels to Rossouw , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Rossouw punches it hard , but back to the bowler 24.2 Samuels to Rossouw , SIX , first maximum of the game , it was tossed up around off , Rossouw goes down on one knee and slog sweeps it over the cow corner fence , great shot that 24.1 Samuels to Rossouw , FOUR , bad ball from Samuels , it was short and outside off , Rossouw goes deep in the crease and cuts it to the deep extra-cover fence 23.6 Sammy to Rossouw , 1 run , fuller on middle stump line , Rossouw drills it to long-on and he will keep the strike 23.5 Sammy to Amla , 1 run , little too straight in line this time around , Amla tucks it away to deep backward square leg off his pads 23.4 Sammy to Amla , no run , length delivery outside off , Amla opens the face of the bat and taps it to backward point 23.3 Sammy to Amla , no run , on a good length and on off , Amla pushes it back to the bowler 23.2 Sammy to Amla , 2 runs , slower one outside off , Amla shuffles across and tucks it away behind square , the batsmen run for a brace before the ball is fielded The keeper goes back for Amla 23.1 Sammy to Rossouw , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Rossouw goes across and works it towards mid-wicket The keeper is upto the stumps now 22.6 Samuels to Rossouw , 1 run , floated up outside off , Rossouw comes on the front foot and drives uppishly off the toe-end of the bat , the ball beats a diving cover and dribbles away to long-off 22.5 Samuels to Amla , 1 run , flighted delivery on the stumps , Amla backs away a touch and punches it wide of mid-off 22.4 Samuels to Amla , no run , Amla moves right across hard and straight stumps to this delivery on off and middle stump line , turns it behind square on the on-side 22.3 Samuels to Rossouw , 1 run , floated up on off , Rossouw leans forward and pushes it to cover-point , the batsmen take a single 22.2 Samuels to Rossouw , no run , flatter delivery turning away outside off , Rossouw punches it to short cover 22.1 Samuels to Amla , 1 run , slows this one on off and middle , Amla turns it to mid-wicket for a single 21.6 Sammy to Rossouw , no run , slower one outside off , Rossouw was looking to run it down to third man , but fails to connect 21.5 Sammy to Rossouw , no run , on a good length and angling into off and middle , Rossouw drives it back towards the bowler , who stops the ball in his followthrough 21.4 Sammy to Amla , 1 run , waits for this slightly back of a length delivery outside off , he dabs it to third man and gets to the other end 21.3 Sammy to Rossouw , 1 run , short of length delivery on the stumps , Rossouw goes on the back foot and punches it straight down the ground for a single 21.2 Sammy to Rossouw , FOUR , poor delivery from Sammy , it was shortish and wide outside off , Rossouw punch-drives it to the deep extra cover fence , the boundary also brings up the 2nd ODI fifty for Rossouw 21.1 Sammy to Rossouw , 2 runs , great running from Rossouw there , it was just short of a good length and outside off , Rossouw shuffles across and tucks it away through square leg , good running ensures that the batsmen come back for the second 20.6 Samuels to Amla , 2 runs , slightly quicker and floated up around off , Amla goes across and works it past square leg , the batsmen take two before the ball is hunted down 20.5 Samuels to Amla , FOUR , slightly wide outside off , Amla backs away a little and cuts it to the squarish third man fence , super shot from Amla Continues from round the wicket to Amla 20.4 Samuels to Rossouw , 1 run , touch flatter and a little wide outside off , Rossouw stays back and cuts it to sweeper cover 20.3 Samuels to Rossouw , no run , floated up outside off and spinning further away , Rossouw lifts his bat and lets it go Samuels will come round the wicket to the left-hander 20.2 Samuels to Amla , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle stump line , Amla turns it behind square and the batsmen cross over 20.1 Samuels to Amla , FOUR , poor delivery to start with , a rank long hop from Samuels , Amla goes deep in the crease and pulls it to the deep backward square leg fence , the ball got the treatment it deserved Marlon Samuels , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Spin for spin as Samuels replaces Benn into the attack 19.6 Sammy to Rossouw , no run , on a good length and angling in on off and middle , Rossouw pushes it into the on-side 19.5 Sammy to Amla , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Amla opens the face of the bat and guides it down to third man for a single 19.4 Sammy to Rossouw , 1 run , on a good length and around off , Rossouw eases it down to long-on , the single also brings up the 100-run partnership between these two Comes round the wicket now 19.3 Sammy to Rossouw , FOUR , poor short ball from Sammy , the ball sits up nicely for Rossouw , who pulls it to the deep mid-wicket fence 19.2 Sammy to Rossouw , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Rossouw comes on the front foot and drives it a little uppishly to mid-off 19.1 Sammy to Rossouw , no run , just short of a good length and just outside off , Rossouw stays back and plays a flat-batted punch back to the bowler Darren Sammy , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 18.6 Benn to Amla , no run , tossed up outside off , Amla leans forward and looks to drive it through the off-side , gets an outside edge that rolls away towards short third man 18.5 Benn to Rossouw , 1 run , on off and middle stump line , Rossouw tucks it away to mid-wicket for a run 18.4 Benn to Rossouw , no run , flighted delivery on the pads , Rossouw was looking to lap it fine , but the ball rolls away into the off-side off his glove 18.3 Benn to Amla , 1 run , gives this one more air just outside off , Amla punches it towards long-off 18.2 Benn to Rossouw , 1 run , touch flatter around off this time , Rossouw works it through mid-wicket for a single 18.1 Benn to Rossouw , no run , floated up just outside off , Rossouw was looking to dab it fine , but the ball keeps low and the keeper ca n't glove it cleanly as well 17.6 A Russell to Amla , no run , bouncer outside off , Amla has nothing to do with it and leaves it for the keeper 17.5 A Russell to Rossouw , 1 run , angling on middle stump line , Rossouw moves across and works it to mid-on 17.4 A Russell to Rossouw , no run , slightly back of a length and on the stumps , Rossouw pulls it towards mid-wicket 17.3 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Amla jumps up in the crease and punches it just wide of mid-off for a single 17.2 A Russell to Rossouw , 1 run , short of length delivery on the pads , Rossouw tucks it towards fine leg and gets to the other end 17.1 A Russell to Amla , 3 runs , back of a length delivery a little wide outside off , Amla rocks back and cuts it past cover , the fielder from mid-off gives chase and saves a run for his team , this also brings up the 27th ODI fifty for Amla Drinks are on the field now 16.6 Benn to Amla , 1 run , floated across middle and off , Amla comes across and works it off his pads to deep mid-wicket 16.5 Benn to Rossouw , 1 run , tossed up on off , Rossouw comes on the front foot and drives it along the ground to long-on 16.4 Benn to Amla , 1 run , short delivery just outside off , Amla goes back and cuts it to point for a run 16.3 Benn to Rossouw , 1 run , goes on the back foot and pushes it to mid-wicket , where Gayle misfields and as a result , the batsman take a run 16.2 Benn to Amla , 1 run , fullish on the stumps , Amla comes forward and eases it to long-on 16.1 Benn to Amla , no run , flighted delivery on middle , Amla sweeps it to short fine leg 15.6 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , good length delivery on off , Amla comes across and flicks it off his pads to deep backward square leg 15.6 A Russell to Amla , wide , fuller length delivery down the leg-side , wide called 15.5 A Russell to Rossouw , 1 run , short of length delivery on off , Rossouw goes back and pushes it to mid-off 15.5 A Russell to Rossouw , wide , bouncer on middle , Rossouw ducks under it , wide called for height 15.4 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , short again just outside off , Amla pulls it again , but does n't connect with it that well and the ball rolls away to deep square leg 15.3 A Russell to Amla , FOUR , short delivery just outside off , Amla rocks back and pulls it in front of square on the on-side for a magnificent boundary 15.2 A Russell to Amla , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Amla comes forward and plays a loose drive but could n't connect 15.1 A Russell to Amla , no run , good length delivery on off , Amla comes forward and flicks it to mid-on 14.6 Benn to Rossouw , no run , short delivery outside off , Rossouw mitimes the pull back to the bowler 14.5 Benn to Rossouw , no run , flighted delivery just around off and turning in , Rossouw gets down on one knee and looks for the reverse sweep , but can only manage a bottom edge back onto the pads , there was a loud appeal as the ball strikes the pad , the umpire did n't spot the edge and gives it out immediately , but Rossouw successfully reviews and survives Rossouw has been given out LBW , but he reviews it immediately , Benn 's front foot is fine , the ball seems to have gone off the bottom of the bat , there 's hardly anything on the Snicko , 'Not Out ' is the call and Rossouw survives 14.4 Benn to Rossouw , no run , tossed up delivery on off , Rossouw defends it back to the bowler 14.3 Benn to Amla , 1 run , goes on the back foot and punches it to sweeper cover 14.2 Benn to Rossouw , 3 runs , flighted delivery just outside off , Rossouw gets down on one knee and reverse sweeps it to third man 14.1 Benn to Rossouw , no run , floated outside off , Rossouw drives it back to the bowler 13.6 A Russell to Rossouw , 1 run , fuller length delivery outside off , Rossouw comes on the front foot and drives it to sweeper cover 13.5 A Russell to Rossouw , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Rossouw punches it to cover 13.4 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , short of length delivery on the hips , Amla nudges it to deep backward square leg 13.3 A Russell to Amla , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Amla pushes it back to the bowler 13.2 A Russell to Amla , no run , bumper on middle , Amla ducks under it 13.1 A Russell to Rossouw , 1 run , short delivery just outside off , Rossouw rocks back and pulls it to deep mid-wicket 12.6 Benn to Amla , 2 runs , floated across off , Amla leans forward and drives it towards Gayle at cover , who misfields this time , the batsmen run hard and complete the second run with ease 12.5 Benn to Amla , no run , flighted delivery on off , Amla comes on the front foot and drives it to cover , where Gayle dives to his right and saves a run 12.4 Benn to Rossouw , 1 run , shortens the length just outside off , Rossouw goes back and pushes it to point for a run 12.3 Benn to Amla , 1 run , tossed up delivery on off , Amla comes forward and eases it to long-on 12.2 Benn to Rossouw , 1 run , goes on the back foot and works it to backward square leg 12.1 Benn to Rossouw , 2 runs , short delivery turning into the left-hander from off , Rossouw shuffles across and lap sweeps it , the ball runs off the gloves to fine leg 11.6 A Russell to Amla , no run , another short of length delivery on off , Amla jumps inside the crease and blocks it back to the bowler 11.5 A Russell to Amla , no run , bouncer at the batsman , Amla ducks underneath 11.4 A Russell to Rossouw , 1 run , short delivery just outside off , Rossouw pulls it in the air , which falls just short of the deep mid-wicket fielder , the batsmen take a run 11.3 A Russell to Rossouw , no run , good length delivery on off , Rossouw pushes it to mid-on 11.2 A Russell to Rossouw , no run , short and wide again outside off , Rossouw flat bats it to mid-off 11.1 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Amla goes inside the crease and cuts it to deep extra cover Andre Russell , right-arm fast , comes into the attack Change in bowling now , Russell will replace Holder in the attack 10.6 Benn to Rossouw , no run , goes on the back foot and pushes it to short mid-wicket 10.5 Benn to Amla , 1 run , short delivery again just outside off , Amla goes back and cuts it square of the wicket on the off-side for a single 10.4 Benn to Amla , no run , shortens the length a touch on middle , Amla goes back and blocks it to the on-side 10.3 Benn to Rossouw , 1 run , tossed up just outside off , Rossouw comes on the front foot and drives it to long-on 10.2 Benn to Rossouw , 2 runs , flighted delivery just outside off , Rossouw gets down on one knee and paddles it to fine leg for a brace 10.1 Benn to Amla , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Amla goes on the back foot and cuts it to sweeper cover for a run 9.6 J Holder to Rossouw , no run , slower off-cutter just outside off , Rossouw goes early into the shot , ends up pushing it in the air , which falls in front of the point fielder 9.5 J Holder to Rossouw , FOUR , short delivery outside off , Rossouw rocks back and pulls it along the ground in front of square on the on-side for his second boundary 9.4 J Holder to Rossouw , no run , back of a length delivery in the channel outside off , Rossouw comes forward and defends it to short cover 9.3 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , good length delivery on off and middle , Amla walks across and whips it to deep square leg 9.2 J Holder to Rossouw , 1 run , length delivery on middle , Rossouw comes across and works it to deep mid-wicket 9.1 J Holder to Rossouw , FOUR , good length delivery just outside off , Rossouw comes on the front foot , opens the face of the bat and punches it between backward point and cover-point for a boundary 8.6 Benn to Rossouw , 1 run , floated on middle , Rossouw goes back and turns it to square leg for a run 8.5 Benn to Rossouw , no run , flighted delivery on off , Rossouw gets forward and defends it to the on-side 8.4 Benn to Rossouw , no run , shortens the length a touch , Rossouw goes back and blocks it A slip in place for Benn 8.3 Benn to Rossouw , no run , goes on the back foot and defends it to the off-side 8.2 Benn to Rossouw , no run , tossed up on off , Rossouw pushes it to mid-wicket 8.1 Benn to Rossouw , no run , flighted delivery on off , Rossouw comes forward and pushes it to mid-wicket Sulieman Benn , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack Spin for the first time as Benn is given the ball 7.6 J Holder to Amla , 2 runs , back of a length delivery on the hips , Amla comes across and whips it to deep backward square leg , they run hard and easily complete the second 7.5 J Holder to Rossouw , 1 run , fuller length delivery outside off , Rossouw comes forward and gets a bottom edge to third man 7.4 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , short of length delivery on off , Amla shuffles across and works it to mid-wicket 7.3 J Holder to Rossouw , 1 run , slower short delivery on middle , Rossouw mistimes the pull to deep backward square leg 7.2 J Holder to Rossouw , no run , fullish and a bit wide outside off , Rossouw comes forward and watches the ball go through to the keeper 7.1 J Holder to Rossouw , no run , slower off-cutter outside off , Rossouw lifts his bat and lets it go 6.6 Jerome Taylor to Amla , FOUR , short of length delivery on the pads , Amla shuffles across and tickles it away to the fine leg fence for another boundary 6.5 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Amla once again punches it to mid-off 6.4 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , bouncer at the batsman , Amla comes across and ducks under it 6.3 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Amla stays inside the crease and punches it to cover 6.2 Jerome Taylor to Amla , 2 runs , back of a length delivery on the hips , Amla goes back and tucks it to deep backward square leg 6.1 Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , 1 run , short of length delivery on off , Rossouw mistimes the pull towards deep backward square leg 5.6 J Holder to Amla , no run , on a length and around off , Amla gets well forward and blocks it back to the bowler 5.5 J Holder to Amla , no run , good length delivery on off , Amla opens the face of the bat and pushes it to point 5.4 J Holder to Amla , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Amla mistimes the drive to short cover 5.3 J Holder to Amla , 2 runs , fuller length delivery on off , Amla shuffles across and clips it off his pads to deep backward square leg for a couple 5.2 J Holder to Amla , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Amla goes back and punches it to cover-point 5.1 J Holder to Rossouw , leg byes , 1 run , short of good length ball on the pads , Rossouw misses the clip , the ball dribbles off the pads towards square leg 4.6 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , short of length delivery just around off , Amla punches it to mid-off 4.5 Jerome Taylor to Amla , FOUR , beautiful shot ! This was overpitched just outside off , Amla , without much foot movement , drives it to the right of the mid-off fielder for a boundary 4.4 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , on a length and just outside off , Amla comes across and works it to short mid-wicket 4.3 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , short of good length delivery just outside off , Amla punches it to mid-off 4.2 Jerome Taylor to Amla , 2 runs , straighter delivery on middle and off , Amla shuffles across and whips it to deep mid-wicket for a couple 4.1 Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , 1 run , good length delivery on off , Rossouw gets forward and pushes it to to mid-off for a run 3.6 J Holder to Amla , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Amla comes forward and defends , the ball goes off the inside half of the bat to mid-on 3.5 J Holder to Amla , FOUR , top-edge but results in a boundary. This was a short delivery on middle , Amla comes across and pulls it , gets a top-edge which goes over the short fine leg fielder for a boundary 3.4 J Holder to Amla , no run , fullish just outside off , Amla leans forward and drives it to mid-off 3.3 J Holder to Amla , no run , good length delivery around off , Amla comes on the front foot and defends it back to the bowler 3.2 J Holder to Amla , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Amla punches it to cover 3.1 J Holder to Amla , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Amla lifts his bat and lets it go 2.6 Jerome Taylor to Amla , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the hips , Amla camps on the back foot and nudges it to deep square leg for a run 2.5 Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , 1 run , short of length delivery on middle , Rossouw pulls it uncomfortably to deep square leg for a run 2.4 Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , no run , fuller length delivery swinging away a touch outside off , Rossouw goes for the drive and misses 2.3 Jerome Taylor to Amla , 1 run , short of length delivery on off , Amla goes back and works it to mid-on 2.3 Jerome Taylor to Amla , wide , bouncer down the leg-side , Amla ducks under it , the umpire calls it a wide Second slip fielder has now been shifted to short mid-wicket 2.2 Jerome Taylor to Amla , 2 runs , back of a length delivery on middle , Amla jumps inside the crease and tucks it to the vacant mid-wicket region for a brace 2.1 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Amla punches it to cover 1.6 J Holder to Rossouw , 2 runs , good length delivery outside off , Rossouw comes on the front foot and drives between extra cover and mid-off for a brace 1.5 J Holder to Rossouw , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Rossouw comes forward and plays a loose drive and misses 1.4 J Holder to Rossouw , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Rossouw blocks it back to the bowler 1.3 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , short of good length ball around off , Amla plays it with soft hands towards short cover for a quick single Two slips in place for Holder as well 1.2 J Holder to Rossouw , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the hips , Rossouw tucks it off the back foot to backward square leg 1.1 J Holder to Rossouw , no run , short of length delivery on the hips , Rossouw goes back and misses the nudge , gets hit on the stomach , the ball dribbles back to the bowler Jason Holder , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Jason Holder will partner Taylor at the other end 0.6 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , good bouncer to finish off the first over , Amla ducks under it 0.5 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , short of good length delivery around off , Amla punches it back to the bowler 0.4 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Amla shoulders arms 0.3 Jerome Taylor to Amla , FOUR , back of a length delivery just outside off , Amla goes on the back foot , gets on top of the bounce and punches it to the deep extra cover fence for a magnificent boundary 0.2 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , good length delivery wide outside off , Amla lifts his bat and lets it go 0.1 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , starts with a short delivery just outside off , Amla sways away from the line of the ball Amla and Rossouw are at the crease. Amla is on strike. Jerome Taylor will open the attack The West Indies team are in a huddle in the middle , Amla and Rossouw ae striding out to the middle. Amla will take the strike , Jerome Taylor will open the attack with two slips in place.. . Both teams remain unchanged from the previous ODI . Teams : South Africa ( Playing XI ) : Hashim Amla , Rilee Rossouw , Faf du Plessis , AB de Villiers ( w/c ) , Jean-Paul Duminy , David Miller , Farhaan Behardien , Vernon Philander , Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel , Imran Tahir West Indies ( Playing XI ) : Dwayne Smith , Chris Gayle , Leon Johnson , Marlon Samuels , Denesh Ramdin ( w ) , Jonathan Carter , Darren Sammy , Andre Russell , Jason Holder ( c ) , Jerome Taylor , Sulieman Benn West Indies have won the toss and have opted to field Hello and welcome to the second ODI between South Africa and West Indies. Today , the South African team will be playing in pink , in support of breast cancer awareness. Toss and teams coming up in a short while. Stay tuned . After Gayle got out , West Indies could n't keep up with the scoring rate and kept losing wickets at regular intervals. There was another rain delay and the game was cut short by another over , but it did n't matter as West Indies folded for 164. Tahir was the pick of the bowlers and he was well supported by Steyn and Philander . During the penultimate over of the South African innings , the heavens opened up and the innings had to be cut short. After a lengthy delay , West Indies came out to bat and were given a target of 229 in 33 overs at first. Chris Gayle was back to his belligerent batting , hitting the South African bowlers to all parts of the park , before departing for 41 . In the first ODI , South Africa completely outplayed the West Indies , emerging winners by 61 runs ( D/L method ) . Even though they started off poorly with the bat , Amla , de Villiers and Miller , all made 50-plus scores and helped their team go past 250 on a track that was offering good bounce and carry . Teams : West Indies ( From ) : Chris Gayle , Dwayne Smith , Leon Johnson , Marlon Samuels , Jonathan Carter , Denesh Ramdin ( w ) , Darren Sammy , Andre Russell , Jason Holder ( c ) , Sulieman Benn , Jerome Taylor , Narsingh Deonarine , Lendl Simmons , Sheldon Cottrell , Carlos Brathwaite South Africa ( From ) : Rilee Rossouw , Hashim Amla , Faf du Plessis , AB de Villiers ( c/w ) , David Miller , Jean-Paul Duminy , Farhaan Behardien , Vernon Philander , Dale Steyn , Imran Tahir , Morne Morkel , Wayne Parnell , Aaron Phangiso , Kyle Abbott , Morne van Wyk Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
