Quarter-final - 4 A4 v B1 Irrespective of where the Pool A teams qualify , the ICC had announced before the start of the tournament that Australia will play the quarter-final in Adelaide ( Fri , 20th Mar ) , New Zealand in Wellington ( Sat , 21st Mar ) , England in Melbourne ( Thu , 19th Mar ) and Sri Lanka in Sydney ( Wed , 18th Mar ) . Now that Bangladesh have made it to the knock out stage ahead of England , they will play their quarter-final in Melbourne ( Thu , 19th Mar ) . If a quarter-final is tied , abandoned or if the match is a no result , then the team that finished in the higher position in the Pool stage shall proceed to the semi-finals . Semi Final The winners of the quarter-finals will qualify for the semi-finals as follows : Semi Final 1 Winner QF 1 v Winner QF 3 Semi Final 2 Winner QF 2 v Winner QF 4 If a semi-final is tied , abandoned or if the match is a no result , then the team that finished in the higher position in the Pool stage shall proceed to the final . The winners of the semi-finals will contest the Final . Final If the Final is tied , the winner will be decided by a Super Over . If the Final is abandoned or if the match is a no result , then the teams will be declared joint winners . Net Run Rate A team ’ s net run rate is calculated by deducting from the average runs per over scored by that team throughout the competition , the average runs per over scored against that team throughout the competition . In the event of a team being all out in less than its full quota of overs , the calculation of its net run rate shall be based on the full quota of overs to which it would have been entitled and not on the number of overs in which the team was dismissed . Only those matches where results are achieved will count for the purpose of net run rate calculations. Where a match is abandoned , but a result is achieved under Duckworth/Lewis , for net run rate purposes Team 1 will be accredited with Team 2 ’ s Par Score on abandonment off the same number of overs faced by Team 2 . Where a match is concluded but with Duckworth/Lewis having been applied at an earlier point in the match , Team 1 will be accredited with 1 run less than the final Target Score for Team 2 off the total number of overs allocated to Team 2 to reach the target . In circumstances where a match ( and the points for such match ) is awarded to a team as a result of the other team ’ s refusal to play , either by the umpires in accordance with Law 21.3 ( a ) ( ii ) or in accordance with the provisions of the relevant event agreements signed by the participating teams , the net run rate of the defaulting team shall be affected in that the full 50 overs of the defaulting team ’ s innings in such forfeited match shall be taken into account in calculating the average runs per over of the defaulting team over the course of the relevant portion of the competition. For the avoidance of doubt the runs scored and overs bowled in such forfeited match will not be taken into account when calculating the net run rate of the team to whom the match was awarded . Latest Videos
