India are the World Champions The Toss confusion : There was confusion all around the Wankhede stadium even before the match got under way as the toss had to be repeated again. Nobody , including match referee Jeff Crowe , appeared to hear Sri Lanka captain Kumar Sangakkara 's call the first time. Sangakkara won the second toss and opted to bat first . Openers fail to make an impact : Sri Lankan openers have been amongst the top run-scorers in this tournament. Coming into the finals , Upul Tharanga and Tillakaratne Dilshan were expected to take Sri Lanka off to a solid start. Although they did not get off to the best of starts , it seemed the pair were seeing off the initial overs to launch a grand attack. But Zaheer Khan put a rest to these assumptions by getting rid of Upul Tharanga following which the dangerous Dilshan perished to Harbhajan Singh before he could cross 50 . Sanga and Mahela rescue Sri Lanka again : They are the best of friends and on the cricket field , they probably understand each other 's game much better than anyone else. And when they were called upon to help Sri Lanka out of a dicey situation , Kumar Sangakkara and Mahela Jayawardene promptly responded by putting on a good partnership to get the Sri Lankan score moving forward . Time is a healer for Mahela Jayawardene : The classy right-hander missed out during the 2007 finals against Australia , only managing to score 19 as the Kangraoos triumphed in Barbados. Eager to erase those memories , and the situation demanding Mahela to help Sri Lanka out of the pit after the dismissal of the skipper , the Lankan vice-captain answered the call with a brilliant knock to single-handedly power Sri Lanka towards a good total. Jayawardene reached his century in superb style with two successive boundaries off Zaheer Khan as he made the most on a grand stage , prospering when the country needed him the most . Sri Lanka prosper in Batting powerplay : Sri Lankan batting changed gears very quickly during the last five overs of their innings - the batting powerplay. Zaheer Khan and Harbhajan Singh were at the receiving end as Jayawardene and Kulasekara started the assault and after the latter fell towards the end , Thissara Perera took over. Much to the dismay of the Indian fans present at the Wankhede stadium , the boundary ropes played host to the brownish ball several times as 63 runs were added in the final 5 overs and Sri Lanka ended with a challenging total of 274/6 . A Malinga shock to the Indian openers : The crowd erupted as the Virender Sehwag and Sachin Tendulkar walked out to the middle , all set to create history. But the crowd 's joy was short-lived and they were left shocked and stunned in a matter of moments. Lasith Malinga might play for the Mumbai Indians , but the people of Mumbai would have hurled more than sweet-nothings at the pacer as he got Sri Lanka off to a dream start with the ball. First he trapped Virender Sehwag leg-before for a duck in the very first over. The stage then belonged to Sachin Tendulkar , who with his trademark straight drive and those silken hits between point and covers , looked intent to realize his dream of a World Cup trophy as well a hundredth ton. However , it was all anguish , silence and crest-fallen faces as Sachin Tendulkar edged a Malinga delivery to the waiting hands of Sangakkara and walked off the field more disappointed then ever . Gambhir and Kohli come to India 's rescue : An erry silence surrounded the ground when Gautam Gambhir and Virat Kohli were at the middle following the dismissal of the openers. The silence slowly transformed into slight smiles and then claps and then grand applause as Gambhir and Kohli steadily put on a crucial partnership during which Gambhir proved his worth with a vital half-century. The pair put on 83 runs before a brilliant catch by Dilshan off his own bowling resulted in the dismissal of Kohli on 35 . A captain 's knock : Gautam Gambhir was going strong despite Kohli 's departure and it was all possible due to the confidence exuded by MS Dhoni who supported the left-hander brilliantly. The Indian skipper seemed like a hare all set to win the race , scurrying along between the wickets and rotating the strike. While Gambhir steadily entered the seventies , eighties and the nineties , MS Dhoni , almost unnoticed , approached the 50-mark. More importantly , the pair took India closer to the nation 's dream. Gambhir deserved to score a hundred , but had himself to blame for missing out on the three-figure mark as he attempted to go for a wild shot off Perera only see see the stumps behind him shattered. This was when the captain took matters into his own hands , ensuring India 's path forward . A Nation 's dream realised : MS Dhoni and his team , before the start of the tournament , carried the entire nation 's dream. Nothing less than the Indian team lifting the 'Cup that Matters ' would have satisfied the Indian cricket fans. The Indian skipper , in Yuvraj Singh 's company , was intent in realising that dream. Normally composed , called the Captain Cool , Dhoni 's attitude in the middle was intense as well as emotional. Dhoni was stern and even angry when Yuvraj was not responding to his calls. And then he regained his composure and also tamed the nerves as he and Yuvraj took India closer. Then came the moment of glory , and what a way to get to that when the Indian skipper aptly hit the winning runs with a towering six off Kulasekara and brought the entire country standing and jumping in delight . The tears of joy : Ahmedabad - They conquered the Australians in the quarters , Mohali - They tamed the Pakistanis in the semis , and then came the big moment in Mumbai where they left the Sri Lankans crest-fallen. In June 1983 , Kapil 's Devils brought the West Indian run to an end at Lord 's and 28 years later , Dhoni 's Men in Blue re-created history as they captured the ultimate prize by beating Sri Lanka. It definitely was an emotional moment for the spirited men , and tears of joy were pouring out from the likes of Harbhajan , Sachin Tendulkar , Yuvraj , Dhoni and many other Indian players . They did it for Sachin and Gary : Before the World Cup started , all the Indian players said they will win the World Cup for Sachin Tendulkar and also Gary Kirsten. They did exactly as they had said and after the moment of glory , Sachin Tendulkar was carried by the Indian team members all around the ground in front of his home crowd and it was Gary Kirsten 's turn next as India 's best coach ended his stint with the Indian team on a glorious high .
