NZ vs Aus , Final Venue description : The Melbourne Cricket Club , founded in 1838 was forced to move several sites , before it could finally choose the current location , in Yarra Park , Melbourne , Victoria , to build the epic Melbourne Cricket Ground ( MCG ) stadium in 1853. The MCG , currently is the largest cricket stadium on earth and it is also the 11th largest stadium in the world. Cricket , Rugby and Australian Rules Football are the major sporting events held regularly at the MCG , while it has also played host to the 1956 Summer Olympics , the 2006 Commonwealth Games and a few of the FIFA World Cup qualifier games . The MCG is colloquially referred by the locals as 'The G'. Due to safety measures , the MCG 's capacity , which was well over 100000 , was reduced to its current arrangement. The MCG gave birth to the Test match format on March 15 , 1877 , when Australia and England took on each other in a timeless match. Since then , the ground has been center-stage to over 100 Test matches , including the famous Boxing Day Test match , that is held every year on December 26. Interestingly , cricket 's first ODI match was also held at the MCG . The 171m x 146m field at the MCG is surrounded by four stands - Great Southern Stand , MCC Members ' Reserve , Olympic Stand and Ponsford Stand - named in honour of Victorian batsman Bill Ponsford. From the first wooden members ' stand in 1854 , the MCG has seen a series of enhancements to take its current shape. The infamous Bay 13 , known as one of the worst behaved sections in the cricketing fraternity , is a part of the Southern Stand . The first scoreboard at the MCG was built in 1882. Since then , it has taken many forms and is currently the best and the largest scoreboard available in Australia - state-of-the-art LED-high-definition screen which is 25.24 metres wide and 13.17 metres high. The current facility enables one to see both , batting and bowling cards on one screen. Also , it was at the MCG that Australia 's first full colour video scoreboard was put in place. The world 's first all-colour cricket scoreboard with instant replays was installed at the MCG . How does the pitch play ? The 22-yards at the MCG is considered to be one of the most competitive surfaces in the world. It offers a fine balance between bat and ball. While the bowlers get some assistance early on with mostly genuine bounce , as it gets old , the batsmen can play their strokes freely. However , generally , the spinners do not get much of a purchase at the MCG . Since 1996 , MCG has been host to the drop-in pitches . What is a drop-in pitch ? A drop-in pitch is a cricket pitch which is prepared away from the ground or venue in which it is used , and literally " dropped in " to place for a cricket match. This allows multi-purpose venues to host other sports and events with more versatility than a dedicated cricket ground would allow. ( source : Wikipedia ) For more about drop-in pitches , have a look at this link Interesting facts about the MCG : It was at the MCG , on February 11 , 1984 , that an ODI ended in a tie for the first time , both West Indies and Australia made 222 . The MCG is referred to as the 'Spiritual Home of Australian Sport' . The light towers at the MCG are the tallest for any sporting venue across the globe . According to a rumour , on January 2 , 1955 , groundsman Jack House decided to water the pitch on the rest day of the 3rd Ashes Test match between Australia and England to save the 22 yards , after it developed huge cracks on a hot Saturday. However , the Victorian Cricket Association and the Melbourne Cricket Club held an inquiry into the matter and denied the rumour . On January 2 , 1961 , West Indies ' Joe Solomon was ruled out hit-wicket , after his hat fell onto the stumps while playing at a Richie Benaud delivery . In 1981 , Indian batsman Sunil Gavaskar took Chetan Chauhan off the field in a Test match , after being disappointed with an LBW decision against him . The infamous incident of Greg Chappell , Australia 's captain , asking Trevor Chappell to under-arm the final delivery of the match , when New Zealand needed a six off the last ball to the tie the ODI , took place at the MCG on February 1 , 1981. Although it was not against the laws , the incident was considered as 'against the spirit of the game.' It was at this ground , in 1995 , that umpire Darrell Hair called Sri Lankan spinner Muttiah Muralitharan for throwing the ball ( chucking ) , seven times during the Boxing Day Test match . The MCG is part of the yearly-Melbourne Marathon and has also hosted a few rock concerts . On 27 August 1999 , an electrical fault caused the city end scoreboard to catch fire , thereby delaying the start of an AFL match by half an hour . The MCG is where the Super Sopper was used for the first time . On Day 1 of the 2013 Boxing Day Test between Australia and England a crowd count of 91,092 , was a record for a single-day attendance in Test match history . During World War II , from 1942 to 1945 , the MCG was used for military purposes and more than 200,000 personnel camped at the venue . Australia 's first ever bicycle race was held at the MCG in 1869 . The MCG also hosted Victoria 's first ever Tennis game in 1878 . By MS Ramakrishnan
