Apr 18 , 2008 Brendon McCullum 's hostile 158 * kick-starts the tournament with a bang The league got off to a blistering start as Baz 's 158 * off 73 balls helped Kolkata Knight Riders thrash Royal Challengers Bangalore in the opening game of the tournament. His innings was the highest individual score in the history of the tournament ; until Chris Gayle went one better - making 175 * against Pune Warriors in the 2013 edition. It included 13 sixes and 10 fours. Riding on his big innings , Kolkata posted a mammoth 222 on the board. The team from the land of the rasogullas eventually emerged victorious by a huge margin of 140 runs as Bangalore got bowled out for a paltry 82. McCullum 's blazing knock set the tone for the tournament , helping the Indian Premier League become an instant hit . Royal Challengers Bangalore vs Kolkata Knight Riders 1st match , Bengaluru Apr 19 , 2008 Michael Hussey 's hundred gives Chennai a scintillating start On the very next day after the McCullum show , Michael Hussey showed the world why he was a force to reckon with , even in the shorter formats. His superb innings of 116 off just 54 balls helped Chennai amass the highest total of the 2008 season. Not just this , Chennai 's 240/5 against Punjab continues to be the third highest team total in the competition till date. In reply , Punjab managed to cross 200 as well , but in the end , Chennai won by 33 runs . Kings XI Punjab vs Chennai Super Kings 2nd match , Mohali Apr 22 , 2008 Sehwag 's 30 runs off Symonds ' over sinks Hyderabad After restricting the team from Hyderabad to 142 in 20 overs , Sehwag 's onslaught brought about the home team 's downfall. The game will always be remembered for the belligerent display of power-hitting from the Nawab of Najafgarh. Sehwag was especially severe on Australian all-rounder Andrew Symonds. Symonds , who had only given away 5 runs in his first over , went for 30 in his second. Sehwag smashed him to all parts of the park , with the over reading : 4 6 4 6 4 6 . Deccan Chargers vs Delhi Daredevils 7th match , Hyderabad Apr 24 , 2008 Rajasthan Royals record the highest successful run-chase After Andrew Symonds ' ton helped Hyderabad score 214 batting first , Rajasthan managed to pull off an improbable win off the penultimate ball of the 20th over. Yusuf Pathan and Graeme Smith were the chief architects of the win , putting together a 98-run stand for the second wicket. However , it was Shane Warne , who played the role of a finisher for his team. Symonds , who was the hero with the bat , turned out to be the villain with the ball. With 17 runs needed off the last over , Warne hit him for a four and 2 sixes , winning it for the visitors with a ball to go . Deccan Chargers vs Rajasthan Royals 9th match , Hyderabad Apr 25 , 2008 The Slapgate controversy : When Harbhajan Singh slapped S Sreesanth Harbhajan Singh , who was the central figure in the ' Monkeygate controversy ' during India 's tour Down Under in 2007/08 , was in the news again for all the wrong reasons. This time Harbhajan had slapped his Indian teammate and Punjab 's bowler S Sreesanth , who was seen crying on the field after the game. The incident took place after Punjab handed Mumbai their third consecutive defeat at the start of the season. Harbhajan was found guilty of the slapping charge and was banned for the remaining 11 games of the season. Subsequently , he was banned for 5 ODIs as well . Kings XI Punjab vs Mumbai Indians 10th match , Mohali Apr 29 , 2008 Mumbai win their first game of the tournament After losing their first 4 games of the tournament , Mumbai started their 6-match winning streak with a victory over Kolkata. Jayasuriya 's 3/14 did n't let Kolkata go past 140 , but at one stage , Mumbai were also struggling at 25/3. Luckily for Mumbai , an unbeaten 113-run stand between Robin Uthappa and Dwayne Bravo eventually gave them their first win of the tournament . Kolkata Knight Riders vs Mumbai Indians 16th match , Kolkata May 01 , 2008 Shaun Marsh arrives in style On his IPL debut , Shaun Marsh scored a magnificent 84 * to announce himself to the world. Selected on the basis of his performances in domestic cricket , Marsh , who was not part of the big-money IPL auction , proved to be the most potent striker for Punjab from that point onwards. Punjab cruised to a 7-wicket win over the Chargers and Shaun Marsh cemented his place at the top of the order . Deccan Chargers vs Kings XI Punjab 19th match , Hyderabad May 04 , 2008 Tanvir 's 6-fer demolishes Chennai Rajasthan 's Sohail Tanvir produced an amazing spell , helping his team bowl out Chennai for just 109. His figures of 4-0-14-6 were not only the best bowling figures of the inaugural season , but continue to top the all time charts of the tournament. He was ferocious with the ball , dismissing both the Chennai openers for a duck ( Parthiv Patel and Stephen Fleming ) in the very first over of the game. At the end , Rajasthan flocked home easily with 8 wickets in hand . Rajasthan Royals vs Chennai Super Kings 24th match , Jaipur May 08 , 2008 Ganguly 's bowling exploits win it for Kolkata A Man of the Match award for Sourav Ganguly ? If one had missed the game , everyone in his/her right mind would somehow associate it with his batting. However , on this occasion , Ganguly turned out to be unlikely hero with the ball. His figures of 3-0-7-1 proved to be the difference as Bangalore 's batsmen failed to chase down Kolkata 's total of 129. Eventually , Kolkata won by 5 runs . Kolkata Knight Riders vs Royal Challengers Bangalore 29th match , Kolkata May 10 , 2008 Balaji bags the first hat-trick of the tournament After posting 181 on the board , Chennai 's Lakshmipathy Balaji took the first hat-trick of the competition , helping his team win by 18 runs. Balaji took the wickets of Irfan Pathan , Piyush Chawla and VRV Singh in the last over of the match. He ended up with figures of 5/24 that earned him the Man of the Match award as well. Delhi 's Amit Mishra and Balaji 's Chennai teammate Makhaya Ntini also picked up hat-tricks later in the season , but Balaji 's achievement will always remain first in the league 's history . Chennai Super Kings vs Kings XI Punjab 31st match , Chennai May 16 , 2008 Kolkata get bowled out for just 67 In the 38th game of the inaugural season , Kolkata got skittled out for a meagre 67. It was the lowest total of the first season and continues to be second on the all time list of the lowest team scores in the Indian Premier League. This was Mumbai 's fifth win on the trot and Shaun Pollock 's superb spell of 3/12 set it up for them. The home team was also in a hurry to finish things off as Jayasuriya 's 48 off 17 balls helped Mumbai achieved the target in just the sixth over of the innings . Mumbai Indians vs Kolkata Knight Riders 38th match , Mumbai May 21 , 2008 Yuvraj 's Rhodes-esque run-out clinches a thriller for Punjab After winning six games in a row , Yuvraj Singh 's Punjab finally stopped the Mumbai charge in a nail-biting finish. With 2 runs needed off the last ball and just a wicket left , the match was interestingly poised. At the end , a moment of brilliance from Yuvraj won the game for Punjab. Yuvraj pulled off a brilliant diving effort to run-out Vikrant Yeligati. The mode of dismissal reminded a lot of Jonty Rhodes ' superman effort to run-out Inzamam-ul-Haq at the 1992 World Cup , a wicket that turned the game on its head . Mumbai Indians vs Kings XI Punjab 45th match , Mumbai May 26 , 2008 Nerves cost Mumbai a spot in the final four Mumbai lost out on another 2 points and eventually , a semi-final spot as they ended up on the losing side in another very close finish. Rajasthan needed 3 runs off the last ball , but the pressure got to the bowler - Dilhara Fernando. First , he bowled a wide and then he failed to stop a mistimed pull off his own bowling when the hosts needed 2 to win. The batsmen then took on the fielder at mid-on and hared back for the second in search for victory. The batsman would have been short of his ground had Jayasuriya whipped the bails off , but a poor collection spelt doomsday for Mumbai. Mumbai 's close defeats to Punjab and Rajasthan dented their hopes of qualifying for the semis. Eventually , they failed to qualify by a mere point even though they won their last game . Rajasthan Royals vs Mumbai Indians 53rd match , Jaipur May 30 , 2008 Watson 's all-round show puts Rajasthan in the final Shane Watson 's dream run in the tournament continued as his fifty in the first innings helped Rajasthan cross the 190-run mark in the first semi-final. If his batting performance was not enough , his bowling figures of 3/10 in 3 overs sealed the final berth for Rajasthan. Delhi were bowled out for 87 and Rajasthan won by a huge margin of 105 runs . Delhi Daredevils vs Rajasthan Royals 1st Semi-Final , Mumbai Jun 01 , 2008 Yusuf Pathan 's heroics give Rajasthan the title The final of the inaugural season was the battle of the giants. Both teams reached the final after massive wins in their respective semi-final games. If Rajasthan won their semi convincingly , Chennai was no different as they thumped Punjab by 9 wickets. The game lived up to all the hype and expectations as it turned out to be a cliffhanger. Yusuf Pathan produced another match-winning performance to help his team win the title . Batting first , Chennai got off to a decent start and were 75/2 at the end of 10 overs , with Suresh Raina slowly starting to get into his groove. However , the Baroda man had different plans altogether. He kept a tight leash on the Chennai batsmen during the middle overs , picking up 3 wickets and ending with bowling figures of 4-0-22-3. Chennai could never really get going and finished with 163 on the board . Rajasthan did n't get off to a great start though as they were reduced to 42/3 in the 7th over. Pathan and Watson then got together for a 65-run partnership that helped Rajasthan achieve some sort of stability in their run-chase. Pathan registered yet another fifty , but fell in the 18th over , with his team needing 21 to win. It could have been very tricky for Rajasthan , but Warne and Tanvir made sure that there were no more hiccups and Rajasthan eventually won , albeit off the last ball of the game. Rajashtan were the most consistent team during the tournament , winning 13 out of their 16 round-robin games . Chennai Super Kings vs Rajasthan Royals Final , Mumbai
