N. Srinivasan Replies to Supreme Court , Says All Allegations Against him are False N. Srinivasan Replies to Supreme Court , Says All Allegations Against him are False N. Srinivasan , seeking another term as the president of the Board of Control for Cricket in India , continued to claim his innocence in the Supreme Court during the IPL scam hearing . Last updated on Tuesday , 02 December , 2014 12 : 03 IST Total Shares File photo of N. Srinivasan . © AFP Board of Control for Cricket in India 's suspended president N. Srinivasan remained defiant , telling the Supreme Court on Monday , that all allegations against him are false. In a previous hearing , the court had raised issues of conflict of interest against Srinivasan. The court had also said that Srinivasan needed to answer questions regarding his son-in-law and Chennai Super Kings official Gurunath Meiyappan , who was indicted for betting in IPL 2013 . The court had previously made a strong comment , saying Meiyappan 's role in IPL scam was like 'insider trading. ' ( IPL scam : A Timeline ) " I acted with speed when I got to know about allegations against my son-in-law. BCCI launched a complaint against Meiyappan and Raj Kundra , " Srinivasan told the apex court. ( India Cements shares sink due to IPL scam ) Srinivasan 's counsel Kapil Sibal stressed that a BCCI panel set up to probe the scam was constituted on the suggestion of Arun Jaitley , who was of the view that the inquiry should be free from BCCI 's interference . The two-member Supreme Court Bench comprising of Justice TS Thakur and FMI Kalifulla said , " You are repeatedly naming Jaitley who is not represented here. He is not a party here. Do n't attribute it to a person who is not represented here. " BCCI in its working committee meeting on May 28 , 2013 had set up a three-member Commission comprising two retired judges as independent members and and one from the board with Srinivasan asking the Board to proceed against Meiyappan , who was an official of CSK , Sibal said . He added that there was a suggestion in this regard from Arun Jaitley , who was of the view that there should not be interference by the Board into the probe . However , the bench showered questions on the appointment of the commission and even observed " was it on the concurrence of the BCCI President " . " Who was at the helm of the working committee meeting ? Who was heading the meeting ? , " the bench asked when Sibal was making the submissions . The court also asked the BCCI to submit a note on the financial model of the Indian Premier League ; as to how players are purchased and how franchises recover their money. The hearing will resume on December 8 when Srinivasan 's lawyer Sibal is expected to make further arguments on the conflict of interest issue . ( With inputs from PTI ) Story first published on : Monday , 01 December 2014 13 : 08 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS BCCI
