ICC Cricket World Cup - Missing Legends XI Sachin Tendulkar India will miss the services of their run-machine , who holds multiple World Cup records , including the record for most runs in the event , most hundreds and most fifty + scores . Virender Sehwag A game-changer at the top of the order , Sehwag 's dream of becoming only the third Indian player with 1000 + World Cup runs was shattered when he was ignored by the Indian selectors for the 2015 edition . Ricky Ponting Most World Cup matches , second highest run-scorer in the event , most catches , most wins as captain , only two losses - Australia will have to wait a while before they find their next Ricky Ponting . Graeme Smith A successful skipper with an astute mind , a quality opening batsman and bucket-like hands while catching the ball - South Africa will miss all these as they embark upon a new journey . Jacques Kallis The fifth highest run-getter , a consistent wicket-taker , safe pair of hands , a perfect allrounder - this is what South Africa will miss in the 2015 World Cup . Shivnarine Chanderpaul West Indies ' Mr. Consistent , a tough opponent for the bowlers and one of the pillars of the Caribbean team 's batting order will no longer be seen in a maroon jersey . Yuvraj Singh The hero of the 2011 World Cup is not part of India 's new order as the selectors decided it was time for some fresh legs . Jacob Oram One amongst the top-ten wicket-takers in the World Cup , a handy batsman down the order , and a safe fielder - Oram 's allround skills will be missed by New Zealand . Brett Lee A consistent performer and one of three Australians on the list of highest wicket-takers in the World Cup , Brett Lee has the best average among those in the top ten. He missed the 2007 World Cup due to an injury after being named in the initial squad . Muttiah Muralitharan The second highest wicket-taker in World Cups , the highest wicket-taker for Sri Lanka , one of only three with 50 + wickets in the world event and the bowler with the most four wicket hauls among the top 10 - finding a player to fit into the boots of the spin legend is a tough task for Sri Lanka . Shoaib Akhtar A lethal weapon in Pakistan 's arsenal and one of the quickest bowlers in the world , batsmen will heave a sigh of relief as they will not be facing the 'Rawalpindi Express ' in the 2015 World Cup . © 2015 Cricbuzz.com , Times Internet Limited . All rights reserved | The Times of India
