India vs Sri Lanka , Final The win was dedicated to Sachin as the Indian team carried him around the ground . Dhoni hit an unbeaten 91 and had Yuvraj for company till the end to help India beat Sri Lanka by 6 wickets and clinch the World Cup . Dhoni and Yuvraj then scored steadily , taking India closer . Gambhir fell 3 short of a well-deserved 100 , falling to Perera . Dhoni crossed 6000 runs in ODIs en route to getting to his 38th ODI fifty . The Gambhir-Dhoni partnership crossed 100 as the pair put India in control . Gambhir played with a composed head as the required runs came below 100 . Dhoni was involved in a good partnership with Gambhir to take India forward . Dilshan held on to a brilliant catch off his own bowling resulting in Kohli 's dismissal on 35 . Kohli rotated the strike well as he and Gambhir brought India back into the game . Kohli rotated the strike well as he and Gambhir brought India back into the game . The pair put in a crucial fifty-run stand . Gambhir and Kohli got together and led a steady recovery with a good partnership . Malinga dealth a deadly blow to the Indian chase by dismissing Sachin Tendulkar . Tendulkar though did not let the early dismissal of Sehwag affect him as he played positively to take India forward . Sri Lanka had a dream start when Malinga dismissed Sehwag for a duck in the very first over . Kulasekara was run-out towards the end but Mahela scored an unbeaten 103 and Perera came up with a quick-fire 22 to help Sri Lanka to a total of 274/6 . Jayawardene got the maximum out of the batting powerplay , going on to bring up a fine hundred . Mahela played solidly and was involved in a good partnership with Kulasekara . Zaheer then tricked Kapugedara with a slower delivery to pick up his 2nd wicket . Yuvraj trapped Samaraweera leg-before , once again a decision referred to the third umpire and replays proved that the batsman was out . Mahela and Samaraweera put on a fifty run stand to take Sri Lanka forward . Samaraweera survived a caught behind appeal which was referred and turned down . Mahela continued playing steadily as he went on to reach his 57th ODI fifty . Sangakkara fell against the run of play on 48 , outside edging a Yuvraj Singh delivery to Dhoni . Mahela 's arrival saw the scoring rate going up as he and Sanga took their partnership past 50 . Sanga and Mahela then started playing the strokes to up the run-rate . The stand came to an end when Dilshan was bowled by Harbhajan Singh . The pair put on a steady partnership . Dilshan and Sangakkara consolidated to take the score forward . The persistance paid off when Zaheer got rid of Tharanga . Indian seamers maintained a tight line and the Lankan openers could not get off to a rapid start . Nita Ambani , Aamir Khan , Preity Zinta and Mukesh Ambani watch from the stands . Indian team line up for the national anthem . Muralitharan greets Tendulkar before the start of the match . The coin was tossed again and Sangakkara , who called it right , opted to bat . There was some confusion during the toss as the Match referee did not hear the call for the first time . Sri Lankan fans coming out in support of their side . Indian fans before the start of the finals . © 2015 Cricbuzz.com , Times Internet Limited . All rights reserved | The Times of India
