Sourav Ganguly backs India to retain World Cup Bengaluru , Wed , Oct 15 2014 Last updated on Friday , 02 January , 2015 , 09 : 50 AM Sourav Ganguly believes India are good enough to retain their World Cup crown . Sourav Ganguly believes India has the ability to defend their World Cup crown. © Getty Former Indian captain , Sourav Ganguly , believes MS Dhoni 's team , has a good chance of retaining their 2011 World Cup. India will go into the 2015 tournament as one of the favourites alongside hosts Australia and South Africa . " India have got a good chance of defending the World Cup. They are a very good One-Day International ( ODI ) side wherever they play. Whether it is Australia or England , they are a top one-day side , " Ganguly told IANS in an interview . " Test matches overseas are an issue , but I am not really too worried about ODI performances and I think they will do well in Australia and New Zealand , " he added . India are due to travel to Australia in the third week of November. They will play 4 Tests and will also feature in a triangular series , also involving England. While this gives the team plenty of time to get acclimatized to the local conditions , there is also a worry that it may lead to a burn-out before the biggest tournament of the sport. The former Indian captain though , ruled out chances of the team getting jaded and tired before the World Cup . " The players will get accustomed , but I do n't think they will get tired. They should not be thinking about this at all whether they are getting tired or not. The team will get a two-week break after the tri-series. They will come back to India and then go for the World Cup. A two-week break is enough these days , " said the 42-year-old . India 's recent Test record particularly overseas is nothing to be proud of and Ganguly felt they need to work extremely hard to compete with the Australians on an even footing. " It is going to be a tough tour. India will really have to play well to compete with Australia and I hope they do because for me the strength and weakness of Indian cricket is how they play overseas , " said the left-hander who led India to the final of the 2003 World Cup in South Africa . With the World Cup fast approaching , Ganguly said this was n't the time to think about split captaincy. " Not till the World Cup. We will see after that how India does , " quipped Ganguly . Virat Kohli struggled through the length of the England tour but Ganguly believes that the middle order batsman is just going through a lean patch and is quite capable of getting over his technical deficiencies. " He is just going through a phase where he is struggling with his form and it happens to everyone. You play for a period of time and you hit these patches and he has hit a patch from which he will come out , " Ganguly said in defence of Kohli . " If there is a technical issue , I am sure he will sort it out. It happens to various players in various times of their careers. For me , he is a class act. Look at the amount of runs he has scored in the last four years and you can not be ordinary and score all those runs for four years , " he added . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
