South Africa name 30-man probables squad for Cricket World Cup 2015 Johannesburg , Wed , Dec 03 2014 Last updated on Friday , 02 January , 2015 , 10 : 19 AM Cricket South Africa ( CSA ) today named the preliminary 30-man squad for the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 as required by the tournament regulations. The final squad of 15 will be named in January . © AFP Cricket South Africa ( CSA ) today named the preliminary 30-man squad for the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 as required by the tournament regulations. The final squad of 15 will be named in January . Mthokozisi Shezi , the left-arm medium fast bowler known for his myriad variations , has been given a chance on the back of fine performances in domestic cricket. Andrew Puttick , who played his only ODI against New Zealand at Cape Town back in 2005 , is a surprise inclusion. Veteran wicket-keeper-batsman , Morne van Wyk , too has been picked in the preliminary squad . South Africa also have included Kagiso Rabada , the quick bowler. By taking 6 for 25 in the Under-19 World Cup semi-final played against Australia in Dubai , the youngster showed glimpses of his ability to bowl with good pace. Kyle Abbott , known for his ability to bowl well in the end overs , is another one to watch out for . The likes of Rabada , Abbott , Chris Morris , Marchant de Lange , Shezi and Beuran Hendricks though , may find it tough to make it into the final squad of 15. Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel , Wayne Parnell and Philander are expected to be selected in the squad of 15 . AB de Villiers , as expected , has been named as the captain. Hashim Amla , Dale Steyn , Faf du Plessis , JP Duminy and Morne Morkel are some of the other key players in the South African unit. It has to be said though that Duminy has been struggling with a knee injury and South Africa will hope that he can overcome the setback by the time the World Cup starts . Aaron Phangiso , Robin Peterson and Imran Tahir are the spinners included in the probables list. Tahir , with his googly , has turned out to be a fine spinner for South Africa in ODIs. Peterson and Phangiso bowl with decent control. Peterson is also a useful lower-order batsmen . CWC preliminary squad : AB de Villiers ( capt ) , Hashim Amla ( vice-capt ) , Kyle Abbott , Farhaan Behardien , Quinton de Kock , Marchant de Lange , JP Duminy , Faf du Plessis , Dean Elgar , Beuran Hendricks , Reeza Hendricks , Imran Tahir , Rory Kleinveldt , Ryan Mclaren , David Miller , Morne Morkel , Chris Morris , Justin Ontong , Wayne Parnell , Robin Peterson , Aaron Phangiso , Vernon Philander , Andrew Puttick , Kagiso Rabada , Rilee Rossouw , Mthokozisi Shezi , Dale Steyn , Lonwabo Tsotsobe , Morne van Wyk , David Wiese . © Cricbuzz
