World Cup Heroes : Kapil 's dream run in the 1983 edition Fri , Dec 26 2014 by Gokul Gopal Last updated on Sunday , 25 January , 2015 , 02 : 22 PM Kapil Dev defined leading from the front in the 1983 World Cup © Agencies One of only five batsmen to aggregate more than 300 runs in the 1983 World Cup , registering the highest individual score in the 1983 edition , one among the top ten wicket-takers , an economy rate of 2.91 , most number of catches , a match-turning catch and a historic moment atop the Lord 's balcony - this was Kapil Dev 's journey in the Prudential World Cup in England in 1983 . Highlights of Kapil 's fascinating tournament : 175 * against Zimbabwe : India started the tournament well , winning their first two matches against West Indies and Zimbabwe. However , their campaign was derailed as they suffered back-to-back losses against Australia and West Indies. They were on the verge of losing their third on the trot when they were reduced 17/5 by Zimbabwe. It soon became 77/6 and 78/7. Having seen wickets fall like nine pins , skipper , Kapil , decided to counter-attack and he did so brilliantly by scoring an unbeaten 175 off just 138 deliveries , with 14 fours and 6 sixes. While all appeared lost for India when the top-order was blown away , Kapil 's 126-run stand with Syed Kirmani lifted India to 266/8. Zimbabwe managed to reach 235 before they folded , and had it not been for their captain , India would not only have suffered a huge humiliation but their confidence would have also taken a beating . Bowling them over : Kapil also starred in the semi-final match against England , picking up 3/35 in 11 overs as he cleaned up the lower order to bowl out the opposition for 213. Earlier , he had managed to bother the mighty Australians as well with a five-wicket haul which also went on to be his best figures in an ODI . The catch that turned the match : However , the biggest moment of the 1983 World Cup came in the final between West Indies and India , played at Lord 's. With Andy Roberts , Malcom Marshall , Michael Holding and Joel Garner doing a fine job with the ball , all India could muster was a total of 183. In reply , West Indies lost Gordon Greenidge early , but Viv Richards was going great guns at the other end as he flayed the Indian bowling apart. With the help of 7 boundaries , Richards crossed 30 in quick time and if he had continued in the same vein , India 's hopes would have been dashed in a matter of overs . At such a stage with Richards putting so much pressure on India , not many fancied the subcontinent side to counter the storm. However , they did that and it was all thanks to Kapil. Richards , on 33 , top-edged a pull off Madan Lal to mid-wicket and the ball travelled miles in the air. Kapil , who was stationed at mid-on , had to run back and across to his right. He had a lot of distance to cover and not many gave him a chance but Kapil defied all odds as he ran like a hare , focussed on the ball , and not caring about what was happening around him. As everyone at the ground and those watching on television screens waited with bated breath , Kapil cupped both hands held on to the ball safely , and he did so quite comfortably in the end. It was a brilliant piece of athleticism that helped India spring back into the game. West Indies lost their next three wickets for just 19 runs and were eventually bowled out 43 runs short . It was India 's first taste of success in a major International event and fittingly , Kapil was the first Indian to lift the trophy at Lord 's and kick-started a new chapter in Indian cricket . Kapil 's numbers in the tournament : Matches
