ICC Cricket World Cup , 2015 Countdown # 49 - Wasim deals the death blows Fri , Dec 26 2014 by Gokul Gopal Last updated on Friday , 02 January , 2015 , 11 : 45 AM The wizard with the magic arm delivered when it mattered the most © Getty Back-to-back losses against India and South Africa had left Pakistan in a dicey position in the 1992 World Cup. They were struggling to make it to the knock-out stage and an inferior run-rate was not helping their cause. However , they managed to overcome the hurdles and scraped through to the semis as they finished the group stage with 9 points , just one more than Australia and West Indies . After that , it was time for Pakistan to make a statement. Always considered a mercurial side , they eased past New Zealand in the final-four round to set up the summit clash against England. It was in this game that Wasim Akram showcased his prowess as a world-class pace bowler , who could change the fortunes of his side in a matter of deliveries. Pakistan had posted a respectable total of 249/6 but England , after early jitters , kept themselves in the hunt as Allan Lamb and Neil Fairbrother put on a fine 72-run stand for the 5th wicket . Skipper Imran , having seen the way the English pair were batting with ease against the old ball , decided to give his premium pacer , Wasim a go in the 35th over. It turned out to be the most important decision taken by the captain for the over was game-changing and decisive. Lamb was on strike , not-out on 31 , when Wasim bowled the first ball from round the stumps and pitched it on a good length. The England batsman , expecting the delivery to come in with the angle , put his foot forward and played for the line. However , the ball held its line after pitching , squaring up the batsman , who had no clue whatsoever as he saw the ball crash onto the stumps. The partnership was broken but England batted deep and one good stand could have still taken them through. Wasim was not done yet. Chris Lewis , who was the next man in , was clearly clueless about the way the ball was going to shape out of Wasim 's hand. He was in two minds and tried to play Wasim 's delivery to the off-side , only to inside-edge it onto the stumps . From 141/4 before the start of the over , England slipped to 141/6. England , stunned by the sudden and quick blows , could not recover after that and eventually folded out for 227 as Pakistan secured a historic victory. Wasim , who finished with figures of 3/49 , was named the Player of the Match and it was his brilliance with the ball that completed Pakistan 's remarkable roller-coaster journey in the 1992 World Cup . © Cricbuzz
