World Cup Countdown # 40 - Shoaib Akhtar unleashes demons with a yorker from hell Sun , Jan 04 2015 by Ganesh Chandrasekaran Last updated on Sunday , 04 January , 2015 , 12 : 18 PM Shoaib Akhtar 's spectacular yorker to dismiss a well set Stephen Fleming was one of the most enduring images of the 1999 World Cup A flat pitch did little to contain Akhtar 's ferocity © Getty It was the World Cup semi-final , at Old Trafford , in 1999. Both Pakistan and New Zealand had everything to play for , obviously. Stephen Fleming , New Zealand 's skipper , chose to bat and the Black Caps were in trouble very soon. They lost their top 3 with more than 2/3rds of the innings left. Fleming strode in and began the repair work in earnest , with Roger Twose. The duo added 94 for the 4th wicket and Fleming was looking increasingly in control... until Pakistan captain Wasim Akram brought on Shoaib Akhtar for another spell . Young Akhtar had only one thing on his mind - pace , pace and more pace. The pulsating run-up and uncorking before delivery was stuff that made spectators always sit up in anticipation. Akhtar did not disappoint. He galloped in and unleashed the fiercest of yorkers. Fleming jammed his bat down but only after the ball had sent the leg stump cartwheeling. Akhtar 's sprint , the leap , the sling , the stumps exploding and the energised celebrations are images that simply do n't age. That sight was one of the most enduring images of the 1999 World Cup in England and has been immortalized in a million YouTube clips thereafter . New Zealand were scarred mentally after Fleming 's dismissal. Akthar had been threatening throughout that game , but Fleming 's dismissal exposed the kind of destruction he was capable of. The threat of Akhtar was always looming from that moment , and his imposing presence was one of the chief reasons New Zealand were kept down to less than 250. Pakistan chased it down on a canter. That Akhtar was chosen as the Man of the Match despite a hundred from Saeed Anwar re-iterated the kind of impact he had on the game despite being the most expensive Pakistan bowler that day . © Cricbuzz
