Yuvraj Singh omitted from India World Cup squad ; Binny , Jadeja in Tue , Jan 06 2015 Last updated on Tuesday , 06 January , 2015 , 12 : 46 PM India 's fifteen-man squad for the World Cup throws up little surprise. Yuvraj Singh did not make the cut despite good domestic form . All of India 's pacers will be playing in a 50-over World Cup for the first time. © Getty India 's 15-man squad for ICC Cricket World Cup , 2015 has been announced. One of the biggest questions leading up to the selection meeting was if Yuvraj Singh will make the final cut. The left-hander has been in prolific form in the Ranji Trophy , notching up three tons on the trot , but did not find a place in the squad. Virender Sehwag , too , caught attention with back-to-back centuries for Delhi in the Ranji trophy , but was not picked either . The selection committee met in Mumbai to finalise the squad and were joined by Dhoni and coach , Duncan Fletcher via teleconference. Defending champions India have only 4 survivors from their 2011 campaign - MS Dhoni , Suresh Raina , Virat Kohli and R Ashwin. The rest of the squad will be featuring in the 50-over World Cup for the first time . Ravindra Jadeja , who is recovering from a shoulder injury , has been picked with two other spinners , R Ashwin and Axar Patel. The squad does not have an additional back-up wicket-keeper for MS Dhoni but Ambati Rayudu is expected to fill in that slot. Robin Uthappa , who has also been in excellent form through the domestic season , and a possible choice as back-up wicket-keeper , has been overlooked in favour of Rayudu. Stuart Binny is the lone seam-bowling all-rounder in the squad . This will be the first World Cup for all of India 's fast bowlers - Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Ishant Sharma , Mohd Shami and Umesh Yadav. The three spinners picked - Ashwin , Jadeja and Axar- are also more than handy with the bat . Ravindra Jadeja has been included in the squad although he is nursing a injury but the selectors took the call after consulting the physio , Nitin Patel . " Jadeja , at present , is undergoing a rehabilitation program. He is doing wonderfully well. Today , we had a detailed discussion with the physio of BCCI and we are quite hopeful that , within next ten days , he will be fit , " said BCCI secretary , Sanjay Patel . Jadeja is not the only player in the squad who is nursing an injury. Fast bowler , Ishant Sharma was rested for the ongoing Sydney Test due to a knee strain but he too is expected to be fit in time . " Ishant has a temporary injury with which he is doing well. But he has been advised by our physio not to play the current Test. He will be fit for the tri-series , " said Patel . When specifically asked about Yuvraj Singh , Patel did not get into details but admitted that Yuvraj was under consideration . " Not only Yuvraj Singh , a lot of other players were also discussed apart from the 30 , and after a lot of deliberation the team was finalised , in the presence of all the five selectors as well as captain MS Dhoni and coach Duncan Fletcher , who were there on conference call , " said Patel . India World Cup squad : MS Dhoni ( c ) , Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Virat Kohli , Suresh Raina , Ambati Rayudu , Ravindra Jadeja , Ravichandran Ashwin , Axar Patel , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Ishant Sharma , Mohammed Shami , Stuart Binny , Umesh Yadav , Ajinkya Rahane . India will play a tri-series in Australia also featuring England before the World Cup. The selection committee stuck with the fifteen players picked for the World Cup but added pacers , Mohit Sharma and Dhawal Kulkarni to the list . India squad for tri-series : MS Dhoni ( c ) , Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Virat Kohli , Suresh Raina , Ambati Rayudu , Ravindra Jadeja , Ravichandran Ashwin , Axar Patel , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Ishant Sharma , Mohammed Shami , Stuart Binny , Umesh Yadav , Ajinkya Rahane , Dhawal Kulkarni , Mohit Sharma © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
