World Cup Countdown # 38 - Brett Lee destroys Kenya Tue , Jan 06 2015 by Vishaal Loganathan Last updated on Tuesday , 06 January , 2015 , 12 : 02 PM Brett Lee celebrating his hat-trick. © Getty Brett Lee was one of cricket 's most charismatic characters. He was also one the the game 's most fearful bowlers. Pace , discipline , guile and accuracy - Lee vaunted of every currency that was needed to be a successful fast bowler. The 2003 World Cup saw Lee bowl at the peak of his powers , helping the Australians defend their crown with a rich haul of 22 wickets at an outstanding average of 17.90 . On his way to becoming a World Champion , the right-armer also became the first Australian to claim a World Cup hat-trick as he wreaked havoc against Kenya in the super-six game . After choosing to bowl first , Lee sent the high-flying Kenya side crashing down to earth with a lethal spell of pace bowling . Kennedy Otieno was surprised by a sharp bouncer that caught his elbow before hitting the stumps. The short delivery left the batsman rolling on the ground , writhing in pain , and Lee was quick to cut short his celebration and run to his counterpart to ensure he was alright. Otieno had to be helped off the field by his teammates . Lee needed little time to switch back to his lethal best. Brijal Patel followed Otieno back to the pavillion , one ball later. A length delivery that had the batsman playing forward , seamed away just enough to take the outside edge. Ricky Ponting , standing at second slip , gobbled up a fine catch . David Obuya was next in. And against an in-form Brett Lee , he had a hard task on his hands. As it happened , the task lasted only one delivery. Lee stunned the right-hander with a vicious yorker. Obuya 's bat came down a little too late , Lee was already on his way celebrating - He had become the first ever Australian to claim a hat-trick in World Cups . The three balls perfectly summed up what Lee was capable of. A storming short delivery that could do some massive damage ; the perfect length delivery to induce the edge and bring the people behind the stumps into play , and the perfect yorker that can catch even the best batsmen off guard . © Cricbuzz
