Phangiso preferred over McLaren in South Africa World Cup squad Wed , Jan 07 2015 Last updated on Thursday , 08 January , 2015 , 05 : 28 AM © AFP South Africa have named their final fifteen , that will captained by AB de Villiers , for the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup , to be co-hosted by Australia and New Zealand. Allrounder Ryan McLaren failed to make the cut , with the selectors preferring Farhaan Behardien in his place. There was also no place for left-armer spinner Robin Peterson with Aaron Phangiso being the preferred pick . Lonwabo Tsotsobe , too , did not merit a return to the national side with the selectors picking Kyle Abbott and Wayne Parnell ahead of the left-armer. Imran Tahir and Aaron Phangiso will lead the spin attack for the side that is seen by many as favourites , while JP Duminy is expected to also chip in with his handy off spinners . The squad is the same as the one that will take on West Indies in five ODIs with one exception. Morne van Wyk will take part in place of Quinton de Kock . de Kock is yet to fully recover from his ankle injury , but South Africa have added the wicket-keeper batsman 's name to the list optimistic that he will return to full fitness quickly . " Quinton de Kock is the only injury concern at the moment , " commented Cricket South Africa ( CSA ) selection committee convener , Andrew Hudson. " Our medical committee has backed his inclusion in the squad at this stage so there is confidence that he will be ready for the tournament. There are eight players with previous World Cup experience de Villiers , Hashim Amla , Faf du Plessis , JP Duminy , Wayne Parnell , Morne Morkel , Dale Steyn and Imran Tahir so we feel we have a nice blend of experience of major knock-out tournaments plus the freshness that will come from the relative newcomers . " We have also stayed true to our policy of consistency and reward for good performances that has enabled us to build up a good record over the past 12 months. The fact that most of these series have been played away from home has provided excellent preparation as well. The selectors have also identified a group of standby players in the event of injury replacements being needed but these will not be named at this stage. " South Africa squad for World Cup : AB de Villiers ( c ) , Hashim Amla , Quinton de Kock , JP Duminy , Rillee Rossouw , Faf du Plessis , Ferhan Behardien , David Miller , Wayne Parnell , Aaron Phangiso , Imran Tahir , Morne Morkel , Vernon Philander , Dale Steyn , Kyle Abbott . © Cricbuzz
