Michael Clarke to lead Australia in ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Sydney , Sat , Jan 10 2015 Last updated on Sunday , 11 January , 2015 , 03 : 21 AM Australia announced their 15-man squad for the World Cup and Michael Clarke will lead the team subject to a fitness deadline . Michael Clarke-led Australia look to capture 5th World Cup title. © Getty Australia have announced their final 15-man squad for the World Cup starting in February. Michael Clarke , who is recovering from hamstring surgery , has been named as the skipper of the team but he has been given a fitness deadline. If Clarke fails to recover before Australia 's second league game against Bangladesh in Brisbane , he will be replaced in the squad and George Bailey will lead the side. Should Clarke fail the fitness Test , the most likely candidate to replace him in the squad will be Shaun Marsh . Speaking about the selection , National Selection Panel chairman Rod Marsh said Clarke is one of the best batsman in the world and the selectors wanted to give him every chance to prove his fitness before the big tournament. He further said , " Our medical staff are pleased with his progress following hamstring surgery in December and he continues to undergo thorough rehabilitation work with a view to being ready to play an important role in the World Cup. We have said that if Michael has not recovered by our second match of the tournament against Bangladesh on 21 February , we will replace him in the squad. He understands that and is working tirelessly with medical staff to get back to fitness. " Mitchell Marsh , who also sustained a hamstring injury during the second Test against India in Brisbane is expected to be fit for the opening game against England at the MCG on February 14. The selection panel chairman said Mitchell could be available at some point in the tri-series that features England and India . The selectors also chose to leave out Nathan Lyon from the squad and bring in Xavier Doherty. The Tasmanian left-arm orthodox spinner , who has picked up 54 wickets in 57 ODIs at an economy rate of 4.75 , has been a part of Australia 's ODI team for the last five years and the selectors expressed their confidence in him. " Xavier is a reliable spin bowler who we know can perform well in the 50-over format. We also have other spin options in Glenn Maxwell , Steve Smith and Michael Clarke if required. " Josh Hazlewood , who picked up nine wickets in four ODIs against South Africa and 12 wickets at an average of 29.33 in the Test series against India , has been included in the squad and Ryan Harris misses out. Rod Marsh said the decision to leave out Harris was a tough one considering his record. However , he said Harris was a vital member of the Test squad and the team would benefit by his inclusion in the 2015 Ashes tour in England. Australia have also boosted their bowling line-up by including Pat Cummins. The 21-year-old pacer , who has been ravaged by injuries , played two ODIs against South Africa and picked up five wickets. He bowled with good pace and troubled the South African batsmen despite going at an economy rate of over six . Matthew Wade , who was selected in the ODI series against South Africa , misses out and Brad Haddin will be the keeper for the tournament. Australia will open their campaign against England in Melbourne on February 14. They will take on Bangladesh in Brisbane on February 21 , followed by the Trans-Tasman clash against New Zealand in Auckland on February 28. They will take on Afghanistan in Perth on March 04 and then an important clash awaits the hosts against Sri Lanka at Sydney on March 08. Australia play their final league game against Scotland on March 13 at the Blundstone Arena in Hobart on March 13 . Australia 15-man squad for World Cup : Michael Clarke ( c ) , George Bailey ( vc ) , Pat Cummins , Xavier Doherty , James Faulkner , Aaron Finch , Brad Haddin , Josh Hazlewood , Mitchell Johnson , Mitchell Marsh , Glenn Maxwell , Steve Smith , Mitchell Starc , David Warner , Shane Watson . © Cricbuzz
