Maxwell relieved to be named in Australia WC squad Melbourne , Tue , Jan 13 2015 Last updated on Tuesday , 13 January , 2015 , 06 : 38 AM A prolonged slump in batting form made Maxwell fear for his place in the 15-man squad for the World Cup . Glenn Maxwell feared for his World Cup chances after this bizarre dismissal against Brisbane Heat. © Getty Glenn Maxwell , Australia 's big-hitting allrounder , has admitted that he was relieved after being named in the 15-man squad for the upcoming ICC Cricket World Cup , 2015 , to be jointly co-hosted by Australia and New Zealand. The Melbourne Stars player feared for his place in the squad after a prolonged run of bad form , culminating with his bizarre dismissal , backing away , and getting clean bowled during a Big Bash match against Brisbane Heat , which he described as " the worst feeling I 've had in my life " . The 26-year-old was included in the 15-man squad , which was officially named on Sunday , but the star allrounder said he was n't sure of being picked after his late slump in batting form. " You have no idea. I had plenty of doubts obviously with the last month I 've had , " Maxwell told radio SEN on Tuesday morning . Maxwell showed some glimpses of his destructive ability during a 44-ball 66 in the Melbourne derby match against the Renegades on Saturday night , a day before the squad was officially unveiled. Having got the call from the national selectors , before the match helped him calm his nerves. " I just wanted that phone call so desperately , and to get it before that Big Bash game , it was extremely relieving , " he said . Maxwell has endured plenty of criticism off-late for his poor form , but believes much of those has been unwarranted. " I understand people being disappointed in people 's performance , but I think people have to understand that T20 is such a hit-and-miss game. You 're not going to score runs even half the time.It has been frustrating having so many people jump down my throat because I 'm not making runs , but it 's almost the way T20 goes , " he said . Maxwell recalled his bizarre dismissal in the Big Bash match against Brisbane Heat at the Gabba , where he backed away to a straight ball and was clean bowled. " That 's the easiest thing for me to talk about , because that 's when I was actually feeling as clear as possible , " he said. " It was just one of those things , as soon as he ( Ryan Duffield ) let the ball go , I made the decision 'oh that 's going to be a wide I 'm going to leave it. ' Halfway down I saw it start swinging back and that horrible sickening moment when you realize 'oh no this is going to hit the stumps and I 'm not going to play a shot and it 's going to bowl me ' , " he added . Maxwell is n't too fussed about his batting position during the World Cup and hopes to play a crucial role for Australia. " In one-day cricket , it has to be situational , I think. If there 's a time when there 's 15 to 20 overs left , I think that 's the perfect time for me to go in , " he concluded . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
