Given the opportunity I would love to play in the World Cup : Kevin Pietersen Melbourne , Tue , Jan 13 2015 Last updated on Tuesday , 13 January , 2015 , 12 : 45 PM Kevin Pietersen was grilled by Australian great , Ricky Ponting , during a commentary stint in Big Bash League . Pietersen opens up about his career in a candid chat with Ponting . Pietersen and Ponting were involved in a friendly banter during a commentary stint in BBL. © Getty Kevin Pietersen , the former England star , known for playing swashbuckling knocks , was grilled by Australian great Ricky Ponting during a commentary stint in a crucial Big Bash League encounter between Melbourne Renegades and Brisbane Heat . In what turned out to be an intriguing 25-minute interview , Pietersen said that the newly-appointed ODI skipper of England , Eoin Morgan 'would love ' to have the option of picking the enterprising batsman for the World Cup. Ponting asked Pietersen on his acrimonious sacking , various captains he played under during his illustrious career and his future plans . " I know that the current captain would love to have me in the England team , " said Pietersen. Morgan succeeded Alastair Cook as England 's captain in the abridged version of the game and will lead the side during the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 . Pietersen , is known for flexing his knees and moving around the crease to rattle the bowlers. Pietersen 's unique method helped him put the opposition bowlers under immense pressure. However , he was troubled by a knee injury in 2013. Pietersen though , believed that he is fit as a fiddle now and added that he still hoped to play for England. " Who knows ? I do n't see why not. I 'm hitting it OK and I get on pretty well with most of the guys in there , if not all of them. I 'm 34 years of age ; Kumar Sangakkara is 38 and has just scored a double hundred. I honestly believe that I 'm batting as well as I 've ever batted at the moment. I 've got over my knee injury , which is huge. Over the last 18 months , I 've just hated batting , just because my knee was so sore. " Pietersen added that it would be frustrating to not play in the World Cup. " I love playing cricket at the moment , so given half the opportunity to go and play ( in the World Cup ) , the way I 'm playing at the moment , of course I would. The frustrating thing for me is that I 'll be sitting on my sofa watching a series and I 'll get a message from a couple of youngsters in the side asking 'What shall I do tomorrow ? How should I play ? That for me is quite sad because I 'd prefer to be standing at the other end , or training with these guys , saying this is how we should and should n't do it. " Interestingly , on occasions , Pietersen himself asked a few questions to Ponting. One of them was whether Ponting still believed that Pietersen was good enough to play for England in ODIs. Ponting replied by saying , " Absolutely , I would have thought you were in England 's best eleven one-day players. " Both of them were also involved in some friendly banter. Pietersen even queried Ponting on who he found as the most arrogant English cricketer during his playing days. Ponting responded by saying , " a certain right-arm off-spinner , ( the ) man who fields behind the stumps , wears a bit of protection and a couple of fast bowlers. " Pietersen has always reckoned that Michael Vaughan , his first England captain , was the best leader he had played under. So , on expected lines , when the legendary Australian cricketer asked about various captains Pietersen had played under , he showered praise on Vaughan. Pietersen also gave his views on his relationship with Andrew Strauss , especially after the infamous text-gate scandal that saw Pietersen being dropped . " Vaughan was brilliant , the messages that he delivered were on key and he did n't give out too many. He liked free spirits and understood players who could win him games. It was good man-management , you should treat everybody individually , try and get the best out of your individuals in the team. It takes all types to win games and you 've got to get the best out of all types in all different circumstances. That 's leadership . " Now , [ Andrew ] Strauss and I were close buddies , but then some things went on and I do n't think he liked a few of the things I said. I actually think we 'll be fine , Straussy is a good man. But occasionally some people just fall out , " Pietersen summed up . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
