de Villiers is the most valuable cricketer on the planet : Gilchrist Sydney , Wed , Jan 14 2015 Last updated on Thursday , 15 January , 2015 , 10 : 36 AM AB is the most valuable cricketer in the planet 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup will be very exciting AB can play all the shots in the book , is a superb wicket-keeper , a brilliant fielder and takes wickets when he bowls : Adam Gilchrist. © Getty Heaping lavish praise on South Africa 's ODI captain , AB de Villiers , former Australian wicket-keeper batsman and three time World Cup winner , Adam Gilchrist , has branded the Protea skipper as the " most valuable cricketer on the planet " . In an exclusive TV interview with International Cricket Council ( ICC ) , the legendary keeper also shared his excitement at the 2015 World Cup , being co-hosted by Australia and New Zealand , after a span of 23 years . With 1085 runs from 31 World Cup games , Gilchrist is sixth in the list of the highest run-scorers in ODIs premier tournament. He has also accounted for as many as 52 dismissals ( 45 ct + 7 st ) , making him the most successful wicket-keeper in the history of the tournament. His performance is reflected in him being part of three Australian World Cup triumphs ( 1999 , 2003 and 2007 ) . Heaping praise on de Villiers , Gilchrist said : " de Villiers is the most valuable cricketer on the planet. His versatility is extraordinary and he is amazing to watch. He 's so inventive , he can play a touch game or a power game. Then , he can also keep wickets. He 's also one of the best fielders in the world and recently has taken some wickets when he had a bowl. And he leads his team very well , so , I think he 's the most valuable cricketer around. " Sharing his excitement over Australia and New Zealand hosting the prestigious tournament , Gilchrist felt the conditions in both countries would play a big role in the success of the tournament. " I think next month 's tournament is going to be really exciting. Conditions , particularly in Australia , are going to be conducive to high scores , entertaining cricket and flamboyant play . " In New Zealand , there are more result-based wickets on offer , as there 's normally a bit in them for the bowlers. The batsmen might struggle a bit more over there , but I think were going to see an exciting and a close tournament , " he said . Harking back on his playing days , Gilchrist , who was part of three Australian triumphs , recalled fond memories from each edition of the prestigious tournament. " They were all very different ( tournaments ) , " he said. " In 1999 ( in England ) , we just scraped through. We lost two of our first three games and one slip-up and we knew we were out of the tournament. So , we were on a knifes edge , including the famous tied semi-final ( against South Africa ) . It was close . " In 2003 ( in South Africa ) , again we were a little bit shaky early on , but we got it right. We had a few close calls where a number of games went right down to the wire and it took some flashes of individual brilliance to get us over the line. We ended up winning undefeated , but it was a lot closer than that . " In 2007 ( in the West Indies ) , we just dominated. Guys like Glenn McGrath and Matthew Hayden were taking opponents out of play , so that was probably the cruisier tournament. Not without hard work or commitment , but certainly there was a bit more of a relaxed view certainly compared to the other two. All three tournaments were very individual in their own right , but they were all wonderful memories , " he signed off . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
