ICC Cricket World Cup , 2015 Countdown # 30 - India fume over DRS after Ian Bell 's controversial non-dismissal Bengaluru , Wed , Jan 14 2015 by Gokul Gopal Last updated on Thursday , 15 January , 2015 , 09 : 26 AM Ian Bell was on 17 when India reviewed an LBW appeal . Replays suggested that Bell was more than 2.5 metres in front of the wicket He was declared not-out despite replays suggesting that the ball was crashing into the stumps . India 's distrust over DRS reached new heights after this LBW call was negated by the third umpire during a World Cup match in 2011. © Getty India have never been a fan of the Umpire Decision Review System ( UDRS ) . They have always demanded accuracy of close to 100 % as more often than not , reviews have worked against them. One such instance , which convinced the Indian team not to trust the UDRS , happened during the ICC Cricket World Cup 2011 in the match against England in Bangalore . A cracking hundred by Sachin Tendulkar and useful half-centuries from Gautam Gambhir and Yuvraj Singh helped India post a commanding total of 338. However , no total is safe enough considering the boundary size at the Chinnaswamy stadium , and the Indian bowlers were sent on a leather hunt when Andrew Strauss and Ian Bell were going great guns and put on a terrific partnership to help England inch closer . However , the 3rd wicket stand , worth 170 runs , would have come to an end when Bell was on 17 - the stand was worth 52 at that stage. Yuvraj Singh bowled one straight on the stumps in the 25th over and Bell , looking for a cheeky paddle sweep , missed the ball and was rapped on the pads. Umpire Billy Bowden reckoned that the batsman was safe but India had a review available and they made use of it . According to television replays , the ball pitched in line , the impact was in line and the ball was going on to hit the stumps. All those at the ground , who witnessed the scene playing out on the big screen , were cheering and broke into celebration even before third umpire Aleem Dar could give his final verdict. Much to their disappointment , and to the dismay of the Indian cricketers , the decision remained with the on-field umpire 's call . Reason : When he was struck on the pad , Bell was more than 2.5 metres down the pitch. According to DRS rules , if the distance from the stumps and the impact of the ball is greater than 2.5 metres , the decision remains with the on-field umpire . Bell went on to make 69 runs , and although India managed to sneak in a few quick wickets , the match ended in a thrilling tie. Needing two off the final delivery , Graeme Swann took a single off Munaf Patel and England finished with 338 . After the match , a disappointed Indian skipper MS Dhoni said the 2.5 metre rule was 'an adulteration of human decision-making and technology'. Bell , on his part , admitted that he did not even know about the existence of such a rule. " I did n't even know that such a rule existed. As soon as I saw it pitch in line and hit , I thought that was enough. It 's strange , to be honest with you , if you see Hawk-eye saying it 's going to hit the stumps. It 's a little bit strange. But that 's the rule , I guess , and we 're not going to be able to change that for this World Cup. " © Cricbuzz
