Younis hopes Pakistan break World Cup jinx against India Thu , Jan 15 2015 Last updated on Thursday , 15 January , 2015 , 05 : 30 PM * Younis Khan hopes that Pakistan can end their winless streak against India in World Cups . * He also clarifies that he will not retire from ODI cricket after the World Cup . Younis Khan says he will not retire from ODIs after the World Cup. © AFP Senior batsman Younis Khan is hopeful that 2015 will be the year when Pakistan end their winless streak against India in World Cups. " History is there to be changed and my feeling is this time we can change it and win against India in Adelaide , " Younis told reporters on Thursday in Lahore. Pakistan have never beaten India in any World Cup match in five contests since the event was launched in 1975 . Younis , 37 , said he would like to carry forward his recent form into the World Cup , to be jointly hosted by Australia and New Zealand. Younis has hit five centuries and a fifty in his last ten international appearances ( five Tests , five ODIs ) . " Recently when I played against Australia in the Tests , people were wondering if Younis was finished but I just hit form and started scoring centuries on a trot. This purple patch can also happen to me in the World Cup , " said the former Pakistan captain . The India-Pakistan game , scheduled on February 15 , is already a sell out and is expected to be the most watched cricket match in the history. Younis said Pakistan have some very good performers and if every player could do his job responsibly and play like a unit , then they could beat India . But the senior player noted that there were no favourites in the upcoming World Cup because of the way one-day cricket had changed in recent years and this time anyone could win the title as the rule changes had narrowed the gap between the top teams. " You can say in Australian and New Zealand conditions the host countries or South Africa and England will have an advantage but even they can not be termed as favourites , " he insisted . Younis , who has played in 259 ODIs , ruled out any immediate plans to retire after the World Cup. " I have not thought about an immediate retirement because frankly speaking I am still enjoying playing and my hunger for cricket is still there. I still do n't want to end one of the best periods of my life which is playing international cricket. " He said playing Test cricket for Pakistan was one of the best times of his life and as long as he was fit and in form he would continue to play. " Retirement will be my personal decision , " he said. Two of Pakistan 's most experienced players - captain Misbah-ul-Haq and Shahid Afridi - have already announced they will retire from ODIs after the World Cup . " They need to be appreciated instead of creating controversies. They know best the condition of their body and fitness and mental state of mind. When I also retire only I can decide best the time to say goodbye. " Younis praised Misbah for restoring the pride and image of Pakistan cricket after taking a hit after the spot-fixing scandal in 2010 . " Misbah has played a big role in reviving Pakistan cricket after the spot-fixing scandal and as a captain he has done a lot to bring stability to the team , " he said . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
