Do n't See Myself as Role Model , Just Want to Concentrate on My Bowling : Ishant Sharma Do n't See Myself as Role Model , Just Want to Concentrate on My Bowling : Ishant Sharma He has been part of two tours to Australia but Ishant Sharma says all the pacers in the Indian side are equally good. He adds that he would like to use his experience from previous matches Down Under to perfect his bowling . Last updated on Saturday , 06 December , 2014 18 : 14 IST Total Shares File photo of Ishant Sharma . © AFP Adelaide : India 's pace spearhead Ishant Sharma believes that his " experience " of having bowled in Australian conditions will come in handy for the other bowlers but he does n't want to be looked upon as a " role model " for the likes of Umesh Yadav , Varun Aaron or Mohammed Shami. ( Related : Dhoni joins Team India in Australia ) Ishant has previously been a part of two Test tours in 2007-08 and then in 2011-12 . " All our bowlers are in the same age group , an average age of 26 or 27 , which is very good for the Indian team , " Ishant told reporters on Saturday. ( Also read : Zaheer Khan says he is not shocked by World Cup snub ) " As such , I do n't see myself as a role model for anyone. What I need to do is focus on my bowling and then whatever I have learnt from my experiences in the past and tours abroad that I can share with my team mates. It is vital to learn from whatever we did right on past tours , focus on that and keep doing the same. " Ishant had first shot to fame during the 2007-08 tour when he had consistently troubled Australian captain Ricky Ponting. On the subsequent tour in 2011-12 , he did n't do too well as India lost 0-4 in the Test series . Ishant 's own record took a battering as he now has played 7 Tests in Australia , with 11 wickets at an average of 70-plus . " I learnt an important lesson last time. There were a lot of expectations from me and I have a lot of expectations from myself. I got recognition in Australia but could n't live up to it the last time. This time I know I have to control my feelings and expectations. I have to focus on doing the basics right. So I can concentrate better and improve my bowling , " he said . Story first published on : Saturday , 06 December 2014 17 : 09 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
