WC team preview : NZ aim to remove dark horses tag New Delhi , Fri , Jan 16 2015 by Siddharth Vishwanathan Last updated on Tuesday , 20 January , 2015 , 11 : 40 AM New Zealand have reached the World Cup semi-finals six times . New Zealand have lost only one ODI series in 2014 . New Zealand have not gone past the semi-finals in the World Cup and they will be aiming to set that record straight in the 2015 edition. © Getty New Zealand have always punched above their weight in ICC tournaments and the World Cup is no exception. Their form has generally been good in the league stages , but come the knock-outs and theyve never been able to crack the semi-final stage : six times they have reached the final four - in 1975 , 1979 , 1992 , 1999 , 2007 and 2011 - and each time theyve lost. New Zealand have often been called the dark horses but they will be looking to change it in 2015 . Brendon McCullums team has enjoyed a good run over the past year. They did not lose a Test series in 2014 and registered wonderful wins against India at home and over Pakistan in the UAE. They have continued that good run by defeating Sri Lanka 2-0 in the recent Test series , and currently are tied 1-1 in the best-of-seven ODI contest . Group : Pool A Captain : Brendon McCullum Strengths The batting and bowling complement each other. Brendon McCullum 's presence at the top gives the team aggression while the likes of Kane Williamson and Ross Taylor provide the calming influence. Corey Anderson in the lower middle order lends the firepower at the finish. Trent Boult , Tim Southee and Mitchell McClenaghan are a formidable trio and Kyle Mills and Daniel Vettori - in his final World Cup - provide valuable experience in the team . Weaknesses The opening combination continues to be a worry. Martin Guptill has struggled for form while Tom Latham is yet to find his feet. With Latham designated as the floater for the World Cup , the onus will be on Guptill to provide stability at the top . X-factor With a strike-rate of 91 in ODIs , that man is Brendon McCullum - capable of taking the attack to the opposition and change the course of the match with his aggressive style. Sri Lanka got a taste off it in the first ODI at Hagley Oval in Christchurch on January 11 when McCullum blasted 51 off 21 balls to help New Zealand on course. Four days later , he hit 117 off 99 balls in a loss in Hamilton. If he continues in this vein in the tournament , the opposition bowlers will find it hard to stop this team . Dark horse Adam Milne clocked 153.2 kmph in a game against West Indies and has the reputation of being a serious pace prospect on the domestic circuit. In the recent series against Pakistan , he picked up four wickets in four games and troubled the batsmen with his pace. In the game against Sri Lanka , he showed good control and pace to finish with 2 for 37. If Milne remains fit and combines accuracy with his pace , he will be a tough proposition . ODI form guide ( last six months ) v South Africa : Lost 2-0 ( Home ) v Pakistan : Won 3-2 ( Away ) What they did in the 2011 World Cup New Zealand had a see-saw tournament. They started off the campaign in style by dismissing Kenya for 69 in Chennai but came down to earth when they lost to Australia by seven wickets. They defeated Zimbabwe by ten wickets in Ahmedabad , after which Ross Taylor 's birthday blitz helped them defeat Pakistan in a World Cup for the first time in 28 years. A win against Canada was followed by a 112-run loss to Sri Lanka in Mumbai. They got the better of South Africa in the quarter-finals in Dhaka but lost to Sri Lanka in the semi-final in Colombo after a tough fight . Squad Brendon McCullum ( capt ) , Corey Anderson , Trent Boult , Grant Elliott , Martin Guptill , Tom Latham , Mitchell McClenaghan , Nathan McCullum , Kyle Mills , Adam Milne , Luke Ronchi ( wk ) , Tim Southee , Ross Taylor , Dan Vettori and Kane Williamson Fixtures February 14 : New Zealand vs Sri Lanka , Hagley Oval , Christchurch February 17 : New Zealand vs Scotland , University Oval , Dunedin February 20 : New Zealand vs England , Westpac stadium , Wellington February 28 : New Zealand vs Australia , Eden Park , Auckland March 8 : New Zealand vs Afghanistan , McLean Park , Napier March 13 : New Zealand vs Bangladesh , Seddon Park , Hamilton © Cricbuzz
