ICC Cricket World Cup , 2015 Countdown # 28 - Gatting 's ill-fated reverse sweep Fri , Jan 16 2015 by Pradeep Last updated on Friday , 16 January , 2015 , 08 : 16 AM © Getty There comes a moment in everyone 's career when they recognize a thing done in haste for it comes out and haunts them forever. For Mike Gatting , that moment was when he played that ill-fated reverse sweep during the final of the 1987 World Cup , against arch-rivals Australia . Date : 8 November , 1987 , Venue : Eden Gardens , Kolkata England and Australia , the oldest rivals in cricket , were up against each other in another battle , and this time it was n't for the prized Ashes trophy the reward was probably higher , the chance to be crowned as the world 's best limited overs team. England had the upperhand , having won the last two Ashes meetings. On the other hand , the Australians were rebuilding , having lost the aura that had made them world beaters . From the crowd 's perspective , it was n't the ideal final as well ; co-hosts and pre-tournament favorites , India and Pakistan , met their waterloo in the semi-finals . Come the finals day , England , who had stopped India 's march , werent just battling Australia , they were up against the Kolkata crowd , who were rooting for Allan Border and his men , too. Batting first , Australia rode on David Boons patient 75 and some late hitting from Mike Veletta , who made a 31-ball 45 , to finish on a highly competitive score of 253. England started badly , losing Tim Robinson for a duck in the first over , trapped leg before wicket by Craig McDermott. Graham Gooch and Bill Athey stabilized the innings , adding 66-runs for the second wicket and setting up the perfect platform for skipper , Mike Gatting . The England skipper was in a rich vein of form , getting runs on a consistent basis , and more importantly , at a rate that would put the opponents on the back-seat. He started off in the same vein and quickly threatened to take the game away from Australia 's grasp. It needed something special from the Australian ranks or a moment of madness from Gatting himself , for the match to turnaround . The turning point was to arrive with England cruising along at 135/2. Gatting 's Australian counterpart , Allan Border , had the ball in his hands and drifted one well down leg-side. It would have been a wide had Gatting let it go , but for some unforeseen reason , he decided to play the cute looking reverse sweep. He was n't in any control over the shot ; the ball lobbed off his shoulder and a gleeful wicket-keeper , Greg Dyer , latched onto the opportunity. Former Australia captain , Ian Chappell , called it " a brainlock , a moment of madness " . The game had turned decisively. Allan Lamb did his best to resurrect England with a fighting 45 , but the momentum had been wrestled away completely from the hot favourites. Steve Waugh kept his nerves to deliver the final sucker-punch , dismissing the dangerous Phillip Defrietas for 17. England finished at 246/8 , 7 runs shy of victory and the World Champions tag . Mike Gatting 's mistake had n't just cost England a World Cup victory. England 's champions psyche also went down with his ill- fated reverse sweep. Australia would go on to regain the Ashes in 1989 , beating their nemesis by a 4-0 margin. The new champions had well and truly arrived . © Cricbuzz
