WC team preview : England aim to regroup and defy the odds New Delhi , Sat , Jan 17 2015 by Feroz Khan Last updated on Tuesday , 20 January , 2015 , 11 : 40 AM England have reached the finals of the World Cup three times but have never won the World Cup . They have lost two consecutive bilateral ODI series against India at home and Sri Lanka away . Under a new leader and with a bunch of greenhorns , England have to shrug off the negativity surrounding them if they have to do well in the World Cup. © Getty England probably will not feature among your top four contenders for the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015. They have been ridiculed and made fun of for their inability to win the biggest prize that they founded. Their teams made it to the final in 1979 , 1987 and 1992 but were left high and dry by their rivals. The ICC World Twenty20 2010 crown broke their jinx of not winning ICC events but that is hardly a compensation for their failure in the World Cup . Their build-up to the 2015 event has been a rough ride , to say the least. Apart from comprehensive defeats in successive bilateral ODI series , they had to sack their under-performing captain Alastair Cook and replaced him with Eoin Morgan a few weeks before the competition. Under a new leader and with a bunch of greenhorns who have sparkled only sporadically over the past year , England have to shrug off the negativity surrounding them. Defeat in the opening match of the tri-series in Australia , featuring two of the strongest contenders , has not added to their pre-World Cup woes . Group : Pool A Captain : Eoin Morgan Strengths The middle and lower-order batting has bailed England out repeatedly. Joe Root and Jos Buttler bolster their often flagging batting displays , but the rise of allrounder Moeen Ali as an opener and James Taylor at No. 3 has given Englands confidence a timely boost. The return of pacemen James Anderson and Stuart Broad will bring necessary experience to the bowling department , while Chris Woakes ' rise has been handy . Weakness Nine of the squad will be playing their maiden World Cup. The tri-nation tournament in Australia ahead of the World Cup may help settle nerves and help them address the issue of the opening combination. Cook 's repeated failures , leading to his exclusion , have hampered England. Ian Bell 's 187 in a recent warm-up game offered hopes of a top-order revival but Australias Mitchell Starc squashed that by reducing England to 0 for 2 in the first over at the SCG on Friday . X-factor Moeen Ali edges ahead of Jos Buttler , having recently surprised many with his ability to score briskly when promoted to opener. He is also an effective offspinner , providing Eoin Morgan with a handy option. He made a strong impression during the ODI series in Sri Lanka last year when he scored his maiden ODI ton as opener and two back-to-back brisk fifties in recent warm-up games in Australia have strengthened his case . Dark horse Chris Woakes is a useful death overs ' bowler. Any captain would tell you that is an invaluable asset. Woakes picked a six-wicket haul against Australia in a losing cause in 2011 , leaving his mark as the player of the match. But he fell off the radar because of inconsistency and a lack of pace. He returned with added yards and improved performances. Replacing the injured Broad in the side last year , Woakes became the first Englishman to collect a second six-wicket haul . Recent form guide ( last six months ) v India : Lost 1-3 at home v Sri Lanka : Lost 2-5 away What they did in the 2011 World Cup England made it to the quarter-finals in India after enduring a dramatic league stage. They conceded 292 runs to the Netherlands but went on to win their opening game. They were involved in a dramatic tie with India before their infamous defeat to Ireland. The Andrew Strauss-led side reassembled to outshine South Africa in a low-scoring affair but came crashing down against a lowly Bangladesh. Desperately needing a win in their last league game , they got the better of the West Indies to finish third in the group. Their campaign ended when they handed a 10-wicket thrashing by Sri Lanka in the quarter-finals . Squad Eoin Morgan ( capt ) , James Anderson , Joe Root , Moeen Ali , Ian Bell , Ravi Bopara , Stuart Broad , Steven Finn , Jos Buttler ( wk ) , James Taylor , Gary Ballance , Alex Hales , James Tredwell , Chris Woakes and Chris Jordan . Group Fixtures February 14 : vs Australia , Melbourne Cricket Ground , Melbourne February 20 : vs New Zealand , Westpac Stadium , Wellington February 23 : vs Scotland , Hagley Oval , Christchurch March 1 : vs Sri Lanka , Westpac Stadium , Wellington March 9 : vs Bangladesh , Adelaide Oval , Adelaide March 13 : vs Afghanistan , Sydney Cricket Ground , Sydney © Cricbuzz
