Three good days are enough to lift the World Cup : Dravid New Delhi , Wed , Jan 21 2015 by Siddharth Vishwanathan Last updated on Wednesday , 21 January , 2015 , 07 : 18 AM Rahul Dravid is optimistic about India 's batting . He says the form of certain match-winners in the team is very important . Australia , South Africa , New Zealand , India and Sri Lanka are the favourites to lift the cup . Rahul Dravid believes India 's batting display during the recent Test series was outstanding. © BCCL The string of poor results for the Indian team in Australia has not dented Rahul Dravid 's faith that they can extend their stay till the very end of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 in Australia and New Zealand. " We have players who can win you games single-handedly. And that is what the World Cup can become about , " he said . Answering questions after the inaugural TCM Sports Lecture in New Delhi on Tuesday , Dravid said India needed a combination of three good days , luck and the form of match-winners to give wings to their World Cup campaign . " The format of the World Cup is such that the top eight teams are expected to sail into the quarterfinals. You reach the quarterfinals , have three good days , have a bit of luck and you could win it. Why not ? , " he said , drawing attention to the structure of the World Cup that will allow teams to bounce back after a bad day in the preliminary league where there are seven teams , including three weaker sides , in each group . Dravid believed India 's batsmen hold the key in the big ticket event. " The batting exhibition by India during the Test series was simply outstanding. They are among the best efforts I have seen in a long time , " he said of the form that batsmen like Virat Kohli , Murali Vijay and Ajinkya Rahane were in the recently-concluded series . Kohli scored 692 runs with four centuries , the most by any Indian player in a four-Test series in Australia while Vijay scored 482 runs , the most by an Indian opener in Australia. Rahane smashed 399 runs at an average of 57 , with his most memorable moment being the 262-run stand with Kohli in the MCG Test , a record for the venue . Dravid went on to tip four teams to lift the World Cup. " Australia , South Africa , New Zealand and India are the definite favourites. However , Sri Lanka is also there. One always seems to omit Sri Lanka but they always reach the latter stages of big tournaments. They always seem to surprise us , " he said . © Cricbuzz
