WC team preview : Can South Africa overcome business-end blues ? Wed , Jan 21 2015 by Prateek Srivastava Last updated on Wednesday , 21 January , 2015 , 11 : 06 AM South Africa boast a very strong team under AB de Villiers. © Getty The 2015 ICC World Cup is being seen as South Africa 's best chance to cast off their long-stuck " chokers " tag. They reached the semi-finals in 1992 , 1999 and 2007 and the quarter-finals in 1996 and 2011 but despite having mostly been the favourites , they failed to deal the coup de grace. On paper , like always , South Africa boast a very strong team under AB de Villiers , and if they play together as a unit they can go all the way . Group : Pool B Captain : AB de Villiers Strengths South Africa look daunting in all departments but it 's the batting that sets them apart. The presence of de Villiers , Hashim Amla , JP Duminy , Faf du Plessis and David Miller makes them a batting line-up to die for. De Villiers and Amla , the fastest player to reach 5,000 ODI runs , average over 50 , while the other three are much better batsmen than they were a year ago or so. In the bowling department , Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel and Imran Tahir keep South Africa 's flag high. Steyn and Tahir critical wicket-takers while Morkel could be handy on bouncy pitches. Throw in Vernon Philander 's busy seam bowling and Kyle Abbott 's specialty as a late-overs bowler , and this attack carries plenty of weight . Weaknesses Their inability to finish off close matches. Also , they have to improve their batting against spin , especially on slow pitches. The pitches in Australia and New Zealand mostly have true bounce but Adelaide Oval and the Sydney Cricket Ground have a history of supporting slow bowlers. Considering that these venues will host the first and third quarter-final matches , South Africa have reasons to worry . X-factor It has to be de Villiers. The South Africa captain is undoubtedly the best batsman in the world as far as limited-overs cricket goes. His recent 31-ball century against West Indies - the fastest by any player in ODI history - is testimony to his devastating batting skills. In a wonderful career , a World Cup trophy is the one thing he has n't laid his hands on. A career bereft of a World Cup win is an incomplete one , and de Villiers must be looking at this edition with great expectations to strengthen his legacy . Dark horse Tahir made his ODI debut in last World Cup co-hosted by India , Sri Lanka and Bangladesh and returned 4 for 41 in his first game against West Indies. The legspinner is a captain 's dream. At heart , he is an aggressive bowler but that does n't mean he is prone to bowling loose balls. His economy rate of 4.41 suggests he is always on a batsman 's case . ODI from guide ( last six months ) Beat Australia to win a tri-series in Zimbabwe v New Zealand : Won 2-0 ( away ) v Australia : Lost 4-1 ( away ) What they did in the 2011 World Cup : South Africa topped Group B , beating eventual champions India , West Indies , Bangladesh , Ireland and Netherlands. The only blemish for them in the group stage came when they lost to England chasing 172 to win in Chennai. In the quarter-final against New Zealand , in pursuit of 222 , South Africa were favourites to take the match at 108 for 2 when a collapse saw them bowled out for 172 . Squad AB de Villiers ( capt ) , Hashim Amla , Kyle Abbott , Farhaan Behardien , Quinton de Kock ( wk ) , JP Duminy , Faf du Plessis , Imran Tahir , David Miller , Morne Morkel , Wayne Parnell , Aaron Phangiso , Vernon Philander , Rilee Rossouw , Dale Steyn Fixtures Vs Zimbabwe , Feb 15 at Hamilton Vs India , Feb 22 at the MCG Vs West Indies , Feb 27 at the SCG Vs Ireland , Mar 3 at Canberra Vs Pakistan , Mar 7 at Auckland Vs UAE , Mar 12 at Wellington © Cricbuzz Tags
