WC Countdown # 23 - The first World Cup hat-trick Wed , Jan 21 2015 by Siddharth Vishwanathan Last updated on Wednesday , 21 January , 2015 , 08 : 55 AM © Getty In the 1970s and the 1980s , an ODI hat-trick was a rarity. Before the start of the 1987 World Cup co-hosted by India and Pakistan , the world had witnessed only two hat-tricks. The first person to achieve this feat was Pakistan fast bowler Jalal-ud-din who snapped up Rod Marsh , Bruce Yardley and Geoff Lawson in the ODI against Australia in Hyderabad in 1982. Bruce Reid joined him on the list in 1986 when he dismissed Bruce Blair , Erwin McSweeny and Stu Gillespie in the Benson and Hedges World Series Cup match against New Zealand in Sydney. On October 31 , 1987 , one individual changed his fortunes and etched his name in the history books . In April 1986 , Chetan Sharma was on the receiving end of a Javed Miandad assault when he was hit for a last-ball six in the final of the Australasia Cup in Sharjah. That moment had been etched in memory of fans from both countries. A little over a year later , Sharma provided the fans with an even more memorable moment . India had already qualified for the semi-finals and they needed to win by a convincing margin against New Zealand to ensure that they got to play the knock-out game at home. New Zealand chose to bat and were well placed at 182/5 when Sharma came back into the attack. Ken Rutherford was batting on 26 and had a key role to play . Off the fourth ball , Sharma cleaned up Rutherford with an in-cutter that pegged the middle stump back. The fifth ball , a similar delivery that nipped back in and kept a bit low , breached the defence of Ian Smith. The sixth and last ball of the over was full which Ewen Chatfield gingerly looked to defend , but missed and the leg stump was knocked out. Sharma became the first bowler to achieve this feat in a World Cup and the third bowler overall . New Zealand scored 221/9 and India chased down the target in 32.1 overs. Kris Srikkanth scored 75 off 58 balls while Sunil Gavaskar scored his maiden ODI century off 88 balls to register a crushing nine-wicket victory. Both Sharma and Gavaskar were declared as the players of the match as India romped home to the semi-final . © Cricbuzz
