WC countdown # 21 - When Greatbatch took on Ambrose and Co Fri , Jan 23 2015 by Bharath Ramaraj Last updated on Friday , 23 January , 2015 , 01 : 08 PM Mark Greatbatch took everyone by surprise in 1992 © Getty Until the 1992 World Cup held in Australia and New Zealand , Mark Greatbatch was remembered as a dour and stonewalling batsman. However , in the mega-event he was suddenly elevated to open the batting. He then went on to take everyone by surprise with a volley of brutal strokes . It was a case of pure coincidence that Greatbatch opened the batting for the home side in the tournament. In the game against South Africa , John Wright , the regular opener , was injured and Greatbatch was asked to bat at top of the order. After thwacking the South African bowlers around , Greatbatch , soon came face-to-face against the West Indies ' pacers . After New Zealand 's medium pacers restricted West Indies to a modest 203 , the batsmen came up against a formidable pace unit led by the indomitable , Curtly Ambrose. Greatbatch , started his innings by clobbering an ageing Malcolm Marshall and Anderson Cummins to all corners of the ground with humongous sixes. However , the towering giant , Ambrose , known for extracting disconcerting bounce at good pace , had bowled a fine spell . Now , that was the moment when Greatbatch decided to do something that was unimaginable for any other batsman in that tournament using the feet against the fearsome Ambrose. He made room for himself to thump more towards deep point/deep cover . Now , with the kind of bounce Ambrose could extract from even a good length , for a moment it felt like Greatbatch would make the walk back to the pavilion. But Greatbatch was batting with fearless courage in that World Cup. He decided to open the face ever so slightly and slice it over third-man. The result was yet another sumptuous six . The crowd , not used to such bravado especially against the fearsome West Indies pacers , erupted in joy. Greatbatch had taken on Ambrose at the peak of his prowess and deposited the ball into stands. Tony Cozier , the veteran commentator echoed the sentiments of the viewers accurately : " This is unbelievable stuff. Curtly Ambrose ca n't believe it and neither can Warren Lees , the New Zealand coach ! " Purists might view that shot as an agricultural hoick and that Greatbatch was lucky to get away with it. In reality though , the dauntless courage shown by Greatbatch against a great fast bowler has to go down into history books as one of the moments of 1992 World Cup . Greatbatch went onto score a quickfire 63 before he was dismissed by Winston Benjamin. On the back of Greatbatch 's pinch-hitting and Martin Crowe 's enterprising fifty New Zealand cruised to a five-wicket win . © Cricbuzz
