World Cup musings : Do India look like title defenders ? New Delhi , Sun , Jan 25 2015 Last updated on Sunday , 25 January , 2015 , 11 : 47 AM Shikhar Dhawan 's form remains a big source of worry . R Ashwin should be the premier spinner while Axar Patel should be persisted with . The bowling department is India 's biggest worry . Shikhar Dhawan 's poor form at the top is a major concern for India heading into the World Cup. © Agencies India is definitely not looking the team that is capable of defending its world title. Plagued by injuries and a rather ordinary bowling attack , there seems to be far too much dependence on Virat Kohli and the batting. Can the Indians turn the tables in the biggest stage of all and can they salvage some pride in the remaining two matches of the tri-series ? Here 's Boria Majumdar and Jamie Alter discussing the teams ' chances in one of many conversations that will continue right through the World Cup . Boria- It certainly does not look good for a start. The crushing defeat against England has seriously affected fans ' faith. Nothing seems to be working. But you know what , India had a similar build up in 2003. The poor performances in New Zealand prior to the World Cup acted like a wake up call and India did brilliantly in South Africa. Do you think such a thing is a realistic proposition this time round ? Jamie- ( Laughs ) . I like your optimism Boria , but I do n't intend to think so far back. In fact , I do n't look too far ahead either. I am seriously skeptical that with the bowling attack at our disposal , how India fares in the World Cup. The bowling does n't look incisive at all and most of the bowlers are struggling with injuries. Make no mistake ; it is a serious cause for concern . Boria- I agree but it 's ODI cricket and as Rahul Dravid has suggested , three big days from our batsmen and we can still retain the trophy. The format is such that India will make the quarters. After that , it is a matter of three games is n't it ? Anyway , let 's talk about the combination- Shikhar Dhawan is n't getting any runs. In fact , he is struggling. Would you continue with him or get Rahane and Rohit at the top for the start of the World Cup ? Jamie- I 'd rather get Rohit Sharma and Ajinkya Rahane once Rohit recovers from injury. Now that we have not picked Vijay , we have limited options at the top. Multiple failures will further dent Shikhar 's confidence and there 's no point getting an out of form batsman to play against Pakistan in a seriously high pressure game in Adelaide. Rahane and Rohit are in good form and I 'd want to start with them. Also , and this is most important , I 'd get Virat Kohli back at three. Every team has their best batter at three and India should be no different. Ricky Ponting had won Australia many a match batting at three and Virat has an exceptional record batting at three. Get him back to his best position and give him the maximum chance of winning you the match. This trying to protect him at number four or trying to ensure he is there to manoeuvre once the new ball loses its shine does n't work for me. Also , there are two new balls these days so the balls will hardly lose their shine in the first 20 overs. What is your take about Virat at three ? Boria- I tend to agree with you. Sachin Tendulkar opened the batting for India in 2003 and had maximum success. The initial thought was to bat him at No 4. Trying to protect your best is a defensive act. But the fact is , he is your best because he has maximum talent and is the man to win you the most number of games. So I 'd go with you and say bring Virat back at three and make him as comfortable as possible . Jamie- At four , five and six , I 'd have Ambati Rayadu , Suresh Raina and MS Dhoni. There 's hardly any option and Dhoni and Raina are the two match winners we have. More importantly , I 'd go with Axar Patel at 7 even if Ravindra Jadeja recovers for Pakistan. Jadeja has n't played any cricket at all for two months and to get him back for the Pakistan game will be too big a risk. I can continue with Binny as well because he has shown glimpses of talent in the England game but I 'd not want to risk Jadeja . Boria- I 'd disagree on this. If possible , play Jadeja in at least one of the warm up matches , we play Afghanistan on 10 February , and get him match ready. Axar 's batting is a serious concern and Jadeja brings stability at number 7. Else the tail becomes too long and Dhoni too gets constrained in trying to accelerate. I think the most important selection conundrum for India at the moment is the number 7 slot. I agree with your point about Binny , but for me , it 's Jadeja at seven and only if you ca n't play him should you think of Binny . Jamie- Against Pakistan , it 's Ashwin who is my first choice as spinner. He bats better and has the experience of the big stage and then , I will opt for the three quicks in Mohd Shami , Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Umesh Yadav. Umesh has that X-factor and I still prefer him over Ishant despite not bowling at his best . Boria- I agree. Someone who can bowl the way he did against Australia at the death is an enigma of sorts. How can he be pedestrian in the very next game again ? That 's where the coach and the management need to talk to him. But I agree with the bowling line-up. Ashwin surely has to be the first spinner . Jamie- All said and done it 's a very tough ask , you know , when you think of some of the other teams like Australia , South Africa and New Zealand and the way they are playing . © Cricbuzz
