WC team preview : Can Pakistan shake off pre-World Cup slump ? New Delhi , Tue , Jan 27 2015 by Himanshu Shekhar Last updated on Tuesday , 27 January , 2015 , 07 : 09 AM Pakistan are in Pool B along with India , South Africa , West Indies , Zimbabwe , Ireland and UAE Pakistan 's World Cup opener is against India on February 15 Mohammad Irfan will spearhead Pakistan 's bowling attack in the World Cup. © Getty The numbers over the past year suggest that Pakistan have little chance at the 2015 ICC World Cup 2014. They started the 12-month cycle with a 3-2 win in the ODI series against Sri Lanka , rode a victory over India into the final of the Asia Cup but then lost a series in Sri Lanka , 0-3 to Australia and 2-3 to New Zealand in their home base of the United Arab Emirates. With just three wins in their last 11 starts , Pakistan have not had an ideal preparation going into the World Cup . Then again , have Pakistan ever had ideal preparations ? History suggests that when they have their backs to the wall , the mercurial team come up with performances that inspires , mesmerises and leaves the staunchest of critics awestruck. Pakistan cricket has been built around flair and survival instinct . Pakistan are placed in Group B with India , South Africa , West Indies , Zimbabwe , Ireland and the United Arab Emirates. They kick start their campaign on February 15 at Adelaide Oval against defending champions India in what promises to become the most-watched match in cricket history. Will this bring the best out of Pakistan and carry them past the quarter-finals ? Only time will tell . Group : Pool B Captain : Misbah-ul-Haq Strengths The bowling unit is easily the team 's biggest strength. Despite losing offspinner Saeed Ajmal to the ICC 's hardline approach against suspect bowling actions , Pakistan 's attack has the promise to do well. Sohail Khan , Junaid Khan , Ehsan Adil , Mohammad Irfan and Wahab Riaz give the team a nice blend. Sohail Khan , who many believe is a surprise pick , has been rewarded for being the highest wicket-taker in the Quaid-e-Azam Gold league. Junaid , Wahab and Irfan give the team a potent option of left-arm pace while legspinner Yasir Shah has emerged as a valuable wicket-taking option. Throw in Shahid Afridi and the attack wears a balanced look . Weaknesses Their fielding and middle-order batting seem to be in a neck-and-neck race. Younis Khan and skipper Misbah-ul-Haq 's conventional approach has not worked out well for the team. Pakistan 's fielding will be one of the biggest concerns for the team at the World Cup where the larger grounds can haunt them . X-factor The left-handed Haris Sohail 's form with the bat makes him a key figure in the line-up. Sohail , 25 , appears to have maturity beyond his years in finishing matches strongly and has runs under his belt. He has also chipped in with his bowling. Sohail brings the X-factor in a team which has always been dependent for it on Afridi . Dark horse Yasir Shah. Picked on the basis of his Test performances in 2014 , he is a genuine spinner. His stocks soared after public accolades from none other than Shane Warne. With his relaxed approach , Yasir brings an old-world charm to his bowling. He is the man oppositions would have to watch out for . Recent ODI form ( last six months ) v Sri Lanka : Lost 2-1 ( in Sri Lanka ) v Australia : Lost 3-0 ( in UAE ) v New Zealand : Lost 3-2 ( in UAE ) What they did in the 2011 World Cup Pakistan made it to the semi-finals where they were outplayed by India in Mohali , with the then Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and his Pakistan counterpart Yusuf Raza Gilani in attendance. It was a match which brought the subcontinent to a standstill. Earlier , Pakistan did well to beat Australia , Sri Lanka , Kenya , Zimbabwe and Canada but lost to New Zealand in the Group games. They stormed into the semi-finals by beating West Indies in a one-sided quarter-final in Dhaka . Squad : Misbah-ul-Haq ( capt ) , Ahmed Shehzad , Mohammad Hafeez , Sarfraz Ahmed ( wk ) , Younis Khan , Haris Sohail , Umar Akmal , Sohaib Maqsood , Shahid Afridi , Yasir Shah , Mohammad Irfan , Junaid Khan , Ehsan Adil , Sohail Khan and Wahab Riaz . Fixtures : February 15 , 2015 : India vs Pakistan , Adelaide Oval , Adelaide February 21 , 2015 : Pakistan vs West Indies , Hagley Oval , Christchurch March 1 , 2015 : Pakistan vs Zimbabwe , The Gabba , Brisbane March 4 , 2015 : Pakistan vs United Arab Emirates , McLean Park , Napier March 7 , 2015 : South Africa vs Pakistan , Eden Park , Auckland March 15 , 2015 : Pakistan vs Ireland , Adelaide Oval , Adelaide © Cricbuzz
