Sunil Narine withdraws from World Cup Bengaluru , Tue , Jan 27 2015 Last updated on Tuesday , 27 January , 2015 , 05 : 10 PM Narine was reported during CLT20 Narine 's withdrawal follows that of Saeed Ajmal , who was officially suspended by the ICC Sunil Narine has withdrawn from the World Cup after failing to sufficiently remodel his suspect action. © Getty The West Indies Cricket Board ( WICB ) on Tuesday announced that offspinner Sunil Narine has withdrawn from the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 after failing to sufficiently remodel his bowling action that was reported during the Champions League T20 tournament . Narine , 26 , was included in the 15-man squad for the World Cup by the Clive Lloyd-led selection committee despite sitting out of West Indies ' tours of India and South Africa. The spinner was reported and suspended for a suspect action during the Champions League T20 in September 2014 while playing for Kolkata Knight Riders. The suspension , however , was limited only to BCCI organised events . Since the suspension , Narine has undergone intense remedial work on his action with preliminary reports finding all his deliveries to be under the 15-degree flexion restriction. However , Narine opined that he needed more time to be able to bowl confidently with his new action for a sustained period of time . " Playing for Red Force and winning the NAGICO Super50 has been a big boost , but going in to the World Cup is a little too much too soon and , after consulting the WICB , for both West Indies and my sake we have decided to delay my return to international cricket until I am 100 % confident in all that I do. " " Whilst I am very happy with the progress made to date with my action , and I express my thanks to the coaches working with me in Trinidad and Dr Daryl Foster in Perth , Australia , I am withdrawing from the World Cup , " the off spinner was quoted as saying by a media release . Respecting Narine 's decision , a WICB spokesperson said that a replacement for the offspinner will be announced soon. " The WICB supports Narine 's decision to withdraw from the CWC squad as to risk his exposure to the intensity of the Cricket World Cup would be both unfair to him and the West Indies squad. Narine has taken a positive approach to his remedial work , remains in an optimistic frame of mind and looks forward to returning to international cricket at the earliest opportunity. " Narine 's withdrawal follows that of Saeed Ajmal who also cited a similar reasoning after facing an official suspension. The tournament in Australia-New Zealand will get underway on February 14th without the top-2 ODI bowlers . © Cricbuzz
