Speculation over CSK buyers as IPL slots auction for Feb 16 Mumbai , Wed , Jan 28 2015 by Vijay Tagore Last updated on Tuesday , 17 March , 2015 , 05 : 36 AM No official communication has been made to the franchises , but their representatives have been informally informed to block the date . Now that the auction date has been fixed , there appears to be no immediate danger to Chennai Super Kings or Rajasthan Royals . The date of the auction being pushed to February 16 is to allow BCCI president N Srinivasan to make arrangements for the expected transfer of his CSK shares to another party. © BCCL The authorities of the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) have scheduled this year 's auction for February 16 in Bangalore. No official communication has been made to the franchises , but their representatives have been informally informed to block the date . The obvious outcome of the development is a degree of clarity over the structure of IPL 8. There were question marks over Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals , should the Supreme Court-appointed three-member committee - chaired by former Chief Justice of India RM Lodha , and with former Supreme Court judges Ashok Bhan and RV Raveendran as members - give a verdict before start of the league on April 8 . However , now that the auction date has been fixed , there appears to be no immediate danger to these teams. " That is the inevitable inference. They have not told us anything about the players of the two teams. So we can assume that these two teams will be taking part in the IPL 8 at least , " said an official of a franchise . TIME FOR NEW OWNER ? There is another inference to the development as well. Originally , the auction was tentatively scheduled for February 9-10. Now that it has been postponed by a week , the impression gathering steam is that time has been given to BCCI president N Srinivasan to make arrangements for the expected transfer of his CSK shares to another party. It is also being said that the new party will have time to plan . Ranjib Biswal , the IPL chairman , refused to join the issue saying no interpretation should be attributed to the decision. " We 've no information about the expected date of verdict from the Supreme Court-appointed panel. We 're going ahead with our planning for the IPL 8 , " Biswal said. What if the panel announces action before the start of the IPL 8 ? " We 'll cross that bridge when we reach there , " Biswal retorted . A POTENTIAL CSK BUYER EMERGES Meanwhile , there is intense speculation over a prospective buyer for the team. A certain Varun Manian is being touted as an interested party along with the Mammens of MRF. Manian is a Chennai-based young billionaire builder , who reportedly got engaged to South Indian film star Trisha a few days ago. But a Srinivasan aide has said there will be a surprise on the way he hives off CSK from parent company , India Cements . However , the aide said no buyer has been approached. " That he will try to keep the BCCI post is given. We need a few days to kick start the process , " the aide said . There are unconfirmed reports of Srinivasan seeking a clarification from the Supreme Court over one grey area of the judgement but his lawyers contend that is not needed. Currently , Srinivasan is in Dubai for a meeting of the International Cricket Council ( ICC ) . Meanwhile , the IPL workshop will be held on February 17. The owners of the teams may attend it where the action plan for the league is discussed . © TNN
