KP , Yuvraj and Karthik re-enter auction New Delhi , Wed , Jan 28 2015 Last updated on Tuesday , 17 March , 2015 , 06 : 01 AM Kevin Pietersen , Yuvraj Singh , Dinesh Karthik and Hashim Amla enter the auctions at a base price of Rs 2 crore . The February 16 auction will have 724 players available for teams to buy for the upcoming IPL season . Delhi Daredevils , who released Kevin Pietersen after a disappointing 2014 IPL , will have the option to buy him back for a lesser amount. © BCCL Delhi Daredevils , followed by Royal Challengers Bangalore and Sunrisers Hyderabad will be the biggest spenders this year when the IPL auctions take place on February 16 , according to media reports. The Daredevils , who had let go of Kevin Pietersen and the Indian duo of Dinesh Karthik and Murali Vijay , will enter the player auctions with the biggest purse , but the pool of players available will only be revealed on February 4 . Along with Pietersen and Karthik , Yuvraj Singh , who was released by Royal Challengers Bangalore after attracting the highest bid in last year 's auction , will enter this year 's event with a base price of Rs 2 crore , as will South Africa 's Test captain Hashim Amla . The Royal Challengers enter the auctions with the second biggest purse of Rs 21 crore , helped by the release of Yuvraj , who was captured for Rs 14 crore alone. On top of that , an additional purse of Rs 3 crore will be available to each franchise over what they collected from releasing players . The Daredevils , who let go of 13 players after finishing at the bottom of the table in 2014 , intend to re-jig their entire squad and hope to recapture some of their released players at a cheaper cost , as will the Sunrisers , who have Rs 20.85 crore after letting go of Aaron Finch , Darren Sammy and Amit Mishra and seven other players . While the likes of Yuvraj and Karthik opted for a significant base price , Indian Test opener Murali Vijay , however , chose to enter the auction at a modest base price of Rs 50 lakh in order to attract more bids thanks to his limited time for India in coloured clothing . Kolkata Knight Riders and Rajasthan Royals have Rs 13 crore each while Kings XI Punjab , who made it to the final of the 2014 IPL , look the most settled unit and just released three players , L Balaji , Cheteshwar Pujara and Murali Kartik , who retired last year. While the future of Rajasthan Royals and Chennai Super Kings continues to be uncertain , they will enter the player auctions to beef up their squads . Franchise wallets Delhi Daredevils - Rs 40 crore Royal Challengers Bangalore - Rs 21 crore Sunrisers Hyderabad - Rs 20.85 crore Kolkata Knight Riders and Rajasthan Royals - Rs 13 crore each Kings XI Punjab - Rs 11.8 crore Mumbai Indians - Rs 10 crore Chennai Super Kings - Rs 5 crore © Cricbuzz Tags
