2nd ODI : Kane Williamson Fifty Helps New Zealand Draw Level With Pakistan 2nd ODI : Kane Williamson Fifty Helps New Zealand Draw Level With Pakistan Kane Williamson scored a 91-ball 70 not out for his 12th fifty -- his sixth in his last seven matches -- to help New Zealand chase down their 253-run target in 46 overs at Sharjah stadium to level the five-match series at 1-1 . Last updated on Saturday , 13 December , 2014 05 : 12 IST Total Shares Williamson led the Black Caps from the front . © AFP Sharjah : Skipper Kane Williamson hit a fighting half-century while paceman Matt Henry grabbed 4-45 to lead New Zealand to a disciplined four-wicket win over Pakistan in the second one-dayer in Sharjah on Friday . Williamson scored a 91-ball 70 not out for his 12th fifty -- his sixth in his last seven matches -- to help New Zealand chase down their 253-run target in 46 overs at Sharjah stadium to level the five-match series at 1-1 . However , a modest Williamson preferred to heap praise on his bowling attack , led by Henry . " I think kudos to our bowlers , that was a superb effort on a helpful batting pitch and then when we chased there were useful contributions , " he said . New Zealand had raced to 103 by the 19th over with Anton Devcich ( 58 ) and Dean Brownlie ( 47 ) batting solidly against some erratic pace bowling by Pakistan . But part-time spinner Haris Sohail , who had no wicket in his previous five matches , turned the game on its head by dismissing Ross Taylor ( two ) , Tom Latham ( three ) and Corey Anderson ( 10 ) to finish with 3-48 . Leg-spinner Shahid Afridi ( 2-47 ) had given Pakistan the breakthrough with Brownlie 's wicket before New Zealand lost five wickets in the space of just 64 runs . With 86 needed off 17.3 overs , Williamson added an invaluable 58 runs for the sixth wicket with Luke Ronchi ( 36 ) . Even when Afridi dismissed Ronchi , who hit six boundaries in his rapid 32-ball knock , Williamson and Daniel Vettori ( 13 not out ) stayed on course , with the former going on to hit seven boundaries . Afridi , who led the team after Misbah-ul Haq injured his hamstring , blamed poor bowling and batting . " We missed a good chance of posting a big total. We could have scored 280 and then did not bowl well , " said Afridi. " It 's even now and we have to come back in the third match. " Pakistan had won the first match by three wickets in Dubai. The remaining matches will be played in Sharjah ( Sunday ) and Abu Dhabi ( Wednesday and Friday ) . - Packed crowd - A packed 16,000 holiday crowd at Sharjah stadium enjoyed a game in which both teams had their moments . Earlier , Hafeez hit a 92-ball 76 with nine boundaries and a six while skipper Misbah-ul Haq chipped in with a 65-ball 47 to rescue Pakistan , who won the toss and batted , from a shaky 20-3 before they were bowled out for 252 in 48.3 overs . With his position under threat after his suspension over his illegal bowling action , Hafeez struck form in the nick of time as he added 77 for the fourth wicket with Sohail ( 33 ) and another 66 for the fifth with Misbah . Henry had jolted Pakistan by dismissing opener Ahmed Shehzad , caught behind in the first over for a duck , and then bowling Asad Shafiq ( one ) in his third . In between , seamer Mitchell McClenaghan , who took 3-56 , had Younis Khan for six . When it looked as if Pakistan would post a 300-plus total , Henry took Hafeez and Misbah , caught behind in the space of nine runs . Misbah , who hit two fours and two sixes , was n't happy with English umpire Richard Illingworth 's decision and call for a review , but it was to no avail . His dismissal left Pakistan seemingly derailed on 172-6 but Afridi hit three sixes and a boundary in his 14-ball 27 while Sarfraz Ahmed made 23 . Pakistan had earlier brought in Sohail Tanvir for Umar Gul , who was struggling for fitness , while New Zealand were forced to make three changes . Paceman Kyle Mills , all-rounder Jimmy Neesham and spinner Nathan McCullum made way for McClenaghan , Anderson and Henry . Story first published on : Saturday , 13 December 2014 04 : 07 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
