WC Countdown # 12 : South Africa 's dream start goes awry Sun , Feb 01 2015 by Bharath Ramaraj Last updated on Sunday , 01 February , 2015 , 06 : 27 AM © Agencies When South Africa took the field for the 1992 World Cup game against Australia in Sydney under the captaincy of Kepler Wessels , the Proteas were playing in their first mega-event. At that time , South Africa had just comeback to international cricket after 22 years of isolation by playing an ODI series against India , a few months before the World Cup. In fact , the palpating anxiety of the 11 players before the first ball was bowled was a true reflection of their nerves . Allan Donald , South Africa 's spearhead , who was even then known for his ability to bowl at a venomous pace , took the new ball. With zinc cream smeared on his face and adrenaline pumping , the redoubtable pacer charged into the crease to bowl a crunching delivery that pitched on a length and nipped away from Geoff Marsh , the Australian opener , to produce the edge and for Dave Richardson , the wicket-keeper , to take an easy catch . There was unfettered celebration in the camp , as the South African players thought they had snared a wicket off the first ball of the match. Marsh had a forlorn look on his face as even the batsman would have expected the standing umpire from New Zealand , Brian Aldridge , to raise the finger. To everyone 's surprise though , Aldridge was unmoved. Here was a delivery that had clearly taken the edge and almost carried to the first slip fielder , but the umpire did n't give the batsman out ! The entire South African team looked shell-shocked. In particular , Donald had a stunned looked on his face. South African cricketers though , recovered from the shock quickly. Donald bowled a fiery spell and Jonty Rhodes ' athletic fielding meant that Australia were bowled out for a paltry 170. South Africa chased down the target with nine wickets in hand. The significance of the victory could be seen by the fact that the South African line-up received congratulatory messages from then President F. W. de Klerk and Nelson Mandela . © Cricbuzz
