Ishant in doubt for World Cup : Reports Mumbai , Mon , Feb 02 2015 by Vijay Tagore Last updated on Monday , 02 February , 2015 , 05 : 40 AM Ishant Sharma is in doubt for the World Cup due to injury , according to sources in the BCCI . Mohit Sharma has been told not to leave Australia . Bhuvneshwar Kumar is also under the scanner . The team management has been given the deadline of February 05 to finalise the squad . Ishant Sharma is in doubt for the World Cup due to a knee injury. Mohit Sharma is likely to replace him. © Getty Mohit Sharma is likely to replace Ishant Sharma in the Indian squad for the 2015 World Cup. According to a report in the Mumbai Mirror , the BCCI has given the team management the deadline of February 05 to finalise the squad and weed out the injured players. The report stated that Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Ravindra Jadeja and Mohammed Shami are all having fitness issues but Ishant 's case is more serious . Mohit bowled with good pace and accuracy during India 's match against England in Perth and he finished with figures of 10-1-36-2. Ishant has been suffering from a knee injury since the end of the Melbourne Test in December. He missed the Sydney Test and was not picked for the first two ODIs in the tri-series. He resumed training and was picked in the Australia Day clash in Sydney but the match was rained out and Ishant was unable to bowl. He was dropped for the Perth match against England and the doubts over his fitness has only grown. The report also stated that Mohit has been told not to leave Australia . The BCCI have refused to talk about the fitness issues of the team. However , sources within the BCCI told Mumbai Mirror that there will be some changes to the squad. A source said , " We ca n't sit back and watch silently. There is a need to address the issue before it is too late. We 'll take a final call by February 05. At this stage , Ishant looks doubtful for World Cup. " There are concerns regarding Bhuvneshwar Kumar 's injury and form as well. Bhuvneshwar , who missed the first three Tests due to an ankle injury , featured in the Sydney Test but he looked rusty and his pace was down. The BCCI is reportedly keeping Bhuvneshwar under the scanner but there is no further clarity on his status . The Indian players have opted to take a break and the BCCI have booked them in a resort near Adelaide to help the team recover. They will come back to Adelaide on February 05 and resume training ahead of their first warm-up game against Australia on February 08. India will open their World Cup campaign against Pakistan in Adelaide on February 15 . © TNN
