WC Countdown # 11 : Flower , Olonga and the death of democracy Mon , Feb 02 2015 by Feroz Khan Last updated on Monday , 02 February , 2015 , 08 : 55 AM © Getty Zimbabwe cricketers , Andy Flower and Henry Olonga made powerful statements when they issued a joint press statement right before their country was preparing to host its first World Cup match on February 10 , 2003 , to " mourn the death of democracy in our beloved Zimbabwe " . They followed it by another gesture by wearing black armbands while on the field. The actions took everyone by surprise , even their team-mates , who had no idea of what was about to unfold . It was the second match in Pool A - Zimbabwe taking on Namibia at the Harare Sports Club. After being sent in , the hosts began brightly and before opener Mark Vermeulen departed , they had scored 107 in 21.4 overs. It was then when Andy Flower walked in at No3 , wearing a black armband and later on , Olonga was also seen sporting one of his own . Not that it was a sudden decision. The seeds had already been sown a long time back as globally Robert Mugabe , who while leading a one-party regime in Zimbabwe , was severely criticised for human rights violations in the country and blamed for leaving millions of Zimbabweans starving , unemployed and oppressed. The pair of Flower and Olonga was well aware that by indulging in such actions , they were risking their international careers , and more importantly , their lives. However , both were prepared for the consequences . While the international community lauded their brave efforts , Zimbabwe 's ruling politicians and cricket board condemned their actions , with propaganda minister Jonathan Moyo terming Olonga as " Uncle Tom " who had " a black skin and a white mask " . The national board reported them to ICC , but the world cricket governing body refused to take any action , instead returning the matter to them . As expected , Olonga was expelled by his club , Takashinga , on the basis of breaking the code of conduct by indulging in politics on the field of cricket. Consequently , he became ineligible to play for the national team and after receiving death threats , he moved to England where he made a career in singing and public speaking. On the other hand , when the cricket board decided to drop Flower from the national team , the players threatened to strike en masse and so the officials relented. He , however , retired from international cricket after the World Cup and signed with English county Essex . Such was their impact that the focus totally shifted from the on-field action where Craig Wishart scored an unbeaten 172 to guide Zimbabwe to 342/7 - their then highest total in ODIs. Zimbabwe comfortably won the rain-affected game by 86 runs ( D/L ) . © Cricbuzz
