ICC rankings : Australia enter home World Cup as No 1 New Delhi , Mon , Feb 02 2015 Last updated on Monday , 02 February , 2015 , 09 : 19 AM Glenn Maxwell and Mitchell Starc caught the eye in the latest rankings. © Getty Australia will head into the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup as the world 's No 1 ODI team , an International Cricket Council press release confirmed on Monday. Australia remained undefeated in their Carlton Mid Tri-Series triumph to move six points clear of defending World Cup winners India and seven ahead of South Africa , who are seen as title contenders this year . Australia batsman Glenn Maxwell , who turned in career-best performances in both batting ( 95 ) and bowling ( 4 for 46 ) against England in the tri-series final at the WACA on Sunday , jumped 19 places to 17th place in the rankings for ODI batsmen. Steven Smith , who made a century on his captaincy debut against England in the league stage , move up 16 places to occupy 30th spot. Allrounder James Faulkner , who is a doubt for the World Cup after suffering a rib injury in the final , is another player to gained ; he moved up 14 places to a career-best 21st . Among the Indian batsmen , Virat Kohli and Shikhar Dhawan went down one spot each to third and seventh respectively , having failed to make any impression with the bat in the tri-series. However , India captain MS Dhoni registered a one-spot jump to eighth. Kane Williamson , on the back of 295 runs in New Zealands 4-2 triumph over Sri Lanka recently , took the sixth spot after a rise of four places. South Africa 's AB de Villiers and Hashim Amla occupy the top two positions . In the bowlers ' rankings , Australian left-arm medium pacer Mitchell Starc , who took 12 wickets to win the Man-of-the-Series award , rose five places to seventh , and was two positions behind fellow left-armer Mitchell Johnson , who returned from a hamstring injury to take three wickets in Sunday 's final . England fast bowler James Anderson also moved two places to fourth. Pakistan spinner Saeed Ajmal , who withdrew from the World Cup having failed to fix his bowling action in time , remained at the summit and was followed by West Indies spinner Sunil Narine , who will also miss the quadrennial tournament on account of a suspect bowling action . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
