Australia ca n't win World Cup without Clarke : Shane Warne Mon , Feb 02 2015 Last updated on Monday , 02 February , 2015 , 01 : 43 PM Shane Warne says Australia need regular captain Michael Clarke back in the playing eleven if they are to win the World Cup . He also added that George Bailey could be a liability against stronger teams , and with Clarke 's inclusion , the side would bear a more solid batting outlook . Warne feels that Mitchell Starc will be Australia 's trump card during the World Cup . However , he added that Australia will face problems over playing three left-armers in the same game . We all admire Clarke 's imagination and flair as a captain , so I would get him in for that first game if he proves his fitness : Shane Warne © Getty Shane Warne , Australia 's spin legend , has fired a warning shot to ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 co-hosts , Australia saying the side needs regular captain Michael Clarke back in the playing eleven if they are to claim their fifth World Cup crown . Clarke has been fighting time and fitness issues to find his way back into the side before Australia take on England on February 14. Clarke was named in Australia 's 15-man squad for the quadrennial event , but National Selector Rod Marsh had added that he would be given until Australia 's second match ( February 21 against Bangladesh ) to prove his fitness. Warne told Sky Sports that without Clarke 's imagination and flair as a captain , Australia would not succeed in going all the way. He also added that George Bailey could be a liability against stronger teams , and with Clarke 's inclusion , and subsequently Bailey 's exclusion , the side would bear a more solid batting outlook . " I do n't think Australia can win the World Cup without Clarke. Australia were in disarray just over 12 months ago but under his captaincy , they won the Ashes 5-0 and then beat South Africa in South Africa , " Warne said . " We all admire Clarke 's imagination and flair as a captain , so I would get him in for that first game if he proves his fitness and say : 'This is our side , let 's get out and play'. Good bowlers can bowl at [ stand-in skipper ] George Bailey and make him unable to hurt you , so I would say if Clarke is fit , Bailey drops out , and the rest of the top five David Warner , Aaron Finch , Shane Watson and Steve Smith picks itself , " he added . Speaking on Australia 's bowling attack , Warne said Mitchell Starc , who won the Man of the Series in the recently-concluded tri-series also involving India and England , will be the trump card. However , with Mitchell Johnson and James Faulkner also taking important slots in the side , he added that Australia will face problems over playing three left-armers in the same game . " Starc will be key. He has really played well in the one-dayers , making the white ball talk , and his death bowling is pretty good. I do n't think Australia would like to play three left-armers in ( James ) Faulkner , Starc and ( Mitchell ) Johnson , but with the form at the moment , they may have to. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
