Junaid Khan ruled out of World Cup Mon , Feb 02 2015 Last updated on Monday , 02 February , 2015 , 07 : 37 PM Bilawat Bhatti is likely to be named Junaid Khan 's replacement . Junaid is yet to recover from a thigh strain sustained on January 15 in Lahore . Junaid Khan 's absence is a body blow for Pakistan. © AFP Pakistan fast bowler Junaid Khan has been ruled out of the 2015 ICC World Cup after failing a fitness test on Monday. The left-arm pacer sustained a hamstring injury during a training session in Lahore last month and has failed to recover. The injury had kept Junaid out of the two-ODI series against New Zealand where allrounder Bilawal Bhatti was named as his replacement . " Junaid appeared in a fitness test and was not found fit enough to play the World Cup , " a Pakistan Cricket Board ( PCB ) spokesman said on Monday. Bhatti is likely to remain in the Pakistan squad as Junaid 's replacement for the mega event . Pakistan 's bowling attack , in the absence of Junaid , will now heavily bank on tall left-arm pacer Mohammad Irfan as experienced pacer Umar Gul is out with a knee injury and offspinner Saeed Ajmal is serving a suspension for a suspect bowling action. Plus , allrounder Mohammad Hafeez is fighting a race against time to get his action cleared by the ICC. Hafeez , who was suspended in November last year , is set for a re-examination on February 6 . Junaid was out of action for two months after suffering a knee injury in October 2014. He came back to competitive cricket with 11 wickets in five List-A one-day ties in December-January. His performance was good enough to earn him a place in the final 15-man squad for the World Cup . The medical staff examined Junaid and found " the traction injury of the nerve in the posterior right thigh " and has advised a fitness regime at the National Cricket Academy. " It 's a heartbreak for me. I could n't pass the fitness test and am not able to play the World Cup. All my prayers are with the team , " Junaid is quoted as saying by AFP . Pakistan play the second and final one-day against New Zealand on Tuesday before leaving for Australia where they open their World Cup campaign against arch-rivals India in Adelaide on February 15 . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
