Faulkner out of Australia 's World Cup opener Melbourne , Tue , Feb 03 2015 Last updated on Tuesday , 03 February , 2015 , 03 : 42 AM James Faulkner suffered a side strain during the tri-series final against England in Perth . Cricket Australia have not named a replacement for Faulkner in the squad . James Faulkner suffered a side strain during Australia 's 112-run win over England in the tri-series final in Perth on Sunday. © Agencies James Faulkner will miss Australia 's opening match of the World Cup against England in Melbourne on February 14 due to a side strain. Faulkner was the star in Australia 's tri-series final win against England in Perth , smashing a fifty off 24 balls and picking up the wicket of Joe Root with his first ball. However , in his third over , Faulkner pulled up and walked off the field . The allrounder underwent scans in Melbourne on Monday and was diagnosed with a moderate grade abdominal strain. He faces a fortnight of intensive treatment before being reassessed , after which his World Cup fate will be decided. Australia team physiotherapist Alex Kountouris said Faulkner will travel with the squad to Adelaide for Australia 's first warm-up match against India on February 08 . " Scans on Faulkner 's injured side have confirmed a moderate grade abdominal muscle strain , which is consistent with a 'typical ' fast-bowling side strain injury. He will receive intensive treatment for the next two weeks before we can determine when he can return to batting and bowling , " he said to the official Cricket Australia website . Faulkner 's injury is a big blow for Australia. He was their leading wicket-taker in 2014 with 19 wickets in 14 games while his finishing prowess with the bat has helped the team immensely. His injury deepens Australia 's woes , with Michael Clarke already facing a fitness deadline. Clarke 's deadline for recovery is Australia 's second World Cup match against Bangladesh in Brisbane on February 21 . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
