Hazlewood : England do n't know how to beat us Perth , Wed , Feb 04 2015 Last updated on Wednesday , 04 February , 2015 , 03 : 49 AM Josh Hazlewood expects Australia 's domination to continue against England . England have lost 13 out of 15 ODIs against Australia in Australia . Josh Hazlewood believes Australia hold the edge over England heading into the World Cup opener at the MCG on February 14. © Getty Josh Hazlewood believes Australia hold the edge over England heading into the World Cup opener at the MCG on February 14. Hazlewood stated that England will be " scratching their heads " when it comes to working out a game plan to beat Australia . England have not had a great time against Australia in ODIs. In the last 10 ODIs between these two nations , Australia have won eight and lost just two. They have also won 13 out of 15 ODIs against England at home and Hazlewood expects the dominance to continue . Speaking to the official Cricket Australia website , Hazlewood said : " We 've been pretty good in one-day series this summer. So to have England again in the first game , hopefully we can get off to a flyer and beat them to get our competition underway. I do n't think they quite know how to beat us yet , especially in Australia. We 've obviously proved that over the last few years and especially in this series. " Hazlewood believes Australia 's pace bowlers are unlikely to be rotated in the tournament. " I think we 'll stick with the same XI for most of the World Cup. With the games being a week apart , there 's no reason to rest fast bowlers so it should be all systems go. I think there was a good indication on Sunday of what the XI is going to be , obviously apart from little injuries here and there , " he said . The New South Wales pace bowler has enjoyed a wonderful time with the ball. He started off the summer with nine wickets in four games against South Africa , including a maiden five-wicket haul. This performance resulted in his selection for the Test series against India and he responded by taking a five-wicket haul on debut in Brisbane. He finished with 12 wickets in three Tests and in the tri-series final in Perth , he picked up 2/13 against England to ensure Australia remained unbeaten in the summer . " It 's obviously been a breakthrough summer for me in all formats pretty much so I 'm happy to keep it going and keep bowling well. I 'm excited to hopefully get the new ball on a few occasions and keep doing what I 've been doing , " he said . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
