Is this New Zealand 's best shot at the World Cup ? Wed , Feb 04 2015 by Siddharth Vishwanathan Last updated on Wednesday , 04 February , 2015 , 04 : 54 AM New Zealand lost only one series in 2014 . Both the batting and bowling have been working well . Before the 2015 World Cup , New Zealand have established a winning habit that is bordering on Australia-like consistency and efficiency. © AFP New Zealand are approaching the 2015 ICC World Cup in a different way. The air of unpredictability that has been hanging around the team for the last couple of seasons has given away to a winning habit that is bordering on Australia-like consistency and efficiency. From the depths of despair in October 2013 when they were swept away 0-3 by Bangladesh , New Zealand have established a consistency under the captaincy of Brendon McCullum that has been eye-catching . The first giant steps in their path to success was their 4-0 series win over India , a team that had won six out of seven bilateral ODI series , in early 2014. Later in the year - they did not play ODIs in the West Indies - the team showed they were no pushovers when they defeated Pakistan 3-2 in the UAE . After a blip in the series against South Africa which they lost 2-0 , New Zealand roared back by winning 4-2 against Sri Lanka and sweeping Pakistan 2-0. Skipper McCullum has said that he is happy with the way the pre-World Cup pieces are falling into place. Slowly , like a well-oiled machine , every single component of the New Zealand team is functioning to optimum effect. It is a complete team in all facets and this World Cup gives New Zealand a golden chance to win the World Cup . Here 's why . Aggression at the top Think of World Cup opening partnerships since 1992 and one observes that the team which had the most devastating openers have done wonderfully. In 1992 , it was Mark Greatbatch 's aggression which propelled New Zealand. In 1996 , Sanath Jayasuriya and Romesh Kaluwitharana stole the show. In 1999 , 2003 and 2007 , Adam Gilchrist , in company with Mark Waugh and then Matthew Hayden , decimated oppositions. In 2011 , India were served well by Virender Sehwag and Sachin Tendulkar . Heading into this World Cup , McCullum and Martin Guptill are the openers who can take the game away with their aggression. McCullum has blazed away this summer although he has not yet sustained it for longer periods. Guptill has struggled for consistency but with 115 runs at an average of 57 in the recent series against Pakistan , he is slowly coming back to his destructive best. If Guptill and McCullum blaze away , every opposition has a good chance of getting steamrolled . Kane Williamson in top form Williamson is in freakish form , scoring 1114 runs at an average of 74.2. In 15 matches , he has nine fifties and three centuries. These numbers define consistency and heading into the tournament , Williamson is capable of creating waves in this tournament. Thanks to Williamson 's consistency , New Zealand have stability even if the openers fail . A solid middle order If Williamson fails , Ross Taylor offers the buffer. He started off 2014 with three consecutive centuries ( two against India at home and one against Pakistan in the UAE ) and after a slight dip in form , came back strongly with 96 in the sixth ODI against Sri Lanka in Dunedin. By scoring a fifty and a hundred in the two matches against Pakistan , Taylor has signalled his readiness for the tournament . The masterstroke , though , is the inclusion of Grant Elliott. There was plenty of criticism of Elliott 's selection , with many believing that Jimmy Neesham was given an unfair deal. However , Elliott was silently making a case for himself with some solid knocks for Wellington in the 2014-15 Ford Trophy . In four matches , he had made 193 runs at an average of 48 and a strike-rate of 101. With the ball , he had taken six wickets at an economy rate of 5.71. By his performances , Elliott was slowly building a case for himself in New Zealand 's middle order. After a failure in his comeback match , he then showed his utility by reviving New Zealand in an 88-run stand with Williamson in Nelson to help script victory by four wickets in pursuit of 277. In Dunedin , Elliott again underlined his worth as he shared a world record 267-run stand with Luke Ronchi to blow Sri Lanka away. While Ronchi pulverised the Sri Lankan bowling , Elliott provided a calming influence and played some smart cricket by scoring at a healthy pace. His value increased in the coming matches and in the first ODI against Pakistan , he picked up 3 for 26 and scored an unbeaten 64 to help the hosts to victory in Wellington. By his performances , Elliott is living up to his nickname of 'Magic' . Then there is Corey Anderson , who has enjoyed a good run with both bat and ball against Sri Lanka and Pakistan. His 81 in the first ODI against Sri Lanka came when the team was in a spot of bother at 101 for 5 chasing 219 for victory. In his last three ODIs , Anderson also came good with the ball by taking nine wickets. The fact that he can play aggressively and sensibly according to the situation makes him a useful player when it comes to finishing the innings. With the middle order having solidity , sensibility and aggression , New Zealands batting is in great shape . Luke Ronchi During New Zealand 's only series loss in 2014 to South Africa , Ronchi was the bright star with knocks of 99 and 79. For a long time , New Zealand had been craving for stability in the wicketkeeping department for Brendon McCullum. Ronchi seemed to have answered that call during the series against Sri Lanka. In the fourth ODI in Nelson , New Zealand needed 25 off 18 balls but Ronchi changed the course of the match by smashing three sixes and a boundary off Thisara Perera to seal a four-wicket win . If his unbeaten 32 off 15 balls signalled Ronchi 's finishing prowess , then his knock in Dunedin put him in a different league. At 93 for 5 , Ronchi stepped in and proceeded to dismantle the Sri Lankan bowlers. His aggression was sustained and in an exhibition of clean hitting , Ronchi blasted 170 , the third-highest score by a wicketkeeper in ODIs and the highest by an Kiwi keeper. Ronchi 's steady keeping behind the wickets has allowed McCullum to play and captain in a free mind . New Zealand 's pace arsenal They are spoilt for choices when it comes to the pace bowling department. Adam Milne has excited with his pace and ability to trouble the batsmen in all conditions , which makes him the X-factor in the team. Trent Boult and Tim Southee are proven match-winners while Mitchell McClenaghan 's strike-rate in ODIs gives them plenty of attacking options. The dark horse in the bowling line-up remains Kyle Mills. At 35 , the experience he lends to the bowling is vital. With his ability to vary his pace and bowl accurately in slow conditions , Mills has underlined his worth. The best part about the bowling is the ability of the bowlers to hunt in pairs and keep chipping at regular intervals . Spin - a weak link If there is a potential weakness in the bowling , it is in the spin department. Daniel Vettori has made a comeback after a long injury break. In five matches against Sri Lanka , Vettori picked up only one wicket but he finished with an economy rate of 4.30. It will be interesting to see whether New Zealand employ him as an attacking option or as a container during the middle overs . On the other hand , Nathan McCullum is a decent utility player. Both players have tended to be inconsistent with the bat while they have struggled with penetration with the ball. New Zealand coach Mike Hesson has said the rotation policy of the bowlers will continue depending upon the conditions and the opposition. The major rotation , in all probability , will take place between these two . © Cricbuzz
