WC Countdown # 9 - Jonty Rhodes ' stunning run-out of Inzamam Wed , Feb 04 2015 Last updated on Wednesday , 04 February , 2015 , 07 : 33 AM © Getty 'Jonty Rhodes knew there was a chance , decided not to throw , other than himself. He gets there first , and wipes everything out.' March 08 , 1992. The day Jonty Rhodes announced himself. The day he became synoymous with jaw-dropping fielding. 22 years old , with a mop cut that made him look younger than he actually was , and as vigilant and spectacular as they come - Rhodes was certainly a sight to behold in a South African team that had made its debut in World Cups and was already getting everybody to sit up and take notice . Already recognized as a superlative fielder , Rhodes took it a notch further up during the game against Pakistan. His run-out of Inzamam-ul-Haq is easily one of the most viewed videos and pictures in cricket , but even 22 years after his incredible leap to shatter the stumps at the strikers end , the moment remains enduring and awe-inspiring . Chasing a revised target of 194 in 36 overs , Pakistan were closing in thanks to a vital stand of 61 between captain Imran Khan and Inzamam. Inzi , in particular , looked in ominous touch and had slammed his way to 48. Ominous until he decided to sneak a single off Brian McMillan in the 31st over . The Pakistan batsman missed a heave and tried to steal a leg-bye. He only taken a few steps towards the non-strikers end before he was sent back by Imran Khan. Jonty Rhodes , fielding at point , however , was on the ball in a flash. With only one stump to aim at , Jonty opted for something more eye-catching than a throw. He raced forward and hurled himself towards the stumps. His arm fully outstretched , and his body parallel to the ground Rhodes shattered the stumps. Inzamam was caught short of the crease and South Africa had claimed the all-important wicket . That proved to be the turning point in the game and South Africa went on to win the rain-marred game by 20 runs . © Cricbuzz
