Kohli , the outrageously talented fighter New Delhi , Thu , Feb 05 2015 by Partha Badhuri Last updated on Thursday , 05 February , 2015 , 03 : 10 AM The World Cup offers Kohli the perfect platform to begin the transition from 'very good ' to 'great' A rookie in the 2011 edition , Kohli has n't put a foot wrong in limited-overs cricket and is raking up hundreds like a walk in the park . India will be heavily reliant on Virat Kohli in the World Cup. © Getty At one point during India 's recent Test tour of Australia , Virat Kohli got sick of being asked for the umpteenth time by the Australian media about sledging. " What can I do , they just do n't seem to be learning the lesson , " Kohli shot back. The remark was greeted with loud guffaws but the point was n't lost - he was not asked about the issue again. In cricketing parlance , Kohli was merely 'taking the fight to the opposition ' , something he has been adept at since his gully cricket days in West Delhi 's Punjabi Bagh . There 's a bit of Javed Miandad in India 's loud , brash , naughty , stylish , tattooed , confrontational yet outrageously talented 26-year-old batting mainstay. Along with the street-fighting instincts comes a fierce desire to win at all cost. Sometimes it can have its downside too - when Kohli brings the same attitude to the team 's warm-up football sessions , which often get more intense than intended. At other times , when he accuses his longtime coach Rajkumar Sharma of favouring the opposition when playing friendly handball games at his West Delhi Cricket Academy , it can even seem silly . But when Kohli the Test captain talks about the need for India to shed their defensive approach in away Tests and chase victory at all costs , it is evident why he is so crucial to India 's fortunes. Kohli 's sheer consistency , methodical attitude at the crease , ability to finish games and goosebump-inducing on-side play make him indispensable. But it is this almost cut-throat craving to impose his presence on the opposition that makes Kohli the face of Indian cricket . Recently , Kohli has shown signs of tempering his combative attitude with an inner calm. " I used to put a lot of pressure on myself. Now I believe in myself , " he said after the Sydney Test. Though this is a recent acquisition , it points to a career which ran the full gamut of fame , fortune , fall and rise even before Kohli became a brand phenomenon and a household name . It was on May 20 , 1998 , the day the West Delhi Cricket academy opened , that advocate and businessman Prem Kohli brought his two sons , the plumpy nine-year-old Virat and the elder Vikas to Rajkumar Sharma. " Make them cricketers , " was his simple instruction. The elder one soon fell away from the coach 's radar but Virat was a different story. " His technique was bottom-handed even then and all over the place but he was a ladaku ( fighter ) . I literally had to prise the bat away from his hands. " Sharma arranged for a bat sponsor who complained that the investment was too long , worked on curbing Kohli 's instinctive need to flick every ball and soon a career of sorts was on its way : under 14 years of age , Kohli was the youngest to play the 'A ' division league but missed the U 15 cut because of Delhi 's divisive cricket politics . Sharma took Kohli to the Feroz Shah Kotla and spewed venom at the selectors , who admitted the youngster was the most talented but there was no place for him in the squad. Kohli cried , was comforted by then-Delhi coach Bishan Singh Bedi , earned a slot the next year , scored two double hundreds and began cursing at selectors after reaching each ton. It took many years to get rid of the habit . The turning point came through a tragedy. Soon after his first-class debut in December 2006 , during a Ranji Trophy game against Karnataka , a 3 am call informed him about his father 's passing away. Kohli , the overnight batsman , called up Rajkumar , who was then in Australia , and asked if he should play on. The coach told him to play. Kohli scored 90 the next day , got out to a bad decision and went to the funeral. Something changed in him that day. Kohli had to support a family and everything hinged on cricket . The U 19 World Cup triumph in Kuala Lumpur saw the first glimpse of Kohli the leader and marked a career-high , but the first IPL season with Royal Challengers Bangalore brought complications of its own. " He was on TV every day , there was money and glamour , it was all too much for him , " says a family source , adding : " His indiscipline began to affect his cricket and we had to be very strict with him. Those days were tough. We began to fear for him. Luckily , after repeated reminders that it was only cricket which gave him his identity , Virat learnt to say no. He learnt to handle the limelight. " Kohli has come a long way from those uncertain times to being anointed the world 's most marketable sports star. The pranks have n't ceased. Once , he took his coach and brother to a restaurant and used a new cell phone feature to increase and decrease the volume on a nearby TV set , mystifying the waiters and management. " I told him , whatever you do , please do n't let us get beaten up , " says Sharma of that incident. Kohli is still close to childhood friends but fame has ensured he makes very few new ones , though a well-publicised romance has put the spotlight on his private life . Even now , Kohli 's overconfidence at times gets the better of him. From a superlative Test series in Australia to a poor tri-series where he has been shunted up and down the order , the World Cup offers Kohli the perfect platform to begin the transition from 'very good ' to 'great'. His is one story which has begun well but is still being written . © TNN
