Michael Clarke : Not ready for international cricket yet Thu , Feb 05 2015 Last updated on Monday , 09 February , 2015 , 11 : 04 AM Michael Clarke bowled two overs and made 34 in a practice match against Bangladesh . Clarke ruled himself out of Australia 's official World Cup warm-up game against India at the Adelaide Oval on Sunday . Michael Clarke bowled two overs and made 34 in a practice match against Bangladesh. © Getty Playing for Cricket Australia XI , Michael Clarke bowled two overs and made 34 in a practice match against Bangladesh on Thursday but said he was n't yet ready for international cricket . The Australia Test and ODI captain has n't played international cricket since suffering a hamstring injury in the first Test against India in Adelaide in December. Despite injury concerns , he was named in the 2015 ICC World Cup squad , on condition he proved his fitness ahead of team 's second Pool A game against Bangladesh on February 21.Last week on his return to competitive cricket , Clarke scored 51 for Western Suburbs in Sydney Grade Cricket . " The ideal world was to field for at least half the game I managed 32 overs which was nice , " Clarke , who had been set a target of fielding a minimum of 25 overs by the Cricket Australia medical staff , told reporters after the Bangladesh game . " The body feels good , I just got a bit more treatment now but I pulled up pretty well. I 've been bowling for the past three weeks in the nets . " The [ CA XI ] skipper [ Ashton Turner ] needed a couple of overs so he asked if I was happy to bowl and I was certainly happy to bowl a couple of overs there . " Then to have a bat as well - it was another step forward.My opinion , I think there 's probably still a gap between where I am now and playing a one-day international for Australia . " The fortunate thing is I 've got plenty of time to close that gap. " Australia play India in an official World Cup warm-up at the Adelaide Oval on Sunday and Clarke will join his team-mates on Friday. However , he ruled himself out of the game. " At this stage I do n't think I 'm playing that match [ against India ] , " Clarke said . " The plan is for me to join the boys in Adelaide , fly with the boys to Melbourne then play the practice match against the UAE [ at the MCG on Wednesday ] . " They probably would have liked a hundred today , probably would have liked me to field for the whole 50 overs as well. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
