WC team preview : Mercurial Pakistan hope to go the distance Thu , Feb 05 2015 by Himanshu Shekhar Last updated on Thursday , 05 February , 2015 , 11 : 04 AM Misbah-ul-Haq will try to emulate the heroics of Imran Khan , who led Pakistan to the World Cup triumph Down Under in 1992 Their ODI form over the past year suggests that Pakistan will not have an easy ride during the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Pakistan cricket has been built around flair and survival instinct. © Getty Misbah-ul-Haq will try to emulate the heroics of Imran Khan , who led Pakistan to the World Cup triumph Down Under in 1992 but , considering their form , it wo n't be an easy ride . Starts : The numbers over the past year suggest that Pakistan have little chance at the ICC Cricket World Cup 2014. They started the 12-month cycle with a 3-2 win in the ODI series against Sri Lanka , rode a victory over India into the final of the Asia Cup but they lost a series in Sri Lanka and 0-3 to Australia and 2-3 to New Zealand in their home base of the United Arab Emirates. With just three wins in their last 11 matches , Pakistan have not had an ideal preparation , going into the World Cup . Then again , have Pakistan ever had ideal preparation ? History suggests that when they have their backs to the wall , the mercurial team come up with performances that inspire , mesmerise and leave the staunchest of critics awestruck. Pakistan cricket has been built around flair and survival instinct . Pakistan are placed in Group B with India , South Africa , the West Indies , Zimbabwe , Ireland and the United Arab Emirates. They kick start their campaign on February 15 at the Adelaide Oval against defending champions India in what promises to become the most-watched match in cricket history. Will this bring the best out of Pakistan and carry them past the quarter-finals ? Only time will tell . Group : Pool B Captain : Misbah-ul-Haq Strengths : The bowling unit is easily the team 's biggest strength. Despite losing offspinner , Saeed Ajmal to the ICC 's hardline approach against suspect actions , Pakistan 's attack has the promise to do well Down Under. Sohail Khan , Junaid Khan , Ehsan Adil , Mohammad Irfan and Wahab Riaz give the team a nice blend. Sohail Khan , who many believe is a surprise pick , has been rewarded for being the highest wicket-taker in the Quaid-e-Azam Gold league. Junaid Khan , Wahab Riaz and Md. Irfan give the team a potent option of left-arm fast while Yasir Shah has emerged as a wicket-taking option. Throw in Shahid Afridi and the attack wears a balanced look . Weaknesses : Fielding and their middle-order batting seem to be in a neck-and-neck race. Younis Khan and skipper Misbah-ul-Haq 's conventional approach has not worked out well for the team. Pakistan 's fielding will be one of the biggest concerns for the team at the World Cup where the larger grounds can haunt the team . X-factor : The left-handed Haris Sohail 's form with the bat makes him a key figure in the line-up. The 25-year-old has maturity beyond his years in finishing strong and has runs under his belt. He has also chipped in with his bowling. Sohail brings the X-factor in a team which has always been dependent for it on Shahid Afridi . Dark horse : Yasir Shah. Picked on basis of his Test performances in 2014 , he is a genuine spinner. His stocks soared after public accolades from none other than but Shane Warne. With his relaxed approach , Yasir Shah brings an old-world charm to his bowling. He is the man opposition would have to watch out for . Recent ODI form : Versus Australia : Lost 3-0 ( in UAE ) Versus New Zealand : Lost 3-2 ( in UAE ) What they did in 2011 World Cup : Pakistan made it to the semi-final where they were outplayed by India in Mohali , with the then Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and his Pakistan counterpart Yusuf Raza Gilani in attendance. It was a match which brought the sub-continent to a standstill. Earlier , Pakistan did well to beat Australia , Sri Lanka , Kenya , Zimbabwe and Canada but lost to New Zealand in the Group games. They stormed into the semi-final by beating West Indies in a one-sided quarter-final in Dhaka . Squad : Misbah-ul-Haq ( captain ) , Ahmed Shehzad , Mohammad Hafeez , Sarfraz Ahmed , Younis Khan , Haris Sohail , Umar Akmal , Sohaib Maqsood , Shahid Afridi , Yasir Shah , Mohammad Irfan , Junaid Khan , Ehsan Adil , Sohail Khan and Wahab Riaz Group fixtures : February 15 , 2015 : India vs Pakistan , Adelaide Oval , Adelaide . February 21 , 2015 : Pakistan vs West Indies , Hagley Oval , Christchurch . March 1 , 2015 : Pakistan vs Zimbabwe,The Gabba , Brisbane . March 4 , 2015 : Pakistan vs United Arab Emirates , McLean Park , Napier . March 7 , 2015 : South Africa vs Pakistan , Eden Park , Auckland . March 15 , 2015 : Pakistan vs Ireland , Adelaide Oval , Adelaide . © Cricbuzz
