WC Countdown # 8 - A different ball game for Adam Gilchrist New Delhi , Thu , Feb 05 2015 by Kaushik Rangarajan Last updated on Thursday , 05 February , 2015 , 12 : 50 PM © Getty Tom Freston , former CEO of MTV , put a spin on what he considered innovation. He said , " Innovation is taking two things that already exist and putting them together in a new way " . In 2007 , a cricket glove and squash ball , two things that had been in existence for quite a while , were put together and 149 hugely significant runs were born of their union . By his standards , Adam Gilchrist had had a quiet World Cup in 2007 , especially in comparison to his opening partner Matthew Hayden. As Australia swept away one opposition after another , the wait for a Gilchrist special increased. Then one fine day , it was the World Cup final. Familiarity , they say , breeds contempt. Not for that Australian team. They played World Cup finals for fun and won . Standing up to Australia in Barbados were Sri Lanka , only the second side to have previously beaten them in a World Cup final. The scene was set and the spectators were served an instant classic. Adam Gilchrist strutted out and 'squashed ' the Sri Lankan attack into submission. He scored a typically brutal 149 , the highest score in a World Cup final helping Australia win their fourth title. There was , however , a brief moment after he had gotten to his century that stayed etched in memory. After getting to the three-figure mark , Gilchrist waved and repeatedly pointed towards his left glove , a rather strange celebration for a century in a World Cup final. Or so , one thought . At the post-match conference , Gilchrist explained the method behind his manic batting and his celebration. He said he 'd slipped in a squash ball inside his left glove so that his bottom hand would n't be too dominant. He credited this idea to little known Bob Meuleman , his batting coach , who had suggested using a foreign object inside his glove to improve his grip. Gilchrist 's revelation instantly sparked heated debates about the legality of the act. A few days later , an MCC official confirmed , " It is no different to wearing inners under your gloves " . And that was that . Adam Gilchrist had scored 14 ODI hundreds before that game against Sri Lanka , none of them half as significant as his fifteenth. The occasion was special , the occasion was important and Gilchrist had a ball . © Cricbuzz
