Waqar Younis Keen to Help Pakistan Shed 'Unpredictable ' Tag Waqar Younis Keen to Help Pakistan Shed 'Unpredictable ' Tag Pakistan routed New Zealand by 147 runs -- their second biggest win over the rivals -- in the third day-night international in Sharjah on Sunday. That came two days after Pakistan went down by four wickets in an unimpressive show in the second match , also played in Sharjah . Last updated on Monday , 15 December , 2014 18 : 39 IST Total Shares Pakistan team celebrate during 3rd ODI vs New Zealand . © AFP Sharjah : Coach Waqar Younis wants to remove the 'unpredictable ' image linked to his Pakistan side ahead of this week 's final two one day internationals against New Zealand . Pakistan routed New Zealand by 147 runs -- their second biggest win over the rivals -- in the third day-night international in Sharjah on Sunday . That came two days after Pakistan went down by four wickets in an unimpressive show in the second match , also played in Sharjah . With Pakistan leading the five-match series 2-1 , Waqar wants consistency in the final two matches in Abu Dhabi on Wednesday and Friday . " We have to remove that tag , " said Waqar on Monday . " Saying that it 's ( lack of consistency ) no more a problem would be wrong but the effort is to develop a good team which can do well abroad. " Pakistan posted 364-7 in 50 overs -- their highest total against New Zealand in all one-day cricket -- before dismissing their rivals for 217 in 38.2 overs . Waqar stressed he wants to develop a good team . " We have not become world beaters by winning the match big , there is plenty to work and if we win consistently our performance should be so good so that even if we lose we are not hurt , " said Waqar , a former Pakistan captain . The Pakistan coach described skipper Misbah-ul Haq 's hamstring injury which ruled him out of the last three games as a setback . " We wanted him to be fit and play in this series but I hope he will be back in three weeks and we have started working on that , " he added . All-rounder Shahid Afridi replaced Misbah as skipper for the remaining games and celebrated the occasion with a fiery 26-ball 55 besides taking three wickets on Sunday . " When you win , everything looks good and Afridi led the team well but saying it ( the win ) came because of change in captaincy would be unfair , " said Waqar . Waqar said the team management was trying to overcome the loss of Mohammad Hafeez as bowler after his suspension last week for illegal action . " We are trying to develop players who can bowl as well as bat so we will also work on ( Ahmed ) Shehzad and try to get the best out of him as a bowler , we are trying to get Hafeez cleared before the World Cup , so we have all our resources in the mega event , " said Waqar . Left-handed batsman Haris Sohail filled in as left-arm spinner , taking three wickets each in the last two matches . Waqar hoped senior batsman Younis Khan will show form . " I think Younis did well in the last match , " said Waqar of Younis who made 35 on Sunday . " We are looking for someone around whom others can bat , he has an amazing record in Tests and technique but I feel he needs runs to get his confidence back in one-day and I am sure it 's just round the corner. " Story first published on : Monday , 15 December 2014 17 : 30 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
