Write off Asian teams at your peril : Geoff Marsh Adelaide , Fri , Feb 06 2015 by Santosh Suri Last updated on Friday , 06 February , 2015 , 04 : 54 AM India won the Champion of Champions tournament in Australia in 1985 Pakistan won the 1992 edition of the World Cup which was held in Australia/New Zealand Marsh : One spark is all that is required to ignite MS Dhoni 's team © Getty The top three Asian teams , India , Pakistan and Sri Lanka , have collectively won four of the 10 World Cups. And when the only time the event was held in the Australian continent way back in 1992 , it was Pakistan who overcame all odds to emerge champions . Barring the first two editions , in which the West Indies were the overwhelming favourites and won the first two titles , the battle more or less had been between the Asian teams and the rest. Former Australian opening batsman Geoff Marsh , who was the scourge of the Asian teams in 1980s , is warning against writing them off. He feels that despite starting at a disadvantage , these teams can not be taken lightly . " Who can forget India 's triumph in the 1985 Champion of Champions tournament ? And of course the biggest event held here , the 1992 World Cup , where Pakistan were the unexpected champions. So please discount the three Asian teams at your peril , " Marsh said at an event organized at the Adelaide Oval to officially launch the opening of the media centre for the World Cup . Going by the trends of the recent matches played in Australia and New Zealand , one would not rate the Asian teams ' chances very highly. The Indian team has not won a single match on its current Australian tour. Their only positive has been the two drawn Test matches. Barring that , nothing has gone right for the injury-ridden team . Sri Lanka were at least able to win two of their seven ODIs against New Zealand last month and have looked the most assured. With an experienced batting line-up , with players of the calibre of Kumar Sangakkara , Mahela Jayawardene , Tillakaratne Dilshan and Angelo Mathews , the team has the weapons to tackle tough Australian conditions . Pakistan are an enigmatic team , brilliant one day and below-par the next. Their hopes will depend on which side turns up on the day of the match. But they are a capable team and can not be taken lightly. They have the example to look upto - the triumphant team of 1992 . The Imran Khan-led side was on the verge of missing out on the knockouts , but their match against England was washed out and it gave them a fresh lease on life. The team fought back hard and went all the way to win . " I have a high regard for the Asian teams. They play with such flair. I know India are under pressure after being winless on the tour , but they require just one spark to ignite the team under MS Dhoni , " Marsh said . " Pakistan too are unpredictable , but you have to be wary of them. So are Sri Lanka. Many have plumbed for them as one of the likely teams in the semifinals. I hope they live up to the expectations , but I am not going to write off India at any stage. They are capable of turning a leaf and a lot will depend on how well they get off in their first two matches against Pakistan and South Africa , " Marsh added . © TNN
