Zaheer confident of India playing World Cup semis New Delhi , Fri , Feb 06 2015 Last updated on Friday , 06 February , 2015 , 01 : 59 PM Zaheer feels India 's performance in the recently-concluded tri-series in Australia will not affect the psyche of the players heading into the 2015 World Cup . Zaheer tipped Virat Kohli and Rohit Sharma as players who India would rely on during the course of the competition . Zaheer advised India 's team management to open the bowling with Mohammed Shami. © AFP Zaheer Khan , the Indian fast bowler , feels India 's performance in the recently-concluded tri-series in Australia where they failed to win a single match , will not affect the psyche of the players heading into the 2015 World Cup. India open their World Cup title defence against Pakistan on February 15 , which will be preceded by two warm-up games against Australia and Afghanistan . In an interview with PTI Bhasha , Zaheer said India could make the last four of the competition. " ( The ) World Cup is a new tournament and I do n't think India 's performance in tri-series will affect them. They have also got a long break after that and if you see the format also , I am sure India will play the semi-finals , " Zaheer was quoted as saying . " The Indian team had a long Australia tour and played at almost every venue. This can work to their advantage. " Zaheer , who has been nursing injuries as a result of which he had to miss out on the Indian domestic season , tipped Virat Kohli and Rohit Sharma as players who India would rely on during the course of the competition . " Rohit and Virat 's form will be crucial to India 's World Cup chances , " he said. " Rohit will be opening the innings with Virat coming at either Nos 3 or 4 depending on the match situation. Both have the ability to bat through the innings or even play the anchor , a role necessary in such a tournament. " Along with India , Zaheer said hosts Australia and New Zealand along with South Africa have the ability to last the distance as the " World Cup is a long tournament and injuries play a crucial role " , but equally important is to have a " settled team and gain momentum at the right time " , " Injuries are part and parcel of the game but you have to find the right combination , " he said. " It 's not about bowling only. Cricket is a team game and batsmen also have to give their best. I am hopeful that India will deliver an all-round performance. " Zaheer assessed India had their bowling combination wrong during the tri-series , and suggested opening the bowling with Mohammed Shami. " If you ask my suggestion , they should give the new ball to Shami , who will set the tone. The first spell will be very crucial. I will only say that taking wickets is the only key to restrict run-rates. " He said the new rules of using two new balls and involving fielding restrictions applied to all and teams must have become used to them. " We have been playing with the new rules for a while now. As far as death overs are concerned , the bowlers must think clearly. I am sure they will do well , " he said of the Indian pacers . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
