Big hitters to watch out for Sat , Feb 07 2015 by Prateek Srivastava Last updated on Saturday , 07 February , 2015 , 08 : 54 AM The implementation of the new ODI rules - two new balls from either end and fewer fielders in the outfield - has already seen the record of fastest century broken twice in the last 13 months. If that is any indication , the 2015 ICC World Cup , comprising 49 matches in all , could see a few more records go to pieces. Cricbuzz draws up a list of big hitters who could do so in Australia and New Zealand . 1. Glenn Maxwell © Getty The Australian batsman showcased his power-hitting in the 2014 Indian Premier League where he scored 552 runs at an awe-inspiring strike rate of 187.75 with the help of 36 sixes across 16 matches. While Kevin Petersen is credited with bringing the switch hit into the public eye , there is no doubt it 's Maxwell who has it taken to another level. His no-holds-barred approach has made him a much-feared opponent. Even though Maxwell has failed to transfer his IPL batting into international cricket , it has to be said that he is a big threat to bowlers and that the World Cup could be his stage to run amok . 2. Corey Anderson © Getty The New Zealand allrounder shocked the cricket world on January 1 , 2014 by breaking Shahid Afridi 's 17-year record of the fastest century in ODI history. Anderson took 36 balls against West Indies to outdo Afridi , who took 37 against Sri Lanka in 1996. The left-hander then further strengthened his reputation by scoring 95 not out off 44 balls to help Mumbai Indians reach the 2014 IPL play-offs. In light of New Zealand 's small stadiums , Anderson appears a scary prospect . 3. AB de Villiers © Getty If you thought Corey Anderson 's feat was beyond imagination , de Villiers further raised the bar when he smashed a surreal 31-ball hundred against West Indies last month. South Africa 's ODI captain eventually fell for a 44-ball 149 after hitting a record-equalling 16 sixes. Despite having been mostly favourites in the past , South Africa 's best performances came in 1992 , 1999 and 2007 when they reached the semis. Looking at de Villiers ' form , this edition may turn out to be the end of their long wait for the World Cup trophy . 4. MS Dhoni © Getty The India captain has not scored much of late but he is a big-tournament player. Who could forget his match-winning 91 not out against Sri Lanka in the 2011 World Cup final ? The fact that he is playing his last World Cup is reason enough for Dhoni to be motivated. He has the knack of pulling off unexpected results , so do n't be surprised if he once again succeeds in doing that - even though not many are willing to put their money on his team. Dhoni remains one of the best finishers in the game . 5. Chris Gayle © Getty In form or out of form , you ca n't discount the big West Indian. The last year or so has n't been very fruitful for Gayle on account of injuries but his recent match-winning scores of 77 and 90 in T20Is against South Africa have brought him back into reckoning. The pitches in Australia and New Zealand have true bounce and that makes him a dangerous customer. West Indies would hope that Gayle fires at the top because that 's their only chance to put up a fight . 6. Brendon McCullum © Getty McCullum has arguably become New Zealand 's most important player in the last couple of years. His talent lies in the fact that he could shift gears. McCullum is capable of dropping or weighing anchor according to the situation and that makes him one of the most dangerous limited-overs batsmen in the world. Due to the home advantage factor , this edition is New Zealand 's best chance in years to have a go at the title but for that dream to come true , the Black Caps captain has to be at his best . 7. Thisara Perera © Getty The Sri Lankan allrounder has a consistency problem but on his day he can tear apart any bowling unit. Perera is heading into the World Cup in poor form after scores of 0 , 5 , 0 , 2 and 20 in the recent ODI series against New Zealand , but he remains a vital cog in the team 's plans. Sri Lanka are blessed to have two world-class big-hitting allrounders in him and Angelo Mathews . 8. Eoin Morgan © Getty The England captain 's ODI ton against Australia in the Carlton Mid Tri-Series recently highlighted his character a great deal. Out of England 's 234 , 121 came off the bat of the left-hander. The additional responsibility of captaincy seems to be working for him. While England 's chances of a good show look very weak , no team can take them lightly thanks to the presence of Morgan . © Cricbuzz
