WC Countdown # 6 : Lasith Malinga 's devastating four in four Sat , Feb 07 2015 by Siddharth Vishwanathan Last updated on Saturday , 07 February , 2015 , 09 : 07 AM © Getty The super-eight clash between South Africa and Sri Lanka during the 2007 World Cup in Providence was firmly in South Africa 's grasp. Chasing 210 for victory , they were 206/5 in the 45th over with victory just a stroke away. However , Lasith Malinga produced an astonishing display of death bowling which almost gave Sri Lanka victory. Malinga 's unprecedented feat of four wickets in four balls established his credentials on the big stage and his mantra of bowling fast , straight and in the yorker length became the blueprint for bowling at the death in limited overs . In his first spell , Malinga had struggled for penetration and he finished with figures of 7-0-43-0. He was brought back in the 45th over and in the first four balls , he was hit for a boundary and a couple by Shaun Pollock. With just four needed , the game seemed dead and buried. Malinga changed it dramatically. In the fifth ball , he bowled a slower delivery that landed on a fuller length. Pollock played inside the line of the delivery and the ball crashed into leg stump. In the next ball , Malinga bowled yet another full , slow ball outside off and Andrew Hall scooped it straight to cover. At 206/7 , some nerves were starting to show and there was anticipation in the air . Chaminda Vaas conceded just one run in the 47th over , Malinga bowled a full and fast delivery outside off that lured Jacques Kallis , who was batting on 86 , into a loose drive. He edged it to the keeper and Malinga became the fifth bowler to take a hat-trick in the World Cups. He went one step better and cleaned up Makhaya Ntini with a fast yorker on middle stump to take four wickets in four balls. At 207/9 , the advantage was with Sri Lanka. His next ball to Charl Langeveldt just missed the off stump . Vaas bowled a maiden in the 48th over and Malinga got one last chance to take the last wicket. However , Robin Peterson edged the second ball to third man and South Africa achieved victory by one wicket with 10 balls to spare. After the end of the match , Malinga said , " I am happy that I took a hat-trick. The old ball was reversing and I tried to get five in a row but unfortunately did n't get it. We are a team that fights till the end. " © Cricbuzz
