Rohit Sharma : Keen to make it count Adelaide , Sat , Feb 07 2015 Last updated on Saturday , 07 February , 2015 , 10 : 51 AM Rohit Sharma is fit to feature in the World Cup warm-ups Ishant Sharma is likely to be replaced by Mohit Sharma in the World Cup squad Rohit Sharma remains optimistic of a strong showing in the World Cup © Getty Rohit Sharma is buoyed at the prospect of representing India in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 and appeared confident ahead of India 's warm-up game against Australia at the Adelaide Oval. The 27-year old was not part of India 's successful 2011 campaign but remains optimistic of a strong showing in the quadrennial event . " Once you wear the India jersey , it is motivation enough to go and perform on the field. If you are not motivated enough wearing the India shirt , then you are just doing injustice to your responsibilities , " Sharma said. " I missed out on the last World Cup in India and am keen to make this one count. ( I want to ) make it big without putting too much pressure on myself. " India have endured a below-average build up to the World Cup , ending the Carlton Mid Tri-series without a win. That however , will not have a bearing on the team 's performance when they take the field against Pakistan in their World Cup , according to Rohit. He insisted that the team remains unfazed by the magnitude of an India-Pakistan clash and will instead look to execute the 'process'. " It will be a big game against Pakistan , but we need to concentrate more on the process rather than taking it as an India-Pakistan game. The result will take care of itself if we concentrate on the process and we know what we need to do to be at our best , " Rohit said . The Mumbai batsman scored a stroke-filled 138 against Australia in India 's opening match of the tri-series before getting sidelined by a hamstring injury but he said he was now good to go. " I had issues with my hamstring , but I was working on it in the last few days with the team 's support staff. I will be playing against Australia tomorrow in the warm-up game. It will be my first World Cup experience and I 'm excited , " he said . Meanwhile , reports have emerged that paceman Ishant Sharma is unlikely to feature in the World Cup. The fast bowler , who last featured in the Boxing Day Test in Melbourne , did n't bowl during the team 's practice session on Saturday and is widely expected to be replaced by Mohit Sharma. However , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , recovering from his ankle injury , bowled in the nets without any obvious discomfort . India play two warm-up games , against Australia ( Feb 8th ) and Afghanistan ( Feb 11th ) , before opening the title defense with the marquee clash against Pakistan in Adelaide on February 15th . © Cricbuzz
