Ishant Sharma ruled out of World Cup ; Mohit Sharma to replace him Sat , Feb 07 2015 Last updated on Sunday , 08 February , 2015 , 03 : 31 AM Ishant Sharma has been ruled out of the World Cup having failed to recover from a knee injury . Mohit Sharma will take Ishant 's place in the 15-man squad for the quadrennial event . Ishant Sharma , Rohit , Bhuvneshwar and Jadeja went through rigorous fitness drills and Ishant was the only player found unfit . Ishant Sharma has been ruled out of the World Cup squad. © Getty India fast bowler Ishant Sharma has been ruled out of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 having failed to recover from a knee injury. Mohit Sharma will take Ishant 's place in the 15-man squad for the quadrennial event . The injured quartet of Ishant , Rohit Sharma , Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Ravindra Jadeja went through rigorous fitness drills and the 26-year-old paceman was the only player found unfit. Ishant last played for India in the Boxing Day Test in Melbourne . " It 's confirmed that Ishant has been ruled out and will not recover in time to play the World Cup. As per regulations , we had Mohit Sharma as stand-by and he will be inducted into the World Cup squad. Ishant is likely to return home , " a top BCCI source told PTI . " Rohit Sharma ( hamstring ) , Bhuvneshwar Kumar ( ankle ) and Ravindra Jadeja ( shoulder ) have passed the fitness test. However to confirm their match fitness , the trio will need to go through the grind during the warm-up games against Australia and Afghanistan. The team management will need to check as to how Jadeja shapes up while throwing from the deep. That they ( Rohit and Bhuvneshwar ) have reported fit is the reason that they were presented for the Open Media Session , " the source added . BCCI is yet to issue a official statement on Ishant 's withdrawal from the team and his replacement . Following the Test series , Ishant was not in the playing XI for the first two ODIs in the tri-series. He resumed training and was picked in the Australia Day clash in Sydney but the match was rained out and Ishant was unable to bowl. Subsequently , he was dropped for the Perth match against England. Mohit Sharma , who played in the match at Perth , was among the few who did well , taking two wickets for 36 runs . India will play their first warm-up game against Australia on February 08 , which will be followed by a warm-up clash against Afghanistan. India will open their World Cup campaign against Pakistan in Adelaide on February 15 . © Cricbuzz
