Injured Hafeez ruled out of World Cup Sun , Feb 08 2015 Last updated on Sunday , 08 February , 2015 , 01 : 08 PM Hafeez suffered an injury to his leg during the second ODI against New Zealand in Napier . The injury also forced him to miss the official bowling action test . The ICC approved Nasir Jamshed as his replacement . Mohammad Hafeez has been ruled out of the World Cup with a leg injury. © Getty In yet another blow to Pakistan , opener Mohammad Hafeez on Sunday was ruled out of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 after suffering an injury to his leg. Hafeez has been replaced by opening batsman Nasir Jamshed in the Pakistan squad . The ICC confirmed that its event technical committee , comprising of Geoff Allardice , Campbell Jamieson , John Harnden , Gavin Larsen , Russel Arnold and Sanjay Manjrekar had approved Jamshed as Hafeez 's replacement. The 25-year-old left-hander has played 45 ODIs for Pakistan in which he has scored 1,413 runs with three centuries and eight half-centuries. His last ODI was against New Zealand in Abu Dhabi in December 2014 . The 34-year-old Hafeez suffered the injury during the second one-day international against New Zealand in Napier last week and has been advised three weeks ' rest. " Hafeez has been ruled out of the World Cup and will return home on the first available flight and in his place Nasir Jamshed has been summoned , " a Pakistan Cricket Board ( PCB ) spokesman told AFP. Incidentally , the injury also forced Pakistan to reschedule Hafeez 's official action test , originally scheduled for February 6 . Hafeez 's injury is the fourth major blow for Pakistan before the 14-team World Cup which starts in Australia and New Zealand on February 14. Paceman Umar Gul was not selected because of a knee injury in January , while another fast bowler Junaid Khan had to be withdrawn from the 15-man squad after he failed to recover from a leg injury. Saeed Ajmal , whose bowling action was cleared by ICC on Saturday , is another key absentee in Pakistan 's squad . Pakistan begin their World Cup with a clash against arch-rivals India in Adelaide on February 15 and are in Pool B along with West Indies , South Africa , Zimbabwe and qualifiers Ireland and the UAE . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
