Mathews confident after X-factor Malinga 's return Christchurch , Sun , Feb 08 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Sunday , 08 February , 2015 , 08 : 51 AM Malinga has not played an ODI since August after undergoing surgery on his left ankle but Mathews was confident of him being ready for the team 's first match. © AFP Angelo Mathews , Sri Lanka 's captain , has backed his 'X-factor ' Lasith Malinga to come good in the 2015 ICC World Cup even though the bowler himself has admitted to feeling pain when he bowls in the nets. Ahead of Sri Lanka 's warm-up game against South Africa at Hagley Oval on Monday , Mathews rued the loss of pace bowler Dhammika Prasad with a fractured hand sustained during training on Saturday but was confident in having Malinga up and running come February 14 when Sri Lanka face hosts New Zealand . " It 's a big blow , unfortunate news , " he said , " but Malinga coming back is a great advantage for us. Lasith is an X-factor. We all know he 's a great death bowler and swings it with the new ball as well. He 's got so many variations under his sleeve. It 's a great plus point to have him in the team , he 's our premier fast bowler. With the amount of experience he has , almost 200 games now , performing exceptionally well for us over the past five or six years , to have him back in is great news. " Malinga , 32 , has not played an ODI since August after undergoing surgery on his left ankle but Mathews was confident of him being ready for the team 's first match. " He 's progressed really well and he 's back to his full fitness , it 's just the match practice that he needs , " he said. " He 's bowling at 100 per cent , so we hope he 'll be 100 per cent fit for the games. " " Probably , but you ca n't write off the rest of the bowlers that we have , " said Mathews when asked whether the scoreline against New Zealand could have ended differently had Malinga featured in the seven-ODI series. " We 've got fairly experienced bowlers , you ca n't write them off. In a one-off game , the others can also come to the party. We all expect Lasith to do well , but I 'm pretty sure with the amount of talent we 've got in our side , we know anyone can do the job for us. " As for Sri Lanka 's chances at the 2015 edition , after ending up losing finalists in the previous two tournaments , Mathews said : " We 're happy to walk into the World Cup as underdogs , no one really expects us to win. We 've got loads of experience , we 've got Mahela [ Jayawardene ] who 's playing his fifth World Cup. We 've got Kumar [ Sangakkara ] , [ Tillakaratne ] Dilshan , Lasith , [ Nuwan ] Kulasekera have played World Cups before. That adds a lot to the team ; that experience on the big stage definitely helps. " © Cricbuzz
