Mon , Feb 09 2015 Last updated on Monday , 09 February , 2015 , 05 : 47 AM With the advent of power hitting in the modern ODI game , batsmen around the world have become far too dynamic in alternating between attack and defense. The strategies , however , are fairly clear as the innings heads to the death overs - Hit everything out of your sight. Death overs have become pivotal to determine which way a game swings. The increase in the number of power hitters has subsequently increased the value of a bowler capable of drying up runs in the final overs. Death bowlers , one of the most sought after breed of bowlers , have countered the batting style innovations with a few of their own - the back of the hand slower ball , slower ball bouncers etc . Here 's a list of death over specialists whose fortunes will be mirrored by their teams in the World Cup : 1. Lasith Malinga © Getty Lasith Malinga is , by far , the best death bowler in the limited over format. His fast , slingy action coupled with an ability to bowl yorkers at will make it impossible for a batsman to get him away. The yorker , however , is not Malinga 's only weapon. He uses the slower ball to great effect in the business end of an ODI innings , hoodwinking the batsmen into playing early. While Malinga enters the 2015 World Cup a tad undercooked , having suffered a lengthy injury layoff , there is no questioning 'Slinga 's ' ability to bowl at the most important stage of an ODI innings . 2. Mitchell Starc © Getty In more ways than one , Mitchell Starc is a throwback to the nineties when fast bowling was essentially about bowling 'fast'. At a time when batsmen enjoy using the extra pace , Starc gives it to them and yet comes up trumps. Not one to rely on performing tricks with the fingers , Starc uses reverse swinging thunderbolts to unsettle the batsmen. Starc is also good with the angles. He can use the natural left-armer 's angle to take the ball away from the right-hander and also come around to target the stumps. The 25-year old has enjoyed a fruitful build up to the mega event and his performances in the recently concluded tri-series , especially at the death , make him a bowler to watch out for . 3. James Faulkner © Getty 'Finisher ' James Faulkner has earned a name for himself for constantly coming to the fore in the final overs of an ODI innings. While his exploits with the bat in chases have hogged the limelight , he remains an extremely competent death bowler. Faulkner has forged an excellent partnership with Mitchell Starc bowling at the death. While , Starc is about pace and angle , Faulkner is about trickery and change of pace. The recent ODI against England in Hobart , when England collapsed from being 240/2 in the 40th to get reduced to 303 , bears testimony to Faulkner 's death bowling skills. Faulkner uses the back of the hand slower ball to great effect to deceive the batsmen. He is equally adept at varying the lengths to keep the batsmen guessing. Faulkner remains a vital cog in Australia 's plans and the think-tank would be hopeful of him making a rapid recovery from his injury . 4. Dale Steyn © Getty South Africa are spoilt for choice when it comes to using speedsters in the last quarter of the innings. However , with the opposition batsmen going hammer and tongs , to look around and find Dale Steyn must be AB de Villiers ' greatest luxury. Steyn is equally capable of bowling at the death as he is with bowling with the new ball. Virat Kohli once claimed that he was looking to finish a game off two overs in advance mindful of the fact that Steyn would bowl at the death. While Steyn relies on bowling fuller lengths to keep the batsman glued to the crease , he also has at his disposal , an excellent short delivery to surprise the batsmen. Steyn famously orchestrated a two-run win over New Zealand in the World T20 in 2014 despite the Kiwis requiring only seven off the final over. Come the World Cup , teams will once again be mindful of the 'Steyn gun ' in the death overs . 5. Mohammad Irfan © Getty In the absence of the experienced Umar Gul and Junaid Khan , the onus on restricting the runs at the death falls squarely on the broad shoulders of the towering Mohammad Irfan. Pakistan skipper Misbah-ul-Haq has constantly bemoaned his side 's inability to contain the runs in the final overs and the 32-year old Irfan could well be the answer to his woes. In an ODI versus New Zealand at Napier , even as the rest of Pakistan 's bowling got picked off at over eight runs an over , Irfan held one end together and conceded just 50 in his 10 while picking up two overs. Irfan uses his great height to generate awkward bounce from a good length. Generally around the 140kmph mark , he can also bowl the quick yorker to get the unsuspecting lower-order batsmen out bowled . 6. Tim Southee © Getty New Zealand are blessed with an extremely talented bunch of fast bowlers at the World Cup. With 116 wickets in 85 ODIs , Tim Southee has emerged as one of the leaders of the attack. He started off being largely a new ball bowler , getting the natural shape away from the right-hander. However , he has evolved into a very reliable bowler at the end of an ODI innings. Southee 's exploits at death bowling first came to the fore during the World T20 in 2012 in Sri Lanka. He possesses a potent yorker and uses it regularly to keep the batsman tied down at one end. Southee has also formed an excellent partnership with Mitchell McClenaghan and the duo have largely been responsible for the team 's string of series wins in ODI cricket . 7. Mohammad Shami © Getty A large part of India 's successful World Cup campaign in 2011 was attributed to Zaheer Khan 's performances in the batting powerplay and at the death. Heading into their defense of the title , India 's bowling has been subject to large scale criticism. Death bowling especially remains a major concern. Mohammad Shami , despite his lukewarm buildup to the mega event , has the propensity to bowl full and straight and do so at a brisk pace. Shami is also a well-known exponent of the reverse swing and under favourable conditions could be MS Dhoni 's go-to man in the latter stages of the innings . © Cricbuzz
