South Africa pip Sri Lanka on frigid day Christchurch , Mon , Feb 09 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Wednesday , 11 February , 2015 , 04 : 46 AM Tillakaratne Dilshan scored a century off 82 balls . Quinton de Kock scored an aggressive 66 to guide South Africa to victory . Quinton de Kock 's 66 off 55 balls helped South Africa gain victory over Sri Lanka in their first warm-up game at Christchurch. © AFP Sri Lanka 's struggles in New Zealand were extended with a five-wicket loss to South Africa in the two teams ' first ICC World Cup warm-up match on a cold and windy Monday at the Hagley Oval , but the margin of defeat was closer to the line of thinking that Angelo Mathews , Mahela Jayawardene and Kumar Sangakkara spoke of coming into the fixture . Yes , Sri Lanka again failed to close out a match they should have won after South Africa 's target was reduced by the Duckworth/Lewis method to 224 in 30 overs , but they can take confidence from Tillakaratne Dilshan 's third century of the tour , a fine outing from Rangana Herath and a positive return to competitive cricket from Lasith Malinga - a bowler that Mathews , Jayawardene and Sangakkara identified as crucial to the team 's chances in the World Cup . On a day in which temperatures dropped to 12 degrees and the blustery wind threatened to blow the top off the media centre at the Hagley Oval , Dilshan provided Sri Lanka the platform for a big total and Mathews ' 49-ball 58 built on that until rain curtailed the innings at 279 for 7 in 44.4 overs. Coming off a dominant ODI series against New Zealand , in which he scored 397 runs in six innings , Dilshan hooked and pulled himself to a hundred off 82 balls - moving from 64 to three figures in just 13 balls - and Mathews , in his first game in three weeks , scored his first limited-overs fifty in over two months to ensure Dilshan 's effort was not wasted . After stand-in captain Amla opted to field , Dilshan led two fifty-plus partnerships for the second and third wickets after Lahiru Thirimanne edged Vernon Philander to Quinton de Kock in the second over. From 1 for 1 , Dilshan and Kumar Sangakkara steadily defied South Africa 's five pace bowlers with a partnership of 76 at a decent 4.70 runs per over . As the sun made a welcome appearance four overs into the match , so too did Dilshan 's timing start to improve ; he drove Dale Steyn for boundaries along the grass through the covers and over them , both times using his feet to come down the track. Sangakkara was more watchful , only collecting aggressive boundaries in the 11th over when he danced out and sliced Kyle Abbott over cover-point and drove Wayne Parnell for a first-ball four in the 15th over . Spin made an appearance after 17 overs with Imran Tahir bowling with the breeze as dark clouds started to waft over the deep midwicket boundary , forcing several of the security personnel stationed around the white picket fence to grab their neon windbreakers. With his sixth ball , Tahir had Sangakkara ( 31 ) mistiming a drive straight to Amla at mid-off . Dimuth Karunaratne , owning an ODI batting average of 15.30 and who batted at Nos 1 , 6 and 9 against New Zealand recently , came in at fourth spot and held up one and while Dilshan switched gears. Dilshan 's seventh boundary , a hooked four off Parnell , took him to his half-century in 60 balls and then he clattered Farhaan Behardien for four fours in an over and tucked into a wayward Morne Morkel in his second spell. A tapped single took Dilshan to his hundred , but off his next ball faced he became Kyle Abbott 's first success of the day. A change of ends for Tahir prompted Mathews to swing his arms , and after a short rain delay he reached his fifty off 42 balls with a paddled four off the legspinner . Chasing a revised target of 224 in 30 overs , under grey skies and with the wind howling across the picturesque little ground , Amla and Quinton de Kock rattled away without much fuss. In his first competitive match in nearly five months , Malinga was given the new ball and bowled a decent opening spell of 3-0-16-0 , but any control he and Suranga Lakmal imposed quickly evaporated once Thisara Perera came on. His first over went for ten with de Kock collecting two fours , and in his second the left-hand opener peppered the straight and deep point ropes with well-timed drives. Twenty-five runs from two overs of Pereras ordinary medium pace took South Africa to 67 without loss after ten . De Kock then turned his aggression towards offspinner Sachithra Senanayake , hitting him for two sixes and a four. He was 66 off 54 balls when rain interrupted play again. Amla also swatted Senanayake over the ropes during his typically easy-on-the-eye innings of 45 from 37 balls. Soon after play resumed , with South Africa 's target rejigged to 188 in 28 overs , Rangana Herath removed both set batsmen in the same over. The wicket of JP Duminy for 17 , stumped off Herath , did not deter South Africa from their chase . A smart catch by Nuwan Kulasekara at long-on gave Malinga a wicket in his second spell , but Riley Roussow ( 16 * ) and Philander ( 13 * ) kept their heads to seal victory with three balls remaining . Brief scores : South Africa 188/5 in 24.3 overs ( Quinton de Kock 66 , Hashim Amla 46 , Rangana Herath 3/22 ) beat Sri Lanka 279 for 7 in 44.4 overs ( Tillakaratne Dilshan 100 , Angelo Mathews 58 , Kyle Abbott 3/37 ) by five wickets . © Cricbuzz Tags
