WC Countdown # 4 : Gibbs drops the World Cup Mon , Feb 09 2015 Last updated on Monday , 09 February , 2015 , 07 : 26 AM © Getty In 1999 at Headingley , Steve Waugh 's Australia faced off against Hansie Cronje 's South Africa in a high-stakes game. Australia desperately needed to win if they were to qualify for the semi-final. South Africa did most things right for a large part of the game. Especially , Hershcelle Gibbs. After Cronje won the toss and opted to bat , Gibbs anchored the innings with a fine 101 that helped South Africa rack up 271 . South Africa 's pacers soon reduced Australia to 48/3 in the chase. In walked skipper Steve Waugh to join Ricky Ponting. The duo started the repair work in earnest. Australia did not have much batting to come after Waugh and it was no doubt a very important partnership. One break is what South Africa sought to regain control of the game. Then it happened . Waugh , batting on 56 , whipped a Klusener delivery straight to mid wicket. Gibbs , stationed there , was one of South Africa 's best fielders and one of the best in the world at that time. Waugh looked gone for all money but Gibbs , in his eagerness to celebrate , tried to throw the ball up as soon as he got hold of it. Much to everyone 's shock , the ball slipped out of his hands and Waugh survived. He went on to score an unbeaten 120 that helped Australia finish ahead of South Africa in the Super Six stages. It meant little at that point but would go on to have significant impact later in the tournament . " You 've just dropped the World Cup , Hersh , " Waugh was famously quoted as saying to Gibbs immediately after the drop. In hindsight , the quote and the drop catch grew into one of the most iconic moments in World Cup history. South Africa were knocked out in the semi-final after a nerve-wracking tie against Waugh 's men. Australia 's win in the Super Six stages had helped them qualify ahead of South Africa . Thus Gibbs ' drop catch went on to become , arguably , the most famous drop catch in World Cup history . © Cricbuzz
