I put myself out there at the death : Abbott Christchurch , Mon , Feb 09 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Tuesday , 10 February , 2015 , 09 : 59 AM Kyle Abbott picked up 3/37 to restrict Sri Lanka 's progress in the warm-up game in Christchurch . Abbott said the main aim was to get the guys out in the middle . Kyle Abbott took 3 for 37 to put the skids on a Sri Lankan innings that was shaping up for something huge. © AFP In his first appearance in New Zealand , South African fast bowler Kyle Abbott took 3 for 37 to put the skids on a Sri Lankan innings that was shaping up for something huge on Monday afternoon at the Hagley Oval. First , Abbott removed centurion Tillakaratne Dilshan in the 28th over and then sent back the dangerous pair of Angelo Mathews and Thisara Perera in the 45th over before rain ended Sri Lanka 's innings. In the overall result , his strikes were pivotal to South Africa gaining a narrow pre-World Cup win with three balls remaining . Reflecting on his good work on what was an unfriendly day , played under dull grey skies and with a stinging wind lashing across the Hagley Oval , Abbott felt he had made a good start to his World Cup plan. " It 's obviously nice to get a run out today , " he said. " The weather was n't comfortable , especially in the first spells against the wind. It 's nice to get a few wickets under the belt and hopefully some good preparation going into the next few weeks. It 's important for us , especially the bowlers , to get running. We 're still pretty fresh off jet-lag and that , so it 's nice to get out and get competitive. It 's a different situation to the nets , so nice to bowl with a bit of confidence. " The conditions were challenging , needless to say , with the strong wind demanding more from the quicks than they would have faced at home against the West Indies recently. " Personally speaking , as a bowler , a lot of the times you find yourself trying to run in too hard because you feel like you 're not getting to the crease , which is probably the worst thing you can do , " said Abbott. " It 's pretty obvious you 're not going to bowl at 135-140 kph into the wind , it is going to slow you down. But what we emphasised out there today was that the guy bowling into the wind his overs were going to be even more important because they [ Sri Lanka ] were probably going to target the guy and hit downwind . " Going into games over the next couple of weeks where we are going to encounter that sort of stuff , the guy at the other end and bowling in partnerships now becomes even more crucial for us. Whoever 's coming downwind is maybe not happy going at four an over , maybe we 're looking at two of three an over to really put pressure on so that if we know it 's going to be released a bit from the other end , it evens itself out. " Abbott has gained a reputation of being a death-overs specialist - he performed this role well during last year 's Champions League Twenty20 - and asked about how he felt performing the role at the international level alongside Dale Steyn , his reply was precise . " I like that situation , " said Abbott. " I play with fire a bit. I put myself out there to take on those overs and sometimes it does n't go right , but the work that I put in off the field - I work on averages and stats - it falls in my favour. I put myself under pressure there , wanting those overs , but I enjoy it. I 've got my head around that I am going to concede runs , but when it comes off you look like a hero. So I 'm waiting for those moments. " Since this fixture carried unofficial status , South Africa were able to play 13 men , of which eight bowled. It was a situation they are not accustomed to , but it gave a chance to every bowler apart from left-arm spinner Aaron Phangiso to try himself out in challenging conditions . " As a whole , I thought we all ran in pretty well , " said Abbott. " Captain [ Hashim Amla ] had a few predicaments because he 's never had so many bowlers at his disposal , so it 's a bit difficult because you kind of know when youre going to bowl in a 50-over game .. where you 're going to structure your ten and what spells you 're going to bowl. It was nice to get some rhythm and I thought all the bowlers did incredibly well today , especially up the hill into quite a tough wind. I thought they all stuck by pretty well , disciplines were there , the only wides we conceded were above the head , which we were happy with bowling our bouncers. Considering the nets sessions we 've had over the last few days , things are looking pretty good. " Unlike their latest ODI assignment last month where they bullied West Indies to a 4-1 result , here South Africa were given a fight by Sri Lanka. Chasing a revised target of 224 from 30 overs , South Africa were well placed at 115 without loss in 15 overs before Rangana Herath removed Amla and Quinton de Kock in one over. After another rain interruption , the target became 188 from 28 overs and South Africa lost JP Duminy and David Miller in the space of six balls , and later Faf du Plessis in the 23rd over . This , according to Abbott , was a positive that got the team geared up even more for a victory despite the status of the game. " We came into these warm-up games with a fairly open mind , purely to get guys out into the middle. As soon as the game got to a tight stage , it was amazing how you felt the changing room sort of shift and although there was nothing counting on it , we were counting it ball by ball , run by run , which is nice , " he said. " To get some competitive cricket out of a warm-up game , which sometimes can drift and sometimes become quite boring , it was nice to have a warm-up game where there actually was a bit of competitiveness. The guys were behind every run and we wanted to win it as much as any other game. " © Cricbuzz
