Freshened-up Johnson ignores Morgan 's mind games Mon , Feb 09 2015 Last updated on Monday , 09 February , 2015 , 10 : 50 AM Mitchell Johnson played a big role in Australia 's tri-series win. © Getty Australia tearaway pacer Mitchell Johnson is unperturbed by England captain Eoin Morgan 's unflattering comments that came in the wake of the Carlton Mid Tri-Series final , and is ready to shine again when both teams start their ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 campaign at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on Saturday . Johnson , returning from a hamstring injury , took 3 for 27 to help his side lift the triangular trophy earlier this month but Morgan played down the bowler 's role in a press conference later. " Absolutely not , I do n't think he [ Mithcell Johnson ] swung it. I do n't know why we performed like this. Our biggest worry was the pitch but I do n't think we threatened that much today. We were poor , " Morgan had said after the match on February 1 . When reminded of Morgan 's comments on Monday , Johnson said he did n't think much of the England captain 's comments and was instead focussed on the game on Saturday. " I 'm not going to get into what he said I 'm a fast , aggressive bowler , " Johnson told reporters . " I think I 've proved throughout my career that I like to bowl short. Sometimes I swing the ball , sometimes I do n't. But my consistency has improved over the last few years and that 's what has helped me. I 've just got to keep playing my game and not get involved in mind games. " Johnson was also spot on in the first official warm-up between Australia and India at the Adelaide Oval taking 2 for 27 as his team took the contest by 106 runs on Sunday. " For me , personally , to have a month off not playing cricket and then to come out and perform was a really good sign for me , " Johnson said . " I feel like I 'm better the more I bowl. I 'm in a good situation now where I 've freshened up , I know where I 'm at with my game , it 's exciting. " The 33-year-old said he was excited at the prospect of playing in front of a sell-out crowd of around 90,000 at the MCG . " It 's nice to stand in front of a big crowd like that , it 's only been a handful of occasions for me to play in front of such big crowds , " Johnson said . " But I think it will be a different intensity to the crowd. It 's something I will take in when I get out there with the ball in my hand but then just really focus on what I need to do and that 's bowl well for Australia. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
