Afghans understand importance of being competitive Adelaide , Mon , Feb 09 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Wednesday , 11 February , 2015 , 04 : 43 AM Afghanistan are discovering the trappings of being sports celebrities in a nation that has been crying for peace . Fans appreciative of the fact that the players had managed to get the administration and the Taliban on one side in celebration of their success . The Afghans play India in a warm-up on Tuesday. © Cricbuzz From war-zone to the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , it has been a fascinating journey for Afghanistan 's bravehearts but as they prepare to play India in a warm-up game on Tuesday , they will have to banish sepia-toned images of gun battles and refugee camps , land mines and civil unrest and show the cricketing fraternity that they belong . And , with a whole nation coming together to track their performance some say with a break in hostilities they know they have to put their best foot forward in cricket 's biggest event. They are discovering the trappings of being sports celebrities in a nation that has been crying for peace. A sit-down dinner in Melbourne on Wednesday with locals of Afghan origin will only be a sample . Coach Andy Moles , an Englishman who has held the reins of the New Zealand team in the past , spent a good part of 10 minutes addressing the Afghan team at the Adelaide Oval nets on Monday , exhorting the players to train their minds on the present rather than think about a dreadful past or an uncertain future . Skipper Mohammad Nabi , who first picked up a cricket bat in a refugee camp at Peshawar in Pakistan and who has had the terrifying experience of having his father being held prisoner by goons in Jalalabad , has said the team would use the match against India to get in a position to get the better of Bangladesh in its opening Group A game in Canberra on February 18 . The energy and enthusiasm of the players was there for all to see , including a small bunch of Afghan-Australians who had driven from places like Melbourne and Sydney to be able to support the cricketers. They were appreciative of the fact that the players had managed to get the administration and the Taliban on one side in celebration of their success . Nadeem Azimi , who is among those organising the fund-raising event to support the education of orphans in Afghanistan , is delighted that the team agreed to make time in Melbourne. " I have known some of them from the time I was in a refugee camp outside Peshawar and it is an absolute honour for the community to host the stars on Wednesday , " he said . " For years , as fans , we had to choose our loyalties between India and Pakistan when the Cricket World Cup matches came around but , for the first time , we have our own team to back , " Shabbir , a gangling fan said , pride bursting through his chest as he watched Hamid Hassan , Dawlat Zadran and left-arm Shapoor Zadran clock impressive pace at the nets . The Afghan fans know India are looking for their maiden victory on this tour of Australia , even though it is only a warm-up game. " But it will be fun to watch our team take on India at the Oval on Tuesday. We will back our team to come good against Bangladesh in their quest to emulate Scotland from some of the earlier World Cup tournaments , " another fan said . They share a lovely bond with their supporters , signing autographs and posing for photographs across barricades under the eyes of security personnel but the Afghan cricketers know that their feats of the past few years when they lifted their team from fifth division of the ICC World Cricket League to the World Cup could be only footnotes and they will have to be competitive . © Cricbuzz Tags
