South Africa anxious to get going : Faf du Plessis Christchurch , Tue , Feb 10 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Wednesday , 11 February , 2015 , 04 : 41 AM Du Plessis believes the game against India will be a marquee one in the tournament South Africa have the best all-round side on paper South Africa play their first match against Zimbabwe on Feb 15 Faf du Plessis : As a team , we 're excited and ready © Getty Since the 1992 World Cup , their first major ICC event after being welcomed back into the sporting arena , South African teams have mostly been looked at as one of the favourites , if not the favourites heading into 50-over cricket 's bonanza event. Their teams have always been strong for World Cups , but unfortunately their tournaments have always ended with the 'C ' word being the overarching theme. Genuine South African cricket fans will likely wince at the mention of Karachi 1996 , St Lucia 2007 and Dhaka 2011 , shake their heads on memories of Sydney 1992 and curse when you say the words Birmingham and Lance Klusener in the same sentence . Just days before the 2015 ICC World Cup starts , talk of the South African cricket team led by AB de Villiers - is there a more exciting batsman today ? - again centres largely around how good this side is. A cursory glance down the probable XI and the level of talent is jaw-dropping. Quinton de Kock , 22 , is one of the most promising young wicketkeeper-batsman around ; Hashim Amla , who averages 56.41 in ODIs , is the epitome of consistency as an opener ; Faf du Plessis is a solid batsman , skilled at building innings and teeing off ; de Villiers is a freak , in the positive sense ; JP Duminy is an asset to any team in the middle order , grafter and demolisher in equal measure ; David Miller 's big-hitting is crucial ; Vernon Philander , Morne Morkel and Dale Steyn are the best fast bowling trio around ; Imran Tahir is a legspinner with limited-overs success and a vital cog in this team ; add the hulking Kyle Abbott , eager to play the death-overs role , and you get a proper ODI line-up . With Riley Roussow , Wayne Parnell , Farhaan Behardien and Aaron Phangiso forming the rest of the squad , you have possibly the most well-rounded group of cricketers in the World Cup . While you wo n't hear any of the South African players talk up their chances this year , the excitement is palpable. Amla , de Villiers , Behardien and Abbott have spoken about the focus on making the knock-outs and on Tuesday , du Plessis stressed on how anxious he is . " It 's taken so long. The buildup to the World Cup has been like a year now so as a team we 're very excited and ready , " he said after training at Hagley Oval. " We 've played a lot of cricket and want to get going. The important thing is that we 're doing really well at the moment and not seeing too much into these warm-up games. All our focus is to get up to that first game against Zimbabwe. " South Africa open their World Cup campaign against Zimbabwe in Hamilton on February 15 , followed by the game against India on the 22nd at the MCG. Fixtures against West Indies ( February 27 ) , Ireland ( March 3 ) , Pakistan ( March 7 ) , and UAE ( March 12 ) follow. In a format drafted up to get the best teams into the knock-out phase , it is foreseeable that the South Africa-India game in Melbourne decides who finishes first and second in Pool B. While not dismissing that notion , du Plessis felt that match would be one of the marquee ones in the tournament . " On paper , that should be the case , " he said , " but in World Cups we know that 's not the case. There are always upsets so expect one of the minnows to play a good game of cricket. On paper , India is quite a strong team , they 've done really well in ICC tournaments. West Indies we know are dangerous on their day and Pakistan are the same. We are looking forward to that game against India. It 's going to be a full house. We always enjoy the challenge of playing a really good side like India. " Du Plessis has succeeded against India in Test cricket , famously with a game-saving 134 from 309 balls in his first meeting with them in Johannesburg in December 2013 , and has taken two rapid fifties off their bowling in the only Twenty20 internationals played with them. In ODIs , he averages only 31.00 from five innings against India , with one fifty which came in 2011 , but with the amount of IPL cricket played with and against members of the Indian team he was not worried . " I enjoy playing against India , " he said. " I 've had some good performances in the past , and we play a lot of cricket with these guys in the IPL so we know what they 're all about. I think South Africans in general do very well in the IPL , so personally I 'm looking forward to playing against India because I can reflect on past performances. But on a big stage like the World Cup , you just want to put in a performance [ for your team ] to help get over the line. " On Monday , after South Africa narrowly beat Sri Lanka at Hagley Park in their first warm-up game , Abbott spoke of how when the run rate jacked up and wickets fell in a clump during a rejigged Duckworth/Lewis chase , the players in the dressing room were counting every ball . Du Plessis , who was the fifth and final wicket to fall with South Africa 21 runs from victory in the 23rd over of a 25-over innings , spoke of the importance of getting out of a jam with wickets in hand and to be put under a bit of pressure . " It 's nice to be able to take something from a warm-up game , " he said. " Intensity-wise you ca n't , because it 's not a one-day international , so it was nice to see [ Tillakaratne ] Dilshan get a hundred and put our bowlers under a bit of pressure so they can take something from it. With the batting , Hashim and Quinny [ de Kock ] getting a really good opening stand was good for us. They are really important for us as a batting unit. It 's nice to see Quinny , especially , after his injury to come back and play the way he did yesterday. We were presented with an opportunity to get across the line in a reasonably difficult situation and we did it , so there are few things we can take from yesterday. " © Cricbuzz Tags
