Innings report : Rohit Sharma 150 powers India to 364/5 Tue , Feb 10 2015 Last updated on Tuesday , 10 February , 2015 , 09 : 50 AM Rohit Sharma scored a wonderful 150 off 122 balls . Ajinkya Rahane scored back-to-back fifties . Suresh Raina and Rohit notched up 158 runs for the third wicket . Rohit Sharma 's 150 off 122 balls included 12 fours and seven sixes as India notched up 364/5. © AFP A blistering century from Rohit Sharma and aggressive fifties from Suresh Raina and Ajinkya Rahane helped India amass 364/5 in their second and final warm-up game against Afghanistan on a hot Tuesday afternoon in Adelaide . Following their 106-run loss to Australia in their first warm-up game on Sunday , it was vital for India 's batsmen to step up and get some runs under their belt. They won the toss and chose to bat but they did not get off to a good start. Shikhar Dhawan ( 4 ) , who showed some form by scoring 59 in the game against Australia , departed cheaply. Hamid Hassan found some inward movement as Dhawan looked to run it down to third man but the ball took the inside edge onto the back pad to hit the off stump. Virat Kohli ( 5 ) got off the mark with a boundary but Dawlat Zadran got a full ball to move away late and Kohli edged it to the keeper. With scores of 9,4,3 * ,8,18 in previous innings , Kohli 's struggles could not have come at a worse time. At 16/2 , Afghanistan were all over India and they were bowling with good discipline . However , Rohit Sharma got going two boundaries off Dawlat and he decided to counter-attack , along with Suresh Raina. In the ninth over of the innings , India seized the initiative by smashing 15 runs off Hassan 's fifth over and from that point on , both batsmen found the boundary at regular intervals . Both Raina and Rohit rotated the strike cleverly and both were making good progress. Rohit got to his fifty off 49 balls by glancing Mirwais Ashraf to the fine leg boundary while Raina also brought up his fifty off 55 balls by smashing Samiullah Shenwari over deep midwicket for a six. The partnership was looking ominous for Afghanistan and the bowlers had no clue. But , skipper Mohammad Nabi 's wonderful work in the field broke the 158-run when he ran out Raina for 75. The batsman nudged it to short midwicket and set off for a quick single but Nabi swooped in and underarm-flicked it at the non-striker 's end to catch Raina short . Rohit continued the aggression and he brought up his century off 94 balls by smashing Shapoor Zadran over deep square leg. On 103 , Rohit had a reprieve when Dawlat dropped a simple catch at deep midwicket off the bowling of Javed Ahmadi. Afghanistan 's fielding fell apart thereafter. Ajinkya Rahane had a moment of good fortune on four when wicketkeeper Afsar Zazai missed a simple run-out chance with the batsman stranded in the middle. On 21 , Rahane was at the receiving end of some more good fortune as there was doubt whether the keeper had cleanly collected an edge. In the interim , Afghanistan misfielded and gifted runs away to India regularly. India scored 48 runs and did not lose a single wicket in the batting Powerplay . Rohit brought up his 150 off 120 balls by smashing Mohammad Nabi for a six over long-on and he looked good to score yet another double ton. But , in his quest for aggression , he mistimed the lofted shot and holed out to Ashraf at long-off. Rahane , who was the top-scorer in the game against Australia with 66 , gave India the perfect finish towards the end by scoring yet another fifty off just 44 balls. Aftab Alam was given some harsh treatment by Rahane as he smashed him for three boundaries to help India finish on a high . Brief scores : India 364/5 ( Rohit Sharma 150 , Suresh Raina 75 , Ajinkya Rahane 88 * , Hamid Hassan 1/49 ) © Cricbuzz
