WC Countdown # 3 : When the chokers tag was born Tue , Feb 10 2015 by Ganesh Chandrasekaran Last updated on Tuesday , 10 February , 2015 , 11 : 05 AM One bit of momentary madness cost South Africa dear and the tag of 'chokers ' was born. © Getty South Africa 's World Cup sojourn has been littered with unfortunate ends. In 1999 , they looked to be the favourites to clinch the trophy during the group stages. Lance Klusener had been their talisman throughout the tournament and in the semi-final against Australia , it was he who looked set to take them through to their first World Cup final . Chasing 213 , South Africa 's middle order fought back from a Shane Warne-induced collapse to get closer to the target. Glenn McGrath 's 49th over yielded two wickets and left Klusener with Donald to get 9 off the final over. Damien Fleming came in and was promptly smacked for consecutive fours by Klusener. South Africa needed just 1 more from the next four balls. Klusener was on strike and had an experienced non-striker in Allan Donald . Should have been a cakewalk really. But pressure and high stakes bring out the strangest reactions in the best of sportspersons and create fascinating drama. The third ball of the over was hit straight to mid on. South Africa needed 1 from three with Klusener still on strike. The next bit of madness would go on to haunt the Proteas for years to come . Klusener hit the fourth ball straight down the ground and raced down for a single. Allan Donald was ball-watching and had his back to Klusener. Mark Waugh dived across and flicks the ball back to the bowler , Fleming , who rolls it down to the wicket-keeper. Donald was caught way short. Klusener realised the horror of it and kept running towards the pavilion even as a distraught Donald stared down at the pitch. A tie was all Australia needed to pip South Africa and reach the final because they had beaten South Africa in the earlier Super Six stage . Klusener - South Africa 's hero in 1999 and an ice-cool finisher , was ironically guilty of losing his nerve when it mattered the most. Donald had taken four wickets in the game and had a rather simple job at hand with the bat but he too failed . One bit of momentary madness cost South Africa dear and the tag of 'chokers ' was born. A tag that haunts them till the day . © Cricbuzz
