India continue to test fans ' patience Adelaide , Tue , Feb 10 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Wednesday , 11 February , 2015 , 04 : 37 AM Afghanistan denied the Indian bowlers more than three successes in the first 35 overs . Mohit Sharma had to wait for the middle overs to pick up a couple of wickets while Mohammed Shami did not look like claiming a wicket . MS Dhoni employed just five bowlers , indicating the composition of the attack that will do duty against Pakistan in the World Cup opener on Sunday. © Getty The less than inspiring performance of India 's bowlers against a spirited Afghanistan top-order in Tuesday 's warm-up at the Adelaide Oval once again tested the patience of the defending champions ' diehard fans . With 364 to defend , the bowlers had the chance to re-discover their wicket-taking skills. Afghanistan 's fearless batsmen , eager to pull the rug from under Bangladesh 's feet in their opening Group A game , denied the Indian bowlers more than three successes in the first 35 overs. Usman Ghani and Nawroz Mangal let their small band of supporters raise an " A-F-G , A-F-G " chant with their enterprise . Bhuvneshwar Kumar was conspicuous by his absence from the bowling line-up on an evening when the sparse crowd at the charming ground saw Mahendra Singh Dhoni employ just five bowlers perhaps indicating the composition of the attack that will do duty against Pakistan in the World Cup opener on Sunday . Umesh Yadav had to shorten his run-up after conceding 14 runs in his first two overs to show that some thought was being given to getting the basics right. Mohit Sharma had to wait for the middle overs to pick up a couple of wickets while Mohammed Shami did not look like claiming a wicket. The fact that none of them completed 10 overs is a fair indication of Dhoni 's thinking . The spinners R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja picked up wickets when the batsmen charged down the track and either holed out or were beaten in flight. To be fair to them , the slow bowlers played a part in reining in the Afghanistan batsmen but it was clear that , without a match-winning bowler , the Indians will end up depending more on their rivals ' mistakes . The batsmen , expectedly , had a glorified net session after Mahendra Singh Dhoni won the toss , which they did with Rohit Sharma 's strokeful 150 leading the way after Shikhar Dhawan and Virat Kohli fell to Afghanistan 's enthusiastic new ball attack. Suresh Raina and Ajinkya Rahane helped themselves to half-centuries as well . Rohit Sharma , recently recovered from a hamstring strain and not having scored many against Australia , did well to set himself the challenge of batting as long as possible against the minnows for whom Hamid Hassan and Dawlat Zadran worked up pace with the new ball. He hit 12 fours and seven sixes to ease some of India 's worries . For several weeks now , the most loyal supporters of the Indian team have preferred to believe that the Carlton Mid tri-series and the two warm-up matches against Australia on Sunday and Afghanistan were but a laboratory which the squad employed to try out a few combinations and to let some players work in simulated situations . They will now hope that the team , which tasted a victory after many weeks of touring Australia , will start delivering at crunch time. They will hope that the men who did duty on Tuesday will prime themselves up to come up with a winning performance in the emotionally-challenging and mouth-watering Group B contest against Pakistan . © Cricbuzz
