WC Countdown # 2 : Why Venky is so hailed Wed , Feb 11 2015 by Kaushik Rangarajan Last updated on Wednesday , 11 February , 2015 , 04 : 10 AM © Getty Much of the Indian media 's marketing strategy around the 2015 World Cup centers around the 'We wo n't give it back ' flavour , an obvious reference to India 's title defense , when arguably one of their greatest moments from World Cup history ( besides their title winning moments ) has actually been about giving it back . Venkatesh Prasad , a lanky Indian medium-pace bowler , had spent two summers on the international circuit before the 1996 World Cup but had largely remained a peripheral figure. At the end of that tournament however , he 'd become a household name. He did n't set the tournament alight by any stretch of imagination yet became the epicentre of India-Pakistan World Cup discussions for years to come . Co-hosts of the 1996 tournament Sri Lanka , India and Pakistan rode the wave of massive expectations to get past the group stage. As fate would have it , the traditional rivals were slotted to face each other in the quarter-final in Bangalore. While India had stuttered their way to the knockouts , Pakistan were coming off dominant wins against England and New Zealand. Electing to bat in a big game , India rode on Navjot Sidhu 's 93 and Ajay Jadeja 's lower-order pyrotechnics to register a solid 287/8. In reply , Pakistan 's openers , Aamer Sohail and Saeed Anwar , blitzed their way to 84 in the opening 10 overs before Javagal Srinath induced a false shot from Anwar to break the stand. Sohail , however , continued to pummel the medium-pacers and raced to his half century. What followed next changed the course of the match and the careers of the individuals involved . With Aamer Sohail feasting even on the slightest width provided outside the off-stump , Prasad decided to come around the wicket to cramp the left-hander for room. A cat and mouse battle ensued and Sohail stepped up to the challenge. He danced down the track and flat-batted a shortish delivery over the cover fielder with utter disdain. The bout was won but Sohail 's competitive edge was not quenched. As Prasad stood motionless mid-pitch , Sohail getured to the bowler , pointing in the direction of the shot , as if to say he would do it again. The intelligent argued , that having made his statement with the bat , Sohail should have refrained from unnecessary chatter. However , the intellectuals grossly underestimated the emotional setting of an India-Pakistan encounter. Despite being visibly rattled , Prasad did n't respond. Not at least , in the immediate aftermath of Sohail 's gesturing . The adrenaline was pumping , the tension in the crowd was palpable. Prasad ran in and pitched the next delivery slightly further up , around the off-stump. In an attempt to double-guess the bowler , Sohail looked to back away and tried to swipe the ball towards mid-wicket. To his dismay , the ball missed the bat and chose instead to connect with the off-stump. The sound of ball hitting timber was engulfed by a roar of approval from over 50,000 Indian fans at the Chinnaswamy. Amidst the hullabaloo , a voice told Sohail exactly where to go using the choicest words. It came from Prasad. The comeback was complete . Pakistan were still stong at 113/2 but the tide had turned. A charged up Venkatesh Prasad added the wickets of Ijaz Ahmed and Inzamam ul-Haq to end with figures of 3/45. Riding on Prasad 's burst , an inspired Indian team stifled the run chase and picked up a 39-run win to proceed to the semi-finals. Pakistan were left to lick their wounds and rue Sohail 's impudence. In retrospect , this truly epic moment from the World Cup may have set an unfortunate precedent to what is today referred to as the 'send-off ' but for India-Pakistan cricket , it was merely another glorious chapter in a richly eventful book. For the 970 million Indians ( in 1996 ) however , it was a classic case of 'What goes around comes around' . © Cricbuzz
