Misbah , Akmal give Pakistan solid victory Wed , Feb 11 2015 by Siddharth Vishwanathan Last updated on Wednesday , 11 February , 2015 , 11 : 43 AM Misbah-ul-Haq 's unbeaten 91 gave Pakistan victory in their final ICC World Cup warm-up . His 133-run partnership with Umar Akmal , who scored 65 , laid the foundation for Pakistan 's victory . Misbah-ul-Haq 's 91 and his 133-run stand with Umar Akmal gave Pakistan victory over England in Sydney. © Getty Misbah-ul-Haq 's unbeaten 91 and his 133-run partnership with Umar Akmal ( 65 ) for the fifth wicket gave Pakistan a four-wicket win with seven balls to spare in their second and final ICC Cricket World Cup warm-up against England in Sydney on Wednesday. This win gives Pakistan tremendous confidence heading into the game against India in Adelaide on February 15 . Chasing 251 , Pakistan got off to a horrid start with Nasir Jamshed ( 1 ) and Ahmed Shehzad ( 2 ) falling cheaply to Stuart Broad and James Anderson respectively. Both Broad and Anderson got the new ball to move and they extracted a bit of extra bounce from the deck and Pakistan 's top order found the going difficult. Younis Khan struggled for timing in his 40-ball stay and he fell to Chris Jordan for 19 when he miscued the pull shot to deep backward square leg . Haris Sohail and Misbah tried to forge a partnership but in trying to maintain the aggression , Sohail ( 33 ) mistimed the lofted shot and Gary Ballance at long-off slid to his right to give James Tredwell his first wicket. Umar Akmal started off slowly and along with Misbah , concentrated on rotating the strike . Misbah followed the style of batting which has served him well in the past. He started off cautiously , nudged the ball into the gaps for singles and couples and then pounced on any loose delivery that was in his zone. He took a liking for Moeen Ali and brought up his fifty off 53 balls by smashing a six and a four as the bowler conceded 12 runs in his eighth over. Akmal grew in confidence and he proved to be the perfect foil. As the partnership grew , the fairly large contingent of Pakistani fans at the SCG cheered their team . The batting Powerplay yielded 27 runs and Pakistan were firmly in the driver 's seat. A further 11 runs were conceded by Chris Jordan in the 42nd over and Akmal notched up his fifty by depositing Jordan over the deep midwicket fence. Broad snapped the 133-run stand when Akmal edged a leg-cutter to depart for 65. Sohaib Maqsood , who played a match-winning knock of 93 in the first warm-up against Bangladesh , struck some good blows to get Pakistan closer. Anderson delayed the inevitable by having Maqsood caught-behind for 20 but Shahid Afridi finished off the match with two consecutive boundaries off Broad. This loss for England raises more questions ahead of their opener against Australia on February 14 in Melbourne . Earlier , a busy 85 from Joe Root and a gritty 57 from Gary Ballance helped England reach 250 for eight. Ballance , who was playing in his first competitive match since September 2014 and was in the team only because of Alastair Cook 's sacking as ODI skipper , scored a solid fifty and this knock puts him in a good position as far as the playing XI is concerned for Melbourne . Yasir Shah , who started his Test career with 27 wickets in five Tests in the UAE against Australia and New Zealand in October-November 2014 , dented England 's progress. Ballance perished for 57 as he hit a slog sweep straight to Maqsood at deep square leg. Three balls later , he accounted for skipper Eoin Morgan with a full toss as the left-hander lap-swept it straight to Younis Khan at first slip. Morgan , who has had scores of 0,2 and 0 after a century against Australia in Sydney in January , is facing a crisis similar to Cook and the onus will be on him to turn the corner once the tournament begins. Ravi Bopara , who came into the match with his place in scrutiny , failed to make it count and was bowled for 11 by a straight delivery that zipped through . Root continued to hang in and some big hits from Chris Jordan got England to 250/8 but thanks to Pakistan 's disciplined bowling in the end , the team managed just 73 runs in the last 10 overs . Brief scores : England 250/8 ( Joe Root 85 , Gary Ballance 57 , Yasir Shah 3/45 ) lost to Pakistan 252/6 ( Misbah-ul-Haq 91 , Umar Akmal 65 , James Anderson 2/42 ) by four wickets . © Cricbuzz Tags
