India make inclusive gesture to 'reserve ' Dhawal Kulkarni Adelaide , Wed , Feb 11 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Wednesday , 11 February , 2015 , 04 : 21 PM Dhawal Kulkarni 's presence at the reception held for the Indian team in Adelaide , of which he is not a part , was unusual as the ICC does n't grant accreditation to more than 15 players . Kulkarni has been kept as a back-up for Bhuvneshwar Kumar , which can be a wise decision as Mohit Sharma ended up replacing Ishant Sharma earlier this month . Dhawal Kulkarni turned in an unusual public appearance in India colours. ( G Rajaraman ) © Cricbuzz Mumbai swing bowler Dhawal Kulkarni turned in an unusual public appearance in India colours for the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , showing up at the colourful , musical and festive reception held for the team by the South Australian Tourism Authority outside the Adelaide Oval on Wednesday . Such was the informality of the event , with South Australia Premier Jay Weatherhill leading the celebrations that even Kulkarni could show up on stage. Held back in Australia , ostensibly as cover for Bhuvneshwar Kumar , the ICC does not consider him to be part of the 15-member Indian squad . With Indian drums heralding his welcome on stage and with the assembled fans cheering him loudly from hailing distance , Mr Weatherhill admitted he had never received such a reception. He was visibly delighted with the growing bond between South Australia and India as a result of persistent efforts , leading to AUD600 million trade each year over the last five years . Skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni , who thanked the fans in the team 's 'home base ' for their consistent support , led the squad on stage. Each member of the squad presented a child an autographed miniature bat. As they stood in a row , the players got a glimpse of the unstinted support they get from fans . Yet , it was Kulkarni 's presence on stage that spoke tellingly . Since the World Cup protocols kicked in , the Indian team has had but one nets session and played two warm-up games. Kulkarni has not been able to take part in any of these outings with the team since the ICC does not grant accreditation for more than 15 players and a fixed number of support staff . With the team management clamming up , it is hard to say whether Kulkarni 's appearance on stage on Wednesday was only an inclusive gesture to the Mumbai bowler in making him feel part of the plans and not anything else. After all , the decision to keep Mohit Sharma back in Australia proved right when Ishant Sharma failed a fitness test last week and flew home . It is unusual for the International Cricket Council to let non-accredited personnel stay in team hotels where the security is so tight that the staff is instructed not to transfer calls through to a player or an official 's room without a series of checks. Since ICC started running its events , it has exercised care in providing access to team hotels , dressing rooms and even team buses . The drummers of the Shiva Garjana group from Pune , South Australians of Indian origin , and Aboriginals teamed up to provide a memorable cultural fare that included Indian percussion , Bollywood music and dance , fusion , an invocation to ancestors and native dance to the clicking rhythm of boomerangs . © Cricbuzz
