Clarke set to miss MCG opener Thu , Feb 12 2015 Last updated on Thursday , 12 February , 2015 , 03 : 26 AM Clarke is yet to regain full fitness According to Darren Lehmann , Clarke will take part in the match against Bangladesh on February 21 Michael Clarke is yet to regain full fitness © Getty Michael Clarke will not be participating in Australia 's World Cup opener against England on Saturday. The 33-year-old skipper will not be rushed back despite having a satisfactory outing against UAE in the warm-up tie on Wednesday . Australia coach Darren Lehmann confirmed his absence from the February 14 tie and believed he will be back for the second match against Bangladesh seven days later . " Happy with the way he pulled up and really happy with his progress , " Lehmann said. " But we 're going to stick with the plan and he 'll play against Bangladesh. Really happy with the way it 's gone , the way he batted , ran , fielded , bowled , he ticked all the boxes. A good solid week [ ahead ] and get prepared for Bangladesh. " Clarke was seen warming-up at the MCG following the game against UAE , in which he showed encouraging signs scoring 64. However , the medical staff believes he is still some way off from achieving full fitness for which he needs to follow the suggested schedule for recovery . " He 's very keen to play but we 've got to make sure that when he gets back he 'll be ready to go , and he will be on Saturday [ next ] week , " Lehmann said. " We just had a chat. He 's respectful of what we 're trying to do , get him right. He 's a quality player and a quality leader. Whilst we would have loved to have him available for this game , we 're making sure he 's 100 % and ready to go for Bangladesh. " With the World Cup just two days away , Clarke is not the only casualty Australia are having to deal with. The question mark surrounding allrounder James Faulkner is another concern for the four-time World Champions. Faulkner suffered a side strain during the tri-series final against England and Lehmann has no clarity as to when he 'll regain full fitness . " He 's batting comfortably now , so that 's a good sign for us , " Lehmann said. " We 're just dictated by the medical team at the moment with that. Hopefully he 'll resume bowling very shortly. We 'll wait and see on that one . " We 'll look at those options , depending on where we 're playing and what the conditions are like , and who we 're playing is probably the key , " Lehmann said. " We 'll look at all of those. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
