Akram names trio to ignite World Cup Thu , Feb 12 2015 Last updated on Thursday , 12 February , 2015 , 04 : 35 AM De Villers recently cracked a 31-ball century against the West Indies Warner and Maxwell scored centuries in the warm-up against India on Sunday David Warner , Glenn Maxwell and AB de Villiers have been tipped to dominate the World Cup. © Getty Former Pakistan skipper Wasim Akram believes batsmen AB de Villiers , Glenn Maxwell and David Warner will dominate the World Cup during its marathon six weeks. The trio had a fruitful 2014 with Warner scoring 406 runs at an average of 36.9 and de Villiers cracking a 31-ball century recently against the West Indies . " I am sure [ Glenn ] Maxwell , [ David ] Warner and [ AB ] de Villiers will ignite this World Cup , " Wasim told AFP. " These three players have the firepower to take the game away in a blaze and it will be hugely exciting for the crowds to watch them. " De Villiers hit the fastest one-day hundred against the West Indies , barely a month out from the World Cup and will be key to South Africa landing their first title. Maxwell and Warner hit belligerent hundreds in the warm-up game against India at Adelaide on Monday to signal what they have in store for the opponents . Wasim said any bowler would dread bowling at these batsmen. " It will be a big challenge for the bowlers , " the 48-year-old said. " I would always go for taking their wickets rather than trying to contain them because if they stay longer they will pose trouble for you. Pitch the ball , let it get swing and get them out is my advice. " The former fast bowler said that on current form Australia , New Zealand and South Africa are the teams to beat. The Black Caps had one of the best years in 2014 with a win percentage of 75 in ODIs , whereas South Africa and Australia registered series wins against New Zealand and Pakistan respectively. " For me Australia , New Zealand and South Africa are the top favourites as they have been playing consistent cricket for the last few months. Being the co-hosts , they have the advantage of playing in familiar conditions , which for me is a big advantage. " Wasim believes the warm-up results will have no bearing whatsoever in the tournament proper and said that the format of the World Cup will give teams time to recover even if their start is dodgy. " I think results of the warm-up games will count for nothing , " he said. " The format of this World Cup is so good that it allows a team to stage a come back even if they lose the first one or two games and from the quarter-finals onwards it will depend on how you play on the day. " © AFP
