Christchurch gives World Cup a gala opening Christchurch , Thu , Feb 12 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Thursday , 12 February , 2015 , 03 : 17 PM The huge crowd was treated to four hours of fun , with lines forming into the venue a couple hours before the opening ceremony began . For a city still struggling with the aftermath of the devastating 2011 earthquake , this was a massive day . The crowd for the opening ceremony at Christchurch. © Cricbuzz " It 's amazing , is n't it ? " remarked Gavin Larsen , the former New Zealand bowler , as he stood on a grass bank leading up to North Hagley Park , venue for the opening ceremony of the 2015 ICC World Cup. " This is really important for Christchurch , the people really need something like this after the earthquake. It 's just fantastic. " With that , Larsen was away , black jacket swung over his shoulder. A couple hours later , he was standing on a huge stage in front of an estimated 20,000 as one of six former New Zealand internationals representing the country 's World Cup host cities. Looking somewhat sheepish when asked by compere Matt Heath about how he got his famous nickname of 'The Postman ' and his most memorable dot ball ever bowled , Larsen , 52 , replied : " I once bowled three consecutive dot balls to Brian Lara. It was a big achievement. " This was one of the subtle moments on a spectacular evening at Hagley Park , but a touching one as it came amid a memorable tete-a-tete between the three comperes and the other former players on stage - Rod Latham ( Dunedin ) , Geoff Allott ( Nelson ) , Debbie Hockey ( Napier ) , Lee Germon ( Hamilton ) and Chris Harris ( Auckland ) - and later Sir Richard Hadlee , New Zealand cricket 's most famous son and a Canterbury native . Also in attendance was All Blacks captain Richie McCaw , and New Zealand Prime Minister John Key who unveiled the World Cup trophy to plenty of cheer and backed the home team to do the country proud . In her opening speech , Christchurch Mayor Lianne Dalziel said the city had been 'waiting for a very long time ' to be able to showcase a major sporting event - the earthquakes ruled out hosting of the 2011 Rugby World Cup - and welcomed the world to 'our backyard " because in New Zealand 'we play our cricket in our backyards as families' . The huge crowd was treated to four hours of fun , with lines forming into the venue a couple hours before the opening ceremony began. Four ovals had different events , ranging from traditional Sri Lankan and Indian dances to Caribbean-themed characters and Morris , Highland and Irish dancers and local performers. At kiosks around the ovals , in the middle of which 80 schoolchildren asked fans to come and bowl to them , the food available included empanadas , churros , jerk chicken , gelato , pizza , sausage roles , fish and chips , samosas , onion bajjis and various curries . Off to one corner of the park , on a tree-lined strip of trodden grass , the New Zealand , Zimbabwean and Sri Lankan teams emerged looking dapper in suit and ties. The biggest cheer was clearly for the New Zealand team as they entered , with several fans running towards them waving flags and chanting Come on Black Caps ! and shaking whatever hands they could find. Ross Taylor was almost overwhelmed by the local adulation , while Daniel Vettori and Grant Elliott tried their best to stay composed. When Elton Chigumbura and his team-mates walked through , a small group of Zimbabwean fans ran up to them and greeted them loudly , turning around to get the spectators looking on to clap. It made for a touching moment . An overhead helicopter had many spectators reaching skywards with their cameras and smartphones , and then the ceremony began at 8 : 30pm with traditional Sri Lanka dancing , followed by Scottish bagpipes and Bollywood and Irish dancing. Then came the Maori performers and the cultural performers , including hakas , and there were soulful performances from some of the country 's top musical acts in Ginny Blackmore , Sol3 Mio , Hayley Westenra , the New Zealand Army Band and Shapeshifter who , in particular , had the crowd moving with his beats just before the fireworks lit up the clear Christchurch sky . For a city still struggling with the aftermath of the devastating 2011 earthquake , this was a massive day. Hopefully those Christchurch residents that came to Hagley Park on Thursday were given a reason to smile , and to believe , and to just enjoy themselves . © Cricbuzz
