Tendulkar predicts semi-finalists for World Cup 2015 Thu , Feb 12 2015 Last updated on Thursday , 12 February , 2015 , 05 : 22 PM Sachin Tendulkar feels India will be one among the four sides to make it to the semi-final of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 The batting legend also said Australia , New Zealand and South Africa are favourites to make it to the final-four Tendulkar said India will have to perform as a unit and MS Dhoni 's calm leadership will also play an important role in their title defence. © Getty Sachin Tendulkar feels India will be one among the four sides to make it to the semi-final of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , while he also said Australia , New Zealand and South Africa are favourites to make it to the final-four round . " According to me , the top four teams that I would put them in the semis would be Australia , New Zealand , South Africa and India , " Tendulkar said in an interview to Headlines Today . Tendulkar , who featured in six World Cups - a joint record with Javed Miandad - said India will have to perform as a unit and MS Dhoni 's calm leadership will also play an important role in their title defence . " I think MS Dhoni is the guy because he has the experience of competing at this level for close to 10 years and he is calm and composed. You know , even on the biggest of the stages he is calm and composed and that is what you expect from a leader , " said Tendulkar , who was part of the Dhoni-led side that won the trophy in 2011 . " A leader should not panic , a quality which he has , and you know it 's equally important for a captain to be in a good form also to take his team forward , only one individual can not make you win the trophy. You need the support of the entire team , " Tendulkar said . About Virat Kohli , Tendulkar said he is an intelligent cricketer who reads the game well. " I think Virat Kohli is brilliant , his biggest strength is that he analyses the situation very well and also analyses the conditions , the pitch , the surface that he is going to bat on. He picks that very quickly , and then he is sure about when he 's going to collect his runs and how he 's going to collect his runs , " he said . Shikhar Dhawan might have struggled for runs Down Under but Tendulkar feels the left-handed opener will find the pitches to his liking if he gets going in the World Cup. " Shikhar has not had a great time in Australia , but when he gets going , his game is suited for those hard and bouncy wickets. I think Shikhar , when he gets going early on in the tournament , will be a key factor. " India take on Pakistan on Sunday , February 15 , in their campaign opener. It promises to be a high-voltage contest in Adelaide but Tendulkar said their arch-rivals are not as strong as they used to be in the past and also lacked consistency . " With time things change and so will the teams. I remember when we played in 2003 against Pakistan in Centurion , the bowling attack has Wasim Akram , Shoaib Akhtar , Waqar Younis , Abdul Razzak , Shahid Afridi - the leading attack in the world I would say. They definitely do n't have an attack of that calibre , but that does not mean the newer lot can not deliver , they can still deliver but you know they lack that substance . " I think Mohammad Irfan is one bowler who can consistently bowl well in Australia and New Zealand. The rest of the guys , there are a few guys. Wahab Riaz can bowl , but I feel they might lack consistency , " said Tendulkar , who won three man-of-the-match awards in India 's five World Cup wins against Pakistan since 1992 . On co-hosts New Zealand 's chances of winning the tournament , Tendulkar said , " New Zealand is very close to them. I think New Zealand is another under-rated team but they are a strong side , they have a decent bowling attack and all of them can bat. " Tendulkar is impressed with the way Steven Smith has matured as a cricketer and feels the Australian will have a key role to play for his team during the World Cup . " Four months ago nobody would have said that Steve Smith would perform so well in Test cricket , one day cricket and T20. He was always a dangerous player especially T20 , but he has also shown tremendous qualities in Test cricket. That makes him a strong contender to be one of the top players of the World Cup . " He is energetic , he is vibrant and his energy is infectious. He led the Australian team ( from the front ) in the Test series and also played well in the one-day series - this is something that one needs to take notice of , " Tendulkar said . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
