We give ourselves a good chance : McCullum Christchurch , Fri , Feb 13 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Friday , 13 February , 2015 , 03 : 00 AM McCullum believes that the current New Zealand side is the best he 's been a part of The expectations of the fans is immense since New Zealand are hosting a World Cup after 23 years Brendon McCullum has had an impressive run with the bat over the past year and a half © Getty For the first time in his career , Brendon McCullum finds himself repeatedly trying to play down and talk positively of this New Zealand cricket team 's chances at the 2015 World Cup. They have , after all , been in eye-catching form across all formats over the past 15 months , winning series over West Indies ( home and away ) , India ( home ) , Pakistan ( home and away ) and Sri Lanka ( home ) . It is not familiar territory for New Zealand captains , even though past teams have done well at World Cups. But this year , things are different. This is a home World Cup , after 23 years , and so people are talking up New Zealand 's chances. It is a big chance for cricket - a summer sport here in New Zealand - to capture the hearts and minds of the country 's sporting fans. Yet New Zealand cricket teams are n't known to talk themselves up. It 's not their style . Two days after Trent Boult dismissed notions that this was New Zealand 's best shot at winning the tournament by saying that he did n't believe the team was invincible , McCullum faced up to further questioning from the local and international media about how good his side is. His answers were measured yet forthright , a glint in the eye and a hint of a smile sometimes lighting up what was otherwise a matter-of-fact face on the eve of the World Cup opener at Hagley Park . " Everyone 's excited , " said McCullum. " It 's been a great build-up. The management staff , the selectors , the coaching staff have done a brilliant job getting us to this point , and now it 's a matter of how we seize the opportunities that we get. We 've had great preparation and played some good cricket , but we know that the slate is clean when we start on Saturday . " We 've still got a lot of hard work to put in , continue to progress as a team and make sure we can continue the confidence and momentum and the type of cricket we 've been playing recently and do it in pressure situations. The guys are enthusiastic about it and we 're going to get a great crowd in , so it 'll be great to kick the tournament off. Last night [ the opening ceremony ] was a good event , the guys really enjoyed that and now it is a matter of getting on with cricket. " The success of McCullum 's team in 2014 , which began with a Test and ODI sweep of India at home and ended with an eight-wicket thrashing of Sri Lanka in the Boxing Day Test , and this year has included a superb run over Sri Lanka and Pakistan , which has lifted the hopes of New Zealand fans. On Wednesday they hammered South Africa by 134 runs in a warm-up game in front of 3,000-odd spectators at Hagley Oval , and an opening ceremony on Thursday with 20,000 in attendance here in Christchurch has added to the upbeat tempo . But with the tide of expectations rising , New Zealand were learning to cope. " It 's something we probably mitigated against a while ago. We knew that if we could gain some performances leading into a World Cup at home , the expectations would rise , " said McCullum. " We were able to deal with that a while ago. We put some things in place to be able to deal with that , and one of the things we discussed a lot within the group is being really stable emotionally . " The game has its ups and downs without having to add your own to it , so we 're trying to maintain a real stable emotional environment where guys work hard and prepare accordingly , go out and give their absolute best to the team , replicate the role you 've been given. You never know if it 's going to work in crunch situations , but it 's going to give us our best chance. " For McCullum , who has played in three World Cups , this was the most confident and ready a New Zealand side he had been a part of. " Certainly , from the ones that I 've played in , it 's the best prepared team , all-round team , " he said. " We tick most boxes and I think the style we play , which we 've crunched down over a period of time , is something we 're comfortable with. We 've had different personnel come in and out over the last little while but the game-plans always remained the same . " It 's a good sign for a team that they 're able to replicate the same game-plan despite different people , so overall we 've got a nice mix of youth and experience. The youth sometimes bring the experience on a little bit , but in terms of getting some enthusiasm out of them as well and letting the experienced guys paint the way forward , it 's a nice mix. It 's a team that I 'm really comfortable taking into a World Cup. We 'll give ourselves a good chance. " The 33-year-old , who has seen various management and personnel changes in his career , and who has had to deal with player troubles and leadership clashes , credited a professional work ethic as a big factor. " No , we never have been [ so prepared ] , " he said , " Not the ones I 've been to anyway. You always hoped that things would work out well. Did you genuinely believe it ? Maybe , maybe not. We believe we are a good cricket team and that we have a chance in this World Cup , but jeez , there are some good teams around as well and we know that. We 're going to need things to fall into our favour at times as well . " We 're going to need to seize some key moments when they arise as well. I think the structure of the tournament , how you play the quarters , semis and if you reach that far , there are lots of pressure situations during those few games and there can only be one winner. It sits comfortably with me that if we play our best cricket , we stand up and perform to the level that we know , if we get beat then we get beat. But if we can do that , I think we can walk away pretty satisfied. That will give us our best chance in this tournament. You go out there and give your best and I 'm confident that if we give our best then we 'll be tough to beat. " Their form from 2014 and now in seven weeks of 2015 indicates a team brimming with talent and purpose , justifiably heightening the fans ' expectations. If McCullum is able to replicate his personal form and lead the team as he 's done so well of late , and the entire unit takes it to a higher level , then he is in for a heck of a ride , with all of New Zealand 's cricket fans riding shotgun . © Cricbuzz Tags
