WC Countdown # 1 : Dhoni seals it with a six Fri , Feb 13 2015 by Vishaal Loganathan Last updated on Friday , 13 February , 2015 , 01 : 24 PM © Getty India need 162 runs to win the World Cup , but Tillakaratne Dilshan pulls out a stunning catch to remove Virat Kohli for 35. Time for Yuvraj Singh , India 's man for the moment so far in the 2011 World Cup ! But no , MS Dhoni strides out. He is nearly out stumped off the second delivery , but lady luck favours India 's Captain Cool . India need 124 runs to win the World Cup. Dhoni takes his time to get in. His first boundary comes off the 25th ball he faces . India need 79 runs to win the World Cup. Dhoni is down on the ground. He is wincing in pain , India feels his pain. 'We need him back up, ' and up he gets. He walks over to Gambhir , chats with the left-hander. Even cracks a joke , it seems. Captain cool , indeed . India need 54 runs to win the World Cup , but the well-set Gautam Gambhir is out bowled for 97. Finally , Yuvraj Singh is out to bat , but it is Dhoni India need more. India 's captain courageous HAS to bat on . India need 27 off 24 balls to win the World Cup. Dhoni blasts the ball past mid-off for a much-needed boundary. Yuvraj follows suit soon after. India are almost there... Dhoni is still there ! India need 16 off 18 balls to win the World Cup. Dhoni slams Lasith Malinga for two successive boundaries. Everyone but the small Sri Lankan contingent at the ground are jumping with joy. Everyone , except MS Dhoni . 40,000 + fans at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai , India. Majority of whom are belting out Vande Mataram. Goosebumps. India are almost there . India need five runs to Win the World Cup. Five off 12 , becomes four off 11 with a Yuvraj single. MS Dhoni is back on strike . India need four runs to win the World Cup. Dhoni is on strike. Vande Mataram gets louder. More goosebumps. Kulasekara delivers a length ball. An almighty swing , a loud * twack * followed by a massive roar. And then a booming '... and Dhoni finishes it off in style' . MS Dhoni had a previous best of 34 in the World Cup , but he ends up scoring 91 off 79 balls in India 's most important match. India 's 28-year wait was ended. The prize India sought for long was won and a nation rejoiced . © Cricbuzz
