Expectations high from World Cup opener Christchurch , Fri , Feb 13 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Friday , 13 February , 2015 , 05 : 59 AM New Zealand and Sri Lanka play the first match of the World Cup 2015 at Hagley Park on Saturday Sri Lanka captain Angelo Mathews confirmed that Lasith Malinga would play the first game New Zealand , riding a high over the last year , are coming off a 134-run hammering of South Africa. © Getty New Zealand were in trouble against Zimbabwe. Zimbabwe beat Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka lost to South Africa. South Africa lost to New Zealand. Whatever significance has already been attached to these three results in Lincoln and Christchurch this week - Kyle Abbott termed it " amazing " to watch South Africa scrap to a narrow win , JP Duminy said they " were n't fazed " by defeat - is likely to evaporate come February 14 when the 2015 ICC World Cup begins at Hagley Park. The nature of the warm-up game is such that teams tend not to take them too seriously , with the option of fielding all 15 players. But history has shown us that you really can not read too much into them. In a 2007 World Cup warm-up , India bowled out West Indies for 85 and we all know how that tournament turned out for them . Game one of the World Cup features the hosts New Zealand , riding a high over the last year and coming off a 134-run hammering of South Africa at the very venue for Saturday , the scenic Hagley Oval , facing Sri Lanka - finalists in the last two World Cups. Two teams with good World Cup records , and who know each other pretty well. Sri Lanka have been stationed in the country for about seven weeks , and would have a good sense of the conditions. New Zealand , skippered by Brendon McCullum , are being talked up as title contenders after their best-ever Test year and with ODI series wins over India , Pakistan and Sri Lanka . On Friday , a day before the World Cup opener in Christchurch , McCullum was asked once again about the added pressure of captaining one of the favourites , who are in excellent form , in front of the home fans. This is a massive game not only for the home team but for the host city , which remains in parts devastated from the aftermath of the tragic 2011 earthquakes. Whoever you ask , the theme of Christchurch 's sporting fans needing reason to cheer has been resonant . " I 've got a job to do and its all-encompassing in terms of captaincy , opening the batting and trying to execute the strategies on the field. Is there extra pressure ? I guess it is there on everyone , " he said. " Just because the nature of it being a World Cup , I 'm excited about it and I have high ambitions as to what I want to achieve. Whether you achieve them or not is another thing , but I go in feeling reasonably confident and secure in the fact that I 'm surrounded by guys who I trust and believe in. " Belief. It 's a word that has in a sense epitomised New Zealand 's surge as a team over in the year leading up to the World Cup. Against India , a team that has regularly bossed them in ODIs in recent years , they won 4-0 last January. Then a Test series win in the West Indies , a 2-0 ODI loss at home to South Africa , before a come-from-behind Test draw against Pakistan in the UAE. In the subsequent ODIs , New Zealand won 3-2. Sri Lanka landed in the country and were beaten in the Tests and ODIs , then Pakistan handed a 2-0 ODI series loss. How do you not believe that this is a team who believes in itself ? " When you go into a tournament as underdogs , dark horses or favourites , it is all irrelevant once the games start , " reckoned McCullum. " It 's great because it drums up energy and anticipation and expectation , but once the game actually starts it is back to the contest in its purest form - which is bat and ball and someone wins and someone loses. So that is the mentality we 've got and we know what works for us. That is all we can focus , not on how some people have an expectation from us and how some people are writing us off. It is irrelevant from our point of view. We know what we need to do to succeed and if someone else is good enough to beat us , then so be it. " Sri Lanka are also riding on belief , their captain Angelo Mathews insisted while he spoke of what the team has learnt from their time in the country. " It is nice to have played a bit more cricket in New Zealand before the start of the World Cup , but from tomorrow onwards whoever plays the best cricket will go on to win , " he said. " I think we have a slight advantage. We got used to the conditions , we have a fair idea of what the wickets are like , but we 've got to be aggressive and play good cricket to win against New Zealand. They are on a roll , they 've been winning plenty of games in the recent past , so we need to back our strengths and be positive. " Sri Lanka have not zeroed in on their playing XI for Saturday 's match , but Mathews confirmed that Lasith Malinga would play. His addition gives the team its bowling spearhead , a sling-arm fast bowler with 271 ODI wickets and the experience of two World Cups , during which he left an impression on both occasions. The significance of Malinga 's return - he has taken 29 wickets against New Zealand in 21 ODIs - was not lost on McCullum . " He 's a world-class bowler who makes a significant difference to their bowling line-up , " he said. " Predominantly at the back end of the game. He 's a phenomenal death bowler , a factor which we have to overcome if we 're going to succeed in this game. If we can head into those final overs with a nice platform , and if we 've ticked off some of our key ingredients along the way , then hopefully we can put him under a little bit of pressure. Certainly Sri Lanka is a stronger team for Lasith Malinga 's involvement. " If the conditions at Hagley Park over the two warm-up matches here this week are any indication , the surface will encourage batting and bowling. On Monday , Sri Lanka got to 279 for 7 in 44.4 overs and asked tough questions of South Africa who stumbled to a D/L revised target of 188 with three balls and five wickets remaining. Sri Lanka 's innings contained a cut-and-pull-fuelled century off 82 balls by Tillakaratne Dilshan. On Wednesday , New Zealand racked up 331 for 8 in 50 overs and then bowled out South Africa for 197 in 44.2 , with Boult and Tim Southee 's early strikes effectively ending the match as a contest before Duminy and Vernon Philander produced gritty fifties . Having played two one-day matches here on tour - an ODI in January and Monday 's warm-up against South Africa - Mathews knew the nature of the surface. " It depends on the weather , but the wicket looks really good. There will be a lot of runs , " he said. " If it is a good wicket , we will try and bat first. We 've got the bowlers to stop the opposition and if we have to bowl first , we 've got the experience in our batting [ to chase ] . So it does n't really matter for us. As long as we play good cricket , our brand of cricket , we will be able to win. " McCullum echoed Mathews ' views. " [ The pitch ] looks good , looks like it 's got a bit of bounce and should be an even cricket wicket , " he said. " That 's what you want in a World Cup , a pitch that has a bit for both parties. We 're going to have an even surface on which the team that plays the best cricket will come out on top. It 's a good wicket that 's been prepared. " © Cricbuzz Tags
