Dhoni signals he means business , India focus on own skills Adelaide , Fri , Feb 13 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Friday , 13 February , 2015 , 08 : 20 AM MS Dhoni practised hard ahead of the Pakistan match. ( Image courtesy : G Rajaraman ) © Cricbuzz It is his job , the more practical among us would say , but when skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni took an early-morning flight here from Melbourne and drove from the airport to the St Peter 's College to join his Indian team-mates at the nets on Friday , he was effectively sending out a simple message : he means business as he heads in the ICC Cricket World Cup . For a team that has travelled a great deal across Australia since last November and has taken some flak from the uncharitable for skipping nets on a few occasions , Dhoni 's decision to take an early morning flight after the late evening ceremonies in Melbourne on Thursday can not be seen as anything but a reflection of his determination . He did not spend much time to slip into training gear and walked to the nets for a session , mainly focussed on big hitting. If he and his team-mates were thinking of Sunday 's game against Pakistan as a grudge contest , they did not show it . Even if the buzz in Melbourne and the enormous attention he would have got on the flight to Adelaide do n't not compare with the hype and expectation back home , the tranquil of the training facility in one of Australia 's earliest public schools would have come as a big relief to the captain . All that was on view was concerted preparation , with nothing to distract focus. Of course , in the time to the start of the match , much more work will be done both at the nets and behind closed doors. But , after two days of workouts , it can be said that the team is doing all it can to crank up the intensity to optimum levels . Some distance away , at the Adelaide Oval which will host the high-voltage match , Pakistan also got into preparation mode , casting aside reports of eight of their players being handed down fines and warnings for breaching team protocols in Sydney. Besides , the experienced Shahid Afridi spoke about his side being ready to break their World Cup jinx of never beating India . Back at St Peter 's College , home of the Indian team over two days , Dhoni and his men were happy just to focus on their own skills , each player sticking to a pre-determined routine , be it with the bat or ball or on the field. However , question marks remained over Bhuvneshwar Kumar 's fitness since he had a reduced workload . There was a tender moment when allrounder Stuart Binny gave up the ice pack he was using on his shoulder to the school 's photographer who suffered a stinging hit on his shin by a massive Ravindra Jadeja strike from some 80 yards away. The photographer did turn around upon hearing a warning shout from the Indian tent but could not avoid getting hit . For all that , the sight of Dhoni , complete with his trademark battle fatigue backpack , getting off an official ICC car was Friday 's special moment. It told of how the leader wanted to be with the troops , having completed his ceremonial duties. It told us that Dhoni would not let anything come in the way of his preparation . © Cricbuzz
