Misbah-ul-Haq Will Lead Pakistan in World Cup 2015 Misbah-ul-Haq Will Lead Pakistan in World Cup 2015 Misbah-ul-Haq had pulled his hamstring during the second one-day international against New Zealand in the UAE recently and there were fears that his injury might require more than six weeks to heal completely. The board chief Shaharyar Khan , however , has confirmed that he will be skipper during the showpiece event in 2015 . Last updated on Wednesday , 24 December , 2014 14 : 55 IST Total Shares File photo : Misbah-ul-Haq © AFP Karachi : Even though Misbah-ul-Haq is carrying a grade two hamstring injury , the chairman of PCB Shaharyar Khan has made it clear he will lead Pakistan in the World Cup 2015 . " This is the first time that Misbah has copped an injury in his career and he is working hard to recover from it and I am confident he will be ready in time for the World Cup , " Shaharyar said yesterday . Misbah pulled his hamstring during the second one-day international against New Zealand in the UAE recently and there had been fears that his injury might require more than six weeks to heal completely . A specialist noted that a grade two hamstring injury meant the problem could recur anytime . But Shaharyar said Misbah , 41 , was the chosen captain for the World Cup . " There is no need for concern. I have spoken to Misbah and he is confident his injury will heal in time and he will be ready for the World Cup. He is a thorough professional and when he says he will be fit I am ready to back him all the way , " Shaharyar added . The PCB chief said the national selectors would announce the World Cup squad on January 7 and were also consulting Misbah and coach Waqar Younis in this regard . Interestingly , Misbah , on Monday evening at a function organised to give him an award , credited Shaharyar for backing and supporting him strongly at a time when he was under pressure and out of form . " It was the PCB chairman who lifted my spirits and showed faith in me at a time when I was struggling for form and not getting runs , " Misbah said . Shaharyar admitted that Pakistan 's recent performances in one-day internationals had not been very encouraging compared to their Test record . " If we speak honestly our ODI performances have not been up to the mark and we need to improve a lot in many areas. But what is encouraging is that the players are trying hard and I am sure when the World Cup comes around they will be ready for the challenge , " he said . Shaharyar also said the decision to hold fitness tests for players on December 27 and 28 was taken by the selectors and staff at the National Cricket Academy . " I am sure it is good for the players. We have a bunch of talented players and if they are 100 percent fit they should do well in the World Cup. " Story first published on : Wednesday , 24 December 2014 13 : 32 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
