Australia vs England , 2nd Match , Pool A - Preview Fri , Feb 13 2015 by Gokul Gopal Last updated on Friday , 13 February , 2015 , 04 : 47 PM © Getty Four-time champions Australia , playing their first World Cup game at home in 23 years , will be eager to start their campaign in style when they take on England in their opening game on 14th February , 2015. Meanwhile , the Eoin Morgan-led side will be keen on coming up with an allround performance and prevent their traditional rivals from getting off to a winning start . Venue : Melbourne Cricket Ground Start time : 9 : 00 AM IST Australia The co-hosts of the 2015 World Cup are in superb form , having lost only one of their last 13 ODIs. They overcame India and England with ease in the recently-concluded tri-series and are looking set to extend their good form into the World Cup. With explosive batsmen like David Warner and Aaron Finch at the top of the order , and with both players in good form , Australia possibly have the best opening pair in the tournament. The middle order too is packed with quality players like Shane Watson , Steven Smith , George Bailey , Mitchell Marsh and Glenn Maxwell. In fact , Australia 's batting order goes all the way down to number 10 considering that Brad Haddin , Mitchell Johnson and Mitchell Starc can pack quite a punch as well. The bowling unit too is well balanced despite the absence of James Faulkner . Team News : Michael Clarke and James Faulkner are ruled out of this game while Australia are unlikely to include left-arm spinner Xavier Doherty. Pat Cummins and Hazlewood will be fighting for a spot in the eleven with Johnson and Starc as the other frontline pacers. Another option for Australia is to include both at the expense of Mitchell Marsh . Probable XI : David Warner , Aaron Finch , Shane Watson , Steven Smith , George Bailey ( capt ) , Glenn Maxwell , Mitchell Marsh , Brad Haddin ( wk ) , Mitchell Johnson , Mitchell Starc , Josh Hazlewood/Pat Cummins . England England , under Eoin Morgan , will be playing without any expectations , considering their poor ODI form. Taking the captaincy away from Alastair Cook has done little to change the fortunes of the side , apart from a couple of wins against India in the recent tri-series. England 's ODI form has been dismal in the last couple of years. Since 2013 , England have only managed a couple of series wins - against New Zealand in Feb. 2013 and West Indies in Feb. 2014 ( One-off wins against Scotland and Ireland not considered. ) Although they do have a decent batting line-up with the presence of Ian Bell , Moeen Ali , Eoing Morgan and Ravi Bopara among others , only a little pressure is required for England to crack. A quality seam attack is what they will count on to get the job done . Team News : Chris Woakes is likely to be included in the eleven and might open the bowling with James Anderson , while Stuart Broad and Steven Finn will provide the back-up. England are unlikely to include James Tredwell in the line-up unless the nature of the pitch forces them to . Probable XI : Ian Bell , Moeen Ali , James Taylor , Joe Root , Eoin Morgan ( capt ) , Ravi Bopara , Jos Buttler ( wk ) , Chris Woakes , Stuart Broad , Steve Finn , James Anderson . Watch out for : David Warner : James Anderson has said that the hot-headed Australian opener , who is just another spat away from suspension , does not need " too much encouragement " to get riled up. Warner may well decide to give it back to England , but with the bat , and if he does make it big , it will have a devastating effect on Eoin Morgan 's team . Eoin Morgan : Soon after the tri-series , the England captain began his mind-games in order to unsettle Australia 's premium pacer Mitchell Johnson. Morgan might be slightly wary of the left-arm quick , but it he does manage to get the better of Johnson , it would do wonders for England 's confidence . Numbers : 2 : The number of times England have won against Australia in their last 10 ODI encounters. They have also won only twice in six World Cup matches against Australia and their last World Cup win came in 1992 . 1 : The number of individual centuries in Australia-England World Cup matches. Kevin Pietersen scored one in the 2007 World Cup , but it came in a losing cause. Ricky Ponting 's 86 in the same game is the highest by an Australian against England in the World Cup . Quotes : Our record as a team in the games that I 've played is bloody good I reckon , and I 'll stand behind that and what we 've achieved as a group -George Bailey To play at the MCG in front of a full house against Australia in a World Cup is something every player dreams of and we 're all so excited about it - James Anderson
