New Zealand crush Sri Lanka in World Cup opener Christchurch , Sat , Feb 14 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Saturday , 14 February , 2015 , 08 : 30 AM New Zealand registered a 98-run win against the 2011 World Cup finalists Corey Anderson shone with both bat and ball Anderson made 75 and took two wickets in New Zealand 's big win. © Getty The opening match of the 2015 ICC World Cup began as most who had followed the recent string of New Zealand v Sri Lanka contests would have expected , with the hosts dominating with bat and ball to start their tournament campaign with a 98-run win at Hagley Oval on Saturday. Put in to bat , they rattled their way to 331 for 8 thanks largely to rapid fifties from Brendon McCullum and Corey Anderson , and then kept Sri Lanka to 233 in 46.1 overs. While it was New Zealand 's fast bowlers that did the bulk of the damage , the massive wickets of Tillakaratne Dilshan and Mahela Jayawardene ( for a duck ) to Daniel Vettori were instrumental in the end result being so big . Put in to bat by Angelo Mathews in temperatures touching 11 degrees as drizzle blew across the ground , New Zealand were given a rousing start from McCullum , who clattered ten fours and the first six of the tournament - a flowing straight shot in the sight screen off Lasith Malinga - to dominate a century opening stand inside 12 overs. In the eighth over , McCullum smacked Malinga for four fours and that lovely six , and his fifty came up from 35 balls with a carve off Herath for two in the 12th over. To accentuate the landmark , he skipped out and thumped the bowler for four . In the end it was Herath who got McCullum for 65 , a mistimed lofted shot being plucked by Mendis just inside the long-off boundary. Herath operated on a tight line and had an uneasy Williamson pushing with hard hands at deliveries that stopped on him , but the in-form No 3 batsman settled down and soon drives and clips had him scoring at a healthy rate while Martin Guptill ticked off singles with ease. Guptill fell one short of a fifty , feathering Lakmal through to Kumar Sangakkara second ball of the 23rd over . Williamson , soon after hitting a flowing six that was plucked by a spectator to earn himself $ 10,000 , fell to a terrific diving catch by Dimuth Karunaratne and off the next delivery , Sangakkara had Taylor stumped for 14. This double-strike from legspinner Jeevan Mendis did not turn worse for New Zealand owed to an alliance of 65 in 10.1 overs between Anderson and Grant Elliott , who pumped hard between the wickets and guided and steered Malinga sensibly instead of chasing width . Anderson flexed his muscles in the last six overs , particularly fluent when offered room to cut and slash the ball to third man , and picked up a fifty off 36 balls. A front-foot no-ball from Malinga gave Luke Ronchi a life on 16 , and he used it to chip in with 29 off 19 balls in a partnership of 73 in 37 balls. Anderson 's 75 off 46 balls helped New Zealand take 103 off the final ten overs. Malinga , in his first ODI since August , was lacklustre on return with bruising figures of 0 for 84 . Chasing 332 in testing conditions was always going to need something special , in particular a dominant start. Sri Lanka got a 67-run stand in 13 overs but as witnessed during the recent ODIs here in New Zealand , their middle order grossly disappointed. Lahiru Thirimanne was the more pleasing of the openers with some good shots , the pick of which were a Sangakkara-esque drive over the covers off Adam Milne - whose first delivery clocked 149.1kph - for four followed by an upper cut to the third man boundary . As happened during the first innings , it was spin that snapped a good opening stand ; Tillakaratne Dilshan , on 24 , was beaten in flight and gave Vettori the simplest of return catches. That ushered in Sangakkara to good applause from the sizeable contingent of Sri Lankan fans gathered among the 17,228 at Hagley Oval . Thirimanne got a life on 48 when McCullum dropped a catch at short midwicket , leaping up to try and hold a loose shot off an Elliott cutter , but did n't cash in. Trent Boult , in his second spell , produced a lovely full delivery that curved past Thirimanne 's drive and rattled the stumps. Mahela Jayawardene walked in at the fall of Thirimanne 's wickets , and within moments of his arrival played a nothing shot to Vettori and was caught behind. Boult struck again in his next over , winning an lbw appeal against Sangakkara ( 39 ) to leave Sri Lanka hurting at 129 for 4. The ship was sinking . Adam Milne was a bit on the expensive side but hustled with his raw pace , bowling Dimuth Karunaratne ( 14 ) and having Mendis ( 4 ) caught down the legside off a bouncer in the same over. That double-strike crippled Sri Lanka to a point of no return. Heading into the final ten overs , Sri Lanka 's required rate had crept past 12 and there was no comeback from there , with Tim Southee adding to their woes with a further double-blow. For good measure , Anderson took the last wicket to fall and ended a memorable World Cup debut with 2 for 18 . Brief scores : New Zealand 331/6 in 50 overs ( Brendon McCullum 65 , Kane Williamson 57 , Corey Anderson 75 ) beat Sri Lanka 233 in 46.1 overs ( Lahiru Thirimanne 65 , Daniel Vettori 2/34 , Tim Southee 2/43 , Corey Anderson 2/18 ) by 98 runs © Cricbuzz Tags
