Roving Reporter : A streaker and a million-dollar man Christchurch , Sat , Feb 14 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Saturday , 14 February , 2015 , 06 : 06 AM The opening game of World Cup 2015 saw a good turnout - the official count is 17,228 - at idyllic Hagley Oval , with spectators queuing in well before start time . ( Picture taken by Jamie Alter ) © Cricbuzz For starters , the rain stayed away. Which , in 'four-seasons-in-a-day ' Christchurch , is pretty good . The opening game of the 2015 ICC World Cup saw a good turnout - the official count is 17,228 - at idyllic Hagley Oval , with spectators queuing in well before start time. This is a big day for the city , which since the devastating earthquake of February 2011 has not had a sporting event of this nature. So there is a level of expectation when one lands up at the ground a little after 9 AM to get a sense of what the mood is like . The toss for the big game is a little under an hour and a half away , the start 30 minutes later. Hagley Oval is not quite buzzing , but within 45 minutes there is big turnout. When the toss does happen , the ground is almost packed. The crowd makes for a warm atmosphere , despite the biting cold. It is the New Zealand summer , after all. The large grass bank on the grounds northeast side is filled with spectators sitting on blankets or portable folding chairs , while up in the four stands there are thousands more . Old 1992 World Cup jerseys - Larsen , Crowe and Patel - can be seen here and there. A flame of fire springs up when Brendon McCullum hits the first six of the tournament , off Lasith Malinga into the sight screen. Beer flows , corn dogs are munched , music blares. The DJ has a good collection of songs , ranging from pop hits from David Guetta to Coldplay and Bob Dylan to Tears for Fears and the Black Eyed Peas. Intermittently , the Sri Lankan trumpet is heard . Undoubtedly , the spectator of the day is 31-year-old Sunjay Ganda , whose stunning one-handed catch down the ground from a Kane Williamson-lofted six could potentially make him a million dollar man. Among thousands at Hagley Park hoping to catch the ball in flight from behind the white picket fence around the ground , Gunda 's eye-popping take had the fans around him jumping and back-slapping him. Wearing an orange t-shirt purchased as part of the Tui Catch a Million promotion , Ganda now stands to make $ 250,000 but could potentially pocket $ 1million . Chris Harris is in one section of the stands , enjoying the game. Russell Arnold and Ian Bishop , when not on air , walk around to get a sense of the crowd from out in the open. Former New Zealand cricketer Debbie Hockley - and the fourth female to be inducted into the ICC 's Hall of Fame - is one of the volunteers at Hagley Oval and is always there with a smile , whether on duty in the media centre or guiding spectators through entry and exit points. Standing on the stairs of the press box during New Zealand 's innings as the bitter cold southerly blows across the ground , she says she 's keeping warm watching McCullum and Kane Williamson smoke drives and cuts off Sri Lanka 's bowlers . ( Picture taken by Jamie Alter ) © Cricbuzz Behind the press box sits a mini-van , home to the seven-man Alternative Commentary Collective that consists of media personality Jeremy Wells , comedian Leigh Hart , Radio Hauraki Breakfast host Matt Heath , actor Jason Hoyte , director Lee Baker , and Beige Brigade co-founders Mike Lane and Paul Ford. Somewhat similar to Test Match Sofa in the UK , but unlike them in that they are recognised by New Zealand Cricket and allowed to commentate from within World Cup venues , AMC will be going around the country during the tournament hoping to attract new people to cricket . Dennis Arthur , an old friend whom I met after 19 years , is a police officer here in Christchurch. He 's on duty at the ground as a part of a large police contingent. He ca n't talk much while on the job , but says he 's having a great day and enjoys the cricket . Apart from some coruscating shots , athletic catches and splayed stumps , the fans are given an entertaining moment when at 6.24 PM a streaker burst over the long-off boundary and ran towards the action in the middle. He is soon brought to the ground by six security guards and taken off the field - surely to cop a hefty fine and a ban from Hagley Oval - and will likely not feel too good about himself when the alcohol wears off. A far less successful attempt was made by another inebriated member of the public at 6.51 , but the fall of the final Sri Lankan wicket remained the focus at that stage . © Cricbuzz
