'Unbelievable ' Vettori underlines his worth Christchurch , Sat , Feb 14 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Saturday , 14 February , 2015 , 07 : 47 AM Daniel Vettori 's wickets of Tillakaratne Dilshan and Mahela Jayawardene jolted Sri Lanka . Vettori , playing in his fifth World Cup , finished with figures of 10-0-34-2 . Daniel Vettori picked up the key wickets of Mahela Jayawardene and Tillakaratne Dilshan. © Getty Daniel Vettori wanted to be here. It was a day he 'd had in mind when he decided to plug through a summer of Twenty20 cricket in order to prove his creaking body was World Cup-ready when the New Zealand selectors sat to pick the squad of 15. The opening match of the 2015 ICC World Cup. New Zealand 's first at home in 23 years , a massive incentive for Vettori to try and be a part of . " I do n't have a lot of confidence in my body , " he said in an interview last October , eyes trained on making New Zealand 's World Cup squad. But he persisted , dragged his body over the line and proved his fitness , and those who matter within New Zealand Cricket and the team knew that what he brought in terms of experience was immense. The 1992 World Cup had captivated Vettori at 13 , and the prospect of being a part of that legacy was not about to be missed . On Saturday at Hagley Oval , in front of more than 17,000 fans on a very special day for Christchurch , the 35-year-old finished with excellent figures of two for 34 , his best outing in six ODIs. His victims ? Two thirds of Sri Lanka 's veteran batting trio - Tillakaratne Dilshan and Mahela Jayawardene. Two " massive wickets " as Man-of-the-Match Corey Anderson termed them . Since returning to the team in October 2014 for two home games against South Africa , Vettori had taken six wickets in 11 ODIs. While his strike-rate was 96 , he had a fine economy rate of 4.38 to show for coming into Saturday 's World Cup opener. During the five ODIs he played against Sri Lanka at home recently , his economy rate was 4.30. But he didnt have a single wicket to show for . Come the big day , on a pitch on which New Zealand made 331 and Sri Lankan left-arm spinner Rangana Herath bowled nine overs for 37 , Vettori brought all his craftiness to the fore. Brendon McCullum introduced him in the 11th over , with Sri Lanka 46 without loss. He began flat , and the openers steered and glided him. It was ordinary stuff , nothing major and there was not much Vettori could expect to purchase from the surface. But his line was good , middle and off for the most . And then , boom. Sixth ball of his second over , he had Dilshan pop the simplest of catches back. Offer accepted , high-fives all around and back to his mark. Over the next eight overs , bowled in two spells of 3-0-14-1 and 6-0-20-1 , the master hammered away at Sri Lanka 's required rate and psyche . As Anderson revealed , getting Vettori into the attack when Jayawardene came to the crease at the start of the 23rd over was part of plan. And it paid off brilliantly as he dismissed Jayawardene for a duck - though the fault was all the experienced batsman 's. After three successive dot balls , Jayawardene feathered a catch to Luke Ronchi behind the stumps. A nothing shot , but what a difference to both teams and the scorecard. Sri Lanka were 125 for 3 and New Zealand had their tails up . " Dan 's got him out numerous times and it paid off for us , " said Anderson. " He 's just a clever bowler. You 'd love him to bowl more than ten but he ca n't. Especially on that wicket , it was holding quite a bit and it was tough to get away the spinners. He bowled unbelievably. " The next six overs from Vettori consisted mostly of flighted deliveries , skidders and arm-balls. Again , nothing extravagant. Just smart , stump-to-stump bowling to a set field. Good cricket. Crafty cricket. Can you really expect more from a wizened 35-year-old ? Of his last 36 balls bowled , Vettori conceded just one four , a couple , two wides and 11 singles . " He 's just so good , " said Anderson. " It 's pretty easy to sum him up. He 's played a lot of cricket , he 's smart , he knows how to get guys out. Was it 2/34 he got ? That put them [ Sri Lanka ] on the back foot and they had to try and take apart the other guys , and it was pretty difficult to do when Tim , Trent and Milne are firing like they are. It was obviously great to see Dan bowl like that , getting a couple of wickets , and he 's always pretty low on the old economy rate. " Pace is expected to dominate spin by a big margin in the World Cup , but Vettori has shown that he and his art will have a key role to play , particularly in the middle overs. This is his fifth World Cup. He has been in two semi-finals. He will be 36 if New Zealand make the World Cup final. The dream flickers. Vettori has bit longer to drag his body . © Cricbuzz Tags
