Young boys remind sub-continental fans that it is just a game Adelaide , Sat , Feb 14 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Saturday , 14 February , 2015 , 08 : 19 AM Fans had a chance to click photographs with cricketers from India and Pakistan in Adelaide on Saturday . India take on Pakistan in Adelaide on February 15 . Fans got a chance to meet the Indian and Pakistani players in Adelaide on Saturday. ( Photo Credits - G Rajaraman ) . © Cricbuzz It was easy to envy the two 10-year-old boys as they hung around together , getting autographs and having their parents click their photographs with cricketers from India and Pakistan. As they waited for Pakistan allrounder Shahid Afridi to return from the changing room and sign their autograph books , they kept themselves busy . Of Indian and Pakistani origin , Aarav and Zayn sported the respective team 's shirt and cap. They chatted nineteen to the dozen , ran back to the flight of stairs leading to the West Stand at the Adelaide Oval ; they ran back to put their feet on the barricades , now leaning back and now standing tall . Having apparently run out of things to do , the Adelaide-based Aarav did something very spontaneous and beautiful. He removed the India cap he was wearing and replaced it with the Pakistan cap that covered Zayn 's head. And , he placed his India cap on the head of his friend from Dubai who he had met at lunch an hour or so earlier . The 10-year-old lads are innocent to being partisan , let alone jingoistic. They seemed unaware of all the excitement that the older generations of Indians and Pakistanis were buzzing with. They remained unaffected by all the talk of former players like Imran Khan and Javagal Srinath about the pressure that the rivalry between the teams could bring to bear on the players . Of course , it remains to be seen what impact Sunday 's game has on them. For , the intensity of such a contest the greatest Derby in the modern game can strike tender hearts and cause them to sway. It would be tough for them to look at the next India-Pakistan meeting as dispassionately . Two young fans dwell on the hype surrounding the India-Pakistan match. Photo credit - G Rajaraman. © Cricbuzz Aarav and Zayn were not the only one 's practicing bonhomie and camaraderie. As sub-continental fans from around the world arrived in this lovely South Australian city , you could see the spirit of sportsmanship and brotherhood permeate the atmosphere through the day as the teams prepared to meet in a World Cup outside India for the first time since 2003 . As the Indian team trooped in for nets , India 's most photographed cricket fan , Sudhir Chaudhury was at hand to wave the Tricolour and blow a conch shell in welcome. Soon enough , he was joined by Lahore 's Pakistan-flag waving Bilal and his son. It was a sight to behold as the flags of the two nations painted rich colours in the stands . Kaashif , his brother and his ageing father have flown in from Karachi via Sydney as much to watch MS Dhoni and Virat Kohli as Shahid Afridi and Ahmed Shehzad. Aanshul Gulati reached the Oval , jetlagged after a long haul from Seattle , and was posing for photographs with Kaashif and his family. There was also a young couple , colleagues in a software firm in London , which spent Valentine Day , watching the Indian team at training . Long after the two sides got back to their hotel across the River Torrens , fans of both teams were celebrating the chance to come together as one , damning barbed wire fencing , unmindful of the shelling inflicted on border villages. The fans danced , not just because the TV cameras were focusing on them but also because the festival spirit was in the air . Yet , on a day when the display of friendship between fans of both teams was reaching a high , Aarav and Zayn were , in their own way , reminding everyone that the game is simply beautiful. But , do n't we know that even the most mature of minds will shed logic for a few hours as the sub-continent comes to a standstill on a high-voltage Sunday . © Cricbuzz Tags
