Christchurch , Sat , Feb 14 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Saturday , 14 February , 2015 , 08 : 24 AM McCullum leads his team out of the field after a thumping win against the Lankans. © Getty New Zealand 's dressing room exchanges before the start of game one of the World Cup did not feature a lengthy pep talk from their skipper , but whatever was said by Brendon McCullum left an impression. The home team lost the toss and were asked to bat by Sri Lankan captain Angelo Mathews , and thereon began New Zealand 's path to a 98-run win in front of 17,228 fans at Hagley Park . Giving the team a fantastic start was McCullum , who put away his first two balls to the boundary and maintained that tempo during his stroke-filled 49-ball 65. After a middle-order wobble , allrounder Corey Anderson 's 75 off 46 balls helped take the total to 331 , far too much for a weary Sri Lanka. New Zealand were relieved to get this match out of the way , given how much it had been hyped up and prepared for , and speaking to the media after collecting his Man-of-the-Match award , Anderson felt there was probably no better way to start a home World Cup . " We led into the tournament with plenty of confidence and some good wins under our belt , but we obviously knew that it all meant nothing come today. To put on a performance like that and get points was really good , " he said. " We 're excited for the win. We know it 's early stages of the tournament , our first game , a long road to go before we can start looking at making the quarters. We 'll take everything in our stride and celebrate the win today , then push on for Scotland. But yeah , it puts us in a great position. Obviously taking down Sri Lanka - they always perform well at World Cups and at tournaments - is a nice feeling . Anderson had special words for McCullum , whose leadership has come under much praise and whose fifty turbo-charged New Zealand 's innings. " He does have a massive calming influence on the dressing room. I guess we all know that in big events he really turns it on , " he said. " I guess the same with today as well , we came out of the gates. He spoke to us the day before the game and he said he was n't going to give us a motivational speech. It 's nothing that we needed to hear , it was treated as another game of cricket and go about our work and keep doing what we 've begun as a juggernaut to keep rolling forward , and that 's what we did. It is what it is , but Brendon 's been inspirational and it 's always nice to have him on our side rather than somebody else 's. " A critical aspect of victory was the way McCullum and Anderson played Lasith Malinga at the start and end of their innings. Facing the slinger in his first ODI since August , McCullum made a resounding statement by hitting Malinga for four fours and six in the eighth over. Malinga , after conceding 42 in four wicketless overs , did not return until the 38th over. When he did , he targeted the blockhole and was hard to get away for the most , but Anderson 's use of his crease and an angled bat smartly ensured that runs ticked over. On comeback , Malinga finished with 0 for 84 in ten overs , his fourth most expensive match ever . " I was lucky enough to face him at Mumbai quite a bit in the net , so it 's always a lot easier to sort of read that kind of bowling , " said Anderson. " It 's pretty tough when you 're reading it for the first time. But he 's only a couple of games back from ankle surgery , as well. He 'll be better for that run he hit today , as well , and we 're probably lucky we faced him early on in the tournament , as well. I can imagine he can start tearing a few teams apart later on , so I guess it 's nice to sort of get him out of the way for now. " The win was not without blemish , however , for at one stage New Zealand had lost the well-set Kane Williamson and Ross Taylor in the space of two balls to legspinner Jeevan Mendis just before the batting Powerplay. That left Anderson and Grant Elliott yet to score a run. What followed was a smart , steadying partnership of 65 in 10.1 overs. That passage of sensible play , Anderson felt , was an extension of the good work New Zealand have put in over the past year . " I think we 've always been put in positions over the last 12 months to be able to adapt to what we have to deal with , " he said. " It 's obvious that everyone has had a good dig in the middle and everyone has chipped in with runs as well , so we 've all played our part. I guess it 's just about knowing that situation that you 're in. It 's always nice to have someone like Grant who 's out there and he 's older and played a lot of cricket. It 's just one of those things , you obviously put the team first and you sum up the whole situation and go from there. " Next up , New Zealand move to Dunedin to play Scotland on February 17. It would be easy to term the result a foregone conclusion , but this team was not about to take their feet of the pedal in a low-key fixture. A match in October 2014 when Scotland came close to beating a New Zealand XI full of World Cup-bound players was on his mind , clearly , when he addressed the question . " It 's a World Cup. You know , I think you have to treat every game differently I mean , the same , sorry. It 's obviously a cliche. But I think we probably got put in our places a little bit in Lincoln when they did give us a run , " he said. " It showed us they 've got players that can play and bowlers who can bowl. We 'll have to be pretty switched on. We do n't want to be two or three down early on , otherwise we 'll be chasing our tails. Yeah , we 'll treat them as they are , a very good side , and go about our way. " References to Martin Crowe 's side at the 1992 World Cup , co-hosted by New Zealand and Australia , have been plenty in the past week here in the country. Anderson was only two years old at the time , but reading about that tournament and hearing of it from other New Zealand players left an impression. And , like McCullum had on the eve of this match , he too could not ignore the shadow of expectations . " That captivated a nation , and I know we 're going to try and do the same thing , but we want to do it in our own way , as well , " he said. " They had their way , and that 's what people remember them for , but we want to be remembered in our own way. If we can keep it rolling and keep the fans happy all New Zealanders love a winning team. If we can keep doing that , it 'll be good. " © Cricbuzz Tags
