Associates deserve to be in World Cups : Mommsen Dunedin , Sun , Feb 15 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Sunday , 15 February , 2015 , 05 : 29 AM Scotland skipper Preston Mommsen insists that the Associates deserve their place in the World Cup and could provide some shock results . Mommsen argued that cricket was being downsized . Scotland skipper Preston Mommsen has argued that lack of match experience with Full Member teams left them needing to overcome a huge challenge. © Getty Preston Mommsen , the Scotland captain , has reiterated his concerns about the ICC 's decision to reduce the number of teams involved in future tournaments because of the risk it brings to the growth and development of Associates . Since 2009 , Scotland have played just seven ODIs against a Full Member team as compared to 30 with fellow Associates. Scotland are playing their first World Cup after the 1999 and 2007 editions which produced eight straight defeats , and the lack of match experience with Full Members , felt the South Africa-born Mommsen , left them needing to overcome a huge challenge . " We 've had to adjust our preparation accordingly. In the last 12 months we would have preferred to play a lot more Full-Member ODIs , " he said at University Oval in Dunedin on Sunday ahead of Scotland 's game with New Zealand. " You look at some of the Full Member teams and the schedule that they have followed in that duration , and you ca n't compare our schedule with theirs. We have to deal with that. That New Zealand game [ a tour game in October ] was one of those games and we 'll call on those memories and hopefully that stands us in decent stead . " But it is an issue for all Associate nations , something that needs to be addressed - to try and make these games globally and give the Associate Nations a chance to learn and develop. Ireland , Holland and ourselves recently have shown what Associate teams are capable of when they come up against Full Members. Letting the Associate teams play against the big teams will make the game more powerful globally. " For the 2019 World Cup , only the top eight-ranked ODI teams will gain automatic entry but the participation of Associates team outside of Ireland and Afghanistan , who theoretically have a chance to quality via the ICC 's new ruling , seems slim. " I was very unhappy with that news , " said Mommsen. " We 're trying to stay in this moment of 2015 , which is a huge opportunity for us and not look too far ahead. In the time before there , hopefully people will realise that the decision is n't good for world cricket. My feelings are pretty strong on that. The World Cup is called a World Cup because it 's a global event , and by excluding nations that are trying to compete and trying to grow the game , is not very effective. " Ireland batsman Ed Joyce recently commented how he felt the World Cup was the only major sporting tournament that is shrinking. Asked if he had similar views , Mommsen agreed that cricket was being downsized. " That 's effectively what is happening. You are effectively having another Champions Trophy tournament which you may as well call Champions Trophy No 2 , " he said . Mommsen also felt that the inclusion of more teams in the ICC World Twenty20 could limit their chances of playing Test cricket. " Absolutely , they are pushing Associate teams further away from Test cricket by expanding the T20 game. Fifty-over cricket still requires a very high level to compete against Full Members , so you 've got to be on your game. Fifty-over expansion is crucial to growing the game and including everyone. " " We approach this tournament wanting to do as well as we can , and we 'll try to win every game. But we 're realistic about the opposition , " said Mommsen. " We 're playing against some world class players and Tuesday will be no different. The World Cup is such a small space for us , but that 's our opportunity to show the world what we are capable of. There 's no better way of doing that but through performances on the field. Hopefully , we can register that first World Cup win for us and that will give us the confidence and belief to go on and get two or three wins , and you never know then - we could find ourselves in a quarter-final. " Scotland are in Pool A along with New Zealand , co-hosts Australia , England , Sri Lanka , Bangladesh and Afghanistan. They begin their World Cup against New Zealand here on February 17 , coming off a massive 179-run win over Ireland , widely acknowledged as the best of the Associates , and a three-run loss to West Indies when chasing 314. Having watched New Zealand beat Sri Lanka in the World Cup opener on Saturday , Mommsen was aware of how tough it will be for Scotland at University Oval . " They were pretty clinical in the way that they played , and they 've played a lot of cricket recently and had quite a bit of success. They 've got some key men who deliver for them consistently , " he said. " We need things to go our way on the day , so hopefully a few of them can have an off day and hopefully a few of our guys can have days of our lives. Come the 100th over , hopefully we are still fighting and in with a chance. " Apart from the tactical skills of former Northern Districts , New Zealand A and New Zealand Under-19 coach Grant Bradburn , Scotland have the services of Paul Collingwood , the former England captain who joined the team at the World Cup Qualifiers in early 2014 , who had " an immediate effect " according to Mommsen. " He 's a very calm guy with huge experience. He has had successful tours of Australia and New Zealand and he brings that added value. He has greats insights into England , New Zealand and Australia having played for and against them , so he 's been very valuable , " he said . © Cricbuzz Tags
