West Indies face Ireland threat Sun , Feb 15 2015 Last updated on Sunday , 15 February , 2015 , 10 : 33 AM West Indies lead ODI head-to-head 4-0 , including two World Cup wins However , they were by beaten by Ireland last year in a T20 match Holder 's men ca n't take Ireland lightly. © Getty Let 's go back in time a bit. February 19 , 2014 was the date for the West Indies-Ireland T20 encounter in Jamaica. The Caribbean team , winner at the T20 World Cup in 2012 , failed to get going and was restricted to 116 for 8 , after which the Irish fashioned a six-wicket win in the last over . Cut to the 2015 World Cup , and both teams are ready again for Monday 's Pool B encounter at Nelson. The chances of an Irish upset are greater than they were in Jamaica , even if it 's a different format. What gives Ireland a lot of heart is West Indies ' recent form. Jason Holder 's men in the run-up to the tournament suffered a 4-1 ODI defeat to South Africa and then in both their warm-ups they gave a poor account of themselves. Against England , all they could manage was 122 and lost the match by nine wickets with 27.1 overs still to spare and against Scotland , they barely won : the victory margin of three runs despite scoring 313 for 9 spoke a great deal about how unconvincing their bowling was . Ireland were n't much convincing either in their warm-ups. They lost to Scotland by 179 runs after getting bowled out for a lowly 117 , but then they upset a Test-playing nation in Bangladesh as they chased down 190. If not their upset victory in 2014 , the one against Bangladesh will surely give Ireland a lot of confidence . Ireland 's chances of reaching the quarter-finals are next to impossible but they know that they can upset the apple carts of a few teams. West Indies are one of the vulnerable Test-playing nations and Ireland know that too. However , Holder was n't too worried. " They are not to be under-estimated but having said that , we are very confident , " he said on Sunday . " Obviously you go through tough times in your cricket and you just move on and take whatever you can from it . " We 're starting a new campaign and I think it 's important that we all put our minds on it and just go out and play some good cricket for West Indies. We 'll start from ball one and go out and play some hard , aggressive cricket. " If you thought that was confidence , hear out Ireland captain William Porterfield. " I do n't think it will be a surprise. We 've played enough cricket now and everyone knows everyone. There are not many teams that wo n't know much about the 15 lads who are in our squad , " he said . Clearly , both teams are fancying themselves on the high-scoring pitch at Nelson , but looking at the 4-0 ODI head-to-head in West Indies ' favour ( including two World Cup wins ) , there are no prizes for guessing as to who is heading into the match as favourites . Squads : Ireland : William Porterfield ( capt ) , Kevin O'Brien , John Mooney , Alex Cusack , Niall O'Brien ( wicketkeeper ) , Andrew McBrine , Ed Joyce , Max Sorensen , Andrew Balbirnie , Paul Stirling , Stuart Thompson , George Dockrell , Gary Wilson ( wk ) , Craig Young and Peter Chase West Indies : Jason Holder ( captain ) , Marlon Samuels , Sulieman Benn , Darren Bravo , Jonathan Carter , Sheldon Cottrell , Chris Gayle , Sunil Narine , Denesh Ramdin ( wk ) , Kemar Roach , Andre Russell , Darren Sammy , Lendl Simmons , Dwayne Smith , Jerome Taylor © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
