Kohli leads India 's mature batting display Adelaide , Sun , Feb 15 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Sunday , 15 February , 2015 , 07 : 39 AM India 's batsmen returned to form to make a powerful statement in the team 's opening group B game against Pakistan by posting 300/7 . Virat Kohli 's mature 107 was backed by half-centuries by Suresh Raina and Shikhar Dhawan , but lost their way in the last five overs . Virat Kohli completed a mature 107 , his 22nd ODI century , and shared century stands with Dhawan ( 73 ) and Suresh Raina ( 74 ) . © Getty The majesty and maturity of the Indian batting line-up , conspicuous by its absence in the recent weeks , returned to make a powerful statement in the team 's opening ICC Cricket World Cup group B game against Pakistan on Sunday at the charming Adelaide Oval , bathed in blue and green and soaking in south Asian sounds and flavours . Virat Kohli completed a mature 107 ( 126 balls , eight fours ) and shared century stands with left-handers Shikhar Dhawan ( 73 , 76 balls , seven fours , one six ) and Suresh Raina ( 74 , 56 balls , five fours , three sixes ) to help India finish with 300 for seven. Sohail Khan 's five for 55 on World Cup debut was impressive but Pakistan 's attack lacked penetration on a flat deck . India 's batsmen treated the crowd , a sea of blue T-shirts overwhelming those with green , with a display of sensible batting before unleashing savage strokeplay that enabled the team to control the pace of the game. But India 's bowling will also be challenged , though the nip in the air could help the faster bowlers find some swing . Pakistan erred in leaving out wicketkeeper Sarfraz Ahmed in their quest to include a fifth specialist bowler , legspinner Yasir Shah. The decision to make Umar Akmal wear the stumper 's mantle hurt the team as he dropped Virat Kohli when the Indian was batting on 76 , left-arm spinner Haris Sohail being the unfortunate bowler . Yasir was unable to make an impression on the Indian second-wicket pair with his brand of wrist spin. The 28-year-old was roped into the attack after a good outing against England in the warm-up game. Starting with a quiet over , he could do little to counter Dhawan and Kohli 's mastery , especially when the Indians waited till late or danced down the track to meet the ball . Quite surprisingly , though the legspinner had conceded seven runs an over , Misbah called him to bowl his eighth over at a time when India were looking to accelerate their scoring. Yasir ended up conceding 11 runs in the over , including a six to Raina. Worse , he may have had his confidence dented by Dhawan and Kohli . India skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's decision to send Suresh Raina ahead of Ajinkya Rahane paid off richly. India managed to keep the combination of left-handed batsman and right-handed batsman to pose extra problems to the Pakistan attack while ensuring that a vastly experienced man was at the crease when the batting Powerplay had to be taken . In a complete contrast to some of the recent games in which India have made a hash of batting in the Powerplay , Kohli and Raina ensured that no wickets would be lost while scoring at five runs an over. The Indian batsmen had taken up the challenge of posting a more than competitive score on the flat deck . It is not as if there was no display of nerves by the Indian batsmen. Dhawan took his time to settle down , edged a few and was beaten by some. Kohli 's eagerness to get going saw him play an aggressive square cut off Sohail Khan almost as soon as he walked in to bat when Rohit Sharma played early and offered a simple catch to mid-off in the eighth over . The manner in which the Indians calmed themselves , leading to successive century stands featuring Kohli with Dhawan and Raina respectively was admirable. However , India would concede that by scoring just 27 runs in the last five overs when they lost five wickets , they perhaps did not carry the score to beyond the realms of the competitive . © Cricbuzz Tags
