IPL 2015 auction : Current line-ups and what to expect Bengaluru , Sun , Feb 15 2015 by Gokul Gopal Last updated on Tuesday , 17 March , 2015 , 06 : 04 AM Released players such as Yuvraj Singh , Kevin Pietersen , Dinesh Karthik and Aaron Finch will be in demand during the auction for the 2015 edition of IPL . Big names such as Kane Williamson , Hashim Amla and Eoin Morgan , along with a host of Sri Lankan players , who are back in the mix after being ignored for the previous season , will also be hoping to be picked up by various franchises . Twelve marquee players , along with a host of overseas and domestic names , will be up for grabs during the IPL 2015 auction . Twelve marquee players , along with a host of overseas and domestic names , will be up for grabs during the IPL 2015 auction. © BCCL Released players such as Yuvraj Singh , Kevin Pietersen , Dinesh Karthik and Aaron Finch will be in demand during the auction for the 2015 edition of the Indian Premier League. Big names such as Kane Williamson , Hashim Amla and Eoin Morgan , along with a host of Sri Lankan players , who are back in the mix after being ignored for the previous season , will also be hoping to be picked up by various franchises when the bidding wars commence on February 16 in Bengaluru . Twelve marquee players , along with a host of overseas and domestic names , will be up for grabs. Below is the current composition of the eight franchises in terms of players present and purse available : Chennai Super Kings ( CSK ) Current squad - MS Dhoni , Ashish Nehra , Baba Aparajith , Brendon McCullum , Dwayne Bravo , Dwayne Smith , Faf du Plessis , Ishwar Pandey , Matt Henry , Mithun Manhas , Mohit Sharma , Pawan Negi , R Ashwin , Ravindra Jadeja , Samuel Badree , Suresh Raina , Ronit More . Overseas players quota available - 3 Total players quota available - 10 Amount available - Rs 4.8 crore Auction focus - Having released three overseas players , which includes two pacers and an allrounder , CSK will focus on bringing in similar replacements. The franchise is likely to target young overseas pacers , while they will also look to strengthen their domestic bench . Delhi Daredevils ( DD ) Current squad - Jean-Paul Duminy , Kedar Jadhav , Manoj Tiwary , Mohammed Shami , Nathan Coulter-Nile , Quinton De Kock , Saurabh Tiwary , Shahbaz Nadeem , Mayank Agarwal , Imran Tahir , Jayant Yadav . Overseas players quota available - 5 Total players quota available - 16 Amount available - Rs 39.75 crore Auction focus - Delhi Daredevils released as many as 13 players including big names such as Kevin Pietersen , Dinesh Karthik , Murali Vijay , Ross Taylor and Wayne Parnell among others. They will look at buying back some of these players at a cheaper price , while they are likely to be the biggest buyers in the 2015 auction as they require resources in all departments , having released close to 60 % of their 2014 squad . Kings XI Punjab ( KXIP ) Current squad - Axar Patel , Anureet Singh , Beuran Hendricks , David Miller , George Bailey , Glenn Maxwell , Gurkeerat Singh Mann , Karanveer Singh , Manan Vora , Mitchell Johnson , Parvinder Awana , Rishi Dhawan , Sandeep Sharma , Shardul Thakur , Shaun Marsh , Shivam Sharma , Thisara Perera , Virender Sehwag , Wriddhiman Saha . Overseas players quota available - 2 Total players quota available - 8 Amount available - Rs 12.6 crore Auction focus - KXIP decided to release Cheteshwar Pujara , L Balaji and Murali Kartik while Mandeep Singh left the franchise during the trading window. The Punjab outfit will look to strengthen their spin department while they will also look at roping in a couple of domestic batsmen . Kolkata Knight Riders ( KKR ) Current squad - Gautam Gambhir , Andre Russell , Chris Lynn , Kuldeep Yadav , Manish Pandey , Suryakumar Yadav , Morne Morkel , Patrick Cummins , Piyush Chawla , Robin Uthappa , Ryan ten Doeschate , Shakib Al Hasan , Sunil Narine , Umesh Yadav , Veer Pratap Singh , Yusuf Pathan . Overseas players quota available - 2 Total players quota available - 11 Amount available - Rs 13.20 crore Auction focus - Jacques Kallis ( who will join the team as mentor ) , Debabrata Das and Sayan Mondal were the players released by KKR , while Manvinder Bisla was traded off. While they do have a well-balanced squad , Kolkata will be looking at strengthening their spin bowling arsenal considering Sunil Narine 's problem with his action. The franchise will also be eyeing one or two quality overseas batsmen , apart from roping in some domestic names . Mumbai Indians ( MI ) Current squad - Rohit Sharma , Aditya Tare , Ambati Rayudu , Corey Anderson , Harbhajan Singh , Jasprit Bumrah , Josh Hazlewood , Keiron Pollard , Lasith Malinga , Marchant de Lange , Pawan Suyal , Shreyas Gopal , Lendl Simmons , Unmukt Chand , R Vinay Kumar , Parthiv Patel . Overseas players quota available - 3 Total players quota available - 11 Amount available - Rs 10 crore Auction focus - Michael Hussey , Zaheer Khan and Praveen Kumar were among ten players released by the MI franchise. By getting Unmukt Chand , Vinay Kumar and Parthiv Patel through the transfer window , Mumbai have added strength to their domestic lot of players , but they will look at adding some more big names to the ones already present in the squad. A couple of overseas players in both the batting and bowling departments is something Mumbai are likely to aim at , while they may also buy back some of the players they let go at a cheaper price and look at some domestic options . Rajasthan Royals ( RR ) Current squad - Shane Watson , Abhishek Nayar , Ajinkya Rahane , Ankit Nagendra Sharma , Ben Cutting , Deepak Hooda , Dhawal Kulkarni , Dishant Yagnik , James Faulkner , Kane Richardson , Karun Nair , Pravin Tambe , Rahul Tewatia , Rajat Bhatia , Sanju Samson , Steven Smith , Stuart Binny , Tim Southee , Vikramjeet Malik . Overseas players quota available - 3 Total players quota available - 8 Amount available - Rs 12.75 crore Auction focus - Rajasthan let go of Brad Hodge , along with a couple of domestic players , but they still have a pretty well-balanced squad. Having said that , the Jaipur-based franchise will be aiming at getting a couple of overseas players to join the likes of Shane Watson , Steven Smith and James Faulkner. They will be mainly looking at strengthening their top order , while a couple of spin options will also be something RR will look to get from the auction . Royal Challengers Bangalore ( RCB ) Current squad - Virat Kohli , AB de Villers , Chris Gayle , Mitchell Starc , Nic Maddinson , Varun Aaron , Yuzvendra Singh Chahal , Rilee Rossouw , Vijay Zol , Yogesh Takawale , Abu Nechim Ahmed , Harshal Patel , Ashoke Dinda , Sandeep Warrier , Manvinder Bisla , Iqbal Abdullah . Overseas players quota available - 4 Total players quota available - 10 Amount available - Rs 20.80 crore Auction focus - Seven players were released by RCB , which includes Yuvraj Singh , who the franchise bought for a whopping sum of Rs 14 crore in the 2014 auction. His release , along with that of Muttiah Muralitharan , Ravi Rampaul , and Albie Morkel , has left the Vijay Mallya-owned outfit with the third largest purse in the 2015 auction. It is reported that Yuraj Singh could be bought back at a lesser price , while RCB would also like to cover all bases by buying domestic and overseas players to fill in the gaps in all departments. Adding more strength to the top order is likely to be the franchise 's focus , while they will also be on the lookout for a couple of spinners . Sunrisers Hyderabad ( SRH ) Current squad - Shikhar Dhawan , Ashish Reddy , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Chama Milind , Dale Steyn , David Warner , Ishant Sharma , Karn Sharma , KL Rahul , Moises Henriques , Naman Ojha , Parveez Rasool , Ricky Bhui . Overseas players quota available - 6 Total players quota available - 14 Amount available - Rs 21.05 crore Auction focus - Aaron Finch , Amit Mishra , Darren Sammy and Irfan Pathan were some of the big names the Sunrisers let go when they released as many as 11 players. The overseas presence is currently minimal in the team , and they will look to get some big names from other countries , while they may even buy back the likes of Finch and Sammy. Not only that , SRH also need some solid domestic players to fill in the gaps in all departments . © Cricbuzz
