Big-ticket game puts Adelaide 's Fringe Festival in shade Adelaide , Sun , Feb 15 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Sunday , 15 February , 2015 , 11 : 01 AM The Adelaide Oval saw a sell-out crowd. © Getty This laidback South Australian city prides itself on being host to the largest arts festival in the southern hemisphere , the Fringe Festival over 24 days in February and March. But , on Sunday , Adelaide experienced something for the first time - a subcontinental festival of cricket with thousands of Indian and Pakistani fans for company . It is a good wager that the Adelaide Oval , home of the Southern Redbacks cricket team and Adelaide Crows Football Club and scene of some great contests , would never have heard the roar of a full house as it did on Sunday during the iconic India-Pakistan match in the ICC Cricket World Cup . It will be a better wager that Adelaide would not have seen as many cricket revellers party through a Saturday night on its streets , wake up early to reach the city 's beloved Oval by the river Torrens and celebrate the opportunity to watch a big-ticket cricket contest . With little else to do and with anticipation gnawing them from daybreak , hundreds turned up at the stadium gates long before they were due to be opened. They trekked or drove from hotels and motels from far and near , cranking up their emotions with team colour and nationalistic chants . They made sure that the local denizen would be aware of the big match in the World Cup. Only a week ago , when India played Australia in a warm-up game to free gates at the Adelaide Oval , the ground presented an empty look and the city had not quite warmed itself up to the World Cup. But this Sunday was different . Image courtesy : G Rajaraman The South Plaza , the Oval 's main entrance on War Memorial Drive , was a beehive of activity. A veritable South Asian festival of music and dance was being held there , a sea of humanity finding itself interesting things to do in the FanZone . Cricket fans posed for photographs with complete strangers , DJs Sunil and Charan belted out popular tracks from both nations ; enthusiasts , unmindful of a harsh sun beating down on them , were on their toes. And , significantly , while supporting their favourite teams unabashedly , fans of a team wished their counterparts luck and went along to find their allotted seats . With Indian supporters outnumbering Pakistani fans and with Virat Kohli , Shikhar Dhawan and Suresh Raina as well as the oft-criticised bowlers turning on the heat , it was inevitable that they raised the loudest cheer. If there was some way the collective voice of a crowd could be converted to energy , the stadium 's floodlights could have been powered by that . In the event , Adelaide had to settle for a unique South Asian experience. South Australia Tourism Commission was not complaining , though. With tournament sponsors entertaining hundreds with match tickets and hospitality , Adelaide home base of the Indian cricket team at the World Cup would have raked in a few dollars , to say the least . The fans will party through the night , joined by their friends who support Pakistan. The city will face a hangover on Monday , the heady concoction brewed by the contest ensuring that. But , with its airport buzzing with departures and the highways leading out to Sydney and Melbourne , Adelaide can start paying more attention to its very on Fringe Festival . © Cricbuzz
