Faulkner ruled out of Bangladesh clash Brisbane , Mon , Feb 16 2015 Last updated on Monday , 16 February , 2015 , 02 : 42 AM James Faulkner has been ruled out the game against Bangladesh in Brisbane on February 21 . The allrounder said that there is an outside chance that he might feature in the clash against New Zealand . Michael Clarke is expected to feature in the game against Bangladesh . James Faulkner sustained a side strain during the tri-series final against England and is racing against time to be fully fit. © AFP James Faulkner has ruled him himself out of Australia 's second league game in the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup against Bangladesh in Brisbane on February 21. Faulkner , who sustained a side strain during the tri-series final against England in Perth at the start of the month , missed the opening game against England at the MCG but said that he is close to returning to full fitness . The allrounder said there is an outside chance that he might feature in the clash against New Zealand on February 28 in Auckland. When asked when would be full fit , Faulkner replied that he is asking the question himself . Speaking to reporters , he said , " I 'm no chance for Bangladesh , I can tell you that. Time 's sort of flown a bit , but hopefully I 'm back sooner rather than later. " In Faulkner 's absence , Mitchell Marsh put in a sterling performance in the MCG game where he chipped in with 23 and picked up his maiden five-wicket haul in ODIs. However , Faulkner believes there 's room for both in the playing XI . " I do n't think we 're actually fighting for the same sort of spot , we 're different players. Mitch has always been a batter and his overs have been handy. I know he 's working hard on his bowling and he got some rewards the other day. I think we can both definitely play in the same team and we have a few games so far so there 's no reason we ca n't continue , " he asserted . With Marsh doing well and Faulkner on the way to full fitness , the pressure is on Shane Watson to deliver following a failure in the game against England. However , Faulkner pointed out that there have been occasions where the trio of allrounders have played in the same team . " The beauty about the Australian set-up is it 's such a strong squad that there will be competitions for spots. That 's a great thing for Australian cricket and a great thing for the whole team , you 've got to really be on your toes and when given a chance you 've got to grab it with both hands , " he said . Faulkner expects to resume bowling at some stage but due to the nature of side strains , there was uncertainty about his return. He also said that there was no fitness deadline given to him. " Hopefully the rehab I 've done with the medical staff has kept me in good shape for what 's to come , " he added . Michael Clarke , who is recovering from a hamstring injury , is expected to come back in the Australian team for the game against Bangladesh in Brisbane . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
