344 players are set to go under the hammer in the auctions today Delhi Daredevils are expected to be the biggest buyers this season . Frantic buys : Teams vie for final spots Juan Theron was snapped up by Rajasthan Royals for INR 30 lakhs Eklavya Dwivedi is taken by Chennai Super Kings for INR 10 lakhs Aiden Blizzard is taken by Mumbai Indians for INR 10 lakhs Nathan Reardon : His base price was INR 50 lakhs and he remains unsold Akash Bhandari remains unsold Vijay Trivedi. Rajasthan Royals open the bid for INR 10 lakh and he is sold to the team . Conclusion : That ends the IPL 2015 auctions. As usual there was big money shelled out. Yuvraj Singh was the costliest buy at Rs 16 Crore by Delhi. The unknown KC Cariappa went for Rs 2.5 Crore to KKR , who took a punt on the spinner after getting him in for trials last year. That was the biggest surprise of the auction. Zaheer Khan and Irfan Pathan did not attract bids initially but were eventually picked up . A few big names did not attract any bid , a few players went back to teams that they had played for before and a few others will feature in the IPL for the first time. We 'll leave you with the final squads right here . Thanks for joining us today ! I had my best years under Gary Kirsten and looking forward to playing under him - Yuvraj Singh after he was bought by Delhi for a whopping Rs 16 Crores © Getty Kumar Sangakkara : Sangakkara remains unsold He is brought back in the final round of the auction and he remains unsold Last phase : The teams will be given a sheet to fill in not more than three names each to be brought back into the auction. The process will be repeated if needed after this . B Singh Saran : Sold to RR for Rs 10 Lakh Sold to Rajasthan at his base price KK Jiyaz : Sold to Delhi for Rs 10 Lakh No other bids apart from Delhi . Andrew Tye : Sold to CSK for Rs 20 Lakh Base price of Rs 20 Lakh. Only bidder was CSK for this fast bowler . Siddarth Kaul : Sold to SRH for Rs 10 Lakh Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs and SRH get him there. Another fast bowler for SRH . Fast bowlers : Munaf Patel , Amit Mishra , Pradeep Sangwan , Aniket Choudhary , Umar Nazir , Prashant Parameswaran , Vikas Tokas , Yuvraj Chudasama , Gurvinder Singh , Rajwinder Singh , Samad Fallah , Pankaj Jaswal , Ishwar Choudhary , Kshemal Waingankar , Poonam Poonia , Joel Paris and Nuwan Kulasekara went unsold . Abhimanyu Mithun : Sold to MI for Rs 30 Lakh Base Price of Rs 30 Lakh and Mumbai bag him at the same price Zaheer Khan : Sold to Delhi for Rs 4 Crore Base price of Rs 1 Crore Now Delhi and Mumbai kickstart the bidding. Only two teams interested in Zak. From being unsold in the first round to going to Delhi for Rs 4 Crore. Zak must be elated . Pratyush Singh : Sold to CSK for Rs 10 Lakhs Another player picked up at base price. Another leggie . Yogesh Golwalker : Sold to KXIP for Rs 10 Lakh Another leg-spinner snapped up at his base price Next pool : Varun Sood , Paul Valthaty , Krunal Pandya , Ankit Khushwah , Ankit Shastri , SV Trivedi , Vinay Choudary , Avinash Yadav unsold Hardik Pandya : Sold to MI for Rs 10 Lakh Only Mumbai bid for him . Dinesh Salunkhe : Sold to RR for Rs 10 Lakhs Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs and RR get this leg-spinner Prashant Padmanabhan : Sold to SRH for Rs 10 Lakhs SRH were the only interested party J Suchith : Sold to MI for Rs 10 Lakhs Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. MI get him at his base price Marcus Stoinis : Sold to Delhi for Rs 25 Lakhs Base price of Rs 20 Lakhs . CSK and DD were interested in this Australian. DD got him Vaibhav Rawal : Sold to KKR for Rs 10 Lakhs Leg spinner sold to KKR at his base price. KKR happy about it again . Siddhesh Lad : Snapped up by MI for Rs 10 Lakhs Mumbai were again the only bidders for him Pardeep Sahu : Sold to RR for Rs 10 Lakhs The 29-year old leg-spinner was snapped by Rajasthan Royals . Albie Morkel : Sold to Delhi for Rs 30 Lakhs Base price of Rs 30 Lakhs and Delhi snap him up at the same price . Irfan Pathan : Sold to CSK for Rs 1.5 Crore Base price of Rs 1.5 Crore and CSK pick him up ! Must be a relief for Irfan . Nitish Rana : Sold to MI for Rs 10 Lakhs Only Mumbai bid for him and got him at the base price obviously . All-rounders : Robin Peterson and Azhar Mahmood were unsold. Ashok Menaria did not get a bid either . Shrikant Mundhe , Rush Kalaria , Harpeet Singh , Akash Bhandari , Suneel Raju , Gurinder Singh , Rohith Dahiya , Swarupam Purkayastha , Baba Indrajith did not get any takers . Kona Srikar Bharat : Sold to Delhi for Rs 10 Lakhs Only bidders were Delhi for this wicket-keeper and got him at his base price . Travis Head : Sold to Delhi for Rs 30 Lakhs Only Delhi bid for him and got him at his base price . Shishir Bhavane : Sold to RCB for Rs 10 Lakhs Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs . Got him for his base price as no one bid except RCB Ankush Bains : Sold to CSK for Rs 10 Lakhs Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. CSK were the only bidders and got him Sheldon Jackson : Sold to KKR for Rs 15 Lakhs Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs . CSK are interested in him. So are KKR and they bag him ! Batsmen : Accelerated auction Kumar Sangakkara comes up first in the accelerated auction list , but found no buyers . Michael Carberry and Alex Hales too remained unsold. So did Brad Hodge and Ross Taylor. Lukle Ronchi came up again but went without bids again . Aiden Blizzard suffered the same fate. T Suman did not attract a bid either. Smit Patel and Manpreet Juneja soon joined the list. So did Michael Klinger . Taruwar Kohli and Eklavya Dwivedi did not get any bids either. Neither did Ankit Bawne. No takers for Akhil Herwadkar , Prashant Naik , Sujit Nayak , Prashant Chopra , Nikhil Gangta , Craig Simmons , Arjit Gupta , Robin Bist , Praful Waghela . Purse left : DelhiDelhi Daredevils : 6.4 Crore Royal Challengers Bangalore : 2.1 Crore Kolkata Knight Riders : 9.45 Crore Mumbai Indians : 5.9 Crore Chennai Super Kings : 2.7 Crore Rajasthan Royals : 11.35 Crore Kings XI Punjab : 9.60 Crore Murali talks SRH strategy : Sri Lanka spin legend said Sunrisers Hyderabad 's strategy going into the IPL auctions was to look at players that they knew would not be courted by a majority of the teams. He added that they had targetted Kevin Pietersen from the beginning and were lucky to get him for his base price . Murali also added that SRH will not look at picking many more players , since they already have a good mix , but a potential target could be a young spinner as they are currently lacking in that department . Yuvi , Sammy react : Namaste Delhi ! @ DelhiDaredevils enjoyed playing for Rcb but now look forward to play under a very special man called gaza ! @ Gary_Kirsten — yuvraj singh ( @ YUVSTRONG12 ) February 16 , 2015 After a very disappointing # Worldcup match it was great to hear I 'm going to @ RCBTweets thanks to @ SunRisers for the opportunity last 2years — Darren Sammy ( @ darrensammy88 ) February 16 , 2015 Auction so far : Shreyas Iyer and KC Cariappa were the biggest stories of the auctions for uncapped players. The latter , in particular , will be under scrutiny from now. RCB and KKR have used up all their slots for overseas players . There will be a lunch break now after which there will be another round of auctions - an accelerated one at that. Join us for that at 03 : 00 PM IST . KC Cariappa : Sold to KKR for Rs 2.4 Crores Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs . KKR and Delhi go after this relatively unknown player. Not sure what their talent scouts have seen in him. Bid goes up to Rs 1.7 Crores ! This is crazy ! Cariappa has not played a single First class game or List A game ! He has featured in the Karnataka Premier League. That is all. Got to be one of the biggest stories of this auction . From 10 Lakhs to 2.4 Crores for Cariappa ! KKR are very happy about the buy . I 'm told that last season Cariappa was with the KKR as a video analyst for a short while... # Believeitornot — Aakash Chopra ( @ cricketaakash ) February 16 , 2015 Uncapped spinners : Ali Murtaza - Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. Unsold Mihir Hirwani ( son of Narendra Hirwani ) - Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. Unsold Akshay Wakhare - Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. Sold to Mumbai Indians at his base price Sarabjit Singh Ladda - Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. Unsold . Shadab Jakati - Base price of Rs 20 Lakhs. Unsold Bhargav Bhatt - Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. Unsold Rahil Shah - Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. Unsold Dominic Joseph Muthuswamy : Sold to Delhi for Rs 75 Lakhs Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs . MI and DD go after him. Both teams are quite keen to have this man. A little surprising this. Delhi have the upper hand at Rs 75 Lakhs. Sold ! Fast bowlers now : Andrew Tye - Base price of Rs 20 Lakhs. Unsold . Basil Thampy - Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. Unsold Krishnakant Upadhyay - Base price of Rs 20 Lakhs. Unsold Sreenath Aravind - Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. Unsold HS Sharath - Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. Unsold Rahul Shukla - Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. Unsold Amit Mishra ( fast bowler not the leg-spinner ) - Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. Unsold Pradeep Sangwan - Base price of Rs 20 Lakhs. Unsold Siddarth Kaul - Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. Unsold Jalaj Saxena : Sold to RCB for Rs 10 Lakhs Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs . RCB start the bidding. No further bids though Kevin O'Brien : Unsold Base price of Rs 30 Lakhs. No bids for the Irishman Ashok Menaria , Robbie Frylinck : Unsold Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. No bids Shirkant Mundhe : Unsold Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. no bids Sumit Narwal : Sold to KKR for Rs 10 Lakhs Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. KKR bag him at the base price Aditya Garhwal : Sold to KKR for Rs 25 Lakhs Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. Sold to KKR for Rs 25 Lakhs Sushant Marathe : Unsold Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. Unsold . Smit Patel : Unsold Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. No bids Nikhil Naik : Sold to KXIP for Rs 30 Lakhs Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. Plays for Maharashtra . MI and KXIP were interested. The latter bagged him in the end . CM Gautam : Sold to Delhi for Rs 20 Lakhs Base price of Rs 20 Lakhs for the Karnataka wicket-keeper. Delhi were the only bidders and bagged him. That 's a smart buy Uncapped wicket-keepers : Ben Dunk - Base price of Rs 30 Lakhs. Unsold Davy Jacobs - Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. Unsold Shreevats Goswami - Base price of Rs 30 Lakhs. Unsold . KB Arun Karthik - Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. Unsold . Amit Paunikar - Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. Unsold . Ankush Bains - Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. Unsold . Sarfraz Naushad Khan : Sold to RCB for Rs 50 Lakhs Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs for the 17-year old Mumbai batsman. The youngest player in the auction list . RCB and MI bid against each other. RCB snap him up eventually . More uncapped batsmen : Unsold Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. No bids for all of them . Sheldon Jackson , Mohnish Mishra , Debabrata Das , Yogesh Nagar , Aiden Blizzard, T Suman : Unsold Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs but no bids for him Hanuma Vihari : Sold to SRH for Rs 10 Lakhs Base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. SRH pick him at the base price . Shreyas Iyer : Sold to Delhi for Rs 2.6 Crores The Mumbai youngster has a base price of Rs 10 Lakhs. He has had a brilliant Ranji season this year . No surprises as MI and KKR start an intense bidding war. Bid is up to Rs 1.6 Crore now and is with KKR. Mumbai pull out and Delhi join in. Bid has already gone past Kevin Pietersen 's price in this auction ! Watch out for this young man. Will be hitting the headlines tomorrow for sure. Sold to Delhi ! Has to be one of the biggest gainers in this season . Auction so far : After some intense bidding for few of the marquee players , the auction went quiet as more players came up in the list. A lot of players went unsold in this round but they can come back in the auctions if requested. We will move on to the uncapped players list now after a small break . PURSE LEFT :
