In Dunedin , a slice of New Zealand 's sporting legacy Dunedin , Mon , Feb 16 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Saturday , 21 February , 2015 , 09 : 28 PM The New Zealand Sports Hall of Fame is a treasure trove of sporting history , with documentation of the country 's great sporting success stories as well as memorabilia . It contains information on approximately 200 sports men and women , representing 30 sports . A walk around the Hall of Fame shows up many unfamiliar names but who own their pride of place in the country 's sporting pantheon . I stumbled up New Zealand 's Sports Hall of Fame almost by accident , and am grateful that I did. I entered Dunedin 's spectacular Railway Station looking to inquire about travel information around the South Island , and an hour later I left the premises having learned a great deal from New Zealand 's foremost repository of sporting history . Situated on the first floor of the historic building , the Hall of Fame - which was inaugurated in 1990 - is a veritable treasure trove of New Zealand 's rich sporting success , with documentation of the country 's sporting achievements as well as memorabilia. It contains information on approximately 200 sports men and women , representing 30 sports , and among the prized possessions are armguards , kayaks , rugby balls , medals , stumps , rackets , hockey sticks , gloves , basketballs , running shoes , cricket bats and golf clubs . Members of past New Zealand cricket teams to be inducted here are Walter Hadlee , Jack Cowie , Bert Sutcliffe , Stewie Dempster , Daniel Reese , Martin Donnelly , Eric Tindill , Tom Lowry , Dick Motz , Richard Hadlee , John Reid , Ian Smith , Glenn Turner and Martin Crowe. The trivia snippets in the cricket corner add a nice touch - Don Bradman 's only innings against New Zealand was ended on 11 by two Hall of Famers , caught Eric Tindill bowled Jack Cowie - as do statistical nuggets , such as a run chart of Bert Sutcliffe 's 355 for Otago against Canterbury at Carisbrook from December 31 , 1949 to January 2 , 1950 . For an outsider , the sight of cricketing memorabilia and history is fun , but to learn a bit about New Zealand 's other great sports men and women and athletes is an education. A walk around the Hall of Fame introduces me to many , many unfamiliar names but who , obviously , own their pride of place in the country 's sporting pantheon . And so I get to know about Graeme Crosby , the former Grand Prix motorcycle racer who won two world titles and then " got on with his life " ; golf legend Sir Robert James Charles , the first Kiwi to be admitted to the World Golf Hall of Fame ; Anthony Wilding , New Zealand 's most successful tennis player who was killed in action in May 1915 while serving with a British armoured car unit in northern France ; the squash champion Ross Norman , who in 1986 did the impossible by beating Pakistani great Jehangir Khan in Toulouse , and since dubbed the 'Iron Man ' on the international squash circuit ( the Adidas racket with which Norman beat Khan rests in a glass case ) ; his compatriot Susan Devoy , a four-time world champion who held the women 's world crown at the same time as Norman did the men 's title ; swimmer Malcolm Champion , the first New Zealander to win an Olympic gold medal . George Smith , an All Black who helped form league rugby in New Zealand and who was also a national sprint champion and rode a winner of a New Zealand Cup ; Donald Oliver , the greatest weightlifter from New Zealand ; Stanley Hill , the country 's best basketball player ; motorbike racer Ivan Mauger , whose 1979 Factory Jawa , from when he won the world individual championship and world team championships , stands intact in the Hall of Fame ; and Geoffrey Bowen , who took shearing out of the woodsheds and turned it into public entertainment by shearing a world record 456 ewes in nine hours in 1953 . There is , of course , a space dedicated to Sir Edmund Hillary who , climbing with Sherpa Tenzing Norgay , was the first person to reach the summit of Mt Everest the world 's highest mountain. Among the quotes on view from the legendary New Zealander is this gem , uttered to fellow climber George Low on descending the summit on May 29 , 1953 : " Well George , we knocked the bastard off. " There is space dedicated to motor racing great Bruce McLaren as well , who in 1959 , at the age of 22 , was the world 's youngest F1 Grand Prix winner and first from New Zealand. McClaren 's name lives on in the form of team McLaren , one of the most successful in F1 with its cars and drivers having won 20 world championship titles . These are but a few of the names one can learn about in the Hall of Fame. There are many , many more. Adding to the allure of this unique place are the pieces of memorabilia donated by these great men and women. " I went around asking many of them if they would kindly give us some part of their rich sporting legacies , and it is great that they agreed , " says Ron Palenski , a former journalist and author of several books on New Zealand 's history and sports who is the chief executive of the Hall of Fame . " The process of inductions general takes place every two to three years and it is entirely on merit , obviously. There is a panel of nine that decides the inductees , who can be nominated by anyone. The form for that is available here in the Hall of Fame. With such a rich heritage of sports here in New Zealand , the need to honour and maintain it was very important. " Palenski can list off the achievements of New Zealand 's sporting greats without pausing , and though a rugby fan first , he cherishes the success of Black Caps cricketers inducted into the Hall of Fame. " We are a small country , and to produce so many world class cricketers is amazing , " he says . So who does Palenksi see being inducted from cricket next ? " Brendon McCullum , the way he 's going. " © Cricbuzz
