IPL 2015 auctions - Who is KC Cariappa , KKR 's mystery spinner Mon , Feb 16 2015 by Ganesh Chandrasekaran Last updated on Tuesday , 17 March , 2015 , 06 : 08 AM Cariappa played for Bijapur Bulls in the Karnataka Premier League. © BCCL KC Cariappa , a relatively unknown spinner from Karnataka , was one of the biggest surprises in the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) 2015 auctions. Cariappa , who played in the Karnataka Premier League , has not played a First-Class or List A match as yet but attracted a bid of Rs 2.4 Crores from Kolkata Knight Riders ( KKR ) at the auction event being held in Bangalore , India. His base price was just Rs 10 Lakhs. KKR and Delhi were involved in an intense bidding war with the former emerging victorious . Not surprisingly , Cariappa became the talk of the nation in minutes. So just who is Cariappa ? For starters , he is a 20-year old ( not 34 as was the misconception ) mystery-spinner known to bowl leg-spin predominantly in the domestic circuit . Incidentally , Cariappa had undergone trials with KKR before the CLT20 last year. Talking to cricbuzz , the 20-year old spinner explained how KKR showed so much interest in him . " I went for the trials with KKR before the CLT20 last year. I was a 'net ' bowler there. They were impressed and asked me to give my name for the IPL auctions. So I did , " he said . Cariappa believes that it is the Karnataka Premier League ( KPL ) that shot him to fame. The T20 tournament played between franchises in Karnataka was telecast on national television last year. Cariappa played for Bijapur Bulls in that tournament and picked up 11 wickets at an economy rate of 6 . " It is all because of the KPL. It was telecast on Sony Six. I picked up the wicket of Manish Pandey there. I think KKR called me up for trials after seeing that tournament , " he said. He also clarified that he was not a video analyst for KKR as was speculated after the news broke out . The spinner played a lot of tennis ball tournaments before playing for Social Cricket Club in Bangalore. Tournaments like those are quite famous in South India and he went on to play in the KPL after that. He also played for Karnataka U-19 and was in the probables list for Karnataka 's Ranji Trophy squad . Despite giving his name for the auctions , Cariappa did not carry high hopes . " Honestly , I never expected so much to be bid on me. I thought I might be picked up for Rs 10 Lakhs ( his base price ) . I do n't know how to react to this. My family is so thrilled with the news. Right now my house is crowded with so many people wishing me well , " said a thrilled Cariappa . The IPL auction is known to throw up many surprises. There have been various players who have shot to fame despite not having played First class games. Rajasthan Royals ' Pravin Tambe is a prime example. Franchises employ talent scouts to look out for players in tournaments across the world. Kolkata Knight Riders might be hampered if Sunil Narine does not clear his suspect action in time . Venky Mysore of KKR said that Cariappa had impressed many players including the likes of Jacques Kallis. Even Ricky Ponting called him the Sunil Narine of Indian cricket . When asked if the price paid was too much , Mysore said , " People asked us the same question when we bought Sunil Narine. I ca n't comment on that. It is a big opportunity for Cariappa. The nature of the auction is such that we ca n't control the price. Let us see how he performs. " Obviously , they have seen enough of Cariappa to be sufficiently impressed. Only time will tell if he does go on to become a star . IPL , as always , continues to live up to its reputation of throwing up unknown players into the limelight . © Cricbuzz
