No feeling better than soaking atmosphere at an India-Pakistan game Adelaide , Mon , Feb 16 2015 Last updated on Monday , 16 February , 2015 , 01 : 53 PM Adelaide got the opportunity to host one of the World Cup 's biggest rivalries. © Getty A smaller city compared to Sydney and Melbourne , Adelaide got the opportunity to host one of the World Cup 's biggest rivalries , India vs Pakistan. And it responded magnificently . From cab drivers to Government of South Australia , everyone was swept by the flamboyance and the passion of fans backing the two countries. Every hotel , every flight into Adelaide was sold out to the point where the State Government had to keep the airport open for fans to stay the night after the game . I almost did not come to the game , and it is fair to say that it could have easily turned into a huge regret. But thanks to a dear friend , my decision to come to the World Cup earlier than I had planned did not go to waste . The Adelaide Oval is a sentimental place for a cricket fan. Standing under the huge sign that reads 'Sir Donald Bradman Stand ' and having the opportunity to speak to a " John Spencer " , who is a retired civil engineer and whose wife is a member of the SACA , was an experience in itself . He had watched Bradman play live at the historic ground and I can not think of any cricket fan that I know who could boast of having that honour. The game also presented the opportunity for the local cricket fans to experience the electricity and passion that an India-Pakistan game brings and which I thoroughly enjoyed . India played a fantastic game , looking sharp and hungry. It is also fair to say that the Indian team enjoys the energy that a sea of blue , loud , cricket-crazy fans bring to the game , especially in an outnumbering situation. Virat Kohli , Shikhar Dhawan , Suresh Raina , and R Ashwin clearly seemed to riding the wave of electricity that the fans brought to the game last night. I was of the opinion that Pakistan would make this a much closer contest than it ended up being and that 300 was about 20 runs short . Kohli batted like a dream , held the innings together and Raina took the momentum away from Pakistan before Sohail Khan bowled exceptionally well at the death to pull the game back into some kind of balance. As the Pakistani chase stuttered , however , their fans looked more desolate at the lack of fight . As an avid Seattle Seahawks fan and being at the receiving end of losing a game we should have won , I can sympathise with their pain and confusion. It is hard to come to terms with a loss against your arch rivals to begin with but to add a lack of fight from their team was like rubbing salt in . We Indian fans know how to celebrate in style before , during and after the game. However I have to hand it to the Pakistani fans for the grace with which they accepted their loss and even joined in the fun post-game. I hope that we do the same if ever the tables are turned. My interaction with the Pakistani fans both before and after the game was memorable and I am happy I have some incredible memories to take away . India may still run into Pakistan in the knockout but if that happens , I can safely say of behalf of all Indian fans that we will be ready , louder and noisier. This may also hold true depending on how the Indian team progresses in the tournament. And , if the team continues to play the way it did on Sunday , the belief in the team will grow and so will the voice of the Indian fan . It 's onto South Africa now against whom India have never won a World Cup game. If ever there was a polarity between two cricket games , this is it but until next Sunday in Melbourne , I will let the joy of a win against Pakistan sink in and enjoy it to the fullest. I can already tell you that there is no feeling like that . ( Aanshul Gulati flew in from Seattle to soak in the atmosphere of the India-Pakistan game in the World Cup. Though he knows nothing will match the intensity of this game , he will watch a number of games and stay on till the final on March 29 ) . © Cricbuzz
