India focus on rest and recovery ahead of another big game Melbourne , Mon , Feb 16 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Monday , 16 February , 2015 , 02 : 22 PM India 's next opponents are South Africa , one of the favourites to win the tournament. © Getty Indian cricket fans partied through Sunday night on Adelaide 's Hindley Street and its adjacent lanes , persuading local police to let them revel with music , dance and the Tricolour. Cricket fans elsewhere were squabbling - either with fans of the other team or , as it happened in Delhi , with airline officials . But the men who sparked the celebrations with a victory over Pakistan in the ICC Cricket World Cup slipped in rest mode , not stirring out of the team hotel. Those who were at the hotel to see them troop in after the win said the players did not spend time in the lobby but headed to the elevators to get to their floor . A morning flight to Melbourne - venue of the India 's next Group B game against powerful South Africa - was on the cards and , after a draining game , it is unlikely that the team would have done much more than pack bags , leave them outside their rooms for the baggage masters to collect , spend a few moments speaking with family and friends before crashing to sleep . Since India 's next game is only on February 22 , the squad is scheduled to be on a rest and recovery mode for two days. For a team in which most players have been in Australia for a long time now , it will be crucial for the support staff to ensure that the XI men taking the field are fresh and eager . It is important for India to secure a victory against one of the strongest teams in these conditions to take a big step towards securing the top spot in the group. It is just as well that the Indian team has time to rest and recover from the emotionally-draining game against Pakistan and , subsequently , prepare for the second successive big game . Former players will always clamour for the team to be seen as practicing more but the modern mantra is to train smart. The evolution of training methods has meant that squads now do a lot of work done away from the cricket fields and away from cameras. And , that does not necessarily mean that players are spending time at the gym , toning up their muscles . Though the World Cup format allows the world 's top eight cricket nations to make it to the quarterfinals that start nearly a month later , it is important India play their best cricket and ensure that they finish on top of the group. It is for this reason that Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's squad , like some Australian teams of the past , must play each game as if it is their last . Having used the tri-series and the two warm-up games against Australia and Afghanistan to fine-tune some aspects of their game , the Indian team came out all guns blazing to play a near-spotless match against Pakistan. Such intensity is usually hard to replicate but Dhoni achieved that in 2011 when his team won the semi-final and the final . The moot question is : with an apparently limited bowling attack that concedes runs at the start of the innings , can India ramp up the intensity to be able to get the better of South Africa ? After all , South Africa is one of the teams that has the better combination for the conditions in Australia and a side that is determined to make a strong statement with the quality of its cricket . © Cricbuzz
