Fan report : If it 's India v Pakistan , it 's got ta be a party Adelaide , Mon , Feb 16 2015 Last updated on Tuesday , 17 February , 2015 , 06 : 06 AM The walk to Adelaide Oval was electric , with Indian music playing and fans getting into party mode . The exit from the stadium was like a Punjabi wedding baaraat . For a few hours , chicken tandoori would become the local dish of choice , and for a few hours , everyone would bleed blue . Fans gathered at the ground hours before the India v Pakistan clash. ( Photo courtesy Shabad Thadani ) © Cricbuzz India versus Pakistan at the World Cup is arguably the biggest game of the tournament , even if neither team makes the final , or even the knock-out stages. A day when even the most apathetic Indian cricket fans rediscover their crumpled Sahara jerseys , their patriotism and their hashtag skills. A day when every common Indian ( and likely every Pakistani ) becomes a selector , commentator and technique coach in equal parts. A day when productivity in India drops to all-time lows , and Nielsen ratings for Sony Six rise above the dust particulate index measures in New Delhi. A day when Ajay Jadeja 's Google quotient goes up 20x versus any other in the year . Billions around the world sit captivated to their TVs , or to their sketchy-at-best laptop feeds , cheering every dot ball and every run as if they were out in the middle themselves. This year was no different , well , barring the fact that India would be playing this contest for the first time without the mercurial Tendulkar in their ranks . Much had been made of India 's perfect 5-0 record against their arch rivals on the biggest stage , and I certainly did n't want to witness their first loss. Nor did the any of the other 40,000-odd Indian diaspora that had flown into otherwise-sleepy Adelaide for this blockbuster clash. Safe to say the locals had never seen anything like this , though Burger King was well prepared , putting a veggie burger on the menu for the weekend. But back to the cricket , first game of the World Cup for both teams , in the smallest stadium in the country and a run-fest was on the cards . The walk to the stadium was electric. Whistles , vuvuzelas and flags were commonplace , as were the feisty " Jeetega bhai jeetega , India jeetega " chants ! For the most part , the fans were cordial , but there were still the odd sinister glares being shot at the men in green. We got to the ground two hours before and quickly decided to relinquish the nosebleed seats we had , taking up unassigned seats on the grassy knoll in front of the old scoreboard instead . MS Dhoni won the toss and elected to bat , much to the excitement of the now swelling crowd. Whether or not we lucked into the bar 10 feet behind us is debatable , but fortune favours the brave , and having sneaked in to a section dominated by blue , a cold beer felt like a just reward . Rohit and Dhawan got off to a steady but ordinary start , before Rohit decided to pull a ball that got big on him , lifting a sitter to Misbah at mid-off. Eerie silence fell around the Indian fans in the crowd...momentarily . Cometh the hour , cometh the man. Enter superstar Virat Kohli , the current bedrock of the Indian batting lineup. Few remember his integral role in the 2011 win , when he was a young ( but brash ) rookie finding his feet in the midst of the Tendulkar and Sehwag eras . Fast forward four years , the brashness remains , the tattoos have doubled , the now-out-in-the-open relationship with Bollywood actress Anushka Sharma has earned him fans and critics in equal number , and the new haircut has spawned millions of copycats across the country. But with it all , Kohli brings with him a career average of 52 , a hundreds conversion ratio that puts him on track to pass the legend Sachin himself , and a reputation in world cricket as one of the best chasers in history . Shrugging off a recent rough patch of form , Kohli rose to the occasion and held the innings together , crafting a gritty but brilliant hundred ; the first for either side in this storied World Cup rivalry. A calculated knock that was circumspect and classy in equal measures , and just what India needed. A second quick wicket would likely have spelt disaster. First Dhawan and then especially Raina played dependable foils , taking calculated risks as India pressed ahead with wickets in hand. Eventually , we posted a respectable 300 , a good total if offered at the toss , but one that we felt was 20-25 runs short given the small ground and the unpredictability of one 19-year old Shahid Afridi . Pakistan 's chase was erratic , with Umesh Yadav picking up a couple of key early wickets and the likes of Raina and Rahane flinging themselves across the turf to save every run. India managed breakthroughs at regular intervals , with the oft-maligned fast bowling attack of Yadav , Shami and Mohit Sharma all chipping in , never allowing a partnership to settle. The under-fire Dhoni did an above par job , marshaling his resources well and setting aggressive fields that backed his bowlers , instead of retreating into a defensive shell as he has been known to do . Finally , after a now customary onslaught from Misbah that rattled some nerves , Pakistan fell a full 76 runs short. India now stands at a Roger Federer-esque 6-0 over their neighbours , and the party , taunts and naughty fireworks ads will live on for another four years . The exit from the stadium was like a Punjabi wedding baaraat - dhols being played , men , women and children showing off their best bhangra moves. The quaint train station began to resemble Mumbai 's historic VT station , pouring out blue-clad fans by the hundreds as people made the short walk back to the city centre.Traffic came to a grinding halt , with people waving tricolor flags in the middle of the road as if they were chequered flags at the Monaco Grand Prix . The adrenaline was flowing , the nerves now replaced by a sense of relief and pride. For a few hours , bars would belt out 'London Thumukda ' and 'Balam Pichkari ' , even if they were the Avicii or Calvin Harris remixes. For a few hours , chicken tandoori would become the local dish of choice , and for a few hours , everyone would bleed blue . Jeetega ( we will win ) had become jeet gaya ( we have won ) . So as I walked along Rundle Mall with my friends , surrounded by exuberant Indian fans numbering 10,000 strong , I unfolded the small piece of paper from my pocket , and added my dear Pakistani friend 's phone number back into my address book. Till 2019. . ( Shabad Thadani lives in Hong Kong and moonlights as an infrequent travel and sports blogger in his limited spare time. He has come a long way from watching cricket in the basement of a cold house in Ohio. ) © Cricbuzz
