New Zealand scrape to victory over Scotland Dunedin , Tue , Feb 17 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Tuesday , 17 February , 2015 , 03 : 03 AM Trent Boult and Tim Southee were each on hat-tricks in the first five overs . Matt Machan and Richie Berrington hit fifties in a recovering stand of 97 . Chasing 143 , New Zealand lost wickets to big shots . Corey Anderson 's three wickets helped keep Scotland to 143 , but his batting was part of a disappointing New Zealand chase. © Getty In a city that derives its name from the Gaelic word for Edinburgh , the deep Scottish roots of Dunedin did not provide a big enough lift to the Scotland cricket team on Tuesday at University Oval - though they will wonder what a few more runs could have done to New Zealand , who threw away wickets at will in an ultimately successful chase of 143 . Put in to bat on a day local residents rightly predicted would remain sunny and clear , Scotland lost four wickets in the first 26 deliveries of the World Cup 's sixth match , then recovered thanks to Matt Machan and Richie Berrington , only to lose 6 for 33 and end on 142 in 36.2 overs. Iain Wardlaw had New Zealand 's openers caught behind in 37 minutes before the lunch break , and on resumption the hosts ' haphazard attempt to finish the chase in a hurry saw five wickets fall . It was a tough day with the bat for Scotland , who had five batsman registering zeroes ( four were golden ducks ) for an unwanted record. There were 50 dot balls during the first ten overs , reflective of the grip that Trent Boult and Tim Southee had on Scotland 's batsmen , and both new-ball bowlers found themselves on hat-tricks in this period , Boult in fact with his first two balls bowled in the match. Five of the six boundaries scored in the first 15 overs were off the bat of Machan , who entered at 2 for 1 in the second over to the sound of bagpipes , then looked on as that became a perilous 12 for 4 , but held his composure to score a solid 56 that lifted the score past 100 . First ball of the second over , Boult thudded one into Callum MacLeod 's pads , the batsman beaten for pace and inwards movement as he pushed down the wrong line. Dead as a dodo. Next ball , Hamish Gardiner out lbw to a sharp inswinger that was only going on to hit the stumps. Scotland 1 for 2. The ball was moving at pace. New Zealand had their tails up. The crowd , largely partisan despite the sounds of bagpipes playing , could sense something dramatic . Machan averted the hat-trick but Scotland 's hope was short-lived. First ball of the fifth over , Kyle Coetzer chipped Southee towards silly mid-on where Grant Elliott dived and took the offering. Enter skipper Preston Mommsen , who first ball a pitched up delivery that angled in and clipped the pads. Southee won the appeal , Mommsen reviewed it , and was soon on his way. Scotland 12 for 4 in 26 deliveries . Machan was strong defensively as well as on the front-foot drive , a shot which fetched him three fours off Boult , including consecutive punches either side of Brendon McCullum at mid-off in the 12th over. Both boundaries were understandably appreciated by the few Scotland fans in the stands , and after the over the refrains of The Foundations ' 'Build Me Up Buttercup ' tried to build up the mood further . Richie Berrington , his partner in a stabilising stand of 97 in 23.3 overs , grew in fluency the more time he spent at the crease. Southee 's second spell was costly , Machan driving four and lapping six over fine leg and Berrington cutting and thrashing through the off side to lift Scottish spirits. Machan 's fifty came up in 71 balls with a single off Daniel Vettori , whose next ball disappeared over the commentator 's box as Berrington shimmied down the track . It was Corey Anderson who snapped the dangerous partnership when Machan , on 56 , top-edged a pull shot and was taken at mid-on by a diving McCullum. Berrington was on 47 at the time and fell immediately after getting to fifty , as a top edge off Anderson settled in fine leg 's hands. Anderson struck immediately after the drinks break when Mathew Cross feathered a catch to Luke Ronchi , and from here Scotland collapsed to 142 with Vettori pocketing 3/24. While the raw pace of Boult and Southee had left Scotland 's top order in knots , the crafty variations in pace from Vettori proved too much for the tail . In reply , Martin Guptill was prized out for 17 by Wardlaw in the third over and McCullum - put down on five by Gardiner at deep midwicket , for 15 in the seventh. The trend of loose shots outside off stump accounted for the wickets of Williamson for 38 and Elliott for 29 , while Ross Taylor 's crude heave towards deep midwicket off Majid Haq found a catcher. Anderson , dropped five by Wardlaw at deep fine leg , failed to curb his enthusiasm and top-edged the persevering Josh Davey to the same region. Luke Ronchi was the seventh to fall , also to impetuosity , and the manner of victory should rankle New Zealand . Brief scores : New Zealand 146/7 in 24.5 overs ( Kane Williamson 38 , Ian Wardlaw 3/50 , Josh Davey 3/40 ) beat Scotland 142 in 36.2 overs ( Matt Machan 56 , Richie Berrington 50 , Corey Anderson 3/18 , Daniel Vettori 3/24 ) by three wickets © Cricbuzz Tags
