Sloppy New Zealand avoid banana peel Dunedin , Tue , Feb 17 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Tuesday , 17 February , 2015 , 05 : 16 AM New Zealand scraped to a three-wicket win against Scotland Scotland had New Zealand 's number for the second time in four months Trent Boult was named Man of the Match for figures of 2 for 21 in six overs New Zealand will wonder how their approach transformed so dramatically between innings. © Getty For the second time in four months , Scotland gave New Zealand a fright. In October , they pushed a New Zealand XI with World Cup-bound players within one run of victory. Preston Mommsen , the Scotland captain , spoke of that tour match as a point of reference and inspiration on consecutive days leading into this match in Dunedin. Come the big day , they took seven New Zealand wickets with only 142 to defend. Had it not been for a couple of dropped catches , Mommsen 's team could have been experiencing something similar to what Ireland had yesterday , even though their skipper William Porterfield argued that it was not an upset . While fast bowler Trent Boult , Man of the Match for figures of 2 for 21 in six overs , chose to stick to the bottom line that New Zealand had won and taken points into their next game , the manner of victory would have left an impression on the dressing room. New Zealand cricket teams are not known to talk themselves up , and through McCullum 's press interactions over the last ten days he repeatedly stressed on how his side was not getting carried away . Tuesday was a sobering reminder. Having done excellently to bowl out Scotland for 142 in 36.2 overs , New Zealand 's batsmen came and went in a series of loose dismissals before eventually scraping to a three-wicket win. Yes , there were a whopping 151 deliveries left , but losing seven wickets was shabby . To what can we attribute that collapse to - that brazen attempt to finish off a small chase ? Most likely , overconfidence. Taking nothing away from the accurate and probing Iain Wardlaw , who found a bit of movement under the hot afternoon sun , Martin Guptill and Brendon McCullum feathered leaden-footed catches to wicketkeeper Matthew Cross. Kane Williamson , New Zealand 's pillar of consistency , flashed his bat at width in what was probably his sloppiest dismissal of late. Ross Taylor pulled out that ungainly mow across the stumps. Grant Elliott pushed with hard hands , Corey Anderson and Luke Ronchi went out trying to play the hero shot . With a few more runs on the board - and they really should have got to 220 after the stabilising partnership that Matt Machan and Richie Berrington put on - it could have been so different for Scotland . It is not that New Zealand have not been in tricky situations during their recent run of form that has had journalists and fans in the country talking up their World Cup chances. In their first ODI of 2015 , chasing 219 against Sri Lanka in Christchurch , they went from 0 for 1 to 63 for 2 to 101 for 5 before Anderson and Nathan McCullum dragged them to a three-wicket win. At Seddon Park , following Brendon McCullum 's dismissal for a blazing century , they went from 158 for 3 in the 31st over to 185 for 7 and eventually 248 all out in 50. Right here at University Oval last month , Sri Lanka had them at 93 for 5 before Elliott and Ronchi put on a record-breaking 267 that propelled the total to 360 for 5 . Today they survived because the target was low , but New Zealand will be shaken up a bit , never mind what Boult said after the match. McCullum was fully aware of the threat Scotland posed. He spoke before this game of how on the day , both teams started afresh. New Zealand were coming off a 98-run win over Sri Lanka in Christchurch , an extension of form that saw them beat the tourists 2-0 in the Tests and 4-2 in the ODIs. Scotland had hammered Ireland and narrowly lost to West Indies at the SCG last week. It was a mismatch on paper , but New Zealand had to be wary of the proverbial banana peel . Tougher tests lie ahead against England , Australia and Bangladesh , but New Zealand will hope that banana peel has been safely avoided . © Cricbuzz Tags
