It got a little scarier than we wanted : Boult Dunedin , Tue , Feb 17 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Tuesday , 17 February , 2015 , 05 : 28 AM Boult was named Man of the Match for his two for 21 New Zealand are now on top of Pool A with four points Boult was picked up by Sunrisers Hyderabad for a $ 800,000 IPL price-tag on Monday Trent Boult was on the money from the word go , picking up two wickets in his very first over © Getty Trent Boult , Man of the Match in New Zealand 's three-wicket win over Scotland , has admitted to the home team being a bit nervous watching wickets fall during a chase of 143 at the University Oval on Tuesday. The win has put New Zealand on top of Pool A with four points , and according to the fast bowler their focus was firmly on their next game . Excerpts from his post-match press conference . On New Zealand 's nervous chase It got a little scarier than we wanted , I guess. When I 'm rushing around the changing room trying to check the pairs on it , it means we might be in a little bit of trouble. But , yeah , in the end we got the points and we got the job done , so , yeah , pretty satisfying. Seven [ wickets ] put us in a position that we did n't really want to be in. But like I said , a lot of credit is due to Scotland for asking the questions of us. And it shows you the way the game can go. If you build the pressure in the right areas , you can upset anyone on any day. But like I said , we got there in the end and the guys are really happy , and we 'll move on to Friday night now . On whether this will effect New Zealand going forward I do n't think so. Yeah , I reckon the Scots bowled really well. They came out there and gave it everything , and knew they could try to defend us , and , yeah , put some decent pressure on us. So I do n't think it will be two phases of batting in it. We got the job done , like I said , and we got the points. Let 's move on to Friday . On his bowling performance Like I said , it did swing around nicely and just managed to get the line right , and asked some good questions of their batsmen. Yeah , [ it ] kicked off with a bit of a bang there. And I thought Timmy [ Tim Southee ] bowled well to chip in with two wickets and that set us up pretty nicely. It was okay. Like I said , a good start. Had some good questions throughout my spell. [ I 'm ] very happy to contribute to the team performance overall. So , yeah . On New Zealand 's bowling as a whole I said in the post-match before that we felt it swung around really nicely , and [ got ] some good assistance from the wicket as well. Yeah , as a unit we bowled pretty well. I thought we got the ball to swing and got a decent score - bowled out for 143. We knew there was some batting to be done , we got put under some pressure by some bowlers and eventually got there . On New Zealand choosing to bowl I 'm not sure. Brendon [ McCullum ] could probably answer that better than me , but we saw there was some grayness in the wicket. We knew it was going to swing , so why not put them under pressure ? So we started nicely , and they kicked back nicely and got through to 143. But like I said , we 're happy we got the job done . On his $ 800,000 IPL price tag It 's just nice to be out there assisting or contributing to a bowling performance. As a unit we stuck together pretty nicely , and it 's nice that everyone put their hand up and helped in some way and got that win . On following the IPL auction via the internet It was pretty exciting. You can imagine sitting around a computer screen with a couple of your mates and not really knowing what was going to happen. Yeah , it was pretty exciting there for a couple of minutes. I 'm not too sure if it 's settled in with me yet , but , yeah , pretty exciting opportunity coming up. I do n't know what the confidence level was. It was a unique experience , and something I felt I had no control over. Yeah , put my name into an auction almost a couple months ago and then you just let it happen. So myself and Tim , and Ronch [ Luke Ronchi ] and Kane [ Williamson ] were actually sitting around. Yeah , obviously it seemed to happen pretty quickly , and like I said it was exciting . On what his team-mates told him after the auction The guys were pretty elated for me. Everyone 's pretty close and tight-knit in the group. It was pretty special to share with a couple of mates and to go through something like that because it really is a once-in-a-lifetime thing. It was exciting , but I guess the focus is still on the World Cup , there is no doubt about that. There is a lot of cricket to be played between now and then , and that is definitely my focus . On his career graph I suppose everyone knows that cricket is my passion and there is no doubt about that. There 's nothing better than winning a Test match and a Test-match series with the black cap on. Yeah , this World Cup was always going to be a big goal of mine and something I 'd love to be involved in. I felt like I put a lot of focus into the white ball and the game with the white ball in the background. So it 's nice to be contributing , like I said , and to get some accolades like I have recently is something that I was n't necessarily expecting. But yeah , we 'll focus on that when that comes . © Cricbuzz Tags
