Bangladesh eye winning start against Afghanistan Tue , Feb 17 2015 Last updated on Tuesday , 17 February , 2015 , 10 : 48 AM Afghanistan make their debut at Canberra and would look to impress against Bangladesh in their Pool A fixture Bangladesh 's stay as an ICC Full Member has been filled with disappointments , intertwined with the odd success The biggest headache for Bangladesh would be to find the right balance of fast bowlers and spinners. © AFP The sleepy town of Canberra will be shaken out of its slumber when the World Cup party reaches the Manuka Oval , which hosts the Pool A fixture between Bangladesh and Afghanistan. They may not be cream of the subcontinent but both teams are capable of putting up eye-catching performances in the hope to make a winning start to their campaign . While Afghanistan make their debut at Canberra and would look to impress , Bangladesh 's stay as an ICC Full Member has been filled with disappointments intertwined with the odd success. Mashrafe Mortaza 's men would look to invoke their 2007 campaign where they upset India in the tournament opener , and a winning start here would go a long way in boosting their confidence . Venue : Manuka Oval , Canberra Weather : Mostly sunny with a high of 28 degrees Team news Bangladesh Bangladesh lost both their warm-up games in the lead-up to the tournament to Pakistan and Ireland , and their second defeat would have hurt them more. Bangladesh 's short batsmen would be wary of Afghanistan 's fast bowlers who can generate good pace and bounce and a hard Manuka Oval pitch would assist their kind of bowling . After losing both their warm-up matches , the biggest problem for Bangladesh would be to find the right balance of fast bowlers and spinners , as they are used to playing a slew of spinners on turning pitches at home. Mortaza would need to shepherd a promising but green pace attack with Taskin Ahmed set to partner him , and a battle for the third seamer in Rubel Hossain or Al-Amin Hossain to follow . On the batting front , seniors Shakib Al Hasan and Mushfiqur Rahim would be hoping they get solid support from the top order and not let the pressure fall on them to revive the innings . Probable XI : 1. Anamul Haque , 2. Tamim Iqbal , 3. Mominul Haque , 4. Soumya Sarkar/Mahmudullah , 5. Shakib Al Hasan , 6. Mushfiqur Rahim ( wk ) , 7. Nasir Hossain , 8. Mashrafe Mortaza ( capt ) , 9. Taijul Islam , 10. Taskin Ahmed , 11. Rubel Hossain/Al-Amin Hossain . Afghanistan Afghanistan do n't consider themselves to be the giant killers that a team like Ireland can turn out to be , but they sure are n't here to make up the numbers , as their coach Andy Moles had clearly said. Against India in their second warm-up game , their batsmen went after the 365-run target gamely and do n't need to look beyond Ireland 's performance against the West Indies for inspiration . Afghanistan would rely heavily on their bowlers to make quick inroads into the Bangladesh batting to limit them , and give themselves the best chance of going after their target . Probable XI : 1. Javed Ahmadi , 2. Usman Ghani , 3. Nawroz Mangal , 4. Asghar Stanikzai , 5. Samiullah Shenwari , 6. Mohammad Nabi ( capt ) , 7. Afsar Zazai ( wk ) , 8. Mirwais Ashraf , 9. Dawlat Zadran , 10. Hamid Hassan , 11. Shapoor Zadran . Watch out for While all the attention will be taken up by Shakib in the middle order , Mominul Haque has revelled in the No 3 position for his team and come up with some eye-catching performances. Although yet to score a century in ODI cricket , he averages 63 in Tests , pointing to a good future ahead for the stylish left-hander. Against a pace Afghanistan bowling attack he would have to play the anchor 's role and guide Bangladesh to a position of strength with the bat . Usman Ghani is just 17 but looked unperturbed against the likes of Mohammad Shami and Umesh Yadav in the warm-up game against India on his way to 44. Although he started explosively , Ghani settled into playing second-fiddle to No 3 Nawroz Mangal , who took over the senior batsman 's responsibility. Against Bangladesh , Ghani would come out all guns blazing as he is expected to at his age . Quotes " If they do [ win ] they 'll be dancing in the streets of Kandahar and Kabul and Jalalabad and wherever else , " said former Australian fast bowler Geoff Lawson , who coached the Afghanistan Under-19 team previously . Stats Afghanistan beat Bangladesh in the only time they squared off in an ODI during the Asia Cup in Dhaka last year . © Cricbuzz Tags
