Sourav Ganguly : It was an expected result in Adelaide Adelaide , Tue , Feb 17 2015 by Sourav Ganguly Last updated on Tuesday , 17 February , 2015 , 01 : 30 PM I never saw Pakistan beating India if India would have scored more than 230 The most striking difference between the two sides over a period of time is the leadership " Pakistan ca n't get past India in World Cups because India is a much more mentally-equipped side. " - Sourav Ganguly © AFP It was an expected result at the Adelaide Oval in the game against Pakistan and I am not surprised at all that India won convincingly. India 's one-day record against Pakistan in the World Cup continues to get better and it will keep getting better until Pakistan improve as an international side. What we saw on display at the ground was a pretty ordinary Pakistan performance and a very confident Indian team for the full 7-8 hours of the game . I had said that the World Cup would be a different kettle of fish. India were battered by Australia in the last two months but in this World Cup they wo n't be playing Australia all the time. It is a completely different ball game when you play Australia for two months and take on another side in a tournament , more so if that side is from the subcontinent. We talk about India coming to Australia and taking time to get used to the conditions , so a team like Pakistan would actually take more time to get used to the conditions. On paper , this Indian side is a much better team than the Pakistan team and as I said , I am not surprised with the result . The toss was a very crucial factor. Pakistan had to win the toss to get to a position to beat India because I never saw Pakistan beating India if India would have scored more than 230. That India did get to 300 meant the game was completely out of Pakistan 's hands. Yes , at the break it was discussed how Pakistan could get to the target , but deep inside none of us believed that Pakistan would actually get 300 . When you look at the two sides , I have always said the reason Pakistan ca n't get past India in World Cups is because India is a much more mentally-equipped side than Pakistan , and it has been the case for quite a while. Since the year 2003 , if you look at India-Pakistan games , India has had the upper hand and the most important reason for that is India are mentally far superior than Pakistan. They play sensibly , they approach the game sensibly and they take decisions under pressure in the right manner. That is the most important thing in an India-Pakistan contest - you have to take decisions under pressure thoughtfully and India outdoes Pakistan in that aspect every time . For me , the most striking difference between the two sides over a period of time is the leadership. Once again MS Dhoni was far ahead of Misbah-ul-Haq in terms of leadership. He looked confident , he knew exactly where his team was and what his team was despite being battered by Australia in the last two months. After the wicket of Shikhar Dhawan , Misbah just allowed India to collect and score at will. Suresh Raina came in and he just kept bowling spinners. When you keep bowling spinners to Suresh Raina at the start of the innings , you will exactly get what he delivered , every time you do that. Misbah was n't attacking enough , there were not any fielders in catching areas , especially when the frontline spinners were bowling - the likes of Afridi and Yasir Shah - and that allowed the Indian batsmen to collect . When Dhoni came in as captain when Pakistan were batting , he handled his spinners well. Ashwin always put pressure on the Pakistani batsmen with fielders in catching areas. Dhoni favours the leg-slip , sometimes we do n't understand why , and he continued to have the leg-slip even to the left-arm spinner against the Pakistani batsmen. There was the big difference in the way the Indian captain went about his job . The Indian fast bowlers also did a good job. They did to the Pakistani batsmen exactly what the Australia attack does to them when they go to Australia. They kept bowling short , they kept pushing the batsmen back on the back-foot and did n't allow them to hit through covers or plant their feet forward. That was a clear ploy and a ploy that will work against subcontinent teams on the Australian pitches . The Indian batting was a lot superior and that was expected as India have a good batting line-up , a much better batting line-up than Pakistan. Pakistan 's strength was their bowling , but India also outplayed them in the way they bowled. Yes , you can say getting 300 is a huge psychological advantage and it is. If Pakistan could have got 300 then the game could have been different for them. But , it was India batting first , they got 300 and the way the fast bowlers bowled after that , especially Mohammed Shami and Mohit Sharma , who were impressive. What was most impressive was the way Ravichandran Ashwin bowled. He changed his pace , bowled a lot slower than he did in the Test matches and was probably the best of the Indian bowlers in that game in Adelaide . Pakistan always had the reputation of producing good fast bowlers and good bowling attacks , but this is not the attack it used to be in the past. They were missing Saeed Ajmal and I think they made a mistake by picking an extra spinner against India. Another fast bowler could have helped them contain India . They have a lot to learn from this game because this group is wide open. Ireland went past West Indies , and they went past with ease. They looked a very good side in these conditions and they will be a force to reckon with. Teams like Pakistan and West Indies will have to be very careful against teams like Ireland and Zimbabwe. The loss of West Indies and the loss of Pakistan has thrown this group wide open . All the speculations on whether Pakistan can beat India were put to rest. India is a far superior side and unless Pakistan change the way they play and get in some good players , this Indian domination will continue . © Cricbuzz
