Afghanistan are making their World Cup debut Shakib Al Hasan and Mushfiqur Rahim scored fifties Bangladesh 's bowlers put in a clinical performance © Getty Victory : Bangladesh crush Afghanistan It went until the 43rd over but the result was a foregone conclusion once Afghanistan were reduced to 3/3. There was absolutely no fight left in them after those early blows. Afghanistan were much more impressive with the ball and restricted Bangladesh for large parts until Mushfiqur and Shakib counter-attacked. It was a good win for Bangladesh , who went on to celebrate it with a victory lap around the ground. That came as a surprise but it was just a way of thanking the numerous fans who had come out to support them. What must be more heartening for Bangladesh 's fans is that three of their senior most players - Mushfiqur , Shakib and Mortaza - set the tone with eye-catching performances in the first game. That will set the tone for the rest to follow . Sinking ship : Mohammad Nabi and Najibullah Zadran hung in for a while but Afghanistan never looked threatening at any stage. Shakib broke the stand getting rid of Zadran and Mortaza accounted for his counterpart in the very next over. Lasting the fifty overs will be Afghanistan 's only target from now. Even that looks highly unlikely. A shame really after showing promise with the ball. Bangladesh , though , have been clinical with the ball , never allowing the Afghans a breather. Good show . Trivia from a legendThe cricket itself was nothing spectacular so people looked around for other things to keep themselves amused Manuka Oval scoreboard named after JFingleton,gr8 tribute 2 gr8 writer/Test Crkter Irish/Australian/critic of Don Bradman & diplomat parExc ! — Bishan Bedi ( @ BishanBedi ) February 18 , 2015 One-way traffic : Afghanistan continue to struggle Nawroz Mangol made a steady 27 but Afghanistan needed a move on at some point. Mangol took a risk against Mahmudullah and smacked a shortish ball to deep square leg. Rubel Hossain got under the flat hit and tumbled to his left but latched on to the hard catch. Rubel was standing well inside the ropes as well and tumbled back after taking the catch. He ended up injuring himself there and looked very , very awkward while taking it. Had to walk off immediately . Samiullah Shenwari battled well for 41 and added 63 with Mangol. However , he too departed soon after - falling short while trying a quick second run. Afghanistan five down now and sinking rapidly . Domination : After all that fight shown with the ball , Afghanistan disappointed with a limp batting effort. Credit to Bangladesh and Mashrafe Mortaza though. The pressure was kept on relentlessly. Taskin Ahmed replaced Rubel Hossain after his first spell and kept the pressure on. The spinners coming in will only add more pressure. Not looking good for Afghanistan. This innings could be totally one-sided . Early strikes : Openers fall in succession Bangladesh could not have asked for a better start. Mortaza struck with the last ball of the first over to get Javed Ahmadi. The leading edge was snapped up by the captain himself. Rubel Hossain made it better as he nabbed Afsar Zazai off his first ball. Both openers departed off successive balls and Afghanistan faced a tall order now . Mortaza dented them further by getting Stanikzai to edge to first slip in the next over . Finish : Afghanistan keep a check Hamid Hassan got Sabbir Rehman too in his next over while Mushfiqur holed out to deep square leg off Nabi. Bangladesh pegged back again but Mashrafe Mortaza hammered consecutive boundaries to neutralise that. Bangladesh crossed 250 and already have a slight edge. They could have got a lot more but Afghanistan pulled things back superbly at the death. Bangladesh lost 5/34 in the last five overs. The last 10 balls of the innings yielded just 4 runs for 3 wickets. That gave Afghanistan some momentum before the break. A competitive total but not out of reach for Afghanistan. Should be an interesting chase . Fifties : Shakib got his fifty of 43 balls while Mushfiqur got his in 40. " 27th ODI fifty for Shakib in ODIs but none can be more important than this , " declared a clearly carried-away Matthew Hayden. Nevertheless , it was a good knock. Shakib did not get his timing right initially but had the presence of mind to turn the strike over to Mushfiqur. The wicket-keeper was in fine touch right from the outset. The duo scored at more than 7 runs per over and turned the heat on Afghanistan. After a brilliant start , Nabi 's men were finally put under some pressure and it began to show on their fielding. Misfields , silly overthrows and lack of discipline spread in the Afghan ranks. Not good . Shakib fell dragging on a Hassan slower delivery in the 44th over but he had done his job. 63 off 51 in 114-run stand was just what Bangladesh needed. They are well set to go all out in the last five now. Mushfiqur still the key . Predictable fight : Shakib Al Hasan and Mushfiqur Rahim put on a fifty-run stand off just 51 balls. Mushfiqur was the aggressor. They were also helped by the fact that the mandatory powerplay came in to effect in the 35th over. Nevertheless , this was just the sort of boost Bangladesh needed. The fans in the ground roared on for every ball that went to the outfield. Afghanistan could silence them with a wicket here or will be looking at a big total to chase. Intensity over 50 overs. That 's the key for Afghanistan . 48 runs came in the powerplay. Bangladesh were five short of 200 with 10 overs to go. The last 10 overs have bled runs in this World Cup. How much can Bangladesh make now ? Mominul and Mashrafe are capable of taking advantage in the end overs. Lots of runs in the offing . Penalised : Shenwari forced off the attack Samiullah Shenwari , Afghanistan 's leg-spinner , came in only in the 31st over. He was warned straightaway by umpire Steve Davis for running on the danger area on the pitch. Two official warnings and a bowler is taken off , according to the rules. Shenwari was guilty of doing it again in the next over and was promptly taken off by Davis. JShenwari had breached rules twice in just 7 balls. Nabi has some problems now. The leggie added good variety to the attack. This might just work in favour of Bangladesh. Both Shakib and Mushfiqur started briksly. They will be targeting a score close to 250 . Proves why he should be batting up STAT : Shakib Al Hasan ( 3991 * ) overtakes Tamim Iqbal to become the highest ODI run-getter for Bangladesh. # CWC15 # BANvAFG — Cricbuzz ( @ cricbuzz ) February 18 , 2015 Zadran strikes again : He bowled only 3 overs in his first spell and went wicket-less but Zadran 's introduction in the middle overs proved immensely fruitful for Afghanistan. Zadran went round the wicket to Mahmudullah and had him edging to the 'keeper for 23. Bangladesh were four down by the time their two best batsmen came to the crease. Shakib and Mushfiqur in now. Afghanistan have their tail up but if Bangladesh needed anyone to pick them up , it would have to be these two. Still a lot of hope left for them . Accuracy the key — cricketingview ( @ cricketingview ) February 18 , 2015 Intensity picks up : 25 runs in 2 overs and a wicket After a rather sedate period of play , the match suddenly came into life. 10 runs came off the 24th over while the next one yielded 15. It was Soumya Sarkar who upped the ante with a six and two fours in this period. However , Afghanistan nipped the fight in the bud. Shapoor Zadran was brought back into the attack and he struck getting rid of the dangerous Sarkar with a ball that nipped back in. Afghanistan were right back in control . Meandering middle overs : Bangladesh got only 21 singles in their first 72 runs. That 's 21 singles in 21 overs ! Clearly a problem there. The boundaries did dry up but Bangladesh are guilty of getting into a shell here. Soumya Sarkar and Mahmudullah continued in the same pattern as the openers. Agreed that Afghanistan have been accurate but with the field spread out , surely there are more singles on offer . By the way , Shakib Al Hasan and Mushfiqur Rahim should have come in earlier , no ? Batting order might need a re-think . Soundtrack for this match : Eye of the TigerThis song by Survivor will definitely be my pick for BG if this match was a movie. We already saw how Hassan reminded us of Stallone i.e Rocky. Bangladesh are Tigers , Afghanistan 's fighters...you get the drift And another : Mirwais gets both openers Anamul Haque soon followed Tamim into the hut. Mirwais was accurate as ever again. He got one to shape back in from just outside off. Anamul was walking across , missed and was struck on the back leg. The umpire had no doubt but Anamul went ahead and reviewed the decision. No luck there though. The impact was umpire 's call and Anamul had to depart . There comes the wicket : Tamim falls for 19 It had to come. Almost everyone sensed it. Tamim had taken 41 balls for his 19 and more importantly , had only two hits to the fence until then. Mirwais Ashraf did a splendid job of keeping the pressure on. He gave away only 6 runs in his first 20 balls. Ashraf kept it just around the off stump. Not great pace but accurate. Tamim finally tried to guide one down to third man but edged it close to the 'keeper. Afsar Zazai was alert enough to dive to his left and snap it up. Very good catch that. Bangladesh missed out on a 50-run opening stand by 3 runs. Afghanistan got their first World Cup wicket . Moving on : Afghanistan 's fast bowlers took a break after bowling 7 overs in tandem. Aftab Alam and Mirwais Ashraf came in after that. The former went for 11 in his first two overs prompting Nabi to bring himself in. That was the first time spin was introduced in the match as well. Bangladesh made 38 in the powerplay but did not lose any wickets. The problem has been kicking on from here. Afghanistan have done a good job of keeping the pressure on . Keeping a close eye on Tamim Iqbal now. He 's already been a little jittery and looking to take some risks to get the boundary. That itself is a good sign for Afghanistan . Hamid Hassan © Getty Flair : Afghanistan 's fast bowlers Afghanistan 's new-ball pair are a throwback to how fast bowlers used to be pictured , are n't they ? Zadran is built strong , has long hair and a longer run-up to match it. Puts in a lot of effort at the point of delivery. The speed gun says he bowls just under 140 kph but he gives an impression of being much quicker. Excellent sight. Hassan , on the other hand , has a more measured run-up. Gets excited easily , gets good bounce as well and wears a headband to boot. When did we last see a fast bowler with a headband ? Oh and I forgot to mention , Hassan has some paint on his face as well. War-paint for a warrior ? Or is that the Afghanistan flag ? Pictures not clear enough but clearly , Afghanistan 's fast bowlers look the part ! Match it up with wickets now . Just 24/0 after 8 overs. Afghanistan need to sustain this. Bangladesh will have to guard against panicking. Something 's got to give . Hassan and Shapoor > Lillee and Thomson. # CWC2015 # BANvsAFG — Russell Jackson ( @ rustyjacko ) February 18 , 2015 Great to see @ RealHamidHassan sporting his trademark headband for Afghanistan ! # CWC15 # BANvsAFG pic.twitter.com/aaxV5KokUB — Aust Cricketers Assn ( @ ACA_Players ) February 18 , 2015 Start : Hamid Hassan opened for Afghanistan after a pep talk from Mohammad Nabi in the huddle. Huge moment that for Afghanistan and world cricket as well. Afghanistan 's story is one to cherish. The team is not looking for any patronsing though. They have made it clear that they are there to compete. Even though Bangladesh 's fans were the louder contingent on the field , Afghanistan had healthy support as well . Shapoor Zadran started off with Hassan. The openers started watchfully even as Bangladesh 's fans egged them on. Not a full house at the Manuka Oval yet but a loud crowd nevertheless. Just going by that crowd in , you would not guess that the match is being played by two 'minnows. ' Good , fun setting . Tamim Iqbal survived a loud caught behind appeal in the third over. There was some sound as the ball passed the bat but Nabi decided not to review it. Both fast bowlers getting some disconcerting bounce early on . A neutral 's dilemma : — Geoff Lemon Sport ( @ GeoffLemonSport ) February 18 , 2015 © Getty Toss : Bangladesh opt to bat Mashrafe Mortaza chose to bat even as the Bangladesh fans cheered on loudly. He reckoned that the pitch will be a good one to bat on. Mohammad Nabi , Afghanistan 's skipper , was hopeful that his bowlers will get some reverse swing going Teams : Afghanistan ( Playing XI ) : Afsar Zazai ( w ) , Javed Ahmadi , Nawroz Mangal , Asghar Stanikzai , Samiullah Shenwari , Mohammad Nabi ( c ) , Najibullah Zadran , Mirwais Ashraf , Aftab Alam , Shapoor Zadran , Hamid Hassan Bangladesh ( Playing XI ) : Tamim Iqbal , Anamul Haque , Mominul Haque , Mushfiqur Rahim ( w ) , Sabbir Rahman , Shakib Al Hasan , Mahmudullah , Mashrafe Mortaza ( c ) , Soumya Sarkar , Rubel Hossain , Taskin Ahmed Build-up : Afghanistan will be making their World Cup debut and they will be the cynosure of all eyes. The team has already won a lot of hearts for the way they have fought out of trouble at home and come up and play spirited cricket. They have some good fast bowlers in their ranks as well and Bangladesh will not be taking them lightly . For a long while , Bangladesh have been categorised as minnows. They will be looking to shrug that tag off. One of the best ways to do it will be to put up a strong show against Afghanistan. There will be no shortage of support for Bangladesh. Their fans will be at the ground and backing the team whole-heartedly . © Cricbuzz
