Dunedin diary : Revelry , chocolates and a rolling peninsula Dunedin , Wed , Feb 18 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Wednesday , 18 February , 2015 , 08 : 46 AM " Are ya 'ere fer the crukit ? " A distinctly Irish accent. In Dunedin , known as the Edinburgh of the South. I give the man at the airport information kiosk a quizzical look and ask him where he 's from. He hears my accent and gives me a quizzical look and asks me where I 'm from. We swap stories and when he hears I am from India his eyes light up. " Hari Om ! Hari Om ! " he says , eager to inform me that he has travelled through India. " Aap ka naam kya hai ? " ( What is your name ? ) he asks a fellow Indian journalist. He is very happy to meet some Indians. The women standing next to him behind the counter , with Indonesian lineage , says she is a big fan of Salman Khan . What a start to my time in Dunedin . * * * Image credit : Jamie Alter Dunedin is a student city. The University of Otago has its home here , and it is the oldest university in the country , and the first medical school in the country. Having studied on a scenic liberal arts college in the American Midwest , and having spent time at others in the region as well as on the country 's east coast , I am at once at home in Dunedin. The students all around , the street-side cafes offering discounts , the guitar-strummers on the sidewalks and in the parks , the cheap stores , the second-hand clothes stores , the student discount offers , the vinyl records and dorm-room posters on sale . The University campus spreads across acres and acres. One of the attractions on it is the Forsyth Barr Stadium , the only permanently covered natural turf stadium in New Zealand. The stadium is across the road from University Oval , where World Cup games are being held , and the 30,000 capacity venue hosts rugby union , rugby league and football as well as entertainment and cultural events. Elton John , Paul Simon and Aerosmith have played here , and Rod Stewart and Neil Diamond are due here later in 2015 . The city has a reputation of being a student party capital , and signs of that are visible in the Sunday newspaper. " Party students blamed for leaving Dunedin street 'like the Third World ' " screams a headline , the accompanying photograph showing the popular Hyde Street littered with glass and rubbish after one of the semester 's first big parties. It does indeed look bad , with a reported 1,000 revellers having gone to town in Dunedin 's north end on Saturday night . Couch burning is big with students in New Zealand. More so here in Dunedin , I 'm told. The University of Otago students ' orientation week tradition of setting couches on fire often flares up and results in calls to the Dunedin fire crews. Not so long ago , I find out , one party got so raucous that a bunch of students - inebriated , no doubt - climbed the roof of a house and it collapsed. I ca n't imagine it 's pleasing to get a call from disturbed residents to come and douse fires and get the mess cleaned up. Then I think about the sick practice of 'ragging ' back in India , and figure it 's a lot less harmful . * * * Image credit : Jamie Alter Unlike Christchurch , which was hit hard by the 2011 earthquakes , Dunedin boasts one of the best preserved Victorian and Edwardian eras in the southern hemisphere. It is also known as the city of hills , and no visit here is complete without a visit up to Signal Hill , from where you can see the city of Dunedin and the harbour and surrounding hills . A drive up winding Lovelock Avenue , named after the runner Jack Lovelock who set a world record time at the 1936 Berlin Olympics for running the 1500 metres final in 3min 47.8sec , past rolling pastures and the Botanic Gardens takes you to the top , from where the view is breathtaking. A tourist attraction is also the bronze statue of 'Old Father History ' built to commemorate 100 years of British Sovereignty . * * * Image credit : Jamie Alter The Octagon is in the heart of Dunedin city and the place to start if you 're visiting. The place is full of restaurants , cafes , pubs , shops and other eateries. In the centre of the Octagon is a large statue of Scottish poet Robert Burns . Burns never set foot in Dunedin. In fact , he never came to New Zealand , nor did he pen a poem on the city. Common census is that because the founders of Dunedin were Scottish , and Burns a poet gaining fame back home at the time , the settlers erected a statue in his honour. Memories . Behind Burns ' statue is St Pauls , the Anglican Cathedral of Dunedin. Built in 1862-63 on land given by the pioneer businessman John Jones , it stands tall over the city and attracts the attention of many tourists. Down the road from the Octagon lies the historic Railway Station , Dunedin 's most celebrated building and regarded as the most photographed in New Zealand. It is indeed a stunning structure . The Railway Station was built in 1906 when Dunedin was the country 's leading commercial centre - this has since shifted to Auckland - and was restored in the late 1990s with the welcome addition of a landscaped garden in front of Anzac Square. Today , the historic building houses New Zealand 's Sports Hall of Fame , an art gallery and a restaurant . To the left , down Cumberland Street , is Cadbury World. Here , those with and without a sweet tooth can take guided tours around the Cadbury chocolate factory. While it nowhere near produces the amount of chocolate it did when the Hudson family founded it in 1930 - today the southern hemisphere 's chocolate is largely produced out of Hobart - the Cadbury factory is a major tourist attraction. Every year , in September , the city has a chocolate carnival during which 30,000 red Giant Jaffa lollies are sent down the top of Baldwin Street , the steepest in the world at a 38 degree angle , though a chute , with certain ones having prizes on them. That many chocolates hurtling towards eager spectators ? Willie Wonka would argue that you ca n't make it so easy for kids to get their paws on candy , but that 's a sight I 'd like to see. Talk about a sugar rush . * * * Image credit : Jamie Alter It 's the big game. India v Pakistan. Adelaide. THE match of the tournament , never mind where the two teams end up , according to countless Indians and Pakistanis. I 'm in the Octagon , sitting in a cafe/pub where three TV screens are showing the game , with two fellow Indian scribes and one Kiwi journalist. Three resident Indians join us at an adjacent table , one from Vasant Kunj in Delhi , one from Rohtak in Haryana and the third from Ferozpur in Punjab . " No Pakistanis here ? " asks one of the journalists . " Nope , but it would be good to have one here ! " laughs the Punjabi. At the time , India are 265-odd for two , looking at a big score. The guy from Vasant Kunj wagers India will get to 350. The other two reckon 325. India have eight wickets in hand and a little under six overs left. But soon Pakistan strike , and India limp to 300 for 7. Immediately the mood changes . " Why does n't Dhoni bat Ravindra Jadeja higher ? He 's a very good player ! " says the Haryanvi , throwing his hands in the air . " India will win , hands down , " says the Delhiite. " We 've got 300 , that 's plenty. " Indeed it is . Image credit : Jamie Alter " Are ya 'ere fer the crukit ? " This one is a definite Scottish accent. On a public bus in downtown Dunedin , sitting in the seat across from me. I say yes , and that I 'm headed to the University Oval. I ask him if he 's headed there too , sounding like a Scotsman . " Nah , only mad dogs and Englishmen go out in the mid-day sun. " Alright then . Turns out our man is indeed Scottish , but not here for the World Cup. " How d'ya get yer crust ? " he asks after a bit of silence . " Sorry ? " " How day 's get yer crust ? " Come again ? " He slows it down. " How. Do. You. Earn. A. Living ? " Ah , right. Crust. Bingo. Stupid me . I tell him I 'm a cricket reporter , etc etc. He nods. " Ca n't complain , can ya ? " The bus stops. He gets out , waves at me. " Good luck , mate. Mind the sun. Would n't want to get baked. " Mad dogs and Englishmen . * * * Image credit : Jamie Alter I am seated in the front passenger seat of a 1959 Jaguar MK IX. The famous car manufacturer has an Indian connection , as it has been owned by Tata Motors since 2008. Jeff Dillon , my well-informed and thoroughly courteous guide for the day , taps the front dashboard. " These are being taken good care of by the Tatas , " he says. " Do you get to see many out in India ? " A few , I tell Jeff , have caught the interest of some Indian cricketers after their IPL riches . Our first destination is Larnach Castle , a 20-minute drive from downtown Dunedin along the jaw-dropping Otago Peninsula and close to the small settlement of Pukehiki. It is the only castle in New Zealand , built in 1871 by merchant baron and political William Larnach for his first wife , Eliza Jane Guise. Over 200 workmen spent three years building Larnach Castle , and master European craftsmen a further 12 embellishing the interior . A walk through the imposing mansion shows that Larnach spared no expense on his dream home. Bricks in the stable area - today guests staying at Larch Castle can eat breakfast here - were imported from France ; the wrought-iron verandas are a distinct Colonial touch , referring to Larnach 's English heritage ; the quality of the carving is exquisite , the handiwork of an expert named Louis Godfrey who worked on various rooms off and on for over a decade ; Italian plasterers worked on the plaster ceilings ; there are numerous Italian marble places and Venetian glass panels ; all the doors have brass handles ; there is grand ballroom , built as a 21st birthday present for Larnach 's favourite daughter Kate in 1887. Kate died aged 26 , and her ghost is said to haunt the ballroom . Debbie , the marketing and PR manager , tells me that this was all done by catalogue book , with the shipping of material from Europe taking three-and-a-half months. Talk about patience . Unfortunately for Larnach , his labour of love did not ensure his happiness. After a series of personal and financial setbacks - including his third wife , 25 years younger , having an affair with his eldest son - Larnach 's life ended in tragedy when , seated alone in a committee room in Parliament in October 1989 , he shot himself with a single pistol shot to the head . The actual name for the Castle was 'The Camp ' , as Larnach named it , and the road leading up to it known as Camp Road. Larnach Castle is now home to the Barkers , who I learn have spent over 35 years restoring and recreating the beauty of the 35 acres of gardens and grounds. The estate 's gardens are only of only five gardens in the country to have been given the rating of 'Garden of International Significance'. Well-manicured trees around the circumference of the estate , which overlooks the spectacular Otago Harbour , with Port Chalmers directly across and to our right the northern tip of the Peninsula. Standing atop Larnach Castle , I can see why Larnach was so drawn to the place. It really is beautiful and a must-see for anyone visiting Dunedin . * * * Nestled at the foot of Taiaroa Head , the Royal Albatross Centre is a 40-minute drive from downtown Dunedin , stretching along the Peninsula , and the only mainland breeding ground of albatross in the world. A nature reserve maintained by the Department of Conservation , the Royal Albatross Centre offers visitors and nature lovers a unique opportunity to witness the magnificent albatross close up in their natural habitat . At this stage of the year ( mid-February ) there are adult albatrosses sitting on nests with their chicks. The first albatross egg usually hatches almost on the same day every season , on January 20 , I am told , and the others from there until usually early February. As I look out from the watch spot up on the hill at the RAC , I noticed several adult albatrosses sitting with young ones , guarding them . " The adults are basically acting like an umbrella to stop them from over-heating " says Hoani Langsbury , the manager of operations at Taiaroa Head. " There are irrigators running through the grass to cool them down if it gets too hot. On a hot day it gets quite stifling. A mother albatross and one chick actually died from the heat a couple years ago. " On a day like today , it 's so calm and warm that any sensible albatross is not going to find the inclination nor the wind power to get up and fly , I soon gather. But thankfully as my visit winds down I do get to see an albatross flying out over the edge of the cliffs at one end of the RAC. It is struggling with the weak wind speed , and after a few circles it disappears over the ridge and back to the nesting area . " The male sets out to find a nesting area , decides where it will be , comes in and builds it. Usually within 24 hours the female turns up. As long as the nest is up to standard , it 's all good. If not , she 'll push it over the cliff and build her own. Then they 'll get on with courtship and breeding season. " " Sounds like the human race , " I offer . " Yeah , not that different , " deadpans Hoani . * * * Fort Taiaroa is a late 19th century military fort , built in 1885 in response to a perceived threat of a Russian invasion. Hoani shows me through the bunkers , which holds the Armstrong Disappearing Gun , a six-inch artillery gun designed to be loaded and aimed underground and then popped up like a jack-in-the-box. The weapon was designed to disappear by automatically dropping into the relative safety of a gun replacement for reloading . It is the only fully-restored Armstrong Disappearing Gun still in its original firing position ; the others are in parts and scattered across the Pacific , Australia and Canada. This is because it is the only time the New Zealand government purchased brand new weapons. Though the perceived Russian threat never happened , the government decommissioned the gun in the early 1900s and sold it to a local law firm for scrap. It was too difficult , however , to get up the headland , and so when World War I happened the gun was commandeered back , its stripped off parts found and reassembled , and so it came to its current position in case the enemy decided to come down this far. Ultimately , the gun was used mainly for artillery training . " It was only shot in anger once , " says Hoani , " when supposedly a Japanese submarine was seen , but by the seventh shot they realised it was only a piece of kelp. " © Cricbuzz
