Life continues as usual for Fletcher and Indian team Melbourne , Wed , Feb 18 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Thursday , 19 February , 2015 , 06 : 54 AM There was no hint in Fletcher 's countenance that he could have been at loggerheads with the other members of the Indian support staff as per reports Fletcher was very much in charge of the team 's preparations at the Junction Oval in Melbourne Indian coach Duncan Fletcher was seen hard at work with his wards during their practice session at the Junction Oval. © Cricbuzz Duncan Fletcher went about his job of running the Indian team nets on Wednesday as he would - quietly and without a fuss. There was no hint in his countenance that he could have been at loggerheads with the other members of the Indian cricket team 's support staff , as some sections of the media had us believe through an agonising night . Taking a leaf out of skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's book , Dr RN Baba , normally taciturn in his role as the team 's media manager , was moved to jest when asked about Fletcher. " Duncan is not here today since he has taken a flight home , " he grinned , pointing towards the 66-year-old Zimbabwean emerging from the changing room with assistant coach B Arun . It transpires that Dr Baba had organised an Indian meal for the support staff - all of whom , barring Fletcher - are Indian. It was construed by some as a meeting in which a palace coup was planned and executed. As they trooped in at the Junction Oval , there was no perceptible change seen in the comfort levels that Fletcher had with any of the assistant coaches or the players . It was not long before the team - players and support staff - assembled in a huddle. It was clear from beyond the boundary that it was the Zimbabwean , who has been with the team since the end of the last World Cup , held everyone 's attention with his gentle address , clearing demanding intensity and a sense of purpose from everyone during the session that followed . If the Indian team had heard any buzz from India about Fletcher being rendered persona non grata by a coup , none of them , not the least being the man himself and team director Ravi Shastri , showed it as they trained hard at the Junction Oval on Wednesday. Fletcher was very much in charge of the team 's preparations . Whether it was in helping the batsmen at the crease on the pitch in the middle of the Junction Oval or shuffling up to skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni in his position at first slip to share some insights about Shikhar Dhawan 's batting , Fletcher did everything that he has been doing while Arun had the bowlers ' ear . As has been the case thus far , Sanjay Bangar and R Sridhar were at the practice nets where batsmen took throw downs. Manager Arshad Ayub found a chair near the nets and Shastri kept watch on the proceedings without doing much more than having a word with a batsman at the end of his stint in the middle . If the collective gaze of a dozen mediapersons travelling from India , forced to pay attention to all that Fletcher did , could do something creative , it would have found fruition at the Junction Oval on Wednesday . © Cricbuzz
