Roadshow : A walk along Albert Park Circuit Melbourne , Wed , Feb 18 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Wednesday , 18 February , 2015 , 04 : 53 PM Dhoni would have loved to be here , but he has a certain small matter of leading the Indian team in the ICC Cricket World Cup to attend to ! How would he know the joys of a fairly leisurely stroll on a tarmac on which amazingly powerful beasts will burn rubber during the Grand Prix ? It was easy to slip away after watching South Africa complete their training at the Junction Oval cricket ground to the Albert Park circuit. ( Pic courtesy : G Rajaraman ) © Cricbuzz The owner of a Supersport bike team who is now in this sprawling city may not have had the chance to drive or ride on the Albert Park street circuit that will host the Australian Grand Prix Formula One race on March 15. For , the connoisseur of mean machines may not exactly enjoy the 40 kmph regulations in place as the Albert Park circuit gets ready . His misfortune , really ! How would he know the joys of a fairly leisurely stroll on a tarmac on which amazingly powerful beasts will burn rubber during the Grand Prix ? However , a break on Wednesday provided a lovely window of opportunity to experience a walk on Aughtie Drive , a section which houses the paddock on the 5.3km circuit . To be honest , had the cabbie not whetted one 's appetite on Tuesday by driving on the Aughtie Drive and showing the Melbourne Sports and Aquatics Centre as well as the Lakeside Stadium , one may not have returned for the walk on Wednesday. It was time to end the reverie and return to the Junction Oval where the Indian cricketers were due to arrive for their practice . The experience of a walk on Aughtie Drive , a section which houses the paddock on the 5.3km circuit. ( Pic courtesy G Rajaraman ) © Cricbuzz It was easy to slip away after watching South Africa complete their training at the Junction Oval cricket ground to the Albert Park circuit. Imagining the events of the weekend of racing was easier , given that one has watched Formula One events both as a journalist and a fan at the Buddh International Circuit in Greater Noida . You encounter traffic between Melbourne and its suburbs , Albert Park and St Kilda. From bicycles to motorcycles , from cars to trucks , they are all bound by patience and in accordance with regulations in place. Of course , 40 kmph is a far cry from the speeds that the Formula One cars will achieve as they drive by the Albert Lake . In less than four weeks , nattily dressed guests of various sponsors will undertake the Pit Walk to be able to see the gleaming machines from very close quarters and have a word or two , if not a selfie with the men who will be behind the wheels of the cars. But on Wednesday , the only evidence of life was a security guard at either end of the pit lane . As a biker cruises past , it is hard for the mind not to think of the owner of the Mahi Racing Supersport bike team. ( Pic courtesy G Rajaraman ) © Cricbuzz At the end of the walk along the pit lane some construction crew are rigging up a structure just behind the lane one comes across the busts of two Australian world champions , Jack Brabham ( 1959 , 1960 and 1966 ) and Alan Jones ( 1980 ) . Those who have installed them have thoughtfully left space for one to stand and get photographed . As a biker cruises past , it is hard for the mind not to think of the owner of the Mahi Racing Supersport bike team. He would have loved to test the track out perhaps late one evening but then Mahendra Singh Dhoni has a certain small matter of leading the Indian team in the ICC Cricket World Cup to attend to ! © Cricbuzz
