Rahane open to batting at any position New Delhi , Wed , Feb 18 2015 Last updated on Wednesday , 18 February , 2015 , 11 : 00 PM Rahane recently batted at No 7 during India 's World Cup opener against Pakistan on Sunday . Rahane is keen on adding a wide variety of shots to his repertoire . Rahane - If the mind is positive then it automatically adapts to the situation © Getty He has been tried and tested at different positions , but Ajinkya Rahane , one of India 's batting mainstays , says he does n't mind being shuffled in the batting order as long as the move makes sense. Rahane , who generally prefers batting either as an opener or at No 4 , most recently batted at No 7 during India 's World Cup opener against Pakistan at Adelaide on Sunday . The 26-year-old , who has played 47 ODIs and 14 Tests , reckons his technique remains the same irrespective of where he bats. " You need to be flexible and I am ready to bat at any number , " Rahane told bcci.tv. " You need to have an open mind. The technique remains the same irrespective of the number you are batting at. If the mind is positive then it automatically adapts to the situation . " When I bat at No 4 or 5 , my mind immediately goes to strike rotations and scoring options according to the situations. I always have positive thoughts in my mind and speak to myself about it. " Rahane , playing his first World Cup said that he is keen on making a mark in cricket 's mega-event , and is working on adding a wide variety of shots to his repertoire. " I have been working on shot selections. I have been working on shots that I am uncomfortable playing so that I can score even off them if the opposition has a different field placed for me , " Rahane said. " When you play certain shots , again there are mind games that you play with your opposition. There is risk involved but you need to take them . " The boundaries here are wider and have a different angle and the inside-out shots work. I want to try different shots and play according to my strengths. If the opposition sets fields then I do n't want to play in their hands. Instead I want to look at different scoring areas , thus opening up a range of other shots. You need to have umpteen shot making options to be successful. " Having been in Australia for over three months , Rahane believes his side has got used to the conditions and that the players are eager to make the 90-day-long experience count. " We have been here for a long time now and we 're playing good cricket at the moment. The experiences that we have had over the past few months here will help our mind to mould into the tournament , " Rahane said . " The challenge is to use those experiences and train the mind to get the desired results. Personally , I 've learnt a lot on this tour and I am sure I will be able to learn a lot more in the future tours . " We are all professional players and you can not complain about things like home sickness. If your mind gets wavered by such factors then it begins to affect your performance. I am only trying to relax my mind as much as I can and not get distracted from the ultimate goal. Mental freshness is important to keep you going , " he said . Rahane credited a lot of his success to his tenure with IPL franchise Rajasthan Royals. He admitted to have learnt a great deal from Shane Warne and former India skipper Rahul Dravid. " I still have a long way to go. As a batsman , you need to think like a bowler and vice versa. If you can do that you can read the game better. It is an ability that I learnt with the Rajasthan Royals where I played under Shane Warne and Rahul Dravid , " Rahane said . " Warne always used to bring different ideas on the field and think about ways to get the batsmen out. Watching Dravid Sir play , I used to ask him about his thought process and he stressed on thinking not just as a batsmen but as a bowler as well. Having played under two different captains has helped my game. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
