South Africa , India capable of chasing down any target , anywhere in the world : Gary Kirsten Melbourne , Thu , Feb 19 2015 by Boria Majumdar Last updated on Thursday , 19 February , 2015 , 08 : 41 AM Former India coach Gary Kirsten joined up with the South African team ahead of their game at the MCG Kirsten believes both AB de Villiers and Hashim Amla are the X-factor to the South African team Gary Kirsten joined up with the South African squad ahead of their game against India at the MCG. © Cricbuzz South Africa , by every estimate , is one of the best teams in this ICC Cricket World Cup 2015. A batting order that has names like Hashim Amla , AB De Villiers , Faf du Plessis , JP Duminy and David Miller and a bowling line up that has the great Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel and Vernon Philander. There are hardly any weaknesses in the South African ranks. Yes , they still choke and that 's an embarrassment more than anything else. To remedy this and to leave no stone unturned in their cup mission , South Africa have enlisted the services of their former international and former India coach Gary Kirsten. Gary , one of the most respected people in world cricket , joined the team on the night of 17th February and from what was in evidence at practise on 18th February has had an immediate impact on the players . Team South Africa came on to practise at the beautiful Junction Oval Cricket Ground at exactly 10am in the morning. And the Gary influence was visible from the start. After an early conversation with AB De Villiers , who Gary calls an 'X factor ' player for South Africa , he attended to David Miller and Farhaan Behardien for a long time - throwing balls to them in the same manner he did to Sachin Tendulkar. To Behardien , he threw 88 balls non-stop in 20 minutes and literally coached the batter to perfect the cover drive and the short-arm pull. Each time Farhaan missed a shot , Gary would throw four balls at the same place and ask him to repeat the stroke. And at the end of 20 minutes , it was Farhaan who was tired and wanted to stop. Gary , for his part , was ready to go on for another twenty minutes may be . Having spoken to him at length a few days earlier , I am aware of what it means to Gary to try and help South Africa go far in this World Cup. And like many , he believes they have the team to do so. With the best ODI player in the world as captain , the team has no dearth of talent. " AB " , Gary says , " is a fantastic player. He is very Indian in many ways - does n't believe in a structure , wants to play freely , wants his teammates to enjoy the game and for me he is an X-factor player. There 's no doubt that there 's very little you can do when such players are in great form. De Villiers , at this time , is certainly one of the very best in the world. Hashim Amla too is an X-factor player - he is an intense character and spends a long time at the nets. In many ways , the batting line ups of both South Africa and India are very similar. For India , Virat Kohli and MS Dhoni are the X-factor players. Both these teams are capable of chasing down any score in any part of the world. " An intensely passionate individual , Gary is aware that the 'C ' tag continues to haunt South Africa. At the same time , he is confident this team has the ability to counter it. " Every team in every sport chokes at certain points. It is natural. Yes , we have faltered at key moments. We had a great chance of winning the world cup in 1999. But we failed. It just takes a group of key players with lots of experience to overcome the situation and redeem themselves. I am very confident that this South African team has the ability. You know what , the real World Cup starts mid-March. Till then , you get a chance to fine tune your game and ensure you do n't peak too early. Thereafter you ca n't slip. It depends which team is able to pace itself the best , " he explains . It was interesting to see Gary throw balls to Miller who was batting with just one stump. And each time Miller managed to make good contact , he would get a thumbs up from the consultant. The energy that Kirsten brings to the table is exactly what India has missed in Duncan Fletcher over the last few years. It is the difference between a hands-on and hands-off approach and we all know which has worked better. Shame the man is no longer with India and with three young children doesnt want to think of another assignment either. " I do go to India 3-4 times every year and may I say coaching India has given me memories I will never forget. But my children are very small and I do n't want to take an international coaching assignment for the next few years , at least. In any case , I am with the Delhi Daredevils during the IPL , he trails off . India 's loss is South Africa 's gain . © Cricbuzz
