Pakistan maintain focus in low-key environs Christchurch , Thu , Feb 19 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Friday , 20 February , 2015 , 11 : 00 PM Haris Sohail wants to convert his starts into something more substantial © Getty If there were rumblings within the team , Pakistan did well to hide it under the surface during training in Christchurch on Thursday afternoon , with the mood generally upbeat and plenty of laughs had before the players got into their individual and collective grooves . In the past week , this Pakistan team has had eight players reportedly being fined for breaking team curfew ahead of their World Cup opening against India , which they subsequently lost by 76 runs , and further unrest has been reported between players and the fielding coach. Yesterday , news that Grant Luden had put in his papers , reportedly after being spoken to inappropriately by certain players , was followed by a Pakistan Cricket Board ( PCB ) spokesperson stating that Luden would remain in his role . Away from the media glare they would have attracted in Adelaide , training alongside India no doubt heightening the focus , Pakistan were able to go about their routines in the unassuming setting of Hagley Park. Their session began with a playful yet competitive form of football and tennis , during which the spin bowling coach Mushtaq Ahmed was very active and vociferous in his appealing for what he clearly felt were wrong calls by the appointed referee. Misbah-ul-Haq appeared the least involved , standing in the background and parrying the ball back softly whenever it found him . After standard stretches , Pakistans coach Waqar Younis and Mushtaq gave catching practice to Ahmed Shehzad and Haris Sohail. When both batsmen took low takes inches off the grass , Waqar and Mushtaq shouted their appreciation . Luden gave Sarfraz Ahmed throw-downs for about 15 minutes , during which the wicketkeeper was seen animatedly expressing himself once after collecting a couple deliveries while diving full stretch to his left. But it would be presumptuous to read too much into that exchange , apart from the fact that Sarfraz will probably miss out against West Indies on Saturday because of how long Umar Akmal practiced his wicketkeeping after time in the nets . The Pakistan bowlers put in good time at the practice nets behind the playing field , and the batsmen had decent hits. Sohaib Maqsood , in particular , appeared keen to belt the cover of the ball and was seen charging and heaving at both his team-mates and the local net bowlers. Sohail Khan , the sturdy right-arm fast bowler , bowled bouncers to Nasir Jamshed that had the left-hand opener ducking . After training , Haris Sohail spoke of the need to forget the India defeat and look ahead. " That has passed so we are looking at the next game versus West Indies and then onwards. The boys are really geared up and ready , training hard. Hopefully , the positive results will show , " he said . On his own performance - he is 12 ODIs old - Sohail hoped to improve on a habit of getting starts but not converting. In his 11 ODI innings , the 26-year-old has crossed the fifty-mark only once and has five scores of between 20 and 39. " I 'm missing out a bit but practicing hard. I get to 30-odd and then find ways to get out , so I 'm keen to take such starts forward. The aim is that when I 'm in such a situation , I do n't falter and ensure I convert it into a long innings , " he said. " The focus is to put in the hard yards. I 've doubled my efforts in practice. I feel good. God-willing , the next time I 'm in a situation to produce something good , I will produce a big innings. " You really can never tell what exactly is happening with Pakistan cricket teams , but from the hard yards put in at Hagley Oval the signs , outwardly at least , are that cricket is indeed the focus . © Cricbuzz
