After playing understudy , Raina takes over Yuvraj 's mantle Melbourne , Thu , Feb 19 2015 by Santosh Suri Last updated on Thursday , 19 February , 2015 , 07 : 51 AM Suresh Raina has learnt a lot from Yuvraj Singh and wants to make the most of it in the World Cup Watching the way Yuvraj batted in the 2011 World Cup was an " ideal learning process " for Raina Raina was sent in to bat at No 4 against Pakistan and scored a brisk 74 in the company of Virat Kohli. © AFP Suresh Raina has learnt a lot from Yuvraj Singh and wants to make the most of it in the World Cup. Raina said that watching the way Yuvraj batted in the 2011 World Cup was an " ideal learning process " for him , especially the manner in which Yuvraj was able to control the innings in the middle overs and accelerate at the end . In the Adelaide game against Pakistan , Raina was sent in to bat at No 4 , ahead of Ajinkya Rahane around the 30th over and had close to 20 overs to bat. It was only after he got his eye in that Raina began to play his strokes. Barring the opening tri-series match against Australia in which he scored a half-century , Raina had been found wanting in the other three matches , in which he seemed in undue hurry to dominate. He fell twice to England offspinner Moeen Ali , lasting barely a few deliveries . Despite these failures , the team management reposed faith in him and in the opening match against Pakistan , sent him in to bat at a crucial time. Having learnt his lessons from the tri-series failures and relying on what he learnt from Yuvraj , Raina did a balancing act even as Virat Kohli was going great guns at the other end . Raina said that he was nervous before the big game against Pakistan. " I have to accept I was nervous on the morning of the match. But before going out to bat I was confident because I had scored an unbeaten 36 in the high-octane semi-final game against Pakistan at Mohali in 2011. I was confident about my game since I had played Wahab Riaz , Mohammad Irfan and Shahid Afridi before in India. I had done well in the warm-up game against Afghanistan and it was about taking that confidence into the game in Adelaide , " Raina said . " In my mind I had prepared to be judicious with my strokeplay and I had also worked hard on that aspect of my batting in the practice sessions. I am glad I played a crucial role with Virat Kohli. I am feeling good about my batting now and am confident of my good run in the rest of the tournament. " © TNN
