South Africa played each recent game as World Cup knockout : Domingo Melbourne , Thu , Feb 19 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Friday , 20 February , 2015 , 10 : 59 PM Domingo said the South Africa treated all their recent matches as WC knockouts Coach keen on players strengthening their skill-set Russell Domingo believes that honing one 's skills is a must to deliver under pressure © Getty South Africa coach Russell Domingo revealed on Thursday that the team had approached a dead rubber against Pakistan in Sharjah a year and a half ago as if it were a must-win World Cup quarterfinal to be able to deal with the pressure of such a big game. " There has always been a subtle mention of it being a World Cup knockout match , " he said . " In every series we have played , there has been a subtle mention of the World Cup in a few months ' time and we tried to put ourselves under pressure in every game we have played , whether in Zimbabwe , Sri Lanka , or Dubai , " he said in response to a question at the media interaction on Thursday. " Hopefully , we will have learnt some lessons from that ( approach ) . " On a day when the Indians did not schedule any on-field training , Domingo 's forthright approach at the media interaction ahead of the Sunday 's Group B match between two of the world 's best ODI sides at the hallowed MCG was refreshing. There was no attempt to duck the inevitable question on ghosts from the past haunting the side but a readiness to face it head on . Yet , there was perhaps a hint of desperation to overcome the weight of history. South Africa have had extremely talented sides but have never made it to the final of the World Cup since re-entering the international fold in 1991. Their teams have made semifinal appearances in 1992 , 1999 and 2007 . " We have four or five players who have been in World Cup campaigns and from the coaching staff... no one , I do n't think... , " he said , before being reminded that Allan Donald was surely a part of World Cup campaigns along with Gary Kirsten. He burst out laughing , a gentle expletive escaping his lips. " Oh Allan ! How could I have forgotten that ! " In 1992 , South Africa were done in by the silliest of rain rules that let England squeeze into the final but in 1999 , Allan Donald was famously run out when Lance Klusener charged down the track for what he believed would have been the winning run against Australia and in 2007 , the team was outbowled by Australia . Clearly , there has been an attempt to ensure that the players , even those who have been part of earlier World Cup campaigns , do not carry any baggage from the past. South Africa have dispensed with the services of a sports psychologist and are banking on the cricketing skill-sets of their players to help the team make history . Domingo pointed out that team did not have a psychologist travelling with the team all the time in the past few months. " I do not know Paddy ( Upton ) as a qualified psychologist. I see him more as a life coach , " he said . " I would like our team to focus very much on skills. I am firm believer that if you can get your skills right , you will be in a good space to execute under pressure. If you do it continuously well in pressure situations at practice , hopefully you will get it right in match situations , " Domingo said , indicating that the team was focussing on honing its skills . © Cricbuzz
