Haddin hints at ODI retirement Thu , Feb 19 2015 Last updated on Friday , 20 February , 2015 , 07 : 18 AM Haddin has begun counting down on his ODI career as he admitted to be considering retirement after the 2015 World Cup Haddin did reveal that he wanted to quit during the 2013-14 Ashes , but found new vigour after the 5-0 victory over England Haddin , 37 , is playing in his third World Cup and said " it would be good to be around in a month 's time " . © Getty Brad Haddin , the Australian wicketkeeper-batsman , has begun counting down on his ODI career as he admitted to be considering retirement from the shorter format sometime after the 2015 World Cup. Haddin , 37 , is playing his third World Cup and said ahead of Australia 's second Group A game against Bangladesh that " it would be good to be around in a month 's time " . " I have n't really thought about when I 'm going to pull the pin but it obviously looks like I have n't got many one-day games in front of me , " Haddin was quoted as saying by the Cricket Australia website. " From my point of view , I 'm just enjoying this whole campaign of a World Cup. " Haddin made his ODI debut in 2001 but had to wait until Adam Gilchrist 's retirement to nail down a regular spot in the Australian team , which is reflected in his 119 caps in a career that has spanned 14 years. Haddin did reveal that he wanted to quit during the 2013-14 Ashes , but found new vigour after the 5-0 victory over England , but has now admitted the World Cup could be his last limited-overs assignment . " It would be good to be around in a month 's time at the MCG for the finale but I 'm just enjoying this tournament , " he said. " Obviously it would be a great way to sign off from one-day cricket but I have n't really thought about when I 'm going to pull the pin - but it 's getting close , definitely from one-dayers. " Haddin also confirmed that regular captain Michael Clarke will return to the XI for the match against Bangladesh on Saturday after a lengthy time away due to a hamstring injury. " The only news I can give you is that Michael ( Clarke ) is going to play. This was the plan all along for Michael to be right for this game. " With cyclone Marcia threatening showers at the Gabba on Saturday , Australia 's training sessions had to be short and quick but he hinted that the team could field an all-out pace attack against Bangladesh. Pat Cummins may come in to join up with Mitchell Johnson , Mitchell Starc and Josh Hazlewood to form a potent fast bowling force on Saturday on a pacy Gabba wicket . " There 's a possibility , " Haddin said. " Probably if there was n't any weather around , that possibility would have been slim but now with the weather around there is definitely a possibility that we may go in with four. It 's actually hard to give you a team or what we 're really thinking because we 're so unsure of what 's going to happen with the weather and what 's going to happen when they pull the covers up. " © Cricbuzz
