Battle of the unpredictables in must-win game Christchurch , Fri , Feb 20 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Friday , 20 February , 2015 , 02 : 53 AM Both West Indies and Pakistan have started their World Cup campaign with a loss . Misbah-ul-Haq has stated that Pakistan must field well and take wickets regularly . West Indies skipper Jason Holder has stated that the team will approach every game seriously . West Indies started off their World Cup campaign with a loss to Ireland in Nelson. © Getty Two teams that need to win to stay alive in the 2015 ICC World Cup will meet at Hagley Oval on Saturday , but that is not the only similarity between them. Both are missing influential players , both are creaking from instability and both are coming off dramatic losses. Welcome then , to West Indies versus Pakistan in game ten of the tournament. Not an ordinary fixture by any regards . In one corner , the cornered tigers - Pakistan. Led by Misbah-ul-Haq , 40 , and in his final World Cup. In the other - West Indies , led by Jason Holder , 23 , in his first World Cup. Holder is only 27 ODIs old - having led in six - with questions being asked as to why he was saddled with the responsibility of leading an unstable side. Misbah is in New Zealand just months after his batting form and a series of losses prompted calls for his removal. Two men at opposite ends of their careers , but with the task of leading two of the most frustrating teams in world cricket . Pakistan occupy bottom place in Pool B , with West Indies on level higher owing to a better net run-rate. Both must win , and both captains had their own views on what it will take to outdo the other . " To stop teams to under 300 , you need to back your field placements and take wickets , " said Misbah on Friday. " Defending 300 or hoping to keep teams to under 300 , you must take wickets in the middle overs and up front. Regular breakthroughs are the key. If six or seven batsmen bat well , 300 can easily be made and chased. Our focus will be wickets. " Considering West Indies ' struggles against spin - the Irish trio of Andy McBrine ( 10-1-26-0 ) , George Dockrell ( 10-0-50-3 ) and Paul Stirling ( 6-0-33-0 ) played important roles at Nelson - Misbah was asked if he would pack his side with another spinner , but his reply was a ready one : " We do n't have four spinners. Let 's see the final look of the pitch and decide. " Two possible changes to Pakistan 's XI could be shifting veteran Younis Khan , who was oddly promoted to open against India despite having not batted in that role since 2009 , back to No 4 and playing Sarfraz Ahmed as wicketkeeper instead of Umar Akmal. Younis had only twice opened in and ODI in his 262-match career - in 2004 and 2009 , making 0 and 4 - before the India opener where he made 6. But a closer inspection of his numbers since he was recalled to the team in late 2014 show the apart from one century against New Zealand in the UAE , he has scores of 4 , 6 , 35 , 12 , 9 , 11 and 6. Not the kind of form to put forward when your place in the team is on the line , no matter your experience. Should Younis be dropped , it is foreseeable that Nasir Jamshed slots back into the team at the top . Asked about Younis and Umar Akmal 's roles in the side , Misbah presented a straight bat. " You ca n't say after one game. We 're not panicking. We 're looking into all matters very closely and want to go with a composition that can win us the next game and all those to follow , " he said . As far as West Indies are concerned , they will need to be far better in the field. To make 304 for 7 from the depths of 87 for 5 and then lose to Ireland with 25 deliveries left in the match would rankle , no doubt. They will hope that left-arm spinner Suleiman Benn is back to fitness - he bowled a fair deal during training yesterday and today - in order to attack a team that has its problems against spin. Benn looks good to return , meaning that Kemar Roach , who was expensive against Ireland , could miss out . " Pakistan lost their first match against India , we 've both started the campaign with a loss. It 's important that we take this game very seriously , as we did in the first couple of games we had , said Holder. " Got to execute our plans. What is clear for us is that if we do that , and do what we want to , then we can be very successful. It 's about being consistent . These two teams last met for ODIs in the Caribbean in July 2013 , a series that Pakistan , under Misbah , won 3-1. Then , Misbah top-scored in the series with 260 runs at 65 , with four fifties in five innings. An encore would put Pakistan in a good spot , with some help from his talented team-mates . Probable XIs West Indies : 1 Dwayne Smith , 2 Chris Gayle , 3 Darren Bravo , 4 Marlon Samuels , 5 Denesh Ramdin ( wk ) , 6 Lendl Simmons , 7 Daren Sammy , 8 Andre Russell , 9 Jason Holder , 10 Jerome Taylor , 11 Suleiman Benn Pakistan : 1 Ahmed Shehzad , 2 Nasir Jamshed , 3 Sohaib Maqsood , 4 Misbah-ul-Haq ( capt ) , 5 Umar Akmal ( wk ) , 6 Haris Sohail , 7 Shahid Afridi , 8 Wahab Riaz , 9 Yasir Shah , 10 Sohail Khan , 11 Mohammad Irfan © Cricbuzz Tags
