Southee sends England packing ; McCullum pounds them into the ground Fri , Feb 20 2015 by Vishaal Loganathan Last updated on Friday , 20 February , 2015 , 11 : 12 PM © Getty A packed , and largely boisterous , crowd at Westpac Stadium in Wellington was treated to an exhibition in swing bowling as Tim Southee sent England plummeting down with a stunning seven-wicket haul before Brendon McCullum tore into the England attack with a record-breaking fifty to hand New Zealand a massive win , their third on the trot this ICC World Cup. The right-armer finished with figures of seven for 33 to help the hosts bowl out an already beleaguered England side for a lowly score of 123. If folding for a low score was n't embarrassing enough , England 's bowling performance would 've definitely ticked the box. Brendon McCullum came out all guns blazing , smashing a fifty off just 18 deliveries - the third fastest of all time , to help the hosts win by 8 wickets and complete their second highest win in ODIs . On a pitch that had something in it for everyone , Southee dominated proceedings with a stunning display of bowling. He achieved his best ever bowling figures in an ODI , besting his five for 33 against Pakistan in 2011 at the same venue. He ended up with the best ever figures for a New Zealand player , bettering Shane Bond 's six for 19 against India. He was well supported by Trent Boult ( one for 32 ) , Daniel Vettori ( one for 19 ) and Adam Milne ( one for 25 ) , while New Zealand 's stupendous fielding also helped in keeping the run flow in check and the pressure always high . New Zealand were left facing the prospect of chasing a low total for the second time in as many games. But unlike the game against Scotland , during which they lost a string of wickets trying to chase down 143 quickly , New Zealand made a terrific start. Brendon McCullum , in particular , was in the mood for carnage as he slammed the fastest ever fifty in World Cups to put the hosts on course for a thumping win. He got to the landmark off just 18 deliveries , also recording the third fastest fifty of all time . The NZ captain showed no signs of stopping , celebrating his getting to a remarkable fifty by smashing Steven Finn for three consecutive sixes. New Zealand notched up their hundred in just the 7th over of the innings. McCullum was out in the next over , but he had already walloped 77 off just 25 deliveries . England finally got a break they were desperate for , but it did not come in the form they would have hoped for. With New Zealand just 12 runs short of a crushing win , the players were taken off the field for lunch. Martin Guptill was out in the first over after lunch , but Kane Williamson and Ross Taylor hit the remaining runs to extend New Zealand 's unbeaten streak against England in World Cups to 32 years . Having been asked to bowl first , with England captain Eoin Morgan reckoning that the wicket will be batting friendly , New Zealand started off aggressively with captain Brendon McCullum operating with as many as four slips. After a tight first couple of overs , England 's openers Moeen Ali and Ian Bell found gaps on either side of the wicket to register their first boundaries . Southee gave New Zealand their first breakthrough in the fifth over of the innings , beating Ian Bell with pace and late away movement and hitting the off-stump. That was the beginning of the Tim Southee Masterclass. He added to England 's woes in his next over with an absolute corker. Ali , who looked in good touch having smashed Southee for three consecutive fours after the Bell dismissal , was caught napping with a brilliant yorker and was send back for a 15-ball 20 . Gary Ballance and Joe Root stitched out a nervy 21-run stand before Boult got into the act and induced a false stroke out of the left-hander. Eoin Morgan , who has been under severe pressure for his horrific form , eased himself into some sort of form with a 47-run stand with Joe Root . At 104/3 , England showed signs of a resurgence , but Vettori gave New Zealand their way back by getting the England captain superbly caught by Adam Milne at long-on. McCullum , then , made his masterstroke by getting Southee back into the attack. The right-armer needed just two deliveries to make an impact. James Taylor had no answer to Southee 's outswinger and found his off stump pegged back . With his next over , the New Zealand pacer left England crawling on all fours by getting rid of Jos Buttler and Chris Woakes. England had slumped to 110/7 , and needed Root , who stood helpless at the other end as Southee worked his magic , to give the total some respectability . The England right-hand bat only faced five more deliveries before the England scorecard read 117/9 , with Southee taking the wickets of Stuart Broad and Steven Finn and registering the best ever figures for a New Zealand player in World Cups . Adam Milne picked up the final wicket , of Root , England 's top-scorer with 46 , as England were bundled out for a paltry 123 inside 34 overs . And then , Brendon McCullum happened . © Cricbuzz Tags
