Weather : Temperatures between 22-26C. Heavy rain . Team news Australia A missed opportunity proved costly for England as Aaron Finch made them pay with a fine century in Australia 's opening match , while Glenn Maxwell and George Bailey also came good with the bat. However , the stand-in skipper might have to make way for Clarke , who has recovered from a hamstring injury he sustained during the Test series against India. In the bowling department , it was Mitchell Marsh who did the damage , picking up his maiden five-wicket haul , while Mitchell Johnson and Mitchell Starc also got amongst the wickets . While most of the batters did well , Shane Watson and Steven Smith failed to deliver and Australia will be hoping that their poor performance against England is just an aberration. Australia also have a concern with their spin bowling department with Maxwell and Smith going for a few in the same match. These issues apart , Australia have a strong line-up with their batting order extending up to No 10 , while they also have eight players who can do a fair job with the ball . Australia captain Clarke said the XI for the match has been decided , but did not reveal the combination as changes could be done at the last moment keeping a curtailed affair in mind. In case the game does take place , Bailey sitting out is almost a certainty , although there are reports that the Australian team management is having second thoughts about including Shane Watson. It is also reported that Pat Cummins could replace Josh Hazlewood , who had an ordinary outing in the previous game . Probable XI : 1. David Warner , 2. Aaron Finch , 3. Shane Watson , 4. Michael Clarke ( capt ) , 5. Steven Smith , 6. Glenn Maxwell , 7. Mitchell Marsh , 8. Brad Haddin ( wk ) , 9. Mitchell Johnson , 10. Mitchell Starc , 11. Pat Cummins . Bangladesh Bangladesh were below par in their warm-up matches against Pakistan and Ireland and a top-order collapse left them in a lot of trouble against Afghanistan , before Mushfiqur Rahim and Shakib Al Hasan bailed them out. Tamim Iqbal and Mahmudullah , who scored fine half-centuries against Pakistan , failed to deliver against Afghanistan , while the likes of Anamul Haque , Mominul Haque and Soumya Sarkar also did not contribute much. While the experienced pair of Shakib and Mushfiqur will be expected to play key roles in the batting department , Bangladesh will be hoping for the rest of the batters to provide solid support . Skipper Mashrafe Mortaza was terrific with the ball against Afghanistan , finishing with figures of 3 for 20 in nine overs , while Shakib , Rubel Hossain , Taskin Ahmed and Mahmudullah also did a decent job. However , the bowlers will have a tough job going up against a formidable Australian batting order , and they will not have any margin for error . Mortaza said Bangladesh would like to do away with the concept of " winning combination " , which means a couple of changes are possible. They went in with eight batsmen against Afghanistan , but might look at a seven-four combination for this game. Mominul Haque might be the batsman to make way for left-arm spinner Taijul Islam . Probable XI : 1. Anamul Haque , 2. Tamim Iqbal , 3. Soumya Sarkar , 4. Mahmudullah , 5. Shakib Al Hasan , 6. Mushfiqur Rahim ( wk ) , 7. Sabbir Rahman , 8. Mashrafe Mortaza ( capt ) , 9. Taijul Islam , 10. Rubel Hossain , 11. Taskin Ahmed . Watch out for : The swashbuckling David Warner was off to a superb start against England , but his outing was cut short when a terrific delivery from Stuart Broad beat him for pace. The left-handed opener will be eager to bounce back with a commanding performance , and Bangladesh better get themselves ready to be sent on a leather hunt . Anamul Haque , the 22-year-old right-handed opener , has a lot of talent and his batting ability has impressed all. The elegant batsman that he is , Anamul has not been able to translate it into useful contributions. It will do Bangladesh a lot of good if he looks at the World Cup as a platform to prove his abilities . Quotes " As much as we would like to get out on that field and continue our form in the World Cup , we need to realise how bad this cyclone is and care most about the people of Queensland. " - Michael Clarke . " I think it is negative to think of only the one point ( in case of an abandoned game ) . We are preparing to play a full match. We do n't want to play a curtailed game as forming a team combination becomes harder. " - Mashrafe Mortaza . Stats It is close to 10 years since since Bangladesh last won an ODI against Australia. In the 19 games they have played so far , Bangladesh could emerge victorious only once - in the Natwest series match in Cardiff in June 2005. Michael Clarke and Mashrafe Mortaza are the only two active players who participated in that game . © Cricbuzz
