India 's focus enhances prospect of keen battle with Proteas Melbourne , Fri , Feb 20 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Friday , 20 February , 2015 , 10 : 57 PM India sought to practice in the afternoon at the Junction Oval where they could simulate match conditions better It also looks like Bhuvneshwar Kumar is not yet in the mix of things for the game against South Africa India 's batsmen were up against quicker bowlers , first as if against the new ball and then freeing their arms as if against the older ball. © AFP The Indian cricket team 's desire to simulate match conditions during training and their ability to sustain intensity during preparation in the run-up to their second Group B game against South Africa in the ICC Cricket World Cup came through tellingly at the Junction Oval on Friday , much to the delight of the handful of fans assembled beyond the fencing . On a day when New Zealand paceman Tim Southee came up a dream spell and their skipper Brendon McCullum cracked the fastest half-century in World Cup history , against a hapless England 2500km away in Wellington , the Indians focussed hard on training ahead of the important clash at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on Sunday . To begin with , while the South Africans were happy to train in the morning at the net facility outside the magnificent cauldron called the MCG , India sought to practice in the afternoon at the Junction Oval where they could simulate match conditions better and have the seamers bowl off their full run-up rather than have to shorten them at the nets . It is not to say that the Proteas did not have similar intensity. There was no better evidence of that than the return of South African paceman Dale Steyn from rest since Sunday 's win against Zimbabwe owing to a bout of sinusitis. He bowled full tilt at the MCG net facility , even hitting Quinton de Kock on his abdomen with a quick delivery . Back at the Junction Oval , each pair of Indian batsman was up against quicker bowlers , first as if against the new ball and then freeing their arms as if against the older ball. Later they played a set of spinners , attempting big hits and innovative strokes as well. Similarly , the fast bowlers had a plan which let them bring in their variations - bouncers , slow bouncers , yorkers et al . Skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni kept an eagle eye on the bowlers , either from his position behind the wicketkeeper or from near the top of the bowler 's run-up. Umesh Yadav , in particular , was the beneficiary of the captain 's advice when he was bowling to the Virat Kohli-Ajinkya Rahane pair. Even the net bowlers were given specific roles to play . A sore note , if it can be called that , was that offspinner Ashwin did not bowl at all. However , since he batted , there seemed to be no doubt that he would be available for selection on Sunday. He had suffered a blow on his left arm when batting on Tuesday but his absence from the bowling crease was more by way of precaution than anything else . It also looks like Bhuvneshwar Kumar is not yet in the mix of things for the game against South Africa , though he batted and bowled. Perhaps the team management has reconciled to the possibility of him pushing the faster bowlers in the XI Umesh Yadav , Mohammed Shami and Mohit Sharma only in the later stages of the tournament . The coaching staff has done well to ensure that batsman Ambati Rayudu and allrounders Axar Patel and Stuart Binny are given as much attention as those who figured in the victory over Pakistan in the opening game at Adelaide so that they are well prepared should , for some reason , an eventuality arise anytime . If India can bring such intensity and their A game to the MCG on Sunday against one of the teams that have been installed as hot favourites , the sellout crowd expected to pack the magnificent stadium could be in for rare treat in what will be only the first meeting between the two teams in Australia since the 1992 World Cup . © Cricbuzz Tags
