Roadshow : Dhoni and Kohli show they care for fans Melbourne , Fri , Feb 20 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Saturday , 21 February , 2015 , 01 : 59 AM It was a heartening gesture from senior members of the side , as many fans were disappointed at not being allowed in Kohli endears himself more to fans who recognise that he goes that extra mile to bridge the gap Kohli 's decision to spend some time in the presence of fans made it worth the fans ' while. ( Pic : G Rajaraman ) © Cricbuzz He hunted for the cricket ball with the enthusiasm of a child and when he found it in the bush way beyond the fence of the Junction Oval on Friday , he resisted great temptation to take it away. After all , the cricket ball had been sent out of the ground by one of his favourite cricketers , the India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni . Not long after local resident , cricket umpire and hobby photographer Mohit was persuaded to return the ball , Dhoni sent another one in his direction. This time , after finding the ball , the migrant from Pune whipped out his cell phone , got its camera operational to click a photograph of him holding the cricket ball in his left hand . It was not the only special moment for fans assembled at various points outside the picturesque ground in St Kilda. Chicago hotelier Mohammed 'Bashir ' Bazai , originally from Karachi , became an exception to the rule that fans would be locked out of the Junction Oval when he was let in , reportedly at the behest of the Indian captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni . Bazai was famously given a ticket to India 's ICC World Twenty20 final against Sri Lanka in Dhaka last year. He was at India 's opening game against Pakistan in Adelaide , flaunting a miniature World Cup and posing for fans from both countries. And on Friday , instead of being with the Pakistan team in Christchurch , he decided to be in Melbourne . " It is like watching animals in a primitive zoo , " a fan , peering through the wire fence , told a police official. " We have flown a long way from Calgary in Canada. We were in Adelaide for the game against Pakistan and enjoyed the great atmosphere there. We have been here a week and are already in love with Australia. Can you not let us in , please ? " Another fan from Coimbatore joined the pleas to be let in so that he could watch the training session without the wire fencing coming in the way. " I am an exporter and bought my ticket to the Melbourne game nearly a year ago , " he said. At the only gate through which people could get in , a man held his toddler up and sought to impress the security staff but in vain . Dhoni 's deputy Virat Kohli did really well to stop between the gate and the bus to be able to sign for a few fans and pose for selfies with others , all of whom had waited patiently for the players to finish their intense training session and return to the coach that would take them back to the team hotel . Kohli , whose 107 against Pakistan in Adelaide last week came on the back of four centuries in the recent Tests against Australia , has made it a point to oblige as many fans as possible at the end of each day 's practice. Despite being flanked by police and security personnel , he endears himself more to fans who recognise that he goes that extra mile to bridge the gap . Kohli 's decision to spend some time in the presence of fans made it worth the fans ' while. It was a heartening gesture from a senior member of the side , considering that many fans were disappointed at not being allowed in , despite there being a couple of pavilions , wooden benches around the ground and a grassy hill beyond the wooden pickets around the ground . But in their own different ways , Dhoni and Kohli showed that they care for the cricket fan . © Cricbuzz
