West Indies flatten abject Pakistan Christchurch , Sat , Feb 21 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Saturday , 21 February , 2015 , 06 : 48 AM West Indies plundered 79 runs in their final five overs Only Sohaib Maqsood and Umar Akmal offered any resistance to the West Indies quicks . Andre Russell ended with figures of three for 33 to go with his quickfire 42. © Getty Game ten of the 2015 ICC World Cup was over as a contest when Pakistan crashed to 1 for 4 chasing 311. That the worst ever start to an ODI innings came after a very shoddy fielding effort - there were five dropped catches - which allowed West Indies to rally to 310 for 6 , will be of particular worry for fans of this Pakistan team. More so because Pakistan now need to win their remaining matches handsomely to avert a third first-round exit from a World Cup in four editions. In the end , a total of 160 was an improvement from 25 for 5 , but Pakistan have looked in bad shape so far . When Andre Russell and Lendl Simmons helped West Indies loot 79 runs in the final five overs , it appeared that was a significant achievement. But moments after the mid-innings break it became clear that Pakistan were not going to get anywhere near 300 . Nasir Jamshed , who was off the field for 45 overs after injuring a finger in dropping a straightforward catch at third man , made a duck on his return to the XI , pulling a short ball from Jerome Taylor to Russell at midwicket. Younis Khan , back at No 3 , poked his first ball to Denesh Ramdin. Pakistan 1 for 2 , two batsmen out for ducks , and Taylor with a dramatic opening over. A third was added to that awful start , with Haris Sohail cutting to the substitute , Jonathan Carter at backward point. After two overs , Taylor had figures of 2-1-1-3 . It got worse. First ball of the third over , Ahmed Shehzad drove hard at Jason Holder and nicked to Lendl Simmons at gully. Nineteen balls , three runs , four wickets. Chaos . Misbah-ul-Haq , who a day before the match had stated there was no need to panic over Pakistan 's batting , went next for seven , slashing a short and wide ball from Russell to first slip where Chris Gayle pouched a sharp catch. At 25 for 5 , Misbah 's team was in the mire . Sohaib Maqsood and Umar Akmal , who both made zeroes in the loss to India in Adelaide , stemmed the rot with a partnership of 80 in 15 overs , one that was ended by a superb diving catch from Sulieman Benn to his left from mid-on. Maqsood 's 66-ball 50 featured four fours and a six , but was only of statistical significance. Gayle spilled a chest-high offering at short midwicket when Akmal was on 19 , and the batsman eased himself to a stroke-filled 59 before he swung Russell to deep midwicket . There were no fireworks from there , with Russell adding Wahab Riaz to finish with 3 for 33 and Benn , on comeback , taking 2 for 39. The margin of defeat was 150 runs . Earlier , put into bat under passing clouds , West Indies rallied from the loss of their openers Gayle and Dwayne Smith to Mohammad Irfan and Sohail Khan respectively , then lost steam leading into a batting Powerplay that produced just 16 runs , only to find lift from Simmons , Darren Sammy and Russell in the death overs. Aiding them were some butterfingered Pakistan fielders , with a total of five dropped catches and numerous misfields and overthrows adding to a comical fielding effort . At 28 for 2 , Marlon Samuels and Darren Bravo found themselves needing to wage a fightback , and that they did with a 75-run association. A couple of streaky boundaries got Samuels underway , Irfan 's extra bounce hurrying him into his horizontal-bat shots , and he had another heart-in-mouth moment when a top edge off Afridi fell between two outfielders. He faced a testing first spell from Wahab Riaz , who beat the bat and drew two edges , one that did n't carry to the slips and the second that Afridi spilled at midwicket - but fell on 38 when he danced out at the first ball of a new spell from left-arm spinner Haris Sohail and found long-off . Darren Bravo lacked fluency during his 78-ball 49 - he was denied the strike for four overs early on - and copped a throw on the grill when running a quick single. He too was dropped on 45 , Afridi the culprit at short square leg , and had to retire with a left hamstring injury that sent him to hospital for an MRI scan. Ramdin went into the batting Powerplay on 30 from 17 balls and came out of it in 40 from 32 , and got as far as 51 before he became Haris Sohail 's second wicket , lofting to long-off . At 195 for 4 with ten overs to go , West Indies found some momentum from Simmons , who swatted a six and two fours off Haris Sohail and found support from Sammy , who played some smacking shots during a sprightly 30. On 44 , Simmons was dropped at third man by Irfan and used the life to get to a crucial fifty , but it was Russell 's ballistic 13-ball 42 featuring three crunching sixes off Sohail Khan in the 49th over , that really gave West Indies runs to work with. West Indies took 115 off the last ten overs , and 79 off the last five , a far cry from their first ten that had them 46 for 2 . Brief scores : West Indies 310 for 6 in 50 overs ( Lendl Simmons 50 , Denesh Ramdin 51 , Darren Bravo 49 , Andre Russell 42 * ) beat Pakistan 160 in 39 overs ( Umar Akmal 59 , Sohaib Maqsood 50 , Jerome Taylor 3/15 , Andre Russell 3/33 ) by 150 runs . © Cricbuzz Tags
