West Indies are not pushovers : Russell Christchurch , Sat , Feb 21 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Saturday , 21 February , 2015 , 08 : 13 AM Andre Russell has said that teams can underestimate the West Indies at their own peril . Russell pointed out that the West Indies was serious about competing . Russell won his fifth Man-of-the-Match award . Russell scored an unbeaten 42 from just 13 balls and then took three wickets and a catch against Pakistan in Christchurch. © Getty Andre Russell 's facial expression and tone of voice did n't show it , but he has issued a warning to opposition teams in the 2015 ICC World Cup : underestimate West Indies at your own peril . Russell scored an unbeaten 42 from just 13 balls and then took three wickets and a catch as Pakistan were hammered by 150 runs at Hagley Oval on Saturday and this performance played a big role in West Indies coming back from a loss to Ireland in their tournament opener in Nelson. After this stellar performance , the allrounder spoke of how serious the team was about competing . " I think we learned a lot from the loss against Ireland. It 's not that we went into the game thinking that Ireland is an easy team , " Russell told reporters in a slow , understated tone. " There is no easy team in the World Cup. It just goes to show on the day we have to turn up. It does n't matter which team we play against , we 're going to have to play our A game. It 's all good cricket from now on. It 's the momentum , and once we keep doing what we can do , I think we 're going to go all the way. " " It 's a very good feeling winning a game after losing to Ireland , in that manner. As I said before , it just goes to show that West Indies can dominate and we are here to compete. A lot of talks have been going around , but we are not paying any attention to those. We just have to do what we have to do and get the job done on the field. We just turned up today and wanted to show the world that we are not just a pushover. We are always a good team and we can fight. " Russell 's fifth Man-of-the-Match award was a critical display of the two facets that West Indies rely on an allrounder like him for - a slam-bang , game-turning cameo followed by three wickets , two of which were big Pakistan batsmen. " It 's very big to contribute to the team and win the Man-of-the-Match award , " he said , " But at the end of the day , the contributions from the other guys , the way we batted we did n't get the start that we wanted , but the guys in the middle , they kept it together and they set the innings perfectly for me to come and do my thing. It just goes to show that we 're a good team and playing as a team you 're always going to get the job done once everyone contributes. " Misbah-ul-Haq , Pakistan 's captain , admitted that Russell 's innings had dealt his team a psychological blow and that West Indies scored " far too many runs " in the last seven overs - a short passage of play that shifted the momentum. And indeed , the muscular allrounder 's three fours and four sixes - three off fast bowler Sohail Khan in the penultimate over - turned Pakistan 's mood down as he cleared his front leg and heaved straight and towards cow corner . Asked if he preferred to walk out in crunch situations , where the number of deliveries left in an innings were less and the demand for runs high , Russell let slip a comment that perhaps showed his mentality as a player - that of being best suited to Twenty20 cricket . " I think it all has to do with the situation. I can bat even if 20 overs are still left to go. But I think I really enjoy it when ten overs , five overs are left , " he said. " I can just come and play my natural game. It 's not like I have to be cagey especially being over 250 runs or 140 and five , six overs to go. I think I can just come and play my natural game from there. " What made West Indies ' victory sweeter for Russell was that it showed their depth and ability to not rely on a couple big names , such as Chris Gayle and Marlon Samuels who , on the basis of sheer experience , are the batting mainstays. And he again sounded out a warning that the team would only be tougher to beat if these two stars contributed . " I think from the warm-up games Chris has been struggling , and you know , we 're still scoring 300 runs and he 's not performing. Even Marlon Samuels who is one of our main batters as well , so I just think when these guys peak at the right time , West Indies has the ability to score over 350 , " he said. " I think the way they keep motivating the team and the team spirit is very good. He 's [ Gayle ] not moody. Chris is just an amazing guy that you share the changing room with. Even he 's not scoring and he 's not miserable , he 's not grumpy. He 's happy , he 's laughing , and he 's cheering everyone on the field , and that 's what we want from a big guy like him , so it 's very good. " © Cricbuzz Tags
