Misbah-ul-Haq is a coward and a selfish captain : Shoaib Akhtar Sat , Feb 21 2015 Last updated on Sunday , 22 February , 2015 , 04 : 09 AM Shoaib Akhtar called skipper Misbah-ul-Haq " a coward " and " a selfish player " after Pakistan were crushed by 150 runs by West Indies Ramiz Raja also expressed his disappointment after Pakistan 's abject surrender and believed it was time for Younis Khan to step down Shoaib Akhtar called Misbah-ul-Haq " a coward " and " a selfish player " © Getty Former Pakistan pacer Shoaib Akhtar called skipper Misbah-ul-Haq " a coward " and " a selfish player " after Pakistan were crushed by 150 runs by West Indies in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 match on Saturday . " I have not seen a more coward and selfish captain than Misbah , " the 39-year-old Akhtar told Geo News. " He is not willing to bat up the order to protect the other players at a time when he needs to show inspiration. He is happy with his own runs and I do n't know what coach Waqar Younis wants. He has no game plan or direction for the team. " Chasing 311 at the Hagley Oval in Christchurch , Pakistan slipped to 1 for 4 , the worst ever start to an ODI innings , which came after a very shoddy fielding effort. Misbah , whose half-century against India went in vain in their opening match , batted at number five in this game. However , he made only seven as Pakistan were bowled out for 160 to slump to their second straight defeat in the competition . Former Test captain Rameez Raja also expressed his disappointment after Pakistan 's abject surrender and believed it was time for senior batsman Younis Khan to step down after failing in the opening two World Cup matches . " I beg of Younis. Thank you for your services to Pakistan cricket but please leave this ODI side now , " said Rameez. " I think Younis should tell the management he should be rested. Our fielding has also been a joke but we need just one good match to get back on the winning track. " Younis , 37 , has been Pakistan 's leading run-scorer for the last decade and he recently came up with scores of 106 , 103 , 216 and 100 not out against Australia and New Zealand to boost his Test record to an impressive 8327 runs at an average of 53.37 with 28 hundreds and 29 fifties . Former Pakistan leg-spinner Mushtaq Ahmed , who is part of the national team 's coaching staff , felt Younis ' recent ODI form and his overall ODI record showed he was a far better Test player . " I think Younis made a mistake trying to prolong his ODI career in a major event like the World Cup. His presence obviously means that the team management is also under pressure to give him chances because of his past performances and seniority. " " I just want to see him now return from the World Cup gracefully , " Mushtaq said and added " If the team does not have a turnaround in form people will look for scapegoats to explain the poor performance. " Mohammad Yousuf , another former captain of Pakistan , called for wholesale changes to be made after the World Cup. " The problems ailing our cricket will not go away unless we produce better batsmen and the management is reshuffled. " he said . Former Test spinner Saqlain Mushtaq was also scathing in his criticism. " We went to pieces against a West Indies side hit by internal issues so what can we expect from this team in the remaining games ? " said Saqlain . Meanwhile , in the city of Multan , angry supporters carried out a mock funeral of Pakistan cricket , offering prayers around a bed of cricket bats while smashing television sets with sticks on the roads . " This is a joke we arrange for special sittings to watch the match together and we stay up all night praying for their success and they perform like a third-rate team , " Pakistan fan Zamir Ahmed said . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
