MS Dhoni won the toss and opted to bat , India were unchanged Shikhar Dhawan ( 137 ) and Rahane ( 79 ) helped India post 307 South Africa were bowled out for 177 © Getty Jinx broken : India thump South Africa by 130 runs The result was not in doubt after a point but the eventual margin of victory for India was still astonishing. It was the first time that India were beating South Africa in a World Cup game. It was South Africa 's biggest defeat ever in World Cups. Ashwin impressed for the second game in succession and ending with figures of 3/41. Two big games out of their way and two wins to boot. India look well set to top Group B unless they slip up or lose intensity. South Africa were disappointing overall. They did not offer any fight with the bat and this dismal performance will hurt their pride a lot . Thanking them back Shikhar Dhawan shares his Player of the Match with the huge number of Indian fans at the @ MCG # cwc15 # INDvSA pic.twitter.com/1I7ZJxVU1S — ICC ( @ ICC ) February 22 , 2015 Closing in : Proteas sinking Two wickets in the 34th over effectively shut out any remote chances of a South Africa fightback. David Miller was caught short by a sharp throw from the deep from Umesh Yadav. Vernon Philander was trapped LBW by Ashwin in the same over. Even a review could n't save him. South Africa 153/7 after 34 overs. India getting ready to celebrate the end of a jinxed run against South Africa in World Cups . 86876 was the crowd attendance at the MCG. Reckon at least 80000 would be supporting India there. Big party in the offing . India on top : du Plessis falls after fifty Mohit Sharma was the man with the golden arm. Struck a big blow with the first ball of his new spell. du Plessis was batting sensibly until then but wanted to put pressure on Mohit by attacking him straightaway. The tactic did not pay off. He came down the track and hit the ball straight to mid off. South Africa in more trouble now . India continued to impress. Duminy 's wicket was again a result of sustained pressure. Only two boundaries came in the five overs prior to Duminy 's fall. He had to look at ways to get runs and out came the reverse sweep. Only ended by gloving it to slip. Ashwin got that key wicket and India firmly favorites from now . Big wicket : AB de Villiers is run out Four dot balls in the over and AB de Villiers tries a quick second off the fifth ball. Mohit Sharma is quick at sweeper cover and the sharp throw catches ABD well short. The roar from the crowd says it all. Huge breakthrough for India. South Africa 113/3 in the 25th over . Faf du Plessis was leading South Africa 's fight with a composed fifty - his 13th in ODIs. South Africa are still not out of this one. Lots of batting still to come . Wicket : Pressure shows South Africa did not get any easy boundary balls. Amla had to try and look for boundaries and when Mohit tried a bouncer , Amla felt it was the right one to go after. He ended up holing out to fine leg. Big wicket on a big ground. South Africa are 40/2 , India obviously elated but here comes the danger man - AB de Villiers . The Sachin Selfie : Christopher Nolan would love thisThat is Sachin taking a picture of himself with the crowd in the background taking a picture of Sachin taking himself and the crowd . Always special to be back at cricket stadiums. Atmosphere at the MCG is fantastic ! # CWC15 # IndvsSA pic.twitter.com/DLK49FG1Sm — sachin tendulkar ( @ sachin_rt ) February 22 , 2015 Start : South Africa under pressure India 's pacers bowled with a lot of discipline. No , that 's not a joke. They actually did ! South Africa were 30/1 after 9 overs with no easy boundaries conceded. India were off to a similar start as well but in South Africa 's case , there was that small , bugging issue of required run-rate. The scorebaord pressure was showing. Amla punched one wide of cover where Rahane made a splendid diving stop and had a shy at the stumps. He missed , Raina ran in to collect and under-armed it towards the stumps but he missed too. Amla breathed a sigh of relief as he made it back in. Good intensity from India . Wicket : India 's nemesis falls early Quinton de Kock had scored three hundreds in as many matches against India before this game. However , today he was in no rhythm whatsoever. He stuck around for 15 balls before chasing a wide delivery from Shami and spooning to mid off. Good start for India . © Getty Finish : Raina hit a boundary off the first ball he faced but did not last long. He was dropped by Rossouw but fell trying another pull off Morkel in the same over. Rossouw made no mistake this time. Rahane fell to Steyn after a 60-ball 79. India banking on Dhoni to give them the finishing touches. Meanwhile Jadeja was run out by another de Villiers direct hit. India 's finish not going well again after losing four for 23 in 4 overs . Dhoni turned things around with three consecutive boundaries off Parnell , the weakest link of the South African attack. Not so bad a finish now but he too fell in the penultimate over to Morkel. India crossed 300 this time. Finished with 307 after losing 4 wickets for 36 runs in the last five overs . Numbers back India at the halfway stage. They 've never lost a game when Dhawan has scored a ton and more importantly , no team has ever scored 300 while batting 2nd at MCG. Wo n't be an easy chase for South Africa but with de Villiers , Amla and Co in their ranks , they will be backing themselves . Carnage : Rahane plays a gem India 's batting progression was eerily similar to the way it went against Pakistan. Rohit fell early in both games. Dhawan-Kohli put on an assuring stand. Dhawan fell first in that game , was replaced by left-hander Raina. Kohli fell today but in came Rahane. Raina upped the ante with a quickfire knock and so did Rahane today. They made a mess of the finish in that game though. Here they have another chance to make amends . Dhawan registered his career-best ODI score in the process. India got 44 runs in the batting powerplay. Dhawan switched gears and rattled along , playing some audacious shots on the way. The 100-run stand came in just 83 balls. Rahane got his fifty off 40 balls. Clinical from India . Dhawan finally fell for 137 in the 44th over. Walked off to a standing ovation after a job well done. India were well placed to launch another attack in the death overs and they had just the right man to do so in Raina . India 's target A 300-plus target has never been successful chased down in an ODI at the Melbourne Cricket Ground . — Bishen Jeswant ( @ bishen_jeswant ) February 22 , 2015 There comes 'Dha'ton : Shikhar Dhawan was jittery as soon as he got to 99. Close to 70000 people were cheering and egging him on and the pressure did get to him a touch. He tried a couple of quick runs but was sent back. He finally got it with a punch through cover for a boundary in the 35th over. A fabulous effort against a quality attack. Welcomed warmly by the loud Indian crowd as well . Crucial phase of play coming up. India 183/2 after 35 overs. How much they get in the batting powerplay could be the key to their end score as well . Crowd support : India at home in Melbourne On a noise measure , this is the most popular sporting event ever held at the MCG ! pic.twitter.com/Vr5HtfnPpg — Peter Young ( @ PeterYoung1952 ) February 22 , 2015 India Cricket fans really are incredible... The colour and noise at the MCG is a picture... # ICCWorldCup2015 — Michael Vaughan ( @ MichaelVaughan ) February 22 , 2015 © Getty Wicket : Kohli falls for 46 Kohli slapped a short ball from Tahir straight to mid wicket and let out a scream as he walked off. He fell four short of a well deserved fifty but the 127-run stand had put India back on track. Dhawan was still looking in excellent touch . Fightback : How good have Kohli and Dhawan been ? Incredible calmness under pressure. It was very similar to their 129-run stand in the opening game against Pakistan. South Africa need to break this and soon. The pressure was beginning to show. Dale Steyn was brought back into the attack by de Villiers in the 25th over. Dhawan handled the short balls deftly this time. A few expletives escaped Steyn 's mouth when an overthrow was conceded. Summed up South Africa 's situation. Desperate for a breakthrough . Good signs for India Dhawan & Kohli - first Indian pair to put on a 100-partnership in back to back World Cup matches. They had added 129 vs Pak. # cwc15 # IndvsSA — Rajneesh Gupta ( @ rgcricket ) February 22 , 2015 Chances and a fifty : Dhawan delivers again He got his second consecutive fifty of the series but Shikhar Dhawan had slices of luck soon after. He cut Parnell to backward point , where Amla put down a tough chance after moving to his right. On 55 , he was caught napping after backing up too far. Kohli had punched the ball back to Duminy , the bowler , who under-armed it behind but missed the stumps. Can Dhawan make it count now ? India were 94/1 after 22 and the partnership was worth 85. Good fightback from India . Kohli , Dhawan rebuild Spin early against the Indian batsmen ? Why ABD ? One possible reason was that Vernon Philander was sidelined due to a tight hamstring. He could come on later in the innings but South Africa will be hampered by his absence. Makes life easier for Dhawan and Kohli though. The former even got enough confidence to smack-pull Morne Morkel to the square leg fence. That contest was getting juicy. Morne was pulled immediately after he hit Dhawan with a sharp bouncer. Then Dhawan shuffled a bit which threw Morne off and forcing him to pull away. Another short ball followed , another pull tried but this time a top edge. Fortunately for Dhawan , it fell short of fine leg . OMG , now it 's just getting more confusing.. . Did you see Me taking a selfie just now ? # Sachin # IndvsSA — God ( @ TheTweetOfGod ) February 22 , 2015 Spin in early JP Duminy came into the attack in just the 9th over while Tahir came on immediately after the powerplay. India just 36/1 after the first 10 but Dhawan and Kohli are looking more confident now. South Africa have been exceptional on the field. Contributed as much to building pressure as the bowling itself. One of these two will have to take some risks and hope it pays off. South Africa ahead at this point . Is he God or not ? My moment of the day... sachin Tendulkar taking a selfie at the MCG. Now I know he 's a human like all of us. # SAvsIND # CWC15 — Shirin Sadikot ( @ ShirinSadikot ) February 22 , 2015 Cricket takes a back seat Had to happen if you show Sachin Tendulkar on the giant screen. The famous 'Sachin , Sachiiin ' chants began for a brief while as well. Huge Indian fan contingent in already and making a lot of noise. Should n't be a worried lot. God 's on their side , no ? Sachin Tendulkar in the flesh , plus a million fans crushing each other pic.twitter.com/E2x8wkpJMR — Missus Couch ( @ MissusCouch ) February 22 , 2015 © BCCI Strategy : Watch out for the short balls , Dhawan He was driving quite fluently but clearly Dhawan 's biggest problem was handling the short ball. One from Steyn hit him on the body even as he tried away away awkwardly. The next one was again short but Dhawan played a limp pull that landed inches short of square leg. Philander was doing it in the next over with the fine leg in and square leg out in the deep . Against Kohli , Steyn stuck to the outswingers outside off. Pretty straightforward but this contest - Steyn v Kohli should be a real treat . Well , of course. God knows it all . Sachin Tendulkar explicitly pointed to South Africa 's infield as making life difficult for India . — cricketingview ( @ cricketingview ) February 22 , 2015 Starts : Rohit run out for a duck Steyn bowls a maiden to Rohit straightaway. Only one went past the outside edge in the over though. However , he did not face another ball. Dhawan dabbed to cover where the fielder made a superb diving stop. AB de Villiers came in from mid-off quickly. It resulted in a lot of hesitation. Rohit was sent back finally but ABD had already broken the stumps with a direct hit. Rohit 's dive went in vain . Umesh , Shami , Mohit , Jadeja and Ashwin are warming up. So , looks like there will be no changes to the Indian playing XI # CWC15 # IndvsSA — Cricbuzz ( @ cricbuzz ) February 22 , 2015 Toss : India opt to bat MS Dhoni made no changes to the team that played against Pakistan. Both captains reckoned that it was a bat-first wicket. Dhoni had luck going his way at the toss. South Africa got in Wayne Parnell for Farhaan Behardien. That was their only change . India ( Playing XI ) : Rohit Sharma , Shikhar Dhawan , Virat Kohli , Suresh Raina , Ajinkya Rahane , MS Dhoni ( w/c ) , Ravindra Jadeja , Ravichandran Ashwin , Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav , Mohit Sharma South Africa ( Playing XI ) : Quinton de Kock ( w ) , Hashim Amla , Faf du Plessis , AB de Villiers ( c ) , David Miller , Jean-Paul Duminy , Wayne Parnell , Vernon Philander , Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel , Imran Tahir Ah , so we are going to have Steyn v Rohit first up. Those two have a history themselves. Should be interesting straightaway . Build up : India aim to break jinx The vast , empty and silent terraces of the Melbourne Cricket Ground lay in anticipation on Saturday for Sunday 's ICC Cricket World Cup Group B game between India and South Africa to electrify the vast hordes of fans enjoying a battle royale on what looks like a bald , hard pitch . A fortnight ago , any optimism around Sunday 's match being a competitive battle would have been looked at with disdain. But the emphatic manner in which India secured victory over Pakistan in Adelaide as well as South Africa 's less than convincing show against Zimbabwe in Hamilton last week have combined to heighten expectations of a keen battle . Shane Warne reckons it is a bat-first wicket. Good crowd in already . © Cricbuzz
