Tendulkar makes debut as World Cup spectator at iconic MCG Melbourne , Sun , Feb 22 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Sunday , 22 February , 2015 , 05 : 44 AM Tendulkar got a thunderous welcome from the jam-packed MCG. © AFP Sachin Tendulkar once reportedly walked his wife , Anjali , to the middle of the vast Melbourne Cricket Ground and told her to imagine 80,000 fans in its terraces and 11 competitive Australian cricketers squaring up against the batsmen . On Sunday , when India took on South Africa in the ICC Cricket World Cup , the little big man joined the ranks of the spectators at the iconic venue for the first time , even taking a selfie as nearly all Indian fans did at the first available opportunity. Surely , he would have felt goosebumps like everyone else does . It was not his most cherished venues in Australia. The Sydney Cricket Ground was easily accorded that honour. But a venue where he made a century as captain in the Boxing Day Test in 1999 and where he made 449 runs in five Tests as well as 190 runs in seven ODIs , he was making his debut as a World Cup spectator . The most prolific batsman in cricket history , not to speak of World Cup history , Tendulkar could not have chosen a better venue to debut as a spectator. Of course , unlike all others in the stands , the whole crowd roared in delight when images of his presence at the ground were flashed on the giant screens . Indeed , there is something about watching cricket at the Melbourne Cricket Ground or the G as they call it that few other venues offer. Of course , spectating at Eden Gardens in Kolkata and the Bull Ring ( Wanderers in Johannesburg ) are unique in their own way but you have to grant it to the MCG , especially the one that is bathed in India blue and the Tricolour . The stadium was not quite full when the National Anthems were played but with more than 50,000 proud Indian fans joining in , Jana Gana Mana reverberated through the stadium so loudly that they did not need to play the track on the MCG 's audio systems. The cheers than rent the air caused a few seconds ' delay before the South African anthem could be played . India vice-captain Virat Kohli admitted on Saturday that hearing thousands of fans sing the National Anthem inspired the team in Adelaide and he expected a similar feeling on Sunday. He was not off the mark. It was a soul-lifting experience . The stadium went into a hush when Rohit Sharma was run out without scoring but the crowd found its collective voice when Kohli walked in to join his Delhi team-mate Shikhar Dhawan and went on to post their second successive century stand. Each boundary hit or a dropped catch was accompanied by a massive roar . Yet , long before the Anthems were played and Dhawan flicked Vernon Philander to the square-leg boundary to make the Indian fans go delirious , it was obvious that the MCG would offer something really special in terms of viewing experience. A good performance by India would be a bonus and lift the fans , too . The fans came from far and near from Hong Kong and Texas , from Dubai and England , from Durban and Pretoria ( even if these were a minuscule minority ) , from Adelaide and Brisbane. Each one contributed to the remarkable atmosphere at the MCG but Sachin Tendulkar , watching his first game at the venue as a VIP spectator , added to that in his own way . © Cricbuzz Tags
