Dhawan repays Dhoni 's faith with well-crafted century Melbourne , Sun , Feb 22 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Tuesday , 17 March , 2015 , 05 : 35 AM Shikhar Dhawan scored a career-best 137. © Getty Shikhar Dhawan epitomised two things justifying the faith of the men who matter and making a team pay for a dropped catch when he made his maiden century in ICC Cricket World Cup , against South Africa on a pitch that did not have its characteristic pace at the spectacular Melbourne Cricket Ground on Sunday . Dhawan 's 137 ( 146 balls , 16 fours , two sixes ) was the fulcrum around which India posted 307 for 7 in 50 overs after Mahendra Singh Dhoni won the toss. He was joined by Virat Kohli ( 46 , 60 balls , three fours ) and Ajinkya Rahane ( 79 , 60 balls , seven fours , three sixes ) in successive century stands that delighted the decidedly partisan crowd . Reckoned and not without reason as one of the best in the competition , South Africa 's attack was hamstrung by the absence of Vernon Philander after he bowled his opening spell of four overs. It needed Dale Steyn and Morne Morkel to overcome the challenge posed by a combination of a slow track and determined Indian batting . For the second match , India touched the 300-run mark but the team could have added a few more had they not lost a rash of wickets in the death. India lost five wickets in the span of 37 deliveries. The team has now been left hoping that their spinners , R Ashwin , Ravindra Jadeja and , perhaps , Suresh Raina would keep the South African strokeplayers in check . For close to three months , the left-handed opener has lurched from city to city in Australia searching for a familiar touch , let alone a semblance of form , that had seemed to have deserted him. His well-crafted century was ample reward for his captain Dhoni 's support through difficult times when many were baying for blood . Having seen Rohit Sharma return to the pavilion after he was run out by a direct hit by South African captain AB de Villiers , Dhawan dominated a century stand with Kohli. After a couple of short deliveries appeared to cause him some discomfort because of a lack of pace , he assessed the conditions to a nicety and played himself in . He was in sublime touch and back in Delhi , Virender Sehwag and Gautam Gambhir would have been nodding in delight. A straight six over pace bowler Dale Steyn 's head was a peach and when he followed it with an upper cut over the wicketkeeper 's head , it was obvious that Dhawan would make South Africa pay for a life Hashim Amla afforded him at 53 . Dhoni 's decision to have Rahane bat after Kohli pulled an Imran Tahir delivery that kept lower than expected into the hands of short mid-wicket was rooted in a logical approach. It allowed India to challenge the South Africans with a left-hand-right-hand combination besides having a classical batsman in the middle . Rahane was both aggressive and innovative. During the batting Powerplay , with India intent on not losing wickets , he played a delightful , if risky , inside out drive and a superb square drive in one Morkel over. It led to India picking up 44 runs in the batting Powerplay , something of a rarity for India in the recent times . It must be said that though Dhawan 's century hogged the limelight , Rahane 's impeccable strokeplay was illuminating itself. For someone who overcame thoughts of a golden duck on World Cup debut last week , Rahane 's range of strokes and his ability to crank up the scoring rate effortlessly was worthy of praise . Dhawan 's century seventh in ODIs came in the city where his wife hails from would have made it really special for him. As it was for the noisy sea of blue that packed all levels of the wonderful MCG. But none would have been as pleased as Dhawan himself who celebrated his ton with outstretched arms , bat in one hand and helmet in the other . Dhawan had missed out on a hundred against Pakistan in Adelaide when he was run out but on Sunday , there was a sense of relief , joy and gratitude packed in that one moment that came as culmination of many moments over a long period of time. It was a moment to cherish for the thousands of Indian hearts . © Cricbuzz Tags
