Calum MacLeod , proudly carrying Scotland 's flag Christchurch , Sun , Feb 22 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Sunday , 22 February , 2015 , 08 : 58 AM MacLeod is one of Scotland 's best players. © Getty Somewhere among the 5,086 spectators sitting in the stands at New Road in Worcester on May 16 , 1999 , an 11-year-old Scottish boy sat next to his father and watched Glenn McGrath bowl against his countrymen in a group stage match of the World Cup. He had already been exposed to cricket - his father Donald was a keen member of Drumpellier CC - but sitting there on that breezy afternoon in Worcester , something stirred inside a young Calum MacLeod . " My earliest memory of proper international cricket was the 1999 World Cup in England. I remember going to watch a couple of games , the first of which was Scotland 's game at Worcester versus Australia , and it was just amazing , " recalls 26-year-old MacLeod , now Scotland 's hard-hitting opening batsman and one of their best players , sitting in the empty stands of Christchurch 's Hagley Oval on a slow-moving Sunday. " Id watched a lot of cricket before , going to the club with my father and growing up in that club atmosphere , but that day was something else. From there , it 's been just cricket. I 'm a bit of cricket nutter now. " Scotland lost to Australia by six wickets , but watching McGrath in the flesh left an impact. " Growing up as a bowler , Glenn McGrath was No 1 , " he says. " I 'm sure you 'll find hundreds of kids my age who would say the exact same thing. Growing up watching him , watching his competitiveness , his skill level , his desire to win and to be in the game it 's just something that was n't really matched , or certainly it does n't look like it from afar. " MacLeod has not had the chance to meet his idol but has spent time with another fast bowling icon - South Africa 's Allan Donald , when he was bowling coach at Warwickshire. " What an incredible experience that was , " he says , his eyes looking out at Hagley Oval where his team-mates are starting to train. " Just to chat to him , to listen to him and to hear him tell stories , talk about certain games. Things you just could n't put a price on. You learn from them. It was great. " In 2008 , aged 19 , MacLeod was signed by Warwickshire on a two-year contract. He had spent the previous two summers training with the county side and was fresh from a stint in Australia. McLeod was one of Scotland 's quickest bowlers but his career hit a major roadblock when in 2009 his action was reported as illegal . " It was an ongoing problem leading into the 2009 ICC Intercontinental Cup. I 'd gotten into some problems , some real bad habits with my action , and I started to throw it , " he explains. " After the Canada-Scotland game in Aberdeen I got reported , which meant I had to go away and do some work. That 's where I started working with Donald. I had to work my way back and I tried it for the first couple of years , just as a bowler. Trying to figure out what the best way to bowl the ball was. I 've got to a stage now where I can run up and bowl with a straight arm , but I would n't be able to sustain a career that way I bowl. " MacLeod 's time with Warwickshire did not end up with the desired results - he was released at the end of 2010 - but credit to the team environment and support staff for developing and helping him immensely. " It did n't work out as I would have liked , but I picked up a lot of good work habits while working with a lot of good people at the club , " he says . Faced with the prospect of giving up cricket or continuing to look for opportunities in England was extremely tough. Though Cricket Scotland realised his potential and awarded him a summer contract in 2011 , MacLeod had to , in his own words , find a way back into the game he loved. " I was probably lucky that it was n't a World Cup like this. We had n't qualified for a couple of years , so I was able to experiment a little bit more , " he says of his transformation into a successful Scotland opener. " Being an aggressive batsman , the management was able to say to me 'go on , go and be aggressive , express yourself ' and that allowed me to come back into the side. The real moments were staring to learn about batting , scoring hundreds. " A chat with Kyle Coetzer , Scotland captain 's at the time , helped MacLeod in his journey of self-discovery. Coetzer , who is now vice-captain , was straightforward in his advice to the youngster : you 're just getting pretty twenties , thirties and forties , often off less balls , but we need more from you . " He was quite straightforward , " remembers MacLeod. " His point was that even if means your strike-rate comes down and you score bigger runs , we are happy to give you a bit more of a license to run the innings. If you get big runs , we benefit. So it was probably Kyle demanding a lot more of me , and so I put myself under more pressure to achieve what he 'd asked me to do. That was one of the biggest self-discoveries about batting - that it is not just about pretty shots , it is about constructing innings and doing the hard work if it needs to be done. " The results were significant. MacLeod scored four international centuries in 2014 and was a major factor in Scotland qualifying for the 2015 World Cup. He scored consecutive hundreds during the World Cup Qualifiers , a tournament during which Scotland batsmen were known to crumble under pressure. Against the UAE , when elimination still stared Scotland in the face , he slammed 113 from 62 balls to set up a 53-run win in Queenstown. In the next game , right here at Hagley Oval , he blasted 175 from 141 balls , the highest score by an Associate player in an ODI , to drive Scotland to 170-run win over Canada to seal passage to the Super Sixes. His form tapered off in the remaining four games , including getting out for zero in the final against the UAE which Scotland won , but in a sense a saviour was born for the team . Later that year , in September , an unbeaten 116 from 141 balls steered Scotland to a seven-wicket win over Ireland , acknowledged as the best of the Associates , in Dublin.MacLeod has a long pause as he recounts his centuries from 2014. Then he settles on the first one - 113 against the UAE , filled with 12 fours and four sixes. " Yeah , the one against the UAE. It had been a year since I 'd scored a hundred , so to go out and get it off 50-odd balls really set the tone for the rest of the tournament , for how we 'd go about it , " he says. " Having Crossy [ Matthew Cross ] open with me was good , we put on a big stand and that gave me confidence to go out and be aggressive and play that brand of cricket. That hundred helped me develop the others. " Today , MacLeod is a fixture in the Scotland team and , like Gavin Hamilton two decades ago , the big hope of Scottish cricket. Hamilton was a part of Scotland 's 1999 World Cup team and played in that game against Australia. MacLeod , a Glaswegian , was too young to understand the impact a player like Hamilton was having at the time , but as he progressed as a teenager and in his cricket , he learnt about such names and what their careers meant. " Gavs is probably one of Scotland cricket 's biggest names , you could call him the poster boy of Scottish cricket in the late 90s and early 2000s. He had a great World Cup and he was lucky enough to progress on and have a successful county cricket career and play a game for England , " he says . Macleod stressed the importance of Scotland doing well at the World Cup , considering they have to win matches to have a shot at the 2019 tournament , which is effectively being downsized. There is a two-man TV crew from Edinburgh traveling with the team , filming footage for a documentary on Scotland cricket , with the approval of Cricket Scotland. They have been granted access into the dressing room , to get a proper insight into how the team runs. MacLeod is aware of the coverage back home , and what it means for Scottish cricket . " I spoke to my two brothers , and they say its been on quite a lot , " he says. " Some good coverage , certainly far more than normal because it 's the World Cup , but that comes with its own pitfalls. We 've got to perform. People back home know we 're out here , so they 'll be expecting results from us. It is important that we take that increased coverage and try and make use of it. Try and get some wins and grow the game. " I remind MacLeod of the significance of Scotland v England - the two countries are international football 's oldest rivalries - before he leaves to join his team-mates in practice. " Any time a Scotland team beats an England side , it 's always well received back home , " he says , " but we do n't want to just focus on this one match. We know we 've got to go out and replicate what we 've been doing for the last 12-8 months , and if we do we 're going to have a good game.' As we wind up our chat , Grant Bradburn , the former New Zealand international who is the current Scotland coach , is standing on the field behind the white picket fence running around the perimeter of Hagley Oval , a small whiteboard in his hands. On it is scribbled the team 's routine for the day , and Bradburn smiles for the TV camera. If the Scotland camp has any nerves ahead of their game against England on Monday , they are n't showing it . Come Monday , and there will be a good number of people gathered at Drumpellier to watch Scotland face England , the Auld Enemy. Maybe MacLeod will click , and maybe a young boy watching on TV back home will be inspired. Just like in 1999 . © Cricbuzz Tags
