Stats : Dhawan 's feat and India make a statement Sun , Feb 22 2015 by Siddharth Vishwanathan Last updated on Sunday , 22 February , 2015 , 12 : 53 PM India have never lost an ODI when Shikhar Dhawan has scored a century. © Getty The first week of the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup saw plenty of action. The batsmen ruled the roost while bowlers toiled. The host nations , Australia and New Zealand , put in a fine show while India turned their form around spectacularly. However , the Associate nations stood up and made some big statements. Here is a look back at the statistical highlights from Week One of the tournament . - Aaron Finch became the fourth Australian player to score a century on World Cup debut when he notched up a century against England at the MCG. The previous three were Andrew Symonds , Trevor Chappell and Geoff Marsh . - Steven Finn became the first England bowler to take a hat-trick in the World Cup when he achieved the feat against Australia at the MCG . - Mitchell Marsh picked up a five-wicket haul on his World Cup debut. It was also his maiden five-wicket haul in ODIs. He is the seventh player and third Australian to pick up a five-wicket haul on World Cup debut . - Kumar Sangakkara became the second-highest run-scorer in ODIs during his knock of 39 in the opening match against New Zealand in Christchurch . - Hamilton Masakadza went past 4,000 ODI runs during Zimbabwe 's clash against South Africa in Hamilton. He is the fifth Zimbabwe player to go past 4,000 runs in ODIs . - David Miller and JP Duminy shared 256 runs for the fifth wicket against Zimbabwe in Hamilton , which is a world record in ODIs. The previous best was 226 between Ravi Bopara and Eoin Morgan against Ireland at Dublin in 2013 . - Virat Kohli became the first Indian batsman to score a World Cup hundred against Pakistan. This was his 22nd ODI century and his second against Pakistan. The previous highest score by an Indian batsman against Pakistan in World Cups was Sachin Tendulkar 's 98 at Centurion in the 2003 edition . - Pakistan pace bowler Sohail Khan picked up a five-wicket haul during the match against India in Adelaide. He achieved it on World Cup debut and he is the first Pakistan bowler to do that . - For the first time in World Cup history , the team batting first has notched up a total of 300 in the first five matches. Australia 's 341/7 is the highest total so far in this edition of the World Cup . - Ireland is the only Associate nation to win matches in all three editions of the World Cup in which they have featured. They defeated Pakistan in 2007 , England and Netherlands in 2011 and West Indies in 2015. In fact , Ireland chased down 307 against West Indies in Nelson. It was the third time that Ireland had chased down a target of over 300 in World Cups , the most by any team . - Tim Southee achieved the best bowling figures by a New Zealand bowler in ODIs when he picked up 7/33 against England in Wellington. These are the third-best bowling figures in the World Cup and he also became the third New Zealand bowler to take a five-wicket haul in World Cups after Sir Richard Hadlee in 1983 and Shane Bond in 2003 . - Brendon McCullum scored a fifty off 18 balls , the fastest in World Cup history. He had also held the previous record when he smashed a fifty off 20 balls against Canada in St Lucia in the 2007 edition . - Pakistan lost four wickets for just one run against West Indies in Christchurch , which is the lowest ever scored by a top four in an ODI . - West Indies defeated Pakistan by 150 runs , the biggest win for West Indies in ODIs against Pakistan in terms of runs . - Hamid Hassan picked up his 50th ODI wicket during Afghanistan 's match against Sri Lanka in Dunedin. He is the quickest bowler to get the landmark among the Associate nations. He is the sixth-fastest overall to get to the landmark , having gotten there in his 26th ODI . - Lahiru Thirimanne and Tillakaratne Dilshan departed for golden ducks against Afghanistan in Dunedin. This is only the second time in ODI history that both openers departed for golden ducks. Before Dilshan and Thirimanne , Zimbabwe openers Piet Renke and Terry Duffin departed for golden ducks against West Indies in Georgetown in 2006 . - Mahela Jayawardene scored his 19th ODI century and his fourth in World Cups. He has scored the most hundreds by a Sri Lankan batsman in this tournament and is third in the all-time list of centuries. Sachin Tendulkar has six while Ricky Ponting has five . - Jeevan Mendis and Thisara Perera shared a 58-run stand for the seventh wicket to help Sri Lanka defeat Afghanistan in Dunedin. This is a record seventh-wicket partnership for Sri Lanka in World Cups . - Mahela Jayawardene became the fourth Sri Lankan batsman to go past 1,000 runs in World Cups. The other players to have achieved this feat are Sanath Jayasuriya , Aravinda de Silva and Kumar Sangakkara . - Shikhar Dhawan 's knock of 137 is the highest by a batsman against South Africa in World Cups. He went past Stephen Fleming 's knock of 134 in Johannesburg in 2003 . - India 's total of 307/7 is their highest ODI total at the MCG. Their previous best was 270 against Australia in 2004 . - India registered their first victory against South Africa in World Cups. They have become the first Asian team and the sixth team overall to defeat every team in the World Cup. In all ICC events , India now hold a 8-4 advantage against South Africa . © Cricbuzz
