Moeen scored 128 and picked up 2/47 Kyle Coetzer top scored for Scotland Moeen Ali scored 128 and took 2/47 to lead England to their first win of the World Cup. © Getty End of match update : Moeen stars in England 's first win After consecutive defeats to Australia and New Zealand , England registered a 119-run win over neighbours Scotland after bowling out their opponents for 184 having registered a competitive 303. Put into bat after losing the toss , England were boosted by a solid 172-run opening stand between Moeen Ali and Ian Bell. Ali in particular was at his fluent best , stroking freely square off the wicket on either side. Scotland fought back either sides of the batting powerplay when they took 4/31 to restrict England to 304 , a par score on a reasonably flat wicket in Christchurch . Scotland began earnestly but struggled to get partnerships going. Kyle Coetzer was their top-scorer with 71 and once he fell to Moeen 's off-spin , the writing was on the wall for them. By virtue of their win , England climb out of the bottom of the Group A table. They next face Sri Lanka in a crucial encounter . Wicket : Pacers remove final two wickets Alasdair Evans was the 9th man to fall for Scotland with the score on 184 when he edged a James Anderson delivery to Jos Butler. Majid Haq then fell to a short delivery from Chris Woakes to give England a 119-run win . Wicket : Anderson dismisses Evans Alasdair Evans was the 9th man to fall for Scotland with the score on 184 when he edged a James Anderson delivery to Jos Butler . Wicket : Three for Finn WICKET ! ! Finny claims a three-fer ! Paceman 's delivery gets high on Cross ( 23 ) & he splices ball to Root in slips. 160-8 # EngvSco # CWC15 — England Cricket ( @ ECB_cricket ) February 23 , 2015 Wicket : Finn gets Davey Finn put behind the ghosts of the McCullum bashing to pick up his second wicket of the day. He dismissed Josh Davey with a length delivery outside off that took the outside edge and carried to the keeper. England edged closer to their first win of the tournament even as Moeen Ali bowled out his 10 overs having taken two wickets . Tweet : Gim me 'Mo' WICKET ! Mo claims second victim ! Berrington ( 8 ) flicks ball hard to mid-wicket & Morgan grabs another good catch , 128-6 # EngvSco # CWC15 — England Cricket ( @ ECB_cricket ) February 23 , 2015 Wickets : Root removes Mommsen ; Coetzer falls to Moeen Scotland skipper Preston Mommsen was dismissed when an attempted sweep shot to a Joe Root off-spinner ballooned up in the air towards the deep square-leg fielder where Stuart Broad completed a neat catch. The dismissal ended a 60-run stand between the Scotland skipper and Kyle Coetzer. Scotland 114/4 . Moeen backed his sparkling century with the wicket of Kyle Coetzer who had motored along to 71. The Scottish opener stepped to hit Ali over straight back over the bowler 's head but a leading catch took the ball straight to the long-on fielder . Moeen picked up his second wicket when Richie Berrington found the short midwicket fielder with an uppish flick shot . Milestone : Mommsen-Coetzer add 50 ; Scotland 100 The fourth wicket stand between Scotland skipper Preston Mommsen and Kyle Coetzer reached 50 after the former swept Joe Root for a four behind square leg. The duo started circumspectly but then hit a flurry off boundaries to push Scotland past the 100 mark in the 22nd over . Kyle Coetzer scored his sixth ODI fifty to keep Scotland 's hopes alive. © Getty Milestone : Kyle Coetzer gets fifty Kyle Coetzer completed his sixth ODI half-century , off 64 balls , to keep Scotland 's hopes of springing a surprise on their fancied neighbours alive. The right-hander handled James Anderson 's first spell particularly well , punching the experienced seamer off the back-foot through the covers. Kyle Coetzer needs to bat long if Scotland are to overhaul England 's total of 304 . Wickets : Woakes ends blossoming stand ; Machan falls early Chris Woakes picked up a wicket , that of Freddie Coleman , with his first delivery as England nipped a budding partnership in the bud to reduce Scotland to 47/2. Coleman hit a full delivery straight into the hands of the cover fielder . Steven Finn then had Matt Machan edge to the keeper with a length delivery on off-stump. Machan who scored a fighting fifty against New Zealand could n't replicate his form for the England game . Update : Scotland solid despite losing MacLoed Kyle Coetzer continued scoring at a healthy clip , punching fours off the back-foot through the cover-point region. He scored a run-a-ball 35 as Scotland reached 47-1 after 10 overs . Tweet : World Cups not your thing , Jimmy ? MacLeod out. Anderson has 1st wkt of the tournament , in his 17th over. Now 5-398 off 60 in the last 2 World Cups. 10-225 off 47 in 2002-3 — Andy Zaltzman ( @ ZaltzCricket ) February 23 , 2015 Wicket : Coetzer survives ; MacLoed falls Kyle Coetzer got a reprieve as early as the fourth ball when Ian Bell dropped a tough chance at slip. Coetzer and MacLeod then struck a boundary each as Scotland got 9 off the first over. MacLoed was n't as lucky in Anderson 's next over , edging it to the keeper , looking to step out hit the master bowler over the in-field . Tweet : Upset on the cards ? A glorious sunny afternoon for a World Cup upset.... # cwc15 # ENGvSCO pic.twitter.com/tFR6rx55wg — Innocent Bystander ( @ InnoBystander ) February 23 , 2015 Ali and Bell shared a 172-run stand for the opening wicket before England lost their way. © Getty End of innings update : England reduced to 303 as Butler , Morgan , Woakes fall looking for quick runs Jos Butler , Eoin Morgan and Chris Woakes were all dismissed in the final overs of England 's innings as Butler smashed a length ball straight down the throat of the long-off fielder. Josh Davey then snapped up Eoin Morgan and Chris Woakes in the final over to restrict England to 303 when at one point they looked to get much more . Moeen Ali slammed a 107-ball 128 and shared a 172-run opening stand with Ian Bell to propel England past the 200-mark in the 34th over. Unfortunately for them , the attack never came. They added only 102 in the final 15 overs , including a measly 22 in the powerplay , losing seven wickets in the process as Scotland pulled things back expertly. Eoin Morgan smacked a couple to the boundary in the end to push England past the 300 mark . On a flat batting track , Scotland with a little bit of application , could overhaul 300 . Update : Morgan steady ; Taylor falls Eoin Morgan continued to look busy in the crease , motoring along into the thirties , even as James Taylor fell to an excellent piece of wicket-keeping from Matthew Cross. Having seen the batsman step out , Josh Davey fired one wide outside off-stump. The keeper collected the take low down to his right and took the bails off before Taylor could get back . England reached 276/5 after 47 overs. To their credit , Scotland bowled excellently to restrict England , who at one stage looked set to post a score in excess of 350 . Tweet : Slower than Majid — Mazher Arshad ( @ cricket_U ) February 23 , 2015 Wicket : Root falls ; 4/31 for Scotland after 172-run opening stand Joe Root was the fourth man down England when he outside edged a fine length delivery on the channel outside off-stump from Josh Davey to the keeper. England lost four wickets for 31 runs after their 172-run opening stand . Wickets : Bell falls after Moeen ton ; Moeen , Ballance follow Ian Bell 's patient sojourn at the crease came to an end when he hit a full delivery from Richie Berrington straight into the hands of cover fielder Kyle Coetzer. Bell played 85-deliveries to score his 54 and largely struggled for his timing. May turn out to be a blessing in disguise for England in their quest for quick runs . Ali , departed on the stroke of the batting powerplay when another slog sweep off Majid Haq found the deep mid-wicket fielder to perfection. He made 128 off 107 balls . England 's decision to promote Gary Ballance backfired when he under-edge a short wide delivery from Alasdair Evans back onto his stumps in the first over of the powerplay . Moeen Ali acknowledges the crowd after scoring his cenury © Getty Milestone : Moeen Ali ton propels England Moeen Ali composed a sparkling ton , off 91 deliveries as Scotland continued bowling listlessly under overcast conditions. In stark contrast to the innings played by his opening partner , Ian Bell , Moeen signalled his positive intent early on , repeatedly pulling the short-deliveries the square boundary. His innings was laden with nine 4s and four 6s. England should get a move on from now and look to post close to 350 . Update : Ian Bell compiles patient half-century Ian Bell got to his half-century with a punch to extra-cover. Bell 's got to his fifty off his 80th ball on a day when he played an agonizingly slow second-fiddle to Moeen Ali. The openers put on 150 for the opening stand in the 26th over but preferred to largely knock the ball around in the middle overs . Tweet : Jokes. Jokes everywhere Time for some more " Majid Haq so slow he bowl to WG Grace and it still in flight " jokes . — Devanshu ( @ dbackwardpoint ) February 22 , 2015 Update : Majid Haq bowls slow. Really slow . Off-break bowler Majid Haq refused to play the speed game. The slowness of his deliveries became the subject of myriad discussions on commentary and on social media even as Moeen Ali continued to milk the Scotland bowling . Who is the slowest bowler you 've ever seen ? Darren Maddy ? Jeremy Snape ? Has the slowest ball ever bowled been tracked ? Let us know. Tweet @ cricbuzz or use the comment action below to share your views. The best ones will feature on the live blog . Moeen and Bell put on a solid opening stand. © Getty Milestone update : Moeen 50 ; Spin is inScotland resorted to the off-breaks of Majid Haq after their medium pacers were rendered largely ineffective by Moeen Ali. Josh Davey , in particular , conceded seven an over and Iain Wardlaw , despite the occasional good delivery could n't give Scotland the early wicket they dearly needed after electing to field first . Meanwhile Moeen Ali raced away to a 40-ball 50 , playing fluent strokes either side of the wicket even as Ian Bell batted circumspectly , struggling to get his timing going. Nevertheless , England looking good for a big score. They reached 100 without losing a wicket in the 17th over . Milestone : An innings well begun 10 overs gone & @ ECB_cricket has raced to 58-0. Could be a high scoring match. http : //t.co/Dha8q87tnp # ENGvSCO pic.twitter.com/YTaS4lF4id — Cricket World Cup ( @ cricketworldcup ) February 22 , 2015 Discussion : 'You do n't see Liverpool wearing Red when they play at Old Trafford' I 'm an avid follower of football and only just took to following cricket. I must admit , I was a little taken aback seeing 22 players wearing similar kit shades. You do n't see Liverpool wearing Red when they play at Old Trafford. Cricket should adopt . - writes John Matthew from Coventry . Update : Ali , Moeen off to a solid start Moeen Ali and Ian Bell batted circumspectly before Ali opened up against a struggling Josh Davey , cover driving the medium pacer for a couple of boundaries before lofting him over mid-off for a maximum. Davey , who started with a couple of wides consistently erred in his length and was duly punished . The Bleed Blue Nike campaign may need specification on the shade of blue. © Getty Discussion : Kit clashing in cricket As the teams line-up for the national anthems , here is a question. Should cricket consider using home and away kits for teams , especially in big events like World Cups ? Makes for a pleasurable viewing experience for a new follower of the game. Too many teams in different shades of blue at the moment.Australia , for one , alternate between their gold and green jerseys . What is the other user use of designating home and away teams in a game played at a neutral venue besides the coin tossing rights ? Read more about it here and leave your tweets ( @ cricbuzz ) , comments ( facebook ) and mails ( submissions @ cricbuzz.com ) . We will feature the best on the live blog . Tweet : Here we go. The match has n't even begun England are UNCHANGED ? After the worst defeat in history ? Unbelievable. # EngvScot # WCC15 — Piers Morgan ( @ piersmorgan ) February 22 , 2015 Update : Pitch it up at the Hagley Do n't bowl short on this wicket. Pitch it up , use the overhead conditions, says Former England captain Sir Ian Botham Here , start your day with this stat -England last nine ODI results batting first - LLLWLLLLL Tweet : It 's possible . — Alec Swann ( @ RonSwann76 ) February 22 , 2015 Tweet : A reflection of the mood in England ? — Innocent Bystander ( @ InnoBystander ) February 22 , 2015 Toss : England inserted under overcast conditions Scotland skipper Peter Mommsen won the toss under overcast conditions in Christchurch and inserted an unchanged and under-fire England in to bat. Interesting for a couple of reasons. Scotland have played a lot of cricket at the Hagley Oval en-route their qualification to the World Cup. A couple of days earlier , They were reduced to 12/4 by New Zealand. A good toss to win . England need the points from this game. After being blown away by Tim Southee , their batsman now have face the challenge of having to bat under overcast conditions where the new ball is expected to do that little bit. Plotting against them is former Englishman Paul Collingwood , who now coaches the Scotland Cricket Team . Playing XI : Scotland : Kyle Coetzer , Calum MacLeod , Freddie Coleman , Matt Machan , Preston Mommsen ( c ) , Richie Berrington , Matthew Cross ( w ) , Josh Davey , Majid Haq , Alasdair Evans , Iain Wardlaw England : Ian Bell , Moeen Ali , Gary Ballance , Joe Root , Eoin Morgan ( c ) , James Taylor , Jos Buttler ( w ) , Chris Woakes , Stuart Broad , Steven Finn , James Anderson Eoin Morgan and Peter Moores and have lot of pondering after their twin defeats. © Getty Build-up : England seek first points in WC After consecutive losses against Australia and New Zealand , England will be desperate to get going with a win against Scotland. Eoin Morgan 's men were given a hiding by New Zealand and Scotland will face the brunt of the backlash. Preston Mommsen 's Scotland will be keen to prove that they are no pushovers either. England will not have it easy but will certainly start as clear favorites despite two losses. The pitch at Hagley Oval has been a competitive one with both bowlers and batsmen getting good assistance but both games here so far have seen 300-plus scores. It could be another batter 's game if England bat first . © Cricbuzz
