The side was focussed throughout : Ravi Shastri Mon , Feb 23 2015 Last updated on Monday , 23 February , 2015 , 02 : 26 AM © Getty Praising his players for the emphatic win over South Africa in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Pool B encounter , India team director Ravi Shastri said the management 's decision to stick with Shikhar Dhawan , despite his poor form in the run-up to the showpiece event , proved to be right. Dhawan played an important part in India 's consecutive wins over Pakistan and South Africa , hitting 73 and 137 , and Shastri took potshots at those who had questioned the opening batsman 's place in the squad . " It was a clinical and professional performance , in batting , bowling and fielding , covering all the departments of the game. It was fabulous. When they play like that , you think they can achieve anything. Today , I never thought that the players were detached for a single moment or dropped their guard. They were focussed all through , " Shastri said after India 's 130-run thrashing of South Africa at the MCG . " I would say those people who were asking why Shikhar was there in the ( World Cup ) squad , they do n't know their cricket. He committed some mistakes during Test series against Australia. He got the starts but got out due to mistakes. But now , against Pakistan and today ( Sunday ) , he was fabulous. He did everything right today , in his approach , shot selection , " said the former India all-rounder . Praising the players for their " fabulous " fielding and bowling , Shastri said it felt like it was Australia or South Africa playing , instead of India . " Fielding was fabulous , bowling also. You would think it was Australia or South Africa , not Indian players fielding. But when Australia or South Africa does that , people sit up and say fabulous fielding , not in the case of India. The same while bowling. When our three pacers were bowling 140km/h , people will not say what fabulous bowling , " he said . He conceded that there was a lot of cricket ahead for the Indian team and that the break after the tri-series did a world of good for the players. " There was a lot of cricket before this World Cup. We played great cricket in Test series against Australia which we lost 0-4. The guys were unlucky and the Test series could have been 1-1. Then , there was the tri-series which not everyone gave much importance. But the itinerary of the tri-series was chalked out long time ago. So the players ( had ) to play that also. But everybody knew that the World Cup was what matters. Had we lost these first two matches ( in the World Cup ) , no one would have counted us. So we needed the break after the tri-series and the boys have come stronger , " said Shastri . © PTI
