De Villiers fined for slow over-rate Melbourne , Mon , Feb 23 2015 Last updated on Monday , 23 February , 2015 , 03 : 11 AM South Africa skipper AB de Villiers was fined 20 percent of his match fee for a slow over-rate . If de Villiers is fined for the second time in the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup , he will be suspended for one match . AB de Villiers was fined 20 percent of his match fee for a slow over-rate during South Africa 's loss to India at the MCG. © Getty South Africa skipper AB de Villiers was fined 20 percent of his match fee for a slow over-rate during South Africa 's 130-run loss to India at the MCG and is on the verge of being suspended for one match during the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup . ICC match referee Jeff Crowe ruled that South Africa were behind by one over after time allowances were taken into consideration. Each member of the South Africa team were fined 10 percent of their match fees. If South Africa are fined for a slow over-rate for the second time in this tournament , then de Villiers will be suspended for one match . This was de Villier 's second over-rate offence this year , having been fined during the first ODI against Australia in Perth in November 2014. However , the ICC decided to wipe the slate clean before the tournament and thus the South Africa skipper will not miss the team 's next match against West Indies in Sydney . A statement from the ICC said , " For a captain to be suspended during an ICC event , he must commit two minor over-rate offences or one serious over rate offence during the event. Therefore , if De Villiers is found guilty of one more minor over-rate offence during the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 while acting as captain , he will receive a one-match suspension during the event. If De Villiers does n't get another minor over-rate offence during the event , then he will miss the first one-day international post the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 as this will be his second offence within a 12-month period. " This means that de Villiers will miss South Africa 's next ODI post the tournament , which will be against Bangladesh in Mirpur . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
