Sachin Tendulkar supports cause of Associate nations in World Cup Mon , Feb 23 2015 Last updated on Monday , 23 February , 2015 , 09 : 20 AM Playing more cricket will only help likes of Afghanistan and Ireland more competitive says Tendulkar Tendulkar has thrown his weight behind the inclusion of Associate sides for the 2019 World Cup T20 Cricket and rule changes has resulted in surge of high scores © Getty Sachin Tendulkar has backed the cause of Associate nations ' participation in the Cricket World Cup. ICC ( International Cricket Council ) has proposed a 10-team World Cup in 2019 unlike the 2015 edition where 14 teams are participating. The 2019 edition will have the top eight teams qualifying directly while two more teams will join them after a qualifying round. The move has met with a lot of criticism from supporters of nations like Ireland , Afghanistan amongst others . Tendulkar , the brand ambassador of ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , was of the view that playing against top teams regularly would only help the smaller teams . " When you want the game to globalise , we need to encourage more and more teams to participate , obviously not at the cost of dropping the standard of play but we need to look at how we can get these guys to raise their standard of playing and I think the standard of playing is only going to rise when they start playing against the top sides , " Tendulkar said in an ICC Google Hangout . ICC sees the change in number of teams as a way of making the World Cup more competitive and ensuring that each match remains competitive. On the flip side , there has been argument that it would actually discourage the smaller teams. Tendulkar was keen on the top teams playing against Associate nations on a more regular basis . " I feel even if the top sides send their A-teams , India A could tour Zimbabwe , Bangladesh or Ireland , Scotland and all these teams they need encouragement. For UAE say , Australia-A or New Zealand-A team can go and play with UAE get them that encouragement , " suggested Tendulkar . " I think it 's important that the top teams , the stronger ones play against all these teams as much as possible and not just during the World Cups. To play against them every four years I think we need to look into it and look to encourage them more by making them play international games against top sides . " You see it has been a history from many World Cups ; these sides have always come up with surprises. So West Indies got beaten earlier you know. I feel there is potential and these guys just need that potential to express their talent , " he added . Talking to ICC about the current World Cup , Tendulkar said that the T20 format and change in rules has caused a surge of high scores. Nine out of the first 14 games saw at least one team scoring over 300 . " We 've been witnessing highscoring games because of two reasons. One is because the rule has changed. There is one less fielder outside the circle. So , that makes a huge difference. The game opens up completely and that becomes difficult for bowlers to consistently find those areas to work because there is one less fielder which forces you to bowl different lengths and different lines . " The second point is also the introduction of T20 format , which has allowed the batters to play more risky shots , play innovative shots , and the guys regularly practice these shots in the nets . " How many times in the '80s or '90s did you see someone playing a reverse sweep off a fast bowler , which happens in today 's cricket ? If batsmen have to chase at eight runs an over , it 's not something beyond their reach , because in T20 you play 20 overs with asking run-rate sometimes of nine or even more than that. So it 's just the mental setup and the belief that even if it goes to nine runs and over , we can still hit that target , " said Tendulkar . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
