Fifth bowling option for SA a concern : Barry Richards Mon , Feb 23 2015 by Boria Majumdar Last updated on Monday , 23 February , 2015 , 10 : 20 AM Barry Richards has said he is concerned with the fifth bowling option for South Africa going ahead in this tournament , with Wayne Parnel a serious concern. © Getty He has already created a stir with his comments on ball tampering. South African legend Barry Richards , never one to shy away from talking straight , explained his position soon after the conclusion of the India-South Africa match at the MCG. He also said that India is clearly looking the team to beat with the bowlers stepping up to the plate. Richards is worried about South Africa 's fifth bowling option but maintains that AB De Villiers and his team does have a realistic chance of winning the title. Excerpts from the conversation with Boria Majumdar : Did you expect India to play like the way they played against South Africa or was it a surprise to you especially on a track that had a fair bit of bounce ? Barry Richards - India does have some quality batsmen. I never doubted their potential despite not performing in the Test series or the tri series that followed. Virat Kohli is still the best batsman in this team. He is clearly your X-factor player. He plays late , has the ability to meet the ball just under his eye and that allows him to manoeuvre the ball to wherever he wants. Yes , Dhawan too played brilliantly as did Ajinkya Rahane. All said and done the batting is good enough to deliver in any condition. The concern was with India 's bowling. But with the bowlers coming to the party there is no reason why India ca n't go further in the tournament . Let 's talk South Africa. Are you disappointed at the way the South African bowlers bowled ? I know it is too early to ask this question but will you agree with the favorites tag that has been thrust on South Africa ? Barry Richards - Yes , the bowlers did not bowl well. But that is a one-off. I am more concerned with the fifth bowling option for us going ahead in this tournament. Parnell is a serious concern and while Steyn is a brilliant performer for us , quality teams will exploit the fifth bowler weakness. We definitely have a chance and a good one at that. We had a great chance in 1992 when the rule robbed us of a place in the final. In 1999 , we came close in the semi-final against Australia and this time too we have the team to mount a strong challenge. The real test will come in the knock-outs so that is where the team will have to peak. Whichever team peaks at the right time will have the best chance of winning the title . You have caused a lot of stir by saying what you have on ball tampering. Will you care to explain your position please ? Barry Richards- As always , what is reported is not what I have said. The media has this uncanny knack of reporting what they want people to read. My point is simple. With the way the bat manufacturers are going , they are creating bats that allow men like Chris Gayle a clear unfair advantage over the bowlers. The make of the bats have changed drastically. You call this innovation. I call this bat tampering. It is clearly giving the batters an edge against the poor bowlers . So my suggestion is allow the bowlers to use their natural environment as well. Not a bottle top or a screwdriver to scruff up the ball for that is illegal but if the bowlers use dirt on the field or anything from their natural environment to do something to the ball so that it reverses , I have absolutely no problem with it. Reversing the ball is an art and I think by allowing the bowler to do so you will only make the game more competitive and interesting. At the moment , it is too heavily lopsided in favour of the batsmen . So you mean to say you are perfectly okay if a bowler rubs his hand on the turf and uses the dirt that he picks up to do something to the ball ? Barry Richards - Yes , I am. That 's his natural environment and it is not unfair to use whatever he has in front of him to get up to speed with the batsmen. As I said , improved bats are tagged as innovation while it should be called bat tampering. It is a game of bat and ball and you need to ensure it is a level playing field . Coming back to the World Cup let me ask you your four semi-finalists now that you have watched all the teams in action in the first week of competition ? Barry Richards - I 'd say Australia , India , South Africa and New Zealand. Australia and New Zealand are playing brilliant cricket and are using home conditions quite brilliantly. Both these teams have the firepower to advance to the last four. India has picked up their game and I expect them to top the group. Finally , South Africa has a quality team and it is now up to them to mend the fifth bowler weakness. If they can do it , they have a definite chance . With the crowds that we have seen so far , does it hearten you about the future of the fifty over game ? Barry Richards - I have always maintained that T20 cricket is more entertainment. People go there to be entertained and no one remembers who won and who lost. Test cricket and even 50 over cricket is different. There is no doubt that crowds like what we have seen in Melbourne is brilliant for the game going forward. You need fans to sustain the sport and that 's what we have seen so far in this World Cup. It is a heartening sign for sure . © Cricbuzz
