Dhoni 's India ride combination of reasons to court success Melbourne , Mon , Feb 23 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Monday , 23 February , 2015 , 01 : 10 PM Perhaps players believed that they were playing in Mumbai and not Melbourne © Getty They were no-hopers till 10 days ago and apparently bickering over things like control of reins and batting order but after winning their first two games in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 in the most emphatic fashion , India have seemingly engineered a dramatic reversal of fortunes . Before you proceed further , it will be pertinent to revisit a piece in which this writer suggested that India was using the tri-series to warm-up-to-the-World-Cup . To the discerning , it was clear that the Indians had toned the intensity down a bit to ensure that they would not be jaded , going into the mega event . " A lot of credit needs to be given to the support staff and the team because it is difficult to have the kind of dressing room atmosphere we have despite our recent losses. We get criticised a lot when we are not doing well. You may ignore it to whatever extent but it still plays a part , India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni said on Sunday . So what is it that has made the Indian team turn the tide ? To be sure , there is a combination of many reasons for India 's success in the emotionally draining games against Pakistan and South Africa. One of the most important things the team has done is it be aware of but insulate the players from criticism and reports of dissension in the ranks when the side has not done well . The intensity with which the team has played these two matches was becoming of a world class outfit , the manner in which they have managed the practice sessions in securing optimal preparation and the backing of a set of players with well-defined roles to come good under the Big Tent are areas that the team management and the selectors have been in control of . They have been helped by a couple of key external factors that made these two matches appears like home games familiar tracks that have held no terror to their batsmen and amazing crowd support that has lifted India 's players and perhaps led the opposition to believe that they were playing in Ahmedabad and not Adelaide or in Mumbai and not Melbourne . " We kept it very simple right from the start. We knew it would be slightly tough for us to turn it on for four , four and a half months. We wanted to give players more opportunities in the triseries. There were quite a few players who were injured. We kept the intensity a bit low during the triseries , skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni said . The sense of purpose that each player has taken the field with is there for all to see. Whether it is the batsmen or the bowlers or the fielders or the team leadership , the intensity that they team has shown on the field has been top notch. " They are having fun and are enjoying playing the game , " former India allrounder Ajay Jadeja told Cricbuzz. " The intellectuals call it intensity. " It is what makes the bowling unit look stronger than it really is. For a unit that was believed to be among the weakest that the world 's leading teams have , India have successfully bowled out Pakistan and a stronger South Africa inside 50 overs each. On Sunday , they put the South African attack in shade and making their batsmen look susceptible to short pitched bowling . For backing a chosen set of players and one is not talking of just Shikhar Dhawan or Mohit Sharma alone here Dhoni pointed out that India had invested a lot of time and effort in 15 to 17 cricketers . " They have played many ODIs for India for the last couple of years. When you are putting in so much effort , you have to make sure these individuals turn up for the World Cup because you are giving them minimum 40 to 50 games. To some extent you can say they are the experienced ones. I feel like we kept it simple and that really helped , " he said . Once the players returned from a short break , the team management made sure that it used the practice in the best possible manner. " We requested for a few centre-pitch practice sessions and we gained a lot out of these. We had a few long practice sessions but we made sure that we have complete day off also. We have managed these things well , " Dhoni said . The final is more than a month away. But if India continue to do these things right and the opposition drops crucial catches like Pakistan and South Africa have India may well last the distance . © Cricbuzz
