Dhawan thanks everyone who stood by him Mon , Feb 23 2015 Last updated on Monday , 23 February , 2015 , 03 : 09 PM Dhawan is India 's highest run-getter after two matches. © Getty Shikhar Dhawan is all gratitude after getting back among the runs. After scoring 167 runs in three Tests against Australia and 49 in four matches in the following tri-series , the left-hander from Delhi racked up scores of 73 and 137 against Pakistan and South Africa respectively in the ICC World Cup to help India record big wins in Pool B . Speaking to bcci.tv after India 's 130-run win against the Proteas , Dhawan thanked all who stood by him in tough times. " It feels great to be back in form. I have been waiting for this moment for the past three months. I would like to thank almighty and the support staff , the captain and my team-mates , who have backed me during those times and believed in my abilities. All I can say is I am enjoying my batting at the moment , " the 29-year-old said . Dhawan though admitted it was n't easy to concentrate on his game amid people calling for his head. " I tried my best to stay calm during that phase. I never got afraid or troubled when runs were not coming off my bat. I always had the belief that the tough days will be followed by the good ones. It was important for me to stay mentally calm and stable at that time , " Dhawan , who went into Sunday 's game as the only Indian player in the current team to have scored an ODI ton against the South Africans , said . " I feel the calmness in my temperament has reflected in my batting and helped me get the results. I never felt I was not batting well during that phase. I was getting out in the 20s and 30s. Now , I am converting those starts into big knocks. I am glad that I am doing so at a big stage like the World Cup. " Dhawan also shed light on the team 's strategy against a bowling unit that boasted big names like Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel , Vernon Philander and Imran Tahir. " We all know that South Africa has an experienced and solid pace attack. We did n't want to give them a wicket early on in the innings and we knew we could always accelerate later on in the innings if we did n't get the runs in the initial stages of the game. Being patient was important and we kept building partnerships regularly , " he said . " Virat Kohli and I shared a century stand and I have to say Virat played beautifully. Once he got out , my aim again was to build a partnership with Ajinkya Rahane. There were phases when the game did go slow , but it was important for us to play that phase out with a lot of patience. Once Ajinkya got set he began to accelerate and got the tempo of the game up. It was an incredible innings by Ajinkya. We had an aim to build partnerships at every stage of the innings and we achieved that . " The wicket was just a bit two-paced. There were some bouncers that bounced to a good height while some of them were stopping before coming on to the bat. My aim was to play to the merit of the ball and play to my strengths. There were times when I got beaten and had a few close shaves but all I tried to do was to relax myself at those times and focus on the next delivery. " The Melbourne Cricket Ground saw a sell-out crowd of almost 87,000 , mostly Indians , whose support was important in India 's clinical performance against AB de Villiers ' men. Dhawan did n't forget to thank the fans. " It is an outstanding feeling to see so many Indian supporters here. I am glad that so many supporters turned up today to support us. We have received tremendous support wherever we have played and I believe we are what we are because of the fans. I would like to thank all of them for their support , " he said . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
