Philander out of WI game due to injury Tue , Feb 24 2015 Last updated on Tuesday , 24 February , 2015 , 04 : 07 AM South Africa bowler Vernon Philander is likely to miss the next two games in the World Cup due to a hamstring injury . Kyle Abbott is likely to feature in the game against West Indies in Sydney . Vernon Philander will miss the game against West Indies in Sydney on Friday due to a hamstring injury. © Getty South Africa bowler Vernon Philander will miss the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup game against West Indies in Sydney on Friday and is in doubt for the Ireland game on March 03 due to a hamstring injury. Philander , who went for scans on Monday , has sustained a grade one hamstring strain. He bowled only four overs in the game against India in Melbourne on Sunday and did not take the field for majority of the match. He came out to bat but was dismissed by R Ashwin for 0 . In a release by Cricket South Africa , South Africa team manager Mohammad Moosajee said , " Vernon sustained a Grade 1 hamstring strain which was confirmed by the scans done in Sydney yesterday afternoon. The recovery period for a hamstring strain normally takes a week to 10 days which makes him unavailable for the match against the West Indies in Sydney on Friday. " Moosajee also added that it is too early to tell if Philander will be available for the game against Ireland but stated that the allrounder will be given the best opportunity to regain full fitness. " The Ireland match is eight days away. With the recovery period being a week to 10 days , we have to give him every opportunity to make sure that he can be available. At the same time we do n't want to be foolish by taking short-cuts , we will go through the usual treatment protocols and the return-to-play protocols. If he passes all the fitness tests going into the Ireland game , he may play but at this stage it is too early to tell. " Since his return to the ODI side in 2013 , Philander has put in some decent performances , taking 30 wickets in 18 games at an average of 19.33. His potential absence for the game against West Indies in Sydney throws the door open for Kyle Abbott to return. Abbott , who picked up five wickets in the two warm-up games against Sri Lanka and New Zealand , has not been in great touch in the recent past. In the series against the West Indies , he picked up just two wickets at an economy rate of 7.33 . Wayne Parnell 's poor form is also a concern. In the game against India , he had figures of 9-0-85-1 and his bowling at the death was a concern. Having lost by a big margin to India , South Africa 's game against the West Indies will be a crucial match . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
