Many people wanted me to perform : Gayle Tue , Feb 24 2015 Last updated on Tuesday , 24 February , 2015 , 08 : 45 AM Chris Gayle scored the first double century in World Cups . Gayle survived a close LBW call on the first ball he faced . Chris Gayle was under tremendous pressure heading into the clash against Zimbabwe but he ended up scoring the first double ton in World Cups. © AFP Chris Gayle was struggling for form heading into the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup match against Zimbabwe at Canberra on Tuesday. He had not scored a century for close to 20 months and his average in that period was just below 20. Before the match , there was the tweet controversy involving WICB president Dave Cameron but West Indies skipper Jason Holder rallied around Gayle and said that he is ready for this match . 50 overs later , Gayle came back to form and spectacularly shattered records in the match. He became the first batsman in World Cup history to score a double hundred in World Cups and he became the fourth batsman to score a double hundred in ODIs. Incidentally , he scored a double ton on the same day in which Sachin Tendulkar had scored the format 's first against South Africa five years ago . Speaking after the end of the innings , Gayle said that it was the first time in his career that people wanted to see him perform. " There has been a lot of pressure and the runs have n't been coming. This is the first time in my career , so many people wanted me to score runs and the messages kept coming in , on twitter , on your cellphone and everything - this is the first time I have seen , so many people wanting me to perform so badly and in the end I 'm really glad , I gave them something actually to cheer about. " Gayle had a huge slice of luck in the first ball he had faced. West Indies were jolted early when they lost Dwayne Smith for a second-ball duck and Tinashe Panyangara rapped Gayle on the pads. The shout for LBW was turned down and Zimbabwe opted for the review and Gayle just managed to survive. " I was scared on the first ball. I said , 'Come on - you ca n't be serious. I ca n't be out on the first ball. No , I need a chance and I need a break and I made the best use of it. I just said 'thank god ' and that 's all I did when I put my head on the sky , " he said with relief . He followed a simple method to his batting , a method that had served him well in the past. " You got to take the bull by its horns and try and play some shots and try and put some pressure back on them. And I did n't want to actually dig myself into a shell as well and just try and be aggressive out there and then eventually the field spread , took ones and twos , and when you want to pick it up as well then you can choose which bowler to target and get your runs. That 's how I actually played this innings and I 'm really happy in the end , " he stated . Gayle cheekily admitted that the new rules had favoured the batsman. " To be honest , when the rule was actually created that four players should be outside the ring , I had perhaps scored one half-century in that period. It is a bit easy for batters to score more runs but I decided that if I get past a hundred , I will definitely make it a big one and I 'm happy to get my first double century in ODI cricket. A lot of fans have tweeted about this since Rohit Sharma scored two double-hundreds , you know , Sehwag and those guys , everybody expected me to do it as well , " Gayle stated . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
