WACA waits with bated breath for a slice of World Cup glory Perth , Tue , Feb 24 2015 by Tanmoy Mookherjee Last updated on Tuesday , 24 February , 2015 , 02 : 35 PM The city of Perth is a contrast to its own image. It is vibrant and modern , yet quiet and sleepy The WACA will host three matches in the World Cup Perth will host three World Cup matches. ( Image credit : Tanmoy Mookherjee ) © Cricbuzz The city of Perth is a contrast to its own image. It is vibrant and modern , yet quiet and sleepy. The 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup 's three scheduled matches in the city are fast approaching , but Perth is in no hurry to warm up to it. Clear skies and a bright sun mean it is properly hot even in early mornings , and the walk from Regal Place in East Perth to the cauldron of cricket in this part of the country - albeit short - is tiresome . The neighbourhood streets rising above and below the eye line means the WACA erupts out of nowhere in front of you. Again , the sight of the stadium is contrary to its image. BBL for this season is over and until the World Cup comes along with India playing United Arab Emirates on Saturday , it is eerily quiet ; similar to the neighbourhood it is in. Picture that with the action that unfolds inside so often. Think of an Ashes Test match with home boy Mitchell Johnson steaming in on the fastest pitch in the world and the crowd getting behind him from the Lillee Marsh stand. It is daunting . The two-tier Lillee Marsh stand is named after Western Australian legends Dennis Lillee and Rod Marsh. ( Image credit : Tanmoy Mookherjee ) Unlike the modern structures that have become so familiar across the world , the WACA has retained its quaintness. The MCG , the SCG and even the renovated Adelaide Oval have become giant concrete structures made to pack in thousands. The two main stands at the WACA are at opposite ends of the pitch , while makeshift structures for additional crowds , concrete steps and grass banks on either side of the square boundaries are add-ons , aiding the 'Fremantle Doctor ' wind that brings the temperatures down and gets the ball to swing . The Western Australia Cricket Association has maintained the stadium since 1893 , and despite hosting cricket throughout the early part of the 20th century , the venue hosted its first Test match in 1970 , and has been a regular fixture in Australia 's home Test calendar ever since. Langer 's Loft - a lounge inside the venue named after the former West Australia and Australia batsman - has a picture from 1895 , just two years after the land was acquired to build the ground , and one from the first Test it hosted , showing changes it has undergone over the years . The museum is closed until the World Cup games here are over , but the highlight of the iconic ground remains its wooden manual scorecard , one of only two still in operation in the country along with the one at the Manuka Oval in Canberra , which originally belonged to the Adelaide Oval. The 1954 structure is still operational , although in its present avatar it displays the names of the All-Time Western Australian XI , replete with names like Kim Hughes , Tom Moody , Dennis Lillee and Rod Marsh , and the Sundries section , Australian for Extras . The wooden manual scorecard is one of only two still in operation in the country. ( Image credit : Tanmoy Mookherjee ) © Cricbuzz Walk around and towards the Members end and another slice of history stares you in the face in the form of the Kim Hughes room , the dressing-rooms for the home and visiting teams at the WACA , with pictures adorning the walls of the inner sanctum of players . The walk is completed right under the Lillee-Marsh stand , two Australian legends who combined to effect 95 dismissals in 69 Tests - their names on the wall looking down at you like Lillee himself in his pomp . Away from the cricketing entourage that will settle itself here over the next two weeks , the WACA ground is basking under an unforgiving sun , but the legend will rear up - pun intended - when UAE and Afghanistan enter the burning cauldron against India and Australia respectively . A panoramic view of the WACA. ( Image credit : Tanmoy Mookherjee ) © Cricbuzz © Cricbuzz
