Virat Kohli is in a league of his own : Barry Richards Perth , Tue , Feb 24 2015 by CB Staff Last updated on Tuesday , 24 February , 2015 , 03 : 35 PM Richards feels Kohli is adept in pacing his innings and he will develop more as a batsman in the coming years He also said that Kohli needs to increase his range of shots to be compared with Tendulkar Richards feels Kohli is adept in pacing his innings and he will develop more as a batsman in the coming years. © Getty Former South African batsman Barry Richards feels that Virat Kohli is not only the best batsmen in the current Indian team by a long margin , but is also among the top batsmen in world cricket today. However , Richards also stated that the 25-year-old has a long way to go before he can be compared to Sachin Tendulkar . " Virat Kohli undoubtedly is the best batsman in this current Indian team by a distance , " said the 69-year-old as quoted by PTI. " He is really talented and is someone , whom you will like to pay to watch his batting. Along with AB de Villiers , he is amongst the top batsmen in world cricket today. " Richards , who represented South Africa in four Tests before the 'Rainbow nation ' went in to isolation for 21 years , also opined that Kohli is adept in pacing his innings and he will develop more as a batsman in the coming years. " He is in a league of his own. You like the way he builds an innings. The hallmark of a good batsman is to control the pace of his innings and Kohli does it with ease. He will definitely get better , " said the right-hand batsman , who had scored more than 500 runs in his four Tests . However , he was quick to add that Kohli needs to increase his range of shots , to be compared with Tendulkar. " Tendulkar 's range of strokes was extra-ordinary , which Kohli still has some way to go , " observed Richards . " When Tendulkar batted , you could sense that his peripheral vision works. He could play in that entire arc between gully and square-leg , such was his range. If needed , he could meet the ball early with a front foot stride even on fastest of pitches. In case of Kohli , I find him as someone , who plays very close to his body. He lets the ball come into him. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
