Perth leg presents India with chance to test bench strength Perth , Tue , Feb 24 2015 by Tanmoy Mookherjee Last updated on Tuesday , 24 February , 2015 , 11 : 40 PM If fit , Bhuvneshwar Kumar could play India 's next two matches in Perth. © Getty Comprehensive victories over Pakistan and South Africa have given India the unlikely top spot in a tough Group B of the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup , and - as they quietly trundle into Perth for their next two matches - it has left the team 's management with the pleasant headache of looking at players who have warmed the bench so far . It would be premature to associate the victories with the " team peaking " as the Indians go deeper into the competition , but against less-fancied opponents in United Arab Emirates whom they play at the WACA ground on Saturday , they could find a way to give a look-in to players who make up the fifteen . The Perth leg of their World Cup campaign gives India the option of giving their reserve players some match-time so they can ease themselves into the World Cup , one of the possible conversations MS Dhoni and Virat Kohli may have had at the lobby of the team hotel before they walked out to grab lunch with Mohammed Shami on Tuesday afternoon . Nearly a month ago , India were playing their final group fixture in the 2015 Cartlon Mid Tri-series here against England , where they went down by three wickets. They had n't made the final of the competition and that a disappointing tour had finally come to an end was a relief . On that day , India had first thrown away an impressive opening stand to be bowled out for 200 , and then had England on the ropes at 66 for 5 before they overcame the stutter to win by three wickets. With players like Ravindra Jadeja coming back from injury , Rohit Sharma and Bhuvneshwar Kumar out with one , and R Ashwin rested , India found positives in the form of Mohit Sharma , whose 2 for 36 that day turned out to be a selection-clinching performance . Mohit 's performance ensured India did n't need to look too far to replace Ishant Sharma in their squad , and his performances against both Pakistan and South Africa have ensured he stays as the third seamer for Dhoni. While Stuart Binny would be a prospect to ponder should India decide to rest either Umesh Yadav or Shami , the lead-up to Saturday would also reveal to which extent has Bhuvneshwar recovered from his injury . Bhuvneshwar is being eased into bowling in the nets , and India 's two practice sessions scheduled at the WACA on Wednesday and Friday will go a long way to determine his fitness. Even if he is n't deemed match-fit for the UAE game , India would be hoping they get positive news from the physio ahead of their match against West Indies on March 6 . West Indies have scored over 300 runs in each of their first three games and despite a shock defeat to Ireland in their opening fixture , they have come back to stay in contention for the quarter-finals. Chris Gayle 's record-setting 215 against Zimbabwe has cautioned teams , and Bhuvneshwar 's impressive record against the big Jamaican opener would have Dhoni wanting his premier bowler to be fit for that contest . Shikhar Dhawan 's resounding return to form in the first two games has steadied the Indian batting order at the top , and even though they would like Rohit to return to his scoring best , they looked convincing against strong bowling attacks of Pakistan and South Africa. India , or Dhoni in particular , have not really worried over a wobble towards the end of the innings in a bid to accelerate , as in both games they lost wickets in clumps to settle with 300 and 307 respectively , although they were well-set for at least 20 runs more . That India have batted first in both the matches has n't tested their middle and lower middle orders , and they would like to correct that by looking to alter their plans against UAE. Wickets up front by the opening bowlers and a sustained effort from the ones who follow have made it a complete bowling performance , but in the event of an injury to one of the regulars , the need for the reserves to be in some sort of form is paramount . © Cricbuzz
