Innings report : Anwar century boosts UAE to 278 Wed , Feb 25 2015 by CB Staff Last updated on Wednesday , 25 February , 2015 , 07 : 07 AM Shaiman Anwar became the first UAE batsman to score a century in World Cups. © Getty A magnificent 106 off 82 balls from Shaiman Anwar , only the second-ever century by a UAE batsman in ODIs , and an aggressive 42 off 35 balls from Amjad Javed helped UAE amass 278 for 9 against Ireland in the 16th match of the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup match in Brisbane on Wednesday . Both batsman came when UAE were in trouble at 131 for 6 in the 35th over. The Batting Powerplay was taken and both decided to counter-attack. Kevin O'Brien was smashed for 16 runs in the 38th over while Anwar smashed George Dockrell to deep-midwicket for the first six of the match. The Powerplay changed the game for UAE as they smashed 47 runs. Ireland continued to leak runs - John Mooney conceeding 14 runs in the 41st over , as Anwar continued to bat aggressively. The Irish bowlers were guilty of bowling either too short or too slow for which they were punished. The bowling at the death , in particular , was poor with the bowlers leaking too many wides and boundaries. Kevin O'Brien was a case in point. Bowling the 48th over , he was unsettled by Anwar 's innovative batting and sprayed the ball all over the place as he leaked 19 runs. In the fourth ball of the same over , Anwar ran the ball down to third man to become the first UAE batsman to score a century in a World Cup . At the other end , Javed punished anything that was short , wide and full and he also rotated the strike admirably. During the partnership , it seemed that UAE would better their score of 285 set against Zimbabwe in Nelson but Max Sorensen broke the 107-run stand when Javed pulled a short ball to deep square leg and Ed Joyce took a well-judged catch looking into the sun. Thanks to this stand , UAE managed to score 100 runs in the final 10 overs . The partnership , which is the best seventh-wicket stand in World Cup history , had rescued UAE from a precarious 131 for 6 in the 35th over. The Ireland bowlers had tied down the UAE top-order with some disciplined bowling on a pitch that was offering some decent bounce but not much lateral movement. UAE 's openers Amjad Ali and Andri Berenger struggled to time the ball properly and they made sluggish progress. Paul Stirling broke the 49-run partnership when Beringer ( 13 ) clipped it straight to short midwicket. In Stirling 's next over , Krishna Chandran Karate ( 0 ) got an outside edge and the ball deflected off Gary Wilson 's pads and O'Brien took a good,juggling catch with one hand . UAE continued to struggle when Amjad Ali ( 45 ) and Swapnil Patil ( 2 ) departed in quick succession. Khurram Khan , UAE 's most prolific batsman and who was the only player to average over 50 in the team , looked to rebuild the innings. He looked in good touch and rotated the strike but fell leg before to Dockrell for 36. He opted for the review and the replay indicated that the ball was hitting the top of the stumps but since the umpire had given it out , the decision stayed with the umpire . This was the first World Cup match in Brisbane after the match between Australia and Bangladesh was washed out on February 21 without a ball bowled due to cyclone Marcia . Brief scores : UAE 278/9 in 50 overs ( Shaiman Anwar 106 , Amjad Javed 42 , Paul Stirling 2/27 ) vs Ireland © Cricbuzz Tags
