India aim to cover all bases with focus on fielding Perth , Wed , Feb 25 2015 by Tanmoy Mookherjee Last updated on Wednesday , 25 February , 2015 , 10 : 54 AM India focused on strengthening their fielding ahead of their clash against UAE © Cricbuzz With the sun beating down on Perth and temperatures hovering in the late 30 degrees Celsius , India had a training session scheduled in the afternoon. A hot Wednesday ensured the team pushed their session by two hours , and chose to focus on their fielding drills followed by the customary game of football before taking on the United Arab Emirates on Saturday . One of the challenges of keeping players fresh after a long tour has been to manage the training sessions carefully. Players have often spoken about the need to keep themselves ready for games and that too much training could be draining , a view which was recently endorsed by Sachin Tendulkar as well . Before their match against UAE , India would only train twice over the course of this week. The schedule for the World Cup - India are playing a majority of their games with week-long gaps in between - allows players enough time to rest and recover . Instead of hitting the nets for the regular practice with bat and ball , India 's players - accompanied by their 13-member support staff - took to the main field at the WACA and split themselves into three different groups focusing on different drills. India 's players have been in good fielding form in their two previous games against Pakistan and South Africa , and kept up the intensity with short catches , practicing direct-hits and a third group following a unique catching format . Assistant coach Sanjay Bangar was hitting tennis balls in the direction of a pair of Indian fielders , standing one behind the other and the one behind was to take the catch with the one in front there to distract him. It may have just been one of those fun activities , but it could also be to prepare themselves for taking catches with large crowds distracting their view . India 's close-in fielders also seemed to have learnt a lesson from their match against South Africa , where Rohit Sharma and Ravindra Jadeja were run-out by direct throws from AB de Villiers. India 's fielding has definitely looked sprightly , and Shikhar Dhawan led the session with the most direct hits towards the Prindiville End. Carrying on unaware , however , was Mohit Sharma , who had earlier come in for rich praise from Faf du Plessis after his throw from the boundary had caught de Villiers short of his crease . With the focus only on fielding on Wednesday , the load on Bhuvneshwar Kumar - who has been out with injury - was negligible , and thus no inkling on whether the team would like to rest either Umesh Yadav or Mohammed Shami in order to ease him into the squad against a lesser-fancied opponent. Axar Patel , Stuart Binny and Dhawal Kulkarni , who is n't part of the squad but has been held back as an unofficial member , did their sessions together , a possible guess over their role in the coming games . Ajinkya Rahane 's all-round fielding talent , as pointed out by India captain MS Dhoni after the South Africa match , put the Mumbai player in various situations. That he was away from the core group of fielders considered to be the better ones in this team was an indication of a greater responsibility given to him to pick up the standards of some of the other players in the team . Practicing high catches along with Rahane were R Ashwin , Umesh Yadav and Mohit Sharma - majority of the players who ride the boundaries in the initial overs , while Virat Kohli , Rohit Sharma , Suresh Raina and Shikhar Dhawan accompanied Dhoni while practicing direct throws . Another day 's rest will be followed by a more intense and skill-focussed training session on the eve of Saturday 's match , and any questions over the team 's composition will have to wait until then. For now , though , India 's team settled into the heat of Perth looking cheerful and hoping to strengthen their World Cup campaign during their stay here over the next ten days . © Cricbuzz
