Report : Wilson , O'Brien fifties help Ireland overcome gritty UAE Wed , Feb 25 2015 by Siddharth Vishwanathan Last updated on Wednesday , 25 February , 2015 , 11 : 45 AM Gary Wilson scored 80 while Kevin O'Brien smashed 50 off 25 balls . Shaiman Anwar became the first UAE batsman to score a hundred in World Cups . Kevin O'Brien 's whirlwind 50 off 25 balls and Gary Wilson 's wonderful 80 helped Ireland defeat UAE by two wickets in Brisbane. © Getty The 16th match of the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup provided a thriller and refreshingly , it was a clash between the Associate nations that gave the crowd in Brisbane a wonderful match , where fortunes swung back and forth. In the end , Ireland demonstrated why they are the best Associates in the game and they continued their good run after their win against West Indies. Thanks to a brilliant 80 from Gary Wilson and a 25-ball 50 from Kevin O'Brien , Ireland overcome a spirited UAE by two wickets with four balls to spare in the Pool B encounter on Wednesday . For UAE , they once again let go off an opportunity. Call it inexperience or lack of execution , poor death bowling allowed Ireland to come back in this match similar to how Zimbabwe had come back at Nelson. Like the game six days ago , UAE had initially dominated the game , but they let it slip towards the slog overs . Chasing 279 , Ireland got off to a poor start when Manjula Guruge sent back Paul Stirling for 3. Ed Joyce and William Porterfield steadied the ship and Joyce , who had scored 84 off 67 balls against West Indies , once again looked in fine touch. In the 11th over bowled by Amjad Javed , Joyce got a life in the most incredible fashion. In the fourth ball , Javed bowled a yorker just outside off and the batsman tried to jab it down , the ball hit the stumps and the bail went off its groove and the stumps lit up. The UAE players celebrated , but Joyce shook his head and pointed to the players that the bail had not dislodged . Few overs later , UAE skipper Mohammad Tauqir dropped a simple chance off his own bowling and it seemed it was Joyce 's day. However , he was not third time lucky and Javed got his man in the 19th over when he edged a full ball to wicketkeeper Swapnil Patil , to depart for 37. The skipper struck again in the 24th over when he sent back his Irish counterpart for 37. The game was evenly poised and the task became even harder for Ireland when Niall O'Brien departed leg before to Tauqir for 17 . Gary Wilson and Andrew Balbirnie dug in and slowly started rebuilding for Ireland. The asking rate mounted but both held firm and made good progress. UAE kept chipping away and the 74-run stand was finally broken when Balbirnie mistimed a drive and it was taken by substitute Saqlain Haider who was positioned on the ring at cover. Enter Kevin O'Brien and a repeat of his heroics against England in Bangalore in 2011 was on everybody 's mind . The Batting Powerplay yielded 33 runs and Ireland had started to make a move on. Wilson quietly notched up his eighth ODI fifty , but Kevin decided to tee off. In the 41st over , the powerful allrounder smashed two boundaries off Mohammad Naveed and two consecutive fours off Krishna Chandran Karate in the next over . The momenth of the match came in the 43rd over , when Kevin mistimed a lofted shot to long-off. Nasir Aziz , who was on the field as a substitute for substitute fielder Saqlain Haider dropped the catch and parried it to the boundary. Momentum was firmly with Ireland and Kevin blasted two sixes off Javed to bring up a whirlwind fifty off 24 balls. However , he could not continue and in the very next ball , he mistimed the drive to cover. Thanks to his onslaught , the run-rate which was close to nine had dropped to seven . At the other end , Wilson was holding his nerve and he got Ireland closer. He smashed two fours off Naveed in the 48th over and it seemed Ireland were heading to victory. But , UAE kept themselves in the game when Wilson mistimed an attempted guide off Naveed to short third man , where Javed dived forward to take an important catch. Wilson had fallen for 80 off 69 balls and the knock had included nine boundaries. The pressure was back on Ireland and both teams had a chance. With seven runs needed off eight balls and with two wickets remaining , George Dockrell eased the pressure by smashing Javed for a boundary and Ireland got over the line in the second ball of the final over . It was a match which had notable individual performances , mainly from the UAE. A magnificent 106 off 82 balls from Shaiman Anwar , the second century by a UAE batsman in ODIs and the first in World Cups , and a brilliant 107-run stand with Javed helped UAE recover from 131 for 5 in the 35th over , to reach 278 for 9. Both batsman got going in the Batting Powerplay as they smashed 47 and their onslaught resulted in 100 runs in the final 10 overs of their innings. All the good work done by Ireland bowlers at the start was undone by the assault from both Anwar and Javed . The Ireland bowlers had tied down the UAE top-order with some disciplined bowling on a pitch that was offering some decent bounce but not much lateral movement. UAE 's openers Amjad Ali and Andri Berenger struggled to time the ball properly and they made sluggish progress. Paul Stirling broke the 49-run partnership when Beringer ( 13 ) clipped it straight to short midwicket. In Stirling 's next over , Krishna Karate ( 0 ) got an outside edge and the ball deflected off Gary Wilson 's pads and O'Brien took a good,juggling catch with one hand . UAE continued to struggle when Amjad Ali ( 45 ) and Patil ( 2 ) departed in quick succession. Khurram Khan , UAE 's most prolific batsman and who was the only player to average over 50 in the team , looked to rebuild the innings. He looked in good touch and rotated the strike but fell leg before to Dockrell for 36. He opted for the review and the replay indicated that the ball was hitting the top of the stumps but since the umpire had given it out , the decision stayed with the umpire . This was the first World Cup match in Brisbane after the match between Australia and Bangladesh was washed out on February 21 without a ball bowled due to cyclone Marcia . Brief scores : UAE 278/9 in 50 overs ( Shaiman Anwar 106 , Amjad Javed 42 , Paul Stirling 2/27 ) lost to Ireland 279/8 in 49.2 overs ( Gary Wilson 80 , Kevin O'Brien 50 , Amjad Javed 3/60 ) by two wickets © Cricbuzz Tags
