Porterfield hails Wilson , O'Brien after tight win Wed , Feb 25 2015 Last updated on Wednesday , 25 February , 2015 , 01 : 35 PM Wilson 's 80 went a long way towards securing Ireland a close win. © AFP Ireland captain William Porterfield has acknowledged the efforts of Gary Wilson and Kevin O'Brien whose fifties in the lower middle order helped the team scrape through against United Arab Emirates in the ICC World Cup at Brisbane on Wednesday . Needing 279 to win , Ireland , who had upset West Indies in their opening match , were gasping for breath at 97 for 4 before successive partnerships of 74 ( between Andy Balbirnie and Wilson ) and 72 ( between Wilson and O'Brien ) took the team out of the woods. Porterfield , who contributed 37 in the chase , was of the opinion that the team owed both batsmen a lot for their two-wicket win off the second ball of the last over . " Well , it was very close than what we would have wanted , but you will take the win any day of the week. I could n't get going myself , but wickets in hand are always a big thing , especially if you have lads like [ Gary ] Wilson and Kev [ Kevin O'Brien ] , they are very good strikers of the ball and it makes it a bit easier , " an appreciative Porterfield said at the post-match presentation . " Keeping wickets in hand is a big thing in this format. The confidence is high within the squad. Obviously , we had a big break before this game and it 's nice to get a win here again. Fixtures start coming a bit thicker and faster. So , we just have to keep putting in the performances. We took early wickets up front and managed to restrict them , but one key factor was the way we played from probably 30 overs out with the bat. " They may not have been able to beat a team many consider the best Associate nation , but UAE managed to catch the eye , especially Shaiman Anwar who became the first batsman for his team to score a ton in World Cup history. The seventh-wicket 137-run stand between him and Amjad Javed laid the foundations for a competitive total. Mohammad Tauqir , the leader of the side , was happy with the way his team fought . " It was a decent batting effort by Shaiman [ Anwar ] , he played a superb knock. From 131 for 6 to 280 [ 278 ] , it was a very , very good innings from Shaiman. The credit goes to him , it was a brilliant innings. Congratulations to both [ Anwar and Amjad Javed ] of them , they played superbly , " Tauqir said . " We know they are very good batsmen , especially Shaiman , coming lower down the order. Initially up to 35 overs [ when asked if they initially bowled well ] , but later on in the second half of the innings , there was dew and the ball became slightly wet , so it was not helping the seamers. It was a very good batting wicket. They batted well and it went down to the wire. " Meanwhile , wicketkeeper-batsman Wilson , who took 69 balls to score 80 , was happy to get back among the runs just at the right time. " I was delighted to get a few , I had n't had too many coming into the game. So , it 's nice to come back and make a good contribution. I was confident to be honest and told myself that it was my day. Luckily , it worked out. I have batted a lot with Kev [ who made 50 off 25 balls ] over the years , both at county and international level. We adapted quite well together. So , it was great to have him come in like that . " Definitely [ when asked if Ireland can qualify for the quarterfinals ] , we may need 4 wins , but all we got to do is take each game as it comes. " © Cricbuzz Tags
