Amla : South Africa past India defeat Wed , Feb 25 2015 Last updated on Wednesday , 25 February , 2015 , 03 : 55 PM Hashim Amla had poor games against Zimbabwe and India. © Getty Hashim Amla insists South Africa are ready to move on from their humiliating 130-run defeat against India in the ICC World Cup last Sunday . The Proteas , one of the pre-tournament favourites , beat Zimbabwe in their opener convincingly and went in to the India game with the odds in their favour , but chasing 308 to win , their batting crumbled and even failed to make a match of it . Ahead of the team 's next game against West Indies in Sydney on Friday , Amla said the team was now looking ahead , not dwelling on the loss at the hands of the defending champions. " Everybody in the team has played enough to know that you do win and lose games. There can only be one winner and one loser. So , let 's not get too dramatic about it , " Amla said on Wednesday . " We did n't play good cricket , but we take the knock on the chin. We know we have a few more games in the round-robin phase , and guys have been playing well. So we do n't want to dwell too much on it. But going into the next game we certainly know we 've got to perform better. " With India now favourites to top Pool B , South Africa may run into a tougher opponent in the quarter-finals. But for Amla , it was n't an important consideration . " You want to finish as high as possible but if you qualify for the quarter-final , so be it. If you want to win a World Cup you 're going to need to play the best teams to win it. There 's no trying to avoid anybody , " the opener said . Going back on the India encounter , Amla said : " We did n't manage to string enough big partnerships closely together and we lost wickets at key times. Things like that happen. You do n't want it to happen , and fortunately over the last few years it has n't happened to us too often , getting bowled out for 150 or 160. We just want to brush it off , take the knock on our chin , and get our heads up for the next game. " Amla , who averages 55.58 in 109 matches , came into the tournament on the back of scores of 66 , 153 * , 61 * and 133 but failed to keep up his form and contributed 11 and 22 against Zimbabwe and India respectively. Not just him , fellow opener Quinton de Kock 's form has also been a matter of concern . " I 'd love to score runs every game but I do n't think it 's possible. It 's been a slow start and hopefully it gets better. I 'm feeling good. Everybody goes through a few games in which they do n't score runs , " Amla shared his perspective on the matter . On his partner , he added : " Quinny [ Quinton de Kock ] is striking the ball really well. On any given day , he can kick into first , second , third , fourth , fifth and sixth gear. Although he has n't got many runs I do n't think anybody in the team is too concerned with him not getting enough batting time because he does hit a lot of balls in the nets and he does put a lot of care into his batting. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
