Sri Lanka clicked in all departments as they hammered Bangladesh by 92 runs to go to the second spot in Pool A. © Getty Match end : Complete performance by Sri Lanka Bangladesh got off to a poor start when they lost Tamim Iqbal in the second ball of their innings. Soumya Sarkar struck some good blows but he was dismissed when he was looking good for 25 off 15 balls. Bangladesh continued to lose wickets and it was left to Shakib Al Hasan and Mushfiqur Rahim to put up a fight. Shakib looked in good touch during his stay while Rahim also looked solid. The 64-run stand gave Bangladesh a brief glimmer of hope but once Shakib fell for 46 , the rest of the Bangladesh batting folded up . Sabbir Rahman delayed the inevitable by scoring his maiden ODI fifty but Malinga came back and wrapped things up. Bangladesh were bowled out for 240 and Sri Lanka won the match by 92 runs. With this victory , Sri Lanka now have four points from three games while Bangladesh have three points from three games. Sri Lanka are in second position , just behind New Zealand while Bangladesh are in fourth position. Tillakaratne Dilshan was the Man of the Match for his unbeaten 161 and for picking up two wickets . Wickets : Malinga wraps it up Sabbir Rahman delayed the inevitable by scoring his maiden ODI fifty. However , Malinga came back and sent back Rahman with a bouncer for 53. In the next ball , he completely flummoxed Taskin Ahmed with a slow yorker and was trapped plumb in front . Sabbir Rahman c Kumar Sangakkara b Lasith Malinga 53 ( 62 ) Taskin Ahmed LBW Lasith Malinga 0 ( 1 ) Wicket : Dilshan can do no wrong Tillakaratne Dilshan , who smashed an unbeaten 161 , snapped up Mashrafe Mortaza as he lured him out of the crease with a flighted delivery. Mortaza looked to slog it to midwicket but missed it and Sangakkara effected an easy stumping . Mashrafe Mortaza st Kumar Sangakkara b Tillakaratne Dilshan 7 ( 7 ) Wicket : Lakmal sends back Mushfiqur , Bangladesh 's resistance ends Suranga Lakmal picked up his second wicket in the match as he deceived Rahim with a good delivery. The batsman made room and advanced down the track but the bowler follows him by bowling a full off-cutter. Rahim tries to run it down to third man but the ball takes the outside edge and crashes into the middle stump . Mushfiqur Rahim b Suranga Lakmal 36 ( 39 ) Update : Bangladesh put in a poor performance Bangladesh were unable to get going after the fall of Shakib 's wicket and Sri Lanka tightened their grip. The poor performance by Bangladesh led to one tweet which said the crowd at the venue was still good despite Bangladesh 's poor show . 30,012 in at MCG to watch this horrible performance by Bangladesh . — Subash Jayaraman ( @ thecricketcouch ) February 26 , 2015 Wicket : Shakib falls , Bangladesh on the brink Just when the partnership looked threatening , Dilshan struck as Shakib advanced down the track and chipped the lofted drive straight to Malinga at long-on. Bangladesh 164/6 after 32 overs . Shakib Al Hasan c Lasith Malinga b Tillakaratne Dilshan 46 ( 59 ) Update : Shakib-Mushfiqur fight for Bangladesh Shakib Al Hasan and Mushfiqur Rahim showed tremendous application and counter-attacked in style. Shakib , in particular , was at his attacking best. He smashed a six and two fours off Herath and smashed two consecutive fours off Anglo Mathews as the fifty-run partnership was notched up in the 31st over. Fortune aided Mushfiqur as Malinga dropped him at long-on off Dilshan for 16 . Update : Sri Lankan legends meet at the MCG Meanwhile , Sri Lankan legend Sanath Jayasuriya was at Melbourne cheering the Sri Lankan team and he had some wonderful company. He tweeted his activity at the MCG today . — Sanath Jayasuriya ( @ sanath07 ) February 26 , 2015 Bangladesh were unable to put up a fight in the World Cup match against Sri Lanka in Melbourne. © Getty Wicket : Bangladesh sink further Things are getting worse for Bangladesh. Anamul Haque , who was looking solid , is involved in a mix-up and is run-out for 29. Mahmudullah tucked the ball to midwicket and Anamul wanted the single. However , Mahmudullah was n't even looking and he is late in sending back Anamul. Mathews fires at the bowler 's end and he scores a direct hit to catch Anamul short . Anamul Haque run out ( Angelo Mathews ) 29 ( 43 ) Bangladesh lost their top order cheaply in the chase of 333. © Reuters Wicket : Mominul fails to seize the opportunity However , in the very next ball , Mominul played away from his body as he edged a short ball straight to Mahela at first slip , who took the catch and roared out expletives. The bonus for Sri Lanka was that , since it was a technical issue which resulted in the DRS failure , match referee Jeff Crowe decided to reinstate the review which was lost. So , Sri Lanka have one review remaining . Mominul Haque c Mahela Jaywardene b Suranga Lakmal 1 ( 3 ) Update : Sri Lanka face the DRS blues Sri Lanka face the DRS blues again. Suranga Lakmal angles a shortish delivery outside off and Mominul Haque pokes at it. Sangakkara collects it and there is a polite appeal. Sri Lanka take the review and replays indicated that the ball had hit the bottom edge. However , Snicko , one of the components of the DRS was not working and the original decision stayed with the umpire. Mahela Jayawardene was left fuming. This is the second time that Sri Lanka are at the receiving end of the DRS blues. Against New Zealand during the sixth ODI in Dunedin in January , Sri Lanka had reviewed a leg before off Martin Guptill but in that case , hawk-eye was not working. One of the Sri Lankans remarked , " This is Crap " , when the incident occurred . Wicket : Sarkar falls after a confident start Just when Sarkar was looking positive , Sri Lankan skipper Angelo Mathews ends his stay. Mathews floats a full , slower delivery outside off and he lures Sarkar into the drive. He falls for the trap and he gets an outside edge that is snapped up by Sangakkara . Soumya Sarkar c Sangakkara b Mathews 25 ( 15 ) Update : Soumya Sarkar gets going Following the early departure of Tamim , Soumya Sarkar got going by smashing three consecutive boundaries off Suranga Lakmal. Bangladesh are showing that they will not be overwhelmed by the big score and they are going to play positively. Bangladesh are 33/1 after five overs . Update : Dropped catches fever grips Sri Lanka too Bangladesh dropped a total of five catches and missed a couple of run-outs during the Sri Lankan innings. Dilshan decided that he too must get into the action as he dropped Anamul Haque on 0 off Suranga Lakmal. Seems like 'dropped catch ' fever is spreading at the MCG . Wicket : Malinga cleans up Tamim Bangladesh are confronted with a massive chase of 333 but they get off to a horror start. Lasith Malinga got a delivery to come back in off the seam and Tamim Iqbal played inside the line. The ball sneaked past the edge and hit off stump . Tamim Iqbal b Lasith Malinga 0 ( 2 ) Kumar Sangakkara and Tillakaratne Dilshan shared a 210-run stand for the second wicket with Sangakkara and Dilshan scoring centuries. © Getty Innings update : Dilshan , Sangakkara flay Bangladesh Dilshan and Sangakkara smashed the Bangladesh bowling to all parts of the ground as they bludgeoned 332/1 after the end of 50 overs. It was a story of Bangladesh 's poor fielding and some brilliant batting from the Sri Lankan top order. Lahiru Thirmanne and Tillakaratne Dilshan started off cautiously , with Thirimanne surviving a couple of dropped chances . Bangladesh 's fielding slipped away as the match progressed. Thirimanne departed for 52 but Sangakkara joined Dilshan and they carted the bowling to all parts of the ground. Sangakkara was positive from the word go and he scored his 22nd ODI century in his 400th ODI while Dilshan also notched up his 21st century. Bangladesh conceded 115 runs in the final 10 overs and in the process , the duo shattered several records . Dilshan smashed a total of 22 boundaries in his knock. It is the most by a batsman in an innings in the World Cup , going past the mark of 21 boundaries hit by Stephen Fleming when he hit 134 * against South Africa in Johannesburg in 2003 . Dilshan ( 161 * ) notched up his highest score in ODIs. It was his third 150-plus score in ODIs. His previous two scores were 160 and both came against India . Sangakkara became the first player to score a century in his 400th ODI. He reached the hundred off 73 balls , his fastest century ever. It was his first at the MCG . The unbeaten 210-run stand for the second wicket is the best ever for Sri Lanka in World Cups. The previous best for Sri Lanka was 170 between Sanath Jayasuriya and Hashan Tillakaratne against New Zealand in Bloemfontein in 2003 . Sri Lanka 's innings featured a total of 37 fours and just one six in the entire innings. The only time there was such a big gap between fours and sixes for Sri Lanka was in 1975 against Australia at the Oval in which they hit 37 fours and no sixes . Kumar Sangakkara and Tillakaratne Dilshan flayed the Bangladesh bowling to all parts of the ground. © AFP Milestone : Dilshan and Sangakkara give Sri Lankans plenty to smile Kumar Sangakkara scored a century in his 400th ODI off just 73 balls. It is the fastest century that he has ever scored and it is his first century at the MCG. It is his 22nd overall. At the other end , Dilshan scored his third 150-plus score in ODIs . Update : Sri Lanka go past 300 Sri Lanka continued the onslaught on Bangladesh as they notched up their 300 in the 48th over. Sangakkara is on the cusp of a century while Dilshan is closing in on his 150 . Update : Sri Lanka cut loose Bangladesh have lost the plot as they leak plenty of runs in the death overs. Dilshan takes a liking to Taskin Ahmed as he smashes him for four boundaries in the over. The last five overs have already leaked 57 runs . Update : One more fielding lapse Yup ! You guessed it. Another fielding chance is fluffed by the Bangladesh fielders. Sangakkara works it to the leg side and he is half-way down the track. Dilshan sends him back late and the fielder collects the ball. Sangakkara turns back and Anamul Haque , the fielder waits , waits , waits and waits. He decides to fire the throw but can not hit the stumps and they end up getting the run. Bangladesh fans will be wanting to turn the TV off . Update : Another dropped catch and more misery Alright , this is official. Bangladesh can not catch to save their lives. Kumar Sangakkara cuts the first ball off Rubel Hossain 's second spill but Mominul Haque spilled a chance. In order to redeem himself , he tries to run-out Dilshan but the bowler is not backing up. On top of that , the fielder who is backing up is not paying attention to the game and ends up getting to the ball late. 15 runs came in poor Rubel 's eighth over. Anything that can go wrong is going wrong. There was a touch of irony too It 's cruel that Bangladesh have been so badly let down in the field today. They have been one of the better fielding sides in recent times . — Michael Wagener ( @ Mykuhl ) February 26 , 2015 Bangladesh dropped a total of five catches as they continued to be pounded by Sri Lanka. © Reuters Milestone : Dilshan century powers SL Tillakaratne Dilshan joined in the fun by scoring his 21st ODI century and his fourth against Bangladesh. The moment was a bit anti-climatic though as he charged down the track to a flighted delivery but the ball took the inside edge and went past the stumps. Bangladesh are looking clueless . Milestone : Sangakkara makes it count in his 400th ODI It has already been a day of milestones for Sangakkara. At the start of the day , he was playing his 400th ODI and he made the occasion even special by notching up his 94th ODI fifty off 45 balls. It is his seventh against Bangladesh and the Lions are punishing the Tigers at the G. He is now two behind Sachin Tendulkar 's mark of 96 fifties , which is the most in ODIs . Update : Sri Lanka march on in the Batting Powerplay Sangakkara and Dilshan continued to flay the bowling to all parts of the MCG as they smashed 34 runs in the Batting Powerplay. Things are getting difficult for Bangladesh as they stare at a huge total in front of them . Update : Bangladesh 's fielding woes continue It looks like Bangladesh 's fielders have applied plenty of butter in their hands today. So many chances are being dropped. Taskin Ahmed the culprit this time as he drops Sangakkara on 23 off his own bowling. Sri Lanka will be really looking to capitalize now . Update : Batting Powerplay taken With Dilshan looking in great touch and Kumar Sangakkara looking in fine touch , Sri Lanka smartly decided to take the Batting Powerplay. After 32 overs , Sri Lanka are in a great position at 162/1 . Rubel Hossain was the only bowler who picked up a wicket in the match against Sri Lanka. © Getty Wicket : Thirimanne 's charmed life ends Thirimanne already had survived three times and one felt that it was going to be his day. However , his luck ran out and he departed for 52. Rubel Hossain bowls a short delivery outside off and Thirimanne arches back to ramp it to third man. The ball hits the middle and it flies to third man where Taskin Ahmed leans forward to take the catch . Lahiru Thirimanne c Taskin Ahmed b Rubel Hossain 52 ( 78 ) Milestone : Thirimanne also gets to fifty After surviving three chances , Thirimanne finally notched up his fifty off 74 balls. It is his 12th in ODIs and his first against Bangladesh. Sri Lanka are looking ominous . Update : Thirimanne continues to survive He was dropped on 0 by Anamul Haque at slip off Mashraffe Mortaza in the first match. He was again missed by slip and now he survives a missed stumping on 44. Bangladeshi fans will be feeling pretty frustrated by this performance . Milestone : Dilshan fifty propels Sri Lanka Tillakaratne Dilshan fell for a golden duck in the match against Afghanistan in Dunedin but he made amends in this match. He notched up his 43rd ODI fifty and his third against Bangladesh. Sri Lanka were looking ominous at 103/0 after 21 overs . Update : Sri Lanka openers make solid start Drinks at the MCG and things are not looking good for Bangladesh. Thirimanne is hanging in there while Dilshan is looking comfortable out in the middle. At drinks , Sri Lanka are 76/0 after 16 overs . Team update : 50 up for Sri Lanka After a steady start , Sri Lanka brought up their 50 in the 10th over. Bangladesh have been sloppy so far , with Lahiru Thirimanne getting a reprieve twice off Mortaza. The running between the wickets has also been sloppy. Thirimanne is like a cat today , surviving plenty of times but Bangladesh are not helping themselves with their poor fielding . Update : Poor start by Taskin Ahmed Taskin Ahmed replaced Rubel Hossain and he got off to a poor start as Tillakaratne Dilshan smashed him for two boundaries. 12 runs were conceded in the first over by Taskin and Sri Lanka are making a move on . Tillakaratne Dilshan and Lahiru Thirimanne started off cautiously against Bangladesh in Melbourne. © Reuters Update : Steady bowling from Mashrafe , poor from Rubel Mashrafe Moratza has settled into a good rhythm and is bowling a wonderful line and length. His spell so far reads : 4-0-8-0. On the other hand , Rubel Hossain has struggled for control and has already conceded five wides. His spell reads 3-0-20-0. Rubel is replaced by Taskin Ahmed. Sri Lanka are 28/0 after seven overs . Fan following : MCG becomes a sea of green and blue Melbourne has a large contingent of Bangladesh and Sri Lanka expatriate fans. Both of them came out in full support for this match , which is vital for both teams . Catch dropped : Anamul Haque drops a sitter Drama in the first over. Mashrafe Mortaza , bowling a lovely line outside the off stump , induces the edge from Lahiru Thirimanne and it flies to widish first slip. Anamul Haque , juggles not once , not twice but four times but he puts the chance down. That would have been a great start for Bangladesh but they fluff it. Poor batting though from Thirimanne . Stat : Sangakkara joins the 400 club Kumar Sangakkara was the latest entrant into the 400 club in ODIs. He was featuring in his 400th ODI today at the MCG and he is the fourth player after Sachin Tendulkar ( 463 ) , Sanath Jayasuriya ( 445 ) and Mahela Jayawardene ( 444 ) to have reached this mark . Toss : Sri Lanka won the toss and opt to bat Sri Lanka skipper Angelo Mathews opted to bat first saying that the pitch is really good and they want to make first use of it. The team made one change , with Dinesh Chandimal replacing Jeevan Mendis , who has been ruled out of the tournament with a hamstring injury. Bangladesh made no changes to their team . Bangladesh ( Playing XI ) : Anamul Haque , Tamim Iqbal , Soumya Sarkar , Mahmudullah , Shakib Al Hasan , Mominul Haque , Mushfiqur Rahim ( w ) , Sabbir Rahman , Mashrafe Mortaza ( c ) , Rubel Hossain , Taskin Ahmed Sri Lanka ( Playing XI ) : Lahiru Thirimanne , Tillakaratne Dilshan , Kumar Sangakkara ( w ) , Dimuth Karunaratne , Mahela Jayawardene , Angelo Mathews ( c ) , Dinesh Chandimal , Thisara Perera , Rangana Herath , Lasith Malinga , Suranga Lakmal Build-up : Sri Lanka , Bangladesh look to build momentum Sri Lanka and Bangladesh clash in a crucial Pool A fixture with both teams looking to take a decisive step towards the tournament knock-outs. Thus far , Sri Lanka 's World Cup has n't gone according to plan. They were beaten by co-hosts New Zealand in the tournament opener before being given an almighty scare by the resilient Afghans. Injuries have n't helped either. They 've been forced to replace an injured Jeevan Mendis with Upul Tharanga. Captain Angelo Mathews has called for a more cohesive performance from the team . Bangladesh meanwhile , by virtue of their washed-out game against Australia , Bangladesh find themselves above Sri Lanka in the table. They 'll look to capitalize on Sri Lanka 's slow start to the tournament by springing a surprise victory over their much fancied opponent . © Cricbuzz Tags
