Afghanistan pip Scotland in Associates thriller Dunedin , Thu , Feb 26 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Thursday , 26 February , 2015 , 09 : 48 AM This was Afghanistan 's first win in World Cups Samiullah Shenwari starred with a superb 96 for Afghanistan Shapoor Zadran scored the winning runs and sparked off a frenzied celebration © Getty What a game. Afghanistan 's highest ninth-wicket partnership in ODIs trumped Scotland 's highest ninth-wicket partnership in ODIs in this all-Associates clash at Dunedin , with Mohammad Nabi 's team winning their first World Cup match , in their third appearance at the tournament , in breathtaking manner . Defending 211 , Scotland had their tails up when they restricted Afghanistan to 97 for 7 , chasing 211 , but Samiullah Shenwari summoned powers of immense concentration to produce a career-best , and potentially career-defining , innings to leave the opposition stunned. Having walked out at the fall of the second wicket after eight overs , Shenwari - whose previous best was 82 off 118 balls - held up one end admirably while partners came and went , and once he found support from Dawlat Zadran ( 9 ) and Hamid Hassan ( 15 * ) , with whom he scripted partnerships of 35 and 60 , he opened up with some stunning shots. His third , fourth and fifth sixes came off the offspinner Majid Haq in the 47th over of an engrossing match , but it was in that same over that Shenwari fell four runs short of a century . That brought to the crease the No 11 Shapoor Zadran to join Hassan , and the pair played out 16 balls in nerve-wracking manner to seal a humdinger. Crucial moments for Scotland to reflect on , glaringly a wide off the sixth ball of the penultimate over , after which Zadran tickled the extra delivery to fine leg for four to leave the equation at five runs from one over . The tension was ratcheted up when Matt Machan missed the stumps with an underarm throw from midwicket off the second ball of Ian Wardlaw 's final over. But the mood changed dramatically off the next ball , a full toss on the pads which Zadran clipped for four to spark manic celebrations. He ran after the ball to fine leg , sunk to his knees , with Hassan harrying after him. The rest of Afghanistan team joined in , and around the boundary ran the vibrant band of Afghan supporters. Afghani music blared over the PA , turning Scottish-heritage Dunedin into a raucous celebration of Afghanistan 's spirit . Indeed , this was an immense display of concentration from Shenwari , who faced 147 balls - the most by an Afghanistan player in ODIs - to give his team hope. Their chase had given way with a dramatic collapse of 5 for 12 , starting with the exit of Javed Ahmadi for a run-a-ball 51 , with Richie Berrington claiming three of them in 18 balls. As the hit-me balls dried up , Ahmadi became antsy and ended up skying Berrington for a run-a-ball 51. That success prompted a change in attack , with Preston Mommsen calling back Josh Davey. The bowler needed six balls to deliver , getting Nabi lbw for 1. You could sense something was brewing . Off the next delivery bowled by Berrington , Haq spilled Shenwari , on 20 , at first slip. At the time , the gaffe did not seem that massive because five balls later , Berrington had Afsar Zazai lbw for 0. In his next over , Haq held a sharp catch from Najibullah Zadran 's edge. At 96 for 6 in 23 overs , Afghanistan were sinking. Then came Shenwari , dragging his team form the precipice to an epic win . Scotland had similarly been lifted by a record ninth-wicket stand of 62 between the veteran Haq and rookie Alisdair Evans , moving from 144 for 8 to their first 200-plus score in World Cups. Put into bat on a lively deck , Scotland were in early trouble with Dawlat and Hassan striking in in windy conditions with temperatures dipping to 12 degrees. Dawlat was used by Nabi in two short spells up front , taking a wicket in each. In his first ( 3-1-7-1 ) he had Calum MacLeod - following scores of 0 and 4 - cutting his sixth ball straight to point for another duck and that spell set the tone for Afghanistan 's control . Dawlat came back for a second burst ( 4-0-18-1 ) and got the big scalp of Kyle Coetzer , who looked good until he drove at a fuller ball without bending or moving his front foot and was bowled for 25 from 41 balls. In between Dawlats strikes , Hamish Gardiner - in for Freddie Coleman at No 3 - missed a straight one from Hassan on 5 . Machan prospered when the seamers pitched it up outside off stump and with Mommsen revived Scotland from 40 for 3 with a stand of 53. Machan missed a slog at Nabi and was bowled for 35 , and Gulbadan Naib was rewarded for his accuracy when Mommsen , on 23 , edged to Zazai. Recalled into the attack to bowl the 31st over , the hulking Shapoor had Cross caught behind for 15 with a ripping delivery , banged in short to take the edge , and then a diving catch at mid-off from Hassan , followed by an attempt at a cartwheel , left Scotland at 134 for 7 . Daulat returned to add Berrington for 25 , backed by chants of his name from a vociferous band of shalwar-clad Afghan fans at one corner of the small ground. At 144 for 8 in the 37th over , Scotland were in danger of being run over but Haq , the only member of the squad to play a World Cup before this , and Evans smartly nudged singles in their alliance. A total of 210 almost proved enough,but in the end Scotland were the ones that crumbled under pressure . Brief scores : Afghanistan 211 for 9 in 49.3 overs ( Samiullah Shenwari 96 , Javed Ahmadi 51, , Richie Berrington 4/40 ) beat Scotland 210 in 50 overs ( Matt Machan 31 , Majid Haq 31 , Dawlat Zadran 3/29 , Shapoor Zadran 4/38 ) by one wicket © Cricbuzz Tags
