Roadshow : SCG immortalises cricket fan with sculpture in stands Sydney , Thu , Feb 26 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Thursday , 26 February , 2015 , 09 : 30 AM © Cricbuzz Visitors to Sydney Cricket Ground may miss seeing any of the remarkable bronze sculptures of Australian legends Fred 'The Demon ' Spofforth , Stan McCabe , Richie Benaud and Steve Waugh , depending on where they enter the historic venue from. There is no way , however , they can skip the sculpture of the erstwhile Hill 's most celebrated barracker , Yabba . For , a life-size statue of Stephen 'Yabba ' Gascoigne sits through rain and shine as the representative of die-hard cricket fans , past , present and future , in the Victor Trumper Stand. In a most thoughtful gesture , the venue owners , Sydney Cricket & Sports Ground Trust , commissioned artist Cathy Weiszmann , to perpetuate his memory . Taking up place that could have accommodated two seats in the second row of bucket chairs in the stand that replaced the famous SCG Hill in 2008 , the sculpture is complete with Yabba 's right palm raised to the side of his mouth so that his bellowed shout can be heard in the middle , a hat and a couple of beer bottles . It is arguably the only such installation inside any cricket ground. And , inarguably , it is the only such sculpture that celebrates the ubiquitous fan of the sport. The Trust says the sculpture in the stands is a tribute to every spectator who has ever come to the ground. It could not have done any better than enshrining Yabba 's legend . Sri Lanka 's Percy Abeyasekara has held his own as the team 's primary cheerleader for half a century while Pakistan cricket has two avatars of Chacha Cricket Chaudhry Abdul Jalil , who caught everyone 's eye in the days when the sport had made the desert outpost of Sharjah a fixture on the itinerary and more recently Mohammed Bashir Bazai . There have been a few Indian fans in the recent years who have secured space and time in the media. The conch-blowing Sudhir Chaudhry , him of the body paint fame , and Dharamvir Singh Pal , the polio-affected Madhya Pradesh youth who has been called the Indian team 's 12th man , are two prime examples but it seems unlikely any of them will be celebrated as Yabba . Yabba was the only one who stepped forward from the ranks of the chorus and established himself as an identity. 'His colloquial wit had a comedian 's sense of timing. He had an old soldier 's vocabulary , dating back to the South African War , for which he enlisted while on a visit there in his early 20s, ' the legendary Ray Robinson wrote in From the Boundary . Yabba 's sculpture is a lovely reminder to everyone who matters that the fans , with all their extreme reactions , are paramount even in days when gate money is only a small percentage of the total revenues. That fans are integral to any sport is a given and cricket has been fortunate that it has retained and enhanced its support base through many ups and downs . Bodyline , Kerry Packer 's World Cricket Series and a clutch of Match-Fixing scandals are some key moments that tested the game. Some will be tempted to add the onset of Twenty20 format to that list. Be that as it may , it is remarkable that cricket has grown from strength to strength , leading to a different form of spectating than would have prevailed in Yabba 's time . If he were around , he would have to raise his voice really high to be heard , given the enormous decibel levels that modern spectators produce as a chorus. These are times when dhols and drums , vuvuzelas and brass bands , and , above all , noisy throats dominate , leaving little room for anyone with wit to express oneself as Yabba is said to have done before World War II . For all that , it is remarkable that someone actually thought of paying the cricket fan a unique tribute . © Cricbuzz
