Dilshan , Sangakkara fashion emphatic win Thu , Feb 26 2015 by Aditya Bhattacharya Last updated on Thursday , 26 February , 2015 , 11 : 42 AM Sangakkara and Dilshan put on an unbeaten 210 run-stand for the second wicket Dilshan registered his highest ODI score Sngakkara scored his 22nd century in his 400th ODI Kumar Sangakkara celebrated his 400th ODI by scoring a 22nd century © Getty On one hand , there are Associate teams like UAE and Afghanistan , who have managed to seize key moments and win a lot of hearts in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015. And then there is Bangladesh , a side that has repeatedly put in abject performances one after the other. First , they lost both their warm-up games to Pakistan and Ireland ; and even though the win against Afghanistan saved them some face , they were back to square one against Sri Lanka at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on Thursday . Bangladesh lost , hammered by 92 runs. They had their chances , but sluggish fielding - five dropped catches , inability to get direct-hits and abysmal batting once again let them down. Tillakaratne Dilshan overcame the disappointment of a golden duck against Afghanistan last week and scored a whirlwind century. Supporting him was Kumar Sangakkara , who brought up his 22nd ODI ton to propel Sri Lanka to a daunting total of 332 for 1 , in reply to which all Bangladesh managed was 240 . Bangladesh conceded their 37th 300-plus total in ODIs , and chasing it required a good start to begin with. But , Lasith Malinga paid put to those hopes by cleaning up Tamim Iqbal off the second ball of the innings. The second wicket pair of Soumya Sarkar and Anamul Haque got together and played a few entertaining shots - 14 coming off the fourth over by Suranga Lakmal. Although Anamul was lucky to have a catch dropped by Dilshan at mid-off , it required a special effort from Bangladesh in order to make a match of it . Just when Sarkar began to look positive , Sri Lanka skipper Angelo Mathews ended his stay. Mathews floated a full , slower delivery outside off and lured the batsman into the drive , edging it to Sangakkara behind the stumps. Anamul needed to make it count with the bat after dropping Lahiru Thirimanne first over of the match , but his needless run-out for 29 denied him that opportunity. As Sri Lanka continued to chip away with wickets - Anamul , Mominul Haque and Mahmudullah falling for 16 runs , it was once again up to Bangladesh 's two most prolific batsmen , Shakib Al Hasan and Mushfiqur Rahim to do the repair work , which to some extent , they did . They gathered a flurry of boundaries between over 37 to 41 - 37 runs coming off it. The partnership lasted 64 off 67 balls and gave Bangladesh something to cheer about. But it was always going to be a stiff ask , and once Dilshan snapped the promising sixth-wicket stand with the wicket of Shakib for 46 , it was just a matter of time. The asking-rate skyrocketed to 12 and Mushfiqur departed eight overs later to more or less put the game in Sri Lanka 's balance . The lower order showed some resilience - Sabbir Rahman 's half-century was laced with seven boundaries - but it was n't enough to prevent them from going down. Malinga bowled Taskin Ahmed to wrap things up and finish with 3 for 35 . Sri Lanka had just the perfect game. Earlier after winning the toss , Dilshan got his side off the blocks in the eighth over , taking Taskin for 12 runs. He often played the pull shot to perfection , allowing Thirimanne , looking fidgety at the other end , to grow in confidence. The pair rotated the strike well apart from the usual boundary every now and then. In the process , both batsmen got to their respective half-centuries - Dilshan off 59 deliveries and Thirimanne , 74 . Rubel Hossain got rid of Thirimanne for 52 , bringing an end to his scratchy innings. That however , was the only success Bangladesh had. Out walked Sangakkara , playing his 400th ODI , and along with Dilshan , dished out an all-out assault , providing Bangladesh players and their supporters present at the venue with yet another bowling performance to forget . Dilshan reached his 21st ODI century off 115 balls whereas Sangakkara took 73 balls , his quickest. Four Bangladesh bowlers went at over six and a half , Taskin being the most expensive of the lot , conceding 13 boundaries. During this marathon innings , a few records were made and broken including that of the highest number of boundaries in a World Cup match - Dilshan with 22 , and the best second-wicket partnership for Sri Lanka in World Cup - Sangakkara and Dilshan 's 210-run stand. The Batting Powerplay yielded 34 runs , and once that was done , both batsmen shifted gears and took 115 off the final ten overs . Sangakkara could have been dismissed had Taskin latched on to a return catch when on 23. He was put down again on 60 , when Mominul Haque dropped a sitter at point and then threw unnecessarily towards the bowler 's end. Dilshan then got going , playing his unorthodox sweeps off medium-pace bowler as he brought up his third 150-plus score . Brief Scores : Sri Lanka 322 for 1 ( Tillakaratne Dilshan 161 not out , Kumar Sangakkara 105 not out ; Rubel Hossain 1/62 ) beat Bangladesh ( Sabbir Rahman 53 , Shakib Al Hasan 46 ; Lasith Malinga 3 for 35 ) by 92 runs . © Cricbuzz Tags
