Mathews delighted after big win Thu , Feb 26 2015 Last updated on Thursday , 26 February , 2015 , 12 : 18 PM Mathews was effusive in his praise of Sangakkara and Dilshan. © Getty Sri Lanka at last hit their top game in the ICC World Cup on Thursday , leaving captain Angelo Mathews pleased as punch. After a crushing defeat to New Zealand and a scrape-through win against Afghanistan , the 2011 runners-up showed plenty of intensity to beat subcontinental neighbours Bangladesh by 92 runs at the Melbourne Cricket Ground . Centurions Tillakaratne Dilshan ( a career-best 161 off 146 balls ) and Kumar Sangakkara ( 105 off 76 balls ) set up the win by adding 210 for the second wicket after Lahiru Thirimanne contributed 52 in a 122-run opening stand with Dilshan. After tough times in their previous two games , Mathews at last looked pleased . " Of course , they [ Dilshan and Sangakkara ] were brilliant tonight to be honest. The start that they got , Thirimanne and Dilshan. Dilshan was amazing , they got off to a brilliant start and they took calculated risks and it was a brave effort by the three batters , " Mathews said at the post match-presentation . But Mathews refused to call it a clinical performance. " It was kind of a clinical performance by the whole team. Well , I would n't say clinical because we were slightly sloppy on the field. We could have done better. Once you get that 300-plus mark , the bowlers have the freedom to go there and bowl freely . " Of course it 's important to peak at the right time and I think when it comes to the quarter-finals that 's when it matters. We 'll try and take one game at a time and try and win all the games. The boys are on a high and they played pretty well in the last two games and we are ready for the England game. " Mathews ' counterpart Mashrafe Mortaza , meanwhile , blamed his team 's bowling and fielding that let Sri Lanka post a huge total. " Fielding was costing us , but at the same time I think the bowlers were n't up to the mark. Hopefully , next match , we will come up with good things , " he said . Mortaza agreed that Sangakkara and Dilshan 's batting efforts cost them the match but hoped things would be on the up from here. " Definitely they [ Dilshan and Sangakkara ] are superstars , they are great players and they showed their character today , they played really well. Definitely win , without win we ca n't think anything and I hope that this was our worst game in this tournament , " Mortaza said . Dilshan , who scored his 21st ODI ton and third in the World Cups , was pleased to have put the disappointment of the first two matches behind. " I am really happy with today 's innings. Last game I got out first ball against Afghanistan [ against New Zealand , he scored 24 ] . I am still enjoying my cricket , that 's why I said every single moment I am enjoying in the middle. When I cross the line I am not thinking about my age , I just try to enjoy every single ball , " Dilshan said . On batting alongside Sangakkara , the 38-year-old said : " He is a great player , no doubt about it , in the world. I think we have had more than 14-15 hundred partnerships with Kumar. We share a lot of experience in the middle and we discuss how to handle the next five overs , how to go to the batting Powerplay and I enjoyed batting with Kumar. I am happy with the performance today. " Dilshan also hailed fast bowler Lasith Malinga who picked up three wickets , including the scalp of Sabbir Rahman who top-scored for Bangladesh with 53. " Lasith came back strongly and he 's getting back to rhythm , good sign for us. Everyone batted well , myself , Kumar and Thirimanne. I think this is a good game for us before we go to the big games , " he said . © Cricbuzz Tags
