Perth , Thu , Feb 26 2015 by Tanmoy Mookherjee Last updated on Thursday , 26 February , 2015 , 02 : 24 PM The Round House at Fremantle is vastly different from the one at Camden Named Walyallup by the Nyungar people , Fremantle is a port city Image credit : Tanmoy Mookherjee © Cricbuzz The Round House at Fremantle is vastly different from the one at Camden. The structure in the heart of the hippy part of London became a bustling arena for music and theatre after being transformed from its earlier iteration as a locomotive shed. This one , overlooking the Swan river across the city of Perth , was once a prison , and is the first building in the Swan River Colony . The Fremantle railway line stands between me and the Panopticon structure. A flat-bed version of a train passes through endlessly as we wait to cross over to a place where time seems to have stopped. There is more to Fremantle than an afternoon wind named after it . Image credit : Tanmoy Mookherjee © Cricbuzz A hot summer 's day in Perth needs an early start and with the Indian team not practicing , it is the ideal time to take in the awesome vistas along the Western Australian coastline. The windows are rolled down with the aquamarine Indian Ocean gleaming on the right and an endless queue of multi-million dollar real estate on the left. This is Malibu , only in Australia. And with sharks . Beaches with pristine white sand merging into the sea pass by and the drive ends into 'Freo'. From a luxurious and modern part of town left behind to entering one that screams heritage , this is quite a transformation . Named Walyallup by the Nyungar people , Fremantle is a port city that predates the founding of Perth in 1829 and remains steeped in undiluted history. While Perth has flourished , Fremantle retains its 19th-century charm with stunning convict-built architecture and a Bohemian vibe that has a buzzing art scene . The Royal Perth Yacht Club 's shock victory in the America 's Cup in 1983 , the premier sailing event in the world , broke the New York Yacht Club 's 132-year winning streak that began in 1857 - also the longest winning streak in the history of any sport. It brought the prestigious event to Freo , the overwhelming choice as the venue for the next edition , and even though the race was lost , it began an influx of people into the city . The city had reached a state of disrepair when the local administration decided to begin a rejuvenation project , and by 1987 it was restored to its former glory. Twenty-eight years later the administration faces a similar challenge and has proposed a grand plan to revitalize the area , although the locals have n't warmed up to the idea . The vision for the city is for a revamp by the year 2029 , which will include reconnecting the city through the harbour and making the Victoria Street bridge car-free. The Kings Square precinct is due for a makeover too , but the general feeling among residents and tourists is not one over a drastic redevelopment but the need to revitalize the city in spirit . Image credit : Tanmoy Mookherjee © Cricbuzz Walk down any of its perfectly manicured streets and run into quaint book shops and stores selling vinyl records , and a delectable choice of restaurants dotting Cappuccino Street. The architecture of the city is exemplified by some of the iconic hotels like the magnificent Esplanade and the Notre Dame University . Freo 's foundation is reflective of its colonial past ; the port had established a prison - it is part of the convict era of Western Australia - that later became the residence of the head constable and now serves as a tourist spot after shutting down in 1991. The Youth Hostels Association has already begun work on renovating the women 's prison cells into accommodation options for backpackers . While the city of Perth is a testimony to modern architecture and its swanky new Central Business District a reflection of its booming economy , Freo is a sepia-toned throwback to Western Australia 's eventful history and fascinating heritage . © Cricbuzz
