Travelling fans give India an extra edge : Shikhar Dhawan Perth , Fri , Feb 27 2015 by Tanmoy Mookherjee Last updated on Friday , 27 February , 2015 , 09 : 58 AM Dhawan said that the huge MCG crowd inspired the team to a stirring victory over South Africa in their last match India will face UAE in their third league game at the WACA Bhuvneshwar Kumar is most likely to replace injured Mohammad Shami in the playing XI Dhawan said India are not taking UAE lightly. © AFP Shikhar Dhawan , the India opener , has said the team 's legions of fans thronging stadiums in Australia has been a big influence in India 's performances in the ongoing 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup , and their presence - particularly filling up the 86,000-capacity Melbourne Cricket Ground inspired the team to a stirring victory over South Africa in their last match . " It 's a great feeling to have so many fans over here , and we saw that in Melbourne in the last game , " Dhawan told reporters on the eve of India 's third Group B game against the United Arab Emirates at the WACA ground. " It was amazing to see so many Indians at the MCG - it was a great feeling. I really enjoyed playing in front of 86,000 people. It gives a very good feeling that our fans have followed us here and they give us so much importance. I feel because of them we get that extra edge. " Contrary to popular perception of approaching their game against an Associate nation casually , Dhawan said they would be play against UAE with the same intensity and purpose that helped them register back-to-back victories over stronger oppositions. India will , however , be without head coach Duncan Fletcher , who has flown to Cape Town to attend his father-in-law 's funeral , as well as fast bowler Mohammed Shami , who has been ruled out of the game to recover from a knee problem . " Duncan is our main coach , and we 're going to miss his presence inside [ the dressing room ] , but I assume we 're going to follow the same routine , " he said. " He must have discussed everything with the support staff and we 're just going to go and play our game. " While the Associate members have n't set the tournament on fire , Ireland did manage to overcome a tall West Indies target to register a victory.Tteams like UAE too have impressed by putting up strong totals and eye-catching performances on the field . Despite arriving in Perth on Monday , Indian players trained only twice over the last five days , with the first practice session only dedicated to fielding drills and a game of football , but Dhawan said the team would not be taking its foot off the pedal on Saturday . " It was good to have a few off days and now we are here for practice , so we 're going to prepare ourselves for tomorrow and just going to play the game the way we have been playing , " he said , but conceded the team has n't spent any special homework against UAE. " I have n't watched their videos yet. Once I go back to the hotel after practice , I 'm going to watch , and then maybe I 'll give consideration to that. " India have n't tinkered with their team combination during the last two games but injury to Shami has meant there would be a change in the playing XI , and Bhuvneshwar Kumar is most likely to take up his place on Saturday . © Cricbuzz Tags
