Glenn Maxwell , Pat Cummins Included in Australia PM 's XI vs England Glenn Maxwell , Pat Cummins Included in Australia PM 's XI vs England Former Test batsman Michael Hussey will captain the team in the January 14 game at Canberra 's Manuka Oval which comes ahead of the triangular one-day series involving Australia , England and India . Last updated on Monday , 05 January , 2015 13 : 19 IST Total Shares File Photo of Glenn Maxwell . © AFP Paceman Pat Cummins and all-rounder Glenn Maxwell will get to press their cases for World Cup selection after being named Monday in the Australian Prime Minister 's XI to play England. ( MS Dhoni 's retirement came as a shock : Virat Kohli ) Former Test batsman Mike Hussey will captain the team in the January 14 game at Canberra 's Manuka Oval which comes ahead of the triangular one-day series involving Australia , England and India. ( Virat Kohli 's selection dilemma ahead of SCG Test ) " Pat has been in excellent form bowling fast for ( domestic Twenty20 team ) the Sydney Thunder this summer , while Glenn can electrify the crowd with his daring and aggressive stroke play , " chair of the national selection panel Rod Marsh said. ( SCG to honour Phil Hughes with Bronze Plaque ) Also chosen in the team are fast-bowlers Jason Behrendorff and Simon Mackin and batsmen Cameron Bancroft , David Moody and Jake Doran , 18 , who will also be wicketkeeper. ( Phil Hughes ' family to attend SCG Test ) Papua New Guinea batsman Lega Siaka , 22 , has also been included. Lega scored a century for PNG in their first one-day international series in November when they defeated Hong Kong. ( MS Dhoni 's absence could hurt India ) " This team is an exciting mix of emerging talent and big name players , " said Prime Minister Tony Abbott , who had some input into the team chosen by Cricket Australia 's selection panel . " This fixture promises to be an exciting day in what 's shaping as a memorable summer of cricket in Australia. " The cricket World Cup begins in mid-February and is jointly hosted by Australia and New Zealand . PM 's XI - Mike Hussey ( captain ) , Cameron Bancroft , Jason Behrendorff , Matt Condon , Pat Cummins , Jake Doran , Peter Handscomb , Simon Mackin , Glenn Maxwell , David Moody , Lega Siaka. 12th man : Mac Wright . Story first published on : Monday , 05 January 2015 10 : 51 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
