Match Preview , India vs UAE : India aim to tick more boxes against UAE Perth , Fri , Feb 27 2015 by Tanmoy Mookherjee Last updated on Friday , 27 February , 2015 , 11 : 16 AM With Mohammed Shami out of the game with a knee injury , either Stuart Binny or Bhuvneshwar Kumar mat get a look in UAE skipper Mohammad Tauqir was positive ahead of the match and was confident of his team standing up to the defending champions Having negotiated the two strongest teams in their group already , India will be aiming to tick more boxes against UAE. © AFP The last time India played an ODI at the WACA ground in Perth , they lost their last nine wickets for 97 runs in the last league match of the Carlton Mid tri-series against England , a problem that was not looking like going away anytime soon. However , since the start of the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup however that problem has been put to bed with the team going on to post 300-plus totals against the bowling might of Pakistan and South Africa . Having negotiated the two strongest teams in their group already , the next week for India at Perth poses a different conundrum , especially when they face UAE on Saturday : how to approach the game , and what are the positives they are hoping to take out of facing an Associate team that has lost both its opening fixtures . A cue to that was visible during the team 's training session on Friday. While the top-order batsmen went about their usual routine of facing quick bowlers , spinners and a barrage of balls delivered by the sidearm device , captain MS Dhoni had a longer-than-usual batting session at the WACA nets . In the first session , assistant coach Sanjay Bangar sent in deliveries with the sidearm device which Dhoni negotiated with a straight bat , and proceeded onto the next practice wicket to face the spinners. He took a break after that longish stint and observed the other batsmen while having a light-hearted conversation with the media assembled towards the side , before heading up to Virat Kohli and team director Ravi Shastri , swinging his arms without bat in hand . While Kohli obliged his young fans with autographs and by acknowledging their cheers , Dhoni went back in to face the sidearm device , this time hitting the ball with the ferocity people have become accustomed to. The Indian captain has observed the team 's only visible flaw during this tournament so far , which is not being able to capitalize in the last five overs of the innings , and settling for 300 when they should have got 320 or 330 . With Mohammed Shami out of the game with a knee injury , India have been forced to rethink their combination for Saturday , with Stuart Binny or Bhuvneshwar Kumar the likely replacements , even though both their involvement in the training session did n't indicate as to which of the two would get the nod. While Bhuvneshwar bowled without any discomfort in his ankle that forced him to miss a majority of the Australian tour , Binny also bowled in tandem with his pace-bowling colleague before going on to have a bat towards the end of the team 's practice session. Binnys performance in India 's last game at Perth - he took 2 for 36 from his 10 overs - may tip the scales in his favour . India may not be losing any sleep over their opposition but seem to be addressing some of their concerns judiciously , something that may make them reconsider their decision to bat first after winning the toss. Teams in this competition have generally found it difficult to chase down totals with the exception of Ireland and Zimbabwe , who overcame UAE in a high-scoring chase , and India may want to go down that road to test themselves before facing West Indies in their next match . UAE , on the other hand , have impressed despite narrowly missing out on victories against Zimbabwe and Ireland under the watchful eyes of the Pakistani duo of Aaqib Javed and Mudassar Nazar , the team 's head coach and batting coach , respectively. Shaiman Anwar 's quickfire century was n't enough for the team as captain Mohammad Tauqir lamented in his interaction with the media , saying the batsmen needed to take a cue from his efforts in order to bat longer . Tauqir , however , was positive ahead of the match and was confident of his team standing up to the defending champions , and would be proud of the improvements his team has shown in all three aspects of the game after a poor World T20 last year . India 's bowlers have turned in strong performances in both their games and UAE would have their hands full against Umesh Yadav and Mohit Sharma on a bouncy WACA pitch. Lack of swing in the hot and windy city will encourage the batsmen to play their strokes , but a bigger threat to their batsmen would be in negotiating the spin duo of R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja . Probable XIs India : 1. Shikhar Dhawan , 2. Rohit Sharma , 3. Virat Kohli , 4. Ajinkya Rahane , 5. Suresh Raina , 6. MS Dhoni ( capt and wk ) , 7. Ravindra Jadeja , 8. Stuart Binny/Bhuvneshwar Kumar , 9. R Ashwin , 10. Mohit Sharma , 11. Umesh Yadav UAE : 1. Amjad Ali , 2. Andri Berenger , 3. Krishna Chandran , 4. Khurram Khan , 5. Swapnil Patil ( wk ) , 6. Shaiman Anwar , 7. Rohan Mustafa , 8. Mohammad Naveed , 9. Amjad Javed , 10. Mohammad Tauqir ( capt ) , 11. Manjula Guruge © Cricbuzz Tags
