Shikhar Dhawan keeps calm and carries on Perth , Fri , Feb 27 2015 by Tanmoy Mookherjee Last updated on Friday , 27 February , 2015 , 12 : 07 PM After enduring one of his most difficult phases during the recent tour of Australia , Dhawan finally struck form in the game against Pakistan Dhawan 's mantra to success is just staying calm Dhawan 's mantra to success is just staying calm. © Getty In an advertisement for the host broadcaster for the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup , Shikhar Dhawan is seen singing 'Keep calm ' , an ad jingle that became popular during last year 's IPL. When he uttered those words in a press conference on the eve of India 's third league game against the UAE , you could have confused it with the now-iconic British war cry during World War II , considered an icon of popular culture : Keep Calm and Carry On . After enduring one of his most difficult phases during the recent tour of Australia , Dhawan finally struck form in the game against Pakistan , cutting and driving his way to 73 before being run out. Against South Africa , though , he corrected that blip too , and converted his second straight 50-plus score into 137 as India soared to their second win of the tournament. Dhawan 's form has also had a positive effect on the rest of the team as they registered their first competitive victories ever since arriving in Australia last November. He must have changed something , surely , to transform into the Dhawan of Mohali . " Just staying calm , working hard and keeping my work ethic strong , " Dhawan reflected. " Of course , it 's always a learning thing. I enjoy the journey rather than the destination. So I was enjoying that phase of my life too , and I learned a lot. I changed a few things , but not any major things. Just little things. Maybe you wo n't be able to see - it 's that little of something. I was just [ trying to ] enjoy the tour. " Let 's just consider that " enjoying that phase of my life " bit lost in his mind 's translation , but it must have been a difficult phase. A batsman with that many chances would have been dropped a decade ago , but under MS Dhoni he kept getting picked in the hope he will turn it around. Until he had run out of rope ahead of the Sydney Test , and saw KL Rahul make a hundred in his second Test match in his place . Despite modest returns in the following tri-series , Dhawan was persisted with and turned it around with his typically aggressive strokeplay. Team director Ravi Shastri has often stressed on backing players and the result is the opener 's confident return amongst runs . " His [ Shastri ] presence is very big on our side ; he has always given me a lot of confidence , especially when I needed it , " he said. " Ravi is central to my team-mates and my support staff. Because of that today I 'm scoring runs - it is because my team-mates and my support staff have supported me. " The results have been overwhelming , but Dhawan 's travails against Australia 's pace attack throughout the summer was highlighted by the eagerness to score quickly , a trait he was n't able to suppress during his lean patch. Dhawan , however , did n't notice any discernible change in his approach , even though he feels more confident with runs under his belt . " When you play back-to-back good innings , you get that extra confidence or edge going into the third innings. I feel it 's a very normal thing. Whenever a batsman is going to start his innings , he always feels that thing. It 's very natural and I feel it all the time. It 's a very normal thing , " he said . The confidence is visible in the way he has countered the short ball over the last two weeks , which had become his scourge in the past three months. Against Pakistan and South Africa , however , Dhawan pounced on anything short and wide , and while his straight driven six off Dale Steyn would make the highlights package in a heartbeat , a ferocious pull shot off Morne Morkel was the pick at the MCG . " Yes , you can say that I 've got used to the bounce finally , " he said , laughing. " I enjoy playing my shots , so whenever I get a chance , whenever I get loose deliveries I go for my shots. It 's good to see it 's going the way I want and I 'm enjoying it. " Dhawan 's return to form in the World Cup has allowed India to maintain an aggressive approach in the middle overs instead of negotiating them. A strong opening partnership with Rohit Sharma will only help in continuing the early momentum India have gained as they move towards the business end of the competition . © Cricbuzz Tags
