Rilee Rossouw 's flying uppercut will be etched in fan 's mind Sydney , Fri , Feb 27 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Friday , 27 February , 2015 , 03 : 18 PM Rossouw scored 61 off 39 balls and combined with AB de Villiers for a 134-run stand De Villiers scored the fastest 150 in ODI history , finishing with 162 not out off 66 balls Rossouw scored 61 off 39 balls. © Getty The magnificence of AB de Villiers ' unbeaten 162 was so alluring that it put everything else that happened at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Friday in shade. But after South Africa walloped the West Indies by a massive 257-run margin in the ICC Cricket World Cup Group B match , de Villiers made it a point to train the spotlight on his team-mates . There was praise for Hashim Amla and Faf du Plessis , more for Rilee Rossouw and Farhaan Behardein for wanting to rotate the strike but striking a six when asked to play his game. Kyle Abott 's incisive new ball bowling that kept the West Indies ' spirit from mending. And there was great mention of leg-spinner Imran Tahir 's control and variations . The gentleman that he is , de Villiers also had a word of consolation for his counterpart , Jason Holder , who he hammered for 64 runs off his final two overs. " Jason is actually a really nice guy. I think every captain goes through really tough games. I know for sure that he 's mature enough to handle it. There 's no doubt that the West Indies will bounce back , " he said . Yes , it was de Villiers ' night on the field with his blazing strokeplay and off the field with his reluctance to allow his knock to overshadow everything else. But the left-handed Rossouw can take credit for having sparked his captain into turbo-charge mode with his own intensity and energy , first with running between the wickets and then with some dashing strokes . " Rilee played a big part in me getting off my feet. I did n't feel too well when I was walking out to bat , really flat , and he had a lot of energy about him , a lot of intensity. He was getting into really good positions , making it look flat out there , which was n't the case the previous 10 , 15 overs. So I fed a lot off him , " de Villiers said of the man he shared a 134-run stand with . The Proteas ' skipper played an outstanding knock alright with strokes all around the park. There was an inside out loft over cover off Suleiman Benn and a paddle over fine leg from outside off-stump off Andre Russell that made the stadium gasp in collective joy. There were exquisitely timed drives and savage pulls that deposited the cricket ball in the stands . The Bloemfontein left-hander was eager to show that he belonged to the Big Tent. He had had a disastrous run in his first 10 ODI games but having got two hundreds at home against the West Indies , he was confident from the moment he walked in to replace Faf du Plessis in the middle , sensibly running hard with his skipper when the boundaries were hard to come by . Rossouw showed he also could play delicate and destructive. He late cut Jerome Taylor when the pacer offered him width in Batting Powerplay. Back in the change room in the Members Stand at the hallowed SCG , Rossouw 's mentor in the team , JP Duminy would have nodded in appreciation , even though he himself had to cede his place to the young batsman on Friday . Yet , Rossouw 's six over point off Taylor will be etched in the mind for a long time. He leapt to connect a ball that was rising high outside the off-stump with an outstretched bat. It lay strong claims to being the best uppercut executed with vertical footwork. That stroke also challenged some of the audacious strokes de Villiers played on Sunday . And in doing that , Rossouw made sure that the penumbra would be bright , too . © Cricbuzz Tags
