England hope lightning does n't strike twice Wellington , Sat , Feb 28 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Saturday , 28 February , 2015 , 06 : 37 AM England were dismissed for 123 in their previous encounter in Wellington against New Zealand . In the last 12 ODIs between England and Sri Lanka , Sri Lanka have won eight and lost four . Last time England were in Wellington , Tim Southee picked up 7/33 to bowl England out for 123. © Getty England are back in Wellington , where on February 20 they were bowled out for 123 in 33.2 overs and lost to New Zealand by eight wickets with 226 balls remaining. That defeat equaled their heaviest defeat in terms of balls remaining , and against Sri Lanka at the Westpac Stadium on Sunday they will be looking to be much , much better than their last trip here . Chris Woakes , the fast bowler who emerged from Brendon McCullum 's assault with exemplary figures of 3-1-8-2 on that dismal day last Friday , chose not to dwell on any possible trepidation of England 's return to the 'Cake Tin ' and instead said this World Cup fixture was an opportunity to go back and right a wrong . " I think we 've got a good opportunity to turn things around really , " he told reporters ahead of a training session at the Basin Reserve at the other and of Wellington. " Obviously , last time we were there it did n't exactly go to plan. It 's hard to read too much into that game , I suppose. We were pretty poor. We obviously did n't get a total on the board , and Tim Southee bowled exceptionally well , as well. Hopefully we 're past that now and can put that behind us , but it would be good to get back there and show people what we can do. I think it 's a good opportunity for us to put that completely behind us , and as I said before , show people what we can do and put in a solid performance. " To be better , England will need to bat better. In their last match , against Scotland in Christchurch , they were 172 for 1 in 30.1 overs and ended up with 303 for 8. After Ian Bell and Moeen Ali departed , Gary Ballance , Joe Root and James Taylor fell cheaply and skipper Eoin Morgan was far from fluent during his 42-ball 46. It is likely that Ballance will lose his place at No 3 , with Ravi Bopara fitting back into the batting order . These two teams know a lot about each other , having played 12 ODIs in the last 12 months. Sri Lanka won eight of those in the course of series wins home and away , and so England know what their challenges are. During their 5-2 defeat in Sri Lanka , England often competed in spurts and struggled against spin overall , with only Root really showing a masterly grip of how to score off Sri Lanka 's slow bowlers. While spin is not expected to play a big factor in Wellington - after Daniel Vettori 's 20 wickets in 20 ODIs here , the next most successful spinner is Jeetan Patel with seven - England will need to be wary of the threat in Sri Lanka 's ranks . With Jeevan Mendis ruled out of the World Cup due to injury , the spinning responsibility has increased on veteran Rangana Herath , and Sri Lanka coach Marvan Atapattu hinted at playing the offspinner Sachithra Senanayake who has 14 wickets in seven ODIs against England at an average of 14.57 and economy of 3.73. Herath , 36 , has featured in each of Sri Lanka 's World Cup games so far , taking two wickets while playing a holding role and Atapattu felt he was doing well. " Rangana has been good , but it 's different conditions for him , " he said. " Obviously the ball has n't turned as much as it does , but having said that , our seven match series against New Zealand , he was a big factor when we won , the two games that we won , so on the day , on the wicket , conditions may change. " Sri Lanka have bounced back from defeat in the tournament opener in Christchurch on Valentine 's Day , winning against Afghanistan and Bangladesh to currently occupy second place in the Pool A points table. While the Afghanistan win took some doing - they won with four wickets and ten balls in hand - there was enough for Atapattu to believe the team was ready for tougher examinations . " Certainly , the last two games have been good for us , although we came very close it was a very close game against Afghanistan , " he said. " Having said that , we would expect our No 8 to score the way he scored in the Dunedin game. Yes , we would like to take game by game at this stage. We know in World Cups every game is important , and peaking at the right time is the most important thing. We as a group believe in that , and we think game by game , and hopefully we have a good result tomorrow. " Sri Lanka did not train at the Basin Reserve today owing to what Atapattu termed " a tough day " of travelling from Melbourne , and players were allowed much-needed downtime. Several of them took to the streets of Wellington , with Lahiru Thirimanne enjoying a leisurely stroll of the city 's central business district on his own. England trained under a harsh sun , following two days of what Woakes termed as " hard practice " , undoubtedly seeking to get their World Cup campaign on track. The forecast for Sunday is warm , but Wellington 's notorious wind can be expected to play a factor . Probable XIs England : 1 Ian Bell , 2 Moeen Ali , 3 James Taylor , 4 Joe Root , 5 Eoin Morgan ( capt ) , 6 Ravi Bopara , 7 Jos Buttler ( wk ) , 8 Stuart Broad , 9 Chris Woakes , 10 James Anderson , 11 Steven Finn Sri Lanka : 1 Lahiru Thirimanne , 2 Tillakaratne Dilshan , 3 Kumar Sangakkara ( wk ) , 4 Mahela Jayawardene , 5 Dimuth Karunaratne , 6 Angelo Mathews ( capt ) , 7 Dinesh Chandimal/Sachithra Senanayake , 8 Thisara Perera , 9 Rangana Herath , 10 Lasith Malinga , 11 Suranga Lakmal © Cricbuzz Tags
