Wellington , Sat , Feb 28 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Saturday , 28 February , 2015 , 08 : 58 AM There is a noticeable Indian presence in New Zealand 's capital , Wellington , as highlighted in this photo. ( Credits - Jamie Alter ) © Cricbuzz The bus rolls up the windy hill street , past Ambala Street , then Punjab Street. It heaves at Calcutta Street , taking a sharp left , then picks up pace as it passes Madras Street , eventually coming to a hissing stop at the local train station , Simla Crescent. I descend from the bus and begin walking to the junction of Simla Crescent and Lucknow Terrace , taking across the train tacks onto Simla and then a left into Amapur Drive. I walk up the winding , at times steep road and see , to my right , Satara Crescent , and to my left , Nadia Grove. Eventually I come to my first destination : Gavaskar Place. Eighty-odd meters ahead , I see my second : Kapil Grove . If you imagine I am in a hill station back in India , think again. I am standing in the plush Wellington suburb of Khandallah - yes , pronounced just like the hill station in Maharashtra 's Western Ghats - which is about a 15-minute train ride from the city. The view from the top of the hill is stunning , the capital in the distance and immediately in front a canvas of lush green foliage and the sea . Khandallah is a predominantly white suburban setting , with well-manicured lawns in front of large houses. Each street I walk down has an assortment of Bentleys , BMWs and Audis. One cottage hidden by overhanging trees has a Bentley and a Morris Minor parked in the tiny driveway. In 20 minutes that I am in the neighbourhood , I do not spot a single resident at a front door , mailbox or garage. A total of five cars drive by , each with at least one Caucasian person in it. A dog barks at me as I come too close to a hydrangea bush , and even that is a cocker spaniel. Forget Indian people , there do n't seem to be any people here. Its like the set of Pleasantville , minus the cast and crew . So how , you ask , did Khandallah gets its Indian flavour ? An early resident , Captain James Andrew , settled here after serving in the Indian Army and was , it appears , quite taken by his time in Asia. After purchasing a large portion of the hilly neighbourhood , Captain Andrew ensured India was represented when the streets were named. Hence we have roadsigns with origins in India : apart from the aforementioned streets , there is Delhi , Ramphal , Poona , Amritsar , Benares , Gaya , Vasanta , Baroda , Agra , Mysore and Bombay. Quetta Street and Kandy Crescent have also been sprinkled into this concentrated area . Some of the streets actually had existing names before Captain Andrew came and changed them to remind him of India. Tennis Court Road became Delhi Crescent , McKenzie Terrace became Ganges Road and Peter Street turned into Maldives Street. I learn that the name Khandallah comes from Khandela in Rajasthan , another sign of the Captain 's nostalgia . That does n't explain why Sunil Gavaskar and Kapil Dev have signposts in their names , but with nobody around to ask , and local journalists at a loss to explain why , that is a question that will probably remain unanswered . It 's a hot day , and after huffing and puffing my way up the hill to take in Gavaskar Place and Kapil Drove , I am sweaty and parched. I could really do with a fresh lime soda sweet , or a lassi. Where are the Indians when you really want them ? The Mahatma Gandhi statue just outside the Wellington Railway station. ( Credits - Jamie Alter ) © Cricbuzz Just outside the Wellington Railway Station is a statue of Mahatma Gandhi. Another reminder of Wellington 's India bent . As I walk towards the central business district , I hear the familiar sound of drums beating in a very identifiable way. I follow the tune of the music and find myself looking at four Indians dancing in a small square. A Sikh man is beating a dhol with superb skill , while two men and a woman dance to its beats. The dhol gets louder and faster and the two jiving men encourage onlookers to join in the bhangra. One tall , gangly white guy does , and in truth puts in a pretty decent first-time leg shake. I think fleetingly about getting closer and joining in , but better sense prevails. I nod to the beats of the energetic dhol until the sound is drowned out by passing buses and music from a mall. Katy Perry. Hmmph. She ai n't got squat on the dhol . Just to highlight that India 's presence is in all direction , there is also a Bangalore Club in Wellington. ( Credits - Jamie Alter ) © Cricbuzz As I walk on , I notice the Bangalore Polo Club , where diners eat and drink and laughter filters through the warm air into the street. I hear glasses clink and a piano playing . A quick recce of the upmarket restaurant cum lounge and I find out that it owes its title to a victorious polo team from the south Indian city of Bangalore that " burst onto the scenes and stole the headlines and hearts of the nation " in February 1859. The Bangalore Badgers , as they were called , won numerous trophies and title , with a storied rivalry with the 15th Lancers of Calcutta ( now Kolkata ) . In what can only make me chuckle , I read in the late 19th century there was some confusion about the sex of the team , owing to a mistake with uniform printers turning out their team shirts as The Bangalore Beavers . I do n't go into the club after taking a glance at the costs , but am taken back to my four-plus years in Bangalore when I replenished myself at several of the city 's many watering holes. Cheers to that . © Cricbuzz
