Innings report : UAE crumble to Ashwin 's spin at pacy WACA Perth , Sat , Feb 28 2015 by Tanmoy Mookherjee Last updated on Saturday , 28 February , 2015 , 09 : 16 AM R Ashwin picked up 4/25 at Perth. © Reuters Today has been the day of bowlers. It took 55.3 overs for the New Zealand-Australia game to be decided , and after United Arab Emirates were shot out for 102 by India in 31.3 overs , it meant the game was well on its way to be over , possibly not overshadowing the thrilling contest that took place in Auckland . R Ashwin took 4 for 25 , Ravindra Jadeja chipped in with 2 for 23 and Umesh Yadav had 2 for 15 , and every other Indian bowler was amongst the wickets to deem it a no-contest even before the Indian chase began. UAE 's narrow defeats to Zimbabwe and Scotland were encouraging signs for them and a cause of slight worry for India , but the defending champions steamrolled their weak opponents. Save for Shaiman Anwar 's 49-ball 35 , only two other batsmen reached double figures . Buoyed by their previous efforts , UAE captain Mohammad Tauqir decided to have a bat under the blazing sun at the WACA ground and was made to regret his decision as soon as Umesh Yadav dug it in short to get the glove from Andri Berenger. Bhuvneshwar Kumar , who was included for Mohammed Shami , dug it in short and had Amjad Ali caught behind. Whoever turned up at the bowling crease got a wicket ; such was the procession at the WACA . UAE 's best batsman on show , Shaiman Anwar , who came in at No 6 , could only watch as Ashwin , Jadeja and Mohit Sharma struck in succession to reduce them to 71 for 9. But , Anwar took a cue from Brad Haddin and Kane Williamson earlier and began farming the strike. UAE had somewhat seen off the damage caused by the faster bowlers earlier , but against Ashwin and Jadeja they looked all at sea with the surface offering generous turn . Anwar found support from No 11 Manjula Guruge and added 31 for the last wicket , their biggest partnership of the innings , but it was n't enough for the UAE , who were bowled out for the lowest total in their short ODI history . Brief scores : UAE 102 in 31.3 overs ( Shaiman Anwar 35 ; R Ashwin 4/25 , Umesh Yadav 2/15 ) v India . © Cricbuzz Tags
