Dhoni pleased with bowling efforts Sat , Feb 28 2015 Last updated on Saturday , 28 February , 2015 , 09 : 56 PM India beat UAE convincingly by nine wickets The R Ashwin-led Indian bowlers skittled UAE for 102 in 31.3 overs The India captain also praised his batsmen in equal proportions. © Getty For the third time running , the Indians bowlers gave a good account of themselves in the ICC World Cup and played a big role in the team 's nine-wicket win against United Arab Emirates on Saturday. Following the win that brought India several steps closer to the quarter-finals , MS Dhoni , the leader of the side , was happy that his bowlers stuck to the plans designed for them. " They had quite a few plans , I think it 's important that in these conditions you have to execute your plans. The margin of error - you have to make sure that you are not giving the opportunities to the batsmen to score freely. So I feel the bowlers have really stepped up and also you know , in a team sport , it starts reflecting in other departments also , " the India captain said in the post-match presentation . After the R Ashwin-led Indian bowlers skittled UAE for 102 in 31.3 overs , Rohit Sharma ( 57 * ) and Virat Kohli ( 33 * ) shared a 75-run stand for the second wicket to see the team home in 18.5 overs. Dhoni praised the batsmen in equal proportions . " I feel the batsmen are also doing a good job and fielding has been good. Yes , we dropped one catch today , overall the fielding has been good. Well , when we were losing quite a few games outside the sub-continent , that was the main area of concern. We were not able to get wickets in the middle overs and because of that , the opposition had too many wickets in their hand , especially in the last 10 overs. So , we were not really able to capitalize , " Dhoni said . " Now , what we are seeing is we are getting wickets with the new ball and at the same time , because of that , in the middle overs the spinners are able to put pressure on the batsmen. Overall , as a complete unit they are doing well. Of course , it 's one thing to do it in one game but they have shown that they can do it in game after game. So I think it 's good for us but we have to continue the good effort. " Ashwin , who registered a career-best 4 for 25 , was introduced in the 11th over and put the wind up the opposition straight away , taking a wicket off his second ball. The offspinner was happy to have made the most of the opportunity of bowling a bit earlier than usual. " I bowl at such phases of the game , it 's more of cutting the runs out , it can get a little difficult , but [ the lack of a four-wicket haul ] was playing on my mind today after the first five overs. When it comes to this format , I 'm pretty much unselfish , it does n't matter if I get the numbers or not as long as I put in the effort required. My wrist is getting into a good position , and that helps with the arm ball , the breeze helped as well. It was good to play the big teams initially , now we 're on a roll , " Ashwin said . Meanwhile , Dhoni 's counterpart , Mohammad Tauqir was disappointed with his batsmen and said they did n't bat to their potential. " Yeah , it was not a par score on this wicket. I think we were outplayed by the Indian bowling , they bowled really well , and in good areas. We should have scored 200-plus. He ( Ashwin ) bowled brilliantly , we could n't cope with his bowling , and I think he was getting good bounce and turn on this wicket , bowled really well , " Tauqir said . The UAE captain also defended the team decision to keep playing the in-form Shaiman Anwar at No 6. " I think that 's our batting-order , we know that he can score a lot of runs down the order. It 's the top-order that needs to be a bit more responsible and score runs for us. We need to stick to the basics , play out the 50 overs and put some runs on the board. But India outplayed us and good luck to them for the rest of the tournament , " Tauqir said . © Cricbuzz Tags
