New Zealand 's pace bowling can win them the World Cup : John Morrison Wellington , Sun , Mar 01 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Sunday , 01 March , 2015 , 04 : 05 AM Morrison played 17 Tests and 18 ODIs between 1973 and 1983 Morrison believes Brendon McCullum 's side has the best bowling attack in years In his second spell against Australia on Saturday , Boult bowled three overs , took five wickets and gave away just one run © Getty The current New Zealand cricket team led by Brendon McCullum is the best ever from the country to enter an ICC World Cup , feels the former international John Morrison , largely because of the quality of fast bowling it has and the leadership of the captain. McCullum 's team has won four out of four World Cup matches to sit atop the Pool A points table , and Morrison believes they have the potential to go all the way in the tournament . " I feel the side that bowls the best , and I 'm talking genuine pace and swing , will win the World Cup , " Morrison , who played 17 Tests and 18 ODIs between 1973 and 1983 , told Cricbuzz on Sunday. " And this New Zealand side has a very good pace attack. [ Tim ] Southee and Trent Boult were expected to do well , and they have so far - two five-wicket hauls to each of them - and then you factor in young [ Adam ] Milne and the left-armer [ Mitchell McClenaghan ] who has n't got a game yet , and you realise what they 're capable of doing. Southee against England here last week and Boult up in Auckland yesterday - wow , those were terrific spells of fast bowling. The Aussies have struggled against genuine swing and seam , as history shows us - look at that Ashes series when England had four swingers of the cricket ball - and you saw that again. Terrific bowling from New Zealand , and that can take them a long way. So yes , you 'd have to say this is the best New Zealand team to play a World Cup. " In late 2012 , New Zealand went through a messy time after their coach Mike Hesson stripped Ross Taylor of the captaincy , saying a change had to be made. In what was a public relations nightmare for New Zealand Cricket ( NZC ) , the issue dragged on with Taylor making himself unavailable for a tour to South Africa , McCullum being handed the reins in all three formats and Hesson saying it was never his intention for Taylor to lose the Test captaincy , rather just the ODI and Twenty20 roles . Morrison , who served as NZC 's representative on the ICC 's refereeing panel , feels that the incident made this team tougher , and one critical result is that McCullum , a " much more sorted player now " , has been able to inspire the team . " That was a tough time for us , but I believe we 've come out of it stronger , " he says. " Leadership was lacking , coherence was lacking. The change in structure has been good. Players are closer , I think. It 's brought out the best in McCullum , which is terrific. A lot of people questioned whether Brendon had the ability to lead , you know - brash , cocky and all that. But he 's done well and I believe he is getting better. You see that on the field he takes decisions and he backs them. They may not always be the best ones , but he backs his choices completely. Against Australia yesterday , there was plenty of intent shown by McCullum , persisting with his main bowlers to pick up wickets in the middle overs. Great intent. He only used three bowlers , and they rolled Australia over for 151. " McCullum has spoken highly of Kane Williamson recently , twice backing him to become " New Zealand 's greatest batsman " by the time he retires. It was a view that Morrison , 67 , concurred with considering Williamson 's red hot form - 902 runs in the last 12 months at an average of 75.16 and strike-rate of 91.37 , with three hundreds and five fifties . " He 's our best player , no question , in all formats , " says Morrison , who enjoyed a successful career as a radio commentator and anchor and also served as a city councilman for Wellington. " If you look at his strike-rate , it 's amazing. Yesterday I heard people say that he anchored the chase , but I said 'hold on , he 's just got 45 off 42 balls'. It 's not like he pottered around. It goes back to the argument that if you play good cricket shots , you play around the ground , you 're going to do bloody well. If you just go out and slog , you 're limiting yourself to one area of the ground . " Williamson does it in such a quiet manner. No nonsense , does n't get involved in banter , controversy. He just says 'my job is to go and score runs ' and he 's humble about it and gets on with it. I think the number of runs that he 'll score , if everything keeps going , they [ New Zealand ] will be world class. " © Cricbuzz Tags
