Innings report : Misbah , Riaz stand tall in average Pakistan performance Brisbane , Sun , Mar 01 2015 Last updated on Sunday , 01 March , 2015 , 08 : 22 AM Misbah-ul-Haq notched up his 40th ODI fifty . Tendai Chatara was the pick of the Zimbabwe bowlers with figures of 10-2-35-3 . Misbah-ul-Haq 's 40th ODI fifty and a late flourish from Wahab Riaz helped Pakistan to 235/7. © Getty Misbah-ul-Haq stood tall amidst the ruins with a gritty 73 and he was aided by a 45-ball fifty from Wahab Riaz as Pakistan 's batsmen put on an average performance to finish on 235/7 against Zimbabwe in the Pool B encounter of the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup in Brisbane on Sunday . Misbah 's performance was a lesson to the other batsmen on how to combat the conditions. With the ball swinging generously both in the air and off the seam , strokemaking was attritional but he weathered the storm and held firm to give his bowlers a target to bowl to . Earlier , in bright and hot conditions , Pakistan chose to bat and had a disastrous start with the openers departing cheaply yet again. Tendai Chatara was the wrecker-in-chief when he struck in his first over. Nasir Jamshed , who had scores of 2,30,0 and 0 in his previous four ODIs , once again fell to a poor stroke as he tamely pulled a short ball straight to Sikandar Raza at square leg to depart for 1. In Chatara 's next over , he got Ahmed Shehzad with a delivery that straightened just outside off and the batsman poked it to the keeper to depart for a 10-ball duck . With Chatara and Panyangara bowling with tremendous discipline , run-making was difficult. Haris Sohail tried breaking the shackles when he punched Chatara straight down the ground for a boundary but Zimbabwe continued to grind Pakistan down . Both Sohail and Misbah buckled down and made slow progress. The 54-run partnership was helping Pakistan recover but Sikandar Raza struck with his first ball when Sohail ( 27 ) pulled a short ball straight to short midwicket. Umar Akmal arrived and the scoring rate quickened. He regularly rotated the strikes and attacked when the opportunity was presented . Zimbabwe had a nervy moment in the 24th over when Misbah drove Tawanda Mupariwa to extra cover. Elton Chigumbura , the Zimbabwe skipper , gave chase and prepared to dive to get the ball back in but his knee jarred into the turf and he was in pain. He was gingerly helped off the field and scans revealed that there was a possible quadricep tear and he will bat if required . The partnership between Akmal and Misbah threatened to take the game away from Zimbabwe. Misbah notched up his 40th ODI fifty and he looked good to score his maiden ODI century but Sean williams changed the game in the 34th over. He cleaned up Akmal ( 33 ) with a delivery that was angled in and it gripped the surface to spin away to hit the top of off stump. Enter the evergreen 35-year-old Shahid Afridi. It was his birthday and Pakistan fans expected that he would bash the Zimbabwe bowlers away. However , Williams blew the candles away and played the party-poopers role perfectly when he bowled Afridi with a similar delivery to the one that accounted for Akmal. It was Afridi 's first duck in World Cups and it was his 30th in ODIs , the second-most by a batsman behind Sanath Jayasuriya 's tally of 34 . Pakistan scored only 27 runs in the batting Powerplay and they were jolted further when Misbah holed out to long-on to depart for 73. Zimbabwe 's death bowling , which was taken to the cleaners during the games against South Africa and West Indies , put in a better show. However , Wahab Riaz hung in there and struck some lusty blows towards the end. He also benefited from some sloppy fielding. Zimbabwe missed two run-out chances off him and Riaz was also dropped on 41 by Stuart Matsikenyeri as he notched up his maiden ODI fifty. He smashed Tinashe Panyangara for two boundaries as Pakistan finished the innings with a flourish . Brief scores : Pakistan 235/7 in 50 overs ( Misbah-ul-Haq 73 , Wahab Riaz 54 * , Tendai Chatara 3/35 ) . © Cricbuzz Tags
