Irish death bowling banks on man who dealt with suicidal thoughts Canberra , Sun , Mar 01 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Sunday , 01 March , 2015 , 08 : 41 AM John Mooney , who starred in Ireland 's epochal victory over England in the 2011 World Cup at Bangalore , battled depression alone and thought about taking his own life The 33-year-old had the courage to make that crucial phone call to his wife Lena and , subsequently , undertake many sessions of counselling If John Mooney puts his best foot forward , it would mean another forward step taken in his journey. ( Pic courtesy G Rajaraman ) © Cricbuzz Ireland have won both their opening ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 games , thrillers really , against West Indies and the United Arab Emirates. But when they square up against South Africa at the Manuka Oval on Tuesday , they will be hoping that John Mooney , the allrounder who dealt with suicidal thoughts , will make his presence felt with the new ball and at death . Mooney , him of the tattooed arms , has started this edition on an unhappy note. He was fined 30 per cent of his match fee for swearing during the dramatic defeat of the West Indies in Nelson ; and while Ireland edged out the UAE in Brisbane , his helmet caught the eye the grill offered the back of his neck protection . But it a miracle that he is playing at all. The 33-year-old , who starred in Ireland 's epochal victory over England in the 2011 World Cup at Bangalore , battled depression alone , thought about taking his own life but had the courage to make that crucial phone call to his wife Lena and , subsequently , undertake many sessions of counselling . " It would have been an easy decision to have gone through with the plan that I had , but to just say it to her , to go through the services that I have gone through and the help that I have gone through was without doubt the best decision I have ever made , " Mooney had told Irish public radio , RTE Sport in September last. " A lot of men do not talk about their feelings. " Mooney was chatting up with an official broadcaster after a hard training session on Sunday but coach Simmons , relieved that the fast-bowling allrounder was back in love with the game , told Cricbuzz.Com that he is hoping Mooney would rediscover his bowling just as he made peace with life . " What John Mooney went through is unimaginable. When we decided to send him back home from the West Indies in February last year , we understood how hard he had been on himself. Incidents like this and Phil Hughes ' death show that cricket is but a small , if significant , part of our lives , " Simmons said . " The team and Cricket Ireland rallied around him well. It is part of the culture in our dressing room to be good human beings first and then good professional cricketers , " Simmons said. " Everyone involved must realise that that it is important to care for one another and be around through thick and thin. Cricket is but a sport and life is larger than that. " When Mooney puts his best foot forward , Phil Simmons and the team will be delighted. ( Pic courtesy G Rajaraman ) © Cricbuzz As rain gave way to bright sunshine over the Australian Capital Territory on Sunday afternoon , coach Phil Simmons held a brief chat with the bowling group , Mooney included. The team has struggled with its bowling at the death , conceding 167 runs to the West Indies and 142 to the UAE in the final 15 overs . The Irish will be have to find their best bowling plans against a team that is packed with strokemakers and on a ground where Chris Gayle notched up the first double century in World Cup history. They will be aware of the fate that befell the West Indies bowlers at the larger Sydney Cricket Ground when the Proteas captain AB de Villiers made a magical 162 not out . Yet , when Mooney puts his best foot forward , Simmons and the team will be delighted. Not only for the immediate impact on the game but also because it would mean another forward step taken in his journey . © Cricbuzz Tags
