Playing under two captains has n't disrupted us : Starc Perth , Sun , Mar 01 2015 by Tanmoy Mookherjee Last updated on Sunday , 01 March , 2015 , 08 : 45 AM Mitchell Starc said playing under two different captains has not disrupted Australia . Australia take on Afghanistan in a must-win game in Perth on March 04 . Mitchell Starc 's wonderful 6 for 28 nearly gave Australia victory over New Zealand in Auckland on Saturday. © Getty Mitchell Starc , the Australian fast bowler , has said the change in captaincy from George Bailey to Michael Clarke was n't a reason behind their one-wicket loss to New Zealand on Sunday , and that his team will be backing Clarke throughout the tournament as he has just returned from a lengthy layoff . Clarke 's return to international cricket after being injured during the first Test against India was delayed after Australia 's second 2015 ICC World Cup Group A game against Bangladesh was washed out in Brisbane. George Bailey had led the team in its opening fixture against England in Clarke 's absence . " I 've played under both George and Michael for quite a few games and I do n't think this has disrupted us as a group. Michael is a great leader and the boys back him 100 percent and if he not there the boys back George Bailey. Mike is fit and ready to go and he 's the captain , so everyone backs him , " Starc said upon the team 's arrival at Perth , where they play Afghanistan on March 4 . Starc produced a career-best performance in Auckland on Sunday when his 6 for 28 nearly pulled off an improbable win over New Zealand with a superb exhibition of fast bowling , but New Zealand hung on for a one-wicket victory . " To be honest , we were looking for a win , but now we are looking forward to Wednesday to hopefully get a win and with it get some momentum , " he said. " To get so close and miss out by only one wicket is a bit disappointing , but we did n't do enough throughout the course of the match. We got close but the way we performed all round , I do n't think we deserved to win. " After Australia were bowled out for 152 , New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum tore into their bowling attack , including a vicious assault on spearhead Mitchell Johnson , whose first four overs went for 52 runs , but Starc reckoned they did well to come back into the match . " You have to assess the situation ; we changed the gameplan throughout the day a little bit for McCullum he 's been batting so well for a long time now so you have to think on your feet in such time , " he said. Pat Cummins did that well by changing the pace ; in the end we got close but not close enough . " New Zealand have been playing good cricket for such a long time , but it was an off day for us. You do n't go out there , lose all your wickets and try and score 150. It was an off day and we will try to rectify it on Wednesday. " From New Zealand , Australia turn their focus towards Afghanistan , and Starc said they would look to get back among winning ways , like they have exhibited all summer. " The fast and bouncy WACA wicket will be nice - we have a couple of training days to get used to what will hopefully be a fast and bouncy wicket for us bowlers we 're just looking forward to get in there and win another game. " " Mitchell Johnson is back home now it 's his home ground so he will be up for a good performance. He has done really well for us in the last couple of years so I have no doubt he 'll do the job for us again on Wednesday. " © Cricbuzz Tags
