Misbah relieved after first win Sun , Mar 01 2015 Last updated on Sunday , 01 March , 2015 , 02 : 11 PM Misbah-ul-Haq 's joy knew no bounds following the win. © AFP Pakistan captain Misbah-ul-Haq had his bowlers to thank for keeping the team alive in the ICC World Cup following a 20-run win against Zimbabwe on Sunday. Batting first , the Pakistanis put up a sub-standard 235 for 7 , after which they needed Mohammad Irfan and Wahab Riaz 's heroics to keep Zimbabwe at bay. At the post-match presentation , Misbah breathed a big sigh of relief to have at last registered their first win in three matches . " It was really tough , because it was make or break for us. We were in a must-win situation. You ca n't believe how happy we are , because we would be out of the tournament if we lost this game , " Misbah exulted . Talking about the team 's batting , Misbah , who made 73 and helped the innings recover from 4 for 2 , said , " Pitch was n't easy , it was holding up , it was a bit two-paced. When I went there I found it really difficult to rotate the strike. I was thinking if we could get to 250-260 it would be really challenging , because we had five regular bowlers. We were 15-20 runs short after losing those wickets , but the kind of quality the bowlers showed , the fielding was also good , credit should be given to the fast bowlers , the way they bowled today. " Misbah was all praise for Irfan whose three quick wickets at the top went a long way towards derailing the Zimbabwean chase. " When there is extra bounce , Irfan is the kind of bowler , if somebody has n't faced him before , it can be really difficult , especially in Australian conditions. We need to really work hard , because we need to improve our batting. Other teams are getting to 300 , 280 , 290. We need to start well and capitalise , " Misbah said . Another player who along with Irfan set up the win was Riaz who displayed his all-round side ( 54 * and 4 for 45 ) , becoming the first Pakistan pacer to score a fifty and take four wickets in a match since Abdul Razzaq 's 63 * and 4 for 53 against Australia in Perth in 2005. " The discussion [ with Misbah ] was to play all 50 overs and if we take chances , we will do that in the last three or four overs , and rotate the strike till then. The team management are working really hard with me , they believe I can do something with my batting. Thanks to them and thanks to Almighty Allah , " Riaz said after picking the Man-of-the-Match award . " At the start the ball was not coming on to the bat , not going through quickly , but we had to work hard , I think the way the fast bowlers and Shahid Afridi bowled , credit has to go to us. We know there were not many runs on the board and Irfan bowled really well. I want to dedicate this trophy to my dad and my mum. They will be really happy. " Meanwhile , Misbah 's opposite number Elton Chigumbura , who came into bat at No 8 because of a quadricep injury he picked up while fielding earlier in the day , was disappointed to have wasted a golden opportunity after the bowlers did such a good job. " I 'm still to go for a scan , I will know tomorrow morning. Today the bowling was much better , thought we executed well , but we gave away too many extras , if you are being critical about our bowling , " he said . " It 's disappointing to lose a game like this when we felt we had a good chance of winning. Hamilton getting out was the turning point. We have to learn from this. We have n't had one guy scoring a hundred and carrying us through. That 's where we need to improve. " © Cricbuzz Tags
