Diary : The Windies saunter in and win Perth over Perth , Sun , Mar 01 2015 by Tanmoy Mookherjee Last updated on Monday , 02 March , 2015 , 09 : 40 AM Image credit : Tanmoy Mookherjee © Cricbuzz Chris Gayle is protecting himself from the hundreds of eyes trained at him. Darren Sammy is giving him company. Jason Holder has found a new meaning to captaincy as he poses for pictures with people. Curtly Ambrose , toothpick in mouth , turns left and then turns right to oblige anyone who wants an autograph or a picture. Andre Russell , after enthralling the crowd with his singing skills , walks over to a small section of Indian journalists and begins banter ahead of the his team 's game against India on March 6. The West Indies are in town , and it is a party . They are n't having the best time in the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup , but that does n't stop them from having a good time. A Caribbean party welcomed the team in Perth on Sunday , and after the formalities , the players took centre stage and dazzled the hundreds that had assembled at the Perth Cultural Centre , with Gayle the obvious crowd-puller . * * * * Gayle is here. Gayle is there. Gayle is everywhere. Half of the security assigned for the event was dedicated to the big Jamaican who scored the first double-hundred in World Cup history recently. On stage he came to life , singing along with the Jamaican band that belted out Reggae classics , but the moment he decided to step down he was mobbed. A line of security formed a ring around him - not that the security guards were any bigger than him - to screen any request that came Gayle 's way . * * * * Image credit : Tanmoy Mookherjee © Cricbuzz The West Indies team was in full attendance , their superstar coaching staff in tow , and whoever came near with a request for a picture was not turned away. The team took the stage and greeted their fans , and while some were mobbed , others sauntered about soaking it all in. It must be Jamaica. It is not . Ever imagine getting fist-bumped by Richie Richardson ? Ask if The Dread and the Baldhead will perform at any stage of the event , he replied in the affirmative. Even though Richardson and Ambrose did n't combine for a musical time here , he appreciated the gesture . * * * * The current West Indies fast bowlers do n't evoke the same fear , nay awe , when they 're around. Jerome Taylor , Kemar Roach , Holder himself and Sheldon Cottrell , were well within themselves , away from the limelight their previous generations were used to. One look at Ambrose and you realise it. The West Indies bowling coach remained the second-biggest crowd puller after Gayle . * * * * Image credit : Tanmoy Mookherjee © Cricbuzz The Jamaican band belting out Jamaican classics teamed up with Gayle and a teenager to raise the enthusiasm among onlookers , and when Gayle crying out " Sulee , Sulee " urging Suliemann Benn to join in fell on deaf ears , Russell took up the mantle and enthralled the crowd with his singing talent. Russell merged rap and reggae with effortless ease as he does with his bowling and power-hitting , and kept those watching hooked. Russell obliged with more than a song and won everyone over , before he moved on and entertained this writer as well . * * * * Image credit : Tanmoy Mookherjee © Cricbuzz Engaging in playful banter with Indian journalists , Russell compares the atmosphere here with that of India. " It 's very similar , " he reckons. He enjoys singing and does n't engage in strumming the guitar , he confesses. Like Gayle would hog the limelight if asked who the best singer is in his group , so does Russell. The time he has spent in India during the IPL or with the West Indies team has him hooked to Bollywood music , and while we yearn for some nice reggae instead of electronic drab playing out , Russell entertains us singing " Tu Mera Hero " from a well-known Bollywood film , and dances to it in spontaneity . Russell 's mohawk and beard is straight out of Mr T 's face , and when I needle him into answering if Rocky III was an inspiration behind his appearance , he answers otherwise. " Mr T picked it up from me , " he says before uttering the lines " I pity the fool " to complete the image in this writer 's mind . He bids goodbye to us after a long conversation about music , and after having another playful conversation with Clive Lloyd , the West Indies players thank their supporters and get set for a game against the defending champions . There is something about the West Indies. They are upset by Ireland one day and flatten Pakistan the next , before being steamrolled by South Africa. You do n't know which West Indies will show up against India , but when it comes to something outside of cricket , you know what you 're going to get : a good time . © Cricbuzz
