The Basin Reserve , where history and time stand still Wellington , Mon , Mar 02 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Monday , 02 March , 2015 , 03 : 19 AM The iconic Basin Reserve in Wellington is the oldest first-class venue in New Zealand. ( Credits - Jamie Alter ) © Cricbuzz India are 15 for 4 , carved up by Simon Doull in the first hour. Mohammad Azharuddin flays a drive through the covers off Doull , tongue protruding , taveez flapping out of his unbuttoned shirt. He taps the pitch a few feet away. Doull runs in. Azhar stays back , flashes four more over gully. Later in the match , Tendulkar presses forward and drives Chris Cairns for four past mid-off. Dion Nash is cut off the back foot , the ball flying into the boundary boards at deep backward point. On the grassy banks , children run around , little New Zealand flags wave in the sun. Men and women dip into baskets , bring out sandwiches and sip on flasks. It looks like a picnic to this teenager , watching on a grainy television set in the Himalayas. It seems a bit unreal . Seventeen years later , looking down at the Basin Reserve , this old cricket ground is just as I pictured it. The banks are still there - they are empty today - the rolling Mount Victoria and the Wakefield memorial and St Mark 's Church keeping watch behind it. The ground looks like it could be 1998 , and the touring Indian team could begin to walk out of the players ' enclosure at any moment . The iconic ground - the oldest first-class venue in New Zealand - does not host as many internationals as it used to ( since 2000 , the Westpac Stadium has been Wellington 's home for ODIs ) but it remains steeped in tradition because , critically , it is protected by the Act of Parliament. Thus it is an open park , with a cemented walkway from the Kent and Cambridge Terrace entrances , allowing the public to walk past at their leisure. " Please be alert - cricket training or a match may be in progress , " read signs at both entry points. Cyclists and skateboarders hurry past . I stroll around the perimeter , taking in the lush green outfield and picturing Tendulkar and Azhar batting here. Then I think about having a morning run here. Atop the Don Neely scoreboard , white seagulls perch gently. What a picturesque little ground . The New Zealand Cricket Museum is located in the Old Grandstand of the Basin © Cricbuzz After a few minutes sitting in the shade of the empty stands , I join a pick-up game of soft ball cricket with two members of the World Cup volunteer squad. Then I walk up the steps of the Old Grandstand , in which resides the New Zealand Cricket Museum. The next half hour is spent taking in the assortment of memorabilia and history inside the little museum , at one stage with the voice of John Arlott transporting me to an era long gone. The museum chronicles the origins of the Basin Reserve , how it became Wellington 's home of cricket on December 11 1866 but was not used for cricket until two years later. Representative English ( 1882 , 1888 ) , Tasmanian ( 1884 ) , Australian ( 1886 ) and New South Wales ( 1890 , 1894 ) sides toured here. A Fijian team made their first visit to the Basin Reserve in 1895. New Zealand 's first Test match was played at the Basin Reserve on January 24 , 1930 . There are rare DVD footage to keep fans of cricket hooked. Bert Sutcliffe talks about his famous last-wicket partnership with Bob Blair at Ellis Park against South Africa in 1953-54 ; Peter Petherick enlightens us about his hat-trick on debut versus Pakistan ; John Wright talks about his Test debut and playing a part in New Zealand 's maiden Test win over England . There is a large section of a wall dedicated to the " best-ever New Zealand XI " , selected by Don Neely , Frank Cameron and Gavin Larsen , which is , in batting order : Glenn Turner , Stewie Dempster , Bert Sutcliffe , Martin Crowe , John Reid , Martin Donnelly , Chris Cairns , Richard Hadlee , Ian Smith , Daniel Vettori and John Cowie. I wonder how long it is before Brendon McCullum and Kane Richardson elbow their way in , and if so , who goes out. McCullum last year became New Zealand 's first Test triple-centurion , is currently leading what looks to be the country 's best World Cup squad ever assembled - theyve won four out of four - and the skipper has twice publicly called out Williamson as potentially being New Zealand 's " greatest ever batter " . The ICC Knockout Trophy of 2000 , New Zealand 's only ODI silverware , sits proudly in a cabinet. Among the rarer pieces of cricketing lore here are the Addington bat of 1973 , the third-oldest in the world , and one of Dennis Lillee 's aluminium bats. There is a shaving brush engraved with WG Grace 's monogrammed initials. There are items that belonged to Nancy Doyle , the " no-nonsense Irishwoman " who for over 30 years served lunches in the Lord 's dining room , the personalised inscriptions from famous cricketers indicating how cherished a figure she was. The tiger skin rug presented by the Maharaja of Vizianagaram , when he was president of the Indian cricket board , to John Reid during New Zealand 's 1955-56 tour of India and Pakistan , lies on display. A ticket to The Foolish Kings by the Crazy Gang in Victoria Palace from an England tour can also be found. Clarrie Grimmett 's Bodyline blazer hangs inside the museum too . One cabinet holds collectors cards , cricket magazines , mugs , beer cans , one of Chris Martin 's white headbands and a Demon Duck caller as endorsed by Danny Morrison. Next to that cabinet is a framed autographed scorecard of New Zealand 's " four centurions " versus Australia at the WACA in December 2001 - Stephen Fleming , Nathan Astle , Adam Parore and the debutant , Lou Vincent . I exit the museum , which runs on charity , feeling satiated. I take another look out at the Basin Reserve. The sun is out , the seagulls still sit atop the scorecard , and in the middle there 's a member of the ground staff operating a mobile lawnmower. I shut my eyes momentarily. A straight drive from Tendulkar 's bat pings the straight boundary , just like it is 1998 . © Cricbuzz
