Mountain fire leaves Steyn , du Plessis worried Canberra , Mon , Mar 02 2015 Last updated on Monday , 02 March , 2015 , 07 : 56 AM Dale Steyn is slated to play his 100th ODI against Ireland on Tuesday. © Getty A fire broke out in wee hours of Monday near the Muizenberg Mountains area in Cape Town leaving South African cricketers Dale Steyn and Faf du Plessis worried on the eve of South Africa 's Pool B World Cup clash against Ireland at the Manuka Oval in Canberra. The fire that lit up the Muizenberg area of Cape Town overnight , has already damaged at least four houses while authorities succeeded in evacuating the other houses . Fire fighting and rescue teams have been deployed in the area where strong winds fanning the flames have prevented water bombing helicopters from dousing the fire. The destruction caused by the fire left Steyn and du Plessis worried about their homes in the neighbourhood. The duo took to Twitter to voice their concern . " Massive fire behind my house in Stonehurst ! Plz be safe and watch out for the mountain animals trying to escape it , " Steyn tweeted . Steyn , who is scheduled to play his 100th ODI on Tuesday , was originally slated to attend the pre-match press conference but was replaced by teammate Farhaan Behardien in the last minute. In his presser , Behardien , while admitting that the whole team was worried about the situation in Cape Town added that neither Steyn nor du Plessis would be fazed by the situation . " Of course it does affect you in some sort of way , but we have quite a strong support structure around us , the people , the friends and the family that 's here , " Behardien said. " If there 's any opportunity to help them out or comfort them , we will do so , but I do n't foresee it being a problem at all for both Dale and Faf. It 's just one of those things. But the World Cup is quite important , it 's actually very important. " Meanwhile , Behardien also heaped praise on Steyn 's pedigree as the leading fast-bowler of the world. Incidentally , Steyn 's 100th ODI comes 10 years after his debut , a clear indication on how he chose to pace himself in the shorter format to concentrate on Test cricket.Behardien said he had faced Steyn in domestic matches and was glad that they were on the same side more often than not . " It 's not fun facing Dale Steyn when he 's at full tilt , " he said. " We all know what a wonderful performer he 's been over the last 10 years , the number one Test bowler.The fire and energy he brings to the bowling unit is awesome. A hundred caps is a wonderful achievement. Something I aspire to do , something most cricketers aspire to do . " One hundred caps playing for your country is a massively proud moment. We will try and celebrate his 100th game with a win. We will be fighting tooth and nail come tomorrow. " Steyn , who has 154 wickets from his 99 ODI appearances will look to cap his landmark day and inspire South Africa to their third win of the tournament . These little animals will also need ur help ! Hope the homes do n't get hit ! pic.twitter.com/het4JQIZJ9 — Dale Steyn ( @ DaleSteyn62 ) March 1 , 2015 Crazy mountain fire near my new house.hope they can stop the fire before it does more damage. @ DaleSteyn62 pic.twitter.com/823s5er21t — Faf Du Plessis ( @ faf1307 ) March 1 , 2015 © Cricbuzz
