Faulkner set to return against Afghanistan Mon , Mar 02 2015 Last updated on Monday , 02 March , 2015 , 11 : 17 AM Faulkner bowled six overs in a practice session on Monday. © AFP Pat Cummins ' injury may turn out to be a blessing in disguise as it can pave the way for allrounder James Faulkner who has n't featured in Australia 's first three World Cup matches on account of a side strain he picked up in the final of the triangular series against England early last month . Cummins also suffered a side strain in his team 's one-wicket loss to New Zealand last week and is a doubt for the Afghanistan game on Wednesday at the WACA in Perth . Faulkner , who is a proven match winner with both bat and ball , had a nice practice session on Monday and bowled six overs without any trouble . " If I get through today I am available for selection , " Faulkner had said prior to Monday 's optional team training session . " I bowled a couple of overs ( last week and was ) pretty close , the difference is the intensity of an ODI . " I will have a solid hit out today and hopefully I recover well and be out here [ at the WACA ] on Wednesday afternoon . " I was batting five or six days after the injury and they [ the Aussie team management ] told me to ease back on it . " In the first two weeks I was pretty much going 100 per cent [ batting ] which was a good thing . " I think I was lucky being a left-arm bowler and a right-arm batsman , it was n't the same side when I was batting. " In the wake of the Cummins injury , Josh Hazlewood , who was left out against New Zealand , was the favourite to take the fast bowler 's place but with the new development regarding Faulkner , he might be overlooked again. Faulkner washed his hands of the matter before hitting the practice session . " I 'm not too sure what they [ the team management ] want to go in with , that 's purely up to the selectors , " Faulkner said . " All I can control is about getting back out on the park and giving myself a chance of playing again . " The rest is n't my job and it 's not for me to worry about. That 's their decision at the end of the day. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
