Andy Moles in for the long run with Afghanistan Perth , Mon , Mar 02 2015 by Tanmoy Mookherjee Last updated on Monday , 02 March , 2015 , 01 : 43 PM Afghanistan coach Andy Moles has tempered his team to do the right things regularly © Getty As coach of one of the Associates in the tournament , Afghanistan coach Andy Moles has already checked one box in the objectives list he would have set for himself , that of registering a win , when his team beat Scotland in their second Group A fixture. After making a strong start against Bangladesh in their opening match , they lost out to the more experienced team. They were also on the ropes against Scotland before the tailenders took them over the line . While they must be overjoyed , it surely is n't the only target they are after. In Australia , at the imposing WACA ground , they face their toughest opponents yet and sterner tests lie ahead but Moles 's demeanour about not worrying over the opposition is a sign of the many things they still have to do before they leave . The work Moles has put in over in the seven months since he was appointed head coach will now be put to test when they face teams of the stature of Australia , and later New Zealand , but in an interview to Cricbuzz , he says that qualifying for the 2015 edition of the tournament was only a start. The wheels have been set in motion , and Moles tries to temper his team , passionate as they are , to do the right things regularly . " All I 've tried to bring on board is to make them understand the importance of everyone contributing to the game , so that everybody leaves a thumbprint , " Moles says. " At the end of a game , it ca n't have passed you by without you making a contribution. With the bowlers and the batters , just working with the guys to do the boring things for longer - bat more balls , bowl more balls in the right areas , doing the basics right in the field. To do that you have to be fitter so we work on the fitness levels. " Moles has had a chequered history coaching national teams. His association with Kenya , Scotland and New Zealand all ended sooner than he would have expected , and while he has had a smooth run for the seven months he has been around in Afghanistan , he has definitely settled in. With access to better facilities and getting a hang of the needs of professional sport , Moles has tried to imbibe a level of professionalism into his team , which his predecessors had begun . " We are fitter now - we can practise for four or five hours in a day whereas before we could n't do that. We have got our fitness levels right , which means we train harder and for longer on the cricketing skills , and take responsibility in games. You have a job to do if you bat in the top three - bat for 15-plus overs , set the game for the middle order. For the bowlers up front , their role is to get wickets so that the change bowlers and spinners can go and do their jobs. " For now , everyone in the team seems to be pulling in the same direction with the majority of the team in the peak of their playing careers. The story of a war-torn country making it to the big stage of a sporting competition is n't enough as the World Cup will come around again . The ICC has already made the next edition a 10-team event , and it would allow for lesser teams to compete against each other before taking one the lower-ranked Test-playing nations to attain Test status , and it is this objective that is primary in Moles ' list of goals with this team . " The key thing is to do well in the ICC Intercontinental Cup , because the winner of the Intercontinental Cup in three years ' time will be able to challenge sides like Bangladesh and Zimbabwe , " he says. " We 'll play one 'Test ' match , and whoever wins that game will get Test status. It 's a three-year program and that 's where we go from here. " As has often been the case with Associate nations in the past , teams who made their way into World Cups could n't continue to feature due to lack of talent coming through , and Moles is keeping an eye out for that. A bigger pool of players is being prepared behind the national team to keep the continuity and balance of youth and experience going . " The good thing is that we have got another 20-25 cricketers of genuine quality at home underneath this group from the age of 18 to 25 , " he says. " We will work harder on them over the next two years so that they filter into the side and keep the momentum going . " When we have camps at home there are 30-40 players at the camps and I have seen them all. I have n't seen the Under-19s - we have a good batch of Under-19 cricketers. Moving forward - I have been with the side for seven months - so for seven months now I have been concentrating on getting here and working with this group for that , but I fully intend to get aligned and working with the group underneath this. I know what 's coming along so I can do my succession plan. " For now , though , Moles is trying to keep it simple to his players , and while they did soar to an improbable win over Scotland , he would appreciate his senior batsmen to exercise more caution rather than go for four sixes after hitting three. Not going overboard at times itself is a learning , and as he said earlier , do the boring things for longer . © Cricbuzz
