All-round strength behind India success : Clive Lloyd Mon , Mar 02 2015 Last updated on Monday , 02 March , 2015 , 06 : 04 PM Lloyd oversaw West Indies ' training session along with bowling coach Curtly Ambrose on Monday. © AFP Former West Indies captain Clive Lloyd believes India 's all-round strength is the reason behind their success in the ICC World Cup 2015 . India , who convincingly beat Pakistan , South Africa and United Arab Emirates in Pool B , will now play West Indies at the WACA on March 6. Lloyd , who heads the West Indies Cricket Board 's selection committee , says MS Dhoni 's men seem to be ticking all the boxes . " It 's nearly the same sort of side. India 's pace bowling seems to be pretty good and you have a good spin bowler in [ Ravichandran ] Ashwin. Overall you have got a good variety and I think India have good all-round strength , " Lloyd spoke on the sidelines of the West Indies training in Perth on Monday . " India 's middle order is pretty good. [ Virat ] Kohli has been excellent for you guys. Dhoni can do anything any time. A good all-round side is the reason why you 've been champions. I 'm sure they want to be there at the end . " Kohli has been a tremendous player over the last two years and now you have the likes of [ Shikhar ] Dhawan coming through. I think India should do well. They 've won three out of three. So we ca n't fault their bowling or their batting. India 's always a formidable side and they 'll continue to be so. But when you set a standard , people expect you to keep that standard all the time. India are doing well but I hope they do n't do too well on Friday. " When asked whether the bouncy wicket at the WACA could be India 's undoing , Lloyd , who captained the winning West Indian sides in 1975 and 1979 , said : " I do n't know. It all depends on the day 's cricket. You have good cricketers and I 'm sure they have played against very pacy bowlers. They will be able to combat anything that is thrown at them. One-day cricket is who plays well on the day and gets their disciplines right . " If we do that , we give them a good run for their money. They 're defending champions and they want to be in this World Cup as long as possible . " It 's obvious that this game is important to us and to you ( India ) for that matter. We want to do well and if we play to our ability we 'll be able to do so. " © Cricbuzz
