Concerns linger , but Pakistan upbeat Napier , Tue , Mar 03 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Tuesday , 03 March , 2015 , 04 : 08 AM Pakistan will hope Wahab Riaz continues his fine run of form. © Getty Pakistan and the United Arab Emirates are in the seaport city of Napier , two points separating them on the Pool B table , with contrasting aspirations in the first ODI game between the team. Misbah-ul-Haq 's unit got their first points after narrowly beating Zimbabwe , and now need to win their remaining three games to have a shot at the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup quarter-finals. The UAE , led by Mohammad Tauqir , have lost three matches and can , at best , hope to pick up a win to leave the tournament with proof that they belong . Pakistan , as so often seems the case , have batting orders to address. Misbah has constantly been asked about why the wicketkeeper-batsman Sarfraz Ahmed has not got a game , as well as why Pakistan have stuck to the same combinations. After the loss to India , they dropped legspinner Yasir Shah for opener Nasir Jamshed. Then , after that defeat to West Indies , they dropped Younis Khan for the fast bowler Rahat Ali for the Zimbabwe match. The extra bowler made a difference , as Pakistan bowled out Zimbabwe when defending 235 . Misbah defended Jamshed , who in two matches had made 0 and 1 , saying that so few innings was not enough to drop him. He also backed Shahid Afridi , who has n't clicked with the bat , to come up with a defining innings. " Nasir has just played two games , it 's not like he 's had nine or ten failures. As I have said before , we have to back players we know can deliver , " he said. " Shahid has n't clicked in a couple matches but it was n't long ago that he was making key contributions in the middle order. I am confident that he can deliver when the need arises. " Misbah took confidence from the performance of left-arm quick Mohammad Irfan , whose 4 for 30 in Brisbane had a big impact on the win over Zimbabwe. " I think he bowled really well , especially to some extent , but I was thinking that in the first two games , the opposition knows that we just have to see Irfan off because after the first 15 overs , 10 overs , he 's not bowling until the Powerplay , until the end of 30th over or 40th over. In the last game , it was totally a different scenario because we 've got four front line seamers , and the opposition knows that we have to just score runs , " he said. " These guys have to handle them. That 's why I think it gave a little bit more confidence to Irfan , also. He knows that he got the backup bowlers. He just went all out , so that really helped all the bowlers. " Amjad Javed , the UAE allrounder , was asked about the supposed threat of facing the hulking Irfan but confidently shot down that question because of the experience of having played him back home a few years ago. " Irfan ? If you have faced him in a domestic game in Dubai , I think in Abu Dhabi Stadium... if you have n't faced any bowler , if you have n't faced Dale Steyn , then that 's different , " he said. " No , they 're not scared , they 're well prepared... inshallah [ God willing ] , we 'll do well. " After being bowled out for 102 in 31.3 overs by India in Perth , UAE will hope to get back to getting good scores. As Javed was eager to point out , UAE are the only Associate team with Ireland to put up 250-plus twice in the World Cup. In their opener with Zimbabwe , UAE made 285 for 7 ( they lost by four wickets with two overs left ) and then 278 against Ireland ( they lost by two wickets with four balls remaining ) . " Every defeat makes you learn something. We went back and planned our next game. We 'll see that our batting does n't collapse again against Pakistan , " he said. " If you see our first two games , we almost upset Ireland and Zimbabwe , so definitely , yes. We are here to upset some good teams. " Considering their batting has only had one major blip , against India in Perth , it looks like the core will be retained. Rohan Mustafa , the offspinning allrounder , has not scored runs of taken wickets and so his place may be under threat . On a track that looks good for batting - New Zealand made 359 for 5 here against Pakistan last month - getting first use of the MacLean Park looks the way to go. The forecast for Wednesday is cloud , with the possibility of showers . Probable XIs Pakistan : 1 Nasir Jamshed , 2 Ahmed Shehzad , 3 Haris Sohail , 4 Misbah-ul-Haq ( capt ) , 5 Umar Akmal ( wk ) , 6 Shahid Afridi , 7 Sohaib Maqsood , 8 Wahab Riaz , 9 Sohail Khan , 10 Rahat Ali , 11 Mohammad Irfan . UAE : 1 Amjad Ali , 2 Andri Berenger , 3 Krishna Chandran , 4 Khurram Khan , 5 Swapnil Patil ( wk ) , 6 Shaiman Anwar , 7 Rohan Mustafa/Nazsir Aziz , 8 Amjad Javed , 9 Mohammad Naveed , 10 Mohammad Tauqir ( capt ) , 11 Manjula Guruge . © Cricbuzz
