No option but to cope with hectic schedule : Misbah Napier , Tue , Mar 03 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Tuesday , 03 March , 2015 , 04 : 23 AM Pakistan need to win all their remaining three matches if they are to have a chance of qualifying to the knock-outs Misbah raised concerns about Pakistan 's batting Misbah is hopeful that a crammed schedule will not affect his team with three must-win matches to go © Getty Three games in the span of a week during a World Cup , that too one in which you are playing catch-up after two big defeats , can be a tough prospect for any team but Misbah-ul-Haq believes there is nothing Pakistan can do but win to stay alive. After the match against Zimbabwe in Brisbane , they will play UAE on Wednesday. After the completion of the match , they travel to Auckland to take on South Africa on Saturday. After the match in Auckland , Pakistan have a week 's break before they take on Ireland in Adelaide in the final league game on March 15. However , Misbah is hopeful that a crammed schedule will not affect his team with three must-win matches to go . " The next six days is going to be really tough for us. That 's how it is , " he said on Tuesday ahead of Pakistan 's game with UAE. " I mean , we 're just having a lot of days off before that , even seven , eight , nine days in between the games , and now these are important games , and we have to travel in almost every game , and in six days we have to play three games. That could be really challenging for us , but we have a job in our hand so we have to do it . " Especially in the span of six days , if you have to play three games , it could be difficult for any team , especially the weather , which is totally different. We were in Brisbane , that was humid , hot , and here it 's better , so that might help us because it 's not so severe. But it 's really difficult to play three games in six days , but now we have a job at hand , so we have to deliver , and that 's very important for us. We have to win these games. " After defeats to India by 76 runs and West Indies by 150 runs , Pakistan picked up a narrow win over Zimbabwe at the Gabba on Sunday to shift the mood in the camp. Misbah admitted the team was " feeling good " after getting some confidence back , the nature of Pool B means that Pakistan could win the next three games and not achieve passage to the knock-outs . " It 's an open pool , " said Misbah. " Anything can happen , and every game is important in this pool , no matter who is playing today and who is playing tomorrow and who you are playing against. Mainly you could see that all the teams are still interested , and that 's really interesting for us , also. But we have to focus on just going there , improve our performance and try to win the games. " Misbah also has to worry about Pakistan 's net run-rate of -1.373 , considering how easily that could come into play in a tight scramble. " I think that is another question. It all depends on how we just start. Once you 've had a good start , while bowling or batting , then you can just capitalise on that , and that 's what we were eyeing against Zimbabwe as well. But then we could n't start well and struggled even just to win the game , " he said. " It 's really important for us just to go about the game thinking that we need to start well. Whatever we are doing , and then if we have that game , if we have control of that game , then we can just push for that net run-rate. " No press conference with a Pakistan player is complete without questions about their batting , which in the World Cup has combined for totals of 224 in 47 overs , 160 in 39 overs and 235 for 7 in 50 overs. The two opening combinations used so far have produced starts of 11 , 0 and 1 , with Amhed Shehzad and Nasir Jamshed , who have opened twice together , each scoring a duck. Younis Khan was dropped after scores of 11 and 0 ; Haris Sohail has made 27 , 0 and 36 ; Sohaib Maqsood has batted in three positions in three games for 0 , 50 and 21 ; Umar Akmal 's contributions have been 0 , 59 and 33 ; and Misbah has 76 , 7 and 73 . Not for the first time , he found himself fielding questions about motivating a flagging batting order , and once again he towed a similar line. " What can you do ? I mean , you have to just think positive even if somebody is not performing well at the top , " he said. " Whatever is happening is just happening in a couple of deliveries. We are losing wickets in the first over and second over , so you ca n't say much about that. But obviously we are thinking about that because we ca n't just go there the whole tournament like that . " I think it 's a serious thought , but cricket is a game of uncertainties. Sometimes you 've got four , five poor innings and suddenly you have a hundred. Our batsmen are capable of that , even in the the top order they are capable of doing that. We are looking forward to just giving them a lot of confidence. They are practicing and working hard in the nets. " The current Pakistan team finds itself in the same predicament as the side in 1992 did. Back then , Imran Khan 's team had looked down and out after losing four of their first five league matches. The side were already depleted by injury to Waqar Younis which ruled him out of the tournament. Yet they scraped into he semis after Imran , in his 40th year and nursing a troublesome right shoulder , famously told his team-mates : " Listen , just be as if you were a cornered tiger " . Misbah , however , was not one for nostalgia or references to the past , content to leave what happened 23 years ago where it was. " It 's a totally different scenario , different situation. Obviously we can take some motivation from that situation , but what is important for us now it that we just have to play well , and that 's the simple scenario for us , " he said. " Do n't just fall into 1992 that we did it , so we 're going to do it. I mean , we have to do it. We have to if we want to go into the next round. We have to really perform well tomorrow and then against South Africa and then against Ireland. These are very important games for us. If we are unable to perform in one game , we can be out of this tournament. " Indeed , fans of this Pakistan cricket team wo n't need reminding that their team was knocked out at the first stage of two of the past three World Cups , and that they are in danger of being eliminated in the first round again should they lose badly from here. Misbah may not want to look back at 1992 , in these same shores , but the shades are looking similarly grey . © Cricbuzz Tags
