No mystery behind John Morrison 's cricketing wit Wellington , Tue , Mar 03 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Wednesday , 04 March , 2015 , 05 : 57 AM John Morrison made an easy transition from cricket to commentary. Along with being a witty commentator , he is an after-dinner speaker and politician in Wellington. ( Credits - Jamie Alter ) © Cricbuzz " I 'll see you at 9 : 30 , mate. I 'll be the one in the white truck. See ya ! " With those words , John 'Mystery ' Morrison cuts the phone. Fast forward to 9 : 27 the following morning , and he brings his white Ford 4x4 pick-up truck to a stop at the curb of Victoria and Willeston Street. The door opens. " Hop in , mate. Fancy a coffee ? " And we are off , Morrison - the former New Zealand international who played 17 Tests and 18 ODIs between 1973 and 1983 - steering the hulking Ford though the streets of Wellington 's central business district as we talk cricket , eventually stopping at Cafe Leuven not far from Westpac Stadium. " Good coffee here , " says Morrison as we get out of the truck . Minutes later , a cappuccino and a trimmed flat white are placed in front of us. As the digital recorder begins sorting out Morrison 's voice from the others in the cafe , we begin talking about his post-cricket career as a successful radio broadcaster . " In my playing career , which spanned ten years , I was a bit like a yo-yo. I got dropped a number of times , and what happened in about '79 it was a game at the Basin which I was n't playing TVNZ rang up and asked if I 'd like to do a few sessions of commentary. I said 'yeah , why not ? and so they handed me a microphone and away we went. " It was that easy ? " Yup , off I went. " One of his early challenges on air was to pronounce foreign names. " Pakistan were over here and they had a bowler whose name was spelled A-F-A-Q. It was one of my first games. It looked like we 've got Afaq at the northern end and later in the day we have Afaq from the southern end , " he says with a laugh. ( You do n't need to be a genius to understand what made it tough for Morrison to keep a straight face when he was on the air. ) " A bit like Billie Birmingham and The Twelfth Man series , " I offer . Morrison laughs. " Yeah , exactly. Real comical. " Morrison recalls vividly an occasion when he was commentating with the legendary Henry Blofeld during the 1992 World Cup. " Oh mate , 1992 , " he says with a crease of the forehead and a widening of the eyes , as good raconteurs do for effect. " TVNZ had the rights but they did n't want to send us to Australia or take the Australian commentary , so they took it off the tube. So there we sat in Auckland , in the studio in front of the screen , which was hopeless. A day-night game in Australia started at 4 : 30 our time , and Blowers had been out for lunch , and mind you he was n't afraid of a drink. The lunch kicked on , as they sometimes do , and so we sat down to start the game and said to our producer 'Blowers is completely pissed , he can hardly stand up'. We were sitting there like at the front of a bus looking at this screen. It was Pakistan-Sri Lanka and Blowers had no idea who was playing. " Here , Morrison does a superb Blofeld impersonation. " 'Oh dear old Mystery , its just marvellous , is n't it ? Look how colourful they all are , absolutely marvellous. Look at them , so vibrant , it 's brilliant. ' For half an hour , he did n't mention one name or a run. It was all 'oh that 's a splendid shot , look at the fielding , oh I do enjoy this , Mystery. Marvellous. Oh look at the crowd , so colourful. Wonderful chaps'. Then at one stage he asked me 'who the hell is playing ? ' It was like the Monty Python show gone mad. I was actually thinking of John Cleese and all those guys. " Morrison recounts tales of Blofeld outside the commentary booth , particularly when out on the town. " We 'd be sitting somewhere for breakfast and old Blowers would nudge me on the shoulder and go 'Mystery , Mystery , ask me about breakfast this morning. So I would , and he 'd be like 'What a marvellous breakfast , I say. I 'm glad you asked me that. Marvellous service this morning , I say. Lovely bacon and eggs and sausages. My god , where is that place you took me to ? Ah yes , it is on the corner of such and such ' It would just flow out. " Blofeld also loved chocolate bars. " Mars Bars , jeez. Every damn day , he 'd ply us with Mars Bars. 'Have a Mars Bars , it really freshens you up , plenty of energy'. And another sack full of Mars Bars would arrive and we 'd be knee-deep in the bloody things ! " I have to ask at this stage , though I have read about it , how Morrison got his famous nickname , Mystery. " Don Neely was on my case , even when one season I was getting some wickets , chirping on about my bowling being pretty ordinary. I used to bowl slow left-arm stuff. Real threatening , " he says with a self-deprecating wink. " I 'm talking lethal stuff , the sort that comes out the hand and gently wafts onto the pitch. But Don thought I was pretty shit , and kept on asking me how I got so many wickets. So anyway , one evening after play I had a bet with the guys in the dressing room about who would take the most wickets the next day. We all pooled in , and off we went. Come the last day , I had bowling figures of four for none in fours overs. I walked into the dressing room and raised my arms and said 'time to pay up , boys ! '. Even then they wondered just how I 'd taken those wickets . " There was also a bit of a mystery as to my whereabouts , as a player , after play got over , " he adds with a sly wink . John Morrison in his younger days. He played a total of 17 Tests and 18 ODIs between 1973 and 1983. © Getty But , commentating was n't all jokes and thigh-slapping. On several occasions when on air , Morrison found himself wanting to rip his hair - and handlebar moustache and matching sideburns , as he once famously wore - out because of what he terms " total rubbish " . " I remember in the Melbourne Test of '87 , they [ Australia ] were nine down and Mike Whitney and Craig McDermott were batting. Danny [ Morrison ] was bowling and a plumb lbw was given not out , by the Aussie umpire. I 'd never seen a better lbw. Hitting about halfway up middle stump. Dead straight. Hurried on , kept a little low. It was so out , it was n't funny. The Channel Nine guys next door would brush over these things quite quickly. They always do. There was a catch behind which their 'keeper Dyer dropped behind the camera , then he picked it up again. Replays showed the ball bouncing out of Dyer 's gloves and onto the ground , and then the fellow picks up and puts it back into his gloves and bloody appeals. And we were n't allowed to hammer him for that. Stuff like that. Crazy. " " I once told the Channel Nine guys 'I do n't know how you can sleep in your beds at night ' , " says Morrison with a hearty laugh as he orders another coffee . But he is quick to credit Channel Nine for creating a culture around what he refers to as " characters " on air. " Today it 's bland. They do n't do that now , which is a shame. Not just Australia , everywhere. They just do n't assess them. They 're not interested in people. What 's the matter with talking about an incident around the world or someone doing this or that ? I think in that regards Billie Birmingham is bloody priceless. " As you can imagine with a character like Morrison , who has been a sports commentator , after-dinner speaker and Wellington City Councillor , calling a spade a spade came naturally. " People do n't realise that cricket is the second most watched sport in the world , " he says. " I remember one morning when a producer was yelling at me to say good morning to everybody around the world. I just wanted to get on with the game , not get into all these niceties. Viewers do n't tune in to have a 'good morning session'. So he asks me whether I realise that there are about 100 million Indians watching now , and I said 'well yeah , they 've tuned in to watch the bloody cricket ! ' They had n't tuned in to hear me run my own show. " Morrison can talk a lot about cricket , and loves doing so. Ask him anything , and his replies are most often laced with humour. Commentating with Glenn Turner , Grant Nisbett and Peter Williams : " The good , the bad and the ugly. " Losing a two-car deal because his co-host got sloshed and had a fight with the sponsor : " He was like # * @ ! this , # * @ ! that and the next morning , I got a call saying 'sorry , the deal 's off'. " He got involved in Wellington politics because he was " pissed off " with the local council for " burying us around with cricket grounds " . Asking for time off from his boss when he first got picked to play a Test against Australia : " He said 'well that 's fine , but it 'll come off your holidays'. " Scoring a second-innings century against Australia in his second Test : " I think people nodded off. " Playing a Test in Chennai : " Sticky. " A vital part of being a good commentator is being entertaining , I say . " Yes , I think that cricket lends itself to entertaining , " remarks Morrison. " But in some way , the producers and TV stations keep them very strict. Kerry O'Keefe was quite funny. I 've played against him and he 's a good guy , and he would tell stories about this and that and he might have pissed some people off. There 's always that danger because you tend to polarise people if you start saying things. But that 's fun also. People love to hate you as much as they love to love you. " The issue that commentators have fallen into , Morrison feels , are that they are into themselves rather than the cricket. " Probably the Aussies more than anybody else , " he says. " They are the messenger , are n't they ? They 're not the stars. " Morrison has been seen , in his own words , as " a bit provocative at times " as a sports commentator. " In recent years , one of the difficult aspects is that because the cricket media is driven by commercial and contractual arrangements , there 's no one in the world who will want to piss his boss off by bringing up anything controversial " he says. " If you start talking about whether this is right or that is wrong , or say 'hang on , New Zealand Cricket are making a big mistake ' , you 'll get someone in your ear saying switch if off. The grand old days when we had totally independent commentators are long gone . " In my era , we used to have a beer with the opposition in the dressing room. While we loved to hate the Aussies , I really enjoyed that aspect of cricket after stumps. When I had my radio show up until about five years ago , I could ring up guys like Thommo [ Jeff Thomson ] and [ Dennis ] Lillee and Max Walker , and they 'd be happy to talk. I do n't know whether it 's like that now , though maybe with all the T20 leagues they 're close enough. Cricket has great camaraderie , and we are all part of a community . " And I think that reflects when there is a disaster. When the tsunami happened in 2004 , we had three games out here with Sri Lanka. I was a match referee and it was drizzling. When I had a chat with he captains , Shane Warne and Stephen Fleming , Warne said to me 'mate , just tell me what to do and I 'll do it'. I told them that if we could start on time , it would send a message to everyone that we 're going to play. We saw it with Phil Hughes ' death too. That was amazing. We should never lose that , because the game has so many diverse countries. " Well known for his dry wit and clever turn of phrase , Morrison 's passion for cricket runs deep. Though he does n't commentate any more , his love for the sport comes out in the way he talks of days past and present. I can see why he was so popular as a commentator , even if his views did polarise opinion. Morrison is an entertainer. There 's no mystery about that . © Cricbuzz
