Preview : Batting the focus as Australia eye return to winning ways Perth , Tue , Mar 03 2015 by Tanmoy Mookherjee Last updated on Tuesday , 03 March , 2015 , 07 : 06 AM Australia need a big win to ensure that they do n't fall behind in the net run-rate race Afghanistan will be buoyed after their first World Cup win but will not have it easy against Australia Australia have fallen behind after winning their first game and will be keen to bounce back © Getty Out of the three games assigned to the WACA ground in the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup , the Group A fixture between Australia and Afghanistan could prove to be the most one-sided. After India went past UAE in the most comfortable fashion on Sunday , the second tie on Wednesday sees the hosts return after a defeat to New Zealand in their previous fixture , and itching to get back to winnings ways after their second match against Bangladesh was also washed out. New Zealand , Sri Lanka and Bangladesh are ahead of them at the moment in the points table , and one of Australia 's primary objectives would be to score a victory that aids their net run rate as well , besides bettering their position in the standings . An agonizing one-wicket defeat to New Zealand would have hurt them as they came so close to taking it despite a poor performance with the bat at Auckland. At the WACA , however , they will be at home , knowing they face an Associate nation on a venue that has favoured the home team owing to its pace and bounce . Despite registering a victory over Scotland , Afghanistan were in deep trouble at 97 for 7 before their lower order held on along with Samiullah Shenwari to overhaul a modest target , but against Australia they would n't find any let-ups. Head coach Andy Moles spoke about doing the " boring things for longer " ahead of the team 's match , urging his players to perform the roles they have been assigned to. UAE were blown away as India finished off the match inside 50 overs at the same venue , and for Afghanistan to even compete they would have to do it the old-fashioned way : bat out their 50 overs . Buoyed by their first-ever victory in a World Cup , against Scotland , Afghanistan are high on confidence , but that does n't reflect the mismatch that it is , at least on paper. Australia are currently No 1 in the ICC ODI rankings while Afghanistan are at the bottom , playing in their first World Cup. They would hope for their batsmen to click and their bowlers to fire , but against Australia they face up to a bowling attack including the Mitchells Starc and Johnson , one who took 6 for 28 to keep them in the game against the Kiwis , and the latter who rediscovered his fast-bowling mojo at his home ground . According to Australia captain Michael Clarke , fast bowler Pat Cummins , who had suffered a side strain during the loss to New Zealand , is out of the Afghanistan game in order to regain full fitness for sterner tests that lie ahead , while allrounder James Faulkner declared himself fit for the contest after having a lengthy training session at the nets . While Australia would be inclined to make a direct swap between the two , offspinning allrounder Glenn Maxwell may also miss out owing to the prevailing conditions at the WACA and be replaced by Faulkner. Captain Michael Clarke looked in good spirits at practice after making a successful return from injury at Eden Park on Saturday , which means George Bailey would remain out of contention for a place in the XI . With one victory , a washed out game and a defeat , Australia would be eyeing to return to winning ways with special focus on the form of their batsmen. Even though Aaron Finch began with a century against England , Australia 's top order has n't put together a confidence-inspiring performance as yet , as was visible during the tri-series . David Warner , Shane Watson and Steven Smith have n't made a significant impact as yet and Clarke 's return to the crease did n't last long as he was snapped up by Trent Boult early in his innings. Spending time in the middle is the need of the hour and the decision to bat first upon winning the toss is imminent . Probable XIs Australia : 1. David Warner , 2. Aaron Finch , 3. Shane Watson , 4. Michael Clarke ( capt ) , 5. Steven Smith , 6. Mitchell Marsh , 7. Glenn Maxwell , 8. Brad Haddin ( wk ) , 9. James Faulkner , 10. Mitchell Johnson , 11. Mitchell Starc Afghanistan : 1. Javed Ahmadi , 2. Nawroz Mangal , 3. Asghar Stanikzai , 4. Samiullah Shenwari , 5. Mohammad Nabi ( capt ) , 6. Afsar Zazai ( wk ) , 7. Najibullah Zadran , 8. Gulbadin Naib , 9. Dawlat Zadran , 10. Hamid Hassan , 11. Shapoor Zadran © Cricbuzz
