Not at all surprised with India 's turnaround : Ravi Shastri Tue , Mar 03 2015 Last updated on Tuesday , 03 March , 2015 , 09 : 25 AM Shastri says he had complete belief in the Indian team and the early success in the World Cup does not surprise him The tri-series before the World Cup was a needless waste of energy said the Indian team director MS Dhoni is still the boss of the team , says Shastri I have never seen any Indian batsman perform better than Virat on Australian soil : Shastri © Getty " I am not at all surprised , " said India team director Ravi Shastri when asked about the Indian Cricket team 's superb turnaround in Australia. India were wandering in a winless wilderness in competitive cricket ever since they stepped foot in Australia in November , last year. However , the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 has turned out to be a completely different story , with MS Dhoni 's side racking up three impressive wins , including the big ones against Pakistan and South Africa , and are back as favourites for the coveted trophy . Speaking to PTI , Shastri said the script , as far as the side was concerned , has gone on expected lines so far and that the break the side took just before the quadrennial event did his side a world of good. Following the three wins , India sit pretty at the top of the table in Pool B and look set to seal a spot in the knock-out stage of the tournament . " In fact , why should I be surprised that the team has started on a magnificent note ? I had complete belief in the boys and their abilities. It was a case of performing to their potential and that 's exactly what has happened in the two matches against Pakistan and South Africa. If you ask me , the script went on expected lines , " the former Indian captain said . Shastri added that the side was mentally drained following their four-Test series in Australia ( they lost 0-2 ) , and that the tri-series that followed was just a 'sheer waste of time and energy' . " I think the team was mentally drained after playing the tri-series. The boys needed to recharge their batteries and freshen up for the World Cup. The break from cricket did them a world of good as they came all guns blazing when it was required. And frankly speaking , I believe that this tri-series that we played was sheer waste of time and energy. " Heaping praise on batting mainstay Virat Kohli , Shastri said the 26-year-old batsman has been the best Indian performer on Australian soil . " I think that will be putting too much burden on one individual. He should be allowed to play freely and express himself in the best way possible , " Shastri said when asked if Kohli is destined to break all international batting records. " As far as I am concerned , I have never seen any Indian batsman perform better than Virat on Australian soil keeping Sachin Tendulkar and VVS Laxman in mind as they have done exceptionally well. I mean , show me one Indian batsman who has scored four centuries in four Test matches. He has been phenomenal. He was dominant and that 's the reason we carried the attack back to Australian camp in all the Test matches. " The team director also spoke about Dhoni , making it clear that there are no rifts within the team and that Dhoni is , and has been , the 'boss' . " Mahendra Singh Dhoni is the undisputed leader of the Indian cricket team. He has been the boss for last eight years. He has been pro-active and has always led from the front. He has been a terrific limited overs cricketer. He has won matches for India and is a calming influence in that dressing room. He has earned respect from his colleagues because he is a true leader , " he said . Shastri , who was appointed team director last August , also spoke about his role in the side. He said his message to players was to just enjoy every moment of the game . " I told them to enjoy every moment of international cricket. The key ingredient of success is enjoyment. I told the boys that take one game at a time rather than thinking about the destination. That 's what the team has been doing. These players are professionals and they know their job. My job is to be by their side and support their endeavour , " he concluded . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
