Proteas deal with Canberra 's Somnolence Challenge in style Canberra , Tue , Mar 03 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Tuesday , 03 March , 2015 , 12 : 24 PM Amla and du Plessis scored tons to set up the win. © AFP South Africa allowed the challenging somnolence of Australia 's capital to get to them only late as they completed a 201-run victory over Ireland at the Manuka Oval in the ICC Cricket World Cup on Tuesday. The Proteas were ruthless , and not only did they stamp their authority and consolidate their second place in Group B but also tried out a few experiments . To start with , there was no hint of the city 's apparent lethargy affecting South Africa 's approach. Hashim Amla ( 159 , 128 balls , 16 fours , four sixes ) and Faf du Plessis ( 109 , 109 balls , 10 fours , one six ) shared a record 247-run stand for the second wicket while David Miller ( 46 ) and Rilee Rossouw ( 61 ) clocked strike rates over 200 in their frenzied partnership . Defending a majestic total of 411 runs , South Africa fired on all cylinders and reduced Ireland to 48 for 5. Dale Steyn marked his 100th ODI appearance with a fiery spell that fetched him the wickets of Paul Stirling and Ed Joyce and Kyle Abbot claimed three wickets. It was only then that South Africa took their foot off the pedal . Ireland 's Andy Balbirnie returned to the ground that changed his fortunes last year to make his maiden ODI half-century , his 58 ( 71 balls , seven fours ) coming in a battling show of character against a high-quality attack. But that and Kevin O'Brien 's 48 were going to be enough for the Irish to avoid the biggest defeat in World Cup history . Neither du Plessis ' fourth ODI century nor skipper AB de Villiers ' temptation to try and stamp his immense presence - or , for that matter , sensational hitting by Rossouw and Miller - could take the limelight away from Amla 's knock. From the innately watchful to the carefully innovative to the overtly aggressive , the opening batsman unfurled them all . Amla took it upon himself to lift the scoring rate by attacking an out-of-rhythm medium pacer Max Sorenson. A pick up from outside off-stump was sent soaring over long-on and followed up with a carved six over cover and a square cut for four. Du Plessis was inspired to step out and send the final delivery of that Sorensen over to the sight screen . Amla is no de Villiers but just before du Plessis missed a straight yorker from O'Brien , the opener showed that he could wallop the ball hard too when he smote John Mooney into the grassy hill beyond square-leg and followed it up with an inside out carve over extra cover for successive sixes to kick start the batting Powerplay in majestic fashion . It would be unfair to ignore du Plessis ' contribution after he walked in to bat after Quinton de Kock was dismissed early one more time. He played a characteristic hand , not missing on scoring opportunities but it was with their selfless running between the wickets that Amla and du Plessis caught the eye when Ireland bowled a string of reasonably good overs . That the fall of du Plessis , Amla and de Villiers in the span of 18 deliveries did not bring Ireland anything but temporary relief. Rossouw ( 61 not out , 30 balls , six fours , three sixes ) and Miller ( 46 not out , 23 balls , four fours , two sixes ) added 110 runs in 8.3 overs to suggest that if Amla 's catch had taken when he was on 17 , South Africa would still have caned the tame Irish attack . As South Africa take on Pakistan in Auckland , they will be pleased they were able to sustain the momentum achieved by whipping the West Indies. They have not let injuries to pace bowler Vernon Philander and JP Duminy affect their balance. Or , for that matter , de Kock 's string of failures. They have banished memories of the massive loss to India . Ireland will have to similarly ignore Tuesday 's annihilation by South Africa when they play their next game against Zimbabwe in Hobart this weekend. If they really want to take that step towards qualification for the playoffs , they will have to believe that they are not such a bad outfit as the margin of defeat appears to convey . They will have to leave the wounds behind , taking lessons from the game here. Porterfield will have to use new ball bowler Mooney better and the top-order batsmen really need to make their presence felt. But they can draw heart from the spunk that Balbirnie , O'Brien and the tail showed at twilight on Tuesday when somnolence was kicking in to Canberra . Brief scores : South Africa 411/4 ( Amla 159 , du Plessis 109 ; McBrine 2/63 ) beat Ireland 210 all out in 45 overs ( Balbirnie 58 , O'Brien 48 ; Abbott 4/21 ) by 201 runs © Cricbuzz Tags
