Kohli loses cool ahead of West Indies match Perth , Tue , Mar 03 2015 by Tanmoy Mookherjee Last updated on Wednesday , 04 March , 2015 , 03 : 58 AM The journalist Kohli spoke to was not the one he wanted to give a piece of his mind to. © AFP Given his stunning run of form in the Test series against Australia leading up to the World Cup , India 's vice-captain Virat Kohli has done well to keep his emotions in check. However , ahead of his team 's fourth Group B game against West Indies , Kohli 's emotions came to a boil at the scenic Murdoch University ground on Tuesday when he picked on a senior journalist . Once India 's training session ended - which they had conducted on the field before heading towards the nets - the Indian vice-captain confronted a journalist and went on an expletive-filled tirade in full public view. With camerapersons in attendance , it made for unpleasant viewing . Curiously , the journalist Kohli spoke to was not the one he wanted to give a piece of his mind to. The mistaken identity came to his notice and he apologised through another scribe at the venue. It is learnt that Kohli carries a grouse against one journalist since India 's tour of England last year where he had a poor series , aggregating 134 runs in 10 innings . Senior members of the support staff are believed to have attempted to calm Kohli down , reminding him of his stature as India 's Test captain and the team 's vice-captain in a tournament like the World Cup , which the team is defending after winning it in 2011 . Kohli 's aggressive demeanour on the field has often been criticised as it has resulted in lapses of concentration. Against Australia during the Test series , Kohli channelled his aggression and scored four centuries but was repeatedly seen having on-field jousts with rival bowlers , especially Mitchell Johnson . Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's absence from the first Test at Adelaide meant that Kohli was handed over the reins of the Test team for the first time , but he had led the team admirably , steering clear of inviting a call from the match referee 's room , and later himself admitted having to hold himself back from letting off steam on several occasions . The reason behind Kohli 's resentment , however , was over a report which dates back to the tour of England where he was accompanied by his celebrity friend in Nottingham. Kohli was flayed by the media subsequently owing to his poor form throughout the tour and he appears to have kept it bottled up all this time . However , BCCI media manager Dr Baba reiterated that there was a misunderstanding and no abusive language was used. Virat has spoken to the concerned gentlemen immediately and the matter has ended . This incident would do him more harm than good. India are sitting pretty at the top of the Group B points table after three games , and with the knockout stages approaching , they would be hoping their premier batsman can put the incident behind ahead of a crucial match and focus on the greater task on hand . Kohli 's " discussion " with a journalist comes on the back of the Indian team 's decision - ostensibly at the behest of the media manager - not to even exchange pleasantries with the Indian media contingent on tour here . © Cricbuzz
