Amla will always be the rock for us : de Villiers after big win Tue , Mar 03 2015 Last updated on Wednesday , 04 March , 2015 , 12 : 16 PM De Villiers spoke of Amla in glowing terms. © AFP South Africa captain AB de Villiers was effusive in his praise of opener Hashim Amla following the team 's 201-run win against Ireland at Manuka Oval in Canberra on Tuesday . Amla ( 159 ) and Faf du Plessis ( 109 ) shared a record 247-run stand for the second wicket to help the Proteas reach 411 for 4 , in the chase of which the Irish were bowled out for 210 in 45 overs thanks to Kyle Abbott 's 4 for 21. In the post-match presentation , de Villiers spoke of Amla in glowing terms . " Incredible. Hash [ Amla ] . He will always be the rock for us. Effortlessly plays with a lot of class. Whatever you do he always has the answer , " de Villiers said . " Very happy with the performance. The nice thing was we did it our way. We are not following any other strategy , we are doing it our way. We want to keep on scoring centuries. It helps set us up for the last few overs. " The South Africa captain , who bowled two overs and accounted for John Mooney , hailed his bowlers too. " Very impressed with the bowlers. They were very motivated. Combination will depend on a match-by-match basis. You always want your top six , top seven in form. Six , seven , eight win you a lot of games. We will see how we go [ on the bowling ] , " he said . Amla , who scored his 20th ODI ton and picked up the Man-of-the-Match award , was happy that his partnership with du Plessis after the early loss of Quinton de Kock was able to set up Rilee Rossouw ( 61 * off 30 balls ) and David Miller ( 46 * off 23 balls ) in the death overs . " Myself and Faf got going , and then I started to play some shots. We had wickets in hand so we could have a go. Thankfully it came off. It was a good wicket and fortunately we got some runs. Always good to post a win. Any hundred is a hundred. Glad to get some runs. Does n't matter how long it takes , " Amla said . Ireland captain William Porterfield was gracious in defeat and praised Andy Balbarnie and Kevin O'Brien 's efforts that helped the team lessen the margin of defeat after being reduced to 48 for 5. " They played well. We had an early breakthrough , we wanted more , but once the lads got in they were difficult to get out. You have got to take your chances. It was a very good pitch. The lads tried to squeeze as much as possible. Four down coming out to 10 overs , they bowled very well. All credit to the lower order , " Porterfield said . © Cricbuzz Tags
