Have to bring out 'A ' game against India : Sammy Tue , Mar 03 2015 Last updated on Tuesday , 03 March , 2015 , 03 : 18 PM Out of the four games played , West Indies have lost to Ireland , failing to defend a total of 304 , and then to South Africa after conceding 408. © AFP West Indies allrounder Darren Sammy said that his team needs to bring out their best game against India when the two teams face off in Perth for their Pool B ICC Cricket World Cup fixture in Perth on Friday . " It 's another cricket match but India is playing well at the moment. You give each and every opponent the respect that they deserve. We have always had good matches against India and we have to bring out our 'A ' game to beat India , " Sammy told the media-persons during the West Indies practice session at the Murdoch University Sports Oval on Tuesday . Out of the four games played , West Indies lost to Ireland , failing to defend a total of 304 , and then to South Africa after conceding 408. Sammy admitted that there has been lack of consistency as far as West Indies ' bowling is concerned , " I think it 's about being inconsistent. We have n't created enough pressure on the opponents when we bowl , " stated Sammy . " In the games when we get it right , we compete with best in the world. We have to maintain proper line and length and bowl the yorkers at the death. We have to come up with a plan to minimize the damage that can be done at the back-end of the innings , " the former captain added . Sammy stressed on the need for the players to rally around young captain Jason Holder in trying situations. " It 's been tough coming into the World Cup after the South Africa tour. Jason has shown that he is a strong character and strong characters always come back stronger , " he said. " It 's our duty to support him and help him through the tough time as cricket is a team sport. Every member should come together to perform for the team . " We all must support him ( Holder ) . He did n't put himself in that situation ( being made the captain ) . I have also been in his situation before. It 's the World Cup and we have to support young Jason. " WACA strip is one of the bounciest in the world and Sammy expects the bowling unit to make full use of the conditions but also use a bit of brains. " Any fast bowler would be excited to bowl at the WACA as it is one of the quickest wickets in the world. Having said that , our quick bowlers should n't think that they would just come and blast the batsmen out. They have to put the ball in right areas and hope to get the results. That 's what we are planning to do , " Sammy said . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
