Match report : Pakistan stay alive with UAE defeat Napier , Wed , Mar 04 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Wednesday , 04 March , 2015 , 08 : 36 AM Pakistan won their second consecutive match in the World Cup to keep their quarter-final hopes alive . Shaiman Anwar 's fifty made him the leading run-scorer in the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup . Pakistan were boosted by fifties from Ahmed Shehzad , Haris Sohail and Misbah-ul-Haq as Pakistan defeated UAE by 129 runs. © Agencies It took some doing , but Pakistan won their second game in a row to remain in contention for the quarter-finals of the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup. Helped in their attempt to boost a low net run-rate by UAE 's decision to field first on a good McLean Park deck , Pakistan overcame another failed opening act by using some sloppy catching to make 339 for 6 , their second-highest total in World Cups. The UAE were always under the pump after that , but recovered from three early losses through an 83-run stand between Shaiman Anwar ( 62 ) and Khurram Khan ( 43 ) and then Amjad Javed had some fun in hitting a quick 40 out of a seventh-wicket stand of 68. Pakistan were kept in the field for 50 overs as UAE got to 210 for 8 . Victory was set up with the bat , when Ahmed Shehzad and Haris Sohail added 160 - the fourth-highest partnership for Pakistan in World Cups - from 10 for 1 to set the platform for a shifting of gears at the death. Misbah-ul-Haq 's breezy 49-ball 65 and a frenetic 45 from Sohaib Maqsood helped Pakistan take 143 of the last 12 overs . Predictably , Pakistan lost an early wicket. Predictably , it was Nasir Jamshed. Predictably , it was to a nothing shot. The struggling opener was given another chance after two single-digit innings and made 4 , this time limply pulling Manjula Guruge to mid-on in the fourth over. Misbah has repeatedly spoken of the need to back under-performing players , but it looks like Jamshed has used up his goodwill . Shehzad , following scores of 47 , 1 and 0 in the tournament , was given two early reprieves and used them to produce his first half-century in three innings dating back to this very ground on February 3. His first authoritative shot was a pull over mid-on off Guruge in the second over , but before he found the boundary a second time , he was dropped twice. On 8 , drove in the air to mid-off where Khurram Khan got his left hand to the ball but could n't grasp the offer. On 11 , Shehzad square-drove to point where Andri Berenger spilled the catch. Throw in a few misfields and wides , and the momentum slowly moved Pakistans way . Shehzad grew in confidence with his foot work , advancing to Amjad Javed and connected for the game 's first six off the last ball of the 16th over. On 42 , Shehzad missed a sweep and was hit in line with middle and leg stump , but umpire S Ravi turned it down. Replays concluded there was no inside edge . Sohail was fluent on the cut shot as well as when nudging deliveries off his pads , and with Shehzad had UAE hustling in the field. Sohail did n't find the boundary for 47 deliveries but his running between the wickets and dabs into the spaces ensured runs came at a decent rate. The batting Powerplay consumed both batsmen , Sohail heaving Naveed to mid-on for 70 from 83 balls and Shehzad run out on 93 by a frame . At 176 for 3 in 34.1 overs , the stage was set for a late assault and Misbah , Maqsood and Afridi delivered. After 21 balls without a boundary , Misbah swung three sixes in the space of three balls to take a cue from Maqsood , who clattered three boundaries off Javed in one over , all past fine leg. Maqsood 's clean hitting drove a stand of 75 in 53 balls before he slashed Guruge to backward point where Rohan Mustafa juggled the catch. Guruge found himself on a hat-trick after Umar Akmal and Misbah fell in the penultimate over , but Afridi - who crossed 8000 ODI runs with a six over point - crashed 21 from seven balls to take Pakistan to 339 . In the face of that massive target , UAE appeared to have taken a safety-first approach but when they lost three wickets in 16 balls that changed to a repair job. Left-armer Rahat Ali had Amjad Ali bowled for 14 when shaping to leave and Sohail Khan only had to pitch it up to get Berenger and Krishna Chandran Karate edging behind . Khurram , the former UAE captain , and Anwar kept Pakistan at bay for 19.2 overs in a partnership of 83 , built around quick singles and smart batting , apart from a few thumped boundaries when Sohail and Wahab Riaz dropped it short. The shot of the innings came in the 14th over , when Anwar uppercut Sohail for six over point . That stubborn stand ended when Khurram ( 43 ) flicked Maqsood to square leg. A change of ends worked for Afridi , who removed Anwar and Mustafa in the 39th over. With this busy fifty , Anwar became the leading run-getter in the tournament. Swapnil Patil ( 36 ) and Javed gave the fans reasons to cheer , the latter swinging freely in his 33-ball innings that contained five fours and two sixes . Brief scores : Pakistan 339 for 6 in 50 overs ( Ahmed Shehzad 93 , Haris Sohail 70 , Misbah-ul-Haq 65 , Sohaib Maqsood 45 , Manjula Guruge 4/56 ) beat UAE 210 for 8 in 50 overs ( Shaiman Anwar 62 , Shahid Afridi 2/35 ) by 129 runs . © Cricbuzz Tags
