Pitch vision : The legend of the WACA Perth , Wed , Mar 04 2015 by Tanmoy Mookherjee Last updated on Wednesday , 04 March , 2015 , 09 : 43 AM During the winter months , a layer of clay covers up the centre at WACA © Getty The Eden Gardens has Mohammad Azharuddin , VVS Laxman , and more recently , Rohit Sharma. Every cricketing venue is dotted by its own history with players making it their own. The SSC has Mahela Jayawardene. The WACA ground in Perth , however , leans more towards the fast bowler. It has Dennis Lillee , Curtly Ambrose , Glenn McGrath and Mitchell Johnson. Ishant Sharma would look back at his career and have fond memories of the WACA . A cursory look at the WACA square would n't separate it from any other Test venue in Australia. They all look the same to us. But how does it continue being such a fast track ? Where does that extra bounce come from , that got Ravichandran Ashwin four wickets last Sunday ? A walk on the ground makes you wonder even more. The outfield is so soft in contrast that it makes the wicket seem like it is made out of cement. Matthew Page , the WACA 's curator , is two years into his job here and after gathering experience of wickets in South Australia , he understands the importance of keeping it as close to it was back in its heyday , in the days of Lillee and Thomson . " The content of the pitch remains the same with a combination of soil , clay and grass , but it is the combination of these three things that gives it the character , " Page says. In fact , the soil is n't even grown here , and is brought down from Waroona , in the Peel region of Western Australia beside a river. The centre of the WACA holds ten pitches , all different from each other . You are n't walking out to bat but you still feel the butterflies. You begin imagining Johnson charging in with the intention to hurt you. Ask what the most satisfying thing for Page is , and he says when the wicketkeeper takes the ball head-high with the fingers pointed up makes his day. Any bowler would agree to that . During the winter months , a layer of clay covers up the centre and they let it remain throughout the season as it recovers from all the cricket played on it , and the moisture revitalizes it for the time ahead. As Page said , a pitch is good enough for 20-odd years , then why would they think about drop-in pitches . While it has lost a lot of its old fame to the Gabba in Brisbane , the WACA has kept up its reputation as a more traditional cricketing venue in the days of collosseum-sized stadiums. The WACA 's quaintness , however , is in danger of losing out to a new venue proposed by the authorities , which will be complete by the year 2018 . The New Perth Stadium , as it is called right now , will follow the trend of multi-purpose stadiums build all around the country , holding various sports and musical concerts , and is likely to be the new cricketing destination in the city . According to chief executive Christina Mathews , the WACA is not going down without a fight. The ground that has always been a cricketing venue alone will finally open its doors for other sports to be played to bring more people in and advance their case in support of the storied ground. And international cricket may get a new destination in the city , but " cricket should continue in some way , shape or form , " Mathews says . With just three games falling in their share for the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup - only one of them featuring the home team - the venue may be on its last legs in international cricket , and possibly be replaced by a stadium holding many more and holding games on a drop-in wicket. But it wo n't stir up the emotions like the WACA. The ball thudding into the wicketkeeper 's gloves will echo and die out in front of empty stands . © Cricbuzz
