Pakistan not pretty but a win 's a win Napier , Wed , Mar 04 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Wednesday , 04 March , 2015 , 11 : 03 AM Victory over UAE allowed Pakistan to keep pace in the quarter-finals race. © AFP It was n't always pretty , but Misbah-ul-Haq 's under-fire Pakistan got the job done . With their 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup quarter-final hopes on the line after two losses in three games , Pakistan took one step forward with a 129-run win over UAE at McLean Park on Wednesday . For Pakistan , the win allowed them to keep pace in the quarter-finals race , and , according to their coach Waqar Younis , it gave the team plenty of confidence in what could end up a mad scramble in Pool B . " I 'll take it at the moment , " said Waqar after the match , fully aware that there are two games for Pakistan to win. " Of course , I am relieved. There is no doubt about that but yet the tournament is still very open. We came to do well against the South Africans. Of course , this victory will definitely give us a boost , at least , a positive thinking toward the next two games. To win always makes you feel comfortable and makes you feel confident. But I still feel that we need to win against a bigger opponent to really tell the world that we 're around. Two victories , fair enough. The run-rate is better. We are sneaking in , so we 're just looking to play a better cricket , but , yeah , we need to beat a bigger opponent. " Waqar was quick to point out that gathering momentum was something of a trend in the last few weeks. " If you 're looking at different teams , I think teams have picked up. You can clearly see India picking up very late , " he said. " Teams like South Africa lost badly , started picking up , so that 's what we 're hoping , and hoping that all these boys who got runs today carry on with it. I think the crucial game will be South Africa. Just not only to qualify , but also just for a morale booster we 'd need to beat a top team to sort of get our confidence back. " As was the case in losses to India and West Indies and then a narrow victory over Zimbabwe , the cricket was not very captivating. This win owed plenty to UAE 's graciousness in allowing Pakistan to bat - they needed to put up a big total to boost their net run-rate - and a series of dropped chances. After Khurram Khan held the simplest of chances at mid-on to send back the hopelessly out-of-form Nasir Jamshed , he and Andri Berrenger reprieved Ahmed Shehzad on 8 and 11. The number of misfields and later loose deliveries in the final ten overs added to Pakistan 's ascendency to their second-highest World Cup total ever . Pakistan 's net run-rate coming into this match was -1.373 , but that has now improved somewhat to -0.385. Not great , but the movement is certainly in the right direction. Bowling out UAE for cheaper would have helped , and when they were 25 for 3 and then 140 for 6 that seemed a possibility , but Pakistan 's pace attack slumped a bit in the final ten overs. The fast bowler Amjad Javed hit 42 off 33 balls , spoiling Sohail Khan 's figures by swatting him for four fours and a couple of sixes in his last 12 balls as UAE made 65 from their last ten overs. The intensity associated with hungry , determined and desperate teams was lacking towards the end . There was enough for Waqar to feel pleased with , but he knew that against South Africa - who made 400 against West Indies - the bowling can not be so complacent. " Look , there are two teams playing out there , and one does well and one not so well , " he said. " Some of their batsmen did well , hit some good shots. Yes , we know we should have bowled them out for under 200 to boost out net run-rate , but it did n't happen. A bit disappointed about that , but as I said we got a win and now need to focus on South Africa , especially , and Ireland. " To expect this Pakistan team to come out and hammer opposition sides would be grossly misplaced. They are without Saeed Ajmal , Umar Gul , Junaid Khan and Mohammad Hafeez. Younis Khan has looked a walking wicket. Jamshed has looked a walking zombie. Shehzad has been a pale imitation of his stroke-playing self ( today he had three lives during a very scratchy 93 ) . Umar Akmal has blown hot and cold , as all Akmals do. Misbah has looked a beaten man for the most , both when at the crease and addressing the media. He has had to answer about as many questions on why Sarfraz Ahmed is n't playing as he has faced deliveries in the tournament . Rahat Ali , 26 , had played a solitary ODI before he made his tournament debut in Brisbane a few nights ago. Sohail , 30 , had played the last of five ODIs in September 2011 before he was added to the World Cup squad. Shahid Afridi 's assortment of legbreaks and cutters and such had diminished to the extent that before today he looked like Harrison Ford in The Expendables 3 , mumbling and grimacing his way through a plotless ride. Sohaib Maqsood and Haris Sohail , under so much Pakistani media pressure to contribute as batsmen , can not be looked at to get the ball to turn and break partnerships regularly . Throw in a series of alleged in-team rifts and near bust-ups , and you get another painted picture of a Pakistan collective on the verge of cracking. In a sense , it is the Pakistani way. Fight under immense scrutiny , the sceptics be damned. Lug yourselves from venue to venue , at times giving the impression that mounting a collective challenge is beyond reach. Passionate fans of this team can not be light sleepers or faint-hearted , such is the way their love and support are questioned so frequently . On paper , Pakistan have won two in a row. Never mind that the teams are Zimbabwe and UAE. They have moved up to fourth spot on the Pool B table , level with West Indies - who hammered them in Christchurch - and two points shy of South Africa and India. There is hope , for sure . A win 's a win 's a win , goes the saying. Pakistan will take it . © Cricbuzz Tags
