Tauqir pleased with UAE 's learning curve Napier , Wed , Mar 04 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Wednesday , 04 March , 2015 , 11 : 41 AM Tauqir underlined that ticking the W column was ultimately what counted. © Getty It can not be easy to be a captain of an Associate nation , your team already under much scrutiny at a World Cup and particularly considering the ICC 's plans to reduce the number of teams to ten for the 2019 tournament. Most questions to Associates in the lead-up to and since the commencement of the World Cup have centred on the importance of delivering results , keeping face and damage control. To do so while looking pleasant and not sound foolhardy while trying to convince viewers of your team 's abilities must test the most stoic of men . Mohammad Tauqir , the 43-year-old captain of UAE , is under no illusions about the limitations his team has in their third ICC Cricket World Cup. He admitted that fielding against Pakistan on a good McLean Park batting surface had backfired , and that several dropped catches had made life much tougher for UAE who lost by 129 runs. Their fourth loss in a row . " I think we thought probably the wicket had a little bit of moisture and it was overcast conditions , so we wanted to get them all out earlier and then chase the runs , " he told reporters after defeat on Wednesday. " I think the fielding was below mark today. We dropped a few catches. I think if we had taken those catches the total would have been different. 340 was a very good total , but it was an overall decent effort from our side. We did n't want to get out in 30 overs and make a mockery of ourselves , but the plan was to keep wickets in hand and build an innings , build a partnership. At the end of the innings in the last 10 , 15 overs we needed to attack or go for big hitting. So , unfortunately , again , there were a few early wickets and we had to slow down and build a partnership. " It is not like UAE have been pushovers. Against Zimbabwe , they made 285 of 7 and lost by four wickets with 12 balls remaining. Against Ireland , they made 278 for 9 and lost by two wickets with four balls remaining. A bad day against India in Perth followed , when they were rolled over for 102 in 31.3 overs and lost by nine wickets with 187 balls remaining. For Tauqir , the learning curve was still significant . " We had a couple of close games against Zimbabwe and Ireland. I think even today 's game , playing 50 overs against Pakistan is a big positive for the team , " he said. " Our effort is to do well against the Test nations and put up a decent performance against them. In batting , we need to do the best and play all 50 overs and in bowling also , we need to restrict them. I think we should not concede 400-plus kind of runs. I mean , that 's an achievement or that 's the learning we want to do. " The brightest spark for UAE this tournament , and again in this match , was the batting of Shaiman Anwar who , with his third fifty-plus score in four games , has become the World Cup 's top scorer. Anwar 's 88-ball 62 left Tauqir with a smile on his face . " I think he 's a brilliant batsman , " he said. " He 's a very , very confident individual. I 'm very , very happy for him. He 's doing very well for himself and the team. He 's such a confident individual that we call him Sir Viv in the dressing room. I think he missed a hundred today. If we would have stayed to the end , he would have scored 90 to 100 runs , but an excellent performance. " As Tauqir addressed the media , David Warner crossed 150 in quick time against Afghanistan in Perth to lift images of a world-record score and another 400-plus total. Next up for UAE are South Africa in Wellington on March 12 , and Tauqir was able to make light of the challenge that lies in waiting . " It seems against South Africa the only way , they can not score 400 runs is if we win the toss and bat , " he chuckled , cuing laughter in the room. " The way they are going , they 're scoring 400 runs against West Indies and yesterday as well. No , I think we need to bowl well. We need to bowl well , we need to field well to restrict them. Now even considering 400 is not an embarrassing total , you know. So , yeah , we will be putting in a lot of effort and good performance against South Africa as well. " Scotland 's captain Preston Mommsen and Mohammad Nabi , the Afghanistan skipper , have spoken recently of how qualifying for the World Cup is proof that these two teams can compete with Full Member sides , but Tauqir underlined that ticking the W column was ultimately what counted . " I would not agree that if you have qualified that you belong here. I think you need to put up a decent performance as well , " he said. " I think our performance against India team was not up top the mark , but we discussed that against all the rest of the Test nations we need to put up a good performance. I know we lost the match today , but it was a decent effort overall. " © Cricbuzz Tags
