Afghanistan no match for ruthless Australia Perth , Wed , Mar 04 2015 by Tanmoy Mookherjee Last updated on Wednesday , 04 March , 2015 , 01 : 32 PM Australia thumped Afghanistan by 275 runs. © AFP Afghanistan were n't the ones to be blamed for Australia 's loss away to New Zealand , but they were at the receiving end of a brutal assault from David Warner , Steven Smith and Glenn Maxwell , who combined to take them to a monstrous 417 for 6 at the WACA ground on Wednesday. Australia 's seam bowlers then took over , sharing eight wickets between them as victory was achieved by a mammoth 275-run margin - the second biggest in ODI history - as they shook off the defeat to New Zealand with a clinical performance . Plenty of records were set but Australia would have been happier about an improved batting display without captain Michael Clarke , who chose to promote other batsmen in his place. He , however , changed his bowlers around with usual finesse , and took a couple of catches and a rare wicket to cap off a modest outing for himself . A chase of 418 was beyond Afghanistan before it even began , but that they stretched their innings to the 38th over spoke of their tenacity to not give up. Australia ' s only game at the venue brought out a decent number of spectators , and despite Afghanistan 's defeat , a smattering of their supporters continued to cheer their team which was behind in the game the moment captain Mohammad Nabi had decided to bowl first . An opening partnership of 30 bettered Australia 's effort of 14. However , wickets began to tumble thereafter. Former captain Nawroz Mangal played an entertaining hand of 33 before falling prey to the uncomfortably quick Mitchell Johnson. Playing at his home ground , Johnson finished with figures of 4 for 22 , while left-arm compatriot Mitchell Starc ( 2 for 18 ) swung the ball at high speed and returned with a barrage of yorkers towards the end to deal the finishing blows and Afghanistan 's innings ended on 142 . Despite losing half their side even before reaching 100 , Afghanistan 's lower-order batsmen did n't get bogged down , as was exemplified by Mangal , who took 19 runs from a Mitchell Marsh over that had two consecutive sixes. Najibullah Zadran tried the same tactic with less success towards the end , picking on part-timer Glenn Maxwell before falling to a Starc yorker . Despite an encouraging start from the Afghanistan pace trio , Australia surged to the tournament 's highest total with David Warner scoring his fourth ODI hundred and narrowly missing out on a double even though there were plenty of overs left. Warner and Smith added 260 for the second wicket , Australia 's best partnership in ODIs , after Aaron Finch was removed early , but the feature of their partnership was the frenetic pace at which the runs came . After a modest start , Warner picked up the intensity of his innings and raced away to 50 off 40 , 100 off 92 and 150 off 116 before finally falling to Shapoor Zadran for 178 from 133 balls. Initial exchanges saw Shapoor beat Warner 's bat which he followed with cold stares , and before he was out in the 38th over , the Australian opener had taken the bowler with the long hair and longer run-up for four sixes in two overs . While Warner and Smith picked gaps with ease and the former benefited from a reprieve on 114 , runs continued to come thick and fast , with 109 coming between overs 31 and 41. The last ten overs went for 118 as Maxwell clubbed 88 from just 39 balls , and one of his seven sixes also featured a reverse-swept effort off Shapoor. Smith missed a century when he was out for 95 , but would have been happier for being among the runs after twin failures against England and New Zealand . The Zadrans - Shapoor and Dawlat - returned to bag a couple of wickets each but both bowlers combined to give away 190 runs from their 20 overs. The WACA 's pace only allowed the Australian batsmen to score quicker , and Afghanistan missed the middle-overs expertise of Mirwais Ashraf , who had earlier returned home after suffering an injury . Brief scores : Australia 417/6 ( Warner 178 , Smith 95 , Maxwell 88 ; Shapoor Zadran 2/89 ) beat Afghanistan 142 in 37.3 overs ( Nawroz Mangal 33 ; Johnson 4/22 , Mitchell Starc 2/18 ) by 275 runs . © Cricbuzz Tags
