Sri Lanka will be tough to beat : Clarke Perth , Wed , Mar 04 2015 by Tanmoy Mookherjee Last updated on Wednesday , 04 March , 2015 , 04 : 21 PM Sri Lanka 's massive experience is a matter of concern for Clarke. © AFP Australia captain Michael Clarke was pleased as his team put behind the defeat to New Zealand with a resounding 275-run victory over Afghanistan on Wednesday. Australia scored 417 for 6 batting first - the highest total ever achieved in World Cups - before Afghanistan were rolled over for 142 . " I think it 's nice to turn our form around after New Zealand , especially with the bat , I thought the boys played really well to make 400 , our highest World Cup score ever , " Clarke said after the match at the WACA ground. " I think there 's obviously some outstanding individual performances , David Warner obviously led the way with that and Steven Smith played around Davey and Glenn Maxwell. I think that side of our game [ bowling and fielding ] seems pretty consistent and we have to continue to bowl and field the way we are. Like I say , it 's a real positive to be able to turn things around with the bat so quickly. " Clarke , however , admitted that playing against Sri Lanka in their next fixture would be a different challenge altogether. Despite a heavy defeat in their opening fixture to New Zealand , Sri Lanka have come back strongly in the tournament and beat England with ease in their previous game . " I think they 're going to be a really tough team to beat , " he said. " They like the Sydney Cricket Ground and they 're playing some really good cricket. They 've got experience , and I think that 's always an important part of a good team in major tournaments. I think if you 've got some players that have been involved in World Cups before , I think that gives you a good advantage , and I think Sri Lanka have certainly got a few of those players and they 're in really good form. We love playing at the SCG , and yeah , it 's going to be a tough game. " Clarke did n't have a hit in the middle after he decided to send his colleagues up the order towards the end of the innings , but said " it was in the best interests of the team " . While pleased with his bowler 's efforts who wrapped up things quickly , Clarke said it was important to have " flexibility " in changing them around . " I think all the quicks we 've got in the squad are fantastic , " he said. " My job is to try and work out what the best combinations are against the team we 're playing in the conditions we 're playing to have success. An example of that is [ Josh ] Hazlewood and [ Mitchell ] Starc opening the bowling today but against New Zealand , [ Mitchell ] Johnson opening the bowling with Starc. I guess the luxury I have is they 're all open to doing whatever is best for the team. I love that about this side. I feel with both bat and ball that guys are willing to go up and bat at four , five , six , whatever it is , bowl first change , not bowl at all. I think that 's a real important luxury to have , and I 'm very lucky I 've got that with this team. " © Cricbuzz Tags
