Shane Watson faces uncertain ODI future Perth , Thu , Mar 05 2015 Last updated on Thursday , 05 March , 2015 , 04 : 48 AM Shane Watson was dropped for the Afghanistan game following a string of poor scores He faces stiff competition from the likes of Mitchell Marsh and James Faulkner Shane Watson faces an uncertain ODI future © Getty Australia captain Michael Clarke says Shane Watson coped well with his axing from Wednesday 's World Cup clash against Afghanistan , a decision which may have signalled the end of his one-day career. Watson was dropped from the playing eleven following a string of sub par performances in favour of the returning James Faulkner . The powerful right-hander 's dual ability with bat and ball has made him an integral part of the Australian limited overs team for many years and he averages over 50 with the bat in World Cup cricket. But Watson , who turns 34 in June , was an onlooker as Australia won by a World Cup record 275 runs , and suffered the ignominy of seeing his name wiped from the record books when his 252-run partnership with Ricky Ponting in an ODI for Australia was passed by David Warner and Steve Smith. Watson 's individual Australian record of 185 not out also looked set to fall , until Warner holed out for 178 . Australian chairman of selectors , Rod Marsh , earlier in the day said it was a " big decision " , but that Watson paid the price for his indifferent form with the bat in limited overs cricket in recent months. A three-time Australian one-day international player of the year , Watson faces a battle to get back into the team , with Faulkner and emerging youngster Mitchell Marsh offering similar all-round abilities . In his post-game presser , captain Michael Clarke said Watson had not shown any disappointment during the match even though Faulkner made just seven and Marsh eight in the closing stages of the innings. " I thought Watto ( Watson ) handled it really well , " he said. " It 's obviously a tough decision for the selectors. He was fantastic around the group all day. " Watson , who has played 182 ODIs and 56 Tests in his career , was Australia 's best-paid cricketer in the period between 2012-14. According to Forbes magazine , Watson earned almost $ 6 million in that period , making him the sixth richest player in the world and the highest earner outside of India. Clarke however said he would n't be drawn into a discussion on Watson 's future , saying that was in the hands of the selectors . Meanwhile , Rod Marsh said the decision was takenkeepingWatson 's recent form in mind. " It 's a big decision but it 's one we thought we had to make because in Shane 's last 10 one-day games he 's got 220 runs at an average of 22. Unfortunately he 's been getting starts but he has n't been going on with it and we had to fit James in and someone had to go. " For his part , Watson opted to remain pragmatic about the whole situation. " I believe in myself and my own abilities. If an opportunity comes along , I 'll be ready to go , " he said. " I know I have n't scored enough runs , so I 've only got myself to blame. That 's the way it goes. " Following their victory against Afghanistan , Australia next take on Sri Lanka at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Sunday. The winner of that fixture will potentially take the second spot , behind New Zealand , in Pool A . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
