Bangladesh World Cupper Rubel Hossain in Jail on Rape Charges Bangladesh World Cupper Rubel Hossain in Jail on Rape Charges Bangladesh cricketer Rubel Hossain , who is part of the team 's World Cup squad , had his bail plea rejected and sent to jail on Thursday. Naznin Akter Happy , a 19-year-old actress lodged a complaint of rape and false promise of marriage against the cricketer last month . Last updated on Thursday , 08 January , 2015 15 : 49 IST Total Shares File pic : Rubel Hossain ( left ) . Bangladesh cricketer Rubel Hossain , who has been named in the country 's World Cup squad , was behind bars Thursday after being remanded in custody over allegations that he raped an actress . A magistrate in the capital Dhaka delivered the order after 19-year-old Naznin Akter Happy lodged a complaint of " rape " and a " false promise of marriage " against the cricketer last month . The court 's decision puts a huge question mark over the 24-year-old 's appearance in the next month 's World Cup in Australia and New Zealand after selectors picked him in the 15-man squad last weekend . " The metropolitan magistrate court rejected his bail plea... He was sent to prison pending the next hearing of the case , " deputy commissioner of Dhaka police Anisur Rahman told AFP . No date has been set for the next hearing . Police last month launched a probe after Happy lodged a complaint with police that the fast bowler had backed away from an earlier pledge to marry her after having a months-long " intimate affair " . After hearing the complaint , a court ordered medical tests on Happy and Hossain to undergo DNA tests . The scandal has gripped the conservative Muslim-majority country for weeks , with Happy telling reporters that she would be prepared to withdraw the case if Rubel agrees to marry her . Although victims of alleged rapes are usually entitled to anonymity , Happy 's decision to go public prompted police to waive the usual restrictions . Under Bangladeshi law , anyone who makes what is considered a " false " marriage proposal is liable to criminal prosecution . The fast bowler has rejected the accusations of rape or making a marriage proposal , saying Happy was trying to " blackmail " him. He also ruled out marrying the actress . Happy became a household name for her debut movie " Kichu Asha Bhalobasa " ( Some Hopes , Some Loves ) which hit the cinemas in September 2013 . After filing the complaint , Happy told private Channel-71 that they " had a relationship like any other couple " but that " recently , he was finding excuses not to marry me " . " It 's an act of cheating and I want him to be punished , " she said without elaborating on the rape allegation . Rubel has played 22 Tests for Bangladesh and taken 32 wickets. He has also taken 69 wickets in 53 one-day international matches including a hat-trick against New Zealand . Story first published on : Thursday , 08 January 2015 14 : 37 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
