Ashwin thinks of ODI limitations as challenges Perth , Thu , Mar 05 2015 by Tanmoy Mookherjee Last updated on Thursday , 05 March , 2015 , 07 : 44 AM Ashwin has been a revelation in India 's opening games of the World Cup © Getty R Ashwin , the India offspinner , feels the current rules in ODI cricket have made bowlers like himself " feel very little " as the game continues to sway in favour of the batsmen. Ashwin has flourished in the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup so far , taking nine wickets in the competition with a miserly economy rate , but thinks it is the Indian fast bowlers up front who have allowed him to bowl a certain way by taking early wickets . " I think it 's huge in the sense if you get a couple of wickets up front , then the entire game turns on its head , " Ashwin said ahead of India 's fourth group game against the West Indies at the WACA ground. " As far as the spinner is concerned , when I come in , I 've got that little bit more freedom. Having said that , I just made up my mind that I 'm going to bowl this way the entire tournament. Come what may , I 'll try to execute it , and that is one of the reasons that I 've come out to express myself in any of these major tournaments. I like the big stage , and I like to assume I do it my own way. " The new ODI rules indicate that even outside the powerplays , only four fielders are allowed on the boundary , which has allowed teams to put up 300-plus totals consistently in this tournament , but Ashwin has been a revelation in the tournament so far . " There are lots of limitations that are offered to you as a bowler , but those are the challenges , " Ashwin said. " You 're faced with more challenges than batters in the modern era when it comes to coloured clothing and white ball. But there is no point in complaining. It 's not who I am , and I continue to take up the challenges and enjoy it. " In view of India 's upcoming game , Ashwin has enjoyed success while bowling to a destructive batsman like Chris Gayle , and he thinks it is down to how one takes up the challenge and bowls with respect to the new rules in place . " Not just Chris Gayle , it 's any other batsman in world cricket , " he said. " Anybody who attacks wants to put you off your hook. I 'm content to look at the wicket and go strongly for wickets off any batsman I think is dangerous , because I like it. I like to throw myself in the middle and try to see how much I can make an impact in that particular game. Be it Chris Gayle , AB de Villiers , anybody . " It 's pretty simple. You 've got to restrict to hitting to one side of the ground because you have three fielders [ in batting Powerplays ] and maximize those particular three fielders and try to see how much you can restrict the hitting to that side. It 's pretty much about boundaries and wickets , and you can restrict the hitting to one side and see if you can get a wicket or two. " As India 's Man of the Match from the last game against UAE , Ashwin will have his work cut out when countering an explosive West Indies batting line-up , but he will be ready for a scrap . © Cricbuzz Tags
