Tour Diary : Art Deco groove and Sinclair 's new innings Napier , Thu , Mar 05 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Wednesday , 11 March , 2015 , 08 : 41 AM Coast to coast After a five-and-half-hour drive from Wellington - stopping briefly in Palmerston North , which the English comedian John Cleese infamously termed the place to go for people lacking the guts to take their own life - I reach the seaside city of Napier. With little leg or elbow room , and running on little sleep after a long day before , I am stiff and sore but as the esplanade of Marine Parade , a beautiful stretch of waterfront lined with stately Norfolk pines , comes into view from the bus and continues to stretch for as long as the eye can see , with mountains in the horizon and sea gulls gliding overhead , I am suddenly invigorated. What is it about the sight of the ocean under a blue sky that perks one up ? As a friend and fellow journalist once noted , they should rename this country New Zeal Land . © Cricbuzz Art Deco dekho Napier bills itself as the Art Deco capital of the world because of its many 1930s buildings designed in Spanish Mission , Stripped Classical and Art Deco style. Sitting along a fine coastal plateau at the southern end of the sweeping Hawkes Bay ( a flourishing wine region ) , Napier has numerous examples of the style around the centre. The city was completely razed by an earthquake and ensuing fires in 1931 , which killed 258 people , and much of it was rebuilt in the popular style of the day. Even for an utter art ignorant like myself , there is a charm to it . Downtown Napier has a bit of an old-world English seaside town feel , as well as parts that resemble Miami and Orlando , but there are times I feel like I 'm in an episode of The Twilight Zone or a Stephen King novel. During the day there are a lot of elderly people visible , as well as old vintage cars , but come 5pm and Napier shuts down. After sunset , you can literally walk in the middle of the street and not get run over by a vehicle. There is life spotted at an Irish bar where the only thing Irish is the name and the green wallpaper , and in two evenings spent there after work , my colleagues and I are greeted by one of the local drunks - he may actually be the only one in Napier - and spot pretty much the same people walking by as the previous evening. The absence of people and the subsequent lack of noise moves one journalist to muse that this all a big film set , something like inTruman Show . Fruitful season Napier is the primary export sea port for north-eastern New Zealand and it thrives on tourism and the growing export of grapes , apples , pears and stone fruit. The student population is large here , as is the number of tourists who spend a few months here before they move on to their next destination . A few of the cafes and restaurants I sit at have European and British chefs , cashiers , bartenders and waitresses. Chefs can make $ 25 an hour , good money. The backpack lodges are full of Europeans , some of whom pick up temporary work as fruit pickers locally , owing to the ease with which they can get work visas. These 'seasonal jobs ' , as they are called , are advertised online and in various cities and towns across the country and attract the interest of many young travellers and backpackers. What a life , I think as I look a motley crew of South Americans and Europeans behind the register of a busy cafe in Napier 's central business area . © Cricbuzz Unfinished business Napier is home to Matthew Sinclair , who played 33 Tests and 54 ODIs for New Zealand and was a stalwart for Central Districts across 18 seasons from which he amassed 9148 first-class runs. The man who is most remembered on the international cricket scene for scoring 214 on Test debut against West Indies in 1999 , and 204 not out against Pakistan the following summer , today works for a real estate agency in Hawkes Bay. It has n't been a smooth ride for Sinclair. Far from that . After quitting cricket in 2013 , Sinclair sought the country 's unemployment benefit and searched desperately for work - he once called into a radio show hosted by former Black Caps opener Mark Richardson and introduced himself as the man who " scored a double hundred on debut " in hopes that among the listeners were prospective employers - and faced many moments of self-doubt . " Some dark days , for sure , but I never stopped trying , " he tells me. " Cricket tells you a lot about discipline. I 'm grateful I learned that early in my playing days. Supporting a family is n't easy , and after retiring I found myself without a job. It was scary. " Sinclair worked for a while as a sales assistant at a hunting and fishing shop in Napier before he was laid off , but fortunately for Sinclair and his family - wife Tina , son Liam and daughter Holly - the 39-year-old was offered a job from Harcourts in Hawkes Bay . For Sinclair , who while playing for his native Central Districts and off and on for New Zealand , did an assortment of odd jobs - stevedoring , fencing , retail sales among them - securing this job five months ago came as a big relief , and he is enjoying it. " The key here is longevity , " he says matter-of-factly. " I think this is a secure profession , and I 'm in it for the long haul. It has been terrific. It has tested me in ways that cricket did not. " And are there days when he ends up the salesman who just could n't make a sale ? " It 's a highly competitive profession and there are times when I get frustrated because I 'm not always in control. In cricket , with my game , I was pretty much in charge until I got dismissed. I controlled my training , I controlled the packing of my kit , I controlled my body movements out to the crease and while batting , " says Sinclair. " Its not always like that in my current profession. There are external factors and issues you can not control. That 's the toughest part. " Sinclair is no stranger to hardship. He 's buckling down for a long innings , and the start has been good. He should know a thing or two about starting strong and then fading , so now he 's on his toes . As his bio on Harcourts ' website says : " Allow me to make your selling experience a debut to remember. " © Cricbuzz Legends There are two old men looking at me at various junctures in Napier. They did the same in Christchurch , Dunedin and Wellington. Okay , before your minds start to wander let me explain. The two men are actors in the latest anti-drink driving commercial from the New Zealand Transport Agency ( NZTA ) as part of its ongoing road safety campaign. The ad features two old men standing across the street outside a gas station watching a bunch of inebriated college-goers leave a house party and get into a car. They then confront them and ask them not to drive home. After some mocking , the drunk guys get the seriousness of the two concerned citizens and allow to have these designated drivers drop them home. I first saw it on TV , but since leaving Christchurch I have seen hoardings of the same campaign , no more than in Napier where a bigcut-outstands opposite the motel I check intoand nearby walls on adjacent streets have posters plastered . The ads , that have the tagline of 'Legend ' , have become pretty popular. Its a unique way of targeting a new generation in a country with a high rate of drink-driving behaviour. Legends indeed . © Cricbuzz
