Need to execute plans well against India : Jason Holder Perth , Thu , Mar 05 2015 Last updated on Thursday , 05 March , 2015 , 11 : 07 AM Holder backed his bowlers to execute the team 's plans against the formidable batting line-up of the defending champions Holder also stated that his team will have to exploit the pace-friendly conditions of the WACA to overcome India Holder backed his bowlers to execute the team 's plans against the formidable batting line-up of the defending champions. © AFP Ahead of their crucial ICC Cricket World Cup Pool B fixture against India at the WACA on Friday , West Indies skipper Jason Holder backed his bowlers to execute the team 's plans against the formidable batting line-up of the defending champions . " I back my bowlers to execute their plans , putting them back and setting them on the back foot , " said Holder during the media briefing on the eve of the game. " But they have a pretty good line-up and some good quality players. We 've planned for them and we 're just looking to execute our plans tomorrow. " A win for West Indies , who are currently third with four points in Pool B , will solidify their claim for the quarter-final berth and Holder said in order to overcome India , they will have to exploit the pace-friendly conditions at the WACA. " I think it 's important to take it game by game. Obviously , we have India tomorrow. I think it 's important that we beat India first and move into our last preliminary game against UAE . " Traditionally the WACA has presented a lot of bumps and pits. I 've played here before and I 've enjoyed the conditions here. I 'm sure tomorrow will be no exception to that. But having said that , you still have to use the conditions in your favour. I think it 's important to hit the good areas and a good bowler is a good bowler. So the more good bowls you string together , the better off you 'll be in the game. " In their last game at Sydney , West Indies bowlers were taken to the cleaners by South Africa as they conceded 408 runs , with Holder going for 104 runs in his ten overs. But the skipper remained upbeat and stated that it was one of those bad days for him in the field . " It 's cricket. It 's sport. You have good days , you have bad days. I 've had a bad bowling effort in a sense in the last game. But the way I look at it , I just try to learn from it , and I 'm not too worried about it. That 's gone. That is in the past , and I 've taken a lot from it. So I 'm really looking forward tomorrow to just coming back stronger , " added the fast bowler . On being asked about MS Dhoni , Holder said he has learnt a lot from the Indian skipper. " I 've picked up a lot from Dhoni. He 's a good leader. He 's a guy who is respected in the dressing room. Going about my career I tend to look at a few players and look at a few things people do , not particularly MS Dhoni , but successful players who have played cricket before. I just try to take bits and pieces from everybody and try to put it together into one. " © Cricbuzz Tags
