Steyn stirs emotions with heartfelt thanks to Cape Town firefighters Auckland , Fri , Mar 06 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Friday , 06 March , 2015 , 03 : 57 AM It ( The wildfires ) really is terrible. A lot of animals , pets , homes , nobody should go through that kind of stuff © AFP If you had not been paying attention to what Dale Steyn had been saying during a laid-back , very frank and at times funny press conference inside Eden Park 's hospitality wing on Saturday afternoon , you certainly had his attention when he began to reply to the 11th question he was asked . In what was one of the most honest and stirring statements by an international cricket player - so rare in our times - Steyn spoke of the stress on him caused by the wildfires that have been raging for several days on Table Mountain , near Cape Town. Wildfires are common in the area at this time of year but this fire is one of the worst in recent years , and they have clearly affected the emotional South African fast bowler , who said that had he not been at the ICC Cricket World Cup , he would have dived straight in and done all he possibly could . " It was n't easy , " said Steyn. " I was actually staying in Canberra and I had left my phone on silent that night. So I woke up that morning and had like 80 messages or something , 30 missed calls. So I quickly jumped on it and realised the fires were a lot closer to my home than initially thought . " The scariest part came about 3 : 30 in the morning in Cape Town. I do n't know what time it was in Canberra. But the people looking after my house called me and said , 'listen , you 've got five minutes ? We 're evacuating. What do you want us to take out of your house ? ' I 've never been more scared in my life . " I 'm sitting halfway across the world , and everything that I 've ever earned or gotten in my life , every wicket , every ball , every bit of clothing in my 31 years is in that house. So it was pretty scary to think 'what do you tell this person ? ' They 've got five minutes to take everything out. I was pretty much shitting myself. " Here , Steyn chose his words well , thanking all the firefighters and rescue relief teams in South Africa who have been battling the flames which have destroyed homes and turned huge areas of plants to ash . " Just a tremendous job by all those firefighters and the volunteers that put their lives at risk. ( They 've ) never met me before , never met most of the people , " he said. " They were just kind of like throwing themselves at it and putting out those fires. " Then he indicated towards South African journalist and fellow Cape Town resident Neil Manthorp , seated in the front row. " You 've got Manners sitting over there and I 'm sure he was as nervous as I was. Jacques ' [ Kallis ] house , his lawn was on fire. If I was at home I 'd dive straight into it and do what I can to help. It 's really is terrible. A lot of animals , pets , homes , nobody should go through that kind of stuff. It 's a pretty tough time back home right now. " Steyn 's words of concern and thanks were prompt , emotional and gracious. They commanded the attention of everyone gathered in the media centre at Eden Park , where ironically outside a light drizzle fell from a grey sky . Sport , it is said , often mirrors life. For those few moments on Friday , there was proof that life is far more important than sport . © Cricbuzz
