Calm Dhoni anchors tense India chase Perth , Fri , Mar 06 2015 by Tanmoy Mookherjee Last updated on Saturday , 07 March , 2015 , 02 : 49 AM India 's lower middle-order was tested in a tense chase of 182 By virtue of their win , India have now qualified for the knockouts MS Dhoni played a patient innings to guide India home in a tense chase © Getty That India had n't been stretched all the way in any of their three previous outings meant that one tough outing was around the corner , and in their fourth game against the West Indies at the WACA ground on Friday , it needed their lower order to buckle down and see them through to a tense four-wicket victory. After West Indies had huffed and puffed their way to 182 before being bowled out in 44.2 overs , India needed the calm presence of captain MS Dhoni in the middle to anchor their chase and the target was achieved in the 40th over in front of the biggest attendance the WACA ground saw in the three games it was allotted in the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup . Like India who had overdone the short ball to concede 16 wides , the West Indies , who began the defence of their small total encouragingly , exceeded their counterparts with 19 despite making frequent breakthroughs. Two early wickets put India on the backfoot as Jerome Taylor snuffed out openers Shikhar Dhawan and Rohit Sharma in an opening spell that matched Mohammed Shami 's earlier in the day . The blazing afternoon sun made way for a cool breeze in the evening , and the West Indies bowlers - who were given an animated lecture by bowling coach Curtly Ambrose that looked more like a shellacking before the start of the innings - found extra zip off the pitch. Virat Kohli looked unruffled until he had reached 33 when he miscued a pull shot off Andre Russell , while Ajinkya Rahane was done for by Kemar Roach , the faintest of edges cutting short his innings for 14 . Another 105 were still needed when a loud cheer greeted Dhoni to the crease , but it seemed more like one out of relief from the anticipating crowd. His usual routine - with dabs and touches around the wicket and the odd boundary - calmed the dressing-room. Suresh Raina and Ravindra Jadeja 's dismissals had left India on 134 for 6 , but too few runs were needed at that stage , and along with Ashwin ( 16 * ) , Dhoni remained unbeaten on 45 ( 56b , 3x4 , 1x6 ) to knock off the remaining runs without much trouble . Dhoni 's effort had replicated that of West Indies captain Jason Holder , whose 57 had earlier taken his team out of dire difficulty to post 182 after they had been reduced to 85 for 7 in the 25th over. The urge to dominate had got the better of the West Indies batting order after electing to bat on a WACA wicket that was devoid of any grass , but produced ample bounce and carry . India 's fielders dropped four catches - two off Chris Gayle - but the West Indies batsmen were unable to capitalize on the lapses in the field. They had a collective brain-fade at the start of their innings , and began going south immediately after Gayle was out for 21. Shami , returning to the side after missing the UAE game in place of Bhuvneshwar Kumar , bowled a splendid opening spell ( 6-2-19-2 ) that set the tone for the rest of the bowlers , even though they should have wrapped up the innings earlier . Early inroads had meant West Indies were reduced to 39 for 4 inside the first 10 overs , which became 71 for 5 after 20 as they slumped to poor shot selection against an Indian bowling attack that has relished bowling with the white ball in this competition. After Shami and Umesh Yadav had dealt early blows , Ashwin , Mohit Sharma and Jadeja offered nothing loose for their stroke-makers to flourish . It was clear from Jason Holder 's decision to bat that West Indies wanted to stamp their authority on the match , but his batsmen failed to back up his decision after Shami and Yadav bowled an opening spell full of zest and accuracy , driven by countless fans making the trip to the WACA on a hot summer 's day , also the occasion of Holi . Movement in the air was an added benefit , but Shami and Yadav began with a plan. Overs three , four and five were maidens that built up pressure and Dwayne Smith offered a simple chance to MS Dhoni off Shami after scoring six. In the best of times , it is never a good idea to run quick singles with either Chris Gayle or Marlon Samuels at the other end , but when the two came together , something had to give . Both Umesh and Shami had dropped tough chances off each other 's bowling when Gayle attempted to break the shackles , but the next mistimed shot saw Samuels charging down to Gayle 's end , only for the batsman to watch the ball drop short of Mohit Sharma , pick it up and throw it back at Samuels 's end . When it was pitched up , Gayle went after it but the stifling of runs with a back-of-a-length plan prodded him into top-edging a pull in the ninth over. Save for his record-setting 215 against Zimbabwe , Gayle has had a quiet World Cup , failing to dominate any of the bowling attacks he has come up against . Denesh Ramdin was bowled first ball which broke the back of the West Indies innings before the 10th over was completed , and the subsequent dismissals of Lendl Simmons , Jonathan Carter and Andre Russell turned a hugely anticipated match into a no-contest. Holder , first in a sedate 39-run partnership with Darren Sammy [ 26 , 55b , 2x4 ] and then a 51-run stand with Jerome Taylor , propped the team up to 182 and had used up 44.2 overs before they were bowled out , when batting out 30 overs looked difficult at one stage . Brief scores : West Indies 182 in 44.2 overs ( Jason Holder 57 ; Shami 3/35 , Jadeja 2/27 ) lost to India 185/6 in 39.1 overs ( Dhoni 45 * , Kohli 33 ; Jerome Taylor 2/33 , Andre Russell 2/43 ) by four wickets . © Cricbuzz Tags
