Record-setter Coetzer overwhelmed by Scottish support Napier , Sat , Mar 07 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Saturday , 07 March , 2015 , 01 : 51 AM Coetzer 's 134-ball 156 took Scotland to 318 for 8 - the second-highest for any non-Test nation Coetzer surpassed Scotland 's all-time individual score list in World Cups , beating Gavin Hamilton 's 76 in 1999 . According to Coetzer , Scotland have taken plenty of confidence from the loss to Bangladesh © Getty Scotland opener Kyle Coetzer has still not finished replying to the stream of congratulatory messages he 's received via email , text messages and on Twitter after becoming the first Associates-level batsman to score 150 in a World Cup. The former captain achieved the record against Bangladesh in Nelson on Thursday , hitting 156 from 134 balls to help Scotland make 318 for 8 - their highest total in World Cups and the second-highest for any non-Test nation - and although it was ultimately not enough to secure a maiden win in the tournament , Coetzer believes his innings and the team performance has given the team plenty of confidence . " I 've been overwhelmed , really , and still to get through a lot of the well wishes that have come through , " he told Cricbuzz. " The support we 've had has been tremendous. I think we did expect some support in New Zealand , especially in Dunedin with its Scottish roots , but it really has been overwhelming. Personally for me after the last game , I 'm still to get through all of them. It 's amazing . " It gives that little bit of belief , that we are capable of putting a performance like that on a given day. Guys have shown signs of that throughout the tournament but we were n't able to put it all together. It was nice for us to put that big total on board. " The inning was indeed an important one , both for Coetzer , 30 , and Scotland. In their World Cup opener against New Zealand they made just 142 in 36.2 overs , 184 in 42.2 versus England and then 210 against Afghanistan. All three defeats had a common theme - that of Scotland 's batsmen not clicking in unison. The exciting opener Calum MacLeod came into the World Cup having scored four international centuries in 2014 to help Scotland qualify , but in the tournament he has made 15 runs in four games. Preston Mommsen , the captain , has not converted starts. Against England in Christchurch , Coetzer batted beautifully for 71 but fell playing an attempted big shot. Batsmen not converting fifties into big innings was letting down the team . " We 'd spoken about it in some of our team meetings , the importance of one or two well-set batsmen getting on with their innings and seeing the game through , " said Coetzer. " We 've done that well before the World Cup but only managed it once here. It 's obviously a step up in the World Cup , and we really need to get back to the formula that worked well over the past couple years. " In Nelson , it took Coetzer 11 deliveries to move from 94 to his hundred , but once he secured the landmark with a six off Rubel Hossain , he needed 31 balls for his next 53 runs. Rubel was hit for two fours and a six in one over , Bangladesh captain Mashrafe Mortaza for the same in the 42nd , and then Coetzer 's fine innings came to an end in the 45th over when he heaved Nasir Hossain to deep midwicket. In scoring 156 , he surpassed Scotland 's all-time individual score list in World Cups , beating Gavin Hamilton 's 76 in 1999 . " I picked the boundaries I wanted to target , the shorter sides with the wind blowing across , " says Coetzer. " It 's one of the things where on the day you get the feeling that you need to start kicking on , and that 's what I tried to do. It was a really good wicket. Not much room for error for the bowlers , and if they did stray , the Bangladeshi batsmen showed their experience by knocking the score off , putting the bad balls away. They 've all got their various skills , it would have been tough for any of the bowlers to bowl from one end , running into the breeze. Unless they were nailing their yorkers or slower balls , it was hard to bowl. Luckily I was set and was able to play the shots I wanted to , cleared the ropes. " On the day , Shakib Al Hasan was Bangladesh 's best bowler. Taking one of the two new balls , the left-arm spinner finished with 1 for 46 in ten overs , bowling 22 balls to Coetzer who scored 20 runs off them. Facing the crafty Shakib , feels Coetzer , was difficult but it gave him plenty of confidence . " It was my first time playing Shakib , it was a challenge , " he says. " You watch him on footage and try to get a few cues going into the match but it 's never quite the same in the match. He varied his pace extremely well and used the drift he can get into the right-hander , it was challenging. But as a group I think we played Shakib really well because we 'd done our homework on him. " The Aberdeen-born Coetzer , who has represented Scotland since the Under-15 level , captained them at the Under-19 World Cup in 2004 and was their leading run-getter at the 2009 ICC World Twenty20 , believes that the team has taken plenty of confidence from the loss to Bangladesh. " There have been several aspects throughout the tournament : we 've bowled well in a few games , we had New Zealand seven down in Dunedin , myself getting a few runs. Hopefully that adds to the belief that we have , " he said. " That 's the next step for us - believing that we 're capable of doing things like that more often. We 'll only get that by playing more sides more often , getting the exposure. Definitely pluses to take out of some of our performances in the World Cup. " With the ICC looking at limiting the number of teams at the 2019 World Cup to ten , the need for Associates to put wins on board has become imperative. According to Coetzer , solidarity between these teams was key. " It 's the world stage and it 's important for us to get that first win. We 've beaten Bangladesh in the past , but never in a World Cup. We 're hungry for that first win , " he said. " We want to keep showing what we 're capable of. Qualifying for this tournament was huge , we did it convincingly. Us , the UAE , Ireland and Afghanistan , I think we 've showed that we 're all on par now and capable of beating each other on any given day. We want any one of the Associates to go on and do well to paint a better picture of all of us. " Scotland have two more matches in Hobart to try and collect a win : against Sri Lanka on March 11 and Australia on March 14. Coetzer is hopeful of that happening so that the game gets a facelift back in Scotland . " During the previous 50-over World Cup in England , I remember seeing neighbours who were n't necessarily cricket fans taking their kids out to the park to play cricket. It 's like Wimbledon , you see people carrying tennis rackets out to the open courts. Unfortunately it is winter back in Scotland , so I 'm not sure people will be taking their cricket bats out to the park , but I 'm hoping it 's having a similar effect , " he said. " The coverage has been really good for us , and I do n't think people realise how big a following cricket has back in Scotland. There is a passion for it throughout the country , and we need as much exposure as we can get. We 've got some really talented players back home in our junior setup , doing well over the last ten years. I 'd love to see the game moving forward in Scotland. " More innings from him like that splendid 156 and more results is the best way to do that . © Cricbuzz
