Virat Kohli Best-Placed Indian at No. 2 in ICC ODI Rankings Virat Kohli Best-Placed Indian at No. 2 in ICC ODI Rankings Virat Kohli , who is currently leading India against Australia in the fourth and final Test in Sydney , has 862 points in his kitty , still 25 points behind AB de Villiers of South Africa , who is heading the list . Last updated on Friday , 09 January , 2015 16 : 28 IST Total Shares Pacer Mohammad Shami shares a light moment with Virat Kohli at a training session . © AFP Dubai : Prolific batsman Virat Kohli is the best-placed Indian at the second spot in the latest ICC ODI ranking list , which also has out-of-form opener Shikhar Dhawan and skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni in the top 10 . Kohli , who is currently leading India against Australia in the fourth and final Test in Sydney , has 862 points in his kitty , still 25 points behind AB de Villiers of South Africa , who is heading the list. ( Also read : Why Aussie greats are unhappy with Kohli 's iffy Test captaincy ) Dhawan , who has been in poor form in the Australia tour , is placed at the fifth spot , while Dhoni is at the number 10th spot in the batsmen ranking which was released today . Among the bowlers , pacer Bhuvneshwar Kumar and injured spinner Ravindra Jadeja are the only two Indians within the top 10 ranking at the eighth and ninth spot respectively . There are several permutations that could emerge over the coming weeks as Australia , England and India are also set to face off in a tri-series in Australia , while New Zealand and Sri Lanka go head to head in a seven-match ODI series , starting in Christchurch on Sunday . All of the competing sides and their players will have an opportunity to progress ahead of the ICC Cricket World Cup , starting on February 14 . In the ICC Player Rankings for ODI Batsmen , Sri Lanka batsmen Kumar Sangakarra is the highest-ranked batsman heading into the series and he lies in fourth place on 811 points , 17 points adrift of South Africa 's Hashim Amla . Sangakarra is joined by his team-mate Tillikaratne Dilshan who is in seventh place and holds a four-point lead over New Zealand 's Kane Williamson , who is in ninth position . His compatriot Ross Taylor is one place outside of the top 10 in 11th spot and will be aiming to reduce India skipper Dhoni 's 16-point advantage. Taylor holds a 34-point lead over Angelo Mathews , who is a further place behind . Amongst the other batsmen who are likely to feature in the series are Mahela Jayawardena ( 23rd ) , Martin Guptill ( 27th ) , Black Caps skipper Brendon McCullum ( 33rd ) and Lahiru Thirimanne ( 45th ) . In the Rankings for ODI Bowlers , seventh-ranked Sri Lanka spinner Sachithra Senanayake will be looking to reduce James Anderson 's 22-point gap . Fourteenth-placed Rangana Herath is the other Sri Lanka bowler inside the top 20 , while Kyle Mills is the hosts ' highest-ranked bowler in 22nd place . Veteran left-armer Daniel Vettori and Tim Southee are tied on 593 points in 26th position in the rankings . Story first published on : Friday , 09 January 2015 15 : 25 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
