Impetuous Jadeja testing Dhoni 's patience Perth , Sat , Mar 07 2015 by Tanmoy Mookherjee Last updated on Saturday , 07 March , 2015 , 09 : 24 AM Jadeja 's form with the bat is a big matter of concern. © Getty Victory was achieved in their fourth consecutive game in the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup but their game against West Indies at the WACA was not without some nervous moments. A modest chase of 183 was made difficult first by the evening conditions , then by the West Indies quicks , and then by some silly stroke-play by some of India 's middle order batsmen . India have had a relatively easy run in the competition with the top order batsmen contributing heavily in the team 's totals in the first two games against Pakistan and South Africa , and the lower middle order was unable to kick on as they lost wickets in a cluster towards the end of the innings. They were tested against West Indies and while Dhoni was able to anchor the chase , he was a little annoyed by some of the shots executed by the others . Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , Suresh Raina 's wickets made India stutter but it was still expected to be a regulation chase with Dhoni and Ravindra Jadeja at the crease. The two have spent many hours in the middle handling similar situations for India as well as their IPL team , but Jadeja 's impetuousness got the better of him when he went for an extravagant pull shot and holed out in the deep . During the tri-series in Australia , an injury to Jadeja had meant Axar Patel , a player of similar skill , was given a go but he failed to deliver with the bat , found out by the extra bounce on his first overseas tour with the team. Dhoni was always of the view that he would prefer Jadeja over Axar predominantly for his experience , but his recent performances have left him searching for answers . " No , I think he needs to improve , " he said at the post-match press conference when asked if he was happy with the way Jadeja had applied himself. " He needs to step up really because we have a lot of faith in him , but at the end of the day you ca n't really play with hope. What you want is actually performance on the field. " There could have been various reasons why Dhoni looked more animated than usual while speaking to the media , and his assessment of Jadeja 's performance was more blunt that anything else. Yesterday , Jadeja had Dhoni for company but fell for the lure of the short ball in a bid to dominate the bowlers after scoring a 23-ball 13. In three outings at the World Cup , Jadeja has managed 18 runs so far , a far cry from his capabilities as a batsman . " He has that capability. You do n't get three triple hundreds in India just because you know how to bat , " he said. " He 's definitely talented , but he needs to keep believing in himself. Every batsman is tested in a few areas. They will bowl short deliveries to him. He will have to find a way in which he can tackle it because every batsman tackles it in a different way , so he 'll have to find a way. Or the second option will be we try to give him a platform where he does n't have to worry about that. " Dhoni spoke at length about the lower middle order having two vastly different roles in different situations of the match , both of which have their own challenges . " He goes and freely plays his big shots because where he 'll find it difficult is if he goes in slightly early - if he goes in close to the 30th-over mark - that 's when he has to think as to he 'll play his big shots or if he has to rotate where he can play the big shots and all that. We 'll have to assess all of that and we 'll have to give him a bit more liberty to play his big shots , but it will need a platform from the top order. " India now move onto New Zealand where they play their two remaining group fixtures , and asked if he would tinker with the bowling combination with Jadeja not in particularly good form , he said he would prefer the left-arm spinning allrounder 's option. In his defence , Jadeja did have a reasonably good series in New Zealand when India had visited last year . " The problem is the side looks better when we play with two spinners , " he said. " Even though Jadeja is not performing really well as a batsman , he still gives you that comfort if he is at six or seven and it looks like a slightly better side . " It becomes a difficult one , but at the same time as I said , hopefully the spinners would have learned from the last outing in New Zealand. Yes , they may not get a lot of turn over there , but they can still play with the pace and they can vary their length to a lot of extent. Hopefully , both the spinners are bowling well and they 'll carry the form forward into the next couple of games. " As they move into the deeper end of the tournament , Dhoni would be hoping for his players to start peaking , and his words for a change were strong. He has already indicated that India will continue with their current XI in the forthcoming games , and Jadeja 's form in this context becomes even more vital . © Cricbuzz Tags
