This is Pakistan , after all Auckland , Sat , Mar 07 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Saturday , 07 March , 2015 , 10 : 17 AM Pakistan 's 2015 World Cup campaign has roared back to life with three consecutive victories. The bowlers , in particular , put up a great show against South Africa in Auckland. © Getty Pakistan versus South Africa at Eden Park , ground of the notoriously short straight boundaries. Pakistan are wounded , desperate. South Africa are upbeat , riding on AB de Villiers ' pyrotechnics and Hashim Amla 's prolific form. Twice they 've crossed 400. Pakistan struggled to 339 against UAE. The knives are out , the post mortem being prepared. This is Pakistan , after all . You 've watched Pakistan get flattened by West Indies in Christchurch and beat UAE unconvincingly in Napier. You 've seen Misbah-ul-Haq stare into the distance when fielding questions from the media , his words succinct but laced with frustration , at times borderline resignation even. You 've heard of in-fighting , read of the resignation and rejection of the team 's fielding coach in the same day , seen one player argue with another member of the coaching staff , another takes aside a reporter and questions his choice of words. After one loss , Misbah joked to a bunch of journalists that in the next match he would play 11 bowlers , and in the next , 11 batsmen. This is Pakistan , after all . South Africa opt to field. There 's rain due. An obligatory early wicket falls. Heads drop , fingers tighten , keyboards flutter. This is Pakistan , after all . When Sarfraz Ahmed takes the attack back to South Africa , hitting three sixes in one JP Duminy over , you lean forward in your seat. Something 's stirring , the difference can be felt. You think about a couple of nights ago , after the win over UAE , when Pakistan coach Waqar Younis is reminded by a scribe that Moin Khan , the chief selector , said Sarfraz was picked as the third opener. You think of the look on Waqar 's face as he pauses , finds the correct words to reply with. You chuckle. This is Pakistan , after all . Sarfraz is making a statement. He looks set for a big innings. You think of his exaggerated reaction after scoring a fifty in an ODI as opener against New Zealand in the UAE last year. Then , on 49 from 49 balls , the hyperactive Sarfraz makes the mistake of chancing a South African arm on a second run and ends up diving into his crease a fraction too late. This is Pakistan , after all . Younis Khan , drafted back into the team , plays a couple of nice shots , looks settled , unhurried. Plays out Steyn and Morne Morkel well. Is this the day he so desperately yearns for ? Then he gets out to AB de Villiers. Yes , de Villiers. A leading edge , of all ways. This is Pakistan , after all . When Misbah potters around 30 balls for his first eight runs , you shake your head. Umar Akmal comes and goes for 13 , the score 175 for 5. Then rain arrives from the east , a grey sleet across the ground. During those 25 minutes of interruption in play , a Pakistani reporter jokes that this is good. " We 'll take one point for the washout. " This is Pakistan , after all . The rain stops. When you go out of the media box and sit in a seat in the top tier to get a feel for the crowd , another Pakistani journalist sitting next to you pumps his fists when Shahid Afridi swings Dale Steyn for six. When Afridi tries it next ball and gets out , the journalist curses and bangs the armrest of his seat. This is Pakistan , after all . In the last 16 balls of the innings since Misbah steers Steyn to third man , Pakistan score three singles and a leg bye for the loss of two wickets. Bowled out inside their given 47 overs. Another weak batting performance. Only one fifty , two scores between 37 and 49 , three between 13 and 22. This is Pakistan , after all . Quinton de Kock edges the second ball from Mohammad Irfan to Sarfraz behind the stumps. Pakistan are pumped. But then you know that young de Kock has n't scored a run all tournament , and that South Africa have become used to starting from an early loss. Hashim Amla does n't break a sweat as he carves out his first 32 runs in boundaries. This is Pakistan , after all . Eating dinner during the start of South Africa 's chase , you check the score of the Ireland-Zimbabwe game. Ed Joyce has a quick century and Ireland are looking at at least 300. Two journalists are discussing who Pakistan will face in the quarter-finals. You are n't convinced they will make it that far. At just that moment , Faf du Plessis hooks and pulls Rahat Ali for six and four in the same over. The momentum is with South Africa . Boom. Four wickets fall for ten runs in 31 balls. Rahat has his revenge , extracting du Plessis for 27 with one that climbs up. Second catch for Sarfraz. Wahab Riaz gets another to lift sharply , Amla nicks it to Sarfraz who takes it one handed when falling to his right. Rilee Rossouw mistimes the hook off Wahab to fine leg. David Miller makes 0 from 13 balls , caught dead in front by Rahat. How the innings has shifted. This is Pakistan , after all . In the washroom , you meet the Pakistan media manager. Could this be the day , you ask , now that Pakistan have taken five wickets in 16 overs. " We need to take ten , " comes a battle-weary reply. This is Pakistan , after all . As you settle back at your desk , de Villiers whips two sixes in three balls from Wahab. The South African supporters in the stand erupt. Moments later , Yasir Shah fumbles at third man to allow de Villiers a boundary. This is Pakistan , after all . De Villiers threatens to hit South Africa out of a deep hole and fashion a famous win. Wahab returns , de Villiers laps him for six , top-edges him for four. Wahab kicks the ground. Misbah puts hands on hips. Behind the stumps , Sarfraz looks agitated. Surely de Villiers can not do it all on his own ? This is Pakistan , after all . And then , boom. Sohail Khan is brought back. De Villiers charges and gets an edge to Sarfraz , his fifth catch of the innings , to draw level with Moin Khan and Umar Akmal 's record. Moments later , as the rain returns at a slant , Sarfraz becomes the record holder for Pakistan wicketkeepers in ODIs when Imran Tahir - born and raised in Pakistan - nicks off against Wahab. The team goes berserk , diving into a huddle. Whoops , shouts , the whole shebang . You lean back in your chair , amazed. You clap. You are exhilarated. Sarfraz , who could n't find a way into the XI , and of whom Misbah had to field many probing questions over the past few weeks , takes a Pakistan record six catches. He is named Man of the Match. Incredible. This is Pakistan , after all . Did South Africa choke ? Or was it Pakistan 's storied , mad-cap unpredictability ? History tells us that if there ' one cricket team capable of being deplorable one moment and delightful the next , it is Pakistan , after all. No one displays unpredictability better than Pakistan , after all . After the match , Waqar Younis fielded questions on Pakistan 's bounce-back-ability and unpredictability. He is told that de Villiers reckoned Pakistan 's bowlers did n't turn on the heat that much , it was just a case of poor South African batting. " He may not have felt it , but the others certainly did , " replies Waqar with a smile . Then , one question annoys him. He is demanded an admittance that Pakistan kept Sarfraz out of the team until today because of internal politics. He stifles his frustration , starts to reply. He is interrupted by another bolder question , suggesting a clash between him and Sarfraz. " I think we should end this press conference now , because I do n't have time for your stupid questions. " Waqar is gone. This is Pakistan , after all . One match remains for Misbah 's team. Ireland in Adelaide , eight days from now. The longest gap in the tournament that Pakistan have had. Theyve played three matches in seven days , winning all three. Passage to the quarter-finals is not secured yet. Ireland , of course , beat them in the 2007 World Cup to cue a surprise early exit. Having rediscovered the hunger that they often lose , Pakistan have given themselves and the tournament the match both so desperately needed. But you can not predict what will happen in Adelaide . This is Pakistan , after all . © Cricbuzz Tags
