AB de Villiers , not so limitless Auckland , Sat , Mar 07 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Saturday , 07 March , 2015 , 11 : 22 AM More than de Villiers the batsman , South Africa need de Villiers the leader , the inspiration , the motivator to drag them forward. © AFP On the eve of this match , Dale Steyn compared AB de Villiers to the character with various superhuman powers as portrayed by Keanu Reeves in the The Matrix trilogy. " Oh , man , it 's like watching The Matrix movie , really , " he said. " There is Neo for you right there. Like he just does n't understand how good he is. There is no roof or cap on how good he can possibly be. He 's limitless in what he can do. " Limitless with the bat , it would seem during the last year , but as a leader of this South African team de Villiers is limited. As is his team , like on evenings such as this when they collapse in what should be a straightforward chase. And when the others do n't stand up , even de Villiers - superhuman , freakish , Neo-like de Villiers - is not guaranteed of lifting South Africa . After the loss , which leaves South Africa needing to beat UAE in their last league match of the Word Cup , the skipper looked a defeated man . " I hate losing. I really do , " said de Villiers , his eyes flushed but his cheeks reddening as he controlled burning emotions. " So I have nothing good to say about the team at the moment. I 'm very disappointed. Even though I scored some runs , I 'm disappointed in my own performance. I should have finished it off. I 've done it before so many times. Just could n't cross the line tonight. Hopefully , we 've got four games left in this World Cup , and still an opportunity to lift the trophy. We 've got opportunity , like I said before , to fix things against UAE , to play a really good game of cricket and go into the quarterfinals with a good fresh mindset , and mindset of believing we 're the best team here. I still believe that , I 've just got nothing good to say about our performance today. " Though his brand of captaincy is still developing , in this World Cup de Villiers the leader has been entirely different from de Villiers the batsman. In the 130-run loss to India , he bowled JP Duminy ahead of Morne Morkel for seven wicketless overs , a passage of play that allowed Shikhar Dhawan and Virat Kohli to set in motion a century partnership. It send the message that de Villiers was going defensive , instead of attacking with his experienced fast bowler. Even considering the over-rate concerns , the dependence on Duminy 's part-time offspin reeked of insecurity . Today , during a terrific first spell ( 3-2-5-0 ) Steyn had Pakistan 's openers playing from the crease watchfully , the ball landing on probing lengths and darting about. Then de Villiers took him off , allowing Sarfraz Ahmed to push South Africa back with a superb counter-punch. On came the legspinner Imran Tahir to bowl the 11th over , and he conceded two fours. Then , surprisingly , de Villiers brought himself on. Two more fours off the over and you could sense the momentum shifting. Next , Duminy was brought on. In his second over , Sarfraz walloped three sixes. After 16 overs , Pakistan were 90 for 1 . Only after Sarfraz ran himself out for a run-a-ball 49 did de Villiers go back to Steyn , but for only two overs that cost five runs. After operating with Tahir and Morne Morkel , de Villiers returned. Two more fours off the over. You found yourself scratching your chin at the decision. In his third over , de Villiers did produce a wicket , but that was more because Younis got a leading edge to cover off an innocuous delivery. South Africa 's captain , wide eyed and gleeful , accepted the claps and shoves from his team-mates , but there was no masking the softness of Younis ' shot. De Villiers persisted with himself for three more overs , each of which contained a boundary , and finished with 1 for 43 from six overs. An economy of 7.16 , second to Duminy 's 11.33 from three. He got away relatively unscathed today , but that may not be the case the next time de Villiers depends on his un-alarming assortments of goods . That said , not many could have envisioned Pakistan 's collapse , even given the infamous 'C ' word. Tonight at Eden Park , they needed a Duckworth/Lewis revised target of 232 in 47 overs. From 67 for 1 , they went to 77 for 5 in a flash , then 102 for 6 , 138 for 7 , 172 for 8 , 200 for 9 and 202 all out. De Villiers threatened to seal a thriller , clouting his way to 77 from 58 balls , but one charge too many clinched the game for Pakistan . This was South Africa 's second loss in the World Cup , and both times they messed up when chasing. Against India , they were bowled out for 177 in 40.2 overs when set 308. Stacked up against their three wins so far , in which batting first they made 339 for 4 , 408 for 5 and 411 for 4 , South Africa 's two failed chases stand out. Asked what the difference was when his team chased and batted first , de Villiers was at a loss . " I 'm not sure. It 's a disappointing loss that once again we seem to not get enough partnerships in pressure situations , " he said. " We 've done it in the past , but unfortunately tonight we could n't do that , so very disappointing loss. I felt that Pakistan wanted it more than us , so there 's nothing wrong with the batting. It 's just a matter of urgency and being prepared to fight it out . " If we want to , we can make it a really as bad as it is , we can make it worse than it is. I would n't say there are any scars unless we create the scars ourselves. I truly believe there is nothing wrong with the batting lineup. Nothing wrong with the cricket team. It 's just a matter of pitching up and playing good cricket , and wanting to play good cricket. So I would n't say there are any scars. I really believe we can chase down any total at any time. It just did n't happen tonight , and I honestly do n't have the answer for you. " De Villiers then said something interesting about the mood in the camp , eerily indicative of the way South Africa and de Villiers carried themselves today. " I did n't feel any electric vibe at the warm-up. That is normally a bit of alarm bell going off for me. And secondly , it is my responsibility to try to get the guys going , which I could n't , so maybe I should take responsibility for that. I just could feel that nothing was really happening at a hundred percent. It was almost like a car that 's stuck in second or third gear , and that 's not going to win you cricket games , especially not under pressure and in big tournaments like this. " South Africa are hurting today , and should be until they meet UAE in Wellington on March 12. De Villiers denied that too much was being asked of him as fielder , batsman and captain. " I know I ca n't win this World Cup alone. There is no way. " There are limits to his batting in ODIs , we were reminded today. But more than de Villiers the batsman , South Africa need de Villiers the leader , the inspiration , the motivator to drag them forward in a World Cup they were tipped to conquer . © Cricbuzz Tags
