Ireland pip Zimbabwe in thriller Sat , Mar 07 2015 Last updated on Saturday , 07 March , 2015 , 11 : 57 AM Ireland held their nerve to register their third win. © Getty Trust Zimbabwe and Ireland to serve World Cup thrillers. In Kingston , Jamaica in the 2007 World Cup the two teams served up a thrilling tie. On Saturday , the Bellerive Oval in Hobart witnessed two classy hundreds , two near misses and eventually Ireland pipped Zimbabwe by five runs to keep their quarter-final hopes alive. In a topsy-turvy encounter , the two teams traded blow for blow , Ed Joyce and Andrew Balbirnie 's 112 and 97 were matched by Brendan Taylor and Sean Williams ' 121 and 96 respectively. Alex Cusack ( 4 for 32 ) turned out to be the tie-breaker this time. The fast bowler held his nerve to defend seven off the final over to hand Ireland a famous victory . After allowing Ireland to post 331 , Zimbabwe could n't have gotten off to a worse start. In a span of 15 deliveries , they fell from being 32 for none to 42 for 3. John Mooney had Raza ( 12 ) edging a full delivery to Paul Stirling at first slip. Chibhabha ( 18 ) then fell attempting to hit Cusack over the in-field on the off-side before Kevin O'Brien snared senior batsman Hamilton Masakadza ( 5 ) . Despite the loss of early wickets , captain Taylor started off positively. He took a liking to Kevin O'Brien 's medium-pacers , hitting the Irish all-rounder for four boundaries in two overs. Solomon Mire , promoted to No 3 , survived a dropped chance before falling in the next over , George Dockrell 's first , slapping a short-delivery straight to the backward point fielder. The dismissal brought together the left-right pair of Taylor and Williams , who nearly scripted a famous Zimbabwe win . The duo gave a tutorial in batsmanship to those conveniently placed above them in the batting order. With Porterfield opting to operate with spinners , Andy McBrine and Dockrell , the two batsman were afforded the luxury of settling in and they did just that. Both Taylor and Williams were content with milking the singles and picking the occasional boundary on offer. Such was their pacing , that the 50-run stand came off 45 balls and the 100 off the 90th delivery . While Taylor marched towards his ton , equalling Alistair Campbell 's Zimbabwe record of seven centuries , Williams provided the ideal foil , turning the strike over and keeping the scoreboard ticking. Taylor completed his ton off 79 balls at the stroke of the batting Powerplay. He then smoked 18 runs off a Dockrell over before falling to a well-disguised slower ball from Cusack , a leading edge carrying to Kevin O'Brien at mid-wicket for 121. Williams , then turned aggressive and got to his fifty as the batting Powerplay yielded 41 for the loss of Taylor . Despite losing Craig Ervine ( 11 ) , Williams continued to pick the gaps in the field to perfection. With Regis Chakabva turning the strike over , Williams brought down the equation to a gettable 32 off 19 before a controversial decision ended his innings four short of a maiden century. Williams ' pull shot off Kevin O'Brien was taken by Mooney over his head on the deep mid-wicket fence , but in the process , he appeared to have touched the boundary rope while completing the catch. Replays proved to be inconclusive but Williams took the fielder 's word and walked off. Just when it appeared that Ireland were finally assured of the win , No 10 batsman Tawanda Mupariwa smashed 19 runs of the penultimate over to bring the equation down to 7 off 6 before Cusack struck , removing the final two wickets to seal a memorable win . In hind sight , Zimbabwe could have restricted the Irish to under 300 had they taken their chances. Despite having been put into bat under overcast conditions , Ireland rode on Zimbabwe 's shoddy fielding , Ed Joyce 's third ODI century and a quickfire 97 from Andrew Balbirnie to notch up 331 for 8 , their highest total in World Cup history. After enduring a sluggish start in which Ireland lost both Paul Stirling and William Porterfield , Joyce and Balbirnie stitched together a stirring 138-run stand as Ireland went from being 79 for 2 in the 21st over to 217 for 3 in the 38th . However , led by Tendai Chatara ( 3 for 61 ) , Zimbabwe were able to restrict Ireland when 350 seemed a strong possibility. Much of it was down to Balbirnie getting stranded at the non-striker 's end in the 90s. When he did get strike , in the final over , a desperation to get to his maiden hundred resulted in him getting run-out , three short of the milestone. However , even 331 proved to be a tad steep target , even for the spirited Zimbabweans . Brief Scores : Ireland 331/8 ( Ed Joyce 112 , A Balbirnie 97 , T Chatara 3/61 ) beat Zimbabwe 326 all out in 49.3 overs ( Brendan Taylor 121 , Sean Williams 96 , A Cusack 4/32 ) by 5 runs . © Cricbuzz Tags
