Clarke challenged to find focus amidst myriad emotions Sydney , Sat , Mar 07 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Saturday , 07 March , 2015 , 12 : 30 PM Clarke spoke of Watson in glowing terms , even though he was n't sure whether the allrounder would play against Sri Lanka. ( Image credit : G Rajaraman ) © Cricbuzz Australia captain Michael Clarke 's calm exterior belies a mind which is swarmed by myriad thoughts. It will be interesting to see how he is able to deal with them all when he sets out to lead the team in the crucial Group A game against Sri Lanka in the ICC Cricket World Cup at his home venue , the Sydney Cricket Ground , on Sunday . He seemed more than a bit concerned about the dry SCG strip on which the match will be played ; his terse response to the first question about Shane Watson gave away a bit more than he wanted out about having a little say in the selection of the XI ; above all , he has to come to terms with walking past the bronze plaque to commemorate his friend , the late Phil Hughes . Most of his team-mates played the Test against India in January ; others featured in Australia 's Carlton Mid Tri-series matches against England and India later that month ; but , on Sunday , when he walked out to toss , it will be the first time that he will figure in a match on the ground on which Hughes crumbled , face first on being hit by a bouncer in last November . " It 's in my mind every day. Does n't matter where I play. I wear an arm band every game with Hughesy 's initials on it. I do n't think it 'll be any different this game , to be honest. I think it 's going to be the same for the rest of my career , " he said on Saturday , when asked if all that happened at the SCG ( in the Sheffield Shield game in November ) will come back . " I look forward to , like I say , walking back out on the SCG. I love playing here. It 's a beautiful ground. It 's my home ground. I look forward to getting a bat and hopefully scoring some runs , helping us have success , " Clarke said , indicating that he was ready to deal with any emotional surge that he may feel as he steps out of the dressing room with his pads on . For all you know , he will also have to cope with the selectors ' decision on Watson. Whether they bring back Watson to the side at SCG , just one game after they dropped him for the match against Afghanistan in Perth , or continue to keep him on the sidelines , Clarke will have to go with that decision . " I 'm not a selector so I do n't know the answer to that , " he said when asked if Watson 's extended session at the batting net on Saturday meant that he could come back on Sunday. When persistently asked about the allrounder , Clarke 's response was quite straight-forward. " Whatever 11 the selectors give me I think I 'll get the best out of them , " he said . " I think I made it pretty clear how I felt about that in my newspaper column today. He 's a senior player on the team , he 's a valuable member on and off the field , and I believe he 's going to play a part , not just in this World Cup but for Australia for years to come , both on and off the field , " he said . Clarke has been known to be mentally strong , winning many a battle on the pitch. But his return to competitive cricket ahead of schedule has been put down not only to his work ethic as one of the most professional athletes in Australia but also his single-minded focus that allows him to be able to overcome stress . If Clarke can cross Sunday 's hurdles with the same comfort that he has dealt with the long flights from Auckland to Perth and from Perth to Sydney , he will have taken another step towards realising his dream of leading Australia to a World Cup conquest at home - after a battle with chief selector Rod Marsh , the cricket administration at large and his hamstring and back injuries . © Cricbuzz Tags
