Sangakkara to retire from Tests in August : Reports Sydney , Sun , Mar 08 2015 Last updated on Sunday , 08 March , 2015 , 03 : 51 AM Kumar Sangakkara is expected to retire from international cricket in August during the series against India . Sangakkara will retire from ODIs after the end of the 2015 World Cup . Kumar Sangakkara has been in prime form with the World Cup , scoring two centuries. He is expected to retire from Tests in August. © Getty With close to 14000 ODI runs , over 12000 Test runs at an average of 58.66 , there is no doubting that Kumar Sangakkara is one of the modern legends of Sri Lanka. In his 15-year playing career , Sangakkara has raked up plenty of records and his consistency across all formats is legendary. However , in what will be a huge blow for Sri Lanka , he has decided to end his international career. Sangakkara , who has been in great form in the World Cup with two centuries , is expected to retire from ODIs after the World Cup and has announced his decision to end his Test career in August . Speaking to The Nation , Sangakkara said he will play his farewell Test during the three-Test series against India in August. Before the series , Pakistan is expected to tour Sri Lanka for three Tests in June-July. He said , " There are Test matches in June and July and I will be done by the end of August. A series or two in June and in August and that 's it. I dont know whether I am top of my game. I just bat according to situations. During the New Zealand tour , it was the same thing I did n't have a good start in the first ODI but from the second onwards it was just a case of building on runs. " When asked about Sri Lanka 's current campaign in the World Cup , Sangakkara said the team has picked up momentum after a slow start. Sri Lanka lost their opening match to New Zealand in Christchurch and survived some shaky moments against Afghanistan but have recovered well to record thumping wins against Bangladesh and England . With Mahela Jayawardene retiring from international cricket after the end of the World Cup , Sangakkara 's exit in August leaves a huge void in the Sri Lankan line-up. However , he expressed confidence that the likes of Lahiru Thirimanne and Dinesh Chandimal will fill the breach admirably. He praised Thirimanne for his maturity and said he has a bright future ahead . " He batted beautifully and fought through some tough situations. He 's done a lot of hard work for the team and seems to be very impressive. Thiri is much better than where I was when I was his age , I think he can only get better and thats really exciting for us. He is definitely much better than I was at the same stage of my career , " he said after Thirimanne 's career-best knock of 139 against England in Wellington . He was optimistic about Chandimal despite the batsman 's prolonged slump with the bat. " Unfortunately he 's not had some good outings here. He batted really well in the last two games against England in Sri Lanka , came here and unfortunately was not in the side for the first 3-4 New Zealand games. Since then it 's been a tough come back for him. Technique or anything else its about scoring runs. Chandi has shown he has the ability to score runs especially against good attacks. Coming in the second Test at Wellington and batting at 85 for 5 and getting 70 odd was another tough knock under pressure. He has the ability to do that , he just needs be free and happy and keep getting opportunities. " When asked about what life after retirement holds for him , Sangakkara said , " Nothing really , play a little bit more cricket and wind down slowly and see whats there after I retire. " Sangakkara is expected to play county cricket for Surrey when the England domestic season starts in April . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
