Sri Lanka 's gallant chase pales before Maxwell 's brilliance Sydney , Sun , Mar 08 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Sunday , 08 March , 2015 , 12 : 23 PM Australia registered their third win in five matches. © AFP Glenn Maxwell 's maiden ODI century was of such brilliant quality that the entertaining chase by Sri Lanka , rallying around Kumar Sangakkara 's third successive century in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , was destined to come off second best at the electrifying Sydney Cricket Ground on Sunday . Maxwell came up with a perfect riposte to former Australia captain Ricky Ponting 's public comments that Australia 's idea of dropping Shane Watson and making Steve Smith bat at one-drop could have consequences as the middle-order lacked experience to counter good bowling attacks . Batting ahead of Watson , Maxwell slammed his way to 102 off 53 deliveries ( 10 fours , four sixes ) , responding admirably to the challenge of batting through close to 20 overs. An inside out drive over extra cover off a Lasith Malinga yorker was the best of his boundary hits , though a switch hit to third man off Angelo Mathews was a close second . Maxwell showed a range of strokes on a slow track as he caned the Sri Lankan attack , taking care not to attempt too many audacious shots against the pace and craft of Malinga. Other bowlers , less gifted to lift their incisiveness on a dead track , found him tough to bowl to and gave away plenty of runs as he either stepped out or went on his knees to hammer their deliveries . Maxwell shared a 160-run fifth-wicket partnership with Watson , who played second fiddle with a lot of maturity. The partnership ended hopes of Sri Lanka gaining control after they saw the backs of Michael Clarke and Smith in the space of five balls. Of course , the third-wicket pair played the Sri Lankan spinners well , using their feet to win the mental battle . Sri Lanka missed left-arm spinner Rangana Herath 's accuracy and their bowling inadequacies were sorely exposed as Malinga was the only bowler Australia played with any respect. The two spinners called in to do service on Sunday , Sachithra Senanayake and Seekkuge Prasanna were done in by the slow nature of the pitch . The Sri Lankan fans , who thronged the SCG , were left disappointed that Mathews ' fielders could not latch on catches after having made great efforts to get to the ball. They were treated to entertaining batting , except for one spell of seven when there were just two boundaries . Tillakaratne Dilshan 's assault - and there can not be any other word that can describe it - on Mitchell Johnson brought the crowd to its feet. Two straight drives , two in the arc between mid-wicket and long leg and two through the covers fetched him six fours in the over. A scoop off Shane Watson made it look like he would mastermind Sri Lanka 's chase . However , he was trapped in front by James Faulkner after he had made 62 off 60 deliveries ( eight fours ) . Though Sangakkara added 104 to the 104 not out against Bangladesh in Melbourne and 117 not out against England in Dunedin , Sri Lanka found Australia 's 376 a bridge far too big to cross. They were left hoping for a Maxwellesque display of pyrotechnics . After a tired Sangakkara sliced Faulkner to Aaron Finch at point in batting Powerplay , Mathews and Dinesh Chandimal tried to steam Sri Lanka back in the game but their team had been pegged back significantly during the 53-run third-wicket stand . Sangakkara and Mahela Jayawardene , playing their 150th innings together , scored at just over five and a half runs an over. Perhaps they were intent on consolidating and creating the stage for others to come and blast their way to victory. Sri Lanka would have been well served had they been a bit more attacking during their association that lasted 9.3 overs . The World Cup has already seen some spectacular centuries by more experienced batsmen like AB de Villiers and Chris Gayle but Maxwell 's maiden century made the difference in Sunday 's game like few of them have. After having played 44 ODI games over two and a half years , he at last kept his tryst with the magical milestone. He will not be alone in cherishing it a long time . The brass band in the Bill O'Reilly Stand stopped playing and the drums fell silent late in the evening when Sri Lanka fell behind by a great deal. After having matched the on-field batting entertainment , they also sat down to soak in Maxwell 's brilliance . Brief scores : Australia 376/9 ( Maxwell 102 ; Smith 72 , Clarke 68 , Watson 67 ; Malinga 2/59 ) beat Sri Lanka 312 all out 46.2 overs ( Sangakkara 104 ; Faulkner 3/48 ) by 64 runs © Cricbuzz Tags
