Clarke dispels stress and turns a crucial corner in leadership test Sydney , Sun , Mar 08 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Sunday , 08 March , 2015 , 02 : 44 PM Clarke impressed with his captaincy against Sri Lanka. © AFP He may be a beleaguered captain but showed up on Sunday as a leader. He may have been under some pressure for a variety of reasons , not all of it cricketing , but he held himself together , and dispassionately at that , in an emotional game at his home venue , the Sydney Cricket Ground . On a day when Glenn Maxwell played a blinder of a century and got the monkey off his back Kumar Sangakkara scored his third successive hundred , Tillakaratne Dilshan hammered Mitchell Johnson for six fours in an over and Steven Smith produced a gem of an innings at the top of the order , Clarke needed to do much more than just score a half-century . From winning the toss to letting Smith bat at No 3 , especially since a spinner was in operation , from getting 68 at a run-a-ball pace to letting Maxwell bat ahead of Watson , from ringing the bowling changes to giving everyone , including the opposition and the groundstaff , much credit , Clarke got everything right . It has not been his best home season , playing just one Test in the series against India and one ODI against South Africa as he battled a hamstring injury and then fixed it with a surgery. There was clamour against him being picked to lead Australia in the World Cup ; there was more criticism when he opted not to bat against Afghanistan in the last match . " I do n't feel stressed about what people write or say. It might have taken me a few years but over the years I have slowly learnt to ignore a lot of it and laugh at a lot of it. That is the only reason I am still playing this great game of cricket at the highest level. When I was younger , I took a lot more to heart , " Clarke said . " I think I am pretty honest with a lot of journalists. If I feel they are out of line or criticise me for something not true , I generally confront the journalist and ask the question why it is being said and voice my opinion , " he said " I also understand that people have jobs to do ; they have to sell newspapers ; they have to put channels on TV that are fighting to get people to watch , " Clarke said. " So I understand that it is part and parcel of playing sport at the highest level. I think if we can not take it personally , that is probably the best thing throughout my career. Sometimes it is hard but it helps. " The Australian captain did point out that he did not feel that he conquered a battle on Sunday. " I did that when I played club cricket a month ago [ for Western Suburbs against Gordon at the Chatswood Oval here ] , " he said , alluding to his return to 'competitive ' cricket barely six and a half weeks after surgery . For someone with 8432 runs in 108 Tests and 7842 runs in 241 ODIs , he really should have been cruising and not having to deal with any stress. But the 2014-15 season did not start too well , his having to fly to the United Arab Emirates a week before his team-mates to give himself more time to recover from the aftermath of long flights and runs-in with authority . He is hoping that his team-mates and he will be able to lay their hands on the ICC Cricket Wold Cup on March 29. Till then , besides the odd issue with what is being said or written about him , he has learnt to put thoughts of his problems with selectors and Cricket Australia at the back of his mind and focus single-mindedly on the task of leading his team, He chose his first match at the SCG in a while to show that he had turned a crucial corner . © Cricbuzz Tags
