Knock-out permutations and combination : Group A Sun , Mar 08 2015 by Gokul Gopal Last updated on Sunday , 08 March , 2015 , 05 : 48 PM New Zealand 's superb streak will see them enter the quarter-finals as the top-ranked team from Group A , while Australia too have made it to the knock-outs Sri Lanka are almost there while Bangladesh and England are fighting for a spot Bangladesh have a couple of chances to make it to the quarter-finals. © AFP New Zealand 's superb streak will see them enter the quarter-finals as the top-ranked team from Group A , while Australia too have made it to the knock-outs. Sri Lanka are almost there while Bangladesh and England are fighting for the last spot. Check out the current standings in Group A and what teams need to do to occupy the remaining two spots : 1. New Zealand Current Points : 10 ; NRR : 3.09 ; Matches remaining : 1 ; Yet to play : Bangladesh Having won five matches in a row , co-hosts New Zealand became the first team to qualify for the quarter-finals. They are firmly placed on top of the Group A table and will finish as table-toppers even if they lose their last game against Bangladesh on March 13 . 2. Australia Current Points : 7 ; NRR : 1.59 ; Matches remaining : 1 ; Yet to play : Scotland Australia became the second team from Group A to qualify for the quarter-final when they defeated Sri Lanka at the SCG. They are likely to finish second unless they lose to Scotland ( March 14 ) and Sri Lanka win against the same team ( March 11 ) . If Bangladesh win both their remaining matches and Australia also win against Scotland , both Australia and Bangladesh will be tied on 9 points. The team with the superior NRR will finish second in that event. In case their next match is a no-result , Australia will finish with 8 points , which will give an opportunity for Sri Lanka and Bangladesh to move above them . 3 , Sri Lanka Current Points : 6 ; NRR : -0.15 ; Matches remaining : 1 ; Yet to play : Scotland While they are likely to finish third in the group , there is a possibility of Sri Lanka being knocked out of the competition. For that to happen , Sri Lanka have to lose to Scotland , Bangladesh have to win against New Zealand and England have to win both their remaining games and finish with a higher NRR as compared to Sri Lanka. In case of a no-result , Sri Lanka will finish with 7 points , which will give an opportunity for Bangladesh to go above the Angelo Mathews-led side . 4. Bangladesh Current Points : 5 ; NRR : 0.18 ; Matches remaining : 2 ; Yet to play : England and New Zealand A win against England on March 9 will guarantee Bangladesh a place in the quarter-finals and even if they lose that game , they still have an opportunity to get through , provided they beat New Zealand. They will get knocked out of the competition in case they lose both their remaining matches. If the match against England finishes as a no-result , Bangladesh will go through to the next round. In case Bangladesh lose to England , England also beat Afghanistan and if Bangladesh 's match against New Zealand is a no-result , then Bangladesh and England will finish with 6 points apiece. This will bring NRR in the picture . 5. England Current Points : 2 ; NRR : -1.20 ; Matches remaining : 2 ; Yet to play : Bangladesh and Afghanistan England need to win both their remaining matches in order to make it to the quarters. Any other result in either of their matches will be the end of the World Cup campaign for the Eoin Morgan-led side . 6. Afghanistan Current Points : 2 ; NRR : -1.88 ; Matches remaining : 1 ; Yet to play : England Despite their spirited performance in the ongoing World Cup , Afghanistan do not have any chance of getting through to the next round. However , they can still play spoil-sport for England if they manage to pull off something special in the last match . 7. Scotland Current Points : 0 ; NRR : -1.42 ; Matches remaining : 2 ; Yet to play : Sri Lanka and Australia Without a single win so far , Scotland too do not have any chance of progressing to the next round. All Preston Mommsen 's side can now hope for is to pull off an upset or two and end their campaign on a high . © Cricbuzz
