McCullum 's aggressive captaincy 'contagious ' : Fleming Hamilton , Mon , Mar 09 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Monday , 09 March , 2015 , 01 : 15 PM Fleming felt that McCullum 's natural aggressive instincts had shaped his leadership. © AFP Brendon McCullum 's captaincy has won further praise from two of New Zealand cricket 's standout figures , Sir Richard Hadlee and Stephen Fleming , who both singled out his aggressive nature as having a big influence on the team. Fleming , New Zealand 's most successful captain and leading run-getter in Tests and ODIs , termed McCullum 's captaincy as being " contagious " while Hadlee termed it " special " . " The rave reviews he 's getting are right. I think he 's , over two years , helped built a brand of cricket that is aggressive , and in some ways it 's creating the new way to play the ODI game , " Fleming said at a media event at the Hobbiton movie set outside of Hamilton on Monday. " You 're now seeing Michael Clarke , also an excellent captain , do the same. And [ MS ] Dhoni as well. He 's had the bowlers to do it. It 's one thing to have that style , number two create a team that can back it up , and that 's what I think Brendon 's got. But it 's taken a while in the making , but I think you can see the fruits of it. " Fleming felt that McCullum 's natural aggressive instincts had shaped his leadership , which in turn was rubbing off on the rest of the New Zealand team. " A naturally aggressive guy , a gambler as well as that 's being talked about , but I think he 's better than that. I think it 's just an aggressive outlook where we want to hit every ball for six , and it 's obviously contagious , " he said. " You 've got guys who can get up , whereas in the past we 've been a little bit conservative. But now we 're seeing a team that 's ready to bleed runs to get wickets and that seems to be the way that the best teams are playing now. " Hadlee , New Zealand 's most successful fast bowler , was equally appreciative of McCullum 's leadership style and all-guns-blazing approach. " It 's fair to say , that in my career of 18 years through the 1970s and the 1980s , I did n't play under a captain as aggressive as Brendon , " he said. " When you 're aggressive and proactive , it can be high-risk and it can backfire. At this stage it has n't. But , what he is saying to his bowlers , and if I had a captain like that what he would be saying to me is , I back you. I 'll give you the field that you need to get wickets , and do the job. That would 've been nice in my time , although it did n't happen. I had some good captains , but Brendon is something a little bit special at the moment. " As New Zealand built up steam over the past year , winning series at home over India , Sri Lanka and Pakistan , and away in West Indies and UAE , comparisons with Martin Crowe 's World Cup side of 1992 grew. Many former New Zealand players have termed McCullum 's team as the best from New Zealand to enter a World Cup , and according to Fleming similarities are there . " What you saw in '92 was a captain who developed a brand of cricket with Martin Crowe and a group of players that he had , and that 's not dissimilar to what Brendon 's done with this group , " he said. " He 's obviously got a little bit more horsepower with this bowlers and some aggressive batters , but they 've worked on a game plan that they think can win games at the international level and totally believe in it. Crowe led by example , and Brendon 's doing that. Kane Williamson and others are coming along for the ride. " Asked as to what he saw differently with McCullum 's team compared to previous New Zealand sides at World Cups , Fleming spoke of the belief factor. " I think teams that I 've been involved with , we hoped that we could win the World Cup but I actually genuinely believe that this team has the belief it can win the World Cup. That 's the big difference , " he said. " You go out expecting to win games , expecting to win big games , expecting to win the Cup whereas we hoped the other team would n't have a good day. But I genuinely feel this team believes it can win it , and that 's exciting. " That New Zealand have qualified for the knock-outs owes immensely to the role that their bowlers have played. In the first game of the World Cup they bowled out Sri Lanka for 233 in 46.1 overs ; Scotland were rolled over for 142 in 36.2 overs ; England for 123 in 33.2 ; Australia for 151 in 32.2 ; and Afghanistan for 186 in 47.4 . The tournament 's top two wickets-takers are Trent Boult and Tim Southee with 13 apiece , followed by Daniel Vettori with 12. Assessing the bowling of the teams at the tournament , Hadlee rated New Zealand 's as No 1. " Our attack has proved they are the best in the world at the moment. Southee and Boult have 13 wickets each , Vettori has 12. We 've bowled sides out , " he said. " The fact that we have bowled five teams out suggests that our bowling attack is working particularly well. " © Cricbuzz
