Mashrafe Mortaza revels in historic win Mon , Mar 09 2015 Last updated on Monday , 09 March , 2015 , 04 : 51 PM Mortaza 's men ticked all the boxes against England. © AFP Bangladesh captain Mashrafe Mortaza was on cloud nine following his team 's shock win over England in the ICC World Cup on Monday - that also ensured its passage into the quarterfinals for the first time in history . After Mahmudullah , who became the first Bangladesh batsman to score a World Cup ton with 103 , and former captain Mushfiqur Rahim ( 89 ) added 141 runs for the fifth wicket to help the team post a competitive 275 for 7 , fast bowler Rubel Hossain took 4 for 53 to seal a historic 15-run win . " Feel very proud and a special thanks to the team management and coaching staff , and of course to the boys as well , " Mortaza enthused at the post-match presentation at the Adelaide Oval . " Thought the wicket was really good and we had to bowl well. In the start we were not so good , but in the middle we came back well. " Taking about the efforts of Mahmudullah , whose previous highest score was 82 , and Mushfiqur , who scored his third fifty this edition , Mortaza said : " Mahmudullah scored his first hundred for Bangladesh , and Mushfiqur was also brilliant at the end . " I think Rubel Hossain will be very happy now as he picked up four crucial wickets. Tamim [ Iqbal ] did feel really bad after that dropped catch [ dropped Chris Woakes in the 48th over ] , as he is one of our best fielders , but in the end it did n't matter . " Really happy for all those people back home who have wanted us to make it this far. This is for you guys. We had a good combination today , especially with the seven batsmen. They showed their guts today , and the bowlers then did a very good job. " An exultant Mahmudullah also shared his thoughts after picking up the Man-of-the-Match award. " Really impressed by the attitude of our boys. All the boys chipped in and everything went well. I was just trying to bat properly and not think too much. Soumya [ Sarkar ] batted really well , along with Mushy [ Mushfiqur ] , who was the aggressor towards the end , " the right-hander said . " We thought we were about 15-20 runs short initially , but we thought that if we got early wickets , then we were in with a chance. For us this victory is really special , and thank to all of the fans for supporting us. Tamim is one of the best fielders in our team , so a catch can be dropped in the match. The way Rubel bowled those last two balls [ cleaning up Stuart Broad and James Anderson ] , was just something really special. " © Cricbuzz Tags
