— Gaurav Sethi ( @ BoredCricket ) March 10 , 2015 Spin choke : Dhoni 's territory Ireland were 85/1 after 14 overs. Next seven overs bowled by Raina and Ashwin in tandem has yielded just 12 runs for 1 wicket. That is as much Dhoni 's territory as it is the spinner 's. If you know how the Indian captain operates this should n't surprise you. The bowlers are bowling to the field. The fielders in the circle have been sharp. The odd ball has spun past the bat and over the stumps. Lots off oohs and aahs. False bravado as the batsman steps out and tries to hoick but gets an edge . Dhoni revels in this. And for some strangely beautiful reason the stump mic has been turned on a notch today. Can hear a lot more of what Dhoni 's saying now. Maybe they should just do that for all games , right ? Mute the comms and turn on the mics ! At least let us have that option . Oh , by the way , Porterfield just crawled past his fifty of 65 balls. He was going at run-ball for his first 30-odd runs. Totally overlooked that. Ashwin 's spin has been mesmerising to say the least. Just 19 runs given away and he 's finished 8 overs now ! When did we last see a spinner manipulate with such lovely loop and angles ? Beautiful . Rohit Sharma into the attack Dhoni pretty quick to change ends. Feels like a Test match in India , running through overs . — Subash Jayaraman ( @ thecricketcouch ) March 10 , 2015 Raina chimes in Ed Joyce was cleaned up by Raina but it was the pressure built by Ashwin at the other end that got him as much as Raina 's skidder. Dhoni had no choice but to take Jadeja out of the attack and try Raina out for a bit. Fortunately for him , it clicked. Ashwin bowled a series of dot balls to Joyce in the previous over , even though he was trying to come down the track. Raina was on target as well and Joyce chose the wrong ball to try and cut. Stumps flattened . Spin strike : Ashwin ends 89-run opening stand Ashwin has taken his bowling up a notch in the World Cup. After a series of floaters and arm-balls , Stirling was beautifully done in by the flight. Ashwin gave it a lot of air. Stirling stretched out but was clearly fooled by the length and ended up chipping it to long off. Looks a tame shot but full credit to Ashwin for that wicket . Spin talk 'Aage se marne de.' That was Dhoni imploring Jadeja to make Stirling play straight down the ground. Next ball. Short. Pulled over the mid-wicket boundary . 'Aaaaaage seeeee ' pleads a frustrated Dhoni. Jadeja has gone for 20 in his first 3 overs. Ashwin has been much better. No spin on offer but he 's getting that drift going again. Arm ball as well . Ireland bossing it 60/0 after the first 10 overs. Spin on from both ends now and Dhoni is still looking for wickets. Ashwin in with a slip and a leg slip. A run-out chance was scuffed but apart from that both Porterfield and Stirling have been the first opening pair to cause India any trouble in this World Cup . That 's another angle to it First time in tournament... # IND spinners dont have cushion of early wickets. # CWC15 # IndvsIre — Chetan Narula ( @ chetannarula ) March 10 , 2015 India 's bowling : Here and there India 's bowling , at least for the first three overs , has not been of the same quality or standard that they 've set for themselves in this tournament. Shami drifted down the legside twice in a row while Umesh 's short ball was adroitly pulled into the stands by Porterfield. Not going to be easy. Mohit Sharma talked about altering lines to suit the smaller New Zealand grounds after playing in Australia. Ringing true now . Great start from Porterfield and Stirling though. Both look completely at ease against the pacers. Reckon we will see spin soon. Very soon . Agreed This is a whole new ball game for India. A new country , almost a new tour. New pitches. New lengths , adjustments. Banana peel all in all . — cricketingview ( @ cricketingview ) March 10 , 2015 Toss : Ireland opt to bat Big game for Ireland and William Porterfield was happy to bat first. MS Dhoni reckoned that the pitch would have something for the spinners. He was also happy to be chasing as India have set targets a few times before in the tournament. No change to India 's winning combination . Stuart Thompson is highly regarded by Ireland coach , Phil Simmons. He gets a game today. More on him here . MS Dhoni is on the cusp of beating Sourav Ganguly 's record of consecutive World Cup wins. Ganguly , on air , smiles it off like anyone would in the public eye. Stresses how good a captain Dhoni has been in the shorter formats. Noted , Sourav . Teams : India ( Playing XI ) : Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , Suresh Raina , MS Dhoni ( w/c ) , Ravindra Jadeja , Ravichandran Ashwin , Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav , Mohit Sharma Ireland ( Playing XI ) : William Porterfield ( c ) , Paul Stirling , Ed Joyce , Andrew Balbirnie , Niall O'Brien , Gary Wilson ( w ) , Kevin O'Brien , John Mooney , George Dockrell , Alex Cusack , Stuart Thompson Setting the mood Must be a big game on today ! The # IND and # IRE superfans are out in force ! 10 mins to first ball ! # INDvIRE pic.twitter.com/0F4G1wTRkS — Cricket World Cup ( @ cricketworldcup ) March 10 , 2015 Build-up : In-form India up against energetic Ireland Having won four on the trot , India will be keen not to let the momentum slip when they take on the energetic Ireland side in match 34 of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015. While India are looking good to end the group stage as table-toppers , Willam Porterfield 's team are in a desperate battle with Pakistan and West Indies to secure one of the two remaining qualifying spots . On a small ground , getting the lengths right will be massive. India 's pace attack has performed very well in keeping teams to small totals - only once has an opposition scored more than 200 against them in the tournament - and against Ireland 's batsmen , who are used to playing in seam-friendly conditions in the UK , they can be expected to use the same approach . India have most bases covered. They have bowled and fielded beyond expectation , Shikhar Dhawan rediscovered his touch , Virat Kohli marked his second World Cup with a fine century and MS Dhoni has led well. Mohammad Shami , Mohit Sharma , Umesh Yadav and R Aswhin have taken 30 of the 40 wickets , but the lower middle order is a bit undercooked. Suresh Raina , after a bullish 74 against Pakistan , has scored 28 runs in two innings , both times dismissed mistiming short balls. Ravindra Jadeja was called out by Dhoni in Perth to step up as a batsman - he has made 18 runs in three innings - which could throw into the mix Stuart Binny should India opt to rest Jadeja. Ireland also have a pretty balanced line-up , but Kevin O'Brien and Paul Stirling 's poor form in their recent matches is a concern . India and Ireland have met just twice in ODIs. In 2007 , India beat them by nine wickets in Belfast and then during the 2011 World Cup in Bangalore , by five wickets. India 's record at Seddon Park is two wins out of eight , dating back to 1981. Last year , they lost both matches here to New Zealand. Ireland have never played at the venue . © Cricbuzz
