Chandimal ruled out of 2015 World Cup Hobart , Tue , Mar 10 2015 Last updated on Tuesday , 10 March , 2015 , 03 : 29 AM Dinesh Chandimal has been ruled out of the 2015 World Cup due to a hamstring injury . This is the fifth injury for Sri Lanka Dinesh Chandimal has been ruled out of the 2015 World Cup due to a hamstring injury he sustained during the match against Australia in Sydney. © AFP Sri Lanka 's injury woes have piled up in the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup with Dinesh Chandimal now ruled out of the tournament due to a hamstring strain. Chandimal , who had smashed 52 off 24 balls against Australia in Sydney and was getting his team closer to the target of 377 , retired hurt after he tweaked his hamstring . According to a report on ESPNcricinfo , Kushal Janith Perera is expected to come into the Sri Lankan squad and if he features in the XI , then he will bat in the middle order . Perera , who has batted as an opener for the past two years , endured a torrid time in the five-ODI series against India and in the seven-match series against England at home. In the series against India , he made just four runs from three games while against England , he started off brightly with 59 but ended up with just 40 runs in the next four games . Coach Marvan Atapattu confirmed that Perera , who has been training with the squad in Australia for the past week , will be added for the game against Scotland in Hobart on Wednesday. According to ICC regulations , any injury or illness-based replacement requires a written submission to the Event Technical Committee along with a diagnosis from a medical practitioner as to the extent of the injury or illness. Once replaced , a player may not return to the squad save as an approved subsequent replacement for another injured or ill player . Chandimal 's injury is the fifth injury to hit the Sri Lankan team in the World Cup. Dhammika Prasad was ruled out with a stress fracture on the back before the start of the tournament while Dimuth Karunaratne and Jeevan Mendis were injured during the tournament. Rangana Herath split a webbing on his left hand during the clash against England in Wellington and he missed the game against Australia. He is also expected to miss Sri Lanka 's last league game against Scotland tomorrow . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
