India bowlers execute well as they operate on Revival Avenue Sydney , Tue , Mar 10 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Tuesday , 10 March , 2015 , 06 : 53 AM R Ashwin 's ability to lift his bowling in these conditions has made a massive difference to the quality of the Indian attack in the World Cup. © Getty There has to be something about a bowling unit that most were afraid to brand as an 'attack ' at the start of the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup. In the space of three weeks , they have bowled out the opposition in five consecutive matches , causing many fans and connoisseurs to pinch themselves in disbelief. Led by Mohammed Shami and R Ashwin , India 's bowlers have punched above their weight . Bowling in familiar conditions , New Zealand are the only other team that have managed to claim all 50 wickets in their matches so far. Not even the renowned attacks of Australia and South Africa have managed such a clean slate when it comes to bowling rivals out. It is a dream that all of India will not want to end in a hurry . MS Dhoni has been able to get the bowlers to employ the learnings from the most recent experiences when they are at work. Of course , Shami and Ashwin have executed the plans very well , with Mohit Sharma not very distant when it comes to using the information at his disposal and hitting the right length and bringing his variations of pace into play . Some credit must be given to the work turned in by assistant coach Bharat Arun and video analyst Sandeep Raj Anand. Each time India have sought and got to train on centre pitches , Arun has stood in the middle with every set of bowlers , offering them a gentle word of advice. Sandeep Raj Anand 's work is primarily in the backroom , helping the coaching staff with research . It will also be unfair to overlook the way the bowlers have been managed by the team management , unmindful of some criticism. For example , Shami was rested during the hastily arranged ODI series against Sri Lanka in India earlier this season. Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Ishant Sharma have been other beneficiaries of such watchful treatment , with different results . The fast bowlers ' discipline has been exceptional , perhaps an awareness that they have to deliver their best at the biggest stage making them realise the importance of discipline on tracks from which they extract some help. Their use of the short-pitched delivery as a weapon has been remarkable , with Shami and Mohit Sharma finding success . For all that , Shami ( 12 wickets ) and Ashwin ( 11 ) have been India 's spearheads in India 's World Cup campaign so far. Only New Zealand pacers Trent Boult ( 13 ) and Tim Southee ( 13 ) are ahead of Shami. New Zealand left-arm spinner Daniel Vettori and Australian paceman Mitchell Starc have taken 12 wickets each to be a notch above Ashwin . Mohit Sharma , Umesh Yadav and Ravindra Jadeja , who has seemingly been charged with the task of containing the run flow , have all claimed seven victims and have all played their parts in making the Indian bowling look not only settled but also effective. Suresh Raina has chipped in with a few good overs as well when his captain has thrown him the ball . Since he made his ODI debut over two years ago , Shami has been India 's most attacking bowler he has the best strike rate among bowlers who have taken at least 50 wickets. India have looked around , quite unsuccessfully , for wicket-taking bowlers when he was rested because of injury or he has been less than incisive . There is no denying the fact that Shami 's return to wicket-taking ways has been a key driver. But , it is Ashwin 's ability to lift his bowling in these conditions and with the Kookaburra ball that has made a massive difference to the quality of the Indian attack. His adopting an aggressive approach has helped him achieve that . As the team moves to Auckland for a game against Zimbabwe and then to Melbourne on March 19 for their potential quarter-final against Bangladesh , it is clear that Shami and Ashwin will have to continue to take wickets with Mohit Sharma and Umesh Yadav playing the supporting role while Jadeja has come to be a primary restrictive option . For a unit that seemed to be on 'Hopeless Drive ' , it has now hauled itself to operate on 'Revival Avenue'. And that has been India 's unexpected story in the World Cup so far . © Cricbuzz Tags
