Dhoni and spinners apply the squeeze , India style Hamilton , Tue , Mar 10 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Tuesday , 10 March , 2015 , 10 : 58 AM Dhoni 's strategy with the spinners was spot on , after his three quicker bowlers had a rare bad start. © Getty It was hot , the pitch was pretty flat , the spinners weaved a web around the opposition batsmen , the dhols throbbed in the stands and Yo Yo Honey Singh and Bryan Adams blared on the PA system. But this was n't Delhi , Mumbai or Bangalore. It was Hamilton , but such was the mood on Tuesday that it was impossible to not feel it was a game that India were going to dominate . Losing the toss had little bearing on the defending champions ' progress , because once MS Dhoni turned to spin after his three quicker bowlers had a rare bad start , the tone had been set for a rather Indian sort of day. There was hardly any purchase from the Seddon Park track and that , following the failed short-pitched approach by Umesh Yadav and Mohammed Shami , was enough for Dhoni to switch into India mode. That is , to shuffle around his slow-bowling options to lower Ireland 's scoring rate and dry up boundaries. Rotate the bowlers , set smart fields , and hope the bowlers and fielders reciprocate. Or , as Dhoni termed it after the match : " Adapting to the conditions. " India 's fast bowlers have made inroads early in every match , but today was the first time that an opposition team 's openers made such a strong start. It forced Dhoni to change his plans , and the flexibility of having four spinning options helped him. And , most importantly , the chosen men responded to Dhoni 's change of plans - a fact that the Indian captain admitted afterwards made his job much easier . R Ashwin has bowled well all tournament and continued his good work with an eight-over opening spell from which 19 runs came for the wicket of Paul Stirling , lulled into a chip to long-off off the final ball of the 15th over. As Ireland captain William Porterfield admitted after the match , Ashwin varied his pace well and stymied the batting , which in turn led to Stirling 's wicket and a switch into safety mode after that . From here , India pulled things back from Ireland with spin. From the end of the 15th over to the start of the 30th , Ireland scored 45 runs. Dhoni got through those 15 overs in 45 minutes. With Ashwin running through his overs for nothing , Ireland started to dwindle. The wicket of Ed Joyce , centurion in the previous match , dented them further. Dhoni employed a square leg , midwicket , mid-on and fine leg. Ashwin bowled middle and off. A few sweeps went to fielders. Porterfield 's strike rate dipped. Niall O'Brien made his first two runs from 19 balls. The game was moving India 's way swiftly . When Dhoni called back Mohit Sharma to bowl the 31st over , the pressure built up by the spinners apparently told on Porterfield , who tried to manufacture a shot and perished. It was a fine exhibition of bowling stump to stump , varying the length and cutting off the angles. Dhoni got 30 overs out of four slow bowlers at the cost of 144 runs and for four overs. Between them , Ashwin , Jadeja and Raina bowled 89 dot balls in 27 overs . " I 'm best [ as a captain ] when the bowlers are bowling well. It makes the job slightly easy for me because you have a plan , " said Dhoni when giving credit to his spinners. " But unless it 's executed well it can make you look like a good captain , but at the same time it can look like what is it doing , because it all depends on execution. You may have two slips , but if the bowler bowls on the pads , it does n't really look good. I feel that 's where the remarkable difference has come from the bowlers ' end. They 're bowling according to the plans. At the same time they 're quite aware of the field and they 're bowling according to the field , which is a big change. " With the pitch playing slow , Dhoni went for Raina and Rohit Sharma. Rohit 's three overs cost 21 , but getting Raina to concede just 40 runs in ten overs was critical for Dhoni. This was the first time since last August that Raina had bowled a full quota , and only the third time in 212 ODIs that he was given that opportunity. Getting Joyce bowled cheaply clearly boosted Raina immensely , and thereafter he operated off a tidy line. There were just three fours off his bowling. Eking the most out of players has been a mantra of Dhoni 's , as well as giving them room to feel appreciated . " Suresh , whenever he 's got a bit of a spell , he 's proven himself to be a proper bowler. So it was good. He also got a game , a proper bowling spell of 10 overs. So I felt it 's not experimenting , it 's more about using the resources that we have , " said Dhoni . After a tidy opening spell , Ashwin was brought back during the batting Powerplay and gave 17 runs in 11 balls , but off his final ball he had Andy Balbirnie caught at short fine leg off a top-edge sweep. He finished with 2 for 38 , a big contribution to India chasing 259 instead of 290 or 300 . " He 's someone that I always love to have , the reason being I always pushed him to bowl in the Powerplays and even have used him whenever I 'm in difficult situations. So he is really confident about his bowling. He understands his bowling well , " said Dhoni of Ashwin. " I believe he in the last few foreign tours he 's learned a lot. The good thing with him is he keeps improving himself. Every time he 's part of a series , he sees the challenges and accordingly he improves. So it 's obviously good to have him , and it 's good to see him bowl really well. " India 's bowling performance drew Dhoni to hail his team as " special " , and this is was a good workout before the quarter-finals. On a very Indian day in un-Indian Hamilton , things fell in place for Dhoni. Days like this , low-key though they may seem for a team that came here with four wins in a row and their place in the knockouts secured , can often leave a lot to be gleaned from. India 's spinners achieved plenty today , and allowed Dhoni to leave the venue a pleased man . © Cricbuzz Tags
