Porterfield disappointed at Ireland wickets flow Hamilton , Tue , Mar 10 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Tuesday , 10 March , 2015 , 11 : 38 AM Ireland lost last seven wickets for 53 runs. © AFP William Porterfield , the Ireland captain , was left to rue a clutch of wickets in the back end of their innings against India at Seddon Park on Tuesday , which turned a potential total of 300 into 259 all out in 49 overs. Defeat to India by eight wickets with 79 balls remaining means that Ireland have to beat Pakistan to have a shot at reaching the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup quarter-finals . After he won the toss and chose to bat , Porterfield contributed alongside Paul Stirling to put up 89 , Ireland 's best start of the tournament. But after Stirling fell for 42 from 41 balls to R Ashwin , the run rate dipped and the lack of runs forced Porterfield to manufacture a shot at the first sight of pace , which left Niall O'Brien and Andy Balbirnie to mount a fightback. They did well to put on 70 , but once Balbirnie top-edged Ashwin 's last delivery of the innings , Ireland lost six wickets for 53 runs . " We lost two quick wickets there , and we came out of the first ten , and we had 12 or 13 overs , I 'm not sure when it was , we lost a couple quick wickets then , and that slowed us down slightly , " said Porterfield. " But we managed to pick that up again coming down the back end in the 30th over , and now we had a bit of a platform to go again. And every time we started to pick up a bit of momentum we managed to lose a wicket , which is slightly disappointing. But I like that our lads came in and played with freedom and intense from the off , which I think you need to do , and you have to have that confidence , and the confidence was there in the changes to back lads to go ahead and do that. We kept managing to losing wickets which kept us back from kicking on to what would have been a competitive total. " Ireland 's batting has been their strongest feature , because the lack of a proper fast bowler or a fifth bowler has left them chasing 305 , 279 and 412. On the two occasions they 've batted first , Ireland defended 331 by just five runs and were hammered by India today after posting 259. Porterfield admitted the bowling was n't up to scratch , and that dropping centurion Shikhar Dhawan twice early in India 's chase did n't help . " We do n't have lads at the minute coming in bowling 90 clicks , which a lot of sides do , " he said. " The lads have great skills , and what we do have , we 've come up on a very flat wicket. You see the way their lads played. I think it 's just a very good pitch in what is a small ground and defending an under par total and that makes it very difficult. Once lads get a start , it 's very hard to claw away. We had a couple chances there at the start , we probably should have taken that off Dhawan , and he 's probably on 10 or 12 then and that makes a big difference. You take that and you nick another one off , and all of a sudden you 're 20 for 2 , and that puts them under pressure instead of getting away for 70 for none after 10 on a very good pitch. " Yet denying India a wicket until the final ball of the 15th over - the toughest start the defending champions have had in the World Cup - gave Porterfield reason to feel pleased with one aspect of the loss . " Most definitely. We 've been confident with the batting throughout , and the highest score against India in this competition as well. That 's good for ourselves , " he said. " I think that we played very well and for long periods of that game there today with the bat , but it just shows how you 've got to be the way India batted there. Once you get that start , you 've got to really kick on and score hundreds. " A lack of opportunities to play against Full Member teams has been a theme Porterfield has spoken of before , and once again he was left to answer a question on the lack of exposure. " We 've played nine ODIs against top eight of the top ten teams in the last four years in between World Cups , which is not a lot when you consider a lot of countries are playing 25 , 30 plus a year , " he said. " So that 's disappointing from our point of view , to not get that experience and get those games under our belts. " © Cricbuzz Tags
