Indian fans add to pressure on rival teams Hamilton , Tue , Mar 10 2015 Last updated on Tuesday , 10 March , 2015 , 03 : 07 PM Though the capacity of 10,000 made it a smaller venue than other World Cup grounds , Seddon Park was covered in sea of Indian flags Every single game that India have played in the World Cup has been like a home game for them Seddon Park was covered in sea of Indian flags and shirts. © AFP This small , pristine town in the heart of New Zealand 's North Island was playing host to a unique India-Ireland game in the Cricket World Cup. The two nations , one an Associate and the other a Full Member of the ICC , have not played very many matches against one another . Nonethless , doing anything along with the Irish is filled with fun , music , laughter and a whole lot of beer ! They are a fun , relaxed bunch who enjoy their sport. They were happier to see the fate of the English team and called themselves Europe 's No 1 team . They knew they were up against a strong India but their fans did not reflect that in their celebrations. They cheered a four , a six , a good piece of fielding or a wicket irrespective of whether it was an Indian or an Irish player who was worthy of the accolades . The Irish were dressed in some colourful creative costumes and enjoyed mingling and dancing with the Indians fans. It made for a fun afternoon of cricket watching and fan bonding. Having watched a couple of games in Sydney now , I wish the Australian fans would take a leaf out of the Irish book and be welcoming of cricket fans in general . The Indian support came from all corners of the world. I happened to chat with fans from San Francisco , Seattle and India. Though the capacity of 10,000 made it a smaller venue than other World Cup grounds , it was covered in sea of Indian flags and shirts. As usual the drums and the conches were out in full force which made the dancing inevitable . Every single game that India have played in the World Cup has been like a home game for them and I am now starting to see the effect it has had on the spirit and the energy of the Indian team. It is such a stark contrast from the tri-series and one can start to see the power the Indian fan holds . The Irish were dressed in some colourful creative costumes and enjoyed mingling and dancing with the Indians fans. © Cricbuzz The Indian team has been on the road for almost four months now and living out of suitcases , surely longing to be home with their families and friends but it is the Indian supporters who are plugging the gap with their incredible backing of this Indian team. The team is riding the wave and the energy the fans are bringing to each game and are using it to great advantage . I have been travelling in Australia and New Zealand for over a month now , hopping from city to city. The airport transfers , checking in and out of various hotels or bed and breakfast places has been exhausting. I am not even playing a game every week . And I can not even begin to imagine how the players have to cope with the demands of travelling , besides the pressure of meeting fans , signing autographs and completing team commitments. It must take an extreme amount of focus , concentration and dedication to show up at a game and give it your 100 per cent. Hats off to the players for dealing with this . The World Cup is about to take an intense turn with the quarterfinals looming and the pressure of knockout games coming into play. There is a small margin of error as one mistake can potentially knock a team out of the tournament . The Indian fan will remain a pivotal factor in building pressure on the opposition. So the Indian fans will conserve their voices and energy as they will be needed it in ample measure in the not so distant future . ( Aanshul Gulati is a Seattle-based professional who balances life between being a Strategic Sourcer for a leading telecom company and an itinerant cricket fan ) © Cricbuzz
