Treating this as a must-win game : AB de Villiers Wellington , Wed , Mar 11 2015 Last updated on Wednesday , 11 March , 2015 , 11 : 01 AM © Getty AB de Villiers says his South African side are geared up for their " must-win " ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Group B match against the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) in Wellington on Thursday. A win will guarantee that the Proteas finish second in Group B , and sets up a quarter-final clash against the third-placed team in Group A , which at this stage could be either Sri Lanka or Bangladesh . " It 's a very important game , " De Villiers said at the Basin Reserve on Wednesday , the Proteas ' training venue in Wellington this week. " We have to win it. It 's not a 'maybe we 'll win it ' kind of game. It 's a must-win for us. We 'd really like to get to eight points and make sure we finish second in the group , that 's the plan for now. I would n't like to get too technical about it ( areas to work on ) but there are a few guys that I 'd like to get into form tomorrow. It will be a good exercise once again for our bowlers to make sure they hit the hard lengths and do the basics really well. But all-round , I 'd just like a good solid performance. " De Villiers says the plan is to play their strongest possible XI , but that will be determined by the injury status of Vernon Philander and Faf du Plessis. " If the guys are ready , I 'd like to play a good strong team tomorrow , " he said. " Vernon we know is very close to 100 percent , if not 100 percent. We 'll just have a final look tomorrow morning , it would be nice to give him a go if he is ready. Faf is struggling with a little bit of a lower-back stiffness that he 's been looking after for a few months now. We 're not 100 percent sure about him and his fitness for tomorrow , but once again , those are the two guys we 'll assess tomorrow morning before making a final decision. " ABD added that the squad is focusing on the " now " despite a looming quarter-final next week , and have placed all their focus on the encounter at the Wellington Stadium on Thursday. " We 've got to win our game first , otherwise we might actually play Australia in Adelaide , " he said. " There are quite a few options , we 'd just like to focus on tomorrow and make sure we have a good win. From there on , we 'll see where we go in the quarters and start planning accordingly. Whoever we play , I believe we 've got the right squad here to come out on top. " De Villiers was at a loss to explain the Pakistan defeat and said he wanted to see an improvement against the UAE. " Nothing was really happening at 100 percent , " de Villiers said after the 29-run loss. " It was almost like a car that 's been stuck in second or third gear. That 's not going to win you cricket games , especially not under pressure and in big tournament 's like this. So we need to have a chat about what maybe went wrong... and try to get to fifth gear again against the UAE. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
