Belief and enjoying cricket key to our bid : Sangakkara Wed , Mar 11 2015 Last updated on Thursday , 12 March , 2015 , 05 : 13 AM Sangakkara has piled up 496 runs in six matches so far. © AFP After guiding Sri Lanka to another big ICC World Cup win on Wednesday , Kumar Sangakkara has asked his team-mates to keep enjoying their cricket and not think too far. Thanks to his fourth consecutive century of the tournament - also an ODI record - Sri Lanka , playing their last group game , brushed aside Scotland by 148 runs for a fourth win in six matches . Chasing Sri Lanka 's 363 for 9 at Hobart , the Scots were bowled out for 215 in 43.1 overs and Sangakkara , who will quit ODIs after the World Cup , is happy with the way his team is playing in his last few ODI appearances . " It was a pretty good game. It was important we finished off strong , especially when playing a team like Scotland. We could have got complacent , but we came in and put up the necessary fight , " Sangkkara said in the post-match presentation . Talking about the exceptional form that has seen him pile up 496 runs at a biblical average of 124.00 , the elegant left-hander said : " Once you get used to a certain routine [ wicketkeeping and batting in ODIs ] , it is n't so bad , but now that I am 37 , the joints are creaking. I consider myself lucky to be part of such a good side. Sometimes things just fall in place. Everything clicks. No matter how hard you try to find that one thing , it becomes difficult. I am not sure what that one thing is , but it is definitely working for me at the moment , so hopefully I can keep onto it. " With Australia favourites to beat Scotland and take the second spot in Pool A on Saturday , Sri Lanka will most likely play against South Africa , favourites to finish second in Pool B. When asked about the potential quarter-final against the Proteas and beyond , Sangakkara did n't give away much and rather stressed the importance of " not thinking too far. " " As long as we enjoy ourselves and believe we can do it , then we can go far. The squad has changed a bit from the start , and we have had a lot of injuries. The key for us is the way we enjoy our cricket. As long as there is a smile on our face , then that is what matters most , " he said . " Would love to see myself , and all of us , on the winning podium , but you ca n't want it too much. Just need to keep focused on the present and work hard each day. We are just concentrating on the quarter-final and semi-final thereafter. " © Cricbuzz Tags
