Do n't think I 'll be out : Mathews after Achilles injury Wed , Mar 11 2015 Last updated on Wednesday , 11 March , 2015 , 02 : 06 PM Sri Lanka are likely to play South Africa in the quarterfinals. © AFP Sri Lanka fans would take a big sigh of relief after captain Angelo Mathews confirmed his Achilles injury picked up during the team 's 148-run win over Scotland on Wednesday was n't likely to rule him out of the remainder of the ICC World Cup . The allrounder after scoring a 21-ball 51 did n't come out to field and this fuelled speculation. Sri Lanka have already lost a few players to injury and losing the captain could have been the biggest blow considering the tournament is just days away from the knockouts. However , Mathews dismissed any such notions in the post-match presentation . " I 've got a sore Achilles tendon , so management thought it would be wise for me to stay out of the field as a precautionary measure. I do n't think I will be out , but we will have to assess it over the next couple of days , " Mathews said . Sri Lanka 's win was set up by centuries from Kumar Sangakkara and Tillakaratne Dilshan , and Mathews was all praise for the veteran duo. " I think the boys played really well. Credit goes to Sangakkara and Dilshan. Sangakkara is getting better with every game , " he said . " We just have to take one game at a time and then play positive cricket , which we have done pretty well in the past few games. Got to keep playing the same kind of game. If we can improve our bowling and fielding quite a bit it would be a great thing going forward. " Meanwhile , Scotland captain Preston Mommsen , whose fourth-wicket 118-run with Freddie Coleman provided the Scottish chase with some buoyancy , was gracious in defeat and said watching Dilshan and Sangakkara was a great learning experience . " Freddie [ Coleman ] and I got a nice partnership there. Gave us a nice platform. Sad we could n't push harder and get it closer. It was hard not to go on and get a bigger score. Today was a huge learning experience , especially watching some of the best batsmen in the world. Saw how they kept their calm under pressure , so we could learn a lot , " Mommsen said . " Sangakkara is definitely No. 1 in terms of the players we have had to play against. This is the level , this is the standard we want to compete at. We want to compete against Full Members more often. Today was a brilliant day for learning. " © Cricbuzz Tags
