England have been stupid to think ODIs have n't moved forward : Vaughan Sydney , Wed , Mar 11 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Thursday , 12 March , 2015 , 01 : 44 AM I was surprised that Freddy Flintoff lasted longer in the jungle ( in a reality show ) than the England team did in the World Cup : Vaughan. ( Pic courtesy G Rajaraman ) © Cricbuzz He hid his eyes behind the aviators but the lens were not so dark as to let us decipher that he was hurting. Michael Vaughan , who had led a revival of the England team across the Test and ODI formats , winning 26 of the 51 Tests , including an Ashes series , and 32 of the 60 ODIs he was captain of the teams in , is hurting that England have exited the ICC Cricket World Cup from the first round without a fight . " I am surprised that when I arrived in Sydney on Monday morning , I saw the England going the other way , " he said , at an ICC event in the western suburbs of Paramatta to promote England 's final group A league game with Afghanistan. " I was surprised that Freddy Flintoff lasted longer in the jungle ( in a reality show ) than the England team did in the World Cup. " Here in Australia as a TV commentator , Vaughan is clear that England have made plenty of mistakes off and on the field. He believes the England and Wales Cricket Board 's ( ECB ) decision to not back the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) has led to the absence of cricketers who were unafraid to take risks. He is hopeful that England would be shaken up from the time warp they are cocooned in . Excerpts from an interview : You are hurting are you not ? Yeah , I am passionate about England. I care about the team. When you see them under-perform so badly and it is not just the way they played , it is the way they were prepared to play. It is the way we have been stupid in our approach to think that the game has n't moved forward and the way that England was playing was always going to be competitive. Even if England had performed well in this World Cup , it was miles short of where the other teams are in ODI cricket in this era. It is a different brand , a different mindset required. And I reckon in the last six months , there has been this massive step. And England has seen the step but ignored it , almost pretended that it has not been there . If you look at the actual players they have picked , it is very defensive. They had ( Alex ) Hales waiting in the wings and they did n't pick him. The likes of Ben Stokes was n't even in the squad. I do n't think England would have won the World Cup. They had a free hand because no one expected anything. But they might as well have had a very good go. I think we would have all been pretty calm with them. But they did n't and picked some defensive players. The batting order that looked more accustomed to Test form rather than 50-over cricket. I believe you should pick 50-over cricket over the Twenty20 format. Other teams seem to be doing that. England have been left behind , unfortunately . ECB Managing Director Paul Downton has said the players did not perform well There is a collective responsibility to take the blame. Everyone has to hold their hands up. The selection was n't right. Coaching ca n't have been right because England , tactically , were behind other teams. And the players should also be responsible for not getting their own games in order. Not taking the risks that they should have done. They should have been a bit more fearless and taken on the opposition more. Some senior players are there. Ian Bell , for one. ( Eoin ) Morgan. ( Stuart ) Broad and ( James ) Anderson have n't been at the races. The players have to take responsibility. But England have had 18 months to prepare for this , the last six months non-stop in one-day cricket. So when I hear things like 'We do n't focus on one-day cricket enough ' , I think that is a little bit naive. England have focussed on one-day cricket. They just do n't have the players playing as well as possibly they can. This group of players is a damn sight better than what I have seen. I really believe they have a lot of talent in that group. It just has n't come out. So that is a concern . Do you see a churning happening within ECB ? I think there will be a change in the structure around the game but it looks like it would be too late by the time it is created in 2017. The World Cup is in 2019. That 's two years. For years , many ex-players have been saying that our players need exposure to the IPL and to the Big Bash. But our Board has not allowed that . Do you agree that they should be allowed to play IPL ? Absolutely. They should have been allowed to play five years ago. I am a big believer in Twenty20 cricket. I think it is rejuvenating cricket and I think our players need to be exposed to that , particularly the bowlers. There is a lot of talk about the batting but our bowlers need to be exposed to the likes of MS Dhoni more often , the likes of Maxwell more often rather than bowling them once in a blue moon and get surprised by that. I think it is something that the game ( in England ) will look at. I think it ( more England players becoming available to play in IPL ) will happen. It has to happen . The problem with English cricket is that is reactive rather than proactive. In 2007 , we had an opportunity to get involved with the IPL and the Champions League. But we did n't take it. We took an opportunity from a guy called Allen Stamford. That really cost English cricket. That would have allowed England to be a part of the Champions League , our players to be a part of IPL and some of these leagues around the world. I would say England would have fared better at this World Cup had that happened. Now , seven years on , it has not happened. We are chasing everyone. Everyone has gone to a different level . Vaughan reckons England need to start embracing competitions like the IPL and Big Bash to progress in ODI cricket. ( Pic courtesy G Rajaraman ) © Cricbuzz Do you see the possibility of ECB turning to an Asian coach at some point of time ? There are enough brains around that know what exactly needs to happen. I am sure we will have a Big Bash type tournament created , probably in 2017. The World Cup is in 2019. Is that going to be enough ? Two years ? I think there are enough players with skill levels that need to be given opportunities. You have the young players. You just have to throw them all in. It sounds absolutely drastic but it is n't. Send all the young kids out there who have this mindset of whacking it that is what the game is about and see where it takes the team. It is not just this team. For 20 years , England has been a poor one-day team. It is not just this group of players. My group that we had in 2007 , we were poor. In 2011 , we were poor. Go back to 1999 , in our own country we were poor. '96 , Sri Lanka battered us in the quarterfinals. We were poor. It was really in 1987 where England were good in one-day cricket but I guess there was not as much competition in those days because the teams were n't as good. It is not just about this group. There has been a long history for England teams . Do you think the cricketers are playing too correct ? Yes , I agree. I think we play too technical. I think we look to take ones in the middle periods rather than boundaries. I do know there is talent in England. There are a lot of young players who have this kind of fearless approach. They need to be given opportunities and given the freedom to express themselves. If it goes wrong in a few games , do n't drop them. Alex Hales has just not been given a game. He is the one player that can whack the ball and can play well. He got a hundred against Sri Lanka in the T20 World Cup. That , for me , was a sure sign that England would struggle in this World Cup. When Alex Hales was not given the opening spot straightaway in 50-over cricket , I felt that we were going to struggle. That was a year ago . James Anderson and others are good in Tests but seemed to be struggling in the World Cup They have not got the lengths right. I think they bowled too short. They have n't got the ball swinging around. In England , where it swings , they have a chance. Over here , it has n't but most other teams have swung the ball. For some reason , England 's are n't bowling as quick as some of the other teams. India now have quicker bowlers. ( Bangladesh 's ) Rubel Hossein , bowling at 148 clicks. England do n't seem to have that kind of bowler , which is a worry . You can make as many excuses as you want. Our players have n't been exposed enough to the leagues around the world. I would pin that down to the Board ( ECB ) that does n't allow them to. Even the players who have been exposed the Hales , the Stokes , the Luke Wrights , the Michael Carberyys have not been selected. So , you ca n't say you need more T20 players. There are T20 players but you are not picking them. It is a real mixed bag. Collective responsibility. Nothing has gone right for the England team . © Cricbuzz
