Fleming impressed by 'innovative ' Ashwin Wed , Mar 11 2015 Last updated on Wednesday , 11 March , 2015 , 05 : 07 PM Ashwin has taken 11 wickets in five matches at an impressive economy rate of 3.89. © AFP Former New Zealand captain Stephen Fleming is impressed by the way India offspinner R Ashwin has bowled in the ICC World Cup. India , under the leadership of MS Dhoni , sit atop Pool B with five wins and the credit goes to the bowlers. The fact that they have managed to bowl out all their oppositions speaks volumes. Ashwin has played his part to good effect , taking 11 wickets in five games at an impressive economy rate of 3.89 with a career-best 4 for 25 coming against the United Arab Emirates . Ashwin 's bowling against Ireland on Tuesday after the Indian fast bowlers had a rare bad start was commendable and his figures of 2 for 38 went a long way towards India restricting the opposition to 259 on a batting-friendly Hamilton pitch. That performance is not lost on Fleming , Ashwin 's coach at the Chennai Super Kings . " I have always been impressed with Ashwin as he is such a good student of the game with great work ethic. Look at the manner in which he creates a new delivery. He loves the game , thinks very hard , he is in a way cricket tragic , statistically motivated , " Fleming said during a promotional event on Wednesday . " He needs confidence from the team and he gets that with seam bowlers taking wickets up front. That enables him to attack , " he added . Medium pacer Mohit Sharma , another CSK player , has also caught Fleming 's eye. " India have always had a weakness as far as their third seamer is concerned. They turned it to one of their strengths. Ishant Sharma went home , it could have been difficult for India. I have seen Mohit 's development closely and his work with Andy Bichel [ CSK bowling coach ] has been impressive. He started with good performance against Pakistan , he has got confidence. Indian pacers are now all in 140 kmph to 145 kmph mark and they are relishing bowling at that pace , " Fleming said . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
