Gayle in doubt for clash against UAE Napier , Thu , Mar 12 2015 Last updated on Thursday , 12 March , 2015 , 01 : 26 AM Chris Gayle is in doubt for the clash against the UAE due to a back injury . West Indies are in fifth position in Pool B . Chris Gayle is in doubt for the game against UAE due to a back injury. © Reuters Chris Gayle is in doubt for the crucial clash against the UAE on Sunday in Napier due to a back injury. Gayle did not train with his teammates in McLean Park on Wednesday and he remained in the team hotel . West Indies coach Stuart Williams did not give too many details but hinted that he might not be risked for the game. " We 'd love him to play all the games ( but ) we 'll just have to manage him better , " he said . Barring one huge knock , Gayle has had an average tournament. He has made scores of 36,4,3 and 21 but he still has an average of 55.85 in the tournament due to the knock of 215 against Zimbabwe in Canberra . The game against UAE is a must-win for the West Indies. They are currently in fifth position with just four points and they must beat the UAE in order to have any chance of qualifying for the quarter-final. Coach Williams stressed on the importance of the game. " Our form throughout the tournament has been inconsistent and our destiny is ahead of us. For a few days , the future is in our own hands and on Sunday , we 'll know exactly what we have to do to qualify , " he said . West Indies started their campaign poorly by losing to Ireland in Nelson but recovered to beat Pakistan in Christchurch. They hammered Zimbabwe in Canberra but suffered heavy losses to South Africa and India. However , Williams said West Indies have the ability to rise to the occasion and he is confident that the team will be a force to reckon with in the knock-outs . " In reality it 's better to have bad performances earlier than now. Sometimes it 's up and sometimes it 's down , so we 've just got to get the balance right , whether it 's batting , bowling or fielding. We can only finish fourth so once we qualify , nobody will want to play the West Indies. On our day we will beat anyone in this tournament and our men will be ready for that , " he said . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
