Family ties : Vettori 's success leaves parents proud Hamilton , Thu , Mar 12 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Friday , 20 March , 2015 , 07 : 43 AM Daniel Vettori became the youngest debutant for New Zealand when he made his Test debut against England in Wellington in 1997. ( Credits - Jamie Alter ) © Cricbuzz It was late January 1997 , a few days after his son 's 18th birthday , and Renzo Vettori was driving home to Hamilton on State Highway 1 from a work conference in Taupo. It was a sunny afternoon , the road stretching out for miles ahead and greenish-brown hills rolling on either side . Then Renzo 's mobile phone rang. It was his wife , Robyn . " Renzo , Daniel 's been picked to play for New Zealand , " said his wife excitedly . Renzo had to pull his car off to the side of the road to comprehend what he 'd just heard. He had to hear it again. His son , Daniel Luca Vettori , enrolled on a health science course at university and headed to be a pharmacist , was going to play a Test match against England hardly ten days after he turned 18 . It was , in Renzo 's words , " a huge surprise " . On February 6 , 1997 , Daniel Vettori became the youngest debutant for New Zealand. Just three years after he took to spin bowling. Thin , gangly , bespectacled with a long mop of hair , he was unbeaten on three and two with the bat and then bowled his brand of left-arm spin for match figures of 34.3-10-98-2. His first wicket was Nasser Hussain , caught Bryan Young for 64. His second was Andy Caddick for 20 . Renzo remembers that day well , and the one before it. He and Robyn , a nurse by profession , and their two other children Nicholas and Kimberly , got into the family car and drove to Wellington to watch Vettori make his Test debut . " We drove down for the first Test at the Basin Reserve and we stayed at a B&B down there not far from the park , " says Renzo , who works for a dairy company. " My sister lives in Wellington , so we all went on the first day. As a family. " A weekend outing , at a cosy homestay , with sandwiches packed in a basket . " Yep , that 's what it was , essentially , " says Renzo . But with a whole lot of nerves , surely . " Yep , plenty of them. It was actually quite apprehensive. He was only 18 , but fairly mature in a cricketing sense. He 'd played age groups and graduated through to the Northern Districts side , and he 'd been on a tour to England with the youth team. Daniel had the career goal to play for New Zealand , but I do n't think even he thought he 'd get it at that young age. As I said , it was a bit of a surprise. " Growing up as a left-arm spinner in New Zealand , young Vettori had no left-arm spin-bowling role models. New Zealand 's best bowlers had all been fast bowlers. The likes of Tom Burtt and Hedley Howarth were well before him ; Stephen Boock retired when he was 10. " When he first started , he was medium-pace , " says Renzo. " There was a teacher at St Paul 's School , the headmaster in fact , who encouraged him to take up spin bowling. Thank goodness for that. He showed talent then , and he had the right attitude of a fast bowler , which New Zealand had a lot of when he was young. " " There 's a natural ability you can spot , but apart from that the boys were ready to put in a lot of hard work , and you can see that in Daniel 's career , " he continues. " He was the guy who during the holidays , when we 'd go to the beach , would be torn between being with us and playing in cricket tournaments. As Daniel got older , the cricket tournaments started to take place in our time at the beach , and he was prepared to go play cricket. He had that focus , that determination. Whereas my older son would rather go to the beach. " Vettori was exposed to cricket and soccer at a young age , largely due to the sporting nature of his brother Nicholas. Renzo encouraged the boys and his daughter to play team sports , being a keen and regular softball player himself , as well as cricket now and then. Nicholas is " a good cricket player " and " capable sportsman " , says Renzo , and there was plenty of backyard cricket at their home in Hamilton. " Two boys out back , as it should be. " Yet it was n't a sports mad house , Renzo points out , because his wife Robyn is n't much into sports. " The family joke is that if you want your mother to come and see you play , youve got to make the New Zealand team , " he laughs . That opportunity came for Robyn when Vettori was picked to play his first Test at 18 , and since then she has grown to enjoy the game. " It was just excitement , " says Renzo of watching Vettori bowl at the Basin Reserve on debut. " Naturally , you want him to do well , but for him to have on for all these years is special. I could not see at the time that he would still be playing today and holding all these records , to be honest. Robyn and I just wanted him to enjoy it and be reasonably successful , stay in the team for a reasonably long time as supposed to having a boy wonder. I guess there was that perception of 'who 's this young guy ? Is he going to last ? ' and he has. " And how. A career tally of 362 Tests wickets and 302 in ODIs. Second to Sir Richard Hadlee 's Test record of 431 and the country 's most successful in ODIs. He has made his parents immensely proud. Last week , Renzo and Robyn watched their son become the first New Zealand bowler to 300 ODI wickets. He was Man of the Match against Afghanistan at Napier 's McLean Park for figures of 10-4-18-4 . " The good thing about him is that he 's had a period where he 's been injured , and things have n't been good in that regard , but the fact that he 's got himself back into shape and feeling the best he 's ever been is remarkable , " says Renzo. " Dan made a comment recently that the training he 's doing now , he finds hugely more beneficial than what he used to do , which I think says it all. " Vettori 's parents stay in touch. Hamilton is a couple hours ' drive from Auckland , where he lives with his wife and three children. His two siblings also reside in Auckland , and Renzo and Robyn often babysit. " It 's great having our grandchildren come visit. In fact , one of Daniel 's children is staying with us at the moment , " says Renzo. Again , the smile of pride is unmistakable. You can picture him coming home from work and greeting his grandchild with a bear bug . Renzo has got 12 scrapbooks since Vettori started playing cricket. " I keep them , not him , " he points out. " His stuff normally gets chucked in the cupboard. Hopefully , whatever I 've collected , his kids and grandkids will be able to look at some day. " And each time he watches his son on the field , there is that familiar tightening of the stomach. " I still get anxious , " he says. " I suppose any father would , right ? Nowadays , I get more anxious when hes batting ! " We 've all had times when as teenagers or children we have said or wanted to say 'okay , mom , dad - just back away now , youre embarrassing me ' or 'would you please stop talking ? ' but Renzo says thats not been the case with Vettori. Or at least he has n't heard him say so , he adds with a smile . " Daniel 's never had a problem with my wife and I touring , or coming to watch him play , right from the start. I do n't think we 've ever overstepped any boundaries , it 's always been normal. " No tips on how he should be flighting the ball more ? Or how his front foot was n't coming across enough ? Or why he played that shot to get out ? Renzo laughs. " It would n't be my place to tell him proper cricket stuff. That 's for the coaches and stuff to tell him. I 'm just a proud father watching my son play for New Zealand. " Daniel Vettori just before the start of the 2002 series against India. At that time , he was playing for Northern Districts along with Daryl Tuffey , Scott Styris and Ian Butler. ( Credits - Jamie Alter ) © Cricbuzz Renzo , like all proud fathers , is up to date with Vettori 's stats and figures , but when he picks up the phone to speak with him it is " not generally about cricket " . The calls and messages between father and son over the years have been about the good times and the bad. In the good times , Renzo has congratulated Vettori on the success , hauls and achievements. In the bad times , he has been there like any father would be for his son . " There were some periods that he did have his critics , but it did n't last long. When he was injured , for example , it was pretty tough for him , " reveals Renzo. " Daniel is highly motivated. In the background , he 's not extroverted but he has a lot of friends , a good mix. He 's a jovial sort of guy. Within the team , fairly well respected , but from a general point of view he 'd probably be more respected offshore than in New Zealand. I believe he has huge respect offshore with the cricket fraternity , but New Zealanders are naturally understated. 'Tall Poppy Syndrome ' you know. But , I feel overseas the appreciation and respect is far more. " Renzo has watched his son play international cricket for 18 years , on television and live at cricket grounds across the world. He 's been to Australia , England , India , and most recently in October 2014 to Dubai , when Cricket New Zealand flew Renzo and Robyn out to watch what was likely Vettori 's final Test match. Again , the proud parents sat in the stands to watch their son , aged 35 , put on the whites and roll his arm over in Tests . " We 've seen his first Test , we 've seen his 50th , we 've seen his 100th here in Hamilton and we 've seen probably his last one. " On Friday , Renzo and Robyn will be at Seddon Park - venue for their son 's 100th Test in 2010 - to watch Vettori play New Zealand 's last league match against Bangladesh. But the match they are really looking forward to , with a bit of anxiety , is the quarter-final on March 21 at Westpac Stadium. " It could be his last game , " says Renzo matter-of-factly . And so , like they did in 1997 , husband and wife will start the car and make the drive to Wellington to watch their son. They will be joined by their children , grandchildren and daughter-in-law. They will be nervous , as they were all those years ago , and excited. The butterflies will flutter inside. Whether New Zealand progress or not , after the big game Renzo and Robyn Vettori will greet their son with the same pride and happiness that they have lived with since he walked out onto the field at Basin Reserve for the first time. There is no doubt of that . © Cricbuzz
