De Villiers relieved after quarterfinal assurance Thu , Mar 12 2015 Last updated on Thursday , 12 March , 2015 , 10 : 54 AM The Proteas skipper scored an 82-ball 99 and was instrumental in the team reaching a formidable 341 for 6. © AFP South Africa sealed their place in the ICC World Cup quarterfinals after beating United Arab Emirates by 146 runs in their last Pool B game at Wellington on Thursday , and once again it was AB de Villiers who laid the foundations for the win. The Proteas skipper scored an 82-ball 99 and was instrumental in the team reaching a formidable 341 for 6 , in the chase of which the Associate team was bowled out for 195 in the 48th over . South Africa needed to win this match to absolutely ensure their place in the knockouts and de Villiers , who had displayed great frustration after losses against India and Pakistan earlier in the tournament , was at last a relieved man . " Very happy about today. It was hard work. They made it difficult for us. I was happy with the way we fought throughout. I wo n't say it is simple , but I try to keep it simple. Not always easy to play against a team not as good as you usually play , " de Villiers said at the post-match presentation . " Was important for me to stick to my game plans. Never a given that you will make the quarter-final so a big moment for us. We are representing our country in a knockout match in a World Cup , I think in Sydney. " Not just with the bat , de Villiers also took 2 for 15 - for the third match running he was among the wickets. He , JP Duminy ( 1 for 12 ) and Farhaan Behardien ( 0 for 11 ) combined for 10 overs and played the role of the fifth bowler to excellent effect. When asked whether he had found his bowling combination for the potential quarterfinal against Sri Lanka , de Villiers said : " I 'll wait for the crunch time in the knockout to bowl my overs. It was an opportunity to give some of the part-timer bowlers a run so we took it. Not a given that we will play five bowlers in the quarterfinal. " Meanwhile , UAE spinner Mohammad Tauqir was happy to have learnt several important lessons from a world-class South African side. " We bowled well until 44-45 overs. In batting it was a good knock by Swapnil Patil [ who scored an unbeaten 57 ] . We batted almost 50 overs so it is a big positive. It has given us a lot of confidence. They have got some amazing bowlers. We are not used to playing this kind of bowlers. A lot of confidence almost playing out 50 overs. " © Cricbuzz Tags
