Bevan , the Original Finisher , speaks of need to eliminate fear of losing Sydney , Thu , Mar 12 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Friday , 20 March , 2015 , 07 : 51 AM The left-handed batsman scored more than 4,500 runs in 155 Australian wins. ( Image credit : G Rajaraman ) © Cricbuzz The thought of a trip to Campbelltown , a south-western suburb of Sydney , was at once discouraging and inviting. Three hours in trains on the up and down journeys did not seem to be a great idea but the possibility of a conversation with former Australian allrounder Michael Bevan on the sidelines of an ICC promotional event was very tempting . A short drive from Campbelltown and a walk through the massive Macarthur Square shopping mall leads us to an open area where the ICC has got music groups to represent England and Afghanistan to try and catch the attention of the shoppers. It is another matter that there are not too many onlookers on a blustery evening but Bevan is on a bench . " The original finisher , " I told him , introducing myself . " And the best ! " he responded with a glint in his eyes. " Of course , I am joking. " Of course , Bevan 's great skills with the willow and running between the wickets made him the Original Finisher , one-day cricket 's version of an explorer like Captain Cook. The left-handed batsman scored more than 4,500 runs in 155 Australian wins , notching up 50-plus scores once in three innings in these games . It does not take long convincing him to have a conversation about what has come to be known as finishing . Who do think are good finishers now ? There 's plenty. You have got AB de Villiers , you got MS Dhoni , James Faulkner. You can nearly put even Virat Kohli into that list because he is such a good middle-order batsman. And even someone like Kevin O'Brien from Ireland is quite good as well. So , there are quite a few going around . Do you think the quality of the new bats have helped them achieve such heights ? They are not the only reason why batters are scoring faster today. The game and the rules have changed. The boundaries are smaller ; there are fewer fielders inside the circle. It tends to favour the bigger hitters , the six hitters. Even when they do n't connect , the ball still goes over the boundary. And that is a kind of by-product of the Twenty20 game. They just have to be a little careful so that it does n't become too one-sided in one-day cricket. I think good one-day batters are very good Twenty20 batters. Their strike rate is between 80 and 90 nowadays whereas for me it was about 70 to 80. You have to naturally change your game and you have to work out ways to increase your scoring and help your team to score more quickly . Does someone like MS Dhoni leave it too late , as was suggested sometime ago ? Obviously , MS scores more quickly and in different areas. He has actually also played much of his cricket in India. Someone like MS , or even Michael Hussey , they are unbelievable finishers. They had an advantage. Maybe they took what I started as a finisher but both are very , very good finishers in the one-day game . So talk to us about finishing.. . Being a finisher was something that I did n't ever think about. I did n't see myself as a finisher. I just felt that I was playing the role that the team needed me to. I guess I had a certain strategy or approach in terms of how I like to play the one-day game and how I chased runs. I did it my way and it worked for me. And it may have been a little different to how everyone else approached it at that point of time. So I guess that is why I became the 'finisher' . How did you evolve into that ? It is not something that I practiced. It was only a mindset , an approach to how I liked to play the game , liked to minimise risks. I liked to work out what I felt was the best way to help my team win and also understand which bowlers , at which time , I needed to target. I suppose I had a bit of a strategy in being there at the end. I was a bit of a planner. That was my style whilst also helping the lower order bat as well as possible . Did you figure bowlers out or did you get them to do what you wanted them to do ? Sometimes both. You always had to make your decisions on who was bowling , what type of pitch you were playing on , what shots you were comfortable playing and also what match situation you were in. I think one of my strengths was gauging how quickly to go What went through your mind when you were padded up and ready in the dressing room ? I had to do a quick analysis of which bowlers had how many overs left , what type of field placing they had and make decisions on what type of shots I was going to play , the areas to score and how late to leave the run chase in terms of winning the match. Was I happy to win it in the last over or did I think we needed to win it with three overs to spare. I did calculate a lot and I did try and plan how I was going to score those runs . Talk about running between wickets.. . Most of it was down to my natural speed. I was lucky enough to be quite fast and that really helped. You also have to run straight lines. I think the most important thing is to have good communication with your partner and trusting him. There is nothing worth having a run-out in a match that does n't need to happen. And , most run-outs do n't need to happen but they do because there is lack of communication or there is uncertainty. I trusted the people I was batting with and tried to be clear in communicating whether we should run or if there was no run in it . Were you lucky to have a good captain who empowered you to express yourself ? I think a captain is very important for the success of the team. We were very lucky to have some very good captains when I was playing ; Mark Taylor , Steve Waugh and Ricky Ponting. I was also fortunate to play for good teams as well . Tell us when a batsman feels under pressure and how did you hold together under stress ? There were lots of times when I was in a situation. For every time I won a game for Australia , I got out. There were plenty of times where I feel I did n't bat that well. That is always going to happen. I think under pressure you do feel anxious , a little bit pessimistic and frustrated. And when you have that combination , it does n't work for you. A part of my role of batting at No. 6 was to be able to handle pressure. I think you need to be able to set really small goals and really small targets. And also be prepared to accept that your job is to be there at the end and sometimes you are n't going to win. So you need to take that fear of losing and of taking the responsibility for losing matches away from yourself so that you can feel comfortable when you are out there . © Cricbuzz
