Hard to fill up MS Dhoni 's shoes : Ian Smith Thu , Mar 12 2015 Last updated on Thursday , 12 March , 2015 , 08 : 06 PM Dhoni has already quit Test cricket. © Getty Former New Zealand wicketkeeper-batsman Ian Smith believes India will find it hard to find a suitable replacement for MS Dhoni once he retires from all forms of cricket. The 33-year-old India captain has already quit Tests and is not likely to continue in limited-overs cricket for long . " It will be very hard to fill up Dhoni 's shoes. In case of MS [ Dhoni ] , he has really been unchallenged in this Indian team as a wicket keeper and batsman. To add to it , there was this extra burden of captaining a team like India , where there is enormous pressure to perform every day , where he is expected to take all correct decisions. The captaincy bit adds to his quality. I would like to stress that the burden that Dhoni takes could have taken a very big toll on any man with lesser capabilities , " Smith told PTI . Smith , who played 63 Tests and 98 ODIs between 1980 and 1992 , reckons that India 's next wicketkeeper will be chosen mostly on the basis of his batting skills , a widely-preferred criterion across the cricketing world nowadays . " Let 's assume that the best wicketkeeper in India scores at an average of mid-20 's and there is the next best who can score at 40 plus in international cricket , that particular guy would be chosen. That 's the kind of bar that Dhoni has set for keepers in India after Adam Gilchrist changed the perception of wicket keeper-batsman to batsman-wicketkeeper. A batsman-keeper is expected to keep at least 90 per cent of accuracy in catching and stumping , " the 58-year-old Smith said . Smith , who is presently doing commentary at the ICC World Cup , is also of the opinion that great glovesmen like Australian Ian Healy and English Bob Taylor would have had little relevance in modern cricket as wicketkeeping skills were not the most important requirement anymore . " With due respect , Ian Healy , Bob Taylor have had fantastic careers behind the stumps and a very effective career with the bat. But sadly , that 's no longer enough to play international cricket. If you want to become an international wicketkeeper , you ca n't bat lower than No 7. You are expected to play an attacking role. Even Healy , Bob Taylor had wonderful careers with gloves and effective careers with bat , it 's sadly not enough anymore. Not much room is left for wicketkeepers batting lower than No 8 , " Smith said . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
