Sourav Ganguly : Bowlers the reason for India 's World Cup success Auckland , Fri , Mar 13 2015 by Sourav Ganguly Last updated on Saturday , 14 March , 2015 , 01 : 23 AM " It amazes me how India lift themselves in world championships , " writes Sourav Ganguly " Ashwin has been a huge revelation for India , " according to the former India skipper Mohammed Shami has been on the money with 12 wickets from four matches so far © AFP Everyone is applauding the way India have played so far in this ICC Cricket World Cup 2015. The business end of the tournament is yet to start , and it is going to be a different ball game once India start the quarter-finals , but the most important reason that India have been so good in the tournament is the massive development that the bowlers have shown . India have taken 50 wickets in five games so far , which is a fabulous achievement for this side. Bowling out teams in this World Cup is outstanding. Surprisingly , Ireland are the side to score the most runs against India so far. Considering the way the World Cup has gone , teams have made 300 and even 400 a few times , but the way India have gotten hold of oppositions has been excellent. Dismissing South Africa for 177 , West Indies for 182 , and Pakistan for 224 speaks volumes of the way they have bowled . Now the question is : What is this massive transformation in the Indian bowling ? We saw them struggle in the Test matches against Australia , we saw a little bit of improvement in the tri-series , but what we are seeing in the World Cup is something different. Something which we have not seen for a long time . I said at the start of the tournament that this World Cup will be different from playing the tri-series and the Tests , because when you come to Australia and get under the heat all the time , over a span of two months , it just gets a bit too much. Australia are a very strong team at home , like many teams in their own backyard. Australia are probably more stronger at home than others , so from that point of view I am not surprised at what I 've seen . India 's seamers have run in with intent , they 've hit the right areas. Mohammed Shami 's seam position has been great. I 've said over the last year and a half that his seam position is terrific , he hits the right length and the ball does something. Even if the ball gets old , his seam position is such that he gets movement off the pitch. What has also worked for him is that he 's looked a much better bowler in ten overs rather than bowling throughout a day in a Test. And this is an area that the team management will have to address. We have to be a consistent side all around the world , not just in World Cups . It amazes me how India lift themselves in world championships. Take the 2011 World Cup , take the 2013 Champions Trophy or the World Twenty20 in Bangladesh last year and now this World Cup. Before and after that they have gone through series where they 've been whitewashed. They 've lost 4-0 in Test series , they went through a series of one-day losses overseas , so to turn it around from there has been a remarkable achievement . I think the reason is that all five bowlers have done exceptionally well. The big difference in R Ashwin , and I hope he transforms this improvement in Tests and Twenty20s , is the speed at which he has bowled. He 's bowled a lot slower. Sometimes , when you see here that he is bowling at 70 or 80kmph as opposed to 90 and higher during the Test matches , you know why he has been successful. Ashwin has been a huge revelation for India . If you look at India 's performances at home , the spinners come into play and get wickets and that is why they are such a tough team to beat at home. With Ashwin 's performance , being the second most successful spinner in the World Cup after Daniel Vettori , the spinners have once again generated pressure on the opposition . The fast bowlers have looked good , they 've bowled in good areas. Umesh Yadav has bowled with a lot of pace and gotten better because he was repeatedly played in Test matches and ODIs. It has not been a stop-start career for him since he made it back to the team. Consistency and constant cricket has helped Umesh get his line and length and hence the confidence back . India play Zimbabwe in their last World Cup league game , this time in Auckland. A couple of days ago they were in Hamilton , where they went past Ireland , the strongest of the Associates teams. Ireland started the game well , their openers played the fast bowlers well , but once the spinners came on they struggled against the guile and changes of pace from Ashwin , who has bowled outstanding in the World Cup. Once the ball got older and India 's spinners took pace of it , Ireland lost the plot. They got a good start , but kept falling behind . That said , it was n't all about India 's spinners. I think the fast bowlers also came back well towards the end. Ireland were at one stage 206 for 3 with ten overs to go , which should have taken them to 300. But Shami came back well , taking important wickers to bring India back. A target of 260 with that Irish attack was never going to be enough to stop this Indian batting line-up. The form India are in , it was always going to be a non-competition and Shikhar Dhawan continued his excellent form to help fashion an eight-wicket win. The Seddon Park track had a little bounce and it was good to bat on , and I think Eden Park will be similar . Once again , what is going to make these sides fall apart against India is their weak bowling. There 's no pace. It 's medium and slow-medium. With the likes of Dhawan , Rohit Sharma and Virat Kohli and the rest , one after the other , it will be very tough for Zimbabwe to contain India 's batting whatever score they put up . Winning the toss would be the best option for Zimbabwe if they want to beat India. Get a big total and put the scoreboard pressure on India , otherwise once again I think it will be a mismatch at Eden Park. India are a far better side , and a side in form . The question is : Will India keep the same XI ? And if they do , do they play the same batting order ? In the quarter-finals , they will require everyone to keep their form. Ravindra Jadeja has n't got many runs , Suresh Raina has n't clicked barring the first game against Pakistan , so there is an opportunity to push up these two players in the middle to make sure they feel good when India get to the quarter-finals . Getting runs against a slow , ordinary Zimbabwean attack may not have that much of an effect when you play Australia and such better teams in the semi-finals where there will be fast bowlers bowling at 90 miles an hour , but runs are runs. That is the only area where I think India could look at. They could shuffle that batting and make sure all areas are covered , but knowing MS Dhoni and the way he has gone about business in this World Cup , he will not make any changes to the team or the batting order. He will go with the same winning combination and not wish to tinker with anything. Whatever Dhoni does , India will beat Zimbabwe . © Cricbuzz
