Live Scores Full Scorecard Victory : Dhoni , Raina finish it off in style An unbeaten 196-run stand between Raina and Dhoni took India home quite comfortably in the end. Dhoni finished it off with a trademark six and India 's winning streak in World Cups continued. They have finished the league stages unbeaten and will be pleased to have avoided the banana peel today. Brendan Taylor 's last game for Zimbabwe has ended in another loss but he too will walk out with his head held high after a stupendous knock earlier in the day . Ton : Maiden World Cup ton for Raina A series of delicate glances and late cuts were interspersed with the odd big hit as Raina got to his ton. Fifth in ODIs overall and a very valuable one. He came in with India under a lot of pressure and saw them through that period quite superbly . Acing the chase It is India who are chasing with the required rate over 7 an over. However , it is Zimbabwe who are feeling all the pressure at the moment. Boundaries are coming at will and the fielding is showing some cracks. Dhoni got his 57th ODI fifty as well. Highest 5th wicket partnership for India in World Cups as well. Remember , India have never successfully chased down a target over 277 in World Cups. Today might be the day. At the moment , all the momentum is with India . Clinical stand These two have done it so many times before. 100 partnership came off just 101 balls. India needed 96 from 63 balls at this stage. Lot of pressure just looking at the asking rate but both Dhoni and Raina appeared quite nonchalant. The only thing worrying them out there is their own calling while running between the wickets. Nerves of steel . Dropped : What have you done Masakadza ! Raina on 47. Goes for a sweep off Raza and gets a top edge. Hamilton Masakadza behind square on the onside had all the time to pouch it but simply spilled a sitter. Huge lifeline for India and Raina. If that was taken , Zimbabwe would have had India on the mat. Raina lives to fight on . Meanwhile our user , Rajat Pathak , has his views on the game. Here it is : Brendon Taylor displayed his talent today in a match ,expected by manyto have gone India 's way. This 29 year old batsman had twoconsolidating partnerships on his way to a massive 138 off just 110balls including 15 fours and 5 sixes leading his side to a score of287 , which nobody would have expected by Zimbabwe.Now all eyes on Dhoni 's men to fightback after this patheticperformance by the top order batsmen . This game is alive and kicking. Good wake-up call for India as well ahead of the knockouts. Want your comment to be featured here ? Send us your thoughts at submissions @ cricbuzz.com . Partnership : India back on track The boundaries were drying up and Raina was looking fidgety for a while but the shackles were broken thanks to a couple of sixes. Raina got going against Sean Williams in the 30th over but there is still a lot of work to do. Dhoni and Raina have put on a good stand but these two will have to carry on much longer for India to get close . Wicket : Kohli departs for 38 It is a banana peel that India will be hoping to avoid. Virat Kohli looked good to guide them through in the chase but he was bowled round the legs by Raza for 38. India need 196 more and another wicket at this stage will make Zimbabwe firm favorites. Not looking very good for India at the moment . Wicket : Rahane run out against run of play Kohli and Rahane had helped calm a lot of nerves with a brisk fifty-run stand. Kohli was the dominant partner in the stand but Rahane looked well set as well before a misunderstanding caught Rahane short. The bat bouncing up as he dove cost him dear. India in a pot of bother now at 71/3. Zimbabwe pushing them really hard now . The superstar He has not even faced a ball in the innings yet but if you go simply by the crowd chants , you 'd think he was on 99. 'Kohli , Kohlii ' rang the chants all across the ground. Quite incredible and I stress , he was not even off the mark. He did that soon though with a lovely straight drive past the bowler and then a trademark flick through mid wicket . Wickets : Panyangara bags both openers After a sedate and rather boring start , the game sprang to life in the 7th over. Panyangara had troubled both batsmen for a while as did Chatara from the other end. The openers survived for a while before Rohit got a leading edge to cover and Dhawan chopped one on. Two wickets in an over with just 21 on the board. India feeling some pressure now . Innings break : 6 in a row for India India finish the league stages by picking 60 wickets. Yes. That 's right. They bowled out oppositions in all their games. What a tournament the bowlers are having. Zimbabwe ended with 287 with Taylor being the obvious star of the show. Competitive total but should not worry India too much . It 's 6th time in a row India have bowled out the opponents- equal SA 's record of dismissing opponents in most consecutive games in WC # CWC15 — Rajneesh Gupta ( @ rgcricket ) March 14 , 2015 End of the Taylor era He scored 80 off the last 35 balls he faced today. Also became the third highest run-scorer for Zimbabwe. And broke the record for most tons by a Zimbabwe player. Just 29 years old but off he goes from international cricket. Tremendous ovation as he walked off with a wave. The Indian players rushed up to congratulate him as well. Pity for Zimbabwe but all good things do come to an end. This period of Zimbabwe 's cricket history will be referred to as the Taylor-era . Ton : Taylor signs off on a high What a knock to play in your last game. Take a bow , Brendan Taylor. That was sheer class. Got it with a superb ramp shot for six over third man. What 's more ? He became the first Zimbabwe player to score back-to-back tons in a World Cup. Zimbabwe are well set to launch ahead in the end overs and Taylor is leading the charge with Ervine giving him excellent support. 49 runs came in the batting powerplay and Zimbabwe are ready to power ahead . Taylor was 57 off 74 balls at the end of 32 overs. 137 off 108 at the end of over 41. Turning it on . Taylor got a warm farewell from the crowd and his mates © Getty BOOM indeed — Darren Sammy ( @ darrensammy88 ) March 14 , 2015 Brendan Taylor 8th ODI 100 - the most by a Zimbabwe batsman ( Alistair Campbell has 7 ) # swansong # BingPredicts # DimagSay — Mohandas Menon ( @ mohanstatsman ) March 14 , 2015 Last laugh : Ashwin gets Williams He was hit for 26 runs in 16 balls by Williams including three massive sixes but Ashwin got his man finally. Williams slammed on flat back to the bowler who took it quite neatly and low down. Third umpire was called to check but the catch was clean. Another setback for Zimbabwe Fightback : Fifties for Taylor and Williams It has been a splendid little partnership between Taylor and Williams. They are taking the attack to the Indian spinners and doing it in some style. Williams has been severe on Ashwin , who has gone for 38 in his first four overs. For the first time in the tournament , Ashwin has been put under pressure. It has got India thinking as well. Dhoni has been running up to advice his spinners on field placements and lines to bowl presumably. Good contest this . Take a bow , Brendan Taylor. Must be a hugely emotional moment for him but he 's not let that show. Gone about his batting as clinically as possible. No celebrations either. Just a raise of the bat. Class . Williams has brought life to the Zimbabwe innings. His fifty came of 55 balls and the way he 's attacked the spinners has put India under a lot of pressure. Excellent batting . Taylor on song Pommie Mbangwa , on air , reckoned that Taylor is Zimbabwe 's best limited overs player. Even ahead of Andy Flower. Sparks a debate for sure. Agree with him ? One thing that the two have in common is a penchant for the reverse sweep. Taylor got two boundaries off an Ashwin over with the same shot that gets on Bedi 's nerves. Williams did it against Jadeja. All helping Zimbabwe 's cause. Partnership blooming now . Reverse sweep and Zimbabwe vs India. Have seen it all before. # andyflower # taylor # INDvsZIM : - ) — RK ( @ RK_sports ) March 14 , 2015 Zimbabwe 's best chance : Brendan Taylor and Sean Williams are comfortably Zimbabwe 's best batsmen and both are in-form as well. With spin coming in and the short straight boundaries , this is Zimbabwe 's best chance to fight back. The duo will have to stitch together a partnership once again . Stuck in a time warp or does he have a point ? Equivalent of ugly Doosra is reverse sweep-there r so many ways 2 keep Crkt elegantly graceful why indulge in stupid gimmicks ? Personal view ! — Bishan Bedi ( @ BishanBedi ) March 14 , 2015 It 's a procession Mohit Sharma had Solomon Mire nicking behind and now all three Indian pacers had a wicket apiece. Funnily enough Mohit Sharma hardly appealed. Dhoni threw the ball up in the air and Mire simply turned around and walked away. Almost nothing given away in the powerplay overs as well. India have been very good , once again . You can feel India 's energy even watching on TV. The bowlers are zipping it through & the fielders are buzzing. # CWC15 # IndvZim # Ind # Zim — Freddie Wilde ( @ fwildecricket ) March 14 , 2015 And there comes another Shami gets his 13th wicket of World Cup 2015. Right on target again. Just around the off stump with a hint of movement away. Chibhabha takes the bait and the edge is pouched neatly at slip by Dhawan. That ball was travelling . Enter Brendan Taylor. What a moment for Zimbabwe 's best batsman in the last few years. Needs to pull them out of trouble , yet again. Some things never change . Wicket : Umesh strikes India 's pacers have been on the money yet again. Little swing on offer and both Shami and Yadav made the batsmen play around the off stump a lot. Eventually , Masakadza nicked one through to Dhoni , who took it near his ankles. Good start once again for India . How short are the boundary ropes That Eden Park , Auckland has small boundaries is not anything new but still , the illusion that it creates while watching is quite astonishing. MS Dhoni and the two slips accompanying him seem to be standing more than halfway near the boundary. Not a fair indication of the pace of Shami and Umesh though. Both have been sharp and getting some swing but surely does n't warrant the 'keeper standing almost near the boundary rope ! Toss : India opt to bowl No changes to India 's winning squad. MS Dhoni prefered to have things going just as it is. They are n't taking this lightly . An emotional moment for Brendan Taylor as well. He too says that there is no change in Zimbabwe 's squad Teams : Zimbabwe ( Playing XI ) : Chamu Chibhabha , Sikandar Raza , Hamilton Masakadza , Brendan Taylor ( w/c ) , Sean Williams , Craig Ervine , Solomon Mire , Regis Chakabva , Tinashe Panyangara , Tawanda Mupariwa , Tendai Chatara India ( Playing XI ) : Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , Suresh Raina , MS Dhoni ( w/c ) , Ravindra Jadeja , Ravichandran Ashwin , Mohit Sharma , Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav Build-up : India aim to make it 6 on the trot India have hardly put a foot wrong in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 and they will look to end the group stage on a flawless note when they take on Zimbabwe at Eden Park on Saturday. While MS Dhoni 's team have made sure that they will finish as group toppers , an unbeaten six-game streak will be a further boost for the sub-continent side ahead of their quarter-final clash against Bangladesh in a few days time. Meanwhile , Zimbabwe will be eager to make it a memorable farewell for Brendan Taylor , who will feature in his last international assignment before leaving on a three-year Kolpak deal with English county Nottinghamshire . Wins by 76 runs , 130 runs , nine wickets , four wickets and eight wickets have carried MS Dhoni 's team into the knockouts on a wave of confidence and credibility and they will be eager to iron out any remaining creases before their knock-out fixture. Zimbabwe , on the other hand , have not been able to come out on top in pressure situations , which has meant that their underwhelming campaign will end at Auckland . Zimbabwe 's captain at the World Cup , Elton Chigumbura , missed the last game against Ireland because of a grade three tear to the quadriceps muscle in his left leg and looks highly unlikely for this match. On Thursday , Chigumbura did not train hard with the team and was seen walking around Eden Park with the physiotherapist , and with Taylor coming to address the media in the customary pre-match press conference , all indications are that Chigumbura is not match ready . India went through their paces at the practice ground adjacent to Eden Park on Friday , giving little indication of any changes to a winning unit. Dhoni is not generally a man to tinker needlessly , so it seems the likes of Stuart Binny , Ambati Rayudu and Axar Patel will continue to serve drinks . © Cricbuzz
