Pakistan gear up for Ireland in crucial tie Adelaide , Sat , Mar 14 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Saturday , 14 March , 2015 , 07 : 25 AM A win for Pakistan will help them finish third in Pool B . West Indies will be looking to register a big win against UAE in Napier to keep their quarter-final hopes alive . Pakistan 's aggressive pace bowling options have helped paper cracks in the batting department. © Getty There was a distinct contrast to the buzz at the Adelaide Oval on the eve of Pakistan 's match against Ireland in the ICC Cricket World Cup compared to the last time they were here for their opening game against India a month ago. Back then , hundreds of fans thronged the ground to watch the teams prepare. On Saturday , there were only a handful , almost as if the final training sessions in the league stage were being held behind closed gates . The stakes for the two teams , though , are very high. Neither has been guaranteed a spot in the quarter-finals from Group B behind India and South Africa. Pakistan could do the West Indies a favour with a victory over Ireland on Sunday but if Ireland secure another famous win , they would be shutting the door on one of these two big teams. The West Indies will face the United Arab Emirates in Napier and will be hoping for two outcomes in their favour . There will be a great temptation to simplify Sunday 's match as a contest between Pakistan 's bowlers and Ireland 's batsmen but that must be resisted. On what could turn out to be a batting track , the other battle between Ireland 's bowlers and Pakistan 's batsmen may have a more direct bearing on the outcome. There is no doubt that Pakistan 's batsmen have not come to the party but the Irish bowling does not have one strong performance to show . Pakistan are hoping that the presence of Sarfraz Ahmed , however belated , at the top will breathe life into their campaign. Having sat out of the first four games , Sarfraz Ahmed made a quickfire 49 against South Africa. That innings could be the catalyst which would help the other batsmen discover their mojo in the crucial match. Even if he has not set the Torrens River on fire , skipper Misbah-ul-Haq is the only one who has scored more than 200 runs . Pakistan 's aggressive pace bowling options have helped paper cracks in the batting department. Wahab Riaz ( 11 wickets ) , Sohail Khan ( 9 ) and Mohammad Irfan ( 8 ) have been bolstered in the last three games by the addition of Rahat Ali ( 5 ) to the attack. They are not so overly concerned by the failure of their spinners to take wickets but are relieved that Shahid Afridi has been quite inexpensive . Pakistan 's awareness of Ireland 's mature batting line-up borders on respect for their competence against spin bowling and that could lead them to not considering the claims of leg-spinner Yasir Shah. After an intensive workout , the fast bowlers spent some time squatting beyond the square , listening to bowling consultant Mushtaq Ahmed and enjoying one another 's company. The four of them have won the respect of the skipper , who is seeking to pile pressure on the rivals with frequent wickets . That is exactly what Ireland 's batting will try and prevent on Sunday. With the experience of skipper William Porterfield , Ed Joyce , Niall O'Brien and Kevin O'Brien at the top and with the youthful enterprise of Andrew Balbirnie at their disposal , Ireland will be hoping that they can bank on their batting to pull the rug from under Pakistan 's feet , even if their own bowling has been distinctly docile . Misbah-ul-Haq knows that while his team is in a similar situation to the Wounded Tigers , as Imran Khans team of 1992 has now come to be referred to , his own team can not sit back and say that history will repeat itself. Similarly , Porterfield is well aware that his squad may draw inspiration from Ireland 's win against Pakistan in the 2007 World Cup but will have to turn up at the park with their 'A ' game if they are to realise their dream of making it to the round of eight at the expense of one of the heavyweights . Indeed , history has no bearing on what happens on the park on Sunday . Teams : Pakistan : Misbah-ul-Haq ( captain ) , Sarfraz Ahmed ( wicket-keeper ) , Ahmed Shehzad , Younis Khan , Sohain Maqsood , Umar Akmal , Shahid Afridi , Wahab Riaz , Sohail Khan , Aahat Ali , Mohammad Irfan , Haris Sohail , Yasir Shah , Nasir Jamshed , Ehsan Adil . Ireland : William Porterfield ( captain ) , Paul Stirling , Ed Joyce , Niall O'Brien , Andrew Balbirnie , Kevin O'Brien , Gary Wilson ( wicket-keeper ) , Stuart Thompson , John Mooney , George Dockrell , Alex Cussack , Peter Chase , Andrew McBrine , Max Sorensen and Criag Young . Umpires : Marais Erasmus ( South Africa ) and Ruhcira Palliyaguruge ( Sri Lanka ) , TV umpire : Simon Fry ( Australia ) . Match referee : Ranjan Madgualle ( Sri Lanka ) . © Cricbuzz Tags
