Australia seal second spot in Pool A with convincing win Hobart , Sat , Mar 14 2015 by Siddharth Vishwanathan Last updated on Saturday , 14 March , 2015 , 09 : 49 AM Mitchell Starc picked up four wickets as Scotland were bundled out for 130 , their third-lowest score in World Cups . Australia have sealed second spot in Pool A and will meet the third-placed team in Pool B in the quarter-finals . Mitchell Starc 's four wickets bundled out Scotland for 130. © Getty The rain gave Australia 's fans some nervous moments. A washout would mean they would be bumped down from second to third in the group. However , the rain relented just in time and Australia coasted to a seven-wicket victory over Scotland in the 40th match of the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup in Hobart on Saturday . Chasing 130 , Michael Clarke went out to open the innings in order to get some time out in the middle ahead of the quarter-finals. His opening partner , Aaron Finch , survived a chance on 1 when Preston Mommsen spilled a catch at second slip off Rob Taylor. Finch went after Iain Wardlaw by smashing him for two fours and a six in the third over but in the pursuit of quick runs , he mistimed the lofted drive to cover on 20 and Freddie Coleman dived forward to take a good catch . Following Finch 's dismissal , Clarke went after Wardlaw by hitting him for a four and a six. Shane Watson ( 24 ) joined him and he also took the attack to the Scotland bowlers before a rush of blood resulted in his dismissal. He looked to lap-sweep a full and slow ball from Josh Davey but he ended up getting a top edge that nestled in Matthew Cross ' gloves. Clarke ( 47 ) followed soon when he pulled Wardlaw to deep square leg where Michael Leask took a good , diving catch close to the boundary . However , Australia 's march was halted by rain and the players decided to take the supper break. Rain continued to fall and after 90 minutes , play resumed with Australia on 92/3. No overs were lost but James Faulkner and David Warner decided to finish it off in a hurry . Warner got off the mark in style by smashing Wardlaw for a six and followed it up with a four while Josh Davey was smashed for 20 runs. Faulkner sealed the seven-wicket win when he slog-swept Leask over deep midwicket for a six , thus sealing second spot in Pool A . Earlier , Mitchell Starc 's 4 for 14 had helped Australia bundle Scotland out for 130 , their third-lowest score in World Cups , after Michael Clarke chose to bowl in overcast conditions with the threat of rain looming. The left-armer found plenty of help on this deck and he struck in his second over when Kyle Coetzer ( 0 ) edged to Steven Smith at gully. This was his second consecutive duck , following his second-ball duck against Sri Lanka a couple of days ago . Calum MacLeod batted confidently and he went after Pat Cummins by smashing him for four boundaries but Starc struck again when MacLeod ( 22 ) cut a short ball straight to David Warner at point. His dismissal opened the floodgates , with Preston Mommsen ( 0 ) and Freddie Coleman ( 0 ) departed in quick succession. Matt Machan was holding firm at the other end and he was trying to anchor the innings. He went after Mitchell Johnson by hitting him for two boundaries but Cummins came back in his second spell to send back Machan ( 40 ) and Matthew Cross ( 9 ) in one over. At 95 for 8 , Scotland were staring down the barrel . Davey was joined by Leask and the pair went after the Australian bowlers. Davey struck some crisp shots while Leask got going with a hat-trick of boundaries off Cummins. However , rain stopped play for 30 minutes and on resumption , Starc broke the 35-run partnership when he cleaned up Davey ( 26 ) with a yorker that pegged the middle stump back and he polished off the innings when Wardlaw was bowled for 0 . Brief scores : Scotland 130 all out in 25.4 overs ( Matt Machan 40 , Josh Davey 26 ; Mitchell Starc 4/14 ) lost to Australia 133/3 in 15.2 overs ( Michael Clarke 47 , David Warner 21 * ; Rob Taylor 1/29 ) by seven wickets . © Cricbuzz Tags
