India unbeaten as Raina , Dhoni spoil Taylor 's farewell Auckland , Sat , Mar 14 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Saturday , 14 March , 2015 , 10 : 10 AM MS Dhoni and Suresh Raina added 196 runs for the fifth wicket Taylor 's hundred was outdone by Raina 's first World Cup century , an energetic 110 from 104 balls Suresh Raina 's maiden World Cup century ensured India went into the quarter-finals unbeaten © AFP Six games , six wins. India marched unbeaten into the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup quarter-finals by beating Zimbabwe by six wickets at Eden Park on Saturday , but not without being tested in the field and with the bat. Chasing 288 , India were in trouble at 92 for 4 in 22.4 overs - the quickest they have been four down in seven matches - but were first revived and then driven home by Suresh Raina and MS Dhoni , who forged an alliance of 196 . That India had to chase the most runs scored off their attack in the tournament owed mostly to Brendan Taylor who scored a wonderful , confidence-coated and highly emotional 138 from 110 balls in his last international match. In the end , Taylor 's hundred was outdone by Raina 's first World Cup century , an energetic 110 from 104 balls . In pursuit of a tricky total , India suffered a poor start. Tinashe Panyangara removed the openers with 21 on the scorecard , both wickets owing to half-hearted shots. Rohit Sharma skied to cover and Shikhar Dhawan was bowled off an inside edge when cutting , and when Ajinkya Rahane was run out for 19 it left India at 71 for 3. Sikandar Raza was then given the ball ahead of the 23rd over and he started well , bowling Virat Kohli for 38 with a delivery that snuck around the batsman 's leg when he shaped to sweep. At 92 for 4 , India needed Dhoni and Raina to shore up the chase . Zimbabwe 's lack of potency with the ball always threatened to be their undoing and the pair did that , with a bit of help. After an uneasy start , during which he mistimed several shots off spin , Raina hit Sean Williams out of the attack with consecutive sixes and Dhoni was clinical in pouncing on Solomon Mire 's gentle medium-pace , targeting the short straight boundaries at Eden Park . Dhoni , batting for the fourth time in the tournament , harried between the wickets and sought to offset the bowlers by using his crease frequently. Raina got a big reprieve on 47 when he top-edged a sweep off Raza and Hamilton Masakadza made a mess at short fine leg , and duly used the chance to move past fifty off 67 balls with a boundary down the ground . The 50-run stand came up in 31 minutes and with the partisan crowd cheering every run , India whittled away at the target. Raina moved from 53 to his century in just 27 deliveries , pulling and cutting when offered room and also showing his delicate side with dabs wide of short third man. As Zimbabwe slacked , the bowling became pedestrian and Dhoni crashed full tosses and other such generous offerings to the boundary to finish on 85 from 76 balls . Earlier in the day , on a warm afternoon , India bowled out an opposing team for the sixth time this tournament but it was n't so straightforward. After failing to strike early against Ireland in Hamilton , India 's three pace bowlers each delivered a wicket in their opening spells to have Zimbabwe in trouble at 33 for 3 in 11 overs. Both openers were dismissed in 27 deliveries , Masakadza nicking Umesh Yadav for 2 and Chamu Chibhabha edging Mohammed Shami to first slip for 7. Mohit Sharma needed six deliveries to get onto the wicket 's tally , when Mire ( 9 ) poked limply and gave Dhoni his second catch . Dhoni used R Ashwin for the 12th over and then brought him back after 22 were bowled , by which time Taylor had settled in. He reverse-swept Ashwin for two boundaries to give the smattering of Zimbabwe supporters reason to clap , and with Williams put on 93 , Williams ' contribution being an energetic 57-ball 50. Taylor 's defence was assured from the time he middle the pacers , and once the pace was taken off the ball he nudged and flicked without risk. There was purpose to his approach . Dropped on 2 when Dhoni failed to reach an inside edge off Mohit , Williams was strongest when heaving and paddling the spinners , and three sixes off Ashwin was testament to his swift footwork and hand-eye coordination. Ashwin eventually got Williams in soft manner , chipping back a return catch . Craig Ervine was far from fluent initially - he made 10 off 28 balls - but he managed to support Taylor through a 109-run partnership off 80 balls in 63 minutes. Taylor 's special century came up with a lovely ramp off Shami that flew over third man for six , and the celebrations that followed were emphatic. Taylor walked towards the Zimbabwe dug-out , punching his fists and waving his bat. The landmark needed 99 balls . Taylor 's clinical hitting helped the team take 49 from the batting Powerplay and when he thumped Jadeja for three fours and two sixes during the 41st over it appeared he was going for a big score. But on 138 - just short of his previous best of 145 not out - Taylor lofted Mohit to mid-on. He walked off to plenty of applause , and soaked in the moment as he waved to the fans with one hand and was greeted by a standing dugout . From here , Zimbabwe were pulled back by Shami and Umesh who took three wickets each. More runs could have increased the scoreboard pressure on India , but Zimbabwe on the day just did n't have enough gas in the tank. India , as Raina and Dhoni proved , had plenty . Brief scores : India 288 for 4 in 48.4 overs ( Suresh Raina 110 not out , MS Dhoni 85 not out ) beat Zimbabwe 287 in 48.5 overs ( Brendan Taylor 138 , Sean Williams 50 ) by six wickets © Cricbuzz Tags
