Last throw of the dice for West Indies Sat , Mar 14 2015 Last updated on Saturday , 14 March , 2015 , 10 : 23 AM A handsome victory over the team still searching for its first win in a World Cup will keep West Indies in the reckoning for a place in the quarter-finals It 's only after registering a strong victory can they rely on the result between Pakistan and Ireland After their defeat to India , West Indies have had a long time to recuperate , and have been buoyed by the news of Chris Gayle being passed fit. © AFP Cloudy with a shower in spots : that 's how the weather in Napier has been predicted for Sunday , a state that can also describe the situation the West Indies are in ahead of their final 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup Pool B game against the United Arab Emirates on Sunday. Outside the top four in the points table currently , a handsome victory over the team still searching for its first win in a World Cup will keep West Indies in the reckoning for a place in the quarter-finals . It 's only after registering a strong victory can they rely on the result between Pakistan and Ireland , the last group game of the World Cup , and hope that Pakistan do them a favour by beating the team who have put them in this situation in the first place . While India and South Africa have already qualified for the knock-outs from group B , Pakistan , Ireland and West Indies are in a three-way battle to occupy the remaining two spots. Pakistan and Ireland both have six points apiece with the former having a slightly better net run rate. West Indies are placed below Ireland with four points , but their NRR is better than that of the William Porterfield-led side. In case West Indies win against UAE and Pakistan prevail against Ireland , both West Indies and Ireland will be tied with six points , but the Caribbean team will progress to the next round as they have a better NRR . If Ireland win against Pakistan and West Indies win against UAE , Pakistan and West Indies will finish with six points apiece but the chances of Pakistan sneaking through are better as their NRR is sightly higher than the Caribbean side. Hence , West Indies will be hoping to win big against UAE , which will better their chances of making it through to the knock-outs even if Pakistan end up on the losing side to Ireland. If either game finishes as a no-result , Pakistan and Ireland will enter the knock-outs . Venue : McLean Park , Napier
