Raina helps India gain from struggle Auckland , Sat , Mar 14 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Saturday , 14 March , 2015 , 12 : 32 PM Raina and Dhoni changed the tone of the chase and rendered Zimbabwe 's bowlers useless. © AFP They huffed , they puffed and they... well no , they did n't blow the house down , but the way the fans cheered Suresh Raina and MS Dhoni on during their rollicking 196-run partnership that ensured a sixth consecutive win , you almost forgot that India had been properly tested by Zimbabwe with the loss of their top four batsmen inside 23 overs . India not chasing 288 was never really in doubt , considering their batting might and Zimbabwe 's threadbare bowling , but there were some jitters when the first four wickets fell with 92 on the board. Virat Kohli 's 48-ball 38 suggested that steady accumulation would be the order of the day , with Ravindra Jadeja not really offering much inspiration as a batsman of late , but someone forgot to mention that to Raina and Dhoni , whose 196-run partnership spanned just 26 overs. After a shaky start - he was early into shots against Sean Williams ' left-arm spin and swept just wide of backward square leg - Raina moved into top gear , playing some fine shots through the onside , and Dhoni was his busy self , pumping between the wickets and surging with a flurry of boundaries to 85 from 76 deliveries . On an Eden Park surface that Dhoni felt " started to stop a bit " , Raina and Dhoni changed the tone of the chase and rendered Zimbabwe 's bowlers useless , apart from one moment when Raina should have been out on 47 except Hamilton Masakadza dropped a comfortable catch at short fine leg. Dhoni 's fluency was astonishing , walking across the stumps and nudging the ball wide of fielders or driving into the gaps with precision. When he hit the ball it was with trademark finesse and power ; and when Raina went across the line or played the pick-up shots , me made such crisp contact that it took the conditions out of the picture . To make a 67-ball half-century in your third innings in five matches , and after two failures , took some doing from Raina but the manner in which he sizzled to his first World Cup century in a further 27 deliveries was excellent. There were two big sixes and a crisp cover-driven four to give the partisan crowd reason to go mad , and when two delicate glides for further boundaries took Raina to 99. When he dropped the landmark single and raised an arm in celebration even before he had reached the other end , the significance of this knock was palpable on Raina 's face . When Raina plays like he did today , albeit against an attack like Zimbabwe 's , you begin to understand why he is rated so highly by Dhoni and the team management . " Winning , of course , was very important , but the knock by Raina was very crucial coming at No. 5 , " said Dhoni following the win. " More often than not you do n't get an opportunity. You get in to bat maybe after the 38th , 39th over if your top order is batting well and you have to slog it out , so you play the big shot , you get out , you do n't score too many runs , and at the end of the day when you get into the knockout stages you want to have runs under your belt. It does n't really matter how many runs , but once you get going , it just gives you that good feeling , which I feel is important in the knockout stages. " India 's captain then spoke of the effect Raina has on him when they bat together. " You ca n't really miss out the fact that somebody like Raina , how he batted at the other end also eases up the pressure from me , and he has done it quite a few times , " he said. " Raina and I gel well , but since 2008 we have n't had as many chances to bat together as I would have had with Yuvraj [ Singh ] or Gautam [ Gambhir ] . But when we have batted together , it has been good. He controls his game well , but there are times when I have to tell him to come down a couple gears because I see him perhaps getting ahead of himself. That makes it tough for me to keep up. But the way he can then switch from fifth or sixth gear upwards is really good. " India 's middle order were put under pressure by Zimbabwe up front , with Tinashe Panyangara removing Shikhar Dhawan and Rohit Sharma cheaply and Kohli and Ajinkya Rahane squandering busy starts , but as Dhoni put it , the team was able to make progress from that situation . " I think it could n't have been better in the sense if you 're playing the last game of the league stage , and if you get an easy win , you do n't get a lot out of that game , " he said. " What was good was the spinners were put under pressure , and also we lost quick wickets initially , and that actually put our middle and lower-middle order under pressure , so we gained a lot out of it. Overall that 's one of the main reasons why I would say it was a good game for us , and all the batsmen , also , they were under pressure , the ball was doing a bit , and started to stop a bit , also , and the bowlers , I felt they exploited it. They are bowling slower , they are using the slower deliveries really well. So overall a good game. " If India 's captain can term a game in which they conceded the most runs so far in the World Cup " a good game , " you know this team is confident. Zimbabwe are n't a very good ODI team , while India have made such rapid strides since Dhawan faced the first ball of their campaign in Adelaide that they are looking good to defend their World Cup title. This was their sixth win in the World Cup - and tenth when you factor in the 2011 edition - and it seems like ages ago that they stumbled through the preceding tri-series in Australia . Up next is Bangladesh at the MCG on March 19. The real tournament begins then for India , who have made all the right noises in storming into the knockouts. You can bet your bottom dollar that they have the bigger picture in sight , no matter what punches Bangladesh may throw at them . © Cricbuzz Tags
