Sublime Taylor exits world stage on bittersweet note Auckland , Sat , Mar 14 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Saturday , 14 March , 2015 , 02 : 41 PM There will be much that Taylor will miss , starting from " wearing this red shirt of mine " . © AFP When Brendan Taylor opened the face of his bat and ramped Mohammed Shami over third man 's head for six midway through the 39th over of Zimbabwe 's innings against India at Eden Park , he became the seventh batsman in the history of ODIs to score a century in his last international match. Before him , a motley crew of names such as Dennis Amiss , Clive Radley , Desmond Haynes , Feiko Kloppenburg , Klaas-Jan Noortwijk and James Marshall marked their final ODIs with centuries . It was an innings cultivated with precision and determination. Taylor drove , cut and lofted with such poise that India 's in-form bowlers were made to look distinctly ordinary. Against spin , he was twinkle-toed when coming out to loft over fielders or sweep the bowlers off their lines. R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja were reverse-swept with disdain ; later , after Taylor got to his hundred , he simply toyed with Jadeja. Such assured , authoritative batting has not been seen from a Zimbabwe batsman in ages. It was jaw-dropping . Upon reaching three figures , Taylor walked towards where his team-mates stood as one in the dug-out. He waved his bat , punched the air , and smiled widely. He looked so pleased , elated almost. His last match for Zimbabwe , and a superb century against the defending champions. Reason to celebrate , for sure. Unfortunately for Taylor and Zimbabwe , they lost the match. Taylor fell seven short of equalling his previous ODI best , out for 138 from 110 balls , and it was a bittersweet achievement . " I think so , yeah , " he replied when asked if that was the best he had batted in ODIs. " But if you 're not going to win , if you 're going to get a hundred and not win , then it does n't feel so sweet. But I guess a hundred in a World Cup is always pretty special. I think in terms of their bowling attack and what they did , they made it very difficult. So to get through the difficult periods and push on and get a hundred , that was a great feeling. It 's definitely up there , but unfortunately it 's still another losing cause. " When he was dismissed , Taylor walked with purpose back to the team , soaking in the applause from all corners of Eden Park. He waved a gloved hand to the fans , looked up to the sky , accepted all the greetings and congratulation from the Zimbabwean team and management. Before he reached the boundary edge , a few Indian players caught up with Taylor to congratulate him and wish him well for the future . " It was nice from some of the Indian guys , Shikhar [ Dhawan ] , Virat [ Kohli ] and Suresh [ Raina ] came up to me. That really was quite touching for me. They did n't have to do that. They 're very established players , and yeah , that was a very nice touch that they did , and then obviously my team-mates just wished me well and thanked me for the little bit that I 've contributed , " said Taylor. " But it 's all been with them , and it 's been enjoyable doing it with them. Yeah , it was pretty tough to swallow that , but it was a good feeling in a way. " Taylor spoke of the overwhelming response from the crowd , which was almost entirely backing India. " It 's just a testament to their cricket knowledge , " he said. " I think they just appreciate good cricket and they saw two teams playing some pretty entertaining stuff today. Obviously we knew who they were supporting , but they clapped when we put on a decent show. That was always nice to see. I was very overwhelmed the way they responded , and I 'm very appreciative for that. " Twenty-nine is no age to leave international cricket , but such are the financial concerns playing in Zimbabwe that Taylor , the father of two young boys , has had to leave his home country to seek a better life in England. Taylor now hopes to forge a successful career as a Kolpak player with Nottinghamshire , who have signed him for three years. He bows out of international cricket satisfied at having scored two centuries in a row to become the first Zimbabwe to do so in a World Cup , as well as the first to touch 400 runs in cricket 's showpiece event , but leaving good friends will be hard . " There 's definitely a sense of sadness. There 's a sense of disappointment in the way we 've gone about this tournament , sad in a way that I 'm leaving my team-mates , I 'm leaving my home country for a number of years , " he said. " That 's always going to be difficult to comprehend that. But I guess life goes on. You 're posed with difficult challenges and choices , but it 's a positive one that I 've taken , and I 'm looking forward to it. It 's going to be a good ride , and hopefully I can have some fairly decent success over there and try and make myself a better cricketer for it. " There will be much that Taylor will miss , starting from " wearing this red shirt of mine " . He spoke from the heart , there were no fumbles or choked-up replies . " I guess it 's every international cricketer 's dream is to put on their country 's shirt. That 's why we play the sport. We 're lucky enough , we 're privileged enough to do that. I will certainly miss that. I 'll miss my team-mates , the camaraderie that we have amongst each other , the good times , the bad times we go through , " he said. " That 's all part of it. I 've had it for 11 years and I would n't change that for anything. It 's been some special times through good and bad. " After answering his final question from the media , Taylor rose and started to walk off the dais. Many of the journalists gathered began to clap. Taylor acknowledged them with a shy raise of the hand. He will no doubt miss the feeling of being an international player , and Zimbabwe are poorer for that . © Cricbuzz
