India must now stay away from banana-peel situations Adelaide , Sat , Mar 14 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Tuesday , 24 March , 2015 , 09 : 32 AM India can not risk tempting fate one more time. © AFP If , a month ago , someone spoke about India sweeping to the top of the ICC Cricket World Cup Group B table ahead of South Africa , it would entailed some risk since Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's team had not exactly set the stage on fire in the Cartlon Mid Tri-series. But India have achieved that in great style with a clean slate of six wins on the trot . Nearly everything seems to have fallen in place - be it the intensity in preparation and during matches ; or , the bowling unit discovering that it can take all 10 wickets in each of the six games , or finding a batsman or a partnership for all situations ; and , daring to go into each game , barring one , with the same combination . Dhoni and the tour selectors have adopted the right tactics in not meddling with the team combination , except when Mohammed Shami 's knee needed a rest and Bhuvneshwar Kumar was given a game. The World Cup is not the stage on which too much tinkering with the team should be done , especially if a good balance has been found . That they have been able to ignore distractions , while enjoying one another 's performances , has been a remarkable facet of their journey in the World Cup. More importantly , the team management has not driven the players to exhaustion with their well-planned breaks between training sessions . After two authoritative wins against Pakistan here and South Africa in Melbourne , India have had to overcome two banana-peel situations against the West Indies in Perth and Zimbabwe in Auckland. These four games showed the mental make-up of a bunch of a squad that was determined to leave little gap between potential and performance . It is such a show of character that the team will need as they face Russian roulette in the knockout stage. There will be no room for error there , whether against Bangladesh or , if that match is won , against the winners of the Adelaide quarterfinal that features Australia . The good thing for India is that they will play the quarterfinal on a track that is quite like those at home - with even , rather than variable , bounce being the differentiating factor. India have the right bowling combination for such a pitch as South Africa found out not too long ago. Their batsmen have also geared up to the possible challenge of having to chase a target . Yet , India will need to sustain their intensity if they are to carry their momentum into the knockouts. It is just as well that they will return to the venue where they played the near-perfect game in demolishing South Africa before a massive sea of blue shirts. They can possibly find inspiration and seek a second wind to help them survive the danger of being knocked out . Of course , complacency can not be part of India 's countenance when they meet Bangladesh since Mahmudullah and Mushfiqur Rahim have been consistent with the bat while paceman Rubel Hossain and left-arm spinner Shakib Al Hasan have led the bowling with gusto. If India continue their smart preparation and play to potential , a Sydney semifinal is not beyond them . The team can cast its collective minds back to how it paid attention to detail during training when they reassembled in Adelaide after a short break in February. When they gather in Melbourne after a day 's rest in Auckland , they will need to revisit those things to fuel their desire to go the distance in the World Cup . Only then can they avert any more banana-peel situations. They have escaped those twice and can not risk tempting fate one more time . © Cricbuzz
