New Zealand failed to utilise Glenn Turner : John Parker Wellington , Sun , Mar 15 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Sunday , 15 March , 2015 , 09 : 29 AM Turner was booted out of cricket management in 2011 after six years on the national selection panel. © Getty The former New Zealand Test captain John Parker , who played played 36 Tests and 24 ODIs , is not one to mince words. He shoots straight , and when he talks you can feel the passion he has for his country 's cricket. He is something of a polarising figure in the country , perceived as being a good reader of the game and a campaigner for positive change , yet ready to court controversy. Two years ago , he was very nearly taken to court by Brendon McCullum and New Zealand 's coach , Mike Hesson . Parker , 64 , has been a fierce campaigner for change within New Zealand Cricket , particularly at board level. In 2013 , he released a 77-point document on radio that questioned decisions and circumstances that the board overlooked , largely in relation to the removal of Ross Taylor as captain. NZC dismissed Parker 's document saying it consisted " of hearsay , speculation and rumours and appears to concentrate almost entirely on attempting to re-litigate the issues surrounding the replacement of Ross Taylor as Black Caps captain " . David White , the NZC chief executive , weighed in too. " The allegations raised by John Parker and the anonymous group of critics are divisive , untrue and reflect poorly on them rather than the players they have wrongly attacked , " he said in a statement . The document nearly had legal repercussions for Parker , with McCullum 's lawyers ready to file proceedings in the Hamilton High Court over his references in connection to the Taylor controversy. Parker apologised to McCullum through a statement saying he never meant to discredit him , and the matter ended there . Parker says his concern was the lack of former internationals on the board and he has worked through New Zealand 's six major cricket associations to foster change. " We need more cricketing minds running cricket in New Zealand , " he tells Cricbuzz. " People who played cricket , saw cricket and lived cricket. The modern environment is such that there are so many commercial people involved in the sport that do n't actually understand the game. They are trying to change the sport for commercial purposes rather than for what is best for the sport. Glenn Turner and I had lunch with Don Bradman once and he said that we are the caretakers of the game , and that it 's not our right to change it. That is something that we should remember. While Twenty20 is fantastic , I 'm not sure that smaller grounds and rule changes are doing much for the game. Turning it more into baseball adaptations than true cricketing adaptations , perhaps. " Here , Parker laments the sidelining of former captain Turner from cricket administration. Turner , widely regarded as one of the shrewdest cricket minds in New Zealand , was booted out of cricket management in 2011 after six years on the national selection panel under yet another restructure by NZC. In 2012 , he was recruited by the board as one of two high-performance talent scouts , but there remains a line of thinking in local circles that he has been sidelined at the country 's loss . Dion Nash , the former New Zealand allrounder who spent four years on the national selection panel with Turner , had once described him as " great to work with , honest with no agendas and always open to intelligent debate " but the more interesting comment he made was that " if you disagree with him , you had better come with a strong argument and tell him why. If you do n't , he naturally assumes you agree. " Parker , who opened with Turner in Tests and shared a dressing room with him at Worcestershire , says that though he may not be everyone 's cup of tea , Turner 's insights would make New Zealand stronger. " Turner is somebody that New Zealand cricket never made full use of , never gained as much from as they could have and should have , " he says. " New Zealand is a very comfortable country. The economy is good , everybody has got a good sort of level of living. It 's not hard to live in New Zealand , so to change the ways of New Zealanders is difficult because the thinking is 'why should we change ? ' Glenn was the real first professional we had. He had battles with the national administrators and made a significant difference. When the next era of professionals came along , they got the benefits of what he had done . " And to this day , cricket has been his life. All the modern people think cricket 's changed , but he 's seen three generations of cricketers when these guys have only seen one , " he says. " Glenn 's got the lessons from three separate generations of cricket development and therefore can probably piece all of the benefits of it better than most. Certainly better than the young ones these days who do n't actually know what it was like to play 30 or 40 years ago. He 's a person that should be involved all the time in New Zealand cricket until the day he passes on. He 's smart enough to pick out the good and the bad and leave the bad behind and get on with what 's best for the future. But New Zealanders , at least in cricket , we are n't strong at that. In rugby we 're fantastic. In rowing we 're fantastic. But in cricket and a number of sports we 're very comfortable. " Parker , like many former New Zealand players , rates the current team highly but fears that it may be getting ahead of itself in terms of an all-out aggressive approach under McCullum and the management. " This New Zealand side is very good. It 's solid throughout , " he says. " Very exciting. It 's been developing for two or three years , starting under Ross Taylor who wanted all the youngsters to be in the team. Now it is starting to mature , but one fears that this team may start getting away from the basics of cricket. Getting into a baseball-type theme rather than an aggressive cricket mindset. The basics are basics for a reason. And the reason is that you are more likely to succeed by using good cricket basics. That does n't slow the game down , as AB de Villiers shows. It does n't slow down scoring , it speeds it up. There 's a cricket stroke or an adaption of a cricket stroke for every ball bowled and one hopes that New Zealand 's batting is n't getting too far away from those basics. " © Cricbuzz
