Roadshow : The Don continues to evoke awe , invoke thought Adelaide , Sun , Mar 15 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Sunday , 15 March , 2015 , 10 : 24 AM Image credit : G Rajaraman © Cricbuzz You can not be in this wonderful South Australian city - nay , anywhere in Australia - and not come under the influence of the legend of Sir Donald Bradman. You have to give it to Adelaide , however , that the city he chose to live in for much of his life celebrates him more than other major cities . Truth to tell , there really is nothing new that one can write about the Don. But there really can be no end to how he inspires respect and thought even 14 years after he passed away in his Kensington Park home. On Sunday , before the ICC World Cup Cricket match between Pakistan and Ireland , a visit to the Bradman Collection at the Adelaide Oval combined both . The magnificent bronze statue in a small park just outside the Eastern Gate by the King William Drive is a strong draw. There was evidence that he continues to inspire a new generation of boys when a lad , perhaps not even 10 years old , sought to replicate the stroke captured by the sculpture. It was guaranteed to cause goosebumps . And those had just about settled down on the walk to the South Plaza when one felt the strong and irresistible tug of the Bradman Collection , loaned by the State Library of South Australia and housed in the Riverbank Stand in Adelaide Oval. It was not the first visit there but as luck would have it , the Don sparked thoughts of innovation . The exhibits take you back in time , catching your eye but there is one which forces one to lend one 's ear. It is a tablet that plays voice recordings from his career through a radio that he had owned - the marvels of modern technology were at hand without disturbing the old lounge setting. You latch on each word that you can hear but in the current context - making room to play the inside-out shot over cover is as essential part of a batsman 's armoury - there is one clip that lingers in mind . " When you have seven men on the leg side and you add to the seven men the wicketkeeper and the bowler , it really makes nine. There 's not much case to play the ball on the on-side. So the only thing that I did was to try and counter it by moving towards the leg side , which technically of course is completely wrong. And try and hit the ball on to the off-side where there were no fieldsmen. This was a difficult thing and , contrary to what most people say , unfortunately , this exposed me to very much greater physical danger. But there was no alternative if one wanted to try and score runs persistently. Now I am afraid I did not make a very great success of it because it was a pretty impossible job. Frankly , there was no real counter to it. " Bradman was obviously speaking about his strategy to counter England captain Douglas Jardine 's decision to ask his pace bowlers to employ the leg theory - Bodyline as it came to be known. He was telling the listeners that had no option but to innovate. He finished with an average of 56.57 in an epochal series that threatened the Ashes and demanded statesmanship . Image credit : G Rajaraman © Cricbuzz For years , cricket has thrown up fascinating battles between bowlers and batsmen. Though ODI field restrictions now add to the challenges that bowlers face in terms of improved technique , better bats et al , bowlers have constantly improvised and held their own. The slow bouncer and the wide yorker have been thought of and executed with confidence . Pakistan 's Wasim Akram , easily the most creative of left-arm pacemen and one who bowled quick with guile that would do a classy spinner proud , says he did not even think about something like a slow bouncer. " I did bowl a slower ball but never thought about the slow bouncer , " he said on Sunday . Former Australian captain Allan Border wrote earlier this year that he would have dragged bowlers off the field had they bowled the slow bouncer. He also pointed out that former England allrounder Andrew Flintoff , who had retired from international sport only five years ago , had not even heard about it until recently. Yes indeed , the Don continues to evoke awe and inspire thinking. Like few others can . © Cricbuzz
