Wahab Riaz steals batsmen 's thunder , powers Pakistan to quarters Adelaide , Sun , Mar 15 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Sunday , 15 March , 2015 , 12 : 25 PM After Riaz 's 3 for 54 , Sarfraz Ahmed scored a ton to take Pakistan home. © AFP Pakistan 's greater experience in top bracket competition came in very handy as the team employed pressure to stifle Ireland by seven wickets on Sunday and earned themselves a place in the ICC Cricket World Cup quarterfinals. They finished third behind India and South Africa and just ahead of the West Indies who edged out Ireland on net run rate . Though Ireland skipper William Porterfield and their own opener Sarfraz Ahmed scored centuries , it was Wahab Riaz 's left-arm pace that made it easy for Pakistan. He has emerged Misbah-ul-Haq 's go-to man , claiming a big wicket in his third over , bowling two tight overs in the middle phase and showing himself as a good hand in the death overs . The match had acquired sharper contours of a knockout game after word came in just after 11 overs that the West Indies had beaten the United Arab Emirates in Napier and only a tied game here would ensure that both teams would knock the Caribbean team out of the World Cup. It was then that Riaz delivered his first blow by getting Ed Joyce out . Ireland struggled without having any of the top-order batsmen stay long enough at the wicket with their captain. Andy Balbirnie 's fourth-wicket stand with Porterfield did last 13.1 overs but the pair focussed more on repairing the damage caused by the loss of Joyce and Niall O'Brien in quick succession . Significantly , Porterfield got his 107 off 58 scoring shots , including 11 fours and a six. But even he will admit that playing as many as 73 dot balls , 42 of which came during his partnership with Balbirnie , was a few dot deliveries too many. The Ireland innings was unable to gain any momentum at any stage . It did seem that Ireland allowed the result in Napier to affect their nerves , a greater awareness that they had to post a big score needlessly adding to the pressure that was already there. The Pakistan bowlers kept taking wickets at frequent intervals but some of the Irish batsmen 's shot selection contributed to their downfall . Riaz was a key bowler in the final 10 overs when Pakistan allowed only a handful of runs and claimed five wickets. He claimed the wickets Kevin O'Brien with a sharp bouncer and , for variety , scalped John Mooney with a fuller one. With 14 wickets in the World Cup , the left-arm paceman has held Pakistan together along with Sohail Khan ( 11 wickets ) . Ireland needed to bowl out of their skins to stop Pakistan from winning the game and claiming the third spot. But well as new ball bowlers Alex Cusack and John Mooney bowled , Ireland did not have the attack to contain Misbah 's team. Sarfraz and his opening partner Ahmed Shehzad put up a century stand and found their touch . Sarfraz , kept out of the XI for the first four matches in the World Cup , watched Shehzad throw his wicket away , got Haris Sohail run out and then witnessed Misbah get out hit-wicket. But he added 101 not out to 49 against South Africa. It was an anchoring , rather than blazing , effort but it fetched him Pakistan 's first hundred in this World Cup competition . By finishing third in the group , Pakistan earned themselves a crack at Australia here on Friday. And , with four wins in-a-row , they will fancy carrying the momentum into the quarterfinals , especially on a track from which the home bowlers will not draw significant advantage . As for Ireland , they won hearts alright but were left wondering about the cruelty of sport. The finished level on points with the West Indies , a team they had beaten at the start of the campaign , but saw them sneak through on mathematical calculations. Ireland paid for big defeats at the hands of South Africa and India . But on Sunday , they largely had themselves to blame for succumbing to the twin pressures of the desperation to win and Pakistan 's steady bowling. A number of their batsmen played ill-advised strokes and paid the price with their wickets. It seemed like Joyce , Kevin O'Brien and Mooney had not paid attention to Misbah 's public statement about Riaz 's bowling skills . Brief scores : Ireland 237 all out in 50 overs ( Porterfield 107 ; Riaz 3/54 ) lose to Pakistan 241/3 in 46.1 overs ( Sarfraz 101 * , Shehzad 63 ; Cusack 1/43 ) by seven wickets © Cricbuzz Tags
