Stats : Bangladesh , Sangakkara create history while India continue their fine run Sun , Mar 15 2015 by Siddharth Vishwanathan Last updated on Sunday , 15 March , 2015 , 12 : 27 PM Bangladesh knocked England out of the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup . Kumar Sangakkara became the first batsman in ODI history to score four consecutive hundreds . Mahmudullah became the first Bangladesh player to score consecutive centuries in the World Cup . Sarfraz Ahmed became the first Pakistan wicketkeeper to score a hundred in the World Cup . Bangladesh created history by qualifying for the quarter-finals of the World Cup for the first time. © Getty After 42 matches of the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup , we finally have our quarter-final line-up. South Africa will take on Sri Lanka in Sydney on March 18 while India will take on Bangladesh in Melbourne on March 19. Australia will take on Pakistan in Adelaide on March 20 while the final quarter-final will feature New Zealand taking on West Indies in Wellington . There were plenty of statistical highlights in the fourth week of the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup. Kumar Sangakkara continued to shatter records while Mahmudullah gave Bangladesh plenty to smile. It was a big week for Bangladesh cricket as they knocked out England out of the tournament. It was a sad week for Zimbabwe cricket as Brendan Taylor , one of their most prominent batsman , retired from international cricket at the age of 29 but not before he had played the best knock of the World Cup . Following the end of the fourth week , here are the statistical highlights. The period taken into consideration is from the Bangladesh-England clash on March 09 till the final league game between Pakistan and Ireland on March 15 . - Mahmudullah became the first Bangladesh batsman to score a century in World Cups. He achieved the feat against England in Adelaide. This is Bangladesh 's first World Cup centurion after 30 matches in the World Cup . - The 141-run stand between Mahmudullah and Mushfiqur Rahim is the best fifth-wicket stand for Bangladesh in World Cups . - Bangladesh have now beaten England in the last two editions of the World Cup. Thanks to this win , Bangladesh have qualified for the quarter-finals for the first time while England have failed to reach the knock-outs for the fourth time in the last five editions . - Ireland stitched an 89-run stand for the opening wicket against India in Hamilton. This is the highest opening stand India have conceded in this edition of the World Cup . - Rohit Sharma reached 4000 ODI runs in the match against Ireland in Hamilton. He is the 14th Indian player to go past the landmark . - Shikhar Dhawan is the second Indian batsman after Sachin Tendulkar to score two 100s as opener for India in a single World Cup. Tendulkar did it twice . - Kumar Sangakkara became the first player in ODI history to score four consecutive centuries. He is the first player in World Cup history to score four hundreds in a World Cup. He is also the first overseas batsman to score five hundreds in Australia . - Kumar Sangakkara now has 500 ODI dismissals and 54 World Cup dismissals - both are records . - Ross Taylor went past 5000 ODI runs. He is the fourth New Zealand player to get past this landmark . - Mahmudullah became the first Bangladesh player to score consecutive centuries in the World Cup. He is only the second Bangladesh batsman after Shahriar Nafees to score two consecutive centuries in ODIs . - Brendan Taylor becomes the first Zimbabwe player to score two consecutive centuries in the World Cup. He also scored his eighth ODI century , the most by a Zimbabwe batsman in ODIs. He also managed to score 433 runs in the World Cup , the first time a Zimbabwe player has scored over 400 runs in an edition of the World Cup . - Zimbabwe hit 12 sixes in an innings. This is the most they have ever hit in an ODI innings . - Scotland have lost 13 consecutive matches in the World Cup . - The partnership between MS Dhoni and Suresh Raina is worth 196 runs , their best fifth-wicket stand for India in ODIs against Zimbabwe . - MS Dhoni has finished off a match with a six nine times , the most by a player in ODI history . - India bowled out an opposition for the sixth time in a row during the match against Zimbabwe. This is the first time that they have bowled an opposition out for six consecutive times in ODIs. This is the second time a team has bowled out an opposition six consecutive times in a World Cup , the first being South Africa in the 2011 edition . - Josh Davey has picked up 15 wickets in this edition of the World Cup , which is the most by a bowler from an Associate nation in a World Cup . - The 107-run stand between Amjad Javed and Nasir Aziz is the best seventh-wicket stand in World Cups. It equals the previous instance of 107 which was achieved against Ireland in Brisbane by Shaiman Anwar and Amjad Javed . - Sarfraz Ahmed is the first Pakistan wicketkeeper to score a century in the World Cup. He is also the first Pakistan batsman since Imran Nazir in 2007 to score a World Cup century. He is the first Pakistan batsman to score a hundred in this edition . © Cricbuzz Tags
