Sarfraz drought-ending hundred lifts weight off team 's shoulders Sun , Mar 15 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Sunday , 15 March , 2015 , 01 : 48 PM Sarfraz Ahmed scored Pakistan 's first century in eight years in the ICC Cricket World Cup , a 101 not out against Ireland The last World Cup century by a Pakistan batsman was 13 matches ago by Imran Nazir against Zimbabwe at Kingston on March 21 , 2007 Sarfraz scored Pakistan 's first century in eight years in the ICC Cricket World Cup , a 101 not out against Ireland. © Getty Pakistan captain Misbah-ul-Haq has said it was important from the team 's perspective that Umar Akmal blocked a few deliveries to let opener Sarfraz Ahmed scored Pakistan 's first century in eight years in the ICC Cricket World Cup , a 101 not out against Ireland. It was almost as if a massive weight had been lifted off the batsmen 's shoulders . " We were aware that none of our batsmen had scored a World Cup hundred since 2007 and kept exhorting the openers today to go for it , " he said. " Unfortunately , Ahmed Shehzad got out and when I went in to bat with Sarfraz , I told him to return only after getting a century. It was good that Umar Akmal gave him the chance to complete his century. " The last World Cup century by a Pakistan batsman was 13 matches ago by Imran Nazir against Zimbabwe at Kingston on March 21 , 2007. Ahmed Shehzad was tantalisingly run out for 93 against the United Arab Emirates in Napier on March 4 but there were no such dramas on Sunday , thanks to Umar Akmals decision to block five deliveries from John Mooney . Interestingly , Misbah revealed that the decision to play Sarfraz in the last two games was forced on the team by the failure of the specialist opening batsman , Nasir Jamshed. " We tried him in the warm up games in New Zealand and in the two ODIs there. Even in the practice matches before the World Cup and in the net , he found it hard to find his touch , " Misbah said . " Once we had tried our specialists in the World Cup , we had no choice ( but to give Sarfraz a chance ) . He made 49 against South Africa and today also , it was crucial to have a partnership at the top and I am happy Sarfraz played a good role , " the Pakistan captain said. " It was just a question of holding our nerves and doing the basics right. " Misbah said the Pakistan team was under pressure to win against the underdogs on Sunday. " Against a team like Ireland , the pressure is on a Test-playing nation as they have nothing to lose and everything to gain. I think this was a bigger game for us than the quarterfinal against Australia will be since they will start as favourites as hosts , " he said . He also suggest that Pakistan would have a slight advantage of knowing the track , the outfield and the boundaries at the Adelaide Oval as they had already played two matches here , the first against India and the final league game of the tournament against Ireland on Sunday. " We have the bowling skills for a pitch like this , " he said . The Pakistan skipper said the team would not rest on its oars after having won four games in-a-row and making it to the last eight. " We know that this is not the time to relax. We have the larger goal in mind. Making it to the quarterfinals is not an end in itself , " he said , using an urdu phrase abhi teer nahin maare hain to explain his point. We have to stand up and deliver. " He said the team would not look at how New Zealand and Sri Lanka handled the Australian attack. " We have our own way of playing them. If we play like we did today , we can compete with and beat anyone. We just need to back our bowlers with good batting performances , " he said , praising the variety of quick bowlers at his disposal . © Cricbuzz
