ICC is not for Full Members alone , says angry Porterfield Adelaide , Sun , Mar 15 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Sunday , 15 March , 2015 , 03 : 06 PM Porterfield also reacted strongly when it was suggested that Sunday 's could have been Ireland 's last World Cup game. © AFP Ireland skipper William Porterfield has said his team was not bitter at having lost out on a place in the ICC Cricket World Cup quarterfinals despite finishing level on points with the West Indies , a team they had beaten , but he could not resist taking a dig at the International Cricket Council 's decision to reduce the number of teams in the 2019 edition to 10 teams . " It 's obviously very difficult but it 's not something we 're very bitter about , " he told reporters on Sunday. " It 's just disappointing when you lose out on net run rate but we have to be divided or separated some way. We 're just disappointed obviously we 've lost this game today but overall we 're very happy with how we 've played in the competition. " Porterfield said that the three games that his team won were very close games. " We had a heavy defeat against South Africa. Obviously so did the West Indies and their net run rate took a hammering from there. But they obviously got their run rate up , " he said after the West Indies and Ireland finished with six points each but were separated by NRR ( -0.053 to -0.933 ) . He was not so gentle when it was put to him that perhaps the ICC wanted to make the World Cup more competitive as the teams from Associate members had not managed to make a serious dent , barring the odd upsets. " Well , then why not have 10 teams just play cricket and every other continent in the world not bother ? It 's as simple as that for me , " he shot back . 'It 's not a full member cricket world. ICC is International Cricket Council , so that 's global. They 've got to develop the game. As I said before , a world competition you play six , seven weeks out of 200-odd. The Champions Trophy is for the top eight sides and you 're just making a World Cup every other year for the top eight sides . " I do n't think it 's right. There 's a lot of countries out there that have done a lot of work over the last number of years. We 've shown what we can do when we get to these competitions with the minimal fixtures that we 've had. I think when we do get more fixtures then we 're only going to keep improving , and it 's going to be the same with every other country , " Porterfield said . " I think you 've got to keep growing the game , and you 've only got to probably go back to Ireland or if you could go back and be in Ireland for the last six weeks and showing them what 's going on there in terms of the cricket culture back home , then you 're going to see how we 're progressing even further . " If you cut World Cups from the agenda , then what 's the point really in us keep going. I think it 's the wrong move. I think a lot of people have spoken out that it is the wrong move. I do n't think the ICC can just ignore that if I 'm being honest. It 's going to be interesting to see what does happen , but I think it needs to change. " Porterfield also reacted strongly when it was suggested that Sunday 's could have been Ireland 's last World Cup game. " I 'd love to think it 's not our last World Cup game. Obviously it will be interesting to see if it did come out , what their ( ICC 's ) vision for the game is. Obviously we need to know that and everyone wants to know what their vision for the game is . " I think the next World Cup is two or three days longer than this World Cup is or something along those lines , so when you 've got four less teams and your competition drags out longer , that 's not an excuse. As I said before , the competition goes on for too long , if you 're cutting the teams by four and it goes on for even longer , then that 's not an excuse . " It 'll be interesting to see what their vision is and what value there is for other teams playing outside of the top 10 at the minute. I 'm sure they 're hoping everything blows over the next few weeks and they do n't hear much from us , and then it 's just as easy to brush it under the carpet , but I think something has to be done if they want to grow the game , " he said . © Cricbuzz Tags
