Suit up : Bert Vance , cricketer turned fashionista Wellington , Mon , Mar 16 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Monday , 16 March , 2015 , 04 : 34 AM Bert Vance conceded 77 runs in one over during a first-class match in 1990 . He now currently works in Vance Vivian , the family clothing business . Bert Vance is remembered for conceding 77 runs in one over during a first-class game. ( Credits - Jamie Alter ) © Cricbuzz If there are pub quizzes on cricket in this vast world of ours , one of the questions would surely be 'what is the most number of runs to come off one over ? ' The likely answers , one suspects , would be Malcolm Nash and Tilak Raj 's six-filled overs to Garry Sobers and Ravi Shastri ; but if anyone were to name Robert Vance 's incredible over from Christchurch in 1990 , they should be applauded. Though the over is not counted when one lists the most expensive overs of all time , Vance 's figures from Wellington 's match against Canterbury read 1-0-77-0. True story . Indeed , on the cricket field , Vance is perhaps best remembered for a dubious record - that of bowling one of first-class cricket 's oddest overs. In February 1990 , during Wellington 's last Shell Trophy match against hosts Canterbury , the ball was tossed to Vance with the idea being to give Canterbury an opportunity to go after him , thus giving Wellington the chance to pick up wickets . It did n't quite go to plan. Vance bowled a series of no-balls - only one of his first 17 were legitimate - and ended up conceding 77 runs in the over. As the former New Zealand batsman John Morrison remembers " Bert was n't the best option , in hindsight. I was the coach then , and we were trying to lure Canterbury into a close chase for runs which they 'd given up on. It ended up being his main claim to fame , unfortunately. " Vance has clearly moved on from that - " not a good day at all " - and is happily settled in his job suiting up customers at Vance Vivian on Lambton Quay - the country 's greatest employment density - in Wellington 's central business district . Cricket and clothing are in Vance 's blood. His late father Bob was a great cricket personality who played 41 first-class matches for Wellington and held various positions including chairman of New Zealand Cricket and was the big driver behind the realignment and upgrade of the Basin Reserve - thus The Vance Stand. Vance himself played four Tests and eight ODIs for New Zealand , and with 119 first-class matches between 1976 and 1991 , he is the second most-capped Wellington cricketer after Evan Gray ( 120 ) and third on the overall run charts with 6440 at an average of 34.43 . Bert Vance 's grandfather , George Vance , started Vance Vivian in 1924. ( Credits - Jamie Alter ) © Cricbuzz His grandfather George started the family clothing business , Vance Vivian , in 1924 and his late father continued it. It was , Vance admits , a cushion to fall back onto when he was n't playing cricket - " We did n't get paid much back then , and had to work when the games were n't on " - and when he retired. " I always wanted to play sport , but after that it was tough for some guys to find long-term employment. I was very fortunate to have the family business. " Vance - " Bert " to his team-mates - is 59 , but looks younger. Tall , fit , well dressed. He still wears his hair long. He and his staff have suited several famous cricketers , chiefly Sachin Tendulkar , Kapil Dev , Ravi Shastri , Mohammed Azharuddin and David Boon. Stephen Fleming is known to pop in. Politicians get measured at Vance Vivian too . Vance remembers the times that Indian players stopped by when on tour , chiefly Azharuddin. " Tendulkar was thorough , with an eye for detail. Did n't speak much , but when he did it was to the point , " he says. " Shastri ? Smooth operator. He could rock a suit , but Azharuddin was something else. He loved suits , no doubt about that. He would stop in whenever India were in town , and he would spend hours going through our material. Very particular , very keen on details. We 'd lay out all our material and he 'd choose whatever he fancied , and wed given him an estimate. He would go away for the matches , Tests and one-dayers . " This one time , he came back and we had all this clothes laid out for him. Quality suits. So he asked how much it came to , and we 'd obviously done our calculations , so I told him. Azhar reaches into his pocket and takes out a thick wad of cash. All US dollars. Now keep in mind , here in New Zealand we do n't deal much with cash , right ? Its mostly plastic. Thick stash , bundled up with a rubber band. He flicks through it and out come the bills. I had to quickly calculate what that was in New Zealand dollars. I think I probably went over by a couple hundred so that I did n't get short-changed , " says Vance with a chuckle. " Real slick customer , Azhar. " As we speak , two customers enter the store. Vance excuses himself and attends to the middle-aged Indian couple. " Good spenders , " he says . Vance does not stay in touch much with his former New Zealand team-mates , but every now and then players do pop into the store. He considers the Crowe brothers , Martin Snedden and Andrew Jones as friends , but warns that there 's no point tracking down Jones because he 's a recluse. " He was unique during our playing days , " recalls Vance. " He would disappear at the end of the season and show up only on the first day of training the next season. Just vanished , no contact and certainly nothing doing with the media. " Though he has distanced himself from cricket , Vance enjoy meeting former players. " Fleming was in here once , and I said to him 'mate , get me a job over there in the IPL , " he says jokingly . If you 're looking for a sharp suit in town , Vance is your man. And he 'll tell you a cricket story or two , free of charge . © Cricbuzz
