Herath in doubt for quarter-final : Reports Sydney , Mon , Mar 16 2015 Last updated on Monday , 16 March , 2015 , 05 : 40 AM Rangana Herath is in doubt for the quarter-final against South Africa due to a finger injury . Angelo Mathews is fit for the quarter-final after recovering from an Achilles niggle against Scotland in Hobart . Rangana Herath is in doubt for the quarter-final against South Africa , according to a report in the Sri Lanka Mirror. © Reuters In what could be a big blow for Sri Lanka in the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup quarter-final against South Africa in Sydney , left-arm spinner Rangana Herath is unlikely to be fit for the game as he continues his recovery from a finger injury . According to a report in the Sri Lanka Mirror , Herath did not bowl in practice on Sunday but took part in the training session at Blacktown Oval. Chief national selector Sanath Jayasuriya said Herath was finding it painful to bowl as the injury had not healed. " He had the stiches removed two days ago. But it might take more time for it to be fully healed. His chances of recovery in time for the crucial quarter-final are still less than 50 percent , " he said . Herath split a webbing on his left hand during Sri Lanka 's game against England in Wellington on March 01 and that forced him to miss Sri Lanka 's last two league games in the tournament against Australia and Scotland. However , sources within the Sri Lankan camp have stated that Herath is not likely to feature in the match as the injury has gotten infected and it is taking longer to heal . Jayasuriya added that the team inspected the pitch that was prepared for the match at the SCG and said Herath 's potential absence will hurt the team badly. " It will be the same wicket that had been used for the England-Afghanistan game on March 13. It shows signs of wear and tear and we expect it to be spin friendly , " he said . However , there was good news regarding skipper Angelo Mathews ' availability for the game. Mathews , who had gone off the field against Scotland in Hobart due to an Achilles niggle , has recovered and will feature in the match on Wednesday . South Africa and Sri Lanka will be squaring off in a World Cup for the fifth time with South Africa holding a 2-1 advantage over Sri Lanka with one match tied . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
