Bowlers make a mark in batsmen-friendly World Cup Mon , Mar 16 2015 by Boria Majumdar Last updated on Monday , 16 March , 2015 , 05 : 23 AM Mitchell Starc is the leading wicket-taker in the World Cup with 16 wickets Daniel Vettori has played a key role in stemming the run-flow Thrice has Mohammed Shami taken a three-wicket-haul this World Cup Mitchell Starc 's 16 wickets is the most by any bowler this tournament © Getty At a time when 350 is the new 250 and batsmen are playing shots that will soon force a redoing of the coaching manual , being a bowler is n't easy. Add to it the fact that you now have one extra fielder inside the circle and one less protection in the deep right through the innings. Finally , if you are a spinner you are always bowling with a newish ball with two balls being used in every match. 50-over cricket , as it stands , is a batsman 's delight. With heavy bats , they come and flay bowlers to all parts of the ground using new-age swords ( bats ) to nail the hapless men with the ball. It is an unequal contest and the fans , it appears , love to see the bowlers getting smashed . In such a scenario when the odds are heavily stacked against the bowlers , Mitchell Starc , Mohammed Shami and Daniel Vettori have simply been exceptional. For me , they have been the players of the World Cup so far. To Vettori first. A seasoned veteran of many battles , Vettori seems to just get better and better. While all and sundry are talking about Trent Boult and Tim Southee , it has been the calming influence of Vettori that has helped New Zealand wiggle out of trouble on more than one occasion . In the game against Australia , Warner and Watson were off to a near flier after the early dismissal of Finch and after the first 10 overs , it was all Australia. McCullum brings in Vettori and immediately the results show. The run-flow was stemmed and the batsmen started finding it immensely difficult to manoeuvre singles. Finally , one mistake from Watson and the partnership was broken ; and thereafter New Zealand managed to take control . More recently against Bangladesh , it was Vettori who took the Kiwis past the finishing line. With seven down anything could have happened and Bangladesh fielders were throwing themselves all over Seddon Park. Vettori , however , was n't flustered. With Southee for company , he managed to hit a few lusty blows and soon the Bangladesh resistance had given way and it was six out of six for New Zealand. With the tournament in its business end , New Zealand clearly is the team to beat with an attack comprising Southee , Boult and Vettori . Starc is the odd one in the pack. All eyes were on Mitchell Johnson and even James Faulkner but Starc has been the fast bowler of the tournament so far. The best case in point is the match against Sri Lanka. Chasing a mammoth 376 , the Sri Lankans were going hell for leather with Dilshan and Sangakkara batting like champions. So much so that Johnson conceded six fours in an over for the first time in his career. Compare Starc 's figures after his opening burst and the impact is clearly evident. Seven overs for 23 runs , Starc had bowled an exceptional spell. Secret - he has mastered the art of bowling yorkers at will. Not even the brilliant Sangakkara could get him away and in the knockouts he is clearly Michael Clarke 's go-to man. With 16 wickets , most in the tournament so far , Starc is doing what no other bowler has been able to - dictate terms to the batsmen. That more than anything has set him apart as a hero for Australia . Finally to Shami. Not many had given India a chance at the start of the tournament , due to their struggle throughout the Australian summer. Picking wickets at the start looked impossible and Australia posted huge totals as a result. Even in the tri-series , things were no different. Come the World Cup , however , it has been a different story. Six times out of six , India have bowled out the opposition. A stupendous achievement made possible largely because of the brilliance of Shami and Ravichandran Ashwin. Shami has picked up key wickets at the top of the order and every time there has been a partnership , Dhoni has turned to his premier fast bowler . Be it Chris Gayle or Younis Khan , Kevin O ' Brien or Sikandar Raza , Shami has been at the top of his game. Mixing the slower one with panache , he has been bowling in the mid-140s and getting reasonable bounce and movement in every match. Thrice this World Cup , he 's picked up three wickets in an innings and once a four-wicket-haul. India are clearly harbouring thoughts of not giving it back and if they have to do so , Shami will have to do it three more times . In what has been a tournament for batsmen , these three have just been too good. And their impact - New Zealand have topped the pool with six wins. India have done an encore and Australia just one behind. Do we need to say more ? © Cricbuzz
