South Africa wo n't be weighed down by World Cup history : Domingo Sydney , Mon , Mar 16 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Monday , 16 March , 2015 , 06 : 41 AM South Africa face Sri Lanka on Wednesday for semi-final spot Domingo hopes South Africa will take heart from that fact that they beat Sri Lanka when they toured them last season Russell Domingo : The legacy of 1992 has little bearing on how we want to play on Wednesday © Getty For a couple of years now , South Africa have approached many of their ODIs as if they were playing a knockout game in the ICC Cricket World Cup. Finally , on Wednesday , they will get to see whether such an attitude delivers them a milestone that has hung around their necks since they appeared on the world stage in 1992 . They are hoping to break new ground when they play against Sri Lanka in the first quarterfinal of the World Cup at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Wednesday they seek their maiden win in a knockout game under the Big Tent. They have lost in the semifinals in 1992 , 1999 and 2007 and the quarterfinals in 1996 and 2011 . The affable Proteas coach Russell Domingo told reporters at the SCG on Monday that the team would draw from all that it had done over the last year or so , including beating Sri Lanka in Sri Lanka last season rather than be caught up by the defeats of the past. " We want to focus on our skills and not focus too much on the opposition or the occasion , " he said . Excerpts : On whether the team has discussed this as a knockout game and its mental preparation : I honestly do n't think we need to speak about this being a knockout game. Everyone knows that this is one. But when the pressure points come , if we focus on our strategies and on our thinking , on what 's made us successful over the last year , on how we beat Sri Lanka when we toured them eight months ago , those things will be really important for us to focus on . On choking and its prevention : It has been part of South African cricket for a period of time. Every time we get to these events , it is going to be questioned. We have spoken about it , no doubt about it. We have faced the fact that in the past we have let opportunities slip and hopefully we would have learnt from the lessons the previous sides have made in events like this . By all means , we want to try and make sure that it does n't happen to us. At the end of the day , we just want to play good cricket. If the opportunity arises and somebody is in that stage of the game under pressure , we try and focus on things we have done really well and not get too caught up in what 's happened in the past . On whether this game can help South Africa exorcise the ghost of 1992 Sydney ? In 1992 , I was 16 years old. Allan Donald played in that game. There is nothing we can do about what happened in the past. All our energies are really focussed on what we need to do , leading into this game. When we get there on Wednesday , we need to make sure that we have prepared really well which we are in the process of doing. The legacy of 1992 has very little bearing on how we want to play our game on Wednesday . On whether he is happy with South Africa 's form : There is always room for improvement. South Africa find themselves in a tough situation that if they win all the games before the knockout , people question them. And if they do n't , then too people question them and it 's just something we have got to bear with. But we know we come with a clean slate. We have played some good cricket , some patchy cricket. But we come here knowing that if we play to the best of our ability on the day , we have a good chance of winning on Wednesday . On whether South Africa is peaking at the right time : We have spoken long and hard about playing the big games and the big moments really well. I am expecting a big performance from the guys on Wednesday. The guys are really up for peaking at the later stages of the competition. We have sort of not eased our way at it but probably have n't played the consistent brand of cricket that we would have wanted to. I am expecting that to happen on Wednesday . On Dale Steyn peaking nicely : He has bowled progressively better as the competition has gone. I thibearnk his pace has been up. The spell he bowled against Ireland , the spell he bowled against the UAE , I have got a feeling there is a big performance from Dale just around the corner. He is a champion bowler , he has led our attack for the last seven or eight years all over the world and it is a matter of time before he puts in a match-winning performance for us . On whether Quinton de Kock is mentally short : I am not a sports psychologist but I am not sure how a player can be perceived to be mentally short. It is a little bit nasty. I need to sit with the selectors today and we started the discussions yesterday about our starting XI , going forward. It is a tricky selection because on one the hand , we know Quinton has the ability to win games. He has had an outstanding year and a half and it is often difficult to have all six or seven batsmen firing and in form at the same time. You just have the gut feeling that Quinton has a big score round the corner . I remember a totally different area but Adam Gilchrist got a hundred in a final with a squash ball in his glove having not scored a run the entire campaign. I sort of have that feeling about Quinton , that he is just an innings away from playing a match-winning innings. Because Quinton de Kock gets a sniff , he can hurt the opposition. He has done well against Sri Lanka the last time he played them in Hambantota , got a hundred. He will have some good feelings about Sri Lanka . Even in the warm up game against Sri Lanka , five games ago , he got a good 60 that won us the game. I am sure he will have a good feeling against them. That 's the thing with coaching and selection , there is no exact science. You do n't exactly know what is going to happen. AB de Villiers could get a first-baller. Quinton could get 150. That is just the nature of the game , unfortunately. You just have to go with the gut feeling a lot of times . On their opponents , Sri Lanka : Sri Lanka are a very good side , there is no doubt about that. They have been playing some really good cricket of late. The record between the two teams shows that we are evenly matched over the years. We have won just about the same amount of games against one another. So we see a very tight contest. They obviously have got some in-form batsmen at the moment. They have leaked a few runs and they might probably have a few concerns with their bowling. But we know that we have been in these situations before and have won these games . On controlling Sri Lanka batsman Kumar Sangakkara : I dont know. He is in the form of his life ; he has got four hundreds. You 've got to think there is a low score waiting , I suppose. We have worked out some plans and some things that we feel we need to execute well against him , particularly when he gets to the wicket. We have discussed quite a bit over the last couple of days . On Sangakkara and AB de Villiers : I think , importantly , they are both really good guys. We actually had a cup of coffee with Kumar in Christchurch before the serious business started and just chatted about cricket. He is such a lovely , unassuming guy. AB de Villiers is very similar. They are both at the top of the game at the moment and playing really well. If the all-out focus is going to be on Sangakkara , then we are going to be under pressure because Sri Lanka have got some really good players. And if Sri Lanka are just focussing on de Villiers , it will suit us real nice as well because we also have some seriously good players in our ranks. So it is not just about those two players going forward . © Cricbuzz Tags
