New ODI rules affected Yuvraj 's bowling : Dhoni Mon , Mar 16 2015 Last updated on Monday , 16 March , 2015 , 09 : 36 AM MS Dhoni has revealed that the new fielding restrictions which were introduced in late 2012 affected Yuvraj Singh 's bowling Dhoni has previously compared Yuvraj 's role in the team to that of Raina , but says their different batting positions has meant they have had a different impact with their game The new fielding restrictions in ODI cricket meant part-time bowlers like Yuvraj Singh bowled fewer overs , thereby having lesser impact with his bowling. © AFP India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni has often spoken out against the new fielding restrictions put in place by the ICC which allows only four fielders outside the circle , but now he has revealed that the rules affected the bowling of many of India 's part-time bowlers , including 2011 World Cup winner Yuvraj Singh . While being known more for his explosive batting , it was Yuvraj 's left-arm spin that acccounted for 15 wickets during the tournament that was played with the old field restrictions. His all-round efforts fetched him the man of the tournament award , but the introduction of the new rules in late 2012 kept him away from bowling long spells . " If you see , after the rule change happened , Yuvi did n't bowl a lot , " Dhoni said in response when asked if Suresh Raina was being looked at in the same vein as Yuvraj in the current tournament. " We must admit that once the rule change happened , it did affect his bowling although he is a regular with the ball in T20s. " Dhoni went onto mention that the old rules allowed India to employ part-time spinners like Sachin Tendulkar and Virender Sehwag with greater success , a luxury which India have n't enjoyed over the last two years . " In the pre-field restriction days , Viru , Sachin and Yuvi used to bowl a lot and we depended on them , " he said. " But they were all part-timers and on good batting tracks , they would find it difficult to bowl well . " Like Raina is a good option if there is some help from the wicket. Also , he bowls a good line to the left-handers. I felt I needed him during the Ireland game. Like Shikhar ( Dhawan ) and Rohit ( Sharma ) are also part-timers but I can only use them when conditions are conducive. " Dhoni has previously compared Yuvraj 's role in the team to that of Raina , but says their different batting positions has meant they have had a different impact with their game . " If you see Yuvi 's career , he started at No 5 but as soon as he was doing well , he was batting at No 4 , " he said. " I guess from 2005 onwards , he has always batted at No 4 while Kaif was there at No 5 for sometime and I also batted in that position . " Now Raina bats at No 5 which is a key number in terms of the context of the game. So it will be difficult to compare , Yuvi and Raina as their batting numbers were not similar. " Dhoni pointed out that allrounders have not had the same impact in the 2015 World Cup as they did four years ago because they have n't had enough time to spend at the crease with the bat . " The allrounders have not got a lot of chance during this World Cup. If you compare with lot of allrounders [ Yuvraj , Dwayne Bravo ] , who played key roles during the last World Cup are not playing this time. Also an allrounder needs to get a chance to bat between the 30th and 35th overs. That gives him a chance to score a 50 and also bowl a decent number of overs , " he said . " That situation has n't come up till now in this World Cup. They have n't been challenged in their batting although they have got more exposed to bowling. Also every allrounder is not like Jacques Kallis batting at No 3. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
