Horn arrives to help SA overcome fear of the uncertain Sydney , Mon , Mar 16 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Monday , 16 March , 2015 , 11 : 04 AM South Africa have called upon leading explorer Mike Horn to enable them to overcome the fear of the uncertainty of the playoff stage Horn was associated with the Indian team that won the 2011 World Cup and the German football squad which won the 2014 FIFA World Cup Well-known explorer Mike Horn , who is consulting with the South African team , has a chat with David Miller ahead of their quarter-final against Sri Lanka. ( Pic : G Rajaraman ) © Cricbuzz South Africa are out to conquer new frontiers in the ICC Cricket World Cup this time. As a team that has never won a knock-out game , they have called upon leading explorer Mike Horn to enable them not only overcome the fear of the uncertainty of the playoff stage but also climb the summit on March 29 . Horn , 48 , was associated with the Indian team that won the ICC Cricket World Cup 2011 in the subcontinent and the German football squad which won the FIFA World Cup 2014 in Brazil. Horn has helped the Proteas before as well , most notably ahead of their tour of England in 2012 . " Mike Horn 's joined us. He has done a lot scarier things in the world than facing Dale Steyn or Morne Morkel , " coach Russell Domingo said on Monday. " He has done some extreme things and he will put it all in perspective for us over the next couple of days about what pressure is like and fear is like and being out of comfort zone . " He has been in these situations a lot of time with real life experiences , not just facing a cricket ball. And it is great to have his energy around. He has been with us before and has a lot energy , connects with players. It 's just great fun to have him with us , " Domingo said before heading to the team 's last net session before Wednesday 's quarter-final against Sri Lanka . Indeed , Horn 's connect with the players was there for all to see. He chipped in at the nets on Monday , chatting up with fearless left-handed batsman David Miller and throwing down a few deliveries to the consistent opener Hashim Amla. He showed that he was one the boys by carrying Miller 's bats to the dressing room when the left-hander stopped to sign autographs . But , given that South Africa have decided to cancel their scheduled training session on Tuesday , it is possible that the Proteas would spend a good part of the day with Horn. Of course , the Proteas players will be aware that they will need to keep their minds fresh for the skirmish with Sri Lanka . Domingo showed on Monday that South Africa have not hesitated to accept that their predecessors may have faltered in the knockout stages in World Cup competitions before. But they are striving hard to ensure that they go out on the park on Wednesday with a positive mindset rather than a defeatist attitude imposed on them by events of the past . " If the will to win becomes bigger than the fear to lose , I allow myself zero options , " he told the German football team on board a sail boat Pangaea ahead of the final of the FIFA World Cup in 2014. One of Horn 's most recent tweets reads : " History , some read it and some write it. Be the author. " Will AB de Villiers 's team find the inspiration to break new ground by posting their maiden victory in the knockout stage in 23 years of competition ? Will Wednesday be the first step towards a hat-trick for Horn - and , more importantly , a new high for the South African cricket team ? © Cricbuzz
