Road to the quarter-finals - India assert dominance in title defence from Pool B Mon , Mar 16 2015 Last updated on Tuesday , 17 March , 2015 , 12 : 29 AM Indian bowlers were able to bowl out their opposition every time in the league matches. © Getty As the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 moves in to the business end , the four teams from Pool B that have entered the quarter-finals is a mixed bag. India and South Africa have been the most consistent of the lot , so it was no surprise to see them book their respective places. However , the other two teams , Pakistan and West Indies , have been inconsistent. Both teams overcame a dodgy start to win crucial matches and make their way through to the final four. Here 's a summary of what their campaign so far has been like . India ( ( P - 6 , W - 6 , L - 0 , NR/Tie- 0 , Points - 12 , Position - 1 ) The defending champions have n't put a foot wrong in their process of retaining their title. Their batsmen have scored runs and more importantly , the bowlers have taken wickets in every match - becoming the only team in the tournament to get the opposition all out in every league game. In their high-voltage clash against Pakistan , Virat Kohli 's century and Mohammed Shami 's career-best 4/35 made it 6-0 against their Asian neighbours in World Cups. Shikhar Dhawan shrugged off his poor form with a match-winning 137 against South Africa and Ravichandran Ashwin 's 4 for 25 against UAE made in three in a row for India . They were made to stretch against the West Indies , but MS Dhoni 's calmness and Shami 's three-wicket haul got them over the line with a six-wicket win. An easy win followed against Ireland , in which Shami 's 3 for 41 reduced them to 227 after getting off to a good start. However , the Zimbabwe game , was the one where the India bowlers were taken to the cleaners courtesy. Brendan Taylor 's eight ODI ton in his final match for his country got them to 287 , but it was trumped by the so-far untested Indian middle-order. Suresh Raina 's maiden ODI ton , along with MS Dhoni 's unbeaten 85 allowed India , who were 92 for 4 at one stage , seal a six-wicket win and remain unbeaten . South Africa ( ( P - 6 , W - 4 , L - 2 , NR/Tie- 0 , Points - 8 , Position - 2 ) Coming into cricket 's mega-event as one of the favourites , South Africa endured a fairly decent league stage. After beating Zimbabwe by 62 runs in their tournament opener , South Africa 's loss to India was an eye-opener for their batsmen , none of whom could get going in the 300-plus chase. However , in the next game AB de Villiers blew away the West Indies with a belligerent 66-ball 162 to indicate that their batsmen were up and running as South Africa completed an impressive 257-run win . The Ireland game saw them become the first team in ODIs to notch up consecutive 400-plus totals , and another 200-run win boosted their net run rate to escalate them to the second spot in the Pool B table , where they eventually finished. Pakistan 's pacers halted their charge despite de Villiers ' brilliance , but another comprehensive win , by 146 runs against UAE ensured they finished with four wins from six matches . Pakistan ( ( P - 6 , W - 4 , L - 2 , NR/Tie- 0 , Points - 8 , Position - 3 ) In a bid to repeat their World Cup 1992 success that was hosted in the same continent , Pakistan came into the tournament on the back of a not-so-promising ODI record. They had incurred series losses to Sri Lanka , Australia and New Zealand twice , so when they began their World Cup campaign with losses to India and West Indies , not many backed them to last the distance. They went down by 76 runs in their much-anticipated clash against India and succumbed to an embarrassing 150-run loss to the West Indies . Their campaign finally took flight when they beat lesser-fancied sides such as UAE and Zimbabwe to keep their quarterfinal hopes alive and eventually finished the group stage with four wins , occupying third spot on the points table. They turned a corner with a morale-boosting win over South Africa at Eden Park. Sarfraz Ahmed 's return to the fold helped them turn over a new leaf and their pacers , despite their inexperience , made it possible for them to defend a modest total against South Africa . Pakistan 's unpredictability is what made it possible for them to clinch four straight wins after the defeats in the first two games. The virtual knockout against Ireland , as it turned out , was a cakewalk in the end . West Indies ( ( P - 6 , W - 3 , L - 3 , NR/Tie- 0 , Points - 6 , Position - 4 ) One of the most unpredictable teams , West Indies ' place in the quarter-finals was n't assured till their very last league game against the UAE. They were handed an upset in their opener , where Ireland gunned down 307 with almost four overs to spare , but bounced back with a win against Pakistan. Lendl Simmons ' half-century and Andre Russell 's 13-ball 42 got them to their second consecutive 300-plus total batting first after which Russell and Jerome Taylor shared six wickets to bundle Pakistan out for 160 . Chris Gayle 's record-shattering 215 broke a lot many records against Zimbabwe , and awarded West Indies a 72-run via D/L win. Tables turned in the next game and West Indies were given a taste of their own medicine when de Villiers gave the bowlers an outing to forget - Jason Holder conceded 104 in his ten overs after he went for 25 in his first five. A second loss pegged their campaign back a bit , since India and South Africa were going great guns and Pakistan were beginning to peek in at the right time . They made India push but came out second best to put their quarter-final spot in jeopardy all the more and in order to make it to the final eight , they not only needed to win against the UAE , but were required to do that convincingly and needed the Ireland-Pakistan fixture to not end in a tie. Pakistan emerged victorious and the Windies chased down UAE 's 176-run target inside 36 overs to book themselves a fourth place in Pool B . © Cricbuzz
