— William Porterfield ( @ purdy34 ) March 17 , 2015 Following a seven-wicket defeat by Pakistan on Sunday , Porterfield , when asked whether the ICC was justified in its decision looking at the Associate teams ' overall performance over the years , had fumed. " Well , then why not have 10 teams just play cricket and every other continent in the world not bother ? It 's as simple as that for me , " he said . He continued : " It 's not a full member cricket world. ICC is International Cricket Council , so that 's global. They 've got to develop the game. As I said before , a world competition you play six , seven weeks out of 200-odd. The Champions Trophy is for the top eight sides and you 're just making a World Cup every other year for the top eight sides . " I do n't think it 's right. There 's a lot of countries out there that have done a lot of work over the last number of years. We 've shown what we can do when we get to these competitions with the minimal fixtures that we 've had. I think when we do get more fixtures then we 're only going to keep improving , and it 's going to be the same with every other country . " I think you 've got to keep growing the game , and you 've only got to probably go back to Ireland or if you could go back and be in Ireland for the last six weeks and showing them what 's going on there in terms of the cricket culture back home , then you 're going to see how we 're progressing even further . " If you cut World Cups from the agenda , then what 's the point really in us keep going. I think it 's the wrong move. I think a lot of people have spoken out that it is the wrong move. I do n't think the ICC can just ignore that if I 'm being honest. It 's going to be interesting to see what does happen , but I think it needs to change. " The ICC 's decision has evoked a mixed response. India great Sachin Tendulkar is among the most notables to have lent his support to the Associate stance. " To play against them every four years [ is not enough ] and we need to look into it and look to encourage them more by making them play international games against the top sides. When you want the game to globalise , we need to encourage more and more teams to participate , obviously not at the cost of dropping the standard of play. We need to look at how we can get these guys to raise their standard of playing and I think the standard of playing is only going to rise when they start playing against the top sides , " the 41-year-old Tendulkar said earlier this month . © Cricbuzz
