'Buster ' West Indies seek KO punch over 'Tyson ' New Zealand Wellington , Wed , Mar 18 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Wednesday , 18 March , 2015 , 06 : 13 AM Darren Sammy says the pressure will be on New Zealand in the quarter-finals . He also said that West Indies do not have a bad record in knock-outs Darren Sammy believes the pressure will not be on West Indies in the quarter-finals. © Reuters What is is that draws us to West Indies cricket ? Is it the stories and videos and images of a glorious past , the anecdotes of days gone by , tales of the fiercest pace quartet in cricket history or the most feared batsman ever ? Or is it the Caribbean flair , the laid-back , jovial bubble that West Indian teams seem to be in , irrespective of what state their cricket is in ? The lyrical shades of their speech , the chatter that rides waves and never seems to crash into rocky crags but rather glides into the beach in its own magical splash ? Why do we have a soft spot for them , when we have other much stronger national loyalties ? Why do we continue to want them to do well even when they seem to have carved out a new low , when they looked crocked , disinterested , juxtaposed and when external and internal issues threaten to tear apart the very fabric that once made West Indies the most exciting team to take the field ? An hour-and-a-half at the Basin Reserve spent watching West Indies at training up close was another case to be drawn towards this West Indies team. A fun-filled environment had a distinct competitive edge , making for compelling viewing. The eyes trained on certain players , looking for hints of alleged rifts , chinks in certain players ' game , the extra shot of pace in Darren Sammy 's bowling , the flight from big Suleimann Benn , the naturally on-side game of Dwayne Smith who has struggled in the tournament , the bat speed of Andre Russell , Denesh Ramdin 's footwork , Jason Holder 's leadership when giving throw-downs for 40 minutes to team-mates , Curtly Ambrose 's tips from behind the bowlers . Sammy and Holder - who during the last game in Napier had an on-field skirmish after the captain took his bowler off after one over - engaged in friendly banter. Holder , after 40 minutes of giving throw-downs to Jonathan Carter , Johnson Charles and Ramdin , took the ball and bowled gentle offspin to Sammy when his turn to bat came. Sammy nudged , lapped and glanced. After each ball bowled , bowler and batsman sparred jovially . " That 's a single to the man at 45 , that 's two past the man at 60 , " cracked Sammy . " That 's a single only to you , " retorted Holder . " Ah come on , look at the field , ma'an. Forty-five , easily single ! That 's what I told ya ! I keep tellin ya , every time ! " Holder shooed him away disdainfully. " Just bowl , do n't talk , just bowl , " said Sammy with a wave of the glove . At an adjacent net , Marlon Samuels followed almost every delivery bowled to a team-mate with a quip or a dig. " Come on soljah , one for one , " he told Ramdin after the wicketkeeper-batsman crisply drove him the ball after he miscued one in the air. " Bob Marley 's grandson , straight from St Lucia , jammin ' it out , ma'an , jammin ' it out , he teased Charles after he dug out a series of yorkers . Russell got an earful or four from left-arm spinner Benn whenever he miscued a shot or was hurried into a cramped cut. When he hammered him back down the nets , Benn was forced to get out of the way and then stared down Russell , yacking away. Kemar Roach had plenty of laughs with Russell too while bowling . The practice session was followed by the customary media interaction , today 's candidate being Sammy who does press conferences well , and is good at lightening the mood. Even before he had answered a question , the allrounder had eased the setting. " We need to lighten up the place , it 's a bit dark , he said as he looked up at the ceiling. Then he clapped his hands , in a mock attempt to get the lights on , cuing chuckles from the small gathering of reporters. The mood was set . There seem to be some who are surprised that West Indies are here. True , they have not played very good cricket , as Sammy admitted , but the feeling that the team does not deserve to be here did not sit well with him. Yet , he smiled when replying to a question about what it felt to be in the quarter-finals and up against hosts New Zealand , who have won all six league matches , where apparently no one gave them a chance of getting . " Well , you are right ; as you guys put it , we were not supposed to be here , " he said. " But here we are. In a knockout game. So the pressure is on the home team. They are the favourites to win. So the question is : what are they going to do when they play West Indies in a knockout ? We 're not too bad in knockout games. We 're just going to enjoy it. As you guys put it , we were not supposed to be here , so this is a bonus. The pressure is not on us. " Then , the knockout line. " It 's a big match , but I remember some guy called Douglas beating Mike Tyson. It 's a case of that on Saturday. We always believed from the time that the tournament started that the first goal was to reach the quarter-finals , and after that you 're two knockout games from a World Cup final. We 've won two. It 's been a long time , but New Zealand has not won any. I watched the guys warm up today and it 's just a different feeling. The dressing room is pumped , I can feel it. It is the business end , you could win all your games in the round matches but come the knockouts , there 's no guarantee that you 're going to win. The guys know what 's at stake and we 're going to do everything in our powers to beat Mike Tyson. " The reference was to James 'Buster ' Douglas ' unforgettable boxing match against 'Iron Mike ' in Tokyo 25 years ago , when the overwhelming underdog and dubious contender - he was a 40-1 long shot - put Tyson on the mat for the first time in his professional career was an evocative analogy. That fight was the best of Douglas ' boxing career , and it came when hardly a soul had backed him to. West Indies are in search of a similarly underdog KO over an opposition that has been tipped to challenge Australia and India and South Africa for the title. And before the big bout , as happens ahead of all tasty boxing matches , Sammy was ready to spar verbally . " Any World Cup match , there 's always pressure involved. We know there 's pressure but it is not as big [ as ] on the home team. The more relaxed we are , the clearer we are , we West Indians. It 's a big occasion but we 're not going to be overwhelmed by it , " he said. " We 've played New Zealand in the quarter-finals of the World Twenty20 and when it came down to crunch time , we won. Same set of players. This time around it wo n't be any different. It will be a full house rooting for New Zealand , but we know that within out group once we do the basics well , we are unstoppable. We 've been very inconsistent , that 's a fact. But it 's a knockout game and if we put all the good things that we know we can do right , no team will beat us. And I know the other teams know that as well. " Years after that Japanese showdown , Douglas reflected on his success over Tyson and how he felt going into the bout. " It was just the dream to win. I knew if I just kept hitting him and hitting him that he would break. I knew that , but nobody listened , nobody believed me , " he said . Brendon McCullum 's New Zealand wo n't make the mistake that Tyson 's entourage did of ignoring the danger that the opposition poses. They will be wary. During the tournament , McCullum has spoken of teams such as West Indies and Pakistan and Sri Lanka being full of match-winners who can pull surprises on any given day . It 's over to the maroon corner now , to see what punches Sammy and West Indies bring to the ring on Saturday . © Cricbuzz Tags
