Taylor : Zimbabwe cricket is heading in wrong direction Harare , Wed , Mar 18 2015 Last updated on Wednesday , 18 March , 2015 , 07 : 50 AM Brendan Taylor retired from international cricket after the end of the World Cup game against India in Auckland . Taylor will play for Nottinghamshire as a Kolpak player . Brendan Taylor signed off his international career by smashing 138 off 110 balls against India in Auckland. © Agencies Brendan Taylor was one of the stars for Zimbabwe in the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup with 433 runs at an average of 72 with two hundreds. In Zimbabwe 's least league game , he smashed 138 off 110 balls against India in Auckland but it proved to be his last international match as he was signed by Nottinghamshire as a Kolpak player for three years in days heading into the match . Due to the contract , he retired from Zimbabwe Cricket but left with wonderful numbers. He scored 5258 runs with eight centuries and 1493 runs in 23 Tests. He became the only Zimbabwe player to score consecutive centuries in the World Cup and he also became the first Zimbabwe batsman to score over 400 runs in one edition of the World Cup . However , in an interview , Taylor has said the decision to quit international cricket was made in 2014 because the team was not heading in the right direction. During the series against Bangladesh in December 2014 , Zimbabwe were blanked 3-0 in the Tests and 5-0 in the ODIs. Taylor admitted that he had to think about his family 's financial stability during the team 's struggles . " To be honest , my decision was made before the World Cup , when we were in Bangladesh. For once , I struggled to enjoy my cricket. I felt we were not heading in the right direction as a team , and my main outcome of that was to make a decision that would benefit my kids and entire family , " he said . Speaking after the end of the match against India in Auckland , Taylor had said it was a privilege to represent Zimbabwe for 11 years. " I guess it is every international cricketer 's dream to put on their country 's shirt. That 's why we play the sport. I will certainly miss that. I 'll miss my teammates , the camaraderie that we have amongst each other , the good times , the bad times we go through. That 's all part of it. I 've had it for 11 years and I would n't change that for anything. " Brendan Taylor is the second Zimbabwe player to have retired from Zimbabwe cricket. Pace bowler Kyle Jarvis had retired from Zimbabwe at the age of 24 in 2013 due to a salary dispute between the Zimbabwe Cricket Board and the players. He is currently playing for Lancashire . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
