Bangladesh 's Rubel Hossain Gets Court Permission to Play World Cup Bangladesh 's Rubel Hossain Gets Court Permission to Play World Cup Rubel Hossain was sent to jail on January 8 after Bangladesh actress Naznin Akter Happy had filed a case of rape and false promise of marriage against the cricketer . Last updated on Wednesday , 14 January , 2015 22 : 21 IST Total Shares File photo : Rubel Hossain . © AFP A Dhaka court on Wednesday allowed cricketer Rubel Hossain to travel abroad to play in the World Cup which starts from February 14. Hossain was sent to jail after Bangladesh actress Naznin Akter Happy had filed a case of rape and false promise of marriage against the cricketer . The court of Dhaka Metropolitan Magistrate Rashed Talukder , in its order , also exempted Rubel from physical appearance during the hearings of the case. ( World Cup 2015 full squads ) This was in response to appeals filed by Rubel 's lawyers . The court order makes it possible for Rubel to play in the World Cup in Australia and New Zealand , starting Feb 14 . Rubel 's lawyer Maniruzzaman Asad , in two separate pleas , asked that the cricketer be allowed to fly abroad to play for the country and be exempted from physical appearance at court during hearings . The judge set February 2 as the date for filing the investigation report . Neither Rubel nor Happy were present at the court during the hearing Wednesday . Happy had filed a case in Mirpur Police Station on December 13 alleging that Rubel had engaged her in a physical relationship after promising her marriage . But Rubel claimed that Happy was " blackmailing " him . The High Court granted Rubel a four-week anticipatory bail on December 15 . He appeared before the Metropolitan Magistrate 's Court January 8 and sought an extension but the court sent him to prison instead . Uncertainty loomed large over the paceman 's participation in the World Cup . Rubel was released from prison three days later after Metropolitan Sessions Judge Court granted his bail plea Sunday . Happy also filed a writ petition in court on January 5 , seeking Rubel 's expulsion from the Bangladesh team . The court threw out her petition but Happy said she would file a case against the scrapping . The Bangladesh national cricket team will fly to Australia for the World Cup by January-end . Story first published on : Wednesday , 14 January 2015 21 : 13 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
