We believe we are going to go all the way : AB de Villiers Wed , Mar 18 2015 Last updated on Wednesday , 18 March , 2015 , 11 : 50 AM De Villiers said his men were mentally ready for this game. © AFP Now that South Africa have broken their knockout jinx in a World Cup following their thumping nine-wicket win against Sri Lanka in Sydney on Wednesday , captain AB de Villiers thinks his side is set to win its maiden trophy . South Africa , who went into the match with the dubious distinction of having never won a knockout game in World Cups , were on the money from the first ball and shot Sri Lanka out for 133 with spinners Imran Tahir and JP Duminy , who became the first Proteas player to take a World Cup hat-trick , sharing seven wickets between. Chasing an innocuous total , the Proteas got over the line in 18 overs and the chase also saw Quinton de Kock 's return to from as he scored 78 not out off 59 balls . De Villiers said his men were mentally ready for this game and that showed in the way they played. " I did n't have to say much , we were very motivated for this game. The guys were in a really good space and they rocked up mentally , " the Proteas captain said in the post-match presentation . However , when the coin fell in Sri Lanka 's favour and they decided to bat first on a pitch that is known to favour subcontinental teams , de Villiers looked a bit tense. But Kyle Abbott , who replaced the hamstrung Vernon Philander , removed Kusal Perera in the second over to set the tone for a great bowling performance. " I was going to bat first but I would have backed the batters to do a good job out there. It was incredible the job the bowlers did up front , " he said . " They [ spinners ] came in at a crucial stage , we kept them back until the 14-15th over , so for the two of them to come on against a subcontinental team at a crucial stage was really impressive. " De Villiers was also happy for de Kock who came into the match under tremendous pressure following scores of 7,7,12,1 , 0 and 26. " He 's been going through a tough time , you go through patches in your career , the coaches kept backing him , for him to pull it off with a really special knock and a couple of catches. " And it was then that de Villiers said what should greatly disturb at least South Africa 's semi-final opponents - the winners of the match between New Zealand and West Indies at Wellington on March 21. " I 'm quietly confident , I like to believe in big things. I truly believe we 're going to go all the way. For now we 're just going to enjoy a beer and think about what 's to come. " © Cricbuzz Tags
