Sangakkara 's timing deserts him on pitch but not off the field Sydney , Wed , Mar 18 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Tuesday , 24 March , 2015 , 09 : 31 AM Sangakkara bids adieu after the 1st quarterfinal at Sydney © AFP His timing , so sublime through the ICC Cricket World Cup , deserted him at the crease in the quarterfinal against South Africa on Wednesday but Kumar Sangakkara did admirably to stick to his decision to quit the ODI game. " I feel that the time is now and it 's right and the World Cup with a four-year wait in between is the right occasion to do it , " he said . The Sri Lankan legend said he would be more than happy if anyone said they had enjoyed playing against or with him. There would be more than a handful who will say that of him. For 15 years since moving from studying law to the dressing room in Galle , Sangakkara has been one of their pillars. He made 14234 runs in 404 ODIs , with 25 centuries and 93 half-centuries . He would have loved to end his career in a blaze a World Cup victory on March 29 but he could only helplessly and dissappointedly watch his fellow batsmen succumb to pressure on the big stage. " Today , I was frustrated that I not able to time the ball well. And when I did , I could not pierce the field , " he said. Surely , that was the only timing that he got wrong on Wednesday . About his decision to quit ODIs after scoring a record four World Cup centuries in-a-row , he said retiring from cricket was not about form. " To me , personally , it never is. I 'm sure I can play maybe a year or two more , but it 's time and place , " he said . " I 'm pretty happy with the decision I 've made. I 've tried to give everything I have when I 've played the game , and you know , the game goes on. You ca n't hold onto it and people should n't be too sentimental. I love the support that they 've given me over the years , and I 've become a lot better person and a player because of that support and love . " Yet , at the end of the day , I think a lot better players and greater players have gone , and the game has gone on and there are new players who take the mantle , and in my case it wo n't be any different , " Sangakkara said , drawing satisfaction from the awareness that his friend Mahela Jayawardena and he are leaving Sri Lanka cricket in a healthier state than before . " I definitely think so. I think if you take some of the younger players , if I can compare myself to them at the same age , I think these guys are quite way ahead of where I was , and that 's quite exciting when you really look at it because that means they 've got so much more left to learn and a lot more to give to Sri Lanka , " he said , glancing at his ODI career . " There 's no secret to playing good cricket. It 's making the best use of your talent , working as hard as you can in the nets , and then making the right decisions out in the middle. I definitely think Sri Lankan cricket has progressed leaps and bounds from where we started and from where I started , and I have no fear about the future of Sri Lankan cricket , " he said . Talking about Jayawardene , the other titan who had turned out in a Sri Lanka shirt for the last time , Sangakkara said it had been a great privilege playing with him. " He 's been , along with Aravinda de Silva , an exceptional player for Sri Lanka. He 's made a hundred in a lot of victories , and he 's given a lot on and off the field to the country. He 's going to be sorely missed. " Jayawardena could look back and really appreciate what he 's been given by the country and what he 's given it , he said. " There is a bit of relief when your career ends. The high-pressure situations , the warm-ups , the ice baths , the recovery sessions , all of that , all repeated over 16 , 17 years can get a bit much. Time to look at other things and other aspects of life , " he said . As he answered the final questions at the media interaction in Sinhalese on Wednesday night , Sangakkara sounded calm and , almost sagely. It is this serenity that makes many believe that when he does hang his boots finally after a season of Test cricket and two seasons with Surrey in English county cricket Sangakkara will probably be persuaded to extend his association with Sri Lanka Cricket. It would be a travesty if his knowledge and wisdom is not used for the betterment of cricket in the Emerald Island . © Cricbuzz Tags
