Can Bangladesh fans do a rain dance ? Wed , Mar 18 2015 by Boria Majumdar Last updated on Wednesday , 18 March , 2015 , 04 : 40 PM Rain , more than anything , is the talking point on the eve of this all important quarter final between India and Bangladesh. © AFP Can Bangladesh fans do a rain dance ? How much will rain benefit Bangladesh ? Can India play for rain or should they play for rain with 70 percent chance of showers in the afternoon/evening in Melbourne ? Rain , more than anything , is the talking point on the eve of this all important quarter final between India and Bangladesh . Many experts like Sourav Ganguly believe the match is the easiest possible quarter-final for India. In fact , India could not have asked for anything better. " Having beaten South Africa in the manner that they did India deserve an easy quarter-final. Bangladesh will find it very difficult to take on an in-form Indian team " , says Ganguly . However , the moment rain comes into the equation Ganguly seems apprehensive. Does it make Bangladesh more competitive ? If it is a curtailed game will it hurt the Indians ? He agrees. " Rain is Bangladesh 's best chance. The shorter the game the more competitive Bangladesh will be. In a curtailed match they will not need to sustain the momentum for 100 overs and that will help them. " Ganguly is right. For Bangladesh this is new territory. They have never been in a world Cup quarter-final before. For them the notion that they are just one step away from the semi-final is a daunting thought. It is enough to add to the pressure and enough to make the players nervous. India on the other hand have been there and done that. It is familiar territory. While not taking Bangladesh lightly , they will definitely be thinking of the semi-final and whether it is going to be Australia or Pakistan. But come rain , these equations will change. Shakib Al Hasan and Tamim Iqbal are real good T20 players and Mushfiqur Rahim and Mahmudullah , Bangladesh 's new pin up boy , are good hitters of the cricket ball. If Mahmudullah could take Trent Boult and Tim Southee on , there is no reason why he ca n't charge down to Umesh Yadav and Mohit Sharma. And rain will encourage him to do so with more confidence. There is no chance or rather much less chance of getting all out in a curtailed 30-over contest and it will mean license for the Bangladesh hitters to go hell for leather . It is a rather tricky situation for India to be in. Should they win the toss and bat first ? How do they guard against the weather gods ? How can they put Bangladesh under pressure from the start so that the rain advantage , if any , is nullified ? Does such a thing influence team selection or strategy and finally how do you improvise in situations like this ? That 's where MS Dhoni holds the key for India. Rather , the composure of Dhoni is what is most relevant to the situation. Come what may Dhoni will not feel flustered. He may well find it difficult to deal with the weather challenge but he will certainly not show it. Not a single Bangladesh player will understand what is going on in the mind of the Indian skipper. Amidst adversity he will still marshal his troops with the same poise and the same determination and that will go a long way to calming nerves in case there is an unnecessary interruption to proceedings. In unexpected situations , a top quality leader with nerves of steel is an absolute must and India has such a leader in Dhoni in the one-day format. He will indeed be ready for all sorts of scenarios even if he does n't publicly speak about them. He will have made his calculations and will have a plan B and perhaps even a C in place. That 's Dhoni for us and one of the reasons why India does so well in big ticket competitions . So can Bangladesh upset the applecart if there is rain ? Or is it a task that is well and truly beyond them ? Aminul Bulbul says this is indeed their best team and their best chance. " India is the world champion team and is playing brilliant cricket. But make no mistake this is Bangladesh 's best team and the way they played against England and New Zealand , they have the potential to push India and make the match really interesting. " With Sri Lanka losing in the manner that they did , any prediction will only look silly. In the game of glorious uncertainties anything can happen. What do they know of cricket that only cricket know ? © Cricbuzz
