Live Scores Full Scorecard If you have any comments or observations to make on the match , or maybe just about anything else on the World Cup , send in a tweet to @ blasphelod . We 'll do our best to feature your comment here. Alternatively , you can also send in any comments to submissions @ cricbuzz.com , or comment at the end of this Live Blog . © Getty Match-end Update : India storm to semis with crushing win The Kohli-Hossain face-off turned out to be a no-contest. India wrapped up the Bangladesh tail with minimal fuss. Bangladesh are bowled out for a paltry 193 , giving India a massive 109-run win. They will now meet the winner of the Australia- This is also MS Dhoni 's 100 ODI win as captain , making the victory all the more special. India have also become the first team ever to bowl out their opposition in seven consecutive World Cup games. Here 's the match report . That is it from me. I 'll be back soon , and I hope to have your company again , too . Cheers The only thing that matters now : Is the Kohli v Rubel Hossain match-up The match is done and dusted now , surely. The one thing that would still keep is glued is what will happen when Rubel Hossain comes face to face with Virat Kohli . User Comment : Can India make it seven in a row ? @ blasphelod now the question is whether # ind get rest of the wickets & bundle out oppn record 7th time in succession . I reckon they will Wicket : Bangladesh hopes evaporating Ravindra Jadeja added a his name to the wickets column as he had Shakib al Hasan out caught at short third man to leave Bangladesh reeling. They need a miracle to pull off a win from here. Mushi Rahim is still out there , and as much as I love the diminutive wicket-keeper batter , this one may be an ask that 's going to be out of reach . Musfiqur Rahim too departed soon after falls as Bdesh slid further. Umesh Yadav had the former Bangladesh captain top edge for Dhoni to take an easy catch . Update : Shami has two now Shami Ahmed added to his tally in the World Cup as he had Soumya Sarkar caught brilliantly by Dhoni to give India their fourth wicket. Sarkar had been hanging back waiting for the short ball , but when it eventually came , he could only poke at it awkwardly. The ball went off the phase of the bat to the the keeper 's left. Dhoni leaped to his left to pull off a stunning one-handed catch . India 's catching has been sublime in this World Cup , and their captain has just underlined that again . With that wicket , Shami has now become the highest wicket-taker in the World Cup. An Indian fast-bowler at the top of the bowlers ' list. Who would 've thought ? User Comment : — MAK ( @ Got_To_Say ) March 19 , 2015 Update : Sarkar-Mahmadullah stand ends thanks to Dhawan brilliance Soumya Sarkar and Mahmudullah , on the back of back-to-back hundreds against England and New Zealand , helped Bangladesh steady the ship with a patient stand. The duo added runs at a steady pace to help Bangladesh claw their way back into the game . However , their stand was ended when Mohd Shami had Mahmudullah out caught in the deep off his first over. The wicket belong more to Shikhar Dhawan to be honest as the India opener plucked out a catch just inches in front of the ropes , and toss the ball back in play before going beyond the boundary and stepping back in to complete the catch . It was the wicket India were desperate for. Mahmudullah departed for a 21 . The jury is still undecided whether Dhawan touched the ropes or not. What do you think ? The famous Mortaza-Taskin chestbump recreated : Right on cue : Well , MS Dhoni has answered my question . Spin is in. R Ashwin and Suresh Raina are in to the attack . Discussion : How soon should India jump to spin ? Bangladesh were able to pull the game back during India 's innings thanks to their slow bowlers . Should India go the same route and bring on R Ashwin and R Jadeja into the attack soon ? Send in a tweet to @ blasphelod . We 'll do our best to feature your comment here. Alternatively , you can also send in any comments to submissions @ cricbuzz.com , or comment at the end of this Live Blog . Wicket : Tamim falls early Chasing a big score , Bangladesh suffered their first setback in the 7th over... actually wait make that their first TWO setbacks in the 7th over . Tamim Iqbal fell off the third ball , edging Umesh Yadav to MS Dhoni behind the stumps. The catch was referred to the third umpire and replays clearly confirmed the ball nestling in Dhoni 's gloves after taking the edge. Before Bangladesh could even recover from their initial setback , India had their second wicket . Soumya Sarkar played the next ball towards point and was hesitant about taking a run. Imrul Kayes , at the other end , was apparently completely sure there was a run on offer. Jadeja got to the ball and rocketed in a throw to the bowlers end. Umesh Yadav completed the run out , with Kayes yards away from making the crease . Reaction : This tournament has been about defying the odds , we have done it before , we will do it again ! # Ban # riseofthetigers # CWC15 # INDvBAN — Bangladesh Cricket ( @ BCBtigers ) March 19 , 2015 Bangladesh are confident , and that should make this a rocking game . Innings update : India end up with 302/6 Rohit Sharma 's sublime 137 , while Suresh Raina also chipped in with a vital 65 as India ended with a strong total of 302/6. The total looked nigh impossible when Bangladesh had tightened the screws on the scoring during the middle phase. Rohit reined his shots in and look to rotate the strike. Suresh Raina , however , played a more free-flowing innings to help India overcome their early setbacks and put the side back on track . Ravindra Jadeja provided the fireworks late in the innings as India ended with a strong total of 302/6 . Record : Here 's one to be proud of There have been 10 Quarter Finals in World Cup history. 137 by Rohit Sharma is highest score by a batsman in these 10 games. # cwc15 # IndvBan — Mazher Arshad ( @ cricket_U ) March 19 , 2015 Update : Rohit falls after stunning knock Rohit Sharma lit up the Melbourne Cricket Ground with an insane display of strokeplay as India set their sights on a total in excess of 300. He was out in the 47th over , no answer to Taskin Ahmed 's accurate yorker . It was 137 off the the most sublime runs , that came at the most important time for India . Reaction : Andy Zaltzman Rohit cutting loose with some magically timed clumps. Neville Cardus ' typewriter would have exploded describing his strokeplay. Majestic . Update : Carnage ? From MS Dhoni ? Not while Rohit Sharma can paint the ground pretty with his batting eloquence . A stunning straight drive for six , followed by a full-blooded pull for four. He sums up the 46th over with an on-the-up cover drive and India have gone past the 260-run mark. And he hardly seems to be breaking sweat . © Getty Update : Talent meets performance When talent meets performance , this is what you get. Rohit Sharma has churned out one of his best knocks. When the chips were down , the bowling tough and when his partners were departing in quick succession , the right-hander has come up trumps with a sublime hundred . This was his second at the Melbourne Cricket Ground , following his hundred against Australia in the tri-series that preceded the World Cup . India lost Raina soon after , top-edging Masrafe Mortaza to the keeper , to depart for a 57-ball 65 . Who better than to have MS Dhoni walk in with a little over six overs to play ! This could be carnage ! Reaction : — Andy Zaltzman ( @ ZaltzCricket ) March 19 , 2015 Landmarks : Raina fifty lifts India How massive has Raina been to India 's cause today. The left-hander came in with India looking lost and desperate for a shot in the arm . Raina took the attack to Bangladesh , and went gung-ho in the powerplay helping India plunder 50 runs to put them in a position on dominance. He went on to bring up his fifty in the 41st over . Update : Joy , and then agony Rubel Hossain , seemingly , gave Bangladesh a massive wicket when he had the well-set Rohit Sharma out caught in the deep with a high full toss. What was a moment of joy soon transcended into tragedy as umpire Ian Gould deemed the ball too high to be called legal. A no ball was called , and Rohit survived . India had slammed fifty runs off the powerplay overs and were now in a dominating position . Update : Aaaaaand we 're back The rain break lasted all of 4 minutes. And maybe a few more seconds. India will look to continue their climb in run-scoring now . Discussion : Sweepstakes How much will India make ? I say 274 . The winner gets... well fame , and bragging rights over everyone else , including me , who sent in their opinion . Sakamuri Dilli Babu Chowdary on Facebook says 323. That would need some getting ! Update : Raina provides impetus India 's much-needed push for a bigger total came thanks to Suresh Raina. The left-hander was < strike > audacious < strike > confident enough to take on Shakib al Hasan and smash a six over long-on despite the presence of a fielder in the deep. Rohit too fed off the sudden boost in runs and slammed the former B'desh captain for a four with a well-struck slog-sweep . 29 runs came off the first three powerplay overs. India target has just been pushed to past the 260-run mark . Dang ! Here comes the rain , and the players are off . User Comment : I feel you , man @ blasphelod Sometimes I wish 2nt follow ckt My blood pressure lowers down everytime India plays crunch matches . # INDvsBAN # WontGiveItBack — tweeter bareilly ( @ tweet_bareilly ) March 19 , 2015 Update : Powerplay time Crucial time now. The powerplay can spell doom or dominance . Raina welcomes the phase with a sublime inside-out cover drive for four. India have made their intentions clear . What should their strategy be ? All out attack ? Have you say - Send in a tweet to @ blasphelod . We 'll do our best to feature your comment here. Alternatively , you can also send in any comments to submissions @ cricbuzz.com , or comment at the end of this Live Blog . Update : Rahane falls after Rohit fifty Bangladesh continue to keep chipping away at the Indian batting line-up. Ajinkya Rahane , having huffed and puffed his way to 19 off 36 deliveries , before getting frustrated and going for an ill-advised swipe over the top. He ended up miscuing the shot and gave Shakib al Hasan an easy catch at mid-off . India are sliding here.. . Update : India start to get a move on After consuming enough deliveries that could very well work as a tribute to Kumar Sangakkara 's knock yesterday , Ajinkya Rahane started to look for boundaries. He got one , though not intentionally , with the help of an outside edge off Taskin Ahmed to give India their first four after 66 deliveries . Rohit Sharma went on to bring up his 26th ODI fifty in the next over , and celebrated that with a superb flick for four soon after . Reaction : Good comeback by Bangladesh in the last 10 overs.Both these batsmen need 2 change the momentum & break the rhythm of the bowlers. # CWC2015 — VVS Laxman ( @ VVSLaxman281 ) March 19 , 2015 Discussion : How much should India set their sights on The wicket has slowed down considerably. Rain on the horizon. Virat Kohli and Shikhar Dhawan back in the hut. Back to the wall and all that kinda stuff.. . How much should India aim at getting from here on ? Send in a tweet to @ blasphelod. We 'll do our best to feature your comment here. Alternatively , you can also send in any comments to submissions @ cricbuzz.com , or comment at the end of this Live Blog . User Comment : @ blasphelod Rubel Hossain is young&excited.Good work2get a VKohli wkt bt what wrong he did was d send off. Remember H.Olanga ? # WaryNextTime — tweeter bareilly ( @ tweet_bareilly ) March 19 , 2015 The send off. © Getty Wicket : Rubel Hossain gets rid of Kohli Rubel Hossain has got rid of Virat Kohli. The game has suddenly come to life . The Bangladesh pacer , who was being waxed lyrical by Mark Waugh on air , has justified all the praise with a massive , massive wicket. He invited Kohli to drive with a full , wide delivery. Kohli obliged , edged behind to Mushfiqur Rahim and was given a fiery send off by the bowler . Bangladesh are pumping here. India need to calm things down. And who better to do that than Ajinkya Rahane ? Update : Shakib strikes for Bangladesh Well , who else but Shakib al Hasan. Bangladesh 's superstar with bat , ball and whatnot struck in his very first over , deceiving Shikhar 'Gabbar Singh ' Dhawan in flight to have him out stumped for 30. India 's first wicket falls with the score on 75 . Out walks Virat Kohli. The last time he played Bangladesh in the World Cup , he slammed a stunning century. En core anyone ? How would you bowl to Virat Kohli here ? Send in a tweet to @ blasphelod. We 'll do our best to feature your comment here. Alternatively , you can also send in any comments to submissions @ cricbuzz.com , or comment at the end of this Live Blog . Update : Spinners stall India progress Early signs that it could be spin to win at Melbourne today . India were progressing at a healthy rate and looked set to up the ante. However , Bangladesh fought back through their superb array of slower bowlers. The spinners were able to apply the breaks on India 's scoring. The defending champions could only manage to score at around the four-run mark since the spinners came into play . User Comment : India all the way India will win , because all 6 main batsmen are in form and 3 pacers , 2 spinners too are in sublime form. So there is no room for errors , which the other teams usually make . - Amuthan Saravanan Update : India maintain dominance Bangladesh 's bowling has been lukewarm at best. They have n't even fashioned an opportunity to end this opening stand yet. They will need to draw inspiration from somewhere and create an opening. India score 51/0 in their first powerplay . Update : Steady start for defending champions India made a steady start on a pitch that looks like a dream for batters. Rohit Sharma started off in style , creaming a square drive for a four off the first ball of the innings. He , along with Shikhar Dhawan , helped India score at a steady rate to take India off to a solid start . To makes matters worse for Bangladesh , Mashrafe Mortaza looks terribly unfit and his deliveries are barely just reaching the batsman. This could be a massive blow for Bangladesh if their captain comes up short . User Comment : Restrict India to under 270 @ blasphelod @ ImRo45 on his day is so fluent &operates so smoothly dat u dont realise if he is putting any effort.That 's where we say # Talent — tweeter bareilly ( @ tweet_bareilly ) March 19 , 2015 Well , just talent is a nebulous concept , you know . Discussion : Who will win and why ? I reckon India are just too strong and in some red-hot form to suffer a relapse of 2007 . What do you think ? Let us know.. . Send in a tweet to @ blasphelod. We 'll do our best to feature your comment here. Alternatively , you can also send in any comments to submissions @ cricbuzz.com , or comment at the end of this Live Blog . User Comment : @ blasphelod I seriously do n't understand why are Bangladesh persisting with imrul kayes ? After 3 failed scores he should be dropped — Moshiur Rahman ( @ MRRonly ) March 19 , 2015 Who should they have played instead ? Toss and Teams : India opt to bat Well , well... Is this going to be one of those 'Win toss , win match ' kind of games ? The odds a stacked heavily in favour of the teams batting first , but remember , rain spells are predicted later in the day , and with D/L coming into play , batting second may not really be such a big handicap . MS Dhoni won the toss and elected to bat first. India have , not surprisingly , gone in with the same starting XI that helped them complete the group stage in perfect fashion , with six wins out of six. Bangladesh made the one change from the side that nearly upset the high-flying New Zealanders , with Mashrafe Mortaza coming in for Taijul Islam . Captains ' Comments : Dhoni : 'We will bat first. Big match , put the runs on the board. Everyone is fit. What this unit has done is bowl in the right areas. We have to do this in the Test arena as well. There is scope of improvement. We will not treat Bangladesh as a small side. Not really , every team that has reached the quarterfinal is a good side.' Mortaza : 'Definitely we are proud. This is the first time we are playing a quarter-final , so we are very positive and hopefully we will give our best today. We would have liked to bat first as well. Only one change , I am coming in place of Taijul ( Islam ) . I am okay to go , hopefully I will give my best today. We have to stop twos and threes and we have to field well. We could n't field well against Sri Lanka here , so hopefully we will do well today. Rubel ( Hossain ) and Taskin ( Ahmed ) are bowling over 142kph , so hopefully they will come with a good plan and deliver.' Build Up : India look to assert dominance India 's intensity , determination and allround skills can combine to overpower a fearless Bangladesh in the quarterfinals of the WC 2015 at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on Thursday. But only if they embrace the right emotions and not complacency that can creep in at the thought of facing the 'easiest ' of the opponents in the round of eight . India return to the scene of one of their most memorable wins in this World Cup taming South Africa after beating Pakistan in their opening game in Adelaide. India have managed their recovery and training , including backroom preparation , well. They can add another victory on Thursday if they approach the match with due respect . That India are playing with immense confidence rather than arrogance was shown when they slipped past tricky situations against West Indies and Zimbabwe , thanks to Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's calming influence. They will be hoping that the top-order batsmen will not make the mistake of treating Bangladesh 's bowlers with a complacent demeanour . © Cricbuzz
