Wanted to bat as long as possible : Rohit Sharma Thu , Mar 19 2015 Last updated on Thursday , 19 March , 2015 , 01 : 15 PM Rohit Sharma 's 126-ball 137-run knock helped India beat Bangladesh by 109 runs in the quarter-final. © Getty Batting form of Rohit Sharma at the top of the order was a big worry for the Indian team heading in to their quarter-final match against Bangladesh in Melbourne , but with his 126-ball 137-run knock on Thursday , the 27-year-old seems to have hit his stride at the right time and rated his maiden World Cup century as one of his best . " I think it [ knock ] will be right up , because it came at an important situation when the team needed the most , " said Rohit during the post-match presentation and added that he was looking to occupy the crease for the maximum time. " I was determined , I wanted to bat as long as possible to put the team into a good situation and then bowlers did a fantastic job as they were doing in the league stages. Batting at the top of the order , it 's always important to get big hundreds. I 've been given that role to bat up the order , so I wanted to make the most out of it whenever I go in to bat. " After India posted 302 for the loss of six wickets , the bowlers did their job and bundled out Bangladesh for a paltry 193 runs and skipper MS Dhoni was pleased with his team 's all-round performance. " It has been good. We ca n't shy away from the fact that we are playing good cricket , but you ca n't forget that we were struggling in the ODI format just about a month ago , " said Dhoni , who notched up his 100th ODI win as captain with this win. " I think in the tournament , the bowlers have done the job well. You have to keep doing the small things and do everything right in the nets . " The approach of the batsmen has changed. In the last few overs , they can score a lot of runs. If the wicket is on the drier side , you may get a bit of reverse swing. If that does n't happen , the opposition will definitely score 300 , " added the skipper . On the other hand , Bangladesh captain Mushrafe Murtaza rued his team 's lack of experience in big-match situations , but praised his players for the effort they put in against the defending champions. " I think the boys should be very happy with their effort. Everyone back home should be happy as well , because most of our players have played just two or three ODIs , " said Murtaza. " The way we are performing at the moment , we do n't have enough experience to play that sort of condition. But the way we played , once we go back home , we know how we have to play there. So hopefully , this year will be very exciting for us. " With this win , India have stretched their winning streak to 11 in World Cups , and Rohit stressed on the need to sustain the winning momentum going forward. " Bowlers are taking wickets , batsmen are scoring runs and we just need to carry this momentum into the semis now . " We have spoken a lot about how momentum plays a huge role in winning tournaments and we have two more games to go now , hopefully we can carry the same momentum as we did today with us. We just need to do what we 've been doing , " he added . © Cricbuzz
