Fan blog : No joy greater than watching India win Thu , Mar 19 2015 Last updated on Thursday , 19 March , 2015 , 02 : 33 PM As always , MCG was a sea of blue outnumbering the Bangladeshi fans. © Getty As I sit down to write this blog , South Africa and India have progressed to the semi-finals of the ICC Cricket World Cup. The last couple of days have been nothing short of hectic between airports , bed-and-breakfast pads and cricket games. It has been worth every minute . My two favourite teams are in the semi-finals and I have had the fortune of watching both games with different sets of South African fans. They truly love their cricket and are very knowledgeable about the game. I saw a very tense South African fan fighting thoughts of their team possibly getting knocked out to a very relaxed , relieved fan . Wednesday allowed me to stand and applaud in person two of the greatest players to have graced the sport , Kumar Sangakkara and Mahela Jayawardena. Yes , they ended up on the losing side but they will go down as legends and , as true cricket fans , we can only admire their services to the game in general and Sri Lanka in particular. I was fortunate enough to have been there for their last ODI game . It was also fun to watch a relieved South African team engage with their fans , signing autographs , taking endless photos. In fact , Dale Steyn made sure he pressed the camera button on every selfie ! I can not recall many cricketers who have that kind of aura and sense of engagement . On Thursday , India played a fantastic game , looked hungry and ruthless and I can not recall a better Indian fielding side. They are truly setting the standards for young kids aspiring to play for India in the future. As always , MCG was a sea of blue outnumbering the Bangladeshi fans and made it look like a home game for India yet again . There is no joy that can match the feeling when watching India win. Every time the Indian flag is brought out before the start and the National Anthem is sung by the hundreds of fans , in tandem with the song being played on the public address system brings goosebumps and send shivers down the spine. There really is no better feeling in this world . The realisation is slowly starting to get to me that my journey in this tournament , beginning on the February 13 , will soon coming to an end. I will have to find ways to pack my bags and get back to Seattle at the end of this tournament . The sands of time have simply drifted by in this sea of excitement and as much I am looking forward to going home and seeing my friends and loved ones again , a sense of sadness is also starting to creep in. How will I ever describe to someone in its full description what it meant to be at an India vs Pakistan game or an Australia vs New Zealand game ? For me understanding the game of cricket has taken a different turn. I am not sure TV will ever do justice to what one experiences at a ground especially in a World Cup game . I would be lying if I were to say I am not nervous about India 's chances to reach the final. Yes there are a couple of quarterfinal games to be played but my mind has already raced forward to March 26th , the day India play their semi-final against Australia or Pakistan. I have already taken a peek at my ticket to the game many times. Irrespective of the result that small piece of paper history is going to go on my fridge as a reminder that I was there . For now , I am going to try and focus on Friday and try and keep my mind on Adelaide where the powerhouse of Australia take on a mercurial Pakistan. I am hoping for an absolute cracker of a game. It has been a fanstastic tournament and just keeps getting better. Will I have any fingernails left by the time the final is completed in a little over a week 's time ? ( Aanshul Gulati is soaking in the World Cup experience and has mixed feelings about returning to Seattle where he is a Strategic Sourcer for a leading mobile company ) . © Cricbuzz
