Saeed Ajmal Clears Unofficial Bowling Action Test Saeed Ajmal Clears Unofficial Bowling Action Test The private test was conducted in a laboratory in Edgbaston in England and Saeed Ajmal now needs to clear an official reassessment in an International Cricket Council ( ICC ) accredited laboratory in Chennai , India on January 24 . Last updated on Wednesday , 14 January , 2015 22 : 35 IST Total Shares File photo of Saeed Ajmal © AP Suspended Pakistan spinner Saeed Ajmal on Wednesday claimed to have cleared a private bowling action test , but it remains uncertain whether he will feature in next year 's World Cup. ( Also read : Saeed Ajmal forced to shut cricket academy due to extremists ) The private test was conducted in a laboratory in Edgbaston in England and Ajmal now needs to clear an official reassessment in an International Cricket Council ( ICC ) accredited laboratory in Chennai , India on January 24 . The 37-year-old was suspended over illegal bowling action in September last year and last month withdrew from the World Cup to be held in Australia and New Zealand in February-March . His withdrawal came after remedial work carried out under former Pakistan spinner Saqlain Mushtaq to alter his bowling action fell short . Ajmal said he is confident he can clear the official test after success in the private assessment . " I cleared the private test , " Ajmal told AFP. " The tests were conducted in Edgbaston and all my deliveries including the 'doosra ' ( his trademark swing ) were within 15 degrees. " Under the ICC rules all bowlers are allowed to straighten their bowling arm by 15 degrees , beyond which the action is deemed illegal . Ajmal 's first assessment in August last year revealed his arm extension went to 43 degrees . Ajmal , however , remained unsure whether he would be able to feature in the World Cup or not . " Look , I want to be as confident in my bowling as I was before ( suspension ) and want to be effective , so ( whether ) I can still play the World Cup or can not play , remains to be seen . " I want to do what is best for my country and for my team. " Pakistan Cricket Board chairman Shaharyar Khan on Tuesday ruled out Ajmal 's participation in the World Cup , saying it was too late to consider it . Ajmal was included in the preliminary 30-man squad for the World Cup , but after his withdrawal was dropped from the 15-man party announced last week . However , under the ICC rules all teams can replace a player before the February 7 deadline , a week before the World Cup starts . Pakistan team will play its first match against title-holders India in Adelaide on February 15 . Story first published on : Wednesday , 14 January 2015 21 : 30 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
