Dhoni pauses to reflect on 100 wins but focusses on road ahead Thu , Mar 19 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Thursday , 19 March , 2015 , 03 : 48 PM Dhoni said it has been an interesting journey , leading India in 100 victories in ODIs. © Getty India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni has said it has been an interesting journey , leading India in 100 victories in one-day internationals. " Though I was not captain in the 2007 World Cup , I remember us bowing out of the first round. Cricket is a great leveller. It brings us to the same spot again. When that happens , we learn to respect these things , " he said . Dhoni , who started his career as ODI captain in a series against Australia , has led the Indian team famously to title wins in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2011 in the sub-continent and the ICC Champions Trophy 2014 in England. He joins Australian 's Allan Border and Ricky Ponting as the only captains to have notched up 100 ODI victories . " We have struggled when we did n't have fast bowlers. Those who could bowl quick would not land the ball in the same areas consistently. Those who were accurate would not be quick. We have endured a lot. We have been searching for an allrounder for such a long time. We learnt to make do with what we have rather than worry about what we do n't have , " he said . Dhoni , though was focussed on getting his team to continue playing good cricket to realise its desire of making a return journey from Sydney to figure in the final of the ICC Cricket World Cup on March 29. " If we can lift our performance , we can definitely come back and play the final here , " he said . " It does n't matter because when it comes to the World Cup you have to play against each and every team and you have to win against each and every team , so it does n't really matter who wins. I think one of the most difficult things to do is to keep it simple. You start assessing everything because being human beings , that 's what we do better than some of the other animals . " We are good thinkers and overthinking can actually kill you , especially in an environment like this where there 's already so much pressure , especially if you are part of the Indian cricket team. It 's not only about doing well on the field. When you go out , you have to have proper dinner , otherwise the camera gets you there , also . " It 's a mix of everything , but keeping it simple helps. Playing good cricket and what it does , it just keeps your confidence going forward , just increases your confidence initially every game , and you just feel a bit more relaxed when you 're executing your plans. It 's a mix of everything , and I feel so far we have done well to keep it simple , " he said . Dhoni also said it was important that the team had different heroes in each of its seven victories. " If you attend batsmen 's meetings in any team , you will hear them being told that anyone getting a good start should go on to make a big score. So far , we have achieved that and reduced the pressure on the other batsmen. We will need to continue doing this , " he said . " Even our fast bowlers have done that in all the games. All three of them ( Umesh Yadav , Mohammed Shami and Mohit Sharma ) have bowled well , while the spinners have helped maintain the pressure in the middle overs even if they might not have picked up many wickets , " Dhoni said . " Umesh is the fastest of the trio , clocking 145 kmph now. He is bowling in great areas and has developed his wicket-taking abilities , " he said. " When you have that extra pace , the chances of making a batsmen commit mistakes are greater. His consistency to bowl in the same areas has evolved so much that he is now a regular part of the team , " added Dhoni . © Cricbuzz
