BCB to appeal against Aleem Dar 's no-ball call Fri , Mar 20 2015 Last updated on Friday , 20 March , 2015 , 07 : 37 AM Rohit Sharma , batting on 90 at that point , went on to score 137 The controversy sparked an outrage in several parts of Bangladesh Rohit 's hand came off the bat handle and he lobbed a catch straight to deep midwicket , but the umpire declared it a waist-high no ball. © Getty A day after umpire Aleem Dar 's controversial decision allowed Rohit Sharma to get away with a reprieve , Bangladesh Cricket Board ( BCB ) said it will file an appeal against the much-debated call. The incident has sparked an outrage in Bangladesh with people across different media platforms condemning Dar 's decision to term Rubel Hossain 's 'legal delivery ' a 'waist-high no-ball' . The event took place in the 40th over of the second quarter-final of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 between India and Bangladesh on Thursday. India had taken the Batting Powerplay and the first 4.3 overs had yielded 41 runs. Rohit - batting on 90 at that stage - lobbed the next delivery , a full toss from Rubel Hossian , straight down deep midwicket 's throat. But just as the bowler began to run towards the fielder to celebrate , Bangladesh were in for a horror call from umpire Dar , who declared it as a no-ball. Replays showed that Rohit had connected the ball in front of his stance , but the ball was on its way down. Rohit went onto score 137 off 126 balls as India posted 302 in Melbourne. It turned out to be the knock that took the match away from Bangladesh . BCB president Nazmul Hassan said that the importance of such a decision can not be undermined and that the board will do whatever is legally required. " Naturally we will appeal against these decisions in our report , " Hassan said. " It wo n't change the result , unfortunately. One wrong decision can make a huge difference in a World Cup quarter-final. I have had discussions with the ICC President ( Mustafa Kamal ) as no one else among the senior ( ICC ) officials were here in Melbourne. Legally what needs to be done , we will do it. " Mustafa Kamal , a former BCB president , termed it a 'poor decision ' and has demanded the ICC to look into the the matter. He asserted that an investigation will keep the umpires on their toes and prevent such incidents from taking place in future . " From what I have seen , the umpiring was very poor , " Kamal told reporters outside MCG. " There was no quality in the umpiring. It seemed as if they had gone into the match with something in mind. I am speaking as a fan , not as the ICC president. Umpires may make mistakes. The ICC will see if this was done deliberately. Everything is on record. The ICC has to investigate and inquire the issue to see if there 's anything to it. " " I am talking about the overall umpiring. I saw what all of you saw. Before I go to the next ICC board meeting , I ca n't speak on their behalf. We are an ICC member , right ? So we ca n't talk like this against the ICC. They will review it. Everyone is speaking against the umpires so definitely the ICC will find out whether there were any wrongdoings. " Many Bangladesh fans expressed their disappointment on Thursday and burnt effigies of both on-field umpires after Bangladesh were knocked out of the World Cup. Many former cricketers also took to Twitter and other social networking sites to criticise the decision. " That should have been a wicket. The ball was under the waist. He ( Aleem Dar ) has lost his confidence , " said Shane Warne who was commentating on TV . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
