ICC disappointed with Kamal comments ; says no-ball was a 50/50 call Fri , Mar 20 2015 Last updated on Friday , 20 March , 2015 , 11 : 40 AM © Agencies International Cricket Council ( ICC ) Chief Executive David Richardson today issued the following statement following comments about the match officials in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 quarter-final between Bangladesh and India in Melbourne on Thursday . " The ICC has noted Mr Mustafa Kamal 's comments , which are very unfortunate but made in his personal capacity. As an ICC President , he should have been more considerate in his criticism of ICC match officials , whose integrity can not be questioned. The no-ball decision was a 50-50 call. The spirit of the game dictates that the umpires decision is final and must be respected. Any suggestion that the match officials had 'an agenda ' or did anything other than perform to the best of their ability are baseless and are refuted in the strongest possible terms. We now look forward to an exciting last few matches of what has been a very successful and interesting ICC Cricket World Cup 2015. " Mustafa Kamal , a former BCB president and now ICC Chairman , had termed the 'no-ball ' call against Rubel Hossain a 'poor decision ' and has demanded the ICC to look into the the matter. He asserted that an investigation will keep the umpires on their toes and prevent such incidents from taking place in future . " From what I have seen , the umpiring was very poor , " Kamal told reporters outside MCG. " There was no quality in the umpiring. It seemed as if they had gone into the match with something in mind. I am speaking as a fan , not as the ICC president. Umpires may make mistakes. The ICC will see if this was done deliberately. Everything is on record. The ICC has to investigate and inquire the issue to see if there 's anything to it. " " I am talking about the overall umpiring. I saw what all of you saw. Before I go to the next ICC board meeting , I ca n't speak on their behalf. We are an ICC member , right ? So we ca n't talk like this against the ICC. They will review it. Everyone is speaking against the umpires so definitely the ICC will find out whether there were any wrongdoings. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
