Raina on cusp of changing perception as perennial journeyman Sydney , Sat , Mar 21 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Saturday , 21 March , 2015 , 05 : 36 AM He may not be the most graceful of left-handers but Suresh Raina has learnt to respond to his captain 's call at key moments Even those who do not appreciate his batsmanship and point to his five ODI centuries in 214 games will concede that Raina adds value to the team Suresh Raina has exemplified , if not engineered , India 's approach to the batting Powerplay in the World Cup. © AFP There is something alluring about Suresh Raina 's latent desire to be recognised among the greats of the modern ODI game. Time will tell if his wish will come true but , without being as spectacular as Yuvraj Singh - the man he so wants to emulate in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 - he has held his own with solid batting performances in crucial games . He may not be the most graceful of left-handers but he is effective ; he may not be the most artful of offspin bowlers but he has learnt to respond to his captain 's call at key moments. Above all , he has been a leader in his own right , especially in celebrating the success of his team-mates . He has shown an acute understanding of the game situation and played accordingly , providing thrust to the innings against Pakistan and Bangladesh while essaying a more sedate role in a crisis against Zimbabwe. Even those who do not appreciate his batsmanship and point to his having just five ODI centuries in 214 games will concede that Raina adds value to the team . The hint of frailty that he takes to the batting crease , especially against short-pitched bowling , may never quite leave him , even if he has picked up the art of negotiating those deliveries from Sourav Ganguly. He expects to be tested and is mentally more geared up now to deal with them , slapping the ball in front of square rather than pulling behind long leg . Importantly , he has exemplified , if not engineered , India 's approach to the batting Powerplay in the World Cup - they have not lost any wickets in this phase in any of the seven games so far. He has been at the crease in three key matches against Pakistan and Zimbabwe in the first and last league games and Bangladesh in the quarter-finals . Virat Kohli , Dhoni and Rohit Sharma , his partners on each of those occasions , will readily testify that Raina has been crucial in ensuring that India did not lose the initiative during the batting Powerplay. India have come to terms with the fact that the Powerplay is not all about flaying the willow at will . " It is not a lottery where you can always get 55-60 runs , " says captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni. " If you look for 35 to 40 and if you bat well , you will end up getting 45 runs. It also gives you a bit of momentum going into the slog overs with two set batsmen. In the last few games that 's what we have done , not aimed too high , but played proper cricketing shots. " Dhoni also praised Raina 's approach in the World Cup. " He is a natural strokemaker. More often than not , he strikes quite early. It 's always good to have somebody like him batting at No 5 but I think how they ( Raina and Rohit Sharma ) took the game forward ( against Bangladesh ) was very crucial because we could have ended up with 50 runs less. " he said . Raina 's hundred against Zimbabwe was important for the team to retains its clean slate but his half-centuries against Pakistan and Bangladesh were no less important , his controlled aggression adding value to the centuries by Kohli and Rohit Sharma and helping India get to the 300-run mark in those games . He was the one who sprinted down the length of the pitch and more to greet Kohli in Adelaide and Rohit Sharma in Melbourne when they got to their milestones , a pattern that was followed by Ajinkya Rahane when Shikhar Dhawan made his hundred against South Africa. It was his fortune that the man they call 'Captain Cool ' was at the other end when he himself got his 100 . Come to think of it , the left-hander may not have the spectacular qualities of a Yuvraj Singh - flair , persona and presence - but as Suresh Raina , he is effervescent , effective and efficient. And that has held the team in good stead as it has secured seven straight victories in the World Cup and looks to add two more big wins over the next eight days . If he can contribute in the semi-final against Australia in Sydney on March 26 and , if India win that game as indeed they believe they can , he must back that up with another solid effort in the title clash on March 29 to be able to realise his wish to be rated among the greats of the modern ODI game , rather than be perceived only as the perennial journeyman . © Cricbuzz
