Guptill 237 flattens West Indies Wellington , Sat , Mar 21 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Saturday , 21 March , 2015 , 08 : 23 AM Guptill smashed his way to the second-highest individual score in ODI history. © AFP What had the potential to be a tricky encounter turned out to be one-way traffic , with the result of the fourth and final quarter-final decided after Martin Guptill smashed his way to the second-highest individual score in ODI history. Batting with a fluency rarely seen from him on the international stage , Guptill clouted 24 fours and 11 sixes to remain unbeaten on 237 from 163 balls as New Zealand made 393 for 6 , towering over his team-mates , none of whom crossed 42 . Crippled by Trent Boult 's four wickets in ten unbroken overs , which made him the leading bowler in the tournament , West Indies never recovered in their chase and crashed to 250 in 30.3 overs , sending New Zealand to meet South Africa in Auckland riding on a 143-run victory. The sole bright spot for West Indies , if one can term it that , was Chris Gayle 's 33-ball 61 which may have been his last innings in ODIs if his bat-waving exit was anything to go by . The serpentine lines of Kiwi fans that filed into Westpac Stadium on Saturday would have loved a Brendon McCullum special , but what they got was much , much more memorable from Guptill. In fact , it was unforgettable. The resurgent New Zealand opener , who came into this World Cup quarter-final with scores of 57 and 105 after a lean run , made West Indies pay for dropping him on 4 and coasted his way to a fine hundred before accelerating after he reached the landmark , clubbing his way to the sixth double-hundred in ODI cricket . Catches win matches , goes the old adage , and this was where West Indies lost this match. Guptill got a life in the first over when Marlon Samuels grassed an offering at a catchable height at square leg , and how he made West Indies pay. Despite the loss of McCullum for 12 , total mistiming a big shot to be well taken by Jason Holder running from mid-off , New Zealand galloped along thanks to Guptill. His driving and cutting were particularly crisp - his first three boundaries were lovely straight drives - and when the quicks veered onto his pads Guptill clipped wide of slow-moving fielders. He was alert to which balls were there to be punched , and played shots to the boundary in the first , third , fifth , ninth , 11th , 19th , 21st , 23rd , 30th and 33rd overs before bunting a single to long-on for his century , off 111 deliveries . Such excellent manoeuvring of the West Indian attack made up for the loss of Kane Williamson for 33 , and a sluggish Ross Taylor , who made 42 from 61 balls. With Taylor , Guptill put on 143 , an alliance forged from quick singles and a generous dose of wide balls outside off stump which were steered and cut away. Guptill was by far the most fluent of the New Zealand batsman , getting over the bounce to glide and steer and , when in the mood , hit over the top with control . Once he secured his hundred , Guptill moved to 200 in just 41 balls with a flurry of shots , the pick of which were two sixes off Holder in the 45th over - a golf tee over cow corner and a stunning uppercut over point. By this time the fans were cheering his name - " Martin Guptill ! Martin Guptill ! " - and the batsman fed off the adrenalin to keep them delirious. When he whipped Russell off his hips for four in the 46th over - which included twin sixes for Grant Elliott - Guptill went past his previous best of 189 * . Moments later , he smashed Russell past mid-off to get to 200 , and celebrated with a six and two more fours. By now it was just bullying . Such effortless hitting overshadowed Corey Anderson 's exit for 15 and an 11-ball 27 from Elliott , and before he was done Guptill dumped a 110-meter six onto the stadium roof in a 50th over that cost 20 . It took New Zealand eight deliveries to strike in the field. With his second ball , Boult knocked back Johnson Charles ' off stump and in his third over he got Lendl Simmons to nick to second slip. At 27 for 2 the boat was rocking , but over the next 15 minutes New Zealand were rattled as Gayle and Samuels added 50 run in 20 balls , with Gayle swiping Daniel Vettori for three successive sixes . It was Vettori , however , who snapped that energetic stand. Leaping up at third man , he intercepted a Samuels cut off Boult with one hand in stunning manner. Moments later , Boult thudded a vicious in-cutter into Denesh Ramdin 's pads and West Indies were 80 for 4 in 9.5 overs . Gayle 's approach was to swing at every few deliveries , essentially those on a length , and this fetched him eight sixes and two fours until one swipe too many ended his stay. The successful bowler was Adam Milne , recalled in place of Mitchell McClenaghan , with a delivery that clocked 149.1kph. Darren Sammy struck a few pesky shots during his 27 before he fell to Anderson 's first ball , top-edging to Luke Ronchi , and Holder heaved wonderfully to dent Vettori and Tim Southee 's figures , yet they were minor irritants in an otherwise clinical victory. West Indies ' run rate when they were all out was 8.20 , but too many wickets to Boult had made the difference . Brief scores : New Zealand 393 for 6 in 50 overs ( Martin Guptill 237 * ) beat West Indies 251 in 30.4 overs ( Chris Gayle 61 , Trent Boult 4/44 ) by 143 runs © Cricbuzz Tags
