Hazlewood : Summer dominance to influence India semis Sat , Mar 21 2015 Last updated on Saturday , 21 March , 2015 , 09 : 53 AM Josh Hazlewood was crucial in Australia 's quarterfinal win. © Getty Australia medium pacer Josh Hazlewood reckons that their dominance over India in the Test series and the triangular series before the ICC World Cup will have a lot of bearing on the semi-final between the two teams at the Sydney Cricket Ground on March 26 . " We 've obviously played them a lot this summer in both formats so I 'd say we have the wood over them a little bit in that regard , winning the tri-series [ where they beat India in one match and another ended in a wash-out ] , so we 'll be doing our homework , doing our normal thing and getting prepared , " Hazlewood , who played an important role in Australia 's quarterfinal win over Pakistan at the Adelaide Oval on Friday , said . " [ But a ] lot of their players have been playing for a while so they 've got that experience in big tournaments , and I think they really peak at the right time , so they 'll be really tough work on Thursday. " Hazlewood was brought back for the quarterfinal in place of Pat Cummins and justified the team management 's decision by taking 4 for 35. With the Sydney pitch likely to assist the spinners , he may have to sit out of the match for left-arm spinner Xavier Doherty . " I hope I 've gone a long way to doing that [ as to cementing his spot ] , but you never know with conditions at the SCG , they could be dry and suit a spinner , " the 24-year-old said . " I was obviously pretty happy with how I bowled straight up with the new ball [ against Pakistan ] and got most of my overs out then , but I was happy to come back for those couple of other spells and take wickets and keep the ball rolling. " India , who eventually lost the Test series 2-0 , played the fourth and last encounter at the SCG in January and picked up their second successive draw in conditions similar to those back home. Hazlewood was hopeful that pitch curator Tom Parker will build a pacer-friendly track this time . " He [ Parker ] did n't do us any favours in the Test match there , but we 'd obviously like some grass on to suit our quicks , " Hazlewood said . " As 'Pup ' [ Michael Clarke ] said , it would help us , with them having a couple of spinners and us favouring the quicks. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
