Martin Guptill : Double-hundred has n't sunk in yet Wellington , Sat , Mar 21 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Saturday , 21 March , 2015 , 11 : 13 AM Martin Guptill did nothing special before the match , but during it everything he did was special Guptill also revealed how a late message from his mentor Martin Crowe had helped spike him Trent Boult , New Zealand 's bowling hero with figures of 4 for 44 , was pleased with his performance Martin Guptill posing with the Man of the Match award after his scintillating knock powered New Zealand to the semis. © AFP " The innings we witnessed is probably one of the best we have ever seen in this format. Sublime. Just sublime. I will never forget it. " That was Brendon McCullum following New Zealand 's win over West Indies at Westpac Stadium on Saturday , describing his opening partner 's unbeaten 237 - the second-highest score by a batsman in ODIs . Half an hour later , Guptill sat in front of the media looking somewhat dazed. " I 'm not sure what happened today to be honest. It has n't sunk in yet , " he said. " I was proud of what happened today. Hopefully , we can win another game and another one after that. So just pretty proud to have scored that many runs and get the win as well. From the start I just wanted to play each ball as it came. Once it got down to the last ten overs it was just to have a bit of fun and try to hit a few boundaries. There were a couple of good partnerships in the last ten overs got us up to nearly 400. To set the record and break it today is pretty amazing. " Understandably , there were reporters gathered who wanted to know whether Guptill had sensed that Saturday would be a special day , but they were left disappointed. " I had a bit of a sleep in this morning , and I had some breakfast , a light breakfast , and went down early and hit on the ball machine with the coach. Then I went out and did what I did. So nothing really too special and that 's what happened. " Nothing special before the match , but during it everything Guptill did was special. His mammoth innings will not be forgotten by anyone present at the stadium. It was that electric , that captivating , that smooth. True , West Indies do not have a potent bowling attack and were let down by the sloppy choices that their captain Jason Holder made , such as bowling left-arm spinner Sulieman Benn and Darren Sammy during the batting Powerplay with hit-me field settings , but to bat 50 overs for 237 , scoring 92 of your team 's last 153 in ten overs is something else. And it was a display of clean hitting. Hardly a slog , no ramps or paddles or scoops. No innovation. Purely bat on ball with a meaty blow from a lovely clean swing . " Just try and keep doing what I 've been doing and just take each ball as it comes really. That 's how batting is. Keep it simple , watch the ball and try to hit it , " he said. " I 've never had anything like that before and for it to be here in New Zealand is even better and to be in a quarter-finals is pretty special as well. " In 2013 , at Southampton against England during , Guptill had come close to an ODI double. Then , he finished not out on 189 off 155 balls out of a total of 359 for 3. Looking back at that previous best of his , Guptill 's response was that he 'd " mucked about a wee bit " during the middle overs . Leading into the World Cup , Guptill spent time at the nets with New Zealand great Martin Crowe , and today he revealed how a late message from his mentor had helped spike him. A text message from Crowe in Sydney on Friday carried a simple message. " He texted yesterday and said good luck. You know , try to hit the gaps and that sort of thing. It was nice to hear from him. I have n't had a text from him yet , but hopefully I 'll get one soon , " said Guptill . Guptill also revealed why he held up two fingers in the direction of the dressing room after a six in the final over cleared the stadium roof. It was to Craig McMillan , New Zealand 's batting coach , who during his career deposited a ball on the roof of Westpac Stadium too. This was the second time for Guptill . Sitting besides Guptill was Trent Boult , who was New Zealand 's bowling hero with figures of 4 for 44 from ten unbroken overs of raw , unrelenting pace. Boult nipped out the first four West Indies wickets to fall , setting the tone for another poor batting effort. That haul took Boult to the top of the wicket 's tally in the World Cup . " It was just one of those things that I had to get through the ten overs , " he said. " You 've got to want to do it firstly , and that 's what the team needed really. It was probably our best shot of trying to get [ Chris ] Gayle and disrupt their partnership. Yeah , managed to he get through it fine. It 's one of those things that 's needed for the team , and I 'm always happy to do it. It was a pretty good bowling performance from the unit , so , yeah , elated to get the job done. " © Cricbuzz Tags
