Lack of yorkers did us in : Holder Wellington , Sat , Mar 21 2015 Last updated on Thursday , 26 March , 2015 , 12 : 48 PM Jason Holder , however , was happy with his World Cup takeaways. © AFP West Indies captain Jason Holder believes his side 's inability to bowl yorkers hampered them greatly in the 143-run defeat by New Zealand in the fourth and last quarterfinal of the ICC World Cup . After losing the toss on a flat Wellington deck on Saturday , West Indies did well to reduce New Zealand to 89 for 2 in 16 overs but things just fell apart thereafter. Martin Guptill , who was dropped on 4 by Marlon Samuels , went on to make the second highest ODI individual score with a 163-ball 237 * , helping the Black Caps to 393 for 6 , in the chase of which the Caribbean team was bowled out for 250 in 30.3 overs thanks to Trent Boult 's 4 for 44 . In the post-match conference , Holder acknowledged the brilliant innings played by Guptill but also lamented the fact they could not bowl yorkers and that let New Zealand run away to a big score. " Yeah , it was obviously a good innings [ Talking about Guptill ] . They really took the game away from us , and it was good because they batted straight through. Obviously we put them down early and we had a few half chances which we probably could have taken. But that 's cricket. We need to respond really well when you 're bowling. We did n't rely on our yorkers and we paid for it today , " Holder said . When suggested that his team lacked the intensity from the first ball itself that saw him sluggishly run after a four and then two balls later Samuels dropped Guptill at square leg off the bowling of Jerome Taylor , Holder went into a defensive mode. " We did n't think we were flat when we started. It was obviously a quick outfield and we chased the ball to the boundary and we did n't catch it , but that 's cricket , you know. As I said before , we were n't consistent when we bowled with our lanes up front , " Holder said . " We were obviously too full , and we did n't come back with our yorkers. That 's it. I do n't think we need to overanalyze things at this present time. I think we just need to know they won two one-percenters as we say on our team and just get them right. " Chasing such a big total , the dangerous Chris Gayle , who returned for this game from a lower back injury , was always going to be crucial and he did well during his 33-ball 61 before falling to Adam Milne. When asked whether Gayle was fit enough to play the game , Holder replied , " Chris has been the same he has been in the last few days. He 's never been one of the most agile players around , and he 's quite slow and that 's Chris. Today just tweaked him a little bit. But that 's just an unfortunate state of the game for us , you know. We needed him to come out and be fairly aggressive. We were chasing 394 , so we just could n't play that. Credit to him for the way he played. " Holder held back on Gayle 's future in international cricket. " I ca n't speak on his future. At the end of the day that 's up to Chris , " he said . Holder was made ODI captain late last year ahead of a five-ODI series against South Africa which the Windies lost 4-1. The 23-year-old allrounder was of the opinion that the inconsistency they picked up from that tour never left them and affected them a great deal in the World Cup . 'We 've just been obviously inconsistent from the tour of South Africa to this World Cup. We 've had some good games and we 've had some bad games but we 've never been consistent going forward. So I think going forward , we 've got to be a lot more consistent than we have been at the moment , " Holder said . Holder was given the captaincy role in the wake of Dwayne Bravo 's controversial removal ahead of the South Africa series. While there were many moments when his captaincy looked a bit unconvincing in the World Cup , Holder was happy with his takeaways from the quadrennial tournament. " I think me personally I 've taken a lot. I 've been through a lot. There 's been a lot of criticism left right and center and all over the place. I 'm proud of myself the way I stood up. Not wanting to shy away from responsibility or get in my head when things get tough , " Holder said . " I expected a tough job when I accepted the captaincy , and no doubt it 's been a tough time , but we 've had some very good times. I 've learned a lot about how to manage our players and just trying to get the best out of our players. It 's been a challenge , yes. But one I truly enjoyed. " West Indies will now host England over a three-Test series starting next month under the supervision of new head coach Phil Simmons. Holder was looking forward to working with the former batsman. " Yeah , obviously , Phil Simmons is the new coach. We do n't have One-Day Cricket until the end of the year. I think our main focus at this present time is to get ready for the England series. We 'll obviously sit down and come up with a plan going forward. But , yeah , on the bright side we do n't have to worry about it. This is my first time working with Phil , so looking forward to that , " Holder said . © Cricbuzz Tags
