Maxwell wants fast SCG pitch for semi-finals Sydney , Sun , Mar 22 2015 Last updated on Sunday , 22 March , 2015 , 04 : 21 AM Glenn Maxwell wants the SCG pitch to be fast and have some grass . India have not defeated Australia in the summer . Glenn Maxwell wants a pitch that can assist Australia 's fast bowling trio of Mitchell Starc , Mitchell Johnson and Josh Hazlewood. © Getty Glenn Maxwell wants the Sydney Cricket Ground to be mean and green ahead of Australia 's semi-final clash against India in the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup on Thursday . Maxwell , who has scored 301 runs in the tournament so far with an average of 75.25 and a strike-rate of 183.53 , wants a pitch that can assist the fast bowling trio of Mitchell Starc , Mitchell Johnson and Josh Hazlewood . " Hopefully we get a fast one ( pitch ) . It has been a pretty good wicket this year and hopefully there is a bit of grass there as well , " Maxwell said . India are in wonderful form heading into the semi-final. They have bowled out the opposition in all seven matches played so far and they are on a 11-match winning streak in the World Cup. However , their record at the SCG is poor in ODIs , having won just one ODI out of 14. The only victory came in 2008 during the CB series final thanks to Sachin Tendulkar 's century . Maxwell believes Australia hold a slight advantage over India heading into the match. " They have n't won a game against us all summer , hopefully we can make the most of that. Hopefully that is pretty clear in their memories. We 've been dominant all summer in the ODI format. Hopefully we can continue that , " he said . India have been in Australia since November 2014 and failed to win a single match against them. They lost the Test series 0-2 while they lost one match in the tri-series in Melbourne with the other match at the SCG washed out. Heading into the ICC Cricket World Cup , Australia hammered India in the warm-up game in Adelaide by 106 runs . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
