Hesson : Clash against South Africa will be one " heck of a show " Auckland , Sun , Mar 22 2015 Last updated on Sunday , 22 March , 2015 , 06 : 33 AM New Zealand have qualified for the semi-finals for the seventh time in the World Cup . Coach Mike Hesson says the semi-final against South Africa will be one " heck of a show " . New Zealand are in the semi-finals of the World Cup for the seventh time. © Getty New Zealand have continued to grow from strength to strength in the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup. They were undefeated in the group stage and Martin Guptill 's brilliant , unbeaten 237 in the quarter-final against West Indies in Wellington helped them reach the semi-finals for the seventh time in World Cups. It is at this stage that New Zealand have stumbled and coach Mike Hesson is cautious heading into the crunch semi-final . With just two days to go for the big match , Hesson has said the team does not have much time to bask in glory as the turnaround period is very small. He also said the showdown against South Africa will be one " heck of a show " . " It 's a one-off game , we 're all desperate to be at the big party. I think we 'll both turn up , two sides that are playing good cricket and it 's going to be a heck of a show. I think the best four teams are in the semi-finals and I do n't think many people could disagree with that. South Africa have got a lot of match-winners so if one or two do n't play up , then you expect the other guys to turn up and put in a match-winning performance , " Hesson said . The team will be travelling to Auckland today and they will practice on Monday. South Africa will be heading into the match high on confidence following their thumping nine-wicket win over Sri Lanka in the quarter-final in Sydney , which was their first win in a World Cup knockout match . The team also has had mixed fortunes in New Zealand. At the start of the summer , South Africa defeated them 2-0 in a three-ODI series in October but lost by 134 runs in the warm-up game in Christchurch. In their previous encounter in Auckland , South Africa lost to Pakistan by 29 runs courtesy the D/L method. However , Hesson said a lot has changed since then . Speaking to ESPNcricinfo , he said , " We 'll take something from that , also that we were able to face their bowlers and were able to line them up which is always helpful. That was the start of a six-month campaign and it 's probably fair to say South Africa were better prepared than us. A lot has changed , it was on different pitches. They hit us hard early and we did n't respond very well , " he said . New Zealand 's winning percentage in ODIs this year is 76 percent and he said this team is not the side that he started coaching two years ago. " I think something pretty big has happened over the last year or so. We 've gone from nine in the world to four and you only get there because you 've got some pretty good players and , as I 've said before , we 're lucky that we 've got a lot of them , " he said . The plan for the semi-final is pretty simple for Hesson and his men. He stated , " As per normal , we 'll focus on our own job. We 're in a World Cup semifinal and we think we deserve to be there the way we 've played. It 's an opportunity to put in another good show and that 's what we 'll focus on. We 're playing some pretty good cricket but so are South Africa so we 'll just prepare as best we can and if we can make it to the big show , so to speak , we give ourselves the best chance. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
