South Africa , India can slip past co-hosts to set up MCG battle Sydney , Sun , Mar 22 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Sunday , 22 March , 2015 , 08 : 49 AM India and South Africa have already played once in the 2015 World Cup. © AFP You do not have to be a maths wizard to discover that four combinations of finalists are now possible in the ICC Cricket World Cup. And you would have to not mind risking your neck to pick the most probable of the four combinations two days before the semifinals between New Zealand and South Africa and between Australia and India . After five weeks of cricket , some intense and others not much , some competitive and others predictably boring , the four best and most balanced teams are left in the fray. Each of these sides is hungry and led by a remarkable captain , preparing in its own way to showcase its skills and passion in the semifinals so that it can take a crack at the title on March 29 . So what is your pick from the four possible combinations of finalists - New Zealand vs Australia or New Zealand vs India or South Africa vs Australia or South Africa vs India ? Surely , on current form , any of these match-ups can produce heady cricket at the spectacular Melbourne Cricket Ground. I fancy the South Africa-India final as the most probable combination . Here is why : New Zealand vs South Africa , Eden Park , Auckland , Tuesday , March 24 : New Zealand won all their seven games while South Africa lost to India and Pakistan in their group. However , they overcame a huge mental block when they beat Sri Lanka in the quarterfinal to register their first knockout win in World Cups . South Africa have all that the Black Caps have got - an explosive batsman in AB de Villiers as an answer for Brendon McCullum , as solid a batting line-up as the home side has got ; quick bowlers who can exploit the seam , swing and bounce like the co-hosts ' attack , a quality spinner in Imran Tahir to match Daniel Vettori . New Zealand hustled out Australia for 151 at Eden Park three weeks ago but found Mitchell Starc on fire. Only an off-day for Mitchell Johnson , a McCullum half-century and sensible batting by Kane Williamson helped New Zealand cross the line with one wicket in hand. After a cold start , South Africa 's bowlers have come into their own since the loss to India . De Villiers ' team appears ready to go the distance in the tournament. Both teams ' hunger to be in their first World Cup final can not be separate. But South Africa 's more balanced bowling attack will give them the slightest of edge over New Zealand , who have not found a wicket-taking or economical fifth-bowler option . Australia vs India , Sydney Cricket Ground , Sydney , Thursday , March 26 : India will have to turn up with their A game one more time , including collective batting successes , bowling achievements and inspirational captaincy to end Australia 's aspirations of launching a nation-wide party in anticipation of another World Cup conquest . There is no reason to believe that India will leave that game behind in the team hotel when they head to the Sydney Cricket Ground to take on one of the most consistent sides in world cricket. The slow nature of the SCG pitch , even if there is some grass left on it by the curator Tom Parker , can nullify some of Australian pacers ' abilities . The self-belief of the Indian batsmen , each of whom has had solid knocks against Australia in the past couple of years , is very high. The bowlers have hit a remarkable length and bowled in great channels to be able to force the opposition into mistakes so far. If they continue their good work on Thurdsay , they will ensure India play in Melbourne on March 29 . If India are presenting a well-settled look , Australia have had a couple of issues to deal with. Their openers have not fired as much as they would have liked and the nature of the pitch can extend their dry run , leaving Steve Smith and the middle order under pressure. Besides Johnson 's inexplicable drop in form , Australia will have to contend with the absence of a quality spinner in their ranks . © Cricbuzz
