Bowlers at the heart of India 's campaign Sun , Mar 22 2015 by Prateek Srivastava Last updated on Sunday , 22 March , 2015 , 01 : 29 PM Mohammed Shami is India 's highest wicket-taker in the World Cup. © Getty The idiom " From the sublime to the ridiculous " is quite the opposite in the case of the Indian team when one mulls the kind of cricket they have played in the last three months or so. Who would have thought after the disappointments of the Test series and the triangular series in Australia that they will be one of the semi-finalists in the ICC World Cup ? Whoever back then predicted that India will play the semi-finals was either mocked or branded a " pathetic optimist " by the critics of the team. But MS Dhoni 's team , which is set to play Australia in the second semi-final at the Sydney Cricket Ground on March 26 , has surprised its critics and fans alike , and if one has to pinpoint the most important reason behind the turnaround , it has to be their much-improved bowling , especially fast bowling . Whatever happens at the SCG , the tournament - from an Indian point of view - will be remembered for the fast bowlers ' brilliant use of short-pitched deliveries. Bouncers , when fast and accurate , are the most difficult deliveries to deal with as they involve high-risk executions , and whoever came with this plan in the Indian think tank deserves a big pat on the back . To understand this point one has to recall the Pakistan-Australia quarterfinal where the gulf between the quality of Wahab Riaz and other Pakistani bowlers was as big as the distance between Mercury and Neptune. Riaz had the Aussies under the pump with bouncers because of his extra pace. When Sohail Khan , Ehsan Adil and Rahat Ali tried emulating Riaz , they conceded runs due to a lack of real pace and the match slipped away from Pakistan. That important the pace factor is . Mohammed Shami and Umesh Yadav are genuinely quick and Mohit Sharma is not far behind and their pace combined with accuracy has done wonders. Come to think of it , if it were n't for injury to Ishant Sharma , who had to opt out due to a knee injury days before India 's opener against Pakistan , Mohit would n't have been playing in the World Cup. One is also left to imagine that how many matches Umesh Yadav would have got if Bhuvneshwar Kumar had been fully fit . The fact the India have managed to bowl out all their seven oppositions is a big testimony to how well all their bowlers have bowled. Out of 70 , the pace trio has accounted for 42 scalps with close to 25 coming off short-pitched deliveries . However , amidst this praise for the pacers , let 's not forget the offspin of R Ashwin that has made the Indian bowling more potent. In the past , Ashwin has been guilty of bowling a bit too quick and not imparting enough flight to his deliveries but in this tournament he has cast off both habits and the result is there for everyone to see : twelve wickets at an impressive economy rate of 4.29 . Allrounder Ravindra Jadeja too has chipped in with nine wickets using his left-arm spin to good effect. India 's chances in the semis heavily depend on how Ashwin and Jadeja fare on a pitch expected to assist the spinners greatly . And let 's also not forget the contribution of India 's fielding. A good fielding side can make its bowlers look that good and that 's exactly what has happened in this World Cup. There have been some excellent catches in the slips and deep positions as well as some breathtaking run-outs . However , despite all their successes so far , the bowlers will have to start afresh when they take on a strong Australian batting line-up which also has the psychological advantage , emanating from its dominance in the Test and the triangular series. Can the Indian bowlers push those defeats to the back of their minds ? That 's the question . March 26 is definitely a day of reckoning for them . © Cricbuzz Tags
