Auckland , Mon , Mar 23 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Monday , 23 March , 2015 , 10 : 07 AM Eden Park holds a special place in New Zealand cricket history . In the 1992 World Cup , New Zealand played four matches and won three. Their only loss came in the semi-final against Pakistan . In the 2015 World Cup , New Zealand defeated Australia by one wicket in Auckland . In New Zealand 's previous match in Eden Park , Auckland in the 2015 World Cup , they defeated Australia by one wicket in front of a packed house. © Getty Eden Park holds a special place in New Zealand cricket history. It was here in 1956 that the team achieved its first Test victory in 26 years , bowling West Indies out for 77 on the final day. It was here in 1982 that they beat Australia for just the second time in Test cricket. It was here in 1986 that Jeremy Coney 's team beat Allan Border 's side to take the series. It was here in 1993 that Martin Crowe 's team beat Australia to draw a three-Test series . It was here that England were beaten in 2002 , South Africa in 2004 and India in 2014. It was here a few weeks ago that Brendon McCullum 's team beat Australia by one wicket when chasing 152 in front of a packed house chanting " You 're worse than England " to the opposition. However , Eden Park will always be tagged with the 1992 World Cup for four matches from New Zealand 's memorable campaign - three for wins and one for heartbreak . On February 22 , New Zealand and Australia opened the World Cup at Eden Park , and it was the hosts who began with a blast and used that as motivation to sail all the way to the semi-finals. And it was their captain , Crowe , who led the way with his bat and his mind. From 13 for 2 , Crowe added 118 in 25 overs with Ken Rutherford. Despite a dodgy knee , Crowd reached three figures with one ball to spare ; as revealed later in his autobiography , Crowe on Crowe , he felt the game change when he reached the forties : " The Australians started to bowl shorter. That was the innings that changed the game. " On a pitch that would get slower and lower , Crowe 's second masterstroke was to toss the new ball to Dipak Patel , and offspinner , and to then juggle his attack so frequently that Australia never settled. Patel conceded just 19 from his first seven overs and the asking rate crept up ; needing 50 from the last five overs , Australia lost their last five wickets for 12 runs in 17 balls , New Zealand won by 37 runs and Crowe was a national hero . After defeating South Africa by seven wickets thanks to fifties by Mark Greatbatch and Rod Latham , New Zealand next met West Indies on March 8 , in game 21 of the tournament , and it was the scene of Greatbatch 's most sparkling innings. The burly opener launched a ferocious assault on the West Indian bowlers , deprived of their bouncers , as he mangled the quicks with devastating off-side hitting. Greatbatch hit Curtly Ambrose , Malcolm Marshall and Anderson Cummins for sixes at will. In an opening stand of 67 in 12 overs , Rod Latham scored only 14. Remembering that innings , Greatbatch recollected , " Ambrose bowled quick that day. But he gave me a little bit of width , and I whacked him over point for a six. Then I struck Marshall over extra-cover for another six. That really set the tempo. " West Indies lost their third game in a row . Then , the big day. New Zealand versus Pakistan in the semi-final of March 21 , 1992. And it was at Eden Park that the innings of the tournament was played by a cherubic , almost lackadaisical yet devastatingly effective Inzamam-ul-Haq. Pakistan 's chances of making the final looked dim when they needed 123 from 15 overs at 8.2 an over but Inzamam single-handedly changed the complexion of the match. Goaded on by the wily veteran Javed Miandad , Inzamam went berserk and slammed 60 from just 37 balls , most often shuffling across to off stump and heaving full-length deliveries over the leg side with calm audacity. Patel , who had allowed just 28 runs from his first eight overs , haemorrhaged 22 from his last two. It was sheer carnage , and when Inzamam was run out the target was 36 from five overs , which was passed with ease thanks to Wasim Akram , Moin Khan and Miandad. New Zealand hearts were smashed . On Tuesday at Eden Park , McCullum 's New Zealand team - unbeaten in the World Cup - will face South Africa in the first semi-final in what looks a tantalising match. Will this great ground prove lucky for New Zealand , 23 years on from 1992 ? A packed house will be waiting for the answer . © Cricbuzz Tags
