'Relaxed ' McCullum stares destiny in the eyes Auckland , Mon , Mar 23 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Monday , 23 March , 2015 , 05 : 43 AM McCullum believes that there is little that separates South Africa and New Zealand The NZ skipper wants his team to go out and enjoy the occasion in front of the big crowds McCullum is brimming with optimism ahead of the big semi-final © AFP In 1992 , the World Cup semi-final between New Zealand and Pakistan at Eden Park was watched on television in the McCullum household in Dunedin. Sitting with his father Stu , who played 75 games for Otago as an opener , young Brendon McCullum experienced a range of emotions. The lasting one was of disappointment that his team had lost at the doorstep of a World Cup final. It is a feeling that abides with McCullum , who on Tuesday will lead an unbeaten New Zealand against South Africa in the 2015 World Cup semi-final at Eden Park . Nerves are but natural for this New Zealand team , who have won seven in a row to reach this far , backed by a nation and its cricket pundits who believe that 2015 could be their year. But McCullum is cut from a different cloth and was relaxed on the eve of the biggest cricket match he has captained in . " I think I should be okay , " he said with a smile. " I sort of find that being too stressed out does n't help that much , so might as well just relax and look forward to the opportunity to go out there and represent your country again tomorrow in obviously a really big game. It 's a great stage to be a part of. It 's what you play the game for , all the trainings that you do all the time away from home , all the hard work and sacrifice that you make. This is what you do it for , so we 've got that opportunity tomorrow , and yeah , I 'm looking forward to it. " For a team that has not lost a match in the tournament , New Zealand are led by a man who has remained honest in his assessments at every juncture. He has given credit where it 's due and commended his team 's achievements and spirit without getting ahead of himself. Unlike AB de Villiers after defeat , McCullum has not said that he believes his team is the best at the World Cup. He has been grounded yet brimming with optimism . " I would expect us to go out there and focus purely on displaying our skills , trying to be as good as what we can with ball , bat and in the field , and leaving nothing out there in terms of our heart and our soul and trying to be as desperate as we can. That was not how we want to play the game , " he said. " I think other teams will do that sort of thing , but for us we 're not good enough to have that as our focus. We need to make sure that we 're respectful of the game and go about our work. The way we 've been playing is obviously a pretty exciting brand of cricket , as well. Just because it 's a pressure game you should n't change that. It 's the greatest chance for success ; we know that. For us to compete against big teams on a regular basis and for us to win World Cups in crunch games , we need to remain true to that. I believe that 's our most authentic style of cricket , it 's one that serves us well , and I would n't expect that that would change tomorrow. " When he greets his team-mates on match day , McCullum will not break from rank. He will speak to them in the same tone he has since the tournament began. He will tell them that he believes in each of them. He will tell them to have fun . " It will be no different to every other game , I think. We talk a lot about this being the greatest time of our lives and the trip that we 've been on so far has been one that we 'll all remember. The game is meant to be fun , go out there , express yourself , enjoy the occasion , put our best foot forward , and we 'll see where the cards fall after that , " said McCullum . He is aware that neither team has won a World Cup semi-final. But there is no scope for freezing under pressure , he believes. " I 'd expect that the team that is able to handle the crunch situations the best will come out on top , but I would expect that the margin wo n't be too far between both teams , " he said. " Should be a great contest and one that certainly everyone is looking forward to , and I guess we 'll have one team that has never made it to the final at the end of tomorrow celebrating , and the others will take it in their stride. I think both teams are playing a different brand of cricket than we 've probably seen both teams play over the last sort of while. Both teams are playing aggressively , playing an entertaining style of cricket , and both teams are trying to win key moments rather than not lose them. So I think tomorrow will be a great spectacle. " Not long before McCullum addressed the media inside Eden Park , de Villiers spoke about having to contend with a full house , most of which will be backing New Zealand. McCullum knows the feeling well , having led his team to a one-wicket win over Australia at Eden Park with 37,000 spectators chanting their every move and booing the opposition . " Can you factor it into your planning ? Probably not. But when you 're going good , it 's great to have the crowd on your side like that , and I think we 've seen throughout this tournament how behind our cricket team the public is , and we 've had some superb crowds all the way through the tournament , " he said. " We 've seen people turn up and no one will forget the chant of Southee going up around the Cake Tin or even Guptill last time , as well , and the way that the crowd got right in behind Boulty when he was swinging for Australia , as well. They 're memories which will live forever. Yeah , it 's obviously great to be playing tomorrow 's game at home , and hopefully if we can get ourselves in a strong position , then the crowd will enjoy the ride with us , as well. " Watching his opening partner Martin Guptill bat 50 overs against West Indies for the second-highest individual total in the history of ODIs was a sublime experience , said McCullum , but more importantly affirmation that within the group were individuals capable of spiking the mood even more. " He 's been a huge player for us in this tournament. It suggests that he 's probably not quite done yet , " he said. " We always try and hope that one of us will be able to go out there and peel off a score of such significance that we saw from Gup the other day. To actually see it unfold and to see it in such a crunch game , as well , and for him to still display the same game plan which he trains so hard for was just confirmation that obviously it can be done. I think that will flow on in terms of confidence to the rest of the squad. " In 1992 , when Martin Crowe was unable to take the field during Pakistan 's chase at Eden Park , John Wright was the man to lead New Zealand. In that passage , the game slipped from their hands. To this day , it is viewed as a tactical blunder. Against South Africa at Eden Park , New Zealand can be safe with the knowledge that McCullum is in control of his wits and knows what calls to take. The only tricky aspect is that for once , New Zealand are not underdogs. And that is not a position they can be too comfortable with. How McCullum keeps a check on his own emotions when facing Dale Steyn and Morne Morkel , or when rotating his bowlers and setting his fields , or if he finds himself needing to knuckle down after early wickets , could end up the defining chapter of Tuesday 's semi-final . Is he ready ? Heck , yes. Is New Zealand ready ? You better believe it. Will there be a repeat of 1992 ? Now that 's not so straightforward . © Cricbuzz Tags
