AB de Villiers beyond gut feeling when it comes to South Africa Auckland , Mon , Mar 23 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Monday , 23 March , 2015 , 06 : 11 AM AB de Villiers exuded confidence and believed South Africa are unstoppable if they play to potential © Getty AB de Villiers was there in St Lucia in 2007 , when South Africa lost to Australia in the World Cup semi-final by seven wickets. He was there in Dhaka in 2011 , when South Africa lost to New Zealand in the World Cup quarter-final by 49 runs. He was also part of the team that lost to West Indies and England in the semi-finals of the 2006 and 2013 editions of the ICC Champions Trophy. In Twenty20 internationals , he was a member of South African teams that exited at the semi-final stage of the 2009 and 2014 World Twenty20s. He knows what bitter defeat tastes like , and knows of South Africa 's litany of failures in major knock-out matches . But he also knows what it feels like to lead South Africa to their first victory in ICC knock-out matches , having skippered them a nine-wicket win over Sri Lanka in last week 's quarter-final at the SCG. He knows what that win has done to his team. He knows they can do it again. He believes it , truly he does . " I trust my gut feel with that. I get a feeling of what the energy is like , " he said at Eden Park on Monday. " It 's pretty easy to pick up when you 've spent a lot of time with the guys , spent a few years with them , so I know each player individually pretty well. I know what makes them tick , and I know what irritates them , as well. Sometimes it 's important to irritate them , to get the best out of them , as well. It 's a matter of reading the situation , trusting my gut , and I do n't think I 'll have to trust my gut too much tomorrow because I know the guys will be up for it. " South Africa 's success on the road to Auckland has left de Villiers without any doubt that come match day he will need to gee up his team-mates. " I wo n't have to do that. I know the guys are up for tomorrow , " he said. " Same with the quarter-finals. I 'll have a little look about what they 're feeling when get we get to the ground. At warm-ups you normally get a good indication of where the guys are at , and then the right words will be said in that little huddle. I know all 15 - well , all 30 of us who are here will be up for tomorrow. " South Africa 's 2015 World Cup campaign has not been smooth. They were 83 for 4 in their tournament opener against Zimbabwe when he exited , but were lifted by a record stand between centurions David Miller and JP Duminy. India beat them by 103 runs , overwhelming them in the field and with the ball. South Africa absolutely smashed West Indies , with de Villiers ' 66-ball 162 not out lifting them to 408 before Imran Tahir 's five wickets sealed victory by 257 runs. Against Ireland , they made 411 for 4 and won by 201 runs. Right here in Auckland , de Villiers waged a long battle against Pakistan and ended up " very disappointed " when South Africa lost by 29 runs. The UAE were comfortably beaten by 146 runs , and then in Sydney it was Tahir 's four that spun a web around Sri Lanka for South Africa 's first World Cup knockout win ever . And de Villiers is aware of the challenge that an unbeaten New Zealand pose , led by the aggressive Brendon McCullum and backed by a superb fielding unit and two excellent new-ball bowlers and the crafty Daniel Vettori. McCullum 's New Zealand are unbeaten in this World Cup , but de Villiers chose not to dwell on what they 've done. His focus was on South Africa , himself and ticking the W column on Tuesday . " It 's silly to focus too much on the cricket they 've played because they 've played really well. But not only that , I personally do n't like to focus too much on the opposition , " he said. " I 've mentioned that in a few pressers before , that I believe that if we play to our full potential that nobody is going to stop us in this tournament. It 's more important for me to get the guys in a good space to make sure they 're confident mentally , they 're fresh physically , because I know at the end of the day , if we rock up and play a good game of cricket that we 'll come out on top . " There has been a lot of emphasis on our past and South Africa not doing well at World Cups. We do n't mind that too much. I 've gone through the whole package of feeling emotional about it , fighting against it , then accepting it , then fighting again , " he said. " Honestly I 'm not putting emphasis on that at this World Cup at all. I 'm the guy who 's got to answer those questions , and I do n't mind doing that , but I know the squad is in a really good space , and once against I 'm going to say that sentence of knowing that if we play a good game of cricket we 'll come out on top. We 're that confident in our abilities as a cricket team , " he said . When he last sat and faced the media at Eden Park , it was soon after South Africa 's shoddy loss to Pakistan. Then , de Villiers looked defeated. " I hate losing , I really do , " he had said , his eyes flushed but his cheeks reddening as he controlled burning emotions. " I have nothing good to say about the team at the moment. I 'm very disappointed. " On the eve of the semi-final , de Villiers could smile and talk up South Africa 's chances. " It 's something of the past , and we 've found ourselves in the semifinals of the World Cup and played a really good game in the quarters. There 's a lot of confidence behind us. I feel the team is in a really good space at a really good time. We 've got a lot of reason to be confident for tomorrow 's game , " he said . When these two teams last met in a World Cup knockout , Vettori 's New Zealand made 221. Defending that , the Kiwis pulled South Africa back from 108 for 2 in 24 overs to 172 all out in 43.2. Following another knock-out defeat , Graeme Smith , in his last ODI as captain , was left in disbelief. A hurt , broken leader. De Villiers was there to witness and feel another soul-sapping loss. He felt Smith 's pain. He saw defeat in his friend and team-mate 's eyes. Four years on , he is in Smith 's shoes and confident of history not repeating itself . " I remember we lost. It was n't a great game for us as a cricket team. But at the end of the day I could walk off the field that day knowing that I gave it my best shot. There 's no regrets about that game , " he said. " I felt in good form. I batted well. Personally I do n't have any grudges about what happened in the past. We 've got good confidence coming here tomorrow. We 've played some really good cricket in New Zealand. In the last five ODIs we 've come out on top , and that 's what we focus on now. Not too much emphasis what happened here in the Pakistan game , what happened in 2011 , 2007. The most important day for us is tomorrow , and we 're very confident going into tomorrow. " Tomorrow , in de Villiers ' words , is 'a very important game'. Right up there with the most important he has played. Right up there with some " difficult " Test matches. Right up there with St Lucia , Dhaka , London , Nottingam and Jaipur. He and a nation will hope that tomorrow is different from those days , that de Villiers rises and that South Africa surge. De Villiers insists there is no need to motivate the team , that every time he puts on the South African jersey he carries the same intensity , no matter what the match or format . On Tuesday , South Africa will once again face reality. Whether it leaves them broken or brilliant remains to be seen . © Cricbuzz Tags
