Sledging could be a part of the semifinal spectacle : Faulkner Sydney , Mon , Mar 23 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Monday , 23 March , 2015 , 07 : 14 AM Faulkner said he was not surprised that India have done well in the World Cup. © Getty Australian allrounder James Faulkner has said fans would see two very good teams coming up against each other in the ICC Cricket World Cup semifinal at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Thursday. " It should be a very good spectacle , " he said. " I think it is going to be a great occasion. They are a good opposition and we are looking forward to Thursday. " There was no hint of the mind games when Faulkner met the media on Monday. Instead , he was candid in admitting that everyone was going to be nervous in their own little way. " It is up to them how they want to deal with it. I think you can say a lot of nerves were on show a couple of nights ago and I think that is good. If you do n't have nerves , you have got issues , " he said . However , Faulkner said sledging could be expected. " I think , there always is [ sledging ] in the game and if there is n't you 've got problems. It is the nature of the game , it is the semifinal. It is going to be cut throat. There are going to be words said. It is going to be a really tough contest and I suppose both teams wo n't be backing down , " he said . Faulkner said he was not surprised that India have done well in the World Cup. " Every time we have come up against them , it has been a very good game. If you go back to the series in India , a lot of runs were scored and there were a lot of great chases. Likewise , when we played them here , we have scored 300 and been there and thereabouts while chasing it , " he said " We have come up against them a hell lot in the last 12 to 18 months and I think now you have seen they have spent a fair bit of time in the country and adapted well to the conditions. There is no surprise ; that they are up against us in the semifinal. They are a very strong team and I think we are as well. It is going to be a great contest , " he said . The Australians are ready to play an 'away ' game in case the crowd has more Indian supporters on Thursday. " We were talking about it at dinner last night [ Sunday ] . Actually that the last game we played here definitely felt like that , " Faulkner said. " Obviously the passion with the Indian fans showed towards their team is sensational. We are definitely expecting that come match day. The last time we played India here , it was a washout. The fans were unbelievable supporting India and I suppose everyone is excepting that. " Faulkner expects a high-scoring game. " The pitch was very good in our match against Sri Lanka. We made 360 I think and they made over 300. It was a great one-day cricket. I am expecting a lot of runs scored. If you look at when we have played them in the ODI series , you have seen a lot of runs. I think that is what will happen come game day , " he said . He labelled Indian spinners R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja as world class. " Our line-up does n't have that. We go in with a different team and we are playing in Australia. We will play our best XI. If you saw the pitch against Sri Lanka , it did n't spin and it was quite easy to get hold of. I am not sure what make-up they will go in with and not sure about the make up of our side. It depends on the pitch and what is produced on game-day , " he said . He said his team 's spearhead Mitchell Starc has started to become " another player " . " I know the boys do n't like facing him in the nets because of how fast he bowls and is a major threat when is swinging the ball at 140 or 150 kmph back in to the batsman. That is what he has done so far and hopefully he can do that for the semis and then hopefully in the final. " Speaking of Starc 's ability to bowl quick yorkers , Faulkner said it was a fantastic skill. " I know he spends a lot of time in the nets working on his yorker over and around the wicket. So far he has n't really missed in this tournament so it is a great bonus for us to have him firing at the moment and expecting big things come the semifinal with him , " he said . On his own back-of-the-hand slower ball , Faulkner said he used it a fair bit against Sri Lanka because they got off to a flier in the chase. " To try and change things , I used more back of the hand deliveries and off-cutters and tried to take the pace off the ball because they were doing quite well against our new ball bowlers , " he said . " It is something I have had and worked at it when I was really young playing in the backyard , bowled a bit of leg-spin etc. That is where it sort of came from and I am bowling it now. It is nice to have it but hopefully I can work on a couple of other slower deliveries , " Faulkner added . © Cricbuzz
