Key battles : Clash of the unpredictables in semi-final Mon , Mar 23 2015 by CB Staff Last updated on Monday , 23 March , 2015 , 08 : 16 AM The New Zealand v South Africa semi-final will feature an epic clash between Brendon McCullum and AB de Villiers . Both teams will be aiming to reach the final for the first time . New Zealand defeated South Africa in a warm-up game in Christchurch just before the start of the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup. © Getty It is the clash between two unpredictable sides in the first semi-final of the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup. New Zealand have won seven matches in a row while South Africa won their first knockout game in World Cup history by thrashing Sri Lanka at the SCG. Contests between these two sides have always been even and on the big stage , one of these teams is on the cusp of history. Here is a look at the key battles which could influence the outcome of the match in Auckland . 1 Brendon McCullum vs AB de Villiers It is the battle between two freaks. One has brute power while the other is exceptionally innovative. Both are proactive and can change the course of the match quickly. As far as contests go , this is definitely one of the mouth-watering battles of the World Cup . Brendon McCullum has been belligerent at the top of the order for New Zealand. He has 269 runs in seven games at a strike rate of 185.51 and his aggression is the X-factor. However , in the last couple of games , he has not been able to sustain his aggressive streak and has departed early in the match. South Africa will be aware that if McCullum gets going at a quick pace , they will be staring down the barrel . The same applies to New Zealand when it comes to dealing with AB de Villiers. The South Africa skipper holds the record for the fastest fifty , fastest century and fastest 150 in ODIs and is the best batsman in the world currently. New Zealand will be aware of the destruction he can cause. With 417 runs at an average of 83 and a strike rate of 144 , de Villiers is THE key wicket for New Zealand. Also , the hosts will have to guard against his bowling. In six matches , he has taken four wickets and his tendency to break partnerships is something that they will have to watch out for . There is extra motivation heading into the match for both teams. Both teams have suffered crushing losses in the semi-finals in previous editions of the World Cup and both will be desperate to change their fortunes. The outcome of this match heavily depends on de Villiers and McCullum . 2 Trent Boult vs Hashim Amla Heading into a big game , the pressure on both South Africa and New Zealand will be immense. However , there is one person who will be unaffected by this situation . There is a calmness around Hashim Amla when he comes to bat. He is the quickest batsman to get to 5,000 runs in ODIs and his huge appetite for runs gives South Africa the advantage at the top. Amla 's ability to bat right through the innings will help South Africa on the big day . Amla , though , must be aware of the threat posed by Trent Boult. New Zealand 's ace left-arm fast bowler is the leading wicket-taker in this tournament , with 19 wickets at an average of 14.63 and an economy rate of 4.21. His variations in length and his ability to generate late swing make him a potent threat. Boult featured in the two ODIs against South Africa in October 2014 and failed to get rid of Amla. However , on the big stage , Boult will be determined to take out South Africa 's most consistent batsman early . 3 Morne Morkel and Dale Steyn vs Kane Williamson Date : 27 March 2012. Venue : Basin Reserve. Morne Morkel was ripping through the New Zealand top order while Dale Steyn was ferociously working up the batsmen. However , both could not dislodge Kane Williamson and he brought up a magnificent century to save the Test match. During the course of his knock , Williamson was hit on the body by Steyn and the bowler refused to apologize. The unbeaten century in Wellington signalled the coming of age of Williamson . Three years later , Williamson is now the best batsman in the New Zealand team and his consistency has been remarkable. He will be aware of the threat Morkel and Steyn possess and he will be ready for yet another showdown. South Africa 's deadly duo will not shy away from roughing him up. This contest between New Zealand 's best batsman and South Africa 's best bowlers will be pivotal in this match . © Cricbuzz Tags
