SCG staff addressing dual-pace trait Sydney , Mon , Mar 23 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Monday , 23 March , 2015 , 08 : 40 AM ICC pitch consultant Andy Atkinson flew to SCG to have a word with Tom Parker , the curator . The curators at the SCG are trying to ensure the track is not two-paced for the semi-final . Tom Parker and his team are trying to ensure the SCG is not two-paced ahead of the semi-final clash between Australia and India. ( Credits - G Rajaraman ) © Cricbuzz The presence of International Cricket Council 's pitch consultant Andy Atkinson , his discussion with the ground staff and a quick word with Sydney Cricket Ground curator Tom Parker on Monday morning caused a flutter , especially among those who are prone to believe he was flown in to oversee the preparation of a grassless , flat deck for Thursday 's semi-final . One of the finest curators around , Parker 's worries would not stem from such illogical thoughts ahead of the big clash between Australia , who are hoping for pace and bounce , and India. He would have been more concerned at addressing the two-paced nature of the pitch as seen in the quarter-final between South Africa and Sri Lanka . Australia 's James Faulkner and Glenn Maxwell have hoped that the SCG pitch would have some grass on it. Faulkner had spoken in Adelaide after the team 's escape from Wahab Riaz 's spell on Friday and Maxwell at the Sydney airport on Saturday. That could have been misconstrued as the home team fearing India 's spin twins , R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja . It will help not to read too much into the fact that Imran Tahir and JP Duminy picked up seven wickets as Sri Lanka crashed to 133 in 37.2 overs. There was dual pace but fairly good bounce and it was the Sri Lankan batsmen 's poor shot selection that led them to their downfall after the early loss of the openers to the new ball bowlers , Kyle Abbott and Dale Steyn . There have been three 300-plus scores in World Cup matches at the SCG , South Africa topping the charts with 408 for five against the West Indies the first time a team had crossed the 400-run mark in ODIs in Australia. Sri Lanka made 312 in a gallant chase of Australia 's 376 for nine one day after the home captain Michael Clarke had called the pitch the driest he had seen . With no access to the pitch , one had to rely on zoomed in images of the pitch from around 100 metres away. You could spot a very mild hint of green but not the sort that would cause alarm bells to ring. It was the grass that had grown over the past four days. With much rolling through the day , and interestingly some cross-rolling as well , it finished looking more white than green . The one media person who could walk across to the pitch , Sky Sports commentator and former England captain Nasser Hussain would not say anything about the track. Sources in the Indian team management said the pitch was a bit moist perhaps the result of sweating under covers when there was rain over SCG on Sunday night . Truth to tell , with three days left for the semifinal , the moot question really should not be whether there would be great assistance for the Australian pace bowlers. Instead , it should really be whether Parker and his team will have done enough to ensure that the track would shed the dual pace characteristic from the quarter-final that saw South Africa head home . Parker and his colleagues would be more eager than Atkinson to produce a good strip on which the teams can play out a memorable contest before what is likely to be a sell-out crowd. They would not want their 'baby ' to overly challenge the strokeplayers of both teams in what is the SCG 's last international game of the season . © Cricbuzz Tags
