Allrounders ' presence has n't really been felt Mon , Mar 23 2015 by Prateek Srivastava Last updated on Monday , 23 March , 2015 , 10 : 42 AM The allrounders ' contributions have n't been commensurate with their billing. © Getty There have been some great batting and bowling performances in the ICC World Cup. The pitches in Australia and New Zealand have supported both bowlers and batsmen but despite that there have n't been many all-round performances of note. So the question comes to mind is : what has happened to the allrounders ? Prior to the tournament , Corey Anderson , Angelo Mathews , James Faulkner , Shakib Al Hasan , Thisara Perera and Andre Russell were tipped to make an impact but their contributions have n't been commensurate with their billing. Of course , Faulkner could be excused as he did n't feature in the first few matches for Australia on account of a side strain. The only allrounder who has had a good World Cup is Zimbabwe 's Sean Williams who scored four fifties in six matches and chipped in with seven wickets . Instead , batsmen who bowl as part-timers have had some eye-catching performances. The first name is South Africa captain AB de Villiers who has been fairly useful with the ball taking four wickets at the expense of 65 runs in 11 overs. He has also scored 417 runs at an average of 83.40 but batting is his forte , so there was no surprise on that front . De Villiers ' team-mate JP Duminy is another to have made a significant contribution. A hat-trick against Sri Lanka in the quarterfinal and a century in the team 's opener against Zimbabwe have been the highlights for him . The same goes for Australian Glenn Maxwell who at last managed to break the nervous-nineties jinx and scored his maiden ODI ton against Sri Lanka. Besides that and a couple of fifties , he also has taken five wickets . The past World Cups have seen some memorable allround performances from Kapil Dev , Imran Khan , Lance Klusener , Sanath Jayasuriya , Andrew Flintoff , Chris Cairns , Brian McMillan and many others but his edition has been an absolute downer . Allrounders bring a lot to the game. In pizza parlance , the batsmen and bowlers are like bread and cheese making up the base but allrounders are like seasoning and garnish. Without them the pizza does n't taste the same. That way the World Cup , despite having fairly been successful , has n't been a complete one . One could come up with several reasons but the new ODI rules favouring batsmen could be pinpointed as the main reason behind their lacklustre show. Fifteen overs of powerplays and then just four fielders outside the 30-yard circle in the last 10 overs have liquefied allrounders a great deal . " If you see , after the rule change happened , Yuvi [ Yuvraj Singh ] did n't bowl a lot. We must admit that once the rule change [ field restriction ] happened , it did affect his bowling. In the pre-field restriction days , Viru paaji [ Virender Sehwag ] , Sachin Paaji [ Sachin Tendulkar ] and Yuvi used to bowl a lot and we depended on them. But they were all part-timers and on good batting tracks , they would find it difficult to bowl well , " India captain MS Dhoni recently replied to a media query on Yuvraj Singh , who was Man of the Tournament in the 2011 World Cup but no longer part of the team . Dhoni hit the nail on the head there . Once the World Cup is over , the International Cricket Council needs to review the field restrictions rules. If the specialist bowlers have n't been that affected , allrounders have certainly borne the brunt and this World Cup has provided convincing proof in that regard. Cricket ca n't afford to lose its allrounders . © Cricbuzz
