Chris Cairns Pleads Not Guilty to Perjury Charge Chris Cairns Pleads Not Guilty to Perjury Charge Former New Zealand captain Chris Cairns faces allegations of perjury in a match-fixing libel action in light of being awarded $ 136,000 in damages after he sued IPL founder Lalit Modi , over an accusation of match-fixing made on Twitter in January 2010 . Last updated on Saturday , 17 January , 2015 08 : 46 IST Total Shares File photo of Chris Cairns . London : Former New Zealand captain Chris Cairns on Friday pleaded not guilty to a charge of perjury and to perverting the course of justice in a match-fixing libel action . Cairns faces the allegations in light of being awarded $ 136,000 in damages after he sued Lalit Modi , founder of the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) tournament , over an accusation of match-fixing made on Twitter in January 2010 . The 44-year-old appeared before the Old Bailey in London to enter a not guilty plea to a charge of perjury and to perverting the course of justice by inducing fellow former New Zealand player Lou Vincent to provide a false witness statement during a Skype internet call . Alongside him in the dock was barrister Andrew Fitch-Holland , who denied one count of perverting the course of justice . The pair stood side by side and spoke only to confirm their names and enter not guilty pleas to the charges as they were read out before the senior judge , Mr Justice Sweeney . The judge adjourned the case for a pre-trial hearing on a date to be fixed in July ahead of a four-week trial fixed to take place at Southwark Crown Court on October 5 . Cairns and Fitch-Holland were granted continued unconditional bail . In 2007 and 2008 , Cairns captained the Chandigarh Lions in three competitions in the Indian Cricket League ( ICL ) , which flourished briefly before the ascendancy of the IPL . The allegation made by Modi related to the second and third of these competitions , between March and April 2008 and October and November that year . Story first published on : Saturday , 17 January 2015 07 : 42 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
