India 's focus and intensity remain sharp ahead of semifinal Sydney , Mon , Mar 23 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Monday , 23 March , 2015 , 11 : 22 AM After a cursory look at the match strip , India 's players got down to the nets with enthusiasm and purpose on slow pitches Fans of the Indian team were left deeply disappointed on Monday as they could not watch their favourite players train Virat Kohli had an extended session at the SCG nets on Monday ahead of India 's semifinal against Australia. ( Pic : G Rajaraman ) © Cricbuzz The Indian players locked their focus on intense , sharp training - away from the glare of their fans - at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Monday ahead of the massive semi-final showdown with Australia on Thursday . After a cursory look at the match strip , still being rolled and prepared , they got down to the nets with enthusiasm and purpose on slow pitches. Interestingly , one of the four nets was reserved for the likes of Suresh Raina and Shikhar Dhawan to bat against wet tennis balls , served by coach Duncan Fletcher or skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni . Then again , Monday 's session was much more than merely practice against the tennis ball for a couple of batsmen. It was about the likes of Rohit Sharma and Virat Kohli getting extended sessions of throwdowns against pace bowlers and against spinners. It was about the team 's brains trust keeping an eagle eye on the squad . Monday was about Umesh Yadav and Mohit Sharma bowling full tilt ; spinners R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja turning in long spells against a variety of batsmen ; and Bhuvneshwar Kumar getting extra attention from bowling coach B Arun , just in case he had to stand in for the team 's leading wicket-taker , Mohammed Shami , who was wrapped in cotton wool all day . Meanwhile , fans of the Indian team were left deeply disappointed on Monday that they could not watch their favourite players train. And for some reason , as they stood beyond the Alan Davidson Gate to catch a glimpse of the players , they carried the impression that the team itself had been responsible for the gates remaining closed . Sources in the team management denied suggestions that the fans , easily the largest contingent that turns up at training sessions of the teams , had been kept out at their behest. " The ICC Cricket World Cup security personnel had advised that it would be better if the team trained behind closed doors , " a source said. " We respect the passion of the fans. " It transpires that during the Test match here in January and before the Carlton Mid tri-series game that was washed out , some enthusiastic fans lined up behind the barricades and constantly chattered away , some going to the extent of offering tutorials to the players based on comments of experts on television . " There is no doubt that the Indian team draws the most fans to practice sessions. It sometimes gets tough for us to retain a distance between the players and the fans at the nets in thee SCG. You will have noticed that we have not asked for such a session at any of the other grounds , " a security personnel said . © Cricbuzz
