Match analysis : Poor fielding results in loss for South Africa Here are some of the tweets which sum up South Africa 's poor showing . What an incredible semi final. Bitter pill to swallow and even tougher to see the tears on the field ! Well done to NZ ! @ scottbstyris — Albie Morkel ( @ albiemorkel ) March 24 , 2015 reminder : grant elliot was a surprise selection into this new zealand world cup squad # NZvSA — Gaurav Kalra ( @ gauravkalra75 ) March 24 , 2015 No , South Africa , you blew it. And you blew it with your biggest strength , your fielding . — Harsha Bhogle ( @ bhogleharsha ) March 24 , 2015 South Africa should have run out Anderson on 33 , run out Elliott on 65 and caught Elliott on 75. Truth is , the pressure told on them — Simon Wilde ( @ swildecricket ) March 24 , 2015 Match analysis : Elliott proves to be a master-stroke Grant Elliott has lived up to his nickname of 'Magic'. His selection prior to the World Cup was met with some disbelief but he has repaid the faith back immensely. In the series against Sri Lanka , he was in fine form and on the big stage , he held his nerve and made an unbeaten 84 to help New Zealand reach their maiden World Cup final . This is not the first time Elliott has delivered under pressure. In the 2009 Champions Trophy , Elliott played a similar knock against Pakistan in the semi-finals and it helped New Zealand reach the final . This was the final match of the New Zealand summer. Auckland has produced three absolute humdingers in the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup. The thrilling Trans-Tasman clash , Pakistan 's greatest victory in World Cups against South Africa and now the semi-final. It has been a brilliant host and from all cricketing fans , we say a loud 'Thank You ' to New Zealand for being such excellent hosts . Match analysis : Elliott , McCullum The first semi-final of the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup and the 3644th ODI has proven to be the clash for the ages. AB de Villiers and Faf du Plessis were looking ominous during the South African innings before the rain intervened. After a 90-minute rain delay , the match was reduced to 43 overs and David Miller 's exploits helped them reach 281/5 . Chasing a revised D/L target of 298 , Brendon McCullum and Martin Guptill got off to a blazing start. McCullum , in particular , was devastating and he got going by smashing 18 runs off Vernon Philander and 25 runs off Dale Steyn. McCullum 's fifty came off 22 balls but he perished n the quest for aggression. New Zealand maintained a brisk scoring rate but they lost wickets quickly . In stepped Corey Anderson and Grant Elliott. Both of them benefited from some fielding lapses from the South African fielders. Both batsmen survived some close run-out chances and they gradually gave New Zealand hope. Both batsmen went past their fifties and the 103-run stand made the match evenly poised. Anderson departed for 58 but Elliott held his nerve and helped New Zealand win the match by four wickets with one ball to spare . Sydney 1992. Edgbaston 1999. Durban 2003. Dhaka 2011 and now Auckland 2015. Every World Cup has proven to be painful for South Africa and this result continues the sorry saga. However , they have done the world proud with their performances. This is the fourth consecutive loss for South Africa against New Zealand in World Cups . For New Zealand , the ghosts of all the previous World Cup semi-final exits have been exorcised. In 1992 , there was heartbreak in Auckland. 23 years later , Auckland has given them immense joy. In a stroke , 1999 , 2007 and 2011 have all faded away into oblivion . Corey Anderson and Grant Elliott 's fifties have given New Zealand hope in the semi-final © Getty Update : Elliott brilliance helps New Zealand to their maiden World Cup final What a moment ! What a match ! What an occasion ! 10 runs needed off 4 balls but Grant Elliott and Daniel Vettori held their nerve to clinch one of the greatest victories for New Zealand in the World Cup . Vettori backs away and carves a full toss to third man for a boundary and he steals a bye to take the equation to five runs in two balls. Elliott , like the iceman , remains calm and smashes a six in the fifth ball to help New Zealand reach the final of the World Cup for the first time . As soon as the winning runs were hit , New Zealand 's players celebrated in joy and the Auckland capacity crowd celebrated. For South Africa , Morne Morkel , Faf du Plessis and AB de Villiers broke down. It was indeed heartbreaking for South Africa , who have been knocked out in the most exceptional circumstances for the fourth time . In a twist of fate , a South Africa born batsman knocked South Africa out of the World Cup . Update : More drama in the final over Dale Steyn has pulled up after bowling two balls. The physio is out there and it seems he is suffering from cramps in his calf. More delay as the match extends even further. 10 needed off 4 balls , 9 to tie Update : All down to the last over Grant Elliott is playing a gem of a innings here. And there is plenty of drama in Morne Morkel 's last over. Elliott top edges a pull shot to long leg and JP Duminy and the substitute Farhaan Behardien drops the catch. New Zealand need 12 runs in the final over , with 11 to tie . Update : South Africa close in , New Zealand have a faint chance 23 needed off 12 balls. Morne Morkel will bowl the penultimate over while Dale Steyn will bowl the final over. Elliott is still there . Update : Quinton de Kock misses the run-out Grant Elliott nudged Dale Steyn to deep backward square leg and set off for a risky couple. Rillee Rossouw swoops in and fires a good throw at the keeper but Quinton de Kock does not collect it and he breaks the stumps prematurely. The match continues to see-saw . Wicket : Ronchi falls , NZ on the back foot Steyn gets the big wicket and it is now advantage South Africa. Ronchi flicks it straight to deep square leg and South Africa in front . Luke Ronchi c Rillee Rossouw b Dale Steyn 8 ( 7 ) Update : Match is turning into a cliffhanger Tahir has conceded seven runs in his ninth over and he finishes with figures of 9-1-40-0. He has now bowled out. Dale Steyn and Morne Morkel will now bowl out . Wicket : Anderson falls , game evenly poised It is the big moment of the match. Morne Morkel had conceded just one run in five balls and the pressure was immense. Anderson looks to pull a short ball but ends up getting a top edge and Faf du Plessis takes the high catch and roars in delight. The third umpire checks whether the ball touched the ropes of the spider camera but it is alright . Corey Anderson c Faf du Plessis b Morne Morkel 58 ( 57 ) Milestones : Anderson , Elliott fifties give NZ hope Grant Elliott scored his eighth ODI fifty while Corey Anderson scored his fourth ODI fifty as their partnership gave New Zealand some hope. The batting Powerplay has also been good for New Zealand. They scored 35 for the loss of no wickets. Game on in Auckland. The partnership has also gone past 100 . Brendon McCullum blazed away to a magnificent fifty © Agencies Update : Corey Anderson survives a run-out Massive moment in the game ! AB de Villiers shows he is human. Elliott taps Steyn to point and Anderson sets off for a quick single. He is sent back with Anderson half-way down the pitch and he is slow in turning back. The point fielder fires the throw at the bowler 's end and de Villiers does not collect the ball cleanly. In the process , he knocks the stumps over and he tries to uproot the stump but is unable to do so. Anderson had given up but he survives. Huge moment in the match. The batting Powerplay has also been taken I cant win the World Cup on my own. - AB de Villiers , March 8th 2015. # CWC15 # NZvSA # NZ # SA — Freddie Wilde ( @ fwildecricket ) March 24 , 2015 Update : Fifty partnership between Elliott and Anderson Grant Elliott and Corey Anderson are keeping New Zealand 's hopes alive as the match is evenly poised. The partnership has gone past 50 and New Zealand have reached 200. It is a close match . Update : Match evenly poised The fifth bowling option is proving to be costly for South Africa. JP Duminy concedes 13 runs in his fifth over and New Zealand need 102 runs in 14 overs. It is very much gettable . Wicket : Taylor 's struggles ends Ross Taylor has been struggling in this 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup and he finally departs. Duminy floats a flatter delivery down the leg side and Taylor looks to tickle it to fine leg but gets an edge that is well taken by the keeper . Ross Taylor c Quinton de Kock b JP Duminy 30 ( 39 ) Update : Bowling issues for South Africa South Africa are facing some issues in their bowling right now. Dale Steyn has walked off due to a hamstring injury while they are struggling with the fifth bowler 's composition. This is the time New Zealand must capitalize . Wicket : Run-out dents NZ further A horrible mix-up and Guptill , who had scores of 105 and 237 * in his previous two matches , falls. This is a big wicket. Taylor taps the delivery to point and hesitates as he takes the quick single. Even Guptill hesitates and Amla swoops in and fires the throw to Quinton de Kock who whips the bails off quickly to catch Guptill well short. The game is evenly poised in Auckland . Martin Guptill run-out ( Hashim Amla/Quinton de Kock ) 34 ( 38 ) In fact , in the last two matches , both these batsmen have been involved in run-outs. Guptill ran out Taylor in the quarter-final and in the semi-final , Taylor has run-out Guptill . In 60 % of the times Martin Guptill has been run out , Ross Taylor has been at the other end . — Michael Wagener ( @ Mykuhl ) March 24 , 2015 Update : Taylor-Guptill keep New Zealand afloat Following the quick dismissals of Brendon McCullum and Kane Williamson , Martin Guptill and Ross Taylor have slowly rebuilt the innings and are keeping in touch with the required run-rate. The partnership has now gone past fifty and New Zealand will need these two to carry on . Wicket : Morne strikes again Morne Morkel is proving to be a handful for New Zealand. He keeps the delivery short and Williamson is lured into the pull but he ends up dragging it back onto the stumps . Kane Williamson b Morne Morkel 6 ( 11 ) Update : Guptill , Williamson the key for NZ With McCullum 's dismissal , Martin Guptill is now the key for New Zealand. He is now the only New Zealand player to go past 500 runs in one edition of the World Cup . 500 - Martin Guptill is the first @ BLACKCAPS player to score 500 runs in a single World Cup tournament. Landmark. # CWC15 — OptaJim ( @ OptaJim ) March 24 , 2015 Wicket : McCullum falls and South Africa come back in the game All of Auckland groans in disappointment as Brendon McCullum , who was looking so ominous. The New Zealand skipper comes down the track and Morne bangs a short ball which cramps him for room. McCullum goes for the slog but ends up mistiming it to mid-on where Dale Steyn takes the catch . Brendon McCullum c Dale Steyn b Morne Morkel 59 ( 26 ) Standing ovation for McCullum after that innings : https : //t.co/DUHNEwkWAC # NZvSA — Cricket World Cup ( @ cricketworldcup ) March 24 , 2015 Update : Guptill survives a review Martin Guptill looks to go after Imran Tahir as he goes for the sweep but misses it and gets hit on the pad. Tahir appeals vehemently appeals and South Africa take the review. Replays show that the ball was missing the stumps and they lose the review. However , Tahir provides some relief as he bowls a maiden over . Milestone : Brendon McCullum blasts South Africa away Chasing a big total needs a great start and Brendon McCullum has provided it in his own style. He blasts Dale Steyn for 25 runs , including three fours and two sixes. He notches up his 31st ODI fifty off just 22 balls and has gone past 3000 ODI runs in New Zealand. McCullum is in that zone and AB de Villiers is a worried man . Faf du Plessis scored his 15th ODI fifty as South Africa made steady progress. © Getty Update : Philander finds the going tough It is not a happy first over for Vernon Philander on his comeback as he leaks 18 runs in his first over. He concedes four byes in his first ball and disappears over long leg for a maximum. He smashes another four and in the final ball , he short-arm pulls it to long leg. The nervous energy from both teams has been highlighted in this tweet BUNDLE OF NERVES BOTH THE TEAMS...loving it # SAvsNZ # CWC15 # lovingit — DK ( @ DineshKarthik ) March 24 , 2015 Update : New Zealand start off in style Brendon McCullum started off in style by smashing a six off Dale Steyn 's third ball. New Zealand have already scored eight runs in the first over. Some journalists have pointed out McCullum 's destruction in past encounters in Eden Park . Last time McCullum played in a final at Eden Park he scored 170 off 108 to help Otago chase down 310 in 40 overs . — Michael Wagener ( @ Mykuhl ) March 24 , 2015 Innings summary : South Africa end on 281 , New Zealand need 298 to qualify It has been a breathtaking passage of play in the first semi-final. New Zealand started off brightly by taking the wickets of Quinton de Kock and Hashim Amla cheaply. Faf du Plessis and Rillee Rossouw steadied the ship by notching up a 83-run stand for the third wicket. When Rossouw perished for 39 thanks to a wonderful catch by Martin Guptill , AB de Villiers came in and blazed away in his trademark style. He notched up his fifty off just 32 balls and the signs looked ominous . Following a 90-minute rain delay , the match was reduced to 43 overs and Faf departed for 82. However , David Miller blasted 49 runs off just 18 balls to help South Africa end on a high. South Africa managed to score 65 runs in the final five overs and New Zealand 's target is 298 , according to the D/L method. This tweet spells out clearly what New Zealand and South Africa have to do . New Zealand need 298 in 43 overs to win match and 297 to qualify for Final. If match is tied , NZ will play final at MCG. # cwc15 # NZvSA — Mazher Arshad ( @ cricket_U ) March 24 , 2015 Wicket : Breezy Miller departs David Miller was hammering New Zealand and he was clearing the Eden Park boundary with ease. However , in the quest for quick runs , Miller slogs at a wide delivery and edges it to the wicketkeeper. Amazing knock from Miller comes to an end . David Miller c Luke Ronchi b Corey Anderson 49 ( 18 ) Update : Killer Miller on the rampage David Miller is on the rampage here and he is really killing New Zealand here in Auckland. Tim Southee concedes 17 runs in his eighth over while Corey Anderson concedes 20 runs in another over. Miller is on course to scoring a fifty that puts South Africa in the driver 's seat . Wicket : Corey strikes after the rain break The rain break has done wonders for New Zealand and they have struck in the first over. Corey Anderson bangs a short ball down the leg side and Faf du Plessis looks to pull but misses it and umpire Ian Gould signals a wide. However , Brendon McCullum opts for the review and replays show the ball brushed the glove. Faf gone for 82. Big chance for New Zealand. The 103-run partnership is broken . Faf du Plessis c Luke Ronchi b Corey Anderson 82 ( 107 ) Update : 43-overs a side match It is confirmed. The match has been reduced to 43 overs. New Zealand 's target will be adjusted according to the D/L method. Play will start in 15 minutes . The batting Powerplay for @ BLACKCAPS will be four overs # NZvSA # CWC15 — Jamie Alter ( @ jamie_alter ) March 24 , 2015 Update from Eden Park , Auckland. Game to restart at 18h45. 43 overs per side. 3 bowlers can bowl 9 overs , 2 can bowl 8. # CWC15 — Alan Wilkins ( @ alanwilkins22 ) March 24 , 2015 18-45 local time to start. 43 overs . — Simon Doull ( @ Sdoull ) March 24 , 2015 Update : Rain stops in Auckland After one hour and 20 minutes , the rain has stopped and the covers might come off soon. No news about how many overs will be reduced. The latest images show that there is still some slight drizzle and there is a fair amount of water on the covers. The ground staff are removing the covers and the super soppers are doing the rounds in Eden Park. Might take about 15-20 minutes for the ground to be ready. No news yet about the resumption but the cut-off time is 10 PM local , which is 2 : 30 PM IST . Stopped rain ... groundstaff were not rushing into action. Bruce Oxenwood as 4th umpire had a very animated discussion to get them going ! — Mike Haysman ( @ MikeHaysman ) March 24 , 2015 Update : Rain continues to fall in Auckland The rain is getting heavier in Auckland and the covers are firmly in place. It had eased off slightly about 10-15 minutes ago. We are now at that stage where the overs will start getting reduced . Just to confirm - all the usual D/L systems in place to finish game tonight. If not , it will resume from position it was stopped at 2 : 00pm . — Neil Manthorp ( @ NeilManthorp ) March 24 , 2015 Update : Clarification on the rules Here is a tweet that explains the rules in case of a rain-interrupted match Just to confirm - all the usual D/L systems in place to finish game tonight. If not , it will resume from position it was stopped at 2 : 00pm . — Neil Manthorp ( @ NeilManthorp ) March 24 , 2015 Important to stress , even if rest of day is rained off , play will resume from 216/3. D/L sheet will be needed only tomorrow. # CWC15 # NZVSA — G Rajaraman ( @ G_Rajaraman ) March 24 , 2015 Update : Rain still continues to fall in Auckland It i still raining in Auckland but it has eased off slightly. Some people have pointed out that AB de Villiers is superman. This tweet states the fact that AB can do anything . Bad luck NZ. De Villiers can do this as well. # NZvSA pic.twitter.com/ddLZP2Rv38 — ABCD Villiers ( @ abcdvilliers ) March 24 , 2015 Update : Rain stops play in Auckland What is with South Africa in the knock-outs and rain ? Once again , rain has arrived at a time when AB de Villiers and Faf du Plessis were looking ominous. For New Zealand , this rain is like a god-send and they will be looking to regroup and get their plans sorted out. Unless they do not break this stand quickly , New Zealand are looking at a total in excess of 350. The rain is getting slightly heavier in Auckland but it might not be a long delay . Meanwhile , the comparisons of the 1992 World Cup semi-final and the 2015 World Cup semi-final has only gotten deeper. Check this tweet out . AB de Villiers today scored 50 off 32 balls , joint-second fastest 50 in WC Semi Finals. Fastest is by Inzamam ( 31b ) also vs NZ & at Auckland — Mazher Arshad ( @ cricket_U ) March 24 , 2015 Well..Rain..DuckworthLewis..World Cup..South Africa. Hope the result is not as predictable. # NZvSA # CWC15 — Dillip Mohanty ( @ dkmohanty ) March 24 , 2015 Best thing for NZ... Duckworth lewis ... Rather than @ ABdeVilliers17 # CWC2015 — Michael Vaughan ( @ MichaelVaughan ) March 24 , 2015 Update : De Villiers rides his luck AB de Villiers continued to bat aggressively and he tried to go after Tim Southee. He looks to pull a short ball to deep midwicket but gets a top edge that lands safely in between three converging fielders. It is going to be his day , one feels. One tweet summed up how he bats De Villiers bisecting slips , trisecting fielders , intersecting mid-off and mid-on and geometrically protracting nz 's torture — Sidvee ( @ sidvee ) March 24 , 2015 Milestone : De Villiers notches up his fifty In the blink of an eye , AB de Villiers has notched up his 46th ODI fifty off 32 balls. With the short boundaries in Auckland and South Africa in the last 15 overs , South Africa are looking at a score now in excess of 350 . Update : Kane Williamson potentially drops the cup It is the BIG moment in the World Cup semi-final. In the second ball of the batting Powerplay , AB de Villiers slams a short ball from Corey Anderson hard to cover and Kane Williamson drops a tough catch at cover. Given the moment , given the hour , it is a massive drop , potentially threatening for New Zealand 's chances. To add insult to injury , de Villiers blasts a six and two fours off Anderson in the next three balls . Update : AB de Villiers survives a run-out Suicidal run attempted in Auckland. Faf du Plessis taps it hard to point and sets off for a risky single. Kane Williamson has a shy at the striker 's end but misses. It could have been a close call but such is de Villiers ' speed that he makes it. In fact , he has injured himself while diving but there are no major worries. In the last five overs , South Africa have scored 55 runs and with the batting Powerplay coming up , South Africa are looking at a total in excess of 330 . Update : Du Plessis , de Villiers turning it on Faf du Plessis and AB de Villiers are playing with great control and are setting up the base for an onslaught in the final 10 overs. It needs to be stated that South Africa 's strongest area in the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup has been in the final 10 overs. To compound matters even further , Corey Anderson has leaked 13 runs in his second over. Things looking ominous for New Zealand . Milestone : Du Plessis fifty steadies South Africa With wickets tumbling at the other end , Faf du Plessis made good progress and scored his 15th ODI fifty. On the big stage , this is a vital knock for South Africa and they will be hoping that he can carry on and make a good score . Wicket : Corey Anderson shows he has the golden arm Corey Anderson has had a knack of breaking partnerships in this World Cup and he responds yet again in his first over. Anderson bowls a short of a good length delivery outside off and Rossouw punches it on the up to point , but Martin Guptill flies to his right and takes a superb one-handed catch. Guptill can do no wrong. The 83-run stand is broken and New Zealand will be pumped up. However , they will be up against the freak , AB de Villiers . Rillee Rossouw c Martin Guptill b Corey Anderson 39 ( 53 ) Can see the nerves in AB 's eyes.and as I say that boult is warming up to bowl. It 's gon na be mccullum 's aggression vs AB 's aggression
