Tears of joy , tears of pain Auckland , Tue , Mar 24 2015 Last updated on Tuesday , 24 March , 2015 , 12 : 10 PM © Getty South Africa and New Zealand played a World Cup semi-final for the ages. The game turned one way , then another. Inspired batting , bowling , rain delays , missed chances -The game had it all. In the end , Grant Elliott ( 84 off 73 ) , held his nerve to propel New Zealand to their first World Cup final . The game was tipped as a straight battle between the skippers Brendon McCullum and AB de Villiers and the two did n't disappoint.Brendon McCullum 's World Cup of aggressive captaincy was on display straight after losing the toss and being asked to bowl. For South Africa 's top-order batsmen , he stationed four slips . McCullum does n't wait for an ICC decision. He has already started test cricket with coloured clothes. # NZvSA pic.twitter.com/0Le78Q6OlW — Keh Ke Peheno ( @ coolfunnytshirt ) March 24 , 2015 After electing to bat in a crucial knock-out game , South Africa lost Hashim Amla early. Quinton de Kock let the big-game pressure get to him and followed his opening partner back to the hut . De Kock 's rash shot shows the value of Test cricket. In his case the value of T20. You have to guts it out against the new ball — Gary Lemke ( @ GaryLemke ) March 24 , 2015 Faf du Plessis dropped anchor after the early loss of wickets and composed a patient half-century before Rilee Rossouw was dismissed by a top catch from Martin Guptill . Faf du Plessis innings has been ugly , but superb , hes soaked up pressure wonderfully. # CWC15 # NZvSA # NZ # SA — Freddie Wilde ( @ fwildecricket ) March 24 , 2015 AB de Villiers walked in and straight away changed the tempo of the innings. The South African skipper , arguably the best batsman of the generation , completed a 32-ball fifty before persistent rain reduced the game to a 43-over affair . Enter the world 's best batsman. If he stays in , SA win. If he gets out , NZ win. @ ABdeVilliers17 # NZvSA — Piers Morgan ( @ piersmorgan ) March 24 , 2015 Rain brings NZ back strongly into the match... . — ABCD Villiers ( @ abcdvilliers ) March 24 , 2015 David Miller took over following the rain-break and smashed his way to an 18-ball 49 as South Africa posted 281 in their 43 overs. IPL team Royal Challengers Bangalore knew a thing or two about Miller 's pyrotechnics having been at the receiving end of a blistering innings a couple of years back . . @ DavidMillerSA12 tries to reach out for a wide ball but faintly edges the ball to the keeper. Misses out his 50 by just a run ! # NZvSA — Royal Challengers ( @ RCBTweets ) March 24 , 2015 Chasing a D/L/S revised target of 298 in 43 overs , Brendon McCullum came out all-guns blazing. The New Zealand skipper signalled his intentions early by smoking Dale Steyn for a six over cover in the first over. That was to serve as a precursor as he took apart the leading South African pacer for 25 in an over before falling to Morne Morkel for a 26-ball 59 . This is not any ordinary bowler McCullum is tearing apart , this is Dale Steyn , the finest bowler of this generation. # CWC15 # NZvSA # NZ # SA — Freddie Wilde ( @ fwildecricket ) March 24 , 2015 Kane Williamson was dismissed soon after McCullum before Martin Guptill and Ross Taylor attempted to rebuild the innings. The duo added 47-runs before a mix-up ended Guptill 's innings sparking discussions about AB de Villiers ' run-out in the 2011 World Cup when the two sides played each other in the quarters . Four years ago , it was New Zealand doing the running out. This time , it 's South Africa. Feels like Melbourne beckoning for them. # cwc15 — Firdose Moonda ( @ FirdoseM ) March 24 , 2015 Anyone who tells you they 're working is a blatant liar . — Pat Symcox ( @ PatSymcox77 ) March 24 , 2015 Corey Anderson and Grant Eliott batted solidly following Taylor 's dismissal to get New Zealand closer to the target. De Villiers operated with the spin of Tahir and Duminy as the equation reduced to 115 off 90. The moment of the game however came in the batting powerplay when de Villiers missed failed to run Corey Anderson out in a crucial phase of the game . Was this the Herschelle Gibbs moment of the World Cup from @ ABdeVilliers17 ? pic.twitter.com/WenjVHgvtX — Cricket Talkback ( @ CricketTalkback ) March 24 , 2015 I agree once in a while , you need to show you are human. But , this was n't the time ABD ! # Fluff # CWC15 # NZvSA — Sonali Dhulap ( @ pillya ) March 24 , 2015 Corey Anderson went to score a 57-ball 58 before Morne Morkel swung the game back in South Africa 's favour giving away just one run and dismissing Anderson . Saffers are back in this thanks to Morkel Faf and Tahir . — Peter Lalor ( @ plalor ) March 24 , 2015 This game is better than all of the quarter finals and most of the group games combined — Peter Miller ( @ TheCricketGeek ) March 24 , 2015 Even as Luke Ronchi came and went , Grant Elliott continued to find the timely boundaries to reduce the equation to 23 off 12. Eliott survived another chance off the final ball of the penultimate over when he top-edged a pull that Farhaan Behardien and JP Duminy conspired together to drop . They are spilling catches , missing run outs and holding on to 'chokers ' tag. # SAvsNZ # CWC15
