Dhoni makes Vaughan stop short of favouring Australia Sydney , Tue , Mar 24 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Tuesday , 24 March , 2015 , 11 : 24 AM Michael Vaughan said the slow nature of SCG track would probably benefit India Former Australian paceman Brett Lee showed his patriotic side in backing the home team Michael Vaughan said it was a 5-50 call when asked to pick his favourite in the second semi-final at SCG. © Getty India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's skills as leader , combining the intuitive and the planned , makes pundits think twice and stop short of naming Australia as the overwhelming favourite to win the ICC Cricket World Cup semifinal at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Thursday . Former England skipper Michael Vaughan has joined those ranks. " MS Dhoni knows how to win World Cups and that goes quite a long way. There is something about him and World Cups and what he did after the tri-series is remarkable. Change of team and change of mentality. The change in the way they played in the World Cup after the tri-series , " he said on Tuesday . " I really do think it 's a 50-50 call. In all semifinals , the team that plays well in the first 15 overs of the match , be it with the ball or bat is the team that gets ahead and wins that game. They have all got power , all got finesse , they have got different kind angles to create in the field , " he said . Vaughan said the slow nature of SCG track would probably benefit India. " It is like if they could have chosen a venue to play the World Cup semifinal against Australia in Australia , they would have chosen SCG. It will offer some spin , " he said. " Ashwin is getting the ball to shape through the air , which is very important to his style of bowling. " " It will come down to certain players winning their opening battles , from David Warner and Aaron Finch to Shikhar Dhawan and Rohit Sharma winning the opening battle against Mitchell Starc , who has been the best bowler in the tournament in my opinion. If India play Starc well , they would be on their way to winning the game , " he said . Former Australian paceman Brett Lee showed his patriotic side in backing the home team. " I will obviously always back Australia being an Australian a past player but yes India have got a great side and have great momentum going. I think India do have a very good chance to win the game. It is going to be a tough game and I am looking forward to Thursday , " he said . " It is going to be a lot of fun. Full crowds and packed stadium. I honestly think Australia will win on Thursday night. But you also got to think about the chance of India. They have played extremely well , won seven from seven. Australia have won five from seven , that 's including one wash out. We have to wait and see , " Lee said . Vaughan said Australia would be making a mistake if they targeted Indian batsman Virat Kohli. " I think if you single out one , you would be then struggling with the other 10. India have got wonderful talent right down from 1 to 11 , " Vaughan said . Lee acknowledged Kohli as a world class player who had proven that over the last few years. " He has got the right technique , a wonderful opportunity now for to go and stamp his authority on the game. He is a big game player. He will be looking forward to the semifinal. I know that he also loves to play against Australia , " he said . " I know how much the Australians love playing against India. There is going to be some fireworks out there and some big sixes. And it is the same with India. They are not the type of team now that will lay down and get beaten. They are a very strong side and obviously want to win , so it is going to be a great game , " Lee said . © Cricbuzz
