AB de Villiers , South Africa 's broken arrow Auckland , Tue , Mar 24 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Tuesday , 24 March , 2015 , 03 : 14 PM In the post match press conference , AB de Villiers forced back tears , looked up at the ceiling and then the words crept out , painfully A question was posed to de Villiers on whether that was the worst he had felt on a cricket field. One word came out. " Yes. " AB de Villiers was a dejected skipper when he addressed a room full of journalists. ( Pic credit Jamie Alter ) © Cricbuzz You had to be inhuman not to feel bad for AB de Villiers when he sat down in front of a room full of journalists after South Africa 's defeat to New Zealand at Eden Park on Tuesday. He looked broken , defeated. His eyes were red. His face drained of colour. It was going to be a tough next few minutes , of that there was no doubt . When de Villiers spoke , the words did not come easy. Before he replied to the first question , he paused. No , it was more than a pause. He forced back tears. He looked up at the ceiling. Then the words crept out , painfully . " It 's a tough one , you know ? I felt that we left it out on the field tonight , and that 's all I can ask of the guys , you know ? " he said. " We had our chances especially in the second half of the game and we did n't take it. So , yeah , it 's difficult to say what kind of emotions I 'm feeling. It 's obviously painful . " Lots of people back home supporting us. It hurts to think of all of them , you know , and we so badly wanted to take that trophy back home , but I guess life moves on. The sun will come up again tomorrow like our coach said numerous times in this tournament. And we had a lot of fun throughout this tournament , and I 'm proud of the guys the way we fought in every single game right till the death and once again tonight. And give credit to New Zealand. They played a wonderful game of cricket and held their nerve to the end , so well done to them. " Tonight will hurt. A lot. De Villiers , captain of a South African side that won its first World Cup knockout match last week and threatened to shed the baggage of the past at Eden Park , lost. He has been a part of previous South African sides , he has been defeated earlier. But this ... this was pain of a different kind . " We play this game to win games of cricket , to glory home and make a difference in the nations , and we did n't do that. We did n't achieve that , and it hurts quite a bit. Gutted. We had our chances and we did n't take them , " he said . A question was posed to de Villiers on whether that was the worst he had felt on a cricket field. One word came out. " Yes. " In that second , you felt he had snapped. He blinked , gulped , looked away momentarily . There is no shame in this defeat. South Africa did not choke. They were not smashed. They lost with one delivery left in the game. In such situations you can not go deep and look for reasons. They were beaten , and just , by the better side. By the smallest of margins. Yes , run outs were missed. A catch went down that should have been taken. Wides were bowled. Length balls were doled out. Harsh critics will point to that and say 'look , they stuffed up again'. But this can not be added to South Africa 's litany of infamous chokes. They just did not take their chances , as de Villiers admitted . What thoughts racked his frantic , pulsating mind when he spoke to Dale Steyn , his lion-hearted spearhead , before the final over when New Zealand were 11 runs away from a win. " We were discussing every single ball , yorker , slow ball , hard length. We were trying everything and it left us walking across the wicket trying to use the pace , " he revealed. " Normally when a player does that , he 's trying for you to go for a yorker. He wants you to go for a yorker so he can use the pace down to the boundary. We decided to go length , hoping that he 'll [ Elliott ] play and miss it , and he played one of the best shots of his life. Probably the best. " De Villiers does not know what is next. Literally. " I have absolutely no idea what to do from here on in , " he said. " I do n't even know when we 're going home. It 's going to take some time. As a captain , I 'll be there for the guys as much as I can , and there is nothing you can do about it now. " In that fleeting moment , one got the feeling that something had snapped in this champion athlete. This freak of athletic ability , this man who is changing the dynamics of batting. The sharpest , deadliest arrow in South Africa 's quiver . In his bare assessment of where he sat , about what he felt , about what he will feel tomorrow. About the future. De Villiers is 31. He will be 35 when the next World Cup is held. Does he have it in him to captain South Africa ? Can he will himself to play more ODIs ? What does he have to achieve ? He said he has no regrets in this tournament. " Not one. " When he had done answering questions , de Villiers got up and changed seats with South Africa 's coach , Russell Domingo. As Domingo spoke of how the " definitely the boys were broken , no doubt about it " , de Villiers sat back in his chair , his eyes shut. He was alone in that room , it seemed for a moment. Then he leaned forward , rested his elbows on his knees and dropped his head. It was not for more than half a minute , but it was impossible to take your eyes off him. His silence spoke so , so many words. It was eerie. It was painful. It was sad . De Villiers ran a hand through his soaked , matted hair. He looked up. Stared out with a blank expression. An official silently passed de Villiers a bottle of chilled water. He took it , acknowledged the man with a half-smile. Before he took his first sip , de Villiers mumbled something , cocking his head slightly. No one could have heard it. It was while Domingo was answering a question on his future as South African coach. We may never know what it was , whether it was significant . Then de Villiers drank from that bottle , but his eyes remained blank. Ever so blank . © Cricbuzz Tags
