Virat Kohli reveals secret of India 's turnaround Tue , Mar 24 2015 Last updated on Tuesday , 24 March , 2015 , 02 : 46 PM Kohli said the team had realised before the World Cup that the time to make error-corrections was urgent Kohli also praised the bowlers ' response to that with a bagful of wickets in the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup Kohli praised his the bowlers for their stupendous performance. © Getty India vice-captain Virat Kohli has revealed that the team went to work after the Test series and the tri-series , writing down things that needed improvement and has praised the bowlers ' response to that with a bagful of wickets in the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup . Talking to Cricket Australia , Kohli said the team had realised before the World Cup that the time to make error-corrections was urgent. " We felt as a group that we need to step up and make corrections now. We do n't really have too much time because you ca n't afford to go into the World Cup thinking 'Okay , fine , we have things to work on but we can do it over a period of time ' , " he said , about the team 's '180 degree turnaround' . " We went to work immediately , wrote things down on what we need to improve on are. The way the bowlers have reacted and performed with composure , confidence and aggression has been wonderful to watch. You expect bowlers to step up if you want to beat quality sides in the world and the way they have done this in the World Cup is commendable , " Kohli said . The Indian vice-captain , who has been a thorn in the flesh of the Australian side , not only earlier in the summer when he scored four centuries in the Test series , said there could not be a better time for the team than to secure their first win over Australia on this tour than in the World Cup semi-final here on Thursday . " It is an opportunity for us to do justice to the way we played so far in Australia. We have n't had the results but we have played the right kind of cricket. The difference now is how our bowling attack has come into play in the World Cup , taking 70 wickets in seven games. If we continue to do that , we have a great chance , come game day , " he added . © Cricbuzz
