Tue , Mar 24 2015 by Prateek Srivastava Last updated on Tuesday , 24 March , 2015 , 05 : 45 PM Steyn failed to defend 12 runs in the last over. © AFP Painful things find a way of repeating themselves. Ask Allan Donald. The man whose unfortunate run-out dismissal resulted in South Africa 's World Cup exit in 1999. He would have experienced similar feelings in Auckland on Tuesday , this time as a bowling coach of the South African team that lost a fantastic battle against New Zealand in the World Cup semi-final . As Grant Elliott 's six that sealed New Zealand 's maiden final was still in orbit , Steyn went despairingly down on his knees. It is highly unlikely anyone else would have empathised with the fast bowler as much as Donald from his seat in the dug-out . In the 1999 semi-final , South Africa needed nine runs off the last over to beat Australia. When Lance Klusener fetched two fours off the first two deliveries by Damien Fleming , it looked like Hansie Cronje 's men were ready to make their maiden appearance in a World Cup final. But then the heart-breaking run-out , result of a misunderstanding between Klusener and Donald , followed and the match ended in a tie. Australia advanced to the final on the basis of their higher finish in the Super Sixes . On Tuesday , South Africa were defending 12 runs off the last over. Steyn was the man chosen for the job but failed. The haunting memories of the Edgbaston encounter nearly 16 years ago spilled over to Eden Park . It was not just Steyn who was shattered. South Africa captain AB de Villiers , Faf du Plessis and Morne Morkel were down on the ground in tears. Donald would have felt the most for Steyn. There are reasons. He also bowled fast and was the backbone of the Proteas bowling and enjoyed the same respect as Steyn has in his career . World Cup trophies are rare achievements. Not every great player has felt the pride and joy that come along with the trophy. Seeing Steyn grimacing , it could have crossed Donald 's mind that Steyn may have let his best chance to win a World Cup go. Just like he must have felt after his own run-out back in 1999 . Donald also had to go through the ignominy of a first-round exit in the home World Cup in 2003. However by then , he was n't the same bowler and featured in only three matches. Injuries had taken a toll on him. Having seen the 31-year-old Steyn struggle on account of injuries in the last few months , Donald must have been pained to think that the fast bowler may not play another World Cup . Sport is entertainment for most fans but certainly not for players. For them it 's more than that. It 's a matter of playing with pride for their team and country. It 's a matter of feeling responsible for the millions of fans. It 's a matter of making them happy and when one fails , the pain of failure rends one 's heart . Having gone through several disappointments himself , Donald may end up having a compassionate and consoling chat with Steyn sooner rather than later . © Cricbuzz Tags
