Auckland , Wed , Mar 25 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Wednesday , 25 March , 2015 , 07 : 05 PM Matt Henry made his World Cup debut in the semi-final against South Africa in Auckland . He finished with figures of 8-2-40-0 . It has been a starry-eyed journey for Matt Henry , who made his World Cup debut in Auckland after Adam Milne was ruled out due to injury. © Getty Your name is Matt Henry , 23 , and you make your World Cup debut in a home semi-final , at Eden Park , against South Africa , for a New Zealand team that has gotten here unbeaten. You 're coming off six weeks of four-day cricket for Canterbury. You have n't bowled with a white ball since January 21 . Yet you 've leapfrogged original picks Mitchell McClenaghan and Kyle Mills to play this humungous match - the biggest for New Zealand in the tournament. You should have been in the squad from day one. You 're what Brendon McCullum likes - quick , energetic , an unknown commodity of sorts . Two days ago , you were packing your kit and about to head to Dunedin to play Otago. Then the phone rang , telling you that you were to link up with the Black Caps in Auckland. When that conversation ended , you must have let out a yelp , maybe punched the air. Did a wave well up inside you ? Only you will know . You rolled up at Eden Park a day before the big game , shook hands with your team-mates. Probably took some claps on the back. You must have looked around the field , tried to gauge the mood of a winning side. Maybe you noticed something in McClenaghan and Mills ' eyes , or in their movements. You trained hard. You felt good. Your stomach probably tightened and contracted a lot. You , and those who have followed your brief international career , know what you can do. You 've taken 21 ODI wickets in eight matches. You take a wicket every 19 balls. There 's something there , is n't it , Matt ? At 2 : 39 pm on a pleasant Auckland afternoon , your skipper beckons for you after Tim Southee 's first spell of 4-1-14-0. At the other end , Trent Boult is continuing his excellent tournament. He 's moving the ball like a snake charmer who gets his cobra to jive. He 's getting edges. He 's gotten one wicket to draw level with Geoff Allott 's 19 in 1999. Then he gets a second. New Zealand 's highest wicket-taker at a World Cup. Over to you , Matt . McCullum gives you the ball , then sets your field. You get three slips and a gully , a catching cover and midwicket. Did you get that in the Plunket Shield last week ? You bowl well , you bowl fast. You beat the bat. You find an inside edge. You generate pace. You get bounce. The crowd cheers your every rhythmic move. They chant your name in a wave. Henry , Henry , Henry goes the echo. Your heart must be pounding. Steady , Matt , steady. Your family is watching. Your Canterbury team-mates are willing you on. This is n't domestic cricket , is it ? Are you feeding off Boult 's tempo , the crowd 's support ? What 's the heart saying now ? Is the mind in control ? Do you feel at the top of the world ? Do you have a routine to stay calm , focused ? A favourite tune you whistle , sing in your head ? A far off place you think about ? Do you , like pitchers and batter in those Hollywood films on baseball , have a way to drown out the noise and zero in on your target ? You bowl two superb consecutive maiden overs. You have Faf du Plessis feeling for the ball. You beat his bat. Oooohs and aaahs from 41,000 spectators. When du Plessis defends one back , you pick up the ball and mock-throw it back to him. Steady on. Confident , are we ? After five excellent overs for nine runs. McCullum takes you off at 3 : 18 pm , pats your back when you 've taken your cap from the umpire. Again , the fans clap. Social media is buzzing about you . Twelve minutes later , you take a few swigs of power juice at the deep midwicket boundary , collect your thoughts. You raise a hand to the fans behind you. What did they say to you ? Are you feeling it ? Is n't this what you dreamed of ? You come back for a second spell and get hit back over your head for six by Faf du Plessis and then AB de Villiers takes you for two fours. It is not going so well now. What do you do ? Now your captain did n't give you an attacking field. You get a third over , a misfield adds another run. You do n't show emotion , only get behind the stumps to collect the throw. Your three overs go for 31 runs . Then it rains. For a long time. You 're in the dressing room , watching the clock , watching the TV screens , watching the weather. Time to gather yourself. Those eight overs bowled must be replayed over and over again in your head. What did I do right ? Why did n't I get a wicket ? Why did I bowl length to du Plessis ? Dammit. Is this all I can do today ? Martin Crowe , during the rain break , likens your action to a young Richard Hadlee. Oh the comparisons. No pressure , eh ? First ball after a lengthy , frustrating rain delay , you throw yourself around near the straight boundary to save three runs off a full-blooded de Villiers drive. The fans roar. Your smart work means that du Plessis , on 82 , is on strike. He nicks the next ball down the leg side. The not out decision is reviewed. Snicko shows a spike. Eden Park erupts. You played a part in that dismissal , you reckon ? That is your final act on the field. You do n't do anything else in the match , but you are part of an epic semi-final that your team wins with one delivery remaining. You clear the boundary line and run towards Grant Elliott , the hero of the day , and are part of the celebrations. You walk with your victorious team-mates on a lap of honour , clapping the Eden Park fans with each step. Have you ever felt so high ? Will this day ever be topped ? You 're Matt Henry. On the way to an MCG final. How does it feel ? © Cricbuzz Tags
