The tumult and the shouting Auckland , Wed , Mar 25 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Wednesday , 25 March , 2015 , 09 : 22 AM Brendon McCullum blasted a fifty off 22 balls in the semi-final of the World Cup against South Africa . Grant Elliott 's heroics helped New Zealand clinch the match by four wickets with one ball to spare . Brendon McCullum blasted 59 off 26 balls to give New Zealand a fantastic platform. © Getty " ... His palms are sweaty , knees weak , arms are heavy , there 's vomit on his sweater already , mom 's spaghetti , he 's nervous , but on the surface he looks calm and ready , to drop bombs , but he keeps on forgettin ' , what he wrote down , the whole crowd goes so loud , he opens his mouth , but the words wo n't come out , he 's chokin , how everybody 's jokin ' now , the clock 's run out , time 's up over , bloah ! " These lines from Emimen 's smash hit , 'Lose Yourself ' , could well have been reverberating in Brendon McCullum 's mind when he took guard and faced up to Dale Steyn for the second ball of New Zealand 's chase of 298 in 43 overs on Tuesday evening at Eden Park. A full house , 41,000 spectators watching his every action. A World Cup semi-final. The time of his and his team-mate 's lives , as McCullum has been saying over the past several weeks . Failure was unacceptable but real. It takes one ball. Ahead , Steyn - a superb athlete himself - had the ball in his hand. The target was mammoth. McCullum is prone to attack , swing , crash , burn , dazzle , deceive , soar , collapse. This was what it all came down to. The semi-final. South Africa. He had n't scored many in the past few games. The fans were on his side , but was McCullum capable today ? His heart pounded , raced . McCullum was hurried into defending the first ball , lost balance and a shoe in the process. What a start. He picked up his shoe. Collected his thoughts. Breathed. Adjusted his helmet. Tapped the pitch. Second ball , he flashed and missed. A groan from the Eden Park supporters. Baz , baz. What are you doing ? And then , boom. Six over extra cover. The noise was deafening. Fans on their feet , fists pumped , eyes on fire , voices raised in unison. Vernon Philander was then smacked for six over long leg , heaved over square leg , clipped for four more. Was McCullum nervous ? Or was he calm , ready to drop bombs ? Steyn 's third over sent the fans into delirium. Six , wide , four , six , four , four , dot. Insane batting from McCullum. The best fast bowler in the world , treated with disdain. Hair-raising stuff. McCullum was on fire , doing it his way. The way he led New Zealand into the semi-finals. He knew no other way. Adrenalin-fuelled batting that sapped South Africa 's three-pronged pace attack. The first blows were all New Zealand 's and belief had been given a new resonance . The magic ended in 32 minutes , with Steyn popping Morne Morke to mid-on. In 26 balls , 59 runs. The crowd had been lifted , the home team had been given a super platform. From 6.93 , the asking rate had been brought down to 6.1 thanks to McCullum. The captain had delivered , given them hope , made a very tough ask easier. On days like these , it often takes a couple of clutch performances to produce success. McCullum was the hero for New Zealand in the first chapter of an electric semi-final. Subtract his innings and the overall result would not have been possible. That attack jarred South Africa , make no mistake. Grant Elliott was the winner with a superb innings and had made headlines and terrific shop talk around the country , but it was McCullum who put New Zealand on course for an unforgettable win . New Zealand are in the World Cup final. Say it again. Hold that thought. Feel it. This is what they wanted , what they trained for , what they planned for. Unbeaten in the tournament. It has been impossible not to get caught up in the rush McCullum 's team has created . A day after the match , the talk of what the Blackcaps achieved on Tuesday at Eden Park is everywhere. On the trains , in taxis , at cafes , on sidewalks , on the radio waves , at the corner pub. At 11 am , men sipping pints of lager while listening to Simon and Garfunkel and R.E.M. are still gobsmacked at what transpired. " Shiny , happy people , " as R.E.M. frontman Michael Stipe sings of. The two men are talking of McCullum , Elliott and AB de Villiers. On a morning radio show , former New Zealand allrounder Scott Styris talks of how well the World Cup debutant Matt Henry bowled. Jeremy Coney , who led the Test team during the glorious 1980s , marvels at the success of this New Zealand side under McCullum. The fans have sent their team to Australia , to the MCG , with all their best wishes. They believe the biggest prize is achievable. This is what McCullum 's team has done to the country. A rugby-mad country. It is remarkable . There is a poster advertising the World Cup that is visible everywhere in this country. It greets you at airports , on buses , on walls , in media centres and on hoardings. It shows McCullum walking out onto the cricket field from a tunnel , his bat hanging in his left hand , his name printed on the back of his jersey. He is stepping out through a sea of New Zealand flags and hands reaching out to cheer him. It is a slickly designed poster , made to tingle the senses. McCullum is the warrior walking out onto the battle field. The tagline 'Greatness is Contagious ' is meant to tighten the mood of this World Cup spectacle , to gee up fans in this land of rugby , where cricket is a distant second to that sport . McCullum and his New Zealand are at the doorstep of greatness. On Sunday at the arena that is the MCG , McCullum will step out onto the turf one last time in the World Cup , with people calling his name. It wo n't be like Auckland , Wellington or Christchurch. It will be Australia ; tough , scarring , condescending Australia. A nation will watch him from back home , willing him to touch glory . McCullum will take guard. His heart will again pound , perhaps harder than it ever has. His nerves will tingle , his skin taught with determination. He will chew his gum , flip his bat in his hands , adjust his helmet , feel the pitch. The lights will be bright , the roar loud , the noise defining. A bowler will mark his run-up , flip the ball in his hands , lock his sights on McCullum , and run in hard. McCullum will tap his bat , twice , hunched over , then look up and lift his bat , his sword , with his elbow poised and his front foot inching forward. And then... . © Cricbuzz Tags
