Kohli : 2011 World Cup win made me the player I 'm today Wed , Mar 25 2015 Last updated on Wednesday , 25 March , 2015 , 08 : 02 AM Kohli spoke of Dhoni in glowing terms. © Cricbuzz India batsman Virat Kohli believes the 2011 World Cup win was the making of him. While many great players have left the game without having experienced the joy of winning a World Cup , Kohli was just 22 when India beat Sri Lanka at the Wankhede Stadium to lift the trophy four years ago , an experience that has made him the player he is today . " I gained a lot of confidence from that World Cup. In my very first World Cup , I was part of the triumphant squad , and I was a world champion already at the age of 22. It gave me confidence from the fact that we had achieved something special. When we ended up winning , it was a very special memory. I could n't really connect to the kind of emotion that all the other senior players had because they had n't won it for so long. To see all that emotion come out , I really understood the importance of a cricket World Cup , " Kohli told bcci.tv in an interview ahead of India 's semi-final against Australia on Thursday at the Sydney Cricket Ground . " From that day on , maybe even before that , I always wanted to be the best player in the world. I wanted to be among the best players that people would speak about. I always wanted to be a player that will be known even when I finished my career as a cricketer. I never wanted to be on the sidelines or be one of the players in the side. " India have won seven matches in a row in the 2015 World Cup and that has brought MS Dhoni and the team a lot of praise. The 26-year-old Kohli , who took over the Test reins during the four-game series against Australia weeks before the World Cup , spoke of Dhoni in glowing terms and revealed that he had broken down in the wake of Dhoni 's sudden retirement from Test cricket . " No , I never thought of it [ whether he knew he would be captaining India one day ] . I honestly always wanted to play Test cricket for India and it was my dream. But Test captaincy was something I never imagined. I never thought MS Dhoni would retire this early from Test cricket and especially not in between the series for sure , " Kohli said . " That came as a shock and it was indeed a very emotional day for me. I came back to the hotel and I just broke down in my room. It was a pretty sad moment watching a leader who groomed all of us over the last few years , not playing Test cricket anymore. " Knowing very well that Dhoni wo n't be there for long , Kohli said he was trying to learn as much as possible from the India limited-overs captain. " I have been vice-captain for the ODI side and I would always keep giving inputs to MS about the things that I felt he could use. Now , in recent times knowing the fact that I probably will have to lead the side in the ODIs as well in the future at some point of time , I see more of how Dhoni changes his bowlers , at what stages and situations of the game. I notice when he brings the spinners on , figuring out the strengths and weaknesses of the batsmen , the wicket condition and the field placement etc. That is something that I have started learning a lot more in recent times. " The memories of a jam-packed Wankhede were still vivid in Kohli 's mind and he said it would be great if India managed to do a repeat of their 2011 success at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on March 29. " Absolutely. You could n't ask for two better places to play cricket. Wankhede was as loud as any cricket stadium I have ever experienced so far in my life and MCG against South Africa was unbelievable. I heard it was better than the grand final of the AFL ; that was something very pleasing to hear. Once we reach the final , I can assure you there wo n't be a seat empty in the stadium for sure . " This World Cup is a great opportunity for us to do something that has never been done in Indian cricket , which is to win it back-to-back. Especially in conditions away from home , not many people gave us a chance to even qualify. But we have won seven games in a row. People are looking at us as favorites now. The experience has been wonderful so far and if we end up winning it on that day , it will be a memory to cherish all my life. " © Cricbuzz
