An intense , bitter battle on the cards Wed , Mar 25 2015 by CB Staff Last updated on Wednesday , 25 March , 2015 , 09 : 11 AM Australia have never lost in the semi-finals of the World Cup . India have won 11 consecutive matches in the World Cup . India have won only one ODI out of 14 against Australia in Sydney . Mitchell Starc , with 18 wickets in the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup , will be a major factor in the semi-final against India on Thursday. © Getty India have enjoyed a great time in the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup. They have won all their matches and they are now on a 11-match winning streak in World Cups. Their bowlers have bowled the opposition out in all the matches and heading into the semi-final , the defending champions have tremendous momentum . However , their opponents are also in great form and they will be aiming for revenge. In the 2011 World Cup , India knocked Australia out in the quarter-finals and Australia will be hoping to pay them back. Australia will also be aware that India have not defeated them all summer , losing the Test series 2-0 , losing one match in the tri-series and also losing the warm-up game heading into the tournament . In the semi-final , there will be some crucial battles fought. Here is a look at the key battles that could shape the course of the match . 1 Mitchell Starc v Shikhar Dhawan Mitchell Starc has been the key weapon in Australia 's pace bowling arsenal in this tournament. He has picked up 18 wickets at a phenomenal average of 9.77 and a strike rate of 15.6. Starc 's exploits with the new ball have given Australia the advantage of building pressure right from the start and India , in particular , Shikhar Dhawan will be aware of the damage he can cause. Dhawan has not had a comfortable time against Starc in ODIs. In the last two ODIs between these two teams , Dhawan was dismissed cheaply by Starc and on both occasions , he was caught in the slips. With 367 runs at an average of 52 , Dhawan is in great form and he knows that if he can negotiate Starc , he can go on and hurt Australia . 2 Mitchell Johnson v Rohit Sharma Rohit Sharma likes batting against Australia. He has an average of 58.71 in ODIs against them and in the tri-series , Rohit started off with a bang by scoring 138 in Melbourne. In the World Cup , he has performed well against the lesser teams but against the big teams , he has struggled a bit. However , heading into the semi-final , Rohit will be high on confidence following his century against Bangladesh in the quarter-finals . Rohit , though , will know the damage Mitchell Johnson can cause on day. During the second Test in Brisbane , Rohit engaged in a sledging duel with Johnson and it proved to be costly for India. Johnson smashed an aggressive 88 and picked up 4 wickets , including Rohit in the second innings to give Australia victory. Johnson has underperformed in this World Cup so far but he will be desperate to put in a hostile show on the big stage. Johnson must realise that he needs to be the leader of the attack , not the leader of a sledging unit . 3 Virat Kohli v Steven Smith It is the battle between two similar players with similar fortunes. Both players are vital elements in their respective team 's batting line-ups. Both had a magnificent Test series and both have not set the batting charts on fire in this World Cup . Virat Kohli has enjoyed his time in Australia , amassing 692 runs in four Tests at an average of 86 with four centuries. After starting off with a century against Pakistan in the first match of the World Cup , Kohli has gotten starts but has failed to convert them into a big score. However , his opposing rival , Steven Smith , has justified 'Anything you can do , I can do better.' When Kohli was piling on the runs , Smith was also hurting India immensely with 769 runs in the Tests at a whopping average of 128. In this World Cup , Smith has not yet delivered the goods with 241 runs at an average of 48. Against his favorite opposition , Smith will be aiming for greater returns . 4 Glenn Maxwell v R Ashwin The rivalry between Glenn Maxwell and R Ashwin has been simmering for quite some time. The Australian dasher has always held the advantage over India 's premier spinner. In the T20Is and in the IPL , Maxwell has torn Ashwin apart on several occasions and after his 38-ball 90 for Kings XI Punjab against Chennai Super Kings in IPL 7 , Maxwell said that he enjoyed facing Ashwin as he was easy to pick . The stats concur with Maxwell 's assessment. In seven ODIs that Ashwin has played against Maxwell , he has dismissed him in only one match and that was two years ago in Nagpur but it was after the batsman had smashed two consecutive fours off him of the previous two balls . Maxwell is the leading run-scorer for Australia in this edition with 301 runs at an average of 75. His audacious batting will be a major concern for India but Ashwin , with 12 wickets , is also in good form. India will be aware of the damage Maxwell can cause in Sydney , where he smashed a 51-ball hundred against Sri Lanka. Ashwin 's aim will be simple. Get rid of the Big Show and become the showstopper . © Cricbuzz Tags
