Rohit Sharma draws motivation from jersey and familiar rivals Sydney , Wed , Mar 25 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Wednesday , 25 March , 2015 , 11 : 14 AM Rohit has vivid memories of his match-winning fifty in Sydney in 2008. © AFP India opener Rohit Sharma insists that wearing the team jersey is enough to motivate him and he does not need someone else to pump him up in the ICC Cricket World Cup semifinal against Australia on Thursday. But , he has great memories of the Sydney Cricket Ground from back in March 2008 when he helped India beat Australia in their first CB Series final . " It is important for me when I wear that India cap , I need to work hard. I do n't need anyone else to come and talk or whatever it is. I bat the way I want to and I think I would make sure that nothing gets into the head. I just want to play my game. It does n't matter what people are talking and things like that , " he said about the prospect of being needled on Thursday . Of course , in the seven years since he embarked on his maiden tour of Australia as a 20-year-old with barely four ODIs under his belt , Rohit Sharma has evolved a great deal. He has been on a roller-coaster journey , playing fewer games than Virat Kohli. But his transition as opener just over two years ago has helped him consolidate his place in the squad . " Over the years I 've learnt a lot of things. Certainly batting up the order has changed my game , my approach towards the game and the responsibility , " he said. " I know if I 'm batting top of the order there is a huge responsibility and I have to take my team through. So every time I go to bat I think about that. I 've really enjoyed the last two years of batting top of the order. " Interestingly , Rohit said he did n't need to practice 'ugly ' shots since he could stick to good shots. " If I can play a good shot , I do n't think I need to play an ugly shot. When you play those big shots , it 's important to stick to a lot of basics , to hold your shape. A lot of techniques and technical issues go into such things. If you can stand straighter or hit straight over the bowler , I do n't think there is any need for you to make those fancy shots. " He also revealed that he does not think about his run-rate or how many balls he has faced. " The only thing that is going on in my mind is that one batter will have to stay till the end. If wickets fall at the other end , I have to make sure that I bat through because I know in the Powerplay , with five fielders inside , we can always come up and score runs. If you 're a set batsman , you can score runs quite easily. " The only batsman with two double centuries in ODIs , including the world record of 264 , Rohit did n't need much prodding to recall his knock of 66 against Australia on March 2 , 2008. " It was a very important game. We had to win that game and we were chasing 240-odd. So , yeah , we pretty much did whatever we wanted to , " he said . " It 's been a long time. Seven years. I can recall that very well. It 's really fresh in my memory because it was the first final of the CB series , and the great Sachin Tendulkar was batting alongside me , so there is no way I can forget that , " he said of the time when he shared a century stand with Tendulkar and rallied the team from 87 for 2 to the threshold of victory . Back then , it was only his third half-century but it can be safely said that the Rohit Sharma of today has come a long way. How well the man with three centuries against Australia , with the latest coming in January , starts with Shikhar Dhawan on Thursday could showcase how strong India 's resolve to beat the home side in the big game . © Cricbuzz
