Ganguly : SCG battle between Dhoni and Clarke Sydney , Wed , Mar 25 2015 by Sourav Ganguly Last updated on Wednesday , 25 March , 2015 , 03 : 35 PM Dhoni has led India to three world championship wins. © Getty It 's a big game tomorrow at the Cricket World Cup. Big game for India , big game for Indian supporters , big game for past players like me. And a big game for thousands and millions of people who will be glued to TV to watch the India-Australia semifinal. It 's a semifinal between two outstanding teams. Along with New Zealand , two of the best teams of the competition. There has been a lot of talk before the start of the game about the pitch and sledging. Firstly , the pitch. To me it 's going to be a good surface in Sydney . For me as an Indian , I would just want it to spin a little bit. I do n't know whether it will spin or not but if it does I think it will be the best news for the Indian spinners who I think will have a huge role to play in this game . The weather conditions were a bit overcast and rainy over the last couple of days but I do n't think it 's going to have any effect on the surface. The covers these days are outstanding. We saw in Auckland when the rain poured down for an hour and a half , there were covers on the surface and New Zealand came and chased down the South African target . Once again tomorrow , rain and the overcast conditions will have no effect on the surface. In big semifinals , they say win the toss , bat first and put the opposition under pressure. However , New Zealand managed to chase down a big total yesterday and I think that 's going to give confidence to both the sides going out to the toss tomorrow.It does n't matter whether you win it or lose it , you will still have to play well over 100 overs to win the game . The sides for me remain unchanged. It could be a question of another spinner for Australia but I do n't think they will go in with Xavier Doherty. They will go in with the combination that won them the game in Adelaide against Pakistan . India will be unchanged too. We will go with the same side. These are two different sides. They play these games differently. One side packed with fast bowlers and for the other side , spinners will come into play as the game progresses . The pitch once again will be the focus but you will never know till you bowl a ball on it. Overall , I presume it 's going to be a good batting surface. The side winning the toss will look to bat first , post a big total and put the opposition under pressure . For India , I think , the man would be Virat Kohli. He had a fabulous Test series against Australia ; his record against Australia is outstanding. He is one of the biggest match-winners in one-day cricket for the team and at the moment and he will be pumped up. Kohli will play a big knock tomorrow. Do n't sledge him. That 's my advice to Mitchell Johnson and Mitchell Starc. Because they did that in the Test matches and he came out with four hundreds . It 's a big stage and there are various match-winners. David Warner , Aaron Finch , Glenn Maxwell , Shane Watson , Michael Clarke and Steven Smith for Australia. For India , Virat Kohli , Shikar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma and the captain himself . It 's gon na be a battle between the two captains. We saw how AB de Villiers gave the game away to New Zealand and I mean it when I say it. But tomorrow it will be a battle between two captains who are very good leaders. MS Dhoni is slightly ahead because he has already led the team to three world championship wins - one World Cup , one T20 World Cup and one Champions Trophy. Clarke has played in a World Cup-winning team but has not captained a World Cup-winning team. For me the pressure will be on Australia. It 's a home game at the SCG. They say it 's going be more Blue than Gold tomorrow but still the pressure will be on Australia . © Cricbuzz
