JP Duminy appointed captain of Delhi Daredevils for IPL 2015 Wed , Mar 25 2015 Last updated on Wednesday , 25 March , 2015 , 05 : 32 PM JP Duminy will lead the Delhi Daredevils team in the 2015 edition of the IPL. © AFP South African allrounder JP Duminy has been named captain of the Delhi Daredevils side for the upcoming edition of the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) , the franchise announced . Duminy was one of few players to be retained by the team after a disastrous campaign in 2014 , while they let go of big names such as Kevin Pietersen , Dinesh Karthik , Murali Vijay , Ross Taylor and Wayne Parnell among others . Duminy will lead a team that has a few more South Africans like Quinton de Kock , Imran Tahir and Albie Morkel , while the head coach of the side and a World Cup winning coach Gary Kirsten is also a South African . Other prominent names include Yuvraj Singh , who was bought for a whooping Rs 16 Crore , as well as Sri Lanka 's Angelo Mathews and experienced Indian pacer Zaheer Khan . Duminy recently became the first South African to claim a hat-trick in the World Cup when the Proteas eased past Sri Lanka in the quarter-final of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015. However , South Africa suffered a heart-break in the semi-final , which co-hosts New Zealand won by four wickets with a delivery to spare . Delhi Daredevils squad : Jean-Paul Duminy ( capt ) , Kedar Jadhav , Manoj Tiwary , Mohammed Shami , Nathan Coulter-Nile , Quinton De Kock ( wk ) , Saurabh Tiwary , Shahbaz Nadeem , Mayank Agarwal , Imran Tahir , Jayant Yadav , Angelo Mathews , Yuvraj Singh , Amit Mishra , Jaydev Unadkat , Gurinder Sandhu , Shreyas Iyer , CM Gautam ( wk ) , Dominic Muthuswamy , Albie Morkel , Travis Head , Marcus Stoinis , Kona Srikar Bharat , KK Jiyaz , Zaheer Khan . # dilliboys got a Cap'n finally ! Announcing the Captain of Delhi Daredevils : @ jpduminy21 . Congratulations ! pic.twitter.com/FsuuyMFEWJ — Delhi Daredevils ( @ DelhiDaredevils ) March 25 , 2015 Congratulations @ jpduminy21 on being announced as @ DelhiDaredevils skipper for the upcoming # IPL season ...cheers ! ! — zaheer khan ( @ ImZaheer ) March 25 , 2015 © Cricbuzz
