Ravi Bopara slams 'team culture ' for repeated failures New Delhi , Thu , Mar 26 2015 Last updated on Thursday , 26 March , 2015 , 07 : 16 AM Bopara will play the upcoming season of IPL with Sunrisers Hyderabad © Getty England allrounder Ravi Bopara cited the team 's " English " attitude as the reason for its dismal performance in the Cricket World Cup 2015. Bopara featured in just one game , the dead-rubber game against Afghanistan , as England crashed out of the tournament after the group stages . Bopara , who played in each of England 's games in the tri-series building up to the World Cup , was left out of the side to play an extra batsman in the top order , a decision that left the 29-year old angry. Bopara , however , said that England 's predicament has as much to do with the team culture as it is with selection policies . " We need to stop being so English , " Bopara said. We are really English at times and it feels institutionalised. We need to change our culture and we need to change it quickly. For too long we have been worried about what people think of us. We should be honest with everyone ; say it straight up. We were n't good enough in the World Cup. Other teams have developed their skills a lot faster than we have because they were honest enough to say it earlier. " Following the experience of watching the bulk of the World Cup from the sidelines , Bopara heads to the IPL to play for Sunrisers Hyderabad with a point to prove but the frustration of missing out on opportunities in the World Cup continues to prick the Englishman. " The World Cup was really frustrating for everybody but especially on a personal note. I would love to have played , " Bopara said. " Leading up to the World Cup we had a settled team and we were all ready. We were quite chilled. And then things just changed all of a sudden and I dont know why. " " I got angry with the team changes. Angry with myself and with the guys that made the decision. I said to myself then , 'Right , from now on I 'm going to move ahead and be better than the rest' . " It 's just so frustrating , even sitting here now I am thinking I had no opportunity to make an impact on that World Cup.I would rather have played and had a shocker than not played at all. " Bopara gave the example of India to emphasise the need to create a relaxed atmosphere in the team. " We need to be a bit more free as players , to stop worrying about the consequences. If you look at other countries they are more open about things and more honest about things. Take the example of the India team eating a McDonalds on the outfield here last summer. What 's wrong with that ? They were not worried about how they looked , they were hungry and they wanted to eat. " One of the biggest criticisms for the English team has been their over-reliance on 'data ' and Bopara said that was n't helpful at all. " South Africa scoring 400 , Australia scoring 400 , you do n't need the data. You do n't check what over they start going in , you just know you need to get 350. I think we do limit ourselves as English cricketers and I think the system limits us. " © Cricbuzz
