Smith 's top ton helps Australia set India a massive challenge Sydney , Thu , Mar 26 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Thursday , 26 March , 2015 , 08 : 41 AM Steven Smith scored his maiden World Cup century. © AFP Steven Smith played an innings of beauty , scoring a World Cup hundred , and Aaron Finch battled demons of timing to make a half-century , as Australia challenged India to make 329 to win the Cricket World Cup 2015 semifinal on a true Sydney Cricket Ground pitch on Thursday . A wonderful crowd , evenly matched by supporters of both teams , enjoyed the batting display and will be hoping that the ball does not behave very differently under lights when India seek to launch one of the biggest chases on such a platform. The Indians in the audience , as noisy as ever , will expect a show of character from the team 's key batsmen . Australia made the most of the opportunity to bat first after Dhoni called the spin of the coin wrong. The wicket , two-paced in the last game featuring South Africa and Sri Lanka , turned out a beauty. Despite David Warner losing his wicket early , Smith and Finch batted without much discomfort against the Indian pace trio and put on 184 runs for the second wicket . Smith , who has been pressed to bat at No. 3 ahead of Shane Watson in the last few games for Australia , came up with a flawless innings against pace and spin. He used the pull with telling effect as he made 105 off just 93 deliveries ( 11 fours , two sixes ) to make up for Finch 's trouble with timing . Smith 's contribution to the Australian innings went beyond his own runs since his confidence rubbed on to Finch so much that the opener lasted long enough at the crease to find his sense of timing and make 81 off 116 balls ( seven fours , one six ) . Finch found the comfort to be able to let some attacking strokes punctuate his sensible approach . At the 33-over mark , Australia were 181 for 1 and looked on course to a 350-plus score but they kept losing wickets after Smith 's fall to a good catch against the sun by Rohit Sharma at deep midwicket. The batting Powerplay had fetched them 64 runs but Australia 's hunger to stamp their dominance saw them leave without any of the top-order batting deep into the innings . The flurry of wickets after Smith 's fall in the 35th over left Australia with at least 30 to 40 runs fewer than they would have expected heading into batting Powerplay. Paceman Umesh Yadav finished with four wickets but went at eight runs an over on a day when offspinner R Ashwin was the best Indian bowler on view , despite having only Glenn Maxwell 's wicket to show . Mitchell Johnson slammed an unbeaten 27 off nine deliveries to take Australia past the 325-run mark in the final over to increase pressure of the scoreboard on India when they set about chasing a victory that will carry them to their second successive final. The batsmen will have to see India home , much like they did in Jaipur and Nagpur when they chased down 350 + a year and a half ago . Brief scores : Australia 328/7 in 50 overs ( Smith 105 , Finch 81 ; Yadav 4/72 ) vs India © Cricbuzz Tags
