Dhoni defends Kohli , says Indian batting is in good hands Thu , Mar 26 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Thursday , 26 March , 2015 , 02 : 51 PM Kohli attempted to pull from outside the off-stump and offering a top-edged catch. © AFP India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni defended his deputy Virat Kohli 's choice of shot against Australian paceman Mitchell Johnson in the ICC Cricket World Cup semifinal at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Thursday night. " He played a shot and it did n't pay off. It happens , and it happens to a lot of batsmen , " Dhoni said . " Once the opposition puts over 300 runs on the board and have quality bowlers , at some point of time you have to take that risk , and if it pays off , if it clicks , all of a sudden everything changes. He played a shot , it did n't pay off. That 's it. I would say it happens in cricket , " he said of Kohli 's attempt to pull from outside the off-stump and offering a top-edged catch . He said the team had done well to not concede a wicket to the Australian new ball bowlers for 12 overs but the loss of three wickets set India back so much that it was difficult from then on. " Australia had a good partnership through to the middle phase and could take extra risks once they passed the 25th over , " he said . Dhoni offered a vote of confidence to the batting line-up. " You will see in the coming years that we will continue with the same line-up. They will have learnt a lot on the tour and those learnings will come in handy when we travel outside the sub-continent to play Test matches , " he said . Dhoni said it was more difficult for newcomers to come and bat into the Indian team. " If they start batting at No. 5 or 6 , they would not get the maturity needed. More often than not in the subcontinent you do n't have enough chance to bat the last 10 overs. You need close to 70 , 80 or 90 games to get the same kind of experience but we started backing them up , " he said " ( Suresh ) Raina was the one we had to push back because he 's a special talent and he can do the work of batting at No. 5 and 6. I had to push myself back so that Virat ( Kohli ) , Rohit ( Sharma ) and Ajinkya ( Rahane ) could bat up the order , " he said of the effort to build a balanced batting line-up . " It does n't really suit Ajinkya if we bat up and he had to do Raina 's or my job batting at No. 6. It wo n't really pay off. The overall health of the batting line-up is good if Ajinkya is batting at four , Raina at five , me at six. It was a conscious attempt to make sure that all these youngsters , they bat up the order , " he said . Dhoni was quite philosophical and accepting of the fact that the team no longer held the ICC Cricket World Cup. " Well , it 's something that does n't really belong to anyone. We definitely took it from someone , so somebody took it from us. It 's as simple as that , " he said when asked if he was sad that the team did not have the right to keep the trophy . " The best team takes it for four years and then everybody gets their own plans ready , depending on the conditions , and they challenge the one that has the Cup. If we had played better cricket on this particular day , maybe we would have gone into the final. In international sport , you have to be at your best. If not , the Cup gets shared , " he said . He was just as candid about his legacy as captain. " Frankly , it does n't really matter. For me every time I turn up , for me what 's important is to do something special so that I can be part of or I can contribute to the win. What people think about me as a player or what I have done , it does n't really matter because I play to enjoy the game , " he said . " The day I pack my bags I pack it , and I 'll be happy on my bike. " © Cricbuzz
