Thu , Mar 26 2015 by Sonali Dhulap Last updated on Friday , 27 March , 2015 , 06 : 14 AM It is ironic that a team with so much support wherever it goes is not safe within its own country As long as we continue to abuse our limitless power as fans , we will continue to be a part of this addictive hypocrisy Our frenzied devotion towards cricket makes us Indians different but then so does our need for scapegoats. © Getty 14 : 30 IST " I request to all people to go and throw stones at the house of Anushka Sharma who is the main reason for the defeat of India " A self-proclaimed superstar tweets this just seconds after India lose their second wicket in the 16th over of the game. Twitter goes crazy and so does Whatsapp. India are inching towards their first defeat in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 and it is being blamed on one woman. Her fault , you ask ? She is the girlfriend of India 's best batsman and vice-captain Virat Kohli. As India struggle and lose a couple of more wickets , the frequency of jokes increases. People are mindlessly forwarding , re-tweeting , and posting anything they come across. It does not matter any more that India were unbeaten in the competition before facing Australia. It does not matter they took 70 wickets in seven games. It does not matter they fielded superbly , scored runs or that they bowled exceptionally well. They will be knocked out today and that is unforgivable . 15 : 45 IST Six wickets down and this breaking news flashes on the screen - " Ranchi police tighten security at Indian skipper MS Dhoni 's residence as team stares at defeat in the World Cup semi-final. " The Indian players will soon require protection from their own countrymen. The stone-throwing will start , followed by burning of effigies , sick jokes on repeat on social media sites , and maybe a panel of 10 disinterested experts on some TV channel dissecting the game to death. India have lost and that is not something people can live with . 17 : 30 IST The media dissolves into a frenzy. News channels across the country question the humiliating loss. " Why MSD never shows his emotions after the team 's loss ? " a panellist asks. Too many senseless questions but not even a slightest acknowledgement of the team 's remarkable run so far. Angry fans march on roads and publicly break their TV sets in Kanpur. The social media hits back with equal amounts of genuine praise and scathing insults. India have crashed out and the gates of hell are open . When South Africa lost a closely-fought game against New Zealand in the first semi-final , the images of their players breaking down on the field went viral. One could n't help feel sorry for AB de Villiers , his eyes swollen and red , apologising to the fans during the press conference. People all around the world were gutted for him. They admitted their massive respect for him. In all probability , the run-out chance of Corey Anderson that he missed , cost South Africa the game. But nobody even 'thought ' about harming him or his family. What if AB de Villiers was an Indian ? I shudder to think . A year ago in the aftermath of India 's defeat against Sri Lanka in the World T20 final , Yuvraj Singh 's house was pelted with stones. Fans believed his excruciatingly slow innings halted India 's momentum and that their anger was justified. Even MS Dhoni 's house has been pelted with stones before. And remember the 2007 World Cup when India bowed out in the first round ? An under-construction wall of Dhoni 's house was demolished by angry fans. Effigies of the then captain Rahul Dravid were burned on the streets. Had our players done something so unpardonable ? Indians are believed to be passionate people , their love for the game bordering on jingoism. The sheer number of Indians even at foreign locations is overwhelming. All matches that India played in the World Cup attracted a large number of home crowd. Even today 70 percent of the match tickets were bought by Indians. How ironic that a team with so much support wherever it goes is not safe within its own country ! Before the World Cup began , everyone had written India off. Even a place in the quarter-finals looked unlikely. But their remarkable turnaround gave people hope. India 's bowling attack , thought to be the weakest , suddenly became the 'hero ' of their campaign. And that changed everything. The fact that we won seven games in a row so convincingly conferred on the fans a sense of invincibility. The despair after such a big loss is understandable but does that give us a right to be offensive to the people we love and respect ? Nothing is constant. Not even our memories. They are fleeting and volatile. Eventually we move onto different things to seek amusement. Already , the whispers of 'The IPL is less than two weeks away ' have started doing rounds. Soon , not even a trace of this defeat will loom over us. We will forget about the stones we threw , the posters we burned , the TV sets we broke , and the distasteful jokes we forwarded. But the players towards whom we directed this at , will always carry it within themselves , wrapped in the cocoon of their own disappointment. How often do we forget that time can only heal wounds , not erase scars. As long as we continue to abuse our limitless power as fans , we will continue to be a part of this addictive hypocrisy. Agreed our frenzied devotion towards cricket makes us Indians different but then so does our need for scapegoats . © Cricbuzz
