New Zealand not intimated by the MCG : McCullum Melbourne , Sat , Mar 28 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Saturday , 28 March , 2015 , 04 : 51 AM New Zealand will play their first game in Australia this World Cup McCullum believes both teams have played the same brand of cricket and expects Sunday 's final to produce a great contest McCullum exuded confidence and hoped that there would be significant support for his team © Getty As if Australia did n't need further motivation to win a home World Cup against co-hosts New Zealand , with whom they share a trans-Tasman rivalry , they have now been driven to end the tournament by sending off Michael Clarke with a memorable title triumph. Clarke 's announcement on Saturday that he was retiring from ODIs after the big match has turned the heat further on New Zealand , who will play their first match of what has been a memorable tournament away from home , and that too at the MCG , one of the greatest sporting arenas where visiting teams have felt the heat like nowhere else . Australia appear the favourites at a ground on which they 've played far more cricket than their opponents. The G. The Colosseum. This will be New Zealand 's first World Cup match away from home. They will not enjoy the support of Eden Park and Westpac Stadium. They have not played at the MCG since 2011. The boundaries wo n't be small , the opportunity to run threes will present themselves. Fielders in the deep will need to be swift , because doubles will be easy. But size will not be the only challenge for McCullum 's team . The MCG will test them , maybe even taunt them , never mind that McCullum , a day before the final , exuded confidence and hoped that there would be a sizeable dosage of support for his Blackcaps . " No , we 're not intimidated , I do n't think , " he said. " We 're excited. I guess right through the week there 's been a healthy sort of chat about those things externally. But from our point of view we 're just going about our work in the same way. We know if we play well we 'll be tough to beat , and , yeah , that 's pretty much our preparation. I reckon we might have the home crowd tomorrow actually. I think it 's probably no secret that most of the other teams around the world would probably fair New Zealand to win in Australia. So hopefully we 'll get a good smattering of support tomorrow , and I 'm sure the Indian guys will certainly be rooting for us. " For McCullum and his men , Sunday will be the culmination of a tournament that has seen them stay unbeaten , taking down teams like Australia , Sri Lanka and South Africa along the way. They have been tested , such as when chasing 152 against Australia at Eden Park and 143 versus Scotland in Dunedin and , for a while , in pursuit of a tricky Bangladesh total in Hamilton. But they have dazzled , uplifted , and at times confounded their supporters . Wholesome. That is the word best fitted to the New Zealand cricket team 's campaign under McCullum at the World Cup. New Zealanders have been left exhilarated and marvelling at this unbeaten run. They have soared , they have expected , they have hoped. They have played some excellent cricket , they have bowled superbly in patches and with the bat there have been some crackling innings. McCullum thrice smashed belligerent fifties , Martin Guptill coasted to 237 not out , Grant Elliott produced the inning of his life against South Africa during the semi-final. Trent Boult and Tim Southee have bowled crippling fast bowling spells. Daniel Vettori has stymied opposing teams with his nagging left-arm spin , even taken the catch of the tournament . But now , it 's the Aussies they must beat. The second best team in the World Cup , people will tell you. Or are they the best ? Sunday at the MCG is what McCullum and his team-mates are desperate to win . " A hundred thousand people in Australia 's backyard , the Melbourne Cricket Ground and the history and traditions and against a very good Australian side , " said McCullum. " It 's been a great ride so far. I guess this is the ultimate game for us to be able to play in everyone 's theory. So with that I 'm sure some guys will be nervous tomorrow morning , there is some excitement about us going out there tomorrow and putting our skills against the best in their backyard. So that certainly whets the appetite and creates the greatest stage we can ask for. So it 's certainly going to be a special day. " McCullum 's attacking brand of cricket has been instrumental in success , and he knows that New Zealand will bring the same against Australia , a team he reckoned played along the same lines . " I guess I look at the way they play the game skill-wise , and the way we play the game skill-wise. We probably try to play it pretty similar. Both teams go about their work slightly different , " he said. " But in terms of the fundamentals of the game , I think it 's played recently similar. They 're very attacking as well , led by Michael Clarke and his innovation as captain too. And [ in ] their top order , they 've got some devastating stroke players as well. And obviously their bowlers look to try to swing the ball and take wickets . " So you flip that over and it 's probably similar to us. On the day , that 's why you see such great contests as we saw the last time when both teams went toe to toe , and I 'm sure tomorrow will be no different. Yeah , the outcome is unknown at this point in time , But I know the style of play we 'll take out there tomorrow. And I 'm pretty confident Australia will bring the same , so it should be another really good contest. " And you can be certain that McCullum 's approach to Sunday will be the same as was the case in Auckland , Napier , Hamilton , Wellington and Dunedin. His message to the team will be the same. There is no challenge which is insurmountable . " With a lot of hard work , lot of heart , lot of belief , we make sure that everyone 's heading in the same direction. You 're able to play a brand of cricket that gives you your greatest chance , and that 's what we 've had throughout this World Cup and we 've built over a period of time , " he said . " Again , it does n't guarantee you success , but it gives you the greatest chance. I know tomorrow we 'll still remain authentic to how we play. We 'll play an aggressive brand of cricket with bat and ball in the field. We 'll play with the humility which we 've played with throughout this campaign as well. And hopefully the big fella upstairs shines on us when the pressure situations comes into play. " © Cricbuzz
