Australia chase gold against 'closer ' rivals New Zealand Melbourne , Sat , Mar 28 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Saturday , 28 March , 2015 , 05 : 49 AM Australia skipper Michael Clarke has said there is great mutual respect between the two teams . All 15 players in the World Cup squad are available for selection . Michael Clarke and Brendon McCullum pose with the ICC Cricket World Cup trophy at the MCG. © Getty It was meant to be just a photo shoot , the Australian and New Zealand captains , Michael Clarke and Brendon McCullum , with the ICC Cricket World Cup at the iconic Melbourne Cricket Ground a day ahead of their title clash on Sunday. But it offered them a chance to have a private conversation in full public eye . Clarke insisted that there was not much more to their conversation other than wishing each other 's teams the best in the final. But , he also let slip a crucial bit on information at the media interaction on Saturday when he said he would always be grateful for the way McCullum and his team reacted to the Phillip Hughes tragedy and respected Phillip 's family . " I have a great relationship with Brendon but that ( the way McCullum and his team reacted to the tragedy and respected Phillip 's family ) probably brought us closer together , " Clarke said , hinting at the mutual respect that the teams now shared after years of bitter cricketing rivalry that made writers brand them squabbling siblings . It may be recalled that New Zealand were playing a Test against Pakistan in Sharjah when news of Hughes ' death broke out. The teams abandoned play for a day , joined the # putyourbatsout tribute , wore black arm bands when the Test resumed. McCullum went on record to say that the team 's focus was not on their performances , it was all about Hughes . " We are reaching out to Phil 's family , Clarke and the Australian boys , medical staff , fans , all who have been affected by Phil 's passing. We are also reaching out to Sean Abbott. You 're all in our thoughts , our hearts and , in Phil 's case , our memories. Cricket is a sport but the cricket community is a family. We are here for you ; we are thinking of you , " he had said . Clarke had already said his team would have to play its best cricket to beat New Zealand , the form team of the competition. " Once we walk out onto that field , we know it 's going to be an extremely tough battle and we 're going to be up for that , but off the field , both teams get on really well , " he said. " I think there 's always that great rivalry between Australia and New Zealand. There 's a great mutual respect between both teams. " On Saturday , he exuded confidence despite having to calm his surging emotions upon announcing his decision to quit ODI cricket about his team 's ability to handle pressure. " I think we 've had the expectation put on us from the first ball this tournament , being in our home country , as I 'm sure New Zealand have , as well , " he said . " It 'll be about playing with freedom. I think that 's probably the lesson I learned at a very young age that that 's why you go to training every day. That 's why you work so hard at your preparation , so when you walk onto that big stage under pressure , you just go out and play with freedom , " Clarke said . The Australian captain also said that the fact the whole team was at the MCG at an optional training session on Saturday showed the dedication. " I do n't think I have to say too much to be honest. I think the guys are ready to play. Mentally , we are ready for this final. Physically , we 've got another day to recover or try and get what you need to be right for tomorrow , " he said . As always , he said he would wait for the selectors to pick the XI. " We 've got all 15 players to choose from , which is a great feeling , " he said. " After that game against India , we spoke about getting on a plane and flying to Melbourne. It 's about embracing all the great things that come with making a World Cup final. I do n't buy into the favourites or not favourites. New Zealand have been the form team of the competition and they have beaten us once in this tournament. But I 'm confident if we play our best , we can beat them tomorrow. No matter what happens , this team has achieved a lot under pressure , a lot of expectation. To be able to make a World Cup final is very special , and if we can win , that would be the icing on the cake. But the way you do that is by making sure you 're prepared , you 're ready , and skill over emotion , " he said . Clarke said he could not have asked for a better team. " I 've got a wonderful group of talented and gifted players , but more importantly , I 've got a team of 15 guys that have an amazing attitude and want to have success. That 's what drives you every day to get out of bed and try and become better. I hope we can train well today and then go and get that reward we 're after tomorrow. " © Cricbuzz Tags
