Clarke and McCullum , captains in arms Melbourne , Sat , Mar 28 2015 by Jamie Alter Last updated on Saturday , 28 March , 2015 , 05 : 51 AM On the biggest day of their respective leadership roles , Clarke and McCullum will be burning with the desire to outdo each other. ( Pic by G Rajaraman ) © Cricbuzz Here we are. The ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 final , pitting co-hosts Australia and New Zealand at the magnificent MCG , home to Australia under Michael Clarke , who will bow out of ODI cricket on Sunday. Clarke has battled immense physical pain and emotional intensity to make it this far , rehabilitating his fragile back to make Australia 's World Cup squad and rally the team to the summit. Against him is Brendon McCullum , a man whose leadership in the World Cup has moved several New Zealand greats to term him the best captain the country has produced. Expectations were serious of McCullum 's team when the tournament began , on the basis of the success the Test and ODI teams had under him , but with each win - and there have been eight out of eight , a stunning run - these have been elevated . And that , in itself , makes for a superb subplot to Sunday 's final. Clarke , struggling for batting form yet exuberant. McCullum , low-key yet simmering. Clarke is quick with a one-liner , expressive when he speaks. His eyes go wide often , he rubs his cheeks and scratches his chin. McCullum hardly moves when he addresses the media. His elbows lie firm on the table , his hands do not interact. His eyes remain narrow , as if he 's hungover , but the twinkle is unmistakable. There are moments when you think he 's going to laugh , but he just gives a cheeky smile. Clarke is lean , wiry. His jersey is a bit loose. McCullum 's tattooed biceps bulge from under his shirt . He is the little kid from south Dunedin who will lead his country at their first World Cup final. " Yeah , it 's pretty amazing I think - so far the ride we 've been on , and I 've said that time and time again , " said McCullum , on the eve of the game. " But it 's been the greatest time of our lives. It 's been an amazing trip. We dreamed right from the start and to now give ourselves a 50-50 chance in the final is an amazing achievement . " So , we 've done some special things over the last little while. We 've had some tremendous support back home , and also from around the world as well. I think the brand of cricket that we 've played has really touched a lot of people and endeared ourselves to a lot of people who follow this game. We 've got one more big hurdle tomorrow. We 'll give it everything we 've possibly got. Hopefully , if we play well , we 'll be smiling at the end of the day and be able to look back on a fantastic campaign and something which would hopefully invigorate the game and New Zealand. " McCullum and Clarke made their Test debuts in the same year ; the former in March 2004 and the latter in October of that year. A year separated their ODI debuts. They both played their first Twenty20 international together. Both were recognised in their teens as being something special. Clarke more so because he made heads turn in New South Wales , and was tipped to captain Australia one day. McCullum 's amazing talent with the bat had him earmarked for success at the international level , but not so much as a leader because of his perceived cockiness. Clarke was associated with brashness too , mind you . According to McCullum , Sunday 's final will not be about him against Clarke. " I do n't think it 's Michael Clarke versus me. I think it 's Australia versus New Zealand , " he stated. " And I 'm more than happy with the horse that we 've got and the tactics we 're going to employ. It does n't guarantee us success but I think the game we 've got is going to make us hard to beat. Innovation and instinct can only come from a place of hard work as well. We 've got to earn the right to be able to be as aggressive as we want to be , and I guess Australia will be no different. Yeah , I certainly do n't see it as a Michael versus me final. It 's Australia versus New Zealand , and I 'm sure that 's where all the focus will be. " It will be , but the outcome of the match could hinge on how the two captains fare. McCullum has been shifted between two moods throughout the tournament. Confident and understated. If that makes sense. His on-field aggression when setting fields , throwing himself around and when chasing targets has been in contrast to the man who has marshalled his troops during training and who rolls up to speak to the media . Clarke has not scored the runs he and the team would have wanted - he averages 29 with one fifty - but he has been up to the task as captain in his final World Cup. He has rallied in the field , made smooth changes , backed Steven Smith to perform at No 3 and picked the bowlers he felt could deliver success. He took the loss to New Zealand at Eden Park hard , terming it the " kick up the backside " that Australia needed. From that narrow defeat , in which the batting came undone spectacularly , Clarke 's team marched on. Afghanistan were pummelled by 275 runs ; Sri Lanka by 64 runs ; Scotland by seven wickets with 208 balls remaining. In the quarter-final , Pakistan were beaten by six wickets. In the semi-final , defending champions India brushed aside by 95 runs in front of a crowd rooting for the team in blue . It has not been a smooth ride getting to the MCG , with Clarke having to overcome scrutiny over his fitness and form. And now he intends to savour his final ODI as he has each time he 's worn the yellow jersey . " I always dreamt of playing cricket for Australia and for New South Wales. I never dreamed of captaining Australia , and to have this opportunity and privilege has been better than I could have imagined , " he said. " And I 've been very fortunate. I 've played with some amazing players , some of the all-time greats of the game , and I 've learned a lot from those guys , and I hope that I 've been able to pass a lot of that on to the younger generation , as well , to a lot of the players that I play with now. You know , tomorrow will be exactly the same as it 's been every single time I 've walked out onto the field to play cricket for Australia. Extremely special. " On Saturday at the MCG , Clarke and McCullum engaged in a photo opportunity with the World Cup trophy. They smiled , posed , went through the routine they have learned to make look easy. When it was over , they shared a word in each other 's ears. Clarke did not let anyone know what exactly was said , but revealed that the main message was to wish the other all the best for the final . " There was n't much more to it , to be honest , " he said . In that brief moment , there probably was n't. But on the biggest day of their respective leadership roles , Clarke and McCullum will be burning with the desire to outdo each other. The respect is mutual , the fear equally matched. Victory for each man will be the defining moment of their individual leadership careers . © Cricbuzz Tags
