India 's Attitude Right But Result Matter Most for Sunil Gavaskar India 's Attitude Right But Result Matter Most for Sunil Gavaskar Sunil Gavaskar tells NDTV that India 's fight against Australia in their opening encounter of the tri-nation series was heartening. The four-wicket defeat though overshadows the right attitude on the field , he felt . Last updated on Sunday , 18 January , 2015 20 : 57 IST Total Shares MS Dhoni speaks to his players during the ODI match against Australia . © AFP India put up a strong fight against Australia in their first match of the tri-nation ODI series Down Under on Sunday. While India lost by four wickets , captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni appeared happy with the manner in which his team played. For former India opener Sunil Gavaskar though , results come foremost in cricket. ( 1st ODI report | Highlight | Scorecard ) Dhoni said that he did not really think much of the defeat and that the team huddles during the course of the ODI brought out the best in his players. Gavaskar , while highlighting that India 's approach to the match was correct , said that a team must strive for victory on the field. " In a sense , those huddles were right but the results also matter , " Gavaskar told NDTV after the Melbourne match. " You ca n't say the attitude was right ( as ) the results are not showing it. " ( Also read : In defeat , Dhoni shows fighting spirit ) Gavaskar though also said that Sunday 's clash was only the first in the tournament and that there was a lot to look forward to. " Yes , it is a defeat but there are three more matches to go. I agree with Dhoni that the boys showed tremendous fight and that is heartening. " ( Also read : Captain Bailey faces one-match suspension ) Billed as the series which allows India , Australia and England to fine-tune their preparations ahead of the World Cup next month , Gavaskar chose to further highlight the need for wins here. " These four matches - five including the final , are ideal preparations for the World Cup , " he said. " They ( the Indian team ) have to look at different aspects of the game - how they bat first , how they chase , their bowling combinations. The teams would know what their strengths and weaknesses are. " While top-ranked Australia have won both their opening matches , India and England face off on Tuesday . Story first published on : Sunday , 18 January 2015 19 : 52 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
