Ganguly Exclusive : Big MCG wo n't be a factor for New Zealand Melbourne , Sat , Mar 28 2015 by Sourav Ganguly Last updated on Saturday , 28 March , 2015 , 01 : 12 PM Everyone here is saying Australia will win , and the reason they say is because New Zealand have n't played in Australia so far , which I do n't agree with Australia may possess a few more match-winners in their side as compared to New Zealand I can tell you this much : I will be happy if Australia win , but I will be happier if New Zealand win it. © AFP One of the best grounds in the world , the MCG , would be hosting the big final of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 on Sunday , and two trans-tasman teams - Australia and New Zealand - will fight against each other to win the coveted tropy. For Australia , it would be the fifth time if they make it and the first one for New Zealand. So for me calling the game , I would be slightly biased towards New Zealand as I would n't mind a new champion . Having said that , in my mind , I know Australia is the stronger side and ahead of New Zealand. New Zealand have been outstanding throughout the tournament , they have played all their games at home and remained unbeaten while going past the best sides. Their chase in the semi-final was unbelievable and speaks volumes about the character , the way they go about their job - chasing 299 in 43 overs to win a World Cup semi-final is a commendable effort. They went past Australia in their group game earlier by getting them out for 150 and were home despite being nine wickets down ; it was a fabulous cricket match . Everyone here is saying Australia will win , and the reason they say is because New Zealand have n't played in Australia so far , which I do n't agree with. They say the ball swung in New Zealand and it wo n't in Australia - I do n't believe that either. The quality of Tim Southee and Trent Boult is much more than just conditions , and I think if they bowl in the right areas , they will get some swing and movement against Australia at the MCG. Do n't forget though , that if the ball comes back into Aaron Finch and Steven Smith , who has been in outstanding form , they have been in trouble and Boult will look to do exactly that . There 's not much to choose from between the sides as both will go with the same team that won their respective semi-finals. Australia may possess a few more match-winners in their side - the likes of David Warner who desperately needs to get some runs , Finch who played remarkably well against India , Glenn Maxwell and Shane Watson - these are the four power-hitters of Australia who can take the game away from the Kiwis. For New Zealand , Brendon McCullum and Corey Anderson are the batsmen who can clear any ground in the world . But the game will not just be about the power-hitters but the likes of Steven Smith , who got a fabulous hundred in the semi-final. The game will be about Michael Clarke , about Ross Taylor and Grant Elliott , who played an exceptional knock against South Africa . It is Clarke 's last one-day game in an effort to extend his Test career , and I think it 's the right decision as his body has n't held up to the rigours of constant international cricket. Another thought behind his retirement was what Clarke said in the press conference ahead of the final , that he would want the new captain to have four years behind him before the next World Cup , which is a mature statement and in the Australian way. Allan Border , who is often called the Godfather of modern Australian cricket , could n't manage to win the World Cup at home , and Clarke has the opportunity to become only the second captain after MS Dhoni to win a World Cup at home . Even though deep within I know that Australia start as favourites , they are a good team backed by a 90,000-strong MCG ground backing their team. Brendon McCullum has urged New Zealand fans to chime in and they are doing their bit to salvage whatever tickets that remain , but my question remains , can New Zealand win it ? I can tell you this much : I will be happy if Australia win , but I will be happier if New Zealand win it . © Cricbuzz Tags
