Australia claim fifth World Cup crown with authoritative win Melbourne , Sun , Mar 29 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Sunday , 29 March , 2015 , 11 : 57 AM Clarke bid farewell to ODI cricket with an attractive fifty. © AFP There was authority and not arrogance of the big brother , confidence of a champion team and not complacency , simplicity and not savagery of some of their predecessors as Australia regained the Cricket World Cup 2015 with a dominant performance that fetched them a seven-wicket victory over New Zealand in the final on Sunday . Australia stepped on the park as a bunch determined to win it for the nation that loves the team , for each of themselves , for their retiring captain Michael Clarke - and perhaps one of their erstwhile mates , Phil Hughes , sadly a victim of a bouncer that hit him below the skull earlier this summer . From the moment Mitchell Starc bowled a tentative , rather than aggressive , Brendon McCullum in the opening over at the spectacularly full Melbourne Cricket Ground , Australia made every post a winning one , notwithstanding a battling repair job by Ross Taylor and Grant Elliott and Aaron Finch 's early fall during the chase of New Zealand 's total of 183 . Starc and his fellow-left arm pacemen , Mitchell Johnson and James Faulkner claimed eight of the 10 New Zealand wickets , creating pressure on the batsmen and causing them to make mistakes. There was no hint of frustration or panic when Taylor 's solidity combined with the enterprise of Elliott in a century stand . Clarke was able to leave an impression with his captaincy - bringing on Glenn Maxwell 's offspin against Martin Guptill , placing himself at slip to catch Luke Ronchi after getting Starc back into the attack , encouraging Faulkner to mix his pace well and making a characteristic half-century at faster than run-a-ball pace. All bore his stamp . Of course , New Zealand will have to deal with the disappointment of having come so close but being unable to find the cherry to place on the cake. They were not overcome by stage fright but outclassed. If it is of any consolation , they were not the only batting line-up that crumbled to the Australian attack. Only three nights ago , Australia had stifled a strong unit from India . Then again , there can be no consolation for the team being unable to build a total of substance despite a 111-run stand for the fourth-wicket between Taylor and Elliott. Indeed , there can be no consolation for their three power hitters , McCullum , Corey Anderson and Ronchi , making no contribution at all . New Zealand needed their top guns to claim wickets regularly. Finch 's fall in the second over offered a glimmer of hope. McCullum pressed on with attacking fields but David Warner 's aggression and Steven Smith 's resolve , backed by Clarke 's desire to make his final ODI appearance a memorable one , were too much for the Black Caps to handle on Sunday night . Clarke was bowled when Australia were nine runs away from victory. The MCG was up on its feet as he retired to the pavilion for the very last time in golden yellow uniform that he has so proudly worn. But as Clarke himself will be quick to point out , it was not about him on Sunday. It was about his Australian team , authoritative but not arrogant. Simple and confident . As Smith - captain in waiting - hit the winning runs , the whole of the Australian squad raced on the field. Before their mates got to them , Smith was able to leap on to the big frame of Shane Watson , the man he had displaced at No. 3. As they were enveloped by their team-mates , the New Zealanders hugged in pairs , beaten at the end of a fascinating campaign . Brief scores : New Zealand 183 all out in 45 overs ( Elliott 83 , Taylor 40 ; Faulkner 3/36 , Johnson 3/30 ) lose to Australia 186/3 ( Clarke 74 , Smith 56 * ; Henry 2/46 ) in 33.1 overs by seven wickets © Cricbuzz Tags
