Stats : Australia 's high five , batsmen rule in World Cup Melbourne , Sun , Mar 29 2015 by Siddharth Vishwanathan Last updated on Sunday , 29 March , 2015 , 03 : 55 PM Australia have won the World Cup for the fifth time . Mitchell Starc picked up 22 wickets and was named as the Player of the Series . This was New Zealand 's maiden appearance in the World Cup final . Australia have won the World Cup for the fifth time. © Getty After six weeks , the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup comes to an end and Australia are the champions for the fifth time. This tournament has seen plenty of records in both batting and bowling. Here is a look at the statistics from the knockout stages of the tournament. The stats start from the first quarter-final between South and Sri Lanka in Sydney and ends with the final between Australia and New Zealand at the MCG . - Kumar Sangakkara went past 500 runs in a World Cup edition for the second time. He is only the second player after Sachin Tendulkar to go past 500 runs two times in World Cups . - Tharindu Kaushal became only the second player in World Cup history to make a debut in a World Cup knock-out match. The first one was England 's Wayne Larkins in the semi-final against New Zealand in Old Trafford during the 1979 World Cup . - JP Duminy became the first South African bowler to take a hat-trick in the World Cup. He is the second South Africa bowler after Charl Langeveldt in 2005 to take a hat-trick. He is the second spinner after Saqlain Mushtaq in 1999 to take a hat-trick in World Cups . - Sri Lanka 's total of 133 all-out is their fourth-lowest total in World Cups. Their lowest total is 109 against India in Johannesburg in 2003 . - South Africa won the match with 192 balls remaining. This is the highest margin of victory in terms of balls to spare by any team in the knock-outs. This is also the shortest World Cup knock-out match ever . - The South Africa - Sri Lanka clash lasted only 55.2 overs. It is the shortest game in a knockout encounter in the history of the World Cup . - MS Dhoni registered his 100th ODI victory as captain during India 's clash against Bangladesh in Melbourne. He is only the third ODI skipper after Ricky Ponting and Allan Border to notch up 100 victories . - India 's winning streak extended to 11 matches in World Cups but it was halted by Australia when they lost in the semi-final in Sydney. This is the second-best winning streak in World Cups , the first been Australia 's 34-match winning streak ( 1999 to 2011 ) - Martin Guptill became the second New Zealand player to score a century in a World Cup knockout match. The first one was Chris Harris ' 130 in the quarter-final against Australia in Chennai in 1996. He is the only New Zealand player to score consecutive centuries in World Cups . - The 2015 edition of the World Cup witnessed38 centuries , the most ever in a single edition of the tournament . - Guptill is also the only New Zealand batsman to score back-to-back ODI tons twice in ODIs. He had earlier achieved this feat in an ODI series against England in 2013 . - Martin Guptill became the first New Zealand player and fifth overall to score a double century in ODIs. His knock of 237 is the second-highest score in ODIs while it is the highest score in World Cups . - New Zealand have won nine consecutive matches at home , which is their best winning streak at home . - A total of 31 sixes were hit in the game between New Zealand and West Indies in Wellington. This is the most number of sixes hit in a World Cup match. The overall record is 38 sixes , scored during the match between India and Australia in Bangalore in 2013 . - New Zealand 's total of 393/6 is their highest in World Cups. Their previous highest was 363/5 against Canada in St Lucia during the 2007 World Cup . - Martin Guptill hit 24 boundaries and 11 sixes in his knock of 237. This is the most number of fours hit by a New Zealand batsman in an innings while his tally of 11 sixes is the second-highest in an innings , the most being Corey Anderson 's 14 sixes against West Indies in Queenstown in January 2014 . - Batting against the West Indies is now becoming a haven for batsmen. In the past one year , they have had the fastest and second fastest hundred in ODIs being scored against them. AB de Villiers recently pummelled the fastest 150 in Sydney while Guptill became the second batsman to score a double ton against West Indies in ODIs , the first being Virender Sehwag ( 219 ) . - New Zealand chased down 298 in the semi-final against South Africa in Auckland. This is the highest successful chase in the knockouts of a World Cup . - Trent Boult picked up 22 wickets in the 2015 World Cup. This is the most number of wickets taken by a New Zealand bowler in a single edition of the tournament , going past Geoff Allott 's mark of 20 wickets in the 1999 World Cup . - Australia scored 328 in the semi-final against India in Sydney. This is the first time that a team scored 300-plus in a semi-final of the World Cup . - Steven Smith scored a century in the match against India. He became the first Australian batsman to score a century in the semi-finals of the World Cup . - Australia defeated India by 95 runs in the semi-final in Sydney. This is the highest victory margin by a team in any semi-final in World Cups . - Martin Guptill scored 547 runs in the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup and overtook Sangakkara as the leading run-scorer. This is the highest number of runs scored in an edition by a New Zealand batsman and he is the only New Zealand batsman to go past 500 runs in an edition . - Steven Smith scored a fifty in the quarter-final , a hundred in the semi-final and a fifty in the final. He is the only player to achieve this feat . - Australia have won the World Cup for the fifth time. This is the most by any nation in cricket. They are also the only country to win the World Cup in five different continents. India and West Indies are the other teams to have won the World Cup more than once . © Cricbuzz Tags
