Emotional Australia dedicate World Cup victory to Phil Hughes Melbourne , Sun , Mar 29 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Sunday , 29 March , 2015 , 02 : 38 PM Even as the champagne fizzed high and long at the Melbourne Cricket Ground , a sixteenth member of the Australian side was not forgotten by his victorious team-mates Clarke , who will continue to play Test cricket , vowed to keep wearing the armband in honour of his close friend Australia captain Michael Clarke dedicated the World Cup triumph to Phillip Hughes. © Getty Australia 's newest World Cup winning captain Michael Clarke caused more than a few moist eyes at the Melbourne Cricket Ground with poignant references to his 'little brother ' , the late Phil Hughes first with TV presenter Mark Nicholas and then at the media interaction . " It 's been a really tough few months and everyone would say we played this World Cup with 16 players. Tonight is dedicated to our little brother. Hughesy used to party as well as any of them , " Clarke told Nicholas when he was asked about the black armband that he wore with the words PH written on it . Before he could say much more , the magnificent crowd at the grand stadium applauded the announcement that the World Cup win was dedicated to Hughes , with Clarke 's team-mates waiting on the podium nodding their heads or clapping in approval . " Hughesy is thought about and spoken about on a daily basis. I think probably the last couple of months for me personally , it 's probably been harder than when he first passed away. I 've been in regular contact with his sister and his family. And I know they would have been watching tonight , " Clarke told reporters , more than two hours after the victory was sealed . " That 's what makes it so special , that we are still thinking about him. We are still talking about him and we always will. I certainly wo n't play a Test match without his Test number on my hat and I 'll wear this black armband for the rest of my career. We 've spoken about it as a team. We believe we played this World Cup with 16 players in our squad and that will continue for the rest of my career for sure. " Clarke also revealed that after New Zealand were bowled out for 183 , six or seven players went to the nets for a hit in the lead up to their batting innings just to make sure they were as well prepared as they could be and be ready to chase those runs. " It shows the discipline and the dedication to wanting the help the team have success , " he said . Clearly , each Australian player wanted to win the World Cup for Hughes. Like Clarke , Mitchell Starc was another who wore a black armband in memory of the late opening batsman. " I think Pup ( Clarke ) and I have worn it every day of training and playing since the event. He 'll never be forgotten and he 's definitely part of this World Cup squad. It 's just something that I wanted to do , " he said . © Cricbuzz
