Starc , Faulkner win key moments and massive rewards Sun , Mar 29 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Sunday , 29 March , 2015 , 02 : 20 PM For his 3/36 James Faulkner bagged the Man-of-the-Match award in the final , while Mitchell Starc was adjudged the man of the series. © AFP There were many defining moments in the ICC Cricket World Cup final at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on Sunday , but the top three featured Australian left-arm pace bowlers , Mitchell Starc scripting magic within minutes of the start of the game and James Faulkner setting New Zealand back with a double-strike in the first over of batting Power Play . Not surprisingly , Faulkner was named man of the match for his haul of three for 36 and the spindly Starc walked away with the man of the series trophy for his 22 wickets. In many ways , these three freeze-frames represented the foundation of Australia 's well-designed and superbly executed campaign that led them to the crown one more time , this time in the face of the pressure of expectations of the home audiences . Skipper Michael Clarke was quick to acknowledge that exceptional bowling was key to the World Cup. " I think that 's no coincidence why we sit here World Cup winners tonight. I think our bowlers have won us the World Cup. I think our batters have stood up and grabbed their opportunities but our bowling performances in every single game has been exceptional , probably none better than today , he said . Let us revisit the three moments. Starc struck pay dirt with just his fifth delivery , rattling New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum 's wicket. He generated late swing and found the gap between a tentative blade and pads. It made up for his having missed the stumps with his first yorker to the opener a couple of deliveries earlier . " After that game in New Zealand , we knew we had to assess him as he went because he 's very unpredictable , " Starc said of McCullum. " Personally , it was a bit of a planning game with Craig McDermott about just bowling with pace and yorker to him first up. I 'm not sure how that first one missed but lucky the third one hit. There 's a lot of luck involved but it 's just nice to see that plan come off. " New Zealand were rallying though a century stand between Ross Taylor and Grant Elliott and when batting Power Play started , were nicely poised to ensure a competitive total. It was then that Clarke called upon Faulkner rather than any of his three frontline fast bowlers , Starc or Mitchell Johnson or Josh Hazlewood . Faulkner turned up with his trademark slower delivery , slightly wide of the off-stump. Taylor was drawn to it and edged a sharp catch to wicket-keeper Brad Haddin. He welcomed the big-hitting Corey Anderson to the crease with a length ball and followed it up with a pacy yorker to bowl him all ends up . " New Zealand looked like they were going to get away from us. I thought Ross Taylor and Grant Elliot had an exceptional partnership considering what happened at the start , to pull things back for them , but at the end of the day , to bowl them out for 183 was fantastic , " he said , having sparked the collapse . " To watch Jimmy take three in the semi , in the final , he bowled fantastic , but I think the whole bowling unit itself was awesome , " Starc said. " We 've worked really hard at our bowling not only in the World Cup but leading up to it , and to see it come off , I think every bowler who 's bowled in the tournament , not just the guys who played the final , it 's been fantastic. " There can be no doubt that Starc and Faulkner , whose return from injury was carefully monitored and ensured that the team would find the right balance , were well supported by Johnson ( 15 wickets ) and Hazlewood ( 7 wickets in five games ) . " I think we 've all complemented one other. We 've got guys who do things differently in the 15 , got guys who can swing it , guys who can bowl -- a few guys who can bowl in the 150s. Jimmy comes in and uses variations better than most people , " Starc said. " We 've covered all bases with our bowling attack , and to see it come to fruition tonight , to restrict New Zealand , who have been more or less setting the benchmark from the start , to 180 , was just fantastic. " Above all , they were fortunate to be led by a captain who placed great emphasis on bowling sides out. Clarke countered the rule changes two new balls , restrictions on field placing by looking for wickets all the time , at the start , in the middle overs , in batting Power Play and in the death . © Cricbuzz Tags
