New Zealand have reasons to smile despite loss New Delhi , Sun , Mar 29 2015 by Siddharth Vishwanathan Last updated on Monday , 30 March , 2015 , 03 : 27 AM New Zealand were soundly thrashed in the final but their journey in the World Cup has been sensational New Zealand 's fans will appreciate the achievement of their team through this six-week period The problem with good times is that it comes to an end. But , one must also realise that it is never too soon for good times to reappear. © AFP The mind is blank and numbed by defeat. All expectations blown away by a meek performance. In one stroke , dreams have come crashing down and there is a sense of emptiness. When dreams turn into nightmares , it leaves you confused. Penning these thoughts in the aftermath of a defeat in a final of a major tournament takes some doing . Here was New Zealand. A team which defined underachievement and was always the perennial 'Dark Horse ' in every major tournament. In the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup , they played proactive and aggressive cricket. They were pushing the boundaries of impossible. They were dreaming big . The tagline in this World Cup was 'Greatness is Contagious ' and New Zealand were living up to the tagline admirably. They were on the cusp of greatness but on the big day , in front of a record MCG crowd of over 93000 , it proved to be a bridge too far. Their trans-Tasman rivals , Australia , gave a lesson on how to play cricket on the big stage and they were truly overwhelmed. All the hype , all the expectations have gone up in smoke. New Zealand 's fans are gutted , but they must remember that it has been a fabulous journey . The fans must remember that the team has achieved plenty of amazing things in these six weeks. Right from the start on February 14 till the final on March 29 , New Zealand dazzled the world with both bat and ball. With admirable camaraderie and gentlemanly off-field behaviour , the team won many hearts in the cricketing world. The success was built on the very first day of the tournament and it was a culmination of a winning habit that has been established for the past two seasons . In their opening encounter , they finally got the better of Sri Lanka in a World Cup after 23 years of pain. The blueprint of their success was established on that cold , overcast morning at Hagley Oval. The skipper , Brendon McCullum , would provide belligerence , Kane Williamson and Ross Taylor would provide stability in the middle and Corey Anderson would provide the finishing touches. Tim Southee and Trent Boult , the best new-ball pair in the world , were the designated wicket-takers and they would be supported by the other bowlers. All 11 players in the team had designed roles . After wins over Sri Lanka and Scotland , the team performed in a way that gave the cricket fans ample reasons to love them. Against England in Wellington , Southee blew out England 's candles by picking up 7 for 33 , the best haul by a New Zealand bowler in ODIs. McCullum proceeded to play a knock that redefined brutality and notched up the fastest fifty in World Cups. The dismantling of England showed that New Zealand were going to play cricket with clinical brutality , a style more associated with their rivals across the Tasman . In the high-voltage clash against Australia in Auckland , there were so many twists. No team held the initiative for long periods. Trent Boult 's 5 for 27 was almost negated by Mitchell Starc 's 6 for 28 but it took a calm , unbeaten 45 from Williamson to make the capacity crowd at Eden Park delirious with joy. If there is a moment to be cherished , it is the moment when Williamson pumped his fist when he hit the six off Pat Cummins with thousands cheering in the backdrop . New Zealand went undefeated in the league stages and it felt like this could be their World Cup. It felt like something special was on the cards. Martin Guptill put on a grand show in the quarter-final when he blasted 237 , the highest score in a World Cup and the second-highest in ODI history. West Indies managed just 13 runs more than Guptill 's solo effort. New Zealand were looking like the total package. The mood of the nation was pulsating. For the first time , a rugby-mad nation was talking mainly about cricket. The papers in New Zealand were writing and analysing cricket , with rugby consigned to the sidelines. Finally , after so many years , cricket had forced rugby to take a back seat . Then came the semi-final. Oh yes ! That stage where they have been hurt in the past. It was against South Africa. Underachiever v underachiever. Who would crack ? Who would book their ticket to the MCG for the final ? Who would choke ? So many questions were asked before the match and 85 overs later , they were still left unanswered. In the final over , South African-born Grant Elliott became the toast of New Zealand when he lofted Dale Steyn into the stands at long-on to seal one of New Zealand 's greatest wins. The hoodoo was broken. The heartbreak of 1992 , the one-sided contest of 1999 and the anger of 2007 and 2011 were all eliminated with that one stroke. The capacity crowd of 41,000 at Eden Park will never forget March 24 , 2015 . Heading into the MCG , there were many doubts. How could New Zealand cope with playing in a big Australian ground ? The # MCGsobig started to trend and the Australian public , along with some former cricket players , indulged in a lot of banter. Could New Zealand overcome the Big Brother syndrome ? If # MCGsobig was the main trend before the match , New Zealand came up with # BacktheBlackCaps. The All Blacks , New Zealand 's dominant rugby team , gave their best wishes to the Black Caps. Martin Crowe , New Zealand 's greatest batsman , gave a poignant tribute to the New Zealand team in his column about this being the last match in his life as he battles cancer . For the first part , New Zealand were putting up a fight with Elliott and Taylor steadying the ship. However , they lost seven wickets for 33 runs to be bundled out for 183. It seemed tragic that 7 for 33 , a figure that was celebrated for Southee 's achievement , would now be associated with a collapse on the big stage. Australia played like the clinical champions which had won four World Cups and they sealed their fifth at home . " We are having the best time of our lives and we are enjoying the experience. " These quotes by McCullum have been the rallying call for New Zealand cricket supporters ever since the start of the tournament. Indeed , every match featured something special for New Zealand. McCullum 's blitz against England and South Africa , Boult and Southee 's incisive swing and seam bowling , Guptill 's massive knock , Elliott 's innings and gesture against South Africa and New Zealand 's maiden entry into the final . The problem with good times is that it comes to an end. But , one must also realise that it is never too soon for good times to reappear. Amidst the doom and gloom of the loss , New Zealand 's fans will appreciate the achievement of their team through this six-week period . © Cricbuzz
