Brendon McCullum named captain , no Indian in ICC team of the World Cup Mon , Mar 30 2015 Last updated on Monday , 30 March , 2015 , 05 : 12 AM The ICC team of the tournament had four more New Zealand players in addition to McCullum , while there were three members from the victorious Australian side Amongst the losing semi-finalists , there were two South Africans in the Team of the World Cup while not a single Indian featured in the list Brendon McCullum and Daniel Vettori were among the five New Zealand players present in the ICC team of the tournament . New Zealand skipper Brendon McCullum was named captain of the Team of the Tournament announced by the International Cricket Council. The team has four more New Zealand players in addition to McCullum , while there were three members from the Australia team. New Zealand reached the final of the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup for the first time but lost heavily to Australia , who won the tournament for the fifth time . There were two South Africans in the Team of the World Cup while not a single Indian featured in the list. Sri Lanka 's Kumar Sangakkara and Zimbabwe 's Brendan Taylor ( 12th man ) were the only two players outside of the teams that made it to the final-four round . " The team was chosen by a select group of experts who were given the task of picking a balanced side on the basis of performances in the tournament. Statistics were used but were not the sole basis for selections , " stated an ICC media release . " The selection panel that chose the player of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 consisted of : Geoff Allardice ( ICC General Manager Cricket ) , Andrew Alderson ( Journalist , New Zealand Herald ) , Harsha Bhogle ( Broadcaster ) , Richard Kettleborough ( Member of Emirates Elite Panel of ICC Umpires and ICC Umpire of the Year 2014 ) , Chloe Saltau ( Journalist , The Age ) , Michael Vaughan ( Former England captain and broadcaster ) , " said the release . Allardice , who was the chairman of the panel that selected the team , said : " The panel had an extremely difficult choice of selecting a 12-member squad at the back of an outstanding tournament , highlighted by some eye-catching individual performances including two double-centuries , 38 centuries , two hat-tricks and 28 four-wicket hauls . " There were a number of other players that were discussed as possible selections in the team. These included batsmen Mahmudullah ( Bangladesh ) and Shaiman Anwar ( UAE ) , fast bowlers Umesh Yadav , Mohammed Shami ( both India ) , Wahab Riaz ( Pakistan ) and spinners Imran Tahir ( South Africa ) and R Ashwin ( India ) . " But there were so many brilliant individual performances during the tournament that it was not possible to fit them into the team. The panel eventually came up with this side , which , in their view , was the most balanced outfit that is capable of beating any side on any given day. " Team of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 in batting order : Brendon McCullum ( New Zealand ( captain ) , Martin Guptill ( New Zealand ) , Kumar Sangakkara ( Sri Lanka ) ( wicketkeeper ) , Steven Smith ( Australia ) , AB de Villiers ( South Africa ) , Glenn Maxwell ( Australia ) , Corey Anderson ( New Zealand ) , Daniel Vettori ( New Zealand ) , Mitchell Starc ( Australia ) , Trent Boult ( New Zealand ) , Morne Morkel ( South Africa ) , Brendan Taylor ( Zimbabwe ) ( 12th man ) © Cricbuzz
