Sachin : A Lens Story - A Photo Tribute to Tendulkar Sachin : A Lens Story - A Photo Tribute to Tendulkar A photo exhibition in honour of Sachin Tendulkar is being organised as part of the 'Run Kerala Run ' , a marathon to be held across the state on January 20 to create awareness about the 35th National Games which the state hosts . Last updated on Monday , 19 January , 2015 09 : 23 IST Total Shares File photo of Sachin Tendulkar © PTI Thiruvananthapuram : Some of the most enduring moments of cricket maestro Sachin Tendulkar 's career and life over a decade will be showcased in a five-day photo exhibition here from January 20 . Christened " Sachin : A Lens Story " , the show will feature as many as 60 photographs capturing the happy , emotional and pride moments of the sporting legend , especially regarding Team India 's 2011 World Cup victory and his retirement . The exhibition is being organised as part of the 'Run Kerala Run ' , a marathon to be held across the state on January 20 to create awareness about the 35th National Games which the state hosts . Tendulkar , the Goodwill Ambassador of the Games , is expected to participate in the marathon here and join the exhibition after that . Clicked by RS Gopan , the chief news photographer of Malayala Manorama Daily , the photos will be displayed in a special thematic gallery at the Central Stadium here . A self-confessed Tendulkar fan , Gopan has so far captured thousands of frames of the iconic player in his 14-years long career as a press photographer . Gopan said he had been following the batting maestro for the past several years and the show is the outcome of his decade-long effort . " The 60 pictures , to be exhibited , were handpicked from over thousands of Sachin photographs which I took. It was a bit herculean task. But , I focused on the photos related to Team India 's 2011 World Cup victory and Sachin 's retirement , " he told PTI . The special gallery , where the four-feet-long pictures are to be displayed , is designed based on the theme of a cricket pitch . The lensman said though it is set as a temporary gallery now , discussion were on to make it as a permanent arrangement with the support of Kerala Cricket Association ( KCA ) . " I am planning to hold similar shows in all district headquarters with the support of KCA. Taking the exhibition to the national level is also another dream , " he said . Gopan has been a recipient of several national and international recognitions , including Photography Excellence Award of the Mumbai Press Club , Lourdian Sports Photography Award and so on . Story first published on : Monday , 19 January 2015 08 : 19 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
