Daniel Vettori retires from international cricket Auckland , Tue , Mar 31 2015 Last updated on Tuesday , 31 March , 2015 , 04 : 37 AM Vettori , who became the first bowler from New Zealand to take 300 wickets or more in ODIs , finished with a total 305 wickets in 295 matches The left-arm spinner also ended his Test career as the second highest wicket-taker for New Zealand , signing off with 262 wickets in 113 Tests Daniel Vettori announced his retirement from international cricket. © Getty New Zealand left-arm spinner Daniel Vettori has announced his retirement from all forms of international cricket , confirming that the ICC World Cup 2015 final against Australia , which New Zealand lost , was his final international appearance . " It was my last game for New Zealand so it was a lovely way to finish , " said Vettori , upon arrival in Auckland. " To be able to finish in the final , albeit without a win , I 'm just very grateful for the amount of support I had particularly from Brendon [ McCullum ] and Mike [ Hesson ] . To be able to get back from a number of injuries and to be here and to be part of it ... is something I 'll always treasure. " Kane Williamson said New Zealand will miss the services of a " world class " bowler like Daniel Vettori. " Dan is obviously world class. There 's not a better spinner in the short forms of the game. Just his experience in the group - he 's such a leader - and to play for such along time and with so many different players is an amazing thing. He 's had a fantastic career. He 's a great bloke and he 'll certainly be missed. " Daniel Vettori had a successful World Cup as he picked up 15 wickets to end up as the joint eight-highest wicket-taker of the tournament. Along with Imran Tahir , Vettori also picked up most wickets as a spinner in the 2015 event . Vettori , who also became the first bowler from New Zealand to take 300 wickets or more in ODIs during the World Cup , finished with a total 305 wickets in 295 matches. The left-arm spinner also ended his Test career as the second highest wicket-taker for New Zealand , signing off with 262 wickets in 113 Tests . Vettori will leave for India on Thursday to be part of the Indian Premier League competition as coach of Royal Challengers Bangalore. There are also talks that Vettori could take up a coaching role with the Brisbane Heat team in the Big Bash League . © Cricbuzz
