David Warner vs Rohit Sharma : Fisticuffs Next ? It 's Not Ice-Hockey , Says Joe Root David Warner vs Rohit Sharma : Fisticuffs Next ? It 's Not Ice-Hockey , Says Joe Root David Warner has been fined by the International Cricket Council after an on-field dispute with India batsman Rohit Sharma during Sunday 's one-day international in Melbourne . Last updated on Monday , 19 January , 2015 15 : 18 IST Total Shares Root ( at slip ) looks on as Warner plays a shot at SCG . © AP England batsman Joe Root agrees with Martin Crowe 's suggestion that a soccer-like card system can be introduced to control bad behaviour in international cricket. The idea of cards has come from the latest case of frayed tempers involving Australian batsman David Warner and India 's Rohit Sharma. ( Warner Defends 'Speak English ' Sledge to Rohit ) Warner has been fined by the International Cricket Council after an on-field dispute with during Sunday 's one-day international in Melbourne . The incident was triggered when India took a single off an overthrow. Warner thought the ball had deflected off Sharma and the Indians should not have taken the run , in accordance with cricketing convention . Sharma disputed Warner 's claims and television replays later showed he was right and the Indians were entitled to take the run. Warner later admitted he was wrong about the call but defended his actions and telling Sharma to " speak English " . ( In Defeat Dhoni Shows Fighting Spirit ) " When I went over to say something to him , he sort of said something in their language and I said ; 'speak English ' because , if you 're going to say something , understand that theoretically I can not speak Hindi , " Warner told Sky Sports Radio on Monday . " I did the polite thing and asked him to speak English , therefore he did and I ca n't repeat what he said. " Australia and India are bitter rivals on the cricket field and their matches have often been tarnished by altercations. During their recent Test series , four players were fined for bad behaviour . Root is no stranger to Warner 's temper. The England batsman was on the receiving end of Warner 's fist ahead of the 2013 Ashes. But Root disagrees with Crowe that it is only a matter of time before someone throws a punch on the field . " Let 's demand that if any cricketer gets two yellow cards during a six-month period then they are out for six months following , " Crowe wrote in his ESPNCricinfo. " It 's the only way to kill a hornet 's nest and get this game back in a groove of respect. " While verbal battles have come to roost , Root does n't see players beating each other up on the field. ( Also Read : De Villiers Slams Fastest Ton ) " Someone would have to be in a really bad place to do that , " Root said. " There have been a few things that have happened over the last six months and that is not good for the game. But I ca n't really see it going that far to lead to a punch-up … it 's not ice hockey. " The ICC has pledged to crack down on player misconduct with the sport 's showcase World Cup in Australia and New Zealand starting next month . India are the defending champions while Australia are chasing a fifth title and both teams are currently warming up for the tournament in a three-team series also involving England . India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni played down the latest incident , saying his team paid no attention to Warner 's outburst. " He ( Sharma ) did n't react inside the dressing room so I think he was fine. I did n't even bother to ask what really happened , " Dhoni said. " It was an argument between two grown men. I hope it was sorted out in the middle. " On Tuesday , England and India will be out to recover from opening losses to Australia in the triangular one-day series . ( With agency inputs ) Story first published on : Monday , 19 January 2015 13 : 50 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
