Mustafa Kamal quits as ICC President Wed , Apr 01 2015 Last updated on Wednesday , 01 April , 2015 , 01 : 47 PM © Agencies Mustafa Kamal of Bangladesh on Wednesday resigned from the post of ICC president over Cricket World Cup trophy presentation snub. Kamal announced his resignation in a brief talk with the media in Dhaka. He also questioned India 's victory against Bangladesh in the quarterfinal . Kamal was also critical of the role of ICC chairman N Srinivasan and India in the International Cricket Council . Earlier , Kamal had made a stinging criticism about " umpiring bias " during Bangladesh 's quarterfinal loss to India in the World Cup. In that match , India 's Rohit Sharma was not given out to a Rubel Hossain delivery which apparently looked a " touch and go " decision. The simmering row within the ICC took an ugly turn on Monday with Kamal threatening to expose " mischievous " designs of some people who had denied him the " constitutional right " to hand over the World Cup trophy . The World Cup trophy was handed over to Australian captain Michael Clarke by chairman Srinivasan after the final , but Kamal claimed that the ICC 's amendment of its rules in January 2015 mandated the president to give away trophies at global competitions . " I was supposed to give the trophy. It is my constitutional right. But very unfortunately , I was n't allowed to do so. My rights were dishonoured. After I go back home , I will let the whole world know what 's happening in ICC. I will let the whole world know about those guys who are doing these mischievous things. I do n't know why I was not allowed to present the trophy , " he said . " These type of people should be away from cricket , these kind of people are polluting the game. Otherwise cricket will be spoilt. It is my earnest request to the ICC to revisit these things and people should research why I have resigned , " he added. " I was not allowed to hand over the trophy. I could n't sleep the night before because , I represent my country. My right was snatched away , " he said . According to clause 3.3 ( B ) : " With effect from the 2014 Conference Close Date , the President shall act solely as chairman at Conference and Special Meetings and be responsible for presenting trophies at global competitions and cricket events held under the aegis of the Council. For the avoidance of doubt , with effect from the 2014 Conference Close Date , the president will no longer act as chairman of the Executive Board or as chairman of any Committee or Sub-Committee. " The ICC president is , however , the ceremonial head while executive powers lie with the chairman. However , till 1996 , the World Cup has been handed by various people and not necessarily the head of ICC.The ICC Board will now consider the vacant position of the ICC President at its forthcoming meeting in Dubai on 15 and 16 April . © Cricbuzz
