Delhi Daredevils name Alfonso Thomas bowling coach Thu , Apr 02 2015 Last updated on Thursday , 02 April , 2015 , 10 : 24 AM Alfonso Thomas is to oversee the development of Delhi Daredevils ' fast bowlers. © Getty Former South Africa pacer Alfonso Thomas has been hired by Delhi Daredevils to oversee the development of their fast bowlers ahead of the eighth edition of the Indian Premier League . The 38-year-old , who featured in one T20I for the Proteas in 2007 and played for the now-defunct Pune Warriors India in 2011 and 2012 , is excited to have been entrusted with the responsibility . " I have enjoyed my time as a player in the IPL. It is therefore very special for me to be working with Delhi Daredevils squad. When the call came through from Gary , I jumped at the opportunity. I am looking forward to sharing all that I have learnt. The squad has a number of experienced bowlers like Zaheer Khan and Albie Morkel , along side promising talents like Mohammed Shami , Nathan Coulter-Nile and Gurinder Sandhu. It is an exciting opportunity for me to work with this group , " Thomas said in a media release sent by Delhi Daredevils . Thomas is still active as a player and has a reputation as one of the best pacers in the shortest format of the game. " I have learnt from my experience across the world that bowling in the T20 format maybe tough , but if you do the basics well you can earn success. This is my first major opportunity to share experience as a coach. I have played in the tournament before so it will help us draw up plans accordingly. I have played with most of the guys so settling in with the squad will be fairly easy. I will do all that I can to help Gary and the boys , " Thomas , who has played 214 T20s across the world , said . Daredevils head coach Gary Kirsten believes Alfonso 's appointment will stand the franchise in good stead. " We are delighted to secure the services of Alfonso. His knowledge of bowling in T20 cricket is excellent. We are hopeful that he will share his experience and expertise with our group of young and experienced bowlers. We welcome him wholeheartedly to the group as we begin the journey for this season , " the former India coach said . The Daredevils play their opening match against Chennai Super Kings at the MA Chidambaram Stadium on April 9 . © Cricbuzz
