Duminy : DD 's chance to make big statement in IPL 2015 New Delhi , Fri , Apr 03 2015 by G Rajaraman Last updated on Friday , 03 April , 2015 , 01 : 41 PM Duminy promised to rectify the areas of weaknesses from last season in order to compete against the more settled combinations . Delhi Daredevils captain JP Duminy said he is not concerned about players being burnt out because of the just-concluded World Cup. ( Pic : G Rajaraman ) © Cricbuzz Delhi Daredevils ' new captain JP Duminy has said his team has players of calibre and would make a big statement in Indian Premier League 2015 , promising to rectify the areas of weaknesses from last season in order to compete against the more settled combinations in the tournament . " Obviously we were very bad in a lot of areas last season. Last season was n't the season we wanted. We got only four points. This season we want to a rectify that. I am excited by the calibre of players we have season. A lot of teams are quite settled and structured. But it is exciting to think that new team can bring in new energy , " Duminy told reporters after a practice match at the Air Force Ground in Palam on Friday . " I think there is a lot of learning from last season. We could have done a lot of things differently. There are a few guys from IPL 2014 and a lot of new faces this time. We are identifying the senior players. It will be crucial for them to partner up alongside me and make sure we keep that culture. Obviously , it 's a lot of hard work. [ It 's a ] big season for us and a big statement to make , " he said . Delhi Daredevils players Kedar Jadhav and Amit Mishra have a chat during a practice game at the Air Force Ground in Palam , New Delhi. ( Pic : G Rajaraman ) © Cricbuzz Duminy admitted that the team would have to figure out the combination. " As the tournament goes on , we are going to understand what works for us and all , and not. That 's a disadvantage for us compared to most teams as they are settled , but it 's going to be important for us to learn quickly this season , " he said. " We are playing warm-up games to understand what works and what does n't , who are guys for different positions , strategies , different phases of the game . " A lot of these guys have been playing a lot of cricket. I do n't think anyone is more fit than the other. The Indian players are in really good nick and it 's all about what you can produce on the field. Just looking at Indian players produced last season , we are looking forward to it , " Duminy said . Delhi Daredevils ' new signing , Zaheer Khan , and Mohammed Shami share a light moment on the sidelines of their team 's practice match. ( Pic : G Rajaraman ) © Cricbuzz On a day when there were only 16 players on view - Yuvraj Singh had been given the day off to visit his home town and pacemen Mohammed Shami and Zaheer Khan did not take part in the match - Duminy was asked to compare the work ethic of the Indian players against those from South Africa. " Oh it 's good. We have a very good staff that puts in a lot of hard work with the guys. The Indian players are really hardworking , especially younger guys , " he said . The Delhi Daredevils captain said he was not concerned about players being burnt out because of the World Cup having ended as recently as Sunday. " The international players enjoy playing in the IPL. I am not concerned about burnout as everyone is mature enough to know it 's a professional tournament. High stakes involved. Hopefully , we can do really well for the team , " he said . Duminy spoke highly of Yuvraj Singh and Zaheer Khan. " Those players will offer a lot in terms of experience. Coupled with myself , most players will feed off their knowledge. It is nice to have so many options with bat and ball. I think that 's where we lacked a little bit last year as we did n't have too many options. That 's something I am looking forward to this year. Their experience will be crucial not only for team but also for myself as captain , " he said . © Cricbuzz
