Preview : Kings XI Punjab look to improve on IPL 7 Sun , Apr 05 2015 by Prateek Srivastava Last updated on Monday , 06 April , 2015 , 12 : 50 PM Kings XI Punjab played their maiden IPL final last year © BCCL For the second season running , Kings XI Punjab go in as one of the favourites. Last year , the George Bailey-led team won 11 out of 14 matches to top the league stage and clinched Qualifier 2 against Chennai Super Kings to make it to their first IPL final. However , Kolkata Knight Riders turned in a great performance in the final to shatter KXIP 's dreams of a title. Now that they know what it 's like to play a final , this could very well be KXIP 's season . Captain : George Bailey Coach : Sanjay Bangar Owner : KPH Cricket Dream Private Limited IPL standings : 2014 : Runners-up , 2013 : 6th , 2012 : 6th , 2011 : 5th , 2010 : 8th ( last ) , 2009 : 5th 2008 : semi-finalists . How they fared in IPL 7 : KXIP got off to a great start to the tournament , winning their first five matches on the trot in the UAE leg. Their batting , led by big-hitting Australian Glenn Maxwell and David Miller , was undoubtedly the most effective in the tournament manifested by the fact that KXIP twice chased down a total in excess of 200 ( vs Chennai Super Kings and Sunrisers Hyderabad ) ; once they also chased down 190 plus ( Rajasthan Royals ) ; batting first they scored 231 and 226 against CSK ; they also scored a match-winning 198 vs Royal Challengers Bangalore. In the final once again they managed a big total of 199 . However , KXIP failed to step up in the knockouts. After a great performance in the league stage , Bailey 's men faced KKR in Qualifier 1 but gave a poor account of themselves at the historic Eden Gardens , falling 28 runs short of KKR 's 163. Against CSK in Qualifier 2 , they emerged victorious largely because of Virender Sehwag 's 58-ball 122. It was n't an easy win though. Suresh Raina 's 27-ball 85 had put CSK on course at one time but the team 's middle order failure helped KXIP reach the final. They were n't that lucky in the final , failing to defend 199. KXIP 's weak bowling , the fact very well hid by their superb batting for the most part of the tournament , was one reason why they could n't go all the way . IPL 8 chances : Looking at the kind of players they have , KXIP 's chances are as bright as they were last year. There is one major concern though. Clutch players like Maxwell , Miller and Mitchell Johnson are coming from a long and hectic World Cup and they may not be motivated enough. The other side of this argument is they all are professional players and are in the habit of playing one important tournament after another. KXIP would hope these players are in best shape and spirits. With that condition , the sky is the limit for this very strong KXIP team . Key players : David Miller , Mitchell Johnson , Virender Sehwag , Glenn Maxwell , George Bailey . Squad : George Bailey ( captain ) , Murali Vijay , Anureet Singh , Axar Patel , David Miller , Beuran Hendricks , Gurkeerat Singh Mann,Glenn Maxwell , Manan Vohra , Mitchell Johnson , Karanveer Singh , Shivam Sharma , Rishi Dhawan , Parvinder Awana , Sandeep Sharma , Shaun Marsh , Shardul Thakur , Virender Sehwag , Thisara Perera , Wriddhiman Saha ( wicketkeeper ) , Nikhil Naik , Yogesh Golwalkar Fresh face : Murali Vijay is the most significant addition to KXIP 's squad this season. The 31-year-old batsman had two 400 plus Test series in England and Australia but there is no guarantee as to whether he will be able to break into the eleven straight away. The only vulnerable player in the eleven from last season seems to be opener Manan Vohra who had a substandard domestic season. Looking at Vijay 's international experience , the team management is likely to go in with him for the first few matches and see whether or not he belongs . Cricbuzz.com 's prediction : If Bailey 's men play to their potential , the top-4 finish is well within their reach. The real problem is the play-offs and it 's important they keep their cool once they get there . © Cricbuzz
