Rohit calls for leniency during IPL on-field banters Sun , Apr 05 2015 Last updated on Sunday , 05 April , 2015 , 08 : 50 AM The Mumbai Indians skipper believes the umpires should not intervene in on-field altercations as long as the players remain in their boundaries Rohit Sharma has urged umpires not to intervene in player altercations as long as it 's in limit © BCCI Mumbai Indians skipper Rohit Sharma is hoping the umpires adopt a more restricted behavior when it comes to interfering in on-field altercations during the forthcoming edition of the Indian Premier League. Rohit , who on Saturday , attended the three-day workshop conducted by the BCCI in Mumbai , was seen interacting with several match officials and said that as long as the players do n't cross their limits , the umpires should not intervene much . " It has to work that way. If you want to see an improvement in the game and in the field , you have got to say what you really think. Only then will this exercise make a difference , " Rohit told IPLT20.com. " I said everything I wanted to say because I knew this was my best chance to get my thoughts across to the officials and tell them what happens on the other side of the official-players spectrum . " When people watch the game on TV , they should feel happy about it. They should n't have to see people having a go at each other. This is one step towards it a captain coming and sharing his views with the umpires and the umpires telling their side of the story. You never get to see these two sides of the game together the players and the officials. What happens on the field stays there and these two parties never get to share their thoughts with each other in such an open manner. " According to the Indian opener , this was the first time he had an open discussion with the match officials , calling it a valuable experience. Rohit also praised the BCCI for its initiative and believed such workshops will uplift the spirit of the game. " This was the first time that I interacted with the umpires and referees like this. And it was a good experience , " Rohit said. " It was good to share thoughts with the umpires from the player and captain 's perspective. This is a very good initiative from the BCCI because it is for the betterment of the game. " The workshop includes 26 match officials , 17 of whom are Indians. Simon Taufel , one of ICC 's senior umpires spoke on a variety of issues ranging from supporting Rohit 's idea to the what and what not an umpire should do in pressure situations. " There is so much for the umpires to know. We went through a few codes today and the playing conditions code was a big part of the discussion , " Taufel said. " One thing we try is to align the interpretations of the playing conditions as closely to international cricket as we can but also realize that IPL is a domestic tournament and hence we apply a lot of our common understandings as well. There are a lot of small twists here and there but on the whole when a player goes on the field , he understands exactly what the rules are regarding the playing conditions . " I think the IPL playing conditions are at par with the international standard. One great thing about the IPL is this consultation process between the IPL management and the ICC. We work through some of the differences and we make sure we are at the same level. " Taufel also lauded the fact that more and more Indian umpires are coming to the fore , many of whom he believes are close to making the cut for the elite club. " It takes a long time to produce Test level and elite umpires. It takes a lot of investment , support programmes and development , just like it takes to produce top-level cricketers , " Taufel added. " I can not tell you why we have n't had many Indian umpires in the ICC Elite Panel but I know that we are close. I am pleased to see that the BCCI is producing a really , really strong pool of first-class umpires. We will see the cream rise up to the top-level . " There is no doubt that more and more Indian umpires are getting opportunities at the highest level. We have undertaken exchange programmes with them , they are getting opportunities at World T20 events and we have had them in the World Cup as well. Last year we had an Indian umpire officiating in the IPL final for the first time. We are making progress. All the work we are putting in is producing results , and that is important. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
