IPL countdown : Top moments , Part 1 Sun , Apr 05 2015 by Kaushik Rangarajan Last updated on Sunday , 05 April , 2015 , 12 : 48 PM Since its inception in 2008 , the Indian Premier League has captured the imagination of the cricketing world with its in-your-face entertainment quotient. The excitement of a new season is heightened several notches due to the progressive success of the preceding editions. Over the years , the tournament has witnessed moments of unparalleled joy , heartbreaks , outstanding individual performances , inexplicable gaffes. Cricbuzz takes a trip down memory lane and pulls out 15 golden moments from the seven previous seasons to kindle your anticipation for the gala event . Our first set of moments feature some dancing , a unimaginable fielding gaffe , two kinds of send-offs and a botched team selection. Take a look . 15. The greatest run-out miss In arguably the greatest fielding gaffe in IPL history , Chennai Super Kings missed not one , not two but three chances to run out then Deccan Chargers batsman Dwayne Smith. Chasing 178 , in a group stage match between the two teams , Chargers got off to the worst possible start losing Gilchrist , Gibbs and Laxman with just one- \ run on the board. Smith then tried to hit his way out of trouble and had reached 48 off 21 before the bizzare incident took place. He cut a Shadab Jakati delivery to deep point and set off for a single. The confusion set in when Smith attempted to steal an overthrow after the bowler failed to collect the throw from the deep. His partner , however , was not interested in the run and the two batsman were stranded at the batting end waiting for CSK to effect the run-out. Except , they did n't. S. Badrinath , who was backing up when the throw came in , rolled the ball back to the bowler , who failed to collect it and instead knocked the bails over. He then set after the ball and rolled it back to Badrinath , who was at the stumps then but the throw was wide allowing Smith to get back. Amid all the mayhem , captain Mi 's stern expression was a sight to behold. Thankfully for him , Smith was lbw off the very next ball he faced . 14. Gangnam versus Bhangnam The IPL2013 clash between Mumbai Indians and Royal Challengers Bangalore at the Wankhede Stadium was billed as the battle of the heavy weights Lasith Malina and Chris Gayle. RCB came into the match on the back of a thumping win over Pune Warriors where Gayle 's scarcely believable 175 broke all kinds of records including those set for most number of impromptu " Gangnam Style " dances. It took the Mumbai crowd a while to see Gayle as Rohit Sharma opted to bat. MI 's total of 194 meant the Jamaican would go after the target straight away. And go-after he did , but not before a sedate start. Mitchell Johnson was hit for a six and a couple of fours forcing Rohit to bring on Harbhajan inside the powerplay. The offie struck in his first over with a slightly slower delivery that forced Gayle into mishitting one to deep mid-wicket. Having dismissed the dangerman , Harbhajan started a celebratory jig that was half 'Gangnam ' and half 'Bhangra ' , a Punjabi dance form , much to the delight of the 30,000 home fans. Gayle 's dismissal triggered a batting collapse and RCB fell well short of Mumbai 's total. " My dance ended up in a 'Bhangnam ' style , " an ecstatic Harbhajan said after the match . 13. 'Purple Cap ' Morkel sits out In the seven seasons of the IPL so far , Delhi Daredevils have had a total mixed bag. In the first two seasons , they made the semi-final stage before enduring a couple of average seasons. In 2012 , they topped the group stages only to bow out due to bizzare selection. In the crucial second qualifier against CSK , captain Virender Sehwag left 'Purple Cap ' holder Morne Morkel out of the side to maintain the team balance after Irfan Pathan reported unfit. In place of Morkel , Delhi played little-known off-spinning all-rounder Sunny Gupta. What more , the youngster playing his first IPL game infront of a raucous Chennai crowd , was handed the first over. The pressure of a knockout was too much for Sunny , who duly conceded two boundaries off the first two deliveries of the match. Murali Vijay , who had until then endured indifferent batting form , burst to life and smashed a Delhi attack sans Morkel into submission. The TN opener finished with 113 off 58 as CSK notched up 222. Sunny , who conceded 47 in his 3 overs , bagged a first-ball duck to cap off a forgettable debut. All along Morkel watched from the sidelines . 12. Gilly strikes ! With his first and last ball Adam Gilchrist , as a champion wicket-keeper , over the course of his career effected innumerable dismissals. In the 2013 season of IPL , with Mumbai Indians nine down and looking unlikely to win , the affable superstar created a truly memorable moment when he decided to swap his wicket-keeping gloves to have a bowl. Gilly , playing in his final IPL game , flighted his first delivery outside the off-stump and Harbhajan Singh , the batsman , took the bait and holed out to Gurkeerat Singh at long on. A surprised Gilchrist set-off on a run and did the 'Gangnam Style ' dance himself. An emotional Kings XI team then hauled their skipper on their shoulders for a lap aroudn the Dharamsala stadium. Despite their 50-run win over eventual champions , MI , KXIP failed to make it to the playoffs. A bemused Gilchrist in the post match celebration remarked : " Harbhajan took my wicket many many times so I just wanted to mimic his reaction. " 11. A smiling aeroplane send off A particular feature of the tournament that captured the imagination of the viewing public right from its inception was how teammates at the international level fared when thrown against each other. As it turned out , competition , even amongst country teammates , remained extremely healthy. Case in point - Dwayne Bravo and Kieron Pollard. In a CSK-MI eliminator game played at the neutral M Chinnaswamy Stadium in the 2012 season , the West Indies duo displayed a healthy dose of the above mentioned competitive spirit. CSK , who recovered from a wretched start to post 187 in their 20 overs , had the chasing MI under all kinds of trouble at 129 for 7 in the 18th over. Pollard , known for his ability to hit a long ball , was at the crease and in him rested Mumbai 's hopes of a miraculous turnaround. Pollard , attempting to hit Bravo into the stands , mistimed and holed out to mid-on sparking off a unique celebration from his Trinidadian teammate. Bravo accompanied Pollard half-way towards the pavilion , all the while gesturing him to get on a plane and fly away. To his credit , despite his team 's impending exit from the tournament , Pollard took the banter well and even sported a smile . © Cricbuzz
