Captaincy has made me a better player : Rohit Sun , Apr 05 2015 Last updated on Sunday , 05 April , 2015 , 12 : 48 PM The Mumbai Indians skipper said the responsibility of leading the side has helped improve his decision making a great deal . Rohit Sharma is all set to take charge of Mumbai Indians for the third successive season © BCCI Rohit Sharma , captain of Mumbai Indians , feels the responsibility of leading the side has had an impact on him like none other. Assigned captaincy of the Reliance-owned franchise midway through the 2013 season , Rohit took the side to its maiden IPL title and followed it up with the Champions Trophy win later that year. In the next edition , with the team 's back against the wall , Rohit lifted his men to make it to the knockouts after going winless in the UAE leg . " With captaincy , a great deal of responsibility has come on my shoulders and I am loving each and every moment of it , " Rohit told IPLt20.com. " It has made me a better player and my decision making has been good over the last couple of years which is what you enjoy. You want to grow as a cricketer. I feel with the captaincy lot of things have come into my game. I have matured as a person and I understand things well. I am glad captaincy has come my way and I have responded well. " As a settled MI eye a second IPL trophy , Rohit believes his side possesses a host of exciting young talents and international T20 powerhouses which will help him strike the right balance. " I have had a great two years so I just want to continue what I have been doing and as a team also we want to have a lot of success , " Rohit said. " Whether it 's Mumbai Indians or as the Indian team , wherever we go and play we want to be successful. The team is good. We have got good young bunch of cricketers. The drive to become a better team is there , so I hope we just continue. " Contrary to their previous seasons , MI suffered in terms of recruits in 2014 - both domestic and international. The lack of quality uncapped Indian players put pressure on the marquee players such as Michael Hussey , Corey Anderson and Kieron Pollard. This year , however , Rohit is confident the new faces will bring a lot of positivity and competitiveness . " We do n't have much time to know each other so we have to make full use of whatever time we have , " Rohit said. " You do that by having a lot of get-together sessions , you get along in the team room , have casual dinners where you get to see everyone and most importantly , you talk. And as a captain it 's my responsibility to go and talk to everyone and make them comfortable. Because the guys who are new in the team , they might just feel uncomfortable , it 's natural. It has happened to me before to a lot of other players as well. So it 's important for a captain to just go and talk and get to know them . " Every person has a character , so it 's important to give them liberty , make them feel at home so that they can express themselves. That 's how you get to know them. Once the person expresses themselves ( freely ) the people who are watching see the person for who they are and will know them better. " One of MI 's strong suits over the years has been their batting , but the bowling front is where they have never been that reliable. However , this season , it is the bowling which could be MI 's main attraction in light of new additions such as World Cup-winning Josh Hazlewood and experienced domestic medium pacers Vinay Kumar and Abhimanyu Mithun . " We have a great bowling line-up. Vinay Kumar and Abhimanyu Mithun are seasoned campaigners. And the past two years they have been winning the Ranji Trophy and everything so they are obviously on a high and they know what they are doing , " Rohit said of his bowlers. " It 's important to know what your strengths and weaknesses are and they know that. I am sure they will bring a lot of things to the table for us when it comes to bowling. They have a lot of experience. They have played in the IPL and played international crickets as well so they know [ what needs to be done ] . " Josh Hazlewood he has been good for Australia this summer and the kind of confidence he has right now will bring a lot of success to us I hope. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
