Ishant Sharma is fit and raring to go Sun , Apr 05 2015 Last updated on Sunday , 05 April , 2015 , 12 : 13 PM Ishant Sharma , who missed the World Cup due to a knee injury , says he is fit and is eager to perform for his franchise Sunrisers Hyderabad in IPL 2015 The Delhi-born quick said Dale Steyn has been a big help and playing alongside him has been a good learning experience Although they were not up to the mark in the previous season , Ishant is confident that SRH can once again make it to the top-four Ishant Sharma is confident that SRH can make it to the top-four in IPL 2015. © BCCI India 's premier pace bowler Ishant Sharma , who missed the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 due to a knee injury , says he is fit and eager to perform for his franchise Sunrisers Hyderabad during Indian Premier League 2015. The lanky pacer believes the format will help him regain his match fitness and feels T20 is easier for fast bowlers as compared to ODIs where the field restrictions are a big problem . " I am fit and raring to go. T20 is still easy for a fast bowler than ODIs. At least in T20 cricket , there is an extra fielder outside the circle to give you protection unlike in ODI cricket which has the four-fielder rule. So at least in T20 cricket , we can do the containing act with the added fielder , " Ishant said. " I believe that bowlers are making their presence felt in limited-overs cricket. We saw Mitchell Starc getting the player of the tournament award in World Cup. So bowlers are surely getting their due in limited-overs cricket. " Talking about the much-criticised four-fielder rule in ODIs , he said , " Yes , the four-fielder rule is a problem , you ask any bowler. But there certain things which are beyond your control. So , one has to abide by the rules that are being implemented by the international body and respect them. It 's important to rise above the challenges and do the most within the rules. Bowl according to the field and that helps the captain put forth his strategy. " Frequent injury breakdowns have hampered the 26-year-old 's career since his debut in 2007 , but Ishant said even though he has worked hard on his fitness , there are certain things that are unavoidable in a sportsperson 's life. " Injuries are unavoidable and out of our control. I am doing everything that needs to be done in my capacity as a player to maintain and improve on my fitness. Be it training , practice , discipline in life and every little thing that needs to be taken care of but certain things are just not in our hands , " he said . " Obviously you feel disappointed when you are unable to control certain things and you miss out on important events but that 's the way it is. I just try and forget that part and move on. By thinking about it too much , we unnecessarily put pressure on ourselves and it only hampers our progress. Cricket is tough. If you perform well in a match your career spirals and the moment you perform badly in a game , your career plummets , so it 's not easy. Failures are part of a cricketer 's life and when you discuss all these problems with big players then it helps. " Having been part of the Sunrisers squad since 2013 , Ishant has shared the dressing room with Dale Steyn. The Delhi-born quick said the South Africa pace ace has been a big help and playing alongside him has been a good learning experience. " I have learnt a lot from Dale Steyn. We have been playing together for close to five years and I have picked a lot from him. I have followed how he prepares for a game , how he physically and mentally handles things before and during a game. How well he handles pressure and all such things. I do observe and follow from other good players in the side. " The Sun network-owned franchise , which replaced Deccan Chargers in 2013 , had a good maiden season in the sixth edition of the IPL , finishing fourth in the standings. Although they were not up to the mark last season and finished sixth , Ishant is confident that SRH can once again make it to the top-four . " Since the last two years , we have represented Sunrisers Hyderabad , we have done good and played well as a unit to make it count. We have backed each other in tough situations and played like a family. The bonding between the players has been good and everybody has chipped in when it matters. So our aim would be to get into the top four and we are confident of it , " he said . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
