Virat Kohli : Gayle , AB and I can bat freely Bengaluru , Sun , Apr 05 2015 Last updated on Monday , 06 April , 2015 , 06 : 11 AM Royal Challengers Bangalore skipper Virat Kohli said the arrival of players like Dinesh Karthik , S Badrinath and Darren Sammy will ease the pressure on the top order Kohli said he along with Chris Gayle and AB de Villiers will be able to bat without any inhibitions in the 2015 season Virat Kohli said he along with Chris Gayle and AB de Villiers will be able to bat without any inhibitions in the 2015 season. © BCCI Royal Challengers Bangalore skipper Virat Kohli said the arrival of players like S Badrinath and Darren Sammy will ease the pressure on the top order and he mentioned that he as well as Chris Gayle and AB de Villiers would be able to express themselves better in Indian Premier League 2015. Besides Badrinath and Sammy , Dinesh Karthik was also bought at the auction , and the 26-year old Kohli said the presence of experienced players has given depth to their batting line-up . " This season is pretty different for us because for the last three or maybe four years myself , Chris [ Gayle ] and AB [ de Villiers ] have played under a lot of pressure because the batting revolved around the three of us. If you look at the few other teams , they have a lot of depth in their batting which meant the guys could go and express themselves and play freely that worked for them , " Kohli said after the team 's jersey launch . " We had to be cautious and at the same time look to score runs which sort of put us under pressure at times but this time around we have got Dinesh Karthik , Darren Sammy , Badrinath and youngsters like Mandeep Singh coming into the batting line-up. It is a very strong batting unit this time and we have got really good depth with great mixture of Indian youngsters and great bowlers from around the world and some good power-hitters , " Kohli said . RCB 's skipper said he along with Gayle and de Villiers will be able to bat without any inhibitions in the 2015 season. " This season the three of us can play the way we always wanted to play in T20 cricket. Like you see AB , playing the way he did in the World Cup. I am sure he will be feeling the same and he will be feeling relieved that he can start playing ( his shots ) from ball one , two or three. That is pretty exciting for us as a team. " While RCB have been runners-up twice , they have n't been quite up to the mark in the previous three seasons , failing to reach the knock-outs on all three occasions. Kohli said they have a strong enough team to clinch the Indian Premier League trophy in 2015 . " We always aim to do well in the tournament. We have played the finals twice , played the Champions League finals once and it is time that we cross that hurdle and we have a team which can cross the hurdle. I am sure that the players we have retained and bought in the auction , we can create a good combination which gives us a good chance in the tournament. If 11 players believe that we can win then we will surely do well in the tournament , " he said . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
