Glenn McGrath Says He Does n't Want to See Kids Sledging on the Field Glenn McGrath Says He Does n't Want to See Kids Sledging on the Field In the ongoing India 's tour of Australia , six separate incidents have been reported for poor player behaviour with David Warner being the latest to get reprimand and fine from the ICC match referee . Last updated on Wednesday , 21 January , 2015 16 : 27 IST Total Shares File photo : David Warner seen exchanging words with Shikhar Dhawan during Test series . © AFP Former fast bowling great Glenn McGrath says playing with a passion was a must for cricketers but he would not appreciate if kids are involved in fiery on-field spats. ( Indian media slams 'motormouth ' David Warner ) In the ongoing India 's tour of Australia , six separate incidents have been reported for poor player behaviour with David Warner being the latest to get reprimand and fine from the ICC match referee. ( ICC Aims to Tone Down Sledging ) " Kids should n't be doing that on the field anyway. Sometimes I get a bit annoyed with the media focusing on it and making a massive issue of it , and some other teams make an issue that Australians are the biggest sledgers out there when every team does it , " McGrath said. ( David Warner defends 'speak English ' call to Rohit Sharma ) " We all have a role to play in it , but we do n't want to see underage kids running around sledging. It 's not about abuse , it 's not about being too much in your face. You would n't want to see the kids sledging like that , that 's not what it 's about , " McGrath was quoted as saying by Australian media . However , McGrath says it was perfectly fine if cricketers show some passion on the field by playing aggressive cricket . " It 's a fine line sometimes. You want to see the players playing with feeling and that it means something to them. You do n't want to see a bunch of robots out there . " That 's why we have the umpires and match referees ? if there 's an issue , they step in. You want to see some aggression and feeling but you do n't want to see it getting carried away because then it gets ridiculous. The guys are out there with their skill on show and doing their best. " Story first published on : Wednesday , 21 January 2015 15 : 16 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
