IPL countdown : Top moments , Part 2 Mon , Apr 06 2015 by Kaushik Rangarajan Last updated on Monday , 06 April , 2015 , 02 : 07 PM Since its inception in 2008 , the Indian Premier League has captured the imagination of the cricketing world with its in-your-face entertainment quotient. The excitement of a new season is heightened several notches due to the progressive success of the preceding editions. Over the years , the tournament has witnessed moments of unparalleled joy , heartbreaks , outstanding individual performances , inexplicable gaffes. Cricbuzz takes a trip down memory lane and pulls out 15 golden moments from the seven previous seasons to kindle your anticipation for the gala event . The second part of the countdown features a 37-run over , a butter-fingered fielder , a Rhodes impersonator , a tied super-over and a sledging mismatch. Read on.. . 10. A 37-run over Little known Kochi Tuskers ' left-arm medium-pacer Prashanth Parameswaran infamously shot into limelight during the 2011 season for conceding the most runs in an over in IPL history -37 ! Defending a measly total of 125 on a road of a pitch in Bangalore , Mahela Jayawardene 's KTK side needed early breakthroughs. RP Singh , Ramesh Powar and Parmeswaran are hardly the bowlers to send shivers down the rival dug-out and as it turned out RCB 's opening batsman Chris Gayle and Tillakaratne Dilshan were in no mood to stretch the run-chase. Dilshan milked 20 off a Powar over before Gayle stepped up. He feasted on the Parameswaran 's cannon-fodder like deliveries and dispatched him to all parts of the small Bangalore ground. First two deliveries ( second was a no-ball ) flew over point for sixes. Balls two and three disappeared for four past mid-wicket and cover respectively before Gayle revved up for more. The fourth ball was dispatched over cover for six before the next was sent back towards the sight-screen for another maximum. Even the gods wanted to see more of the Gayle storm as the final delivery took the inside edge and slipped past the keeper for four taking the count to 37 in the over. RCB had raced to 66 in the three overs and the chase was almost done . 9. Smith pulls off super over miracle Steven Smith 's meteoric rise to the top of the batting charts has been well documented. Coming in after a successful 5-0 Ashes win , Steven Smith lit up the seventh edition of the IPL in the 2014 season with some wonderful displays on the field. Against Gautam Gambhir 's KKR in Abu Dhabi , uber cool Smith played the nonchalance card to perfection and brought home two points for Rajasthan Royals in a tense super-over finish. After James Faulkner pulled a rabbit out of the hat in the 19th over of KKR 's chase and helped tie the game , it was the turn of fellow Australians Smith and Shane Watson to chase down 11 in the one over eliminator for victory. Bowling to them was ace-spinner Sunil Narine. Narine conceded two singles and a two off his first three deliveries before Watson hoicked one towards cow corner for a four. The batsman swung hard at the fifth ball but succeeded in getting just a single. With three required off the last ball , Smith walked out and quietly nudged the ball towards extra cover and jogged back for two. Despite the super-over ending in a tie , RR picked up the win on account of having hit more boundaries. Gambhir was left unimpressed even as Watson and Smith celebrated . 8. Third time 's not the charm Kieron Pollard has perhaps been singularly responsible for raising the fielding standards in IPL but in a league encounter against Chennai Super Kings at the Wankhede Stadium in 2013 , the Trinidadian experienced a rare butter-fingered day on the field , much to the surprise of everyone in attendance. Defending a sub-par 139 , Mumbai relied on early breakthroughs from ace paceman Mitchell Johnson and he looked every bit in the mood to give them that , except Pollard on the field was feeling particularly giving. Off the fourth ball of the chase , CSK opener Mike Hussey cut a short delivery towards point where Pollard was stationed. With the ball flying quickly off the blade , Pollard succeeded in only palming it to the boundary. A missed chance. The next ball , identical to the previous one , was cut straight at Pollard and not as hard it had been on the previous occasion. Pollard , looking to take it in front of his stomach , somehow spilled it. Again. Johnson could n't believe it. His disbelief turned to anguish when the action replayed itself a third time off the very next delivery. Short and wide - cut to Pollard - spilled. All Pollard could do , at the end of one of the most ridiculous passage of play , was to give a sheepish smile. Thankfully for him though , Mike Hussey and CSK were in an equally giving mood themselves and fell apart soon after to hand MI , the win . 7. He 's only a boy The format of IPL is such that it can throw up strange contests. To quote a boxing metaphor , only in the IPL can a cruiser-weight take on a heavyweight. The final of the second edition of the tournament between the now defunct Deccan Chargers and Royal Challengers Bangalore witnessed one such incident that pitted a relative unknown - Manish Pandey against a seasoned veteran , Andrew Symonds. Pandey who had shot into limelight just a few matches prior to the final by becoming the first Indian to score an IPL hundred , also against DC , was identified as one of the key men capable of leading RCB 's chase of 143. As Pandey walked out to open the batting , Symonds followed the young batsman all the way to the pitch , muttering away looking to psyche him out of the game. Symonds ' antics prompted Harsha Bhogle on air to exclaim " Symonds should pick on someone his own size. He 's ( Pandey ) only a boy. " Symonds ' tirade continued well into the first over of the chase as Pandey drove the first delivery he faced towards Symonds at cover. Symonds ' sledge worked as Pandey made only 4 runs off 8 balls before falling to Pragyan Ohja. DC then went on to claim a memorable win and became the second team to win the IPL . 6. Yuvi does a Jonty Mumbai Indians , the most expensive IPL franchise , got off to a slow start in the opening edition of the tournament , a predicament owed largely due to the untimely injury to Sachin Tendulkar and Harbhajan 's suspension following 'slap-gate'. Their campaign gained momentum mid-way through the tournament under the stewardship of Shaun Pollock and at one point MI were firm favourites to grab the final semi-final berth before they stumbled their way out of the reckoning following three successive defeats. Going into their home game against KXIP on a six-match winning streak , Mumbai looked set to chase down Punjab 's 189 with Tendulkar leading the way with a sterling half-century. His run-out with 30 to get off 3 overs turned the tide back in Punjab 's favour who skittled through the MI middle order in rapid succession. MI were seven down and needed 19 off the final over bowled by VRV Singh. Siddharth Chitnis slapped a waist high full toss ( no ball ) for six before getting a four of the next. The equation was reduced to a more comfortable 8 off 5 before the inexperienced MI batsmen committed hara-kiri. Chitnis and Dilhara Fernando got run-out looking to pinch an extra run and last man Vikrant Yeligati walked in with 4 to get off 2. He got two off the penultimate ball to reduce the equation to 2 off 1. Yeligati then hit the last ball to mid-off and scampered for a single. Yuvraj Singh , the fielder , scooped on to the ball and flung himself at the stump ala Jonty Rhodes , effected the run-out and set out on a celebratory run around the Wankhede Stadium much to chagrin of the home fans . © Cricbuzz
