Ready to fit in into any role : Irfan Pathan Mon , Apr 06 2015 Last updated on Monday , 06 April , 2015 , 08 : 13 AM The dream is to play for the country again - Irfan Pathan © AFP Former India allrounder Irfan Pathan is excited about the prospect of turning up for two-time Indian Premier League ( IPL ) Champions Chennai Super Kings ( CSK ) and is ready to take up any role the team offers him. Pathan is keen on using this chance to pave a path through to the Indian national team. After going unsold in the first session during this year 's auction , Irfan , who last played for India in 2012 World T20 , was lucky to be picked by the Mahendra Singh Dhoni-led CSK. The Baroda southpaw wants to make the most of the opportunity . " Obviously , the dream is to play for the country again. But at the same time , I should make sure that I go there step by step and that is what I am doing. I did well in the Ranji Trophy. I hope I can do well in the upcoming IPL as well. There are some matches coming up after the IPL season. Sooner or later , I will fulfill my dream. In 2011 , people talked that it was going to be difficult to make a comeback but I told them that I will make a comeback and I did. I am saying it again - I am going to return in the national team and I am working towards it , " said Irfan . Irfan , of course , may face tough competition from other all-rounders in the side. " Having many all-rounders is beneficial for the team. I have had a discussion with Stephen Fleming ( CSK coach ) and he gave an idea as to what kind of a role he wants me to play. That is a team talk. For me , I am feeling very confident. It is just a matter of what Dhoni thinks in terms of how he is going to utlise me and how the team wants me to play. I think with the experience that I have , I can fit in any role. I just have to be ready mentally , " he said . Having represented Kings XI Punjab , Delhi Daredevils and SunRisers Hyderabad in the previous editions , Irfan is looking forward to re-unite with Dhoni . " Obviously , it is a new team for me but there are lot of guys in the team that I know them very well. So , I am really excited to play with the most successful team in the IPL so far. And I am really excited to play under Dhoni. Hopefully , the season will be great as I had trained very well having bowled over 150 overs in the Ranji Trophy this season , " he said. " I had played in different teams earlier. Compared to other teams , CSK has a pretty relaxed atmosphere. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
