CSK - Kings of all they survey Bengaluru , Mon , Apr 06 2015 by Prasad RS Last updated on Monday , 06 April , 2015 , 12 : 51 PM Twice champions , three time runners-up and two time semifinalists. That pretty much sums up the enviable record Chennai Super Kings ( CSK ) have had in the seven-year history of the IPL The squad boasts of a deep batting line-up , good attack and superb fielding. They also have quality all-rounders In Stephen Fleming , CSK have a coach whose cricketing acumen is second to none , while Dhoni remains the undisputed leader of the ship. © Getty Twice champions , three time runners-up and two time semifinalists. That pretty much sums up the enviable record Chennai Super Kings ( CSK ) have had in the seven-year history of the IPL. It is a dream line-up which saw the explosive pair of Dwayne Smith and Brendon McCullum start proceedings last season before the likes of Suresh Raina , Faf du Plessis and skipper MS Dhoni took over. As if these heavyweights are n't enough , old warhorse Michael Hussey too returned to the fold after having been part of the Mumbai Indians in 2014 . While Mohit Sharma , Ravindra Jadeja and R Ashwin have shone with the ball , the presence of outstanding fielders adds a lot of fire-power to the CSK unit. Quality cricketers notwithstanding , the credit for CSK 's success over the years also goes to a strong team culture and the presence of a loyal fan base. As Michael Hussey walked out for practice at the MA Chidambaram Stadium last week , a fan watching the proceedings summed it up with a placard which read " Ghar Wapsi - Welcome back. " That 's not all. Despite the influx of new players into the team , the Dhoni-led unit has more or less retained its core over the years. The constants in the form of Dhoni , Raina , and R Ashwin in the line-up have made it easy for the fans to connect with the team. " As most of the players in our team have been together for many seasons now , it gives the side a settled look which today is the hallmark of our team , " said Raina , during an interaction with TOI last year. Interestingly , even the support staff in CSK has more or less been the same for the past few seasons . Brendon McCullum , who joined the side last season , added that the team has immensely benefited by having clear-cut roles for each member. " You are able to find your way into the team and know what is expected off you , " McCullum mentioned. In Dhoni , Bravo , McCullum and Faf , CSK may have been blessed with four international skippers , but the Indian skipper remains the undisputed leader of the ship when it comes to taking on-field decisions . Despite so many pluses , CSK do have a few grey areas and seam bowling is one of them. Mohit Sharma , who was the highest wicket-taker with 23 wickets last year , failed to find much support. CSK also suffered because of leaking runs in the death. To address this concern , the auctions earlier this year saw the side bolster their pace attack by roping in Kyle Abbott , Andrew Tye and Irfan Pathan. The seam attack which already possessed Dwayne Bravo , Ashish Nehra , Ishwar Pandey and Matt Henry in their ranks - now appears more potent. In Stephen Fleming , CSK have a coach whose cricketing acumen is second to none. The former Kiwi skipper has strived hard to maintain consistency in selection. As the new season beckons , CSK will once again begin the competition as favourites. Having missed out on the trophy in the last three seasons , Dhoni 's men will be more than keen to become the first team to have won the title thrice . Good On balance , weak on pace Strength : One of the most balanced and consistent sides in the tournament. The squad boasts of a deep batting line-up , good attack and superb fielding. They also have quality all-rounders . Weakness : Absence of a genuine quick bowler. Mike Hussey , who the franchise bought back from MI , could be rusty . Opportunity : The opening pair of Brendon McCullum and Dwayne Smith is probably the most destructive. If they give a quick start , batsmen like Suresh Raina , MS Dhoni and Dwayne Bravo can put a huge score on board which may seal the fate of the match in most cases . Threats : Fatigue. Quite a few players like MS Dhoni , Suresh Raina , Brendon McCullum , Ravindra Jadeja , R Ashwin and seamer Mohit Sharma could be tired after a gruelling World Cup . Squad : MS Dhoni ( c ) , Ravichandran Ashwin , Brendon McCullum , Ashish Nehra , Baba Aparajith , Dwayne Bravo , Dwayne Smith , Faf du Plessis , Ishwar Pandey , Matt Henry , Mithun Manhas , Mohit Sharma , Pawan Negi , Ravindra Jadeja , Samuel Badree , Suresh Raina , Ronit More , Michael Hussey , Rahul Sharma , Kyle Abbott. Irfan Pathan , Pratyush Singh , Ankush Bains , Eklavya Dwivedi © TNN
