Rajeev Shukla returns as IPL governing council chairman New Delhi , Mon , Apr 06 2015 Last updated on Monday , 06 April , 2015 , 03 : 33 PM Shukla , who replaced Ranjib Biswal as the chairman of IPL , had resigned from the post after the 2013 spot-fixing scandal broke out Shukla was the IPL chairman before Biswal took over in 2013 , and this time is joined by Sourav Ganguly and Ravi Shastri in the governing council Earlier , Shukla was in line for a top BCCI post , but he had lost the BCCI elections for the treasurer 's post to Anirudh Chaudhary. © BCCL Rajeev Shukla was appointed chairman of the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) governing council by the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) on Monday . Shukla , who replaced Ranjib Biswal as the chairman of IPL , had resigned from the post after the 2013 spot-fixing scandal broke out. Shukla was the IPL chairman before Biswal took over in 2013.Former India captains Sourav Ganguly and Ravi Shastri were also included in the IPL governing council . " Shukla is the next IPL chairman , " a BCCI office-bearer told TOI on Sunday. TOI reported on Saturday on how the BCCI was debating over three choices on who would be the next IPL chairman . If former Indian captain Sourav Ganguly had the backing of BCCI president Jagmohan Dalmiya , former BCCI chief N Srinivasan was behind Biswal while the Sharad Pawar faction was solidly behind Ajay Shirke.But with no solution in sight , BCCI picked Shukla as a consensus candidate . Earlier , Shukla was in line for a top BCCI post , but he had lost the BCCI elections for the treasurer 's post to Anirudh Chaudhary . Technically , BCCI should have appointed the IPL chairman and the members of the governing council ( GC ) on the day its AGM was held last month. But they could n't reach a decision then . Former IPL chairman Lalit Modi , who was sacked for financial bungling in IPL , took a dig at Rajeev Shukla just moments after the announcement was made . So the clown @ ShuklaRajiv is back as # IPLChairman Srini 's stooge who allowed all the # matchfixing in # IPL IMportant to see his past record — Lalit Kumar Modi ( @ LalitKModi ) April 6 , 2015 © TNN
