KXIP skipper Bailey ready for spin threat Tue , Apr 07 2015 Last updated on Tuesday , 07 April , 2015 , 05 : 42 AM Bailey led KXIP to the final of the IPL last season , where they lost to KKR Bailey believes the Australian players have moved on from the World Cup triumph and ready to focus on IPL Bailey will be keen on KXIP repeating last year 's success , and perhaps even going a step further to lift their maiden IPL trophy. © BCCI Riding high on the success of Kings XI Punjab 's last season success , skipper George Bailey has not let the disappointment of no longer being Australia 's top contender for ODI captaincy have any sort of effect on him. In fact , the 32-year-old looked relaxed and his main focus lay on the the IPL where his side were the runners-up in 2014 . Bailey though has been short on match practice since he played just one match in Australia 's World Cup triumph. However , with the IPL beginning in a day 's time , he is on the mark as long as preparations are concerned and has undergone special training in order to tackle spin. " I usually spend a lot of time training when I am not playing , so no issues there. But it was special to be part of a World Cup winning squad regardless of the fact I did not get to play much , " Bailey , told PTI on Monday . " There were a few things I worked specifically on with Darren Lehmann. I knew that coming across to India , I would be playing lot of spin bowling in this format. So besides fine-tuning my T20 game , the focus was on tackling quality spinners , " Bailey said . Despite not getting to participate much in the World Cup which Australia won for a record fifth occasion , Bailey said that the feeling of lifting the trophy has finally sunk in and that the players are now looking forward to playing the IPL. The KXIP skipper reckons other sides will be targeting his team , so the challenge is to keep the players on track in order to repeat last year 's success . " We obviously enjoyed the success [ in World Cup ] but most of the guys have shifted their focus to IPL and we will be coming across each other as opponents now , " Bailey said. " The big change this season will be about meeting the standards we set last year. In our first year , we surprised a lot of other teams. This year , we are one of the hunted teams . " So it will be about handling our own expectations. As long as we are able to play what we are capable of , I think we can have some more success , " said Bailey , who has been training with the team in Pune. " According to Bailey,this season too will see a lot of Indian talent from his side come to the fore. He cited last year 's example where apart from the star power of David Miller and Glenn Maxwell , the domestic crop also raised its game. " Going into IPL , the major thing is that everyone has been playing a lot of cricket. And it looks everyone is in pretty good form , " Bailey said . " The regular guys ( Maxwell , Mitchell Johnson , Miller ) will no doubt be key again. But what was encouraging last year was the development of some of the Indian guys like Manan [ Vohra ] , Patel [ Axar ] Wriddhiman Saha and Rishi Dhawan. That really complimented the star power we have. The opposition can assess quickly whether we rely on one or two guys though the tournament and if they do it , then we are going to find it hard to have sustained success. So it is important that we perform as a unit. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
