IPL countdown : Top moments , Part 3 Bengaluru , Tue , Apr 07 2015 by Kaushik Rangarajan Last updated on Tuesday , 07 April , 2015 , 03 : 17 PM © BCCI Since its inception in 2008 , the Indian Premier League has captured the imagination of the cricketing world with its in-your-face entertainment quotient. The excitement of a new season is heightened several notches due to the progressive success of the preceding editions. Over the years , the tournament has witnessed moments of unparalleled joy , heartbreaks , outstanding individual performances , inexplicable gaffes. Cricbuzz takes a trip down memory lane and pulls out 15 golden moments from the seven previous seasons to kindle your anticipation for the gala event . The final part of the moments trilogy features a never before seen partnership , football like emotional spectacles , friends turned foes and a possessed individual . 5. The Pondulkar © BCCI Over the years , Mumbai Indians developed an image for signing players on reputation and not necessarily current merit. They outdid themselves in 2013 when they signed a recently-retired Ricky Ponting and handed him the captaincy. The signing brought to life a scenario from most people 's fantasy teams - Sachin Tendulkar and Ricky Ponting in one team. Social media broke loose during the second match of the season in Bengaluru when the duo walked out together to open the Mumbai innings. Often seen as contemporaries and on-field rivals , the sight of watching two of the greatest modern-day batsmen step out together was too much for even cynics of IPL to miss out. The excitement reached fever pitch when RCB threw on spin legend Muttiah Muralitharan on to bowl at the two masters. The 22-yard strip at the Chinnaswamy stadium collectively housed over 50,000 international runs and 1000 wickets at the same time. From a cricketing point of view however , the highly billed 'Pondulkar ' failed to get MI off to solid starts prompting Ponting to drop himself from the side and hand over the reigns to Rohit Sharma , who then led the side admirably to their first IPL win . 4.Ecstasy to despair in 2 seconds © BCCI Contests between CSK and RCB , called the 'South Indian Derby ' , have produced many a moment to savour but none as memorable as their clash at Chepauk in 2013. Despite losing early wickets , fifties from Virat Kohli and AB de Villiers had pushed RCB 's total to 166 , a competitive one further enhanced by CSK losing their openers inside four overs. Suresh Raina , S Badrinath and MS Dhoni then scored brisk 30s to keep the chase within reach before Ravindra Jadeja took centre stage. Chennai needed 16 off the final over bowled by RP Singh. Jadeja picked up a boundary off the first with an outside edge to third-man before launching a length ball over long-on for a six. 6 off 4. The next three balls yielded two singles and a double , meaning Jadeja had to score 2 off the final ball to secure a win. RP 's last ball was short and outside off , Jadeja went for the cut and edged it straight into the hands of the third-man fielder. A beaming Kohli ran in to celebrate with his team only to see the umpire signalling a no-ball for RP had overstepped by a mile. Kohli 's ecstasy had turned to despair in a split-second and CSK had snatched victory from the jaws of defeat . 3. A last ball six and unforeseen reactions © BCCI Rajasthan Royals should have played the playoffs in 2014 season. They did n't. From being firmly in the driver 's seat with three matches to go , the Shane Watson-led side inexplicably found a way to slip down to fifth spot. They had multiple chances to make the cut even in their final league game at the Wankhede stadium but somehow let it all slip. Their rivals to the playoff berth , Mumbai Indians needed to chase down an improbable 190 in 14.3 overs to go through at RR 's expense. Easy for Royals , one would think. Except , Mumbai Indians were n't going to lie down and get rolled over , not in front of their home fans. Led by a belligerent Corey Anderson ( 95 off 44 ) , MI gnawed large chunks of the total away until they required 9 off 3 balls ( for qualification ) to be bowled by Death Overs specialist - James Faulkner. The left-armer after restricting Anderson to just a single served up a juicy full-toss to Ambati Rayudu who swatted it away for a six. Rayudu then ran himself out off the third ball while attempting a second run meaning that the scores were tied as of ball 14.3. After calculations , it was understood that MI needed to score a boundary off the next ball to get their NRR above that of RR. Aditya Tare , facing his first ball , was offered a generous full toss on leg-stump which he duly belted behind backward square for a six , sparking wild celebrations. Amidst the hullabaloo of the Mumbai players was the sight of a visibly disappointed RR mentor , Rahul Dravid who threw his cap in disgust before regaining his composure . 2. The Steyn remover While it is well known that Dale Steyn is n't the same bowler with the white ball as he is with the red , his reputation of being a fast bowler extraordinaire precedes him against most opposition , even in IPL. Against friend , confidante and national teammate AB de Villiers however , Steyn 's white ball abilities have come a cropper. Twice. In the 2014 encounter between RCB and SRH , de Villiers ' calculated onslaught on his South African teammate helped RCB pull off a stunning victory. With RCB requiring 28 off the final two overs , Steyn stepped up to bowl the crucial 19th over to close the game out for SRH. De Villiers was on 62 off 34 and the last remaining hope for RCB. He put on his Superman cape. First ball , slower off-cutter , lapped over square leg for six. Second ball , fuller , hit over sight-screen for six. A couple of singles and then a lofted off-drive for four followed by the most outrageous cricket shot - a shuffle outside off-stump and scoop over fine-leg for six. 24 runs off the over and the game was sealed. Such was the quality of de Villiers ' improvisation that even Steyn could n't stop himself from applauding his destroyer. At the end of the game , the two embraced mid-pitch creating a golden IPL moment . 1. MS , the man possessed © BCCI The third season of IPL saw perennial powerhouses Chennai Super Kings get off to a sluggish start in the tournament. At one stage of the tournament , the Chennai outfit slipped to four consecutive defeats jeopardizing their semi-final aspirations. Their final league encounter , against Kings XI Punjab , at the picturesque Dharamsala stadium was a do-or-die affair. KXIP , led by Shaun Marsh 's belligerent 88 racked up a mammoth 192. Despite losing openers Murali Vijay and Matthew Hayden early , CSK kept the asking rate under check thanks to quickfire innings from Suresh Raina and S. Badrinath. A flurry of boundaries from the skipper Dhoni meant CSK needed 16 off the last over to qualify for the semis. Irfan Pathan was handed the responsibility of having to bowl the crucial over. He started with a wide full delivery that Dhoni muscled past the sweeper cover fielder for four. Pathan should have had Dhoni off the next ball when he got his leading edge with a slower delivery but the ball did n't carry to the on-rushing long off fielder , Piyush Chawla. A fumble ensued Dhoni picked up two and retained strike. 10 off 4. The next ball , a length delivery , was ferociously dispatched out of the stadium. With four required off three , ice-man Dhoni launched another six over long-on to complete a thrilling win. Following the win , even as the rest of the CSK players marched onto the field in celebration , the cameras zoomed in on Dhoni , now resembling a boxer after a bout. The skipper was seen murmuring to himself and then delivered an uppercut to himself so as to pinch him awake from the trance. Unforgettable . © Cricbuzz
