Watson : Our side has world-class match-winners Tue , Apr 07 2015 Last updated on Wednesday , 08 April , 2015 , 12 : 22 PM The Rajasthan Royals skipper is depending on a whole lot of match-winners in his side to propel the franchise 's fortunes Shane Watson : We need to hit the ground running © BCCI Rajasthan Royals skipper Shane Watson believes the availability of fellow Australians Steven Smith and James Faulkner gives the side a big advantage in the 2015 IPL. Watson , 33 , also played down the possibility of being under pressure that comes with having a star-studded line-up . " I do n't think it adds more pressure. I think it 's just very exciting , " Watson said on Monday. " In the squad that we have got this IPL season , we have match-winners all the way , more than in the past. We have world-class match-winners as well . " The most important thing in the IPL is to get off to a good start and we know we have to hit the ground running. But we know we have the players capable of doing that. " Ever since they emerged victorious in the first edition of the IPL , RR have blown hot and cold. Their next best performance came in 2013 when their journey was cut short one game away from the final. Last year , they had an inconsistent campaign and finished fifth. Despite bringing in some fresh coating this season , RR continue to rely heavily on their Australian imports . " We have a good team. It is well balanced. We have batsmen batting as low as No. 7 and 8 , " Watson said. " We have allrounders in the line-up like myself and James Faulkner. We also have Dhawal Kulkarni in the team , so we have a balanced team. But at the same time , I will say that all eight teams are good. There are one or two areas that all can improve on or are critical areas , but all teams are good . " Even if you have a good team you have to play good as well. They are high-pressure , high-intensity games and the team that does well in those close situations wins more matches in this tournament. We are very happy with our team but we do know that whoever we play against will also be a good team. " As far as the Indian section of the side is concerned , Ajinkya Rahane is likely to open the batting. Rahane , who for almost four months , has been playing opposite Watson , has drawn praise from his skipper. " Ajinkya batted extremely well during the summer in Australia. Like every player , as you go ahead you become a better player , a more experienced player , " Watson said of Rahane . " Even though we played against each other during the Test series and ODIs , it was very exciting ( to watch him bat ) . Batting as incredibly as he is at this moment , it is [ going to be ] incredible to watch. He has got so much time and has got such a range of shots even in Australian conditions where there was bounce. I am very excited about Ajinkya and how he is going to perform in this IPL because he is a crucial batsman in our batting line-up. It should be a great season for him. " Meanwhile , Smith expects Indian fans to accept and cheer him on. Smith has been India 's biggest nemesis over the past summer scoring 769 runs at an average of 128.17 in Tests. Furthermore , his 105 in the semi-final knocked India out of the World Cup. " I am hopeful that at least Rajasthan Royals fans will support me and I can have another good season here , " Smith told Mid-Day in an interview . " I have really enjoyed being involved in the IPL. It 's been a great learning experience. I got the exposure to the sub-continent conditions. It is nice to be playing with and against the best players all around the world and learning from them . " Another positive is that you face the same situations again and again. You play competitive matches quite close to each other. You might not do the right thing one day , but you face the same situation again and you might succeed then. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
