A decisive season for IPL Bengaluru , Tue , Apr 07 2015 by Kaushik Rangarajan Last updated on Tuesday , 07 April , 2015 , 09 : 18 AM It 's that time of the year when regionalism trumps national sentiments for the Indian cricket fan Into its eighth season now , the six-week extravaganza that is the Indian Premier League has grown by leaps and bounds The IPL is in its adolescence stage. It needs to be understood , cared for and allowed to express its potential. © BCCL As Danny Morrison would say - " The carnival is upon us " . It 's that time of the year when regionalism trumps national sentiments for the Indian cricket fan. Into its eighth season now , the six-week extravaganza that is the Indian Premier League has grown by leaps and bounds. For a tournament that started merely as a BCCI ploy to oust it 's anti-establishment predecessor , Indian Cricket League ( ICL ) , the IPL has gone on to establish itself as a leading brand with an estimated value of around $ 4.8 billion ( as of 2010 ) . Such has been its impact that as many as four full-fledged T20 leagues have crept up in other cricketing nations . The cricket , despite not being of the highest level - excusable considering it is primarily a tournament to unearth raw potential , has been good enough to captivate the world audience. However , in the last four years , the IPL has experienced both exciting highs and depressing lows. From scaling highs like becoming the first tournament of its kind to sign a media deal with YouTube , IPL has found itself embroiled in wide-ranging controversies of corruption and mismanagement. The calls for a quick clean-up of the muck have forced a section of cricket 's patrons into calling for the league to be shut down. Such a knee-jerk reaction can only be regressive in the bigger scheme of things. Which is precisely why the upcoming season could make or break the perception of the entire tournament . Like in the Terminator movies , if the future of the tournament were to travel back in time , it would most certainly visit 2015. For the IPL now stands at a crossroads from where it must choose its own destiny. A controversy-free season with oodles of on-field cricketing entertainment will do , both the BCCI and the IPL , a world of good after the murk of the past two seasons. Considering that most team rights , television and media rights and sponsorship rights face renewal in two years ' time ( team rights granted for a period of 10 years before the inaugural season ) , brand IPL would do well to stage a couple of clean seasons so as to keep the interests in the tournament alive . Is a 'controversy-free ' tournament too much to ask for in a league with as many stakeholders and followers as the IPL ? Certainly not. For starters , the off-field controversies can be significantly minimised through a carefully regimented policy involving transparency and thorough diligence. In a nutshell , the tournament must ensure that quick entertainment and big bucks do n't override the essence and ethos of sport and competition , the gentleman 's game prides itself in upholding . Rahul Dravid , widely respected Indian cricketer and current mentor of the controversy-shrouded Rajasthan Royals franchise , hits the nail on the head when he speaks about individuals , at a player level , taking responsibilities to weed out the nagging nuisance of fixing. In a bottom-up approach , the franchises must then ensure that the protocols laid down by the tournament 's Anti-Corruption and Security Unit are adhered to at all times. The administration ( BCCI , the IPL governing council and the extended body ) should then focus on the smooth operation of the tournament while ensuring that they do not create problems themselves . Even from a cricketing point of view , 2015 marks a decisive year in the shaping of IPL 's future. A tightly packed international schedule means the tournament starts barely a week after the culmination of the Cricket World Cup. Amid the controversies , the league faces potentially its biggest concern - spectator burnout. While marketing professionals remain keen on stressing that no amount of cricket can be enough for the Indian consumer , it must be remembered that the 2011 edition ( IPL 's fourth season ) faced a dip in television ratings for the first time since the tournament 's inception because of its scheduling immediately after the World Cup in the subcontinent. It took a Chris Gayle to be flown in and hit a blistering century against his former employers midway through the tournament to rekindle interest. The current season will do well to get a similar moment early on in the tournament . The IPL is in its adolescence stage. It needs to be understood , cared for and allowed to express its potential. In just seven years since inception , it dares to match the commercial interests of even mega leagues like the English Premier League , established almost 16 years before it. The IPL generates an employment opportunity for over 20,000 professionals ( outside of cricket ) with a direct average salary of Rs 15000 per month. Even the country 's other mass employer - the film industry , has acknowledged its entertainment and commercial value. It will be imprudent to pull the handbrake now and instead , efforts must be reinforced towards administration efficiency , stricter punishments and education of players . Eventually , the tournament should be able to look back and reflect on how its all-round success was a direct reflection of the quality of cricket , the players it attracted and its potential-to-performance conversion. Should that happen , the entire chapter on IPL 's scandals will become but a footnote to its glorious success. The 2015 season has the potential to set it moving in that direction. Let the games begin . © Cricbuzz
