There can never be a backup for Sunil Narine : Gautam Gambhir Tue , Apr 07 2015 Last updated on Tuesday , 07 April , 2015 , 10 : 33 AM © BCCI Sunil Narine has been Kolkata Knight Riders ' ( KKR ) , and in fact Indian Premier League 's ( IPL ) , best bowler ever since he started playing for Gautam Gambhir 's side in 2012. His superb performances in KKR 's colours have helped his side end up IPL champions twice in three years. Now with KKR seeking their third IPL title , Gambhir said Narine will always be his side 's main weapon and that there can be no back-up for the West Indian mystery spinner . " He 's an integral part of KKR , he will always be an integral part... Even if he bowls a straight ball , he will be an asset for us and will always remain an asset. That 's the confidence we have in Sunil ( Narine ) . We never thought that we needed a back-up spinner for him , " Gambhir said when asked whether they strengthened their spin line-up in the auction with suspense prevailing over the Trinidadian . " There can never be a backup for Sunil. I always maintain even if he bowls a straight bowl it will be an advantage. That 's the aura he has had over the opposition over the last three years. " Narine was reported for suspect action in last season 's Champions League T20 and went on to miss the recently concluded ICC Cricket World Cup. He went back to the nets to rework his action and was cleared by International Cricket Council ( ICC ) after his bio-mechanical test in Loughborough. Board of Control for Cricket in Indian ( BCCI ) , however , took a retest at the the Sri Ramachandra University in Chennai. He got a clean chit and was given the green signal to bowl on Sunday , three days before the start of IPL . On their 2.4 crore acquisition in KC Cariappa , another mystery spinner , who 's yet to play a Ranji Trophy match , Gambhir said : " We have never picked him thinking that he will be a match-winner for us. We wanted to groom and develop him alongside Sunil for the betterment of Indian cricket. He 's young as well. He 'll learn a lot from Sunil. I am yet to see him in a match so I do n't know whether he would be a game changer. But obviously he 's different. We will see over the course of time , how he shapes up along with Kuldeep Yadav. Hopefully , they will play a big role , " said Gambhir . " The strategy to pick little known players like KC Cariappa and Kuldeep Yadav was to groom them alongside senior pros like Narine and Brad Hogg. They were never for back-up. Yes , we want different spinners , and we have based out the entire team on that because if you see most of the wickets in India turn and start gripping especially in the later half of the tournament. That 's the strategy . " At the same time it would be nice to have spinners who can always complement Sunil. ( For ) someone like Cariappa , Suryakumar Yadav and Kuldeep Yadav to have Sunil and Brad Hogg around them , will always help. It will help develop Indian cricket. People and commentators talk a lot about the franchises- how it 's about walking the talk and we have done that. We do n't want people to talk about us , we would rather show it for the better of Indian cricket. I think we have done that pretty well over the last few years and we 'll continue to do that. It 's about developing off the field as well , " he concluded . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
