Hussey : IPL brings world-class players together New Delhi , Wed , Apr 08 2015 by Rohit E David Last updated on Wednesday , 08 April , 2015 , 08 : 27 AM After spending the previous season with Mumbai Indians , Hussey is back with the side he 's had tremendous success with © TNN Michael Hussey , former Australian cricketer , will be seen with Chennai Super Kings as season eight of IPL kicks off. Speaking with Times Of India , Hussey discussed what works and what does n't for IPL , his strategy for the tournament , Australia 's most prized wickets and why he admires MS Dhoni as a leader . What will be your strategy for IPL 's upcoming season ? My plan would be to contribute in whatever way I can to the team 's success. I 'm delighted to be back with Chennai Super Kings. One of the reasons for the team 's success is our philosophy. I 'm keen to make sure I can support the team , on the field or off it throughout the campaign . You 've switched gears from playing for Australia. What 's more difficult - playing at WACA or on Chennai 's spinning wicket ? Well , I 've grown up playing at the WACA ground in Perth. I enjoy the pace and bounce the wicket has to offer . What does Australia prefer ­ setting or chasing a target ? We traditionally liked to set targets.However , this seems to be changing with the growth of T20 . Whose wicket was the most prized for the Australians - Sachin Tendulkar , VVS Laxman or Rahul Dravid ? Sachin [ Tendulkar ] has always been the prized wicket. Depending on the series , any of the three wickets are great to have . Critics often blame IPL for making cricket corrupt and commercial - What 's your view ? I do n't want to get into that debate. I love playing in IPL and think the cricket and players are fantastic. It is a shame that the actions of a couple of people can tarnish a great game and tournament . Sachin Tendulkar reportedly said there 's a need to increase World Cup teams from 10 to 25 - is there a need to increase the IPL teams from 8 as well ? I have no idea. There have been some great rivalries built between teams. If it 's viable on a number of levels , then it could be increased . How hard is it for players from different countries , previously against each other , to gel as one unit in IPL ? It 's great. That 's one of the things about IPL I love , getting to know different players from around the world . You 'll be playing alongside MS Dhoni in CSK. Describe him as a leader ? Dhoni is a very consistent character , whether the team is doing well or not. That is the sign of a man with great character . Who 's the best Australian captain you 've seen and where do you rate Michael Clarke in this category ? This is very difficult to answer as there is more to captaincy than what happens on the field . What are your thoughts on Steven Smith ? Steven is a wonderful all-round prospect for Australia. He 's extremely versatile and a strong leader. I feel he plays all forms of the game intelligently . MS Dhoni reportedly suggested Mike Hussey as the best man to replace chief India coach Duncan Fletcher. Would you take up the offer ? That is flattering to hear , but I asked Dhoni about this and he said he 's said no such thing. So , I do n't know where that 's come from . © TNN
