David Miller : I have improved as a batsman thanks to IPL Wed , Apr 08 2015 Last updated on Wednesday , 08 April , 2015 , 01 : 49 PM KXIP made it to the final of the tournament for the first time last year and Miller feels they have the right squad to back up that performance The secret of KXIP 's success , according to Miller , is the ability of the team to rise up to the challenge David Miller is looking forward to another productive season with KXIP. © BCCI South Africa 's left-handed batsman David Miller has credited his stint with Kings XI Punjab for his career up-swing , mentioning that the time he has spent with the franchise " has made him a better batsman. " Miller , who came into the limelight following his spectacular 38-ball hundred for KXIP against RCB during the 2013 edition of Indian Premier League , is looking forward to another productive season with the franchise . " I feel I have improved as a batsman. I have learnt to do the right things and that adds to my confidence. But I wo n't call myself a finished product. I am still lucky to be learning everyday in my endeavour to get better. IPL is a big tournament and performing for KXIP gives me a huge high. Over the past few seasons , I have learnt to assess various situations and play accordingly , " said Miller , who is set to feature in his third season for KXIP . KXIP made it to the final of the tournament for the first time last year and Miller feels they have the right squad to back up that performance. " The key will be about sticking to the basics. Our advantage is having the same team. It helps in preparing the strategy as you know the strengths of your team. We have to follow up our last year 's performance with an even stronger show this time. We will also have to manage our training sessions well. " Apart from Miller , other South Africans like AB de Villiers , Faf du Plessis and JP Duminy will be plying their trade with their respective franchises. Miller did not prefer to be drawn into any comparisons with his fellow players. " AB and Faf have both performed really well in IPL over the years but I am focussing on my own game-plan. I wish both of them well for their respective franchises. I do n't want to put myself under any undue pressure with comparisons. " Miller , who had a decent World Cup with an aggregate of 324 runs in eight matches , including a century against Zimbabwe , is hopeful that he can extend his good form. " I am really confident about my form and hope to do well , but then cricket is a funny game. For me , the key will be to remain switched on in every single game , follow my own game-plan and the will to do well. " The secret of KXIP 's success , according to Miller , is the ability of the team to rise up to the challenge. " If you see our team , win or lose , we have always been competitive in the last two seasons. Kings XI Punjab is always ready for a good scrap. The spirit has been amazing and our ability to fight till finish has been the stand-out thing for the franchise , " Miller said . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
