Johnson looks forward to de Villiers challenge Wed , Apr 08 2015 Last updated on Wednesday , 08 April , 2015 , 03 : 05 PM Johnson , who took 15 wickets in Australia 's World Cup win last month , is confident switching formats in such a short time wo n't be an issue Johnson will again spearhead King XI Punjab 's bowling attack. © BCCL There is almost a month to pass before Kings XI Punjab could take on Royal Challengers Bangalore but fast bowler Mitchell Johnson is already looking forward to bowling against AB de Villiers who he thinks is the best batsman in the world . " I think the most difficult batsman to bowl to is AB de Villiers. He has been quite incredible in the last two years. He has excelled as the best player across most formats. For me it has always been a challenge to bowl to AB and a lot of guys love the challenge of bowling to him. Having said that , any quality batsman can have a good day in T20 format , " the KXIP spearhead said on Wednesday . KXIP start their IPL campaign against Rajasthan Royals on Friday and Johnson , who took 15 wickets in Australia 's World Cup win , is confident switching formats in such a short time wo n't be an issue . " I do n't think there would be any change of plans while switching from ODIs to T20 format. If you see , we played World Cup final a week ago and now we will be playing in the IPL and once it 's over , we will be switching to Test cricket in the West Indies. So it 's one format rolled into another. One needs to adjust very fast , " he said . Johnson bowled at an incredible pace in last year 's Ashes and even in the World Cup there were quite a few times when he breathed fire. The left-armer believes fast deliveries will also be relevant in the T20 tournament , even on pitches not conducive to fast bowling. " I think if you are able to bowl 140 kmph-plus and pitch it in right areas , it will be difficult for any batsman to face that type of delivery. Well the game has become fast and a lot of runs are being scored . " In these scenario , a fast bowler needs to be smart and have a lot of change-ups. He should be able to bowl the yorkers. In the end , it 's all about adapting to conditions . " I believe that there will be more exciting games this time with a bigger number of 200 plus totals. But one ca n't underestimate the bowlers as they have become smarter. " © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
