Two-time champs CSK eye winning start against re-jigged DD Wed , Apr 08 2015 Last updated on Thursday , 09 April , 2015 , 02 : 05 PM Two-time champions Chennai Super Kings will be keen to put controversies behind and get their campaign off to a successful start JP Duminy , along with Yuvraj , Mathews , Kedar Jadhav and Manoj Tiwary form the nucleus of a solid Daredevils middle order While cricket in Chennai is back , as is Dwayne Bravo , who had to miss last year 's tournament after an injury in the first game itself. © BCCL Indian Premier League returns to the MA Chidambaram stadium in Chennai after a lengthy break when home-team Chennai Super Kings take the field on April 9. While N Srinivasan 's conflict of interest issue and Gurunath Meiyappan 's involvement in the betting and spot-fixing controversy was the main point of focus in media recently , the two-time champions will be keen to put that on the back-seat and get their campaign off to a successful start . Their opponents are Delhi Daredevils , who made drastic changes to their personnel after a couple of disastrous seasons which saw them finish twice at the bottom of the table. With a new skipper in JP Duminy and experienced players like Yuvraj Singh , Zaheer Khan and Angelo Mathews , the Gary Kirsten-coached Delhi side will be eager to start afresh . Venue : MA Chidambaram stadium , Chennai Date : April 9 , 2015 Time : 20 : 00 IST Weather : Clear skies have been forecast while the temperatures will be around the 30 degree C mark with a high humidity of 79-82 % Team news Chennai Super Kings Under the able leadership of Mahendra Singh Dhoni , Chennai Super Kings have been the most successful team of IPL , with a win percentage close to 61. They have a tried and tested line-up which has served the team well over the years. Brendon McCullum , who joined CSK last year , had a good outing in 2014 and he will be the one the team will bank on for fiery starts. While McCullum was in superb form in the recently-concluded World Cup and will be expected to extend his fine run , the same can not be said of his opening partner Dwayne Smith , who looked out of touch in the multi-team event. Smith might have been one of the top run-getters for CSK last year , but his performance will be under scrutiny and unless he gets going in the initial few matches , the experienced Michael Hussey could get the nod over the West Indian opener . CSK boast of a formidable middle order with the presence of Faf du Plessis , Suresh Raina and Dhoni , along with quality allrounders like Dwayne Bravo and Ravindra Jadeja. Du Plessis , Raina and Dhoni came up with solid performances in the World Cup , but Jadeja was below-par while Bravo was left out of the West Indian team for the event . In the bowling department , Mohit Sharma , who also bowled well in the World Cup , will be Chennai 's bowling spearhead while the other pace options include South African allrounder Kyle Abbott , New Zealand 's Matt Henry as well as Indian bowlers like Ashish Nehra and Irfan Pathan . Chennai also have a quality spin attack - R Ashwin will play the leader of the pack , which also has Jadeja , legspinners Samuel Badree and Rahul Sharma , and left-arm spinner Pawan Negi , who was the Man of the Match when CSK lifted the Champions League T20 title last year . Probable XI : Brendon McCullum , Dwayne Smith , Suresh Raina , Faf du Plessis , Dwayne Bravo , MS Dhoni , Mithun Manhas/Pawan Negi , Ravindra Jadeja , R Ashwin , Ashish Nehra , Mohit Sharma Delhi Daredevils Ever since their table-topping performance in 2012 , things have gone downhill for Delhi Daredevils. After finishing last in two successive years , an overhaul was in order as Delhi decided to release as many as 13 players , including big names such as Kevin Pietersen , Ross Taylor , Dinesh Karthik and Murali Vijay , ahead of the 2015 auction. After the bidding wars , they got hold of Yuvraj for a record sum of Rs 16 crore , and also bagged the services of experienced players like Zaheer , Mathews and Amit Mishra , along with a host of talented domestic and overseas names . Skipper Duminy , along with Yuvraj , Mathews , Kedar Jadhav and Manoj Tiwary form the nucleus of a solid middle order. However , Mathews wo n't be available for the first game because of a ban on Sri Lankan players by the Tamil Nadu government. Delhi are likely to go in with Quinton de Kock as the opener , while one of Saurabh Tiwary , CM Gautam or Mayank Agarwal is likely to partner him. Shreyas Iyer , who had a terrific Ranji season and also impressed in Delhi 's practice matches , is in the reckoning as well . Daredevils ' bowling department is their strong suit with the presence of Mohammed Shami and Nathan Coulter-Nile , along with experienced spinners in Mishra and Imran Tahir. Shami , though , is doubtful for the opening game as he is nursing a knee problem. Zaheer , who will also play the role of a bowling mentor , may not be drafted in straight away as he is not fully fit. With two key Indians bowlers likely to miss the opening game , Domnic Joseph or Jaydev Unadkat might get an opportunity . Probable XI : Quinton de Kock , Saurabh Tiwary , Shreyas Iyer , Yuvraj Singh , JP Duminy , Kedar Jadhav , Manoj Tiwary , Amit Mishra , Nathan Coulter-Nile , Domnic Joseph , Imran Tahir Numbers 10 : The number of IPL matches CSK have won against Delhi Daredevils till date. Chennai have ended up on the losing side four times against Delhi . 3325 : The number of runs Suresh Raina has scored in the IPL so far. He was the first of two players to cross 3000 runs . Quotes : " We have a trend reviving older players. Nehra still has some life left. People focus on youth. But I like experience. Nehra and Hussey are key components in our side. The knowledge they can pass on is immense. The MS Dhoni and Raina factor will be crucial. I like their work and attitude. " - CSK coach Stephen Fleming is optimistic about his senior players . " I am excited by the calibre of players we have season. A lot of teams are quite settled and structured. But it is exciting to think that new team can bring in new energy " - JP Duminy expects DD to be a force to reckon with . © Cricbuzz Tags
