Kolkata Knight Riders batsmen star in easy chase Wed , Apr 08 2015 by Vineet Ramakrishnan Last updated on Thursday , 09 April , 2015 , 07 : 13 AM Guatam Gambhir ( 57 ) helped his team to a successful run-chase , after rival captain Rohit Sharma 's blistering knock of 98 off 65 balls Suryakumar Yadav scored an unbeaten 46 off 20 balls. © BCCI The opening fixture of the eighth edition of Indian Premier League ( IPL ) played at the Eden Gardens , Kolkata between defending champions Kolkata Knight Riders ( KKR ) and Mumbai Indians boiled down to the battle of the captains , and it was KKR skipper Gautam Gambhir ( 57 ) who came out on top , helping his team to a successful run-chase , after rival captain Rohit Sharma 's blistering knock of 98 off 65 balls . After being reduced to 37 for 3 , Rohit had stepped up in big fashion helping his team to a total of 168 , but KKR , who have been rather good in chasing targets , extended their winning streak in IPL to ten , beating MI by seven wickets with nine balls to spare . After losing last season 's highest run-getter Robin Uthappa ( 9 ) early to Corey Anderson , Gambhir and Manish Pandey built a solid base for the run-chase with a partnership of 85 runs for the second wicket off 55 balls. The duo were assisted by some shoddy fielding by MI. Gambhir , whose bat was broken by a Vinay Kumar length ball earlier , was dropped by wicketkeeper Aditya Tare in the second over , while Pandey got a life at long-on when Anderson misjudged his back-foot hoist under lights . While Gambhir in his usual manner dabbed the ball around for singles early in his innings , Pandey took centrestage and went after the bowlers scoring 40 runs off 24 balls. Rohit held back his trump card Lasith Malinga for the slog overs , as the Sri Lankan bowled only one over in the first ten overs. That gave KKR the opportunity to go for runs and the batting duo did exactly that with considerable success against the likes of Jaspirt Bumrah , Anderson and Pragyan Ojha . When it looked like Pandey and Gambhir would take the game away from MI , Harbhajan Singh had Pandey sweeping straight down the throat of Kieron Pollard at long-on. In walked Suryakumar Yadav and he flicked the second ball he faced off Vinay over long leg for a six. Gambhir , at the other end , played with conviction and looked at ease against the spinners , before Bumrah scalped the big wicket of the KKR skipper , who mistimed a pull to deep square leg. It was now Yadav 's turn to take the lead and he did that in style with some sublime hitting. The 24-year-old took 20 runs off one Bumrah over , including three big sixes to tip the scales in KKR 's favour . With the equation down to 18 off 18 , Malinga came in to bowl his final over. Yusuf Pathan whipped a short ball to the boundary and Yadav killed the game by hoisting the Sri Lankan over the long-on fence. Yadav went on to hit the winning runs in the penultimate over of the match to hand KKR the opening victory . Earlier , Morne Morkel ( 2 for 18 ) had kick-started IPL 2015 the same way he had left the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 with an aggressive brand of fast bowling that had MI batsmen in deep trouble early on , before Rohit and Anderson ( 55 * ) weathered the early storm and cut loose in the slog overs taking their team to a total of 168 for 3 in 20 overs . After winning the toss , KKR had taken the early advantage , but Rohit looked in ominous touch and he took three boundaries off one Umesh Yadav over and despite wickets falling at the other end , the 27-year-old did n't look flustered . In the company of Anderson , who had a slow start , Rohit put on 131 runs off 14.4 overs for the fourth wicket as MI took 92 runs in the last seven overs. Sunil Narine ( 0 for 28 ) , with a slight change in action , looked a shadow of his former self , as the batting duo went on to steady the innings. Rohit then opened up in the 15th over bowled by Umesh and took 21 runs. With impeccable timing , Rohit hit three fours and a six over long-on in that over and completed his fifty off 46 balls . Narine , who had given away 15 runs in his three overs , foxed Rohit with a legbreak with his first delivery of the final over but wicketkeeper Uthappa failed to hold on to a tough catch. The missed chanced cost KKR heavily as Rohit swept the next ball for a boundary , followed by a huge six over deep square leg . Andre Russell , who had dropped Anderson earlier in the outfield , was taken to the cleaners with Rohit hitting him for two consecutive sixes. The final over bowled by Shakib Al Hasan cost 20 runs with Anderson hitting two sixes and Rohit one boundary. Unfortunately that meant Rohit was left two short of a well deserved century . Brief Scores : Mumbai Indians 168/3 in 20 overs ( Rohit Sharma 98 * , Corey Anderson 55 * ; Morne Morkel 2/18 ) lost to Kolkata Knight Riders 170/3 in 18.3 overs ( Gautam Gambhir 57 , Suryakumar Yadav 46 * ; Corey Anderson 1/21 ) by seven wickets . © Cricbuzz Tags
