Gambhir happy with comfortable KKR chase Wed , Apr 08 2015 Last updated on Thursday , 09 April , 2015 , 05 : 09 AM Gambhir had special praise for Suryakumar who made 46 * off 20 balls. © BCCI Kolkata Knight Riders captain Gautam Gambhir was a satisfied man in the wake his team 's seven-wicket win against Mumbai Indians in the IPL 2015 opener at the Eden Gardens on Wednesday. The defending champions managed to restrict MI to a below-par 168 for 3 thanks to fast bowler Morne Morkel 's 2 for 18. KKR chased down the target in 18.3 overs with Gambhir ( 57 ) , Manish Pandey ( 40 ) , Suryakumar Yadav ( 46 * off 20 balls ) all playing important hands. For Gambhir , his team ticked all the boxes . " I think credit should go to the entire unit. It was a tough total to chase and the way we chased , it was great. It was a very good wicket , but we never knew how it was going to behave. It was a pretty new wicket in Kolkata and the way Morne bowled , it was exceptional , " Gambhir said at the post-match presentation . Gambhir had special praise for Suryakumar whose extravagant hitting towards the end went a long way towards securing KKR their 10th consecutive win. " Suryakumar Yadav as I said during the toss , he is an important player and he showed us why it was right to make him the vice-captain today before the game , " Gambhir said . Meanwhile , MI captain Rohit Sharma , whose 98 * off 65 balls helped the team reach a respectable total from 37 for 3 , admitted bowling failure. " The kind of wicket it was , we were probably 10-15 runs short. We should have done better with the ball though. We did n't execute our plans well. Let 's hope the guys can pick up from this and come out in a positive manner , " Rohit said . Talking about the pitch , Rohit added : " The pace was good. The wicket was very good. It is a trend in Kolkata as the pitch is always good to bat. We just have to go back and need to make a good comeback. [ It ] does n't please to be on the losing side , but let 's hope the guys will learn from them. Once we go back to Mumbai , we will figure things out. " © Cricbuzz Tags
