Kings XI begin campaign on new home ground Bengaluru , Thu , Apr 09 2015 Last updated on Thursday , 09 April , 2015 , 06 : 46 PM Maxwell and Johnson will once again be crucial for KXIP A fresh start and another chance to get it right for Punjab and Rajasthan. Two teams , with a history of attracting most number of neutral supporters , have had success elude them for a long time. While Rajasthan have tapered off somewhat after winning the inaugral edition of Indian Premier League , Kings XI have been given a new lease of life under the George Bailey-Sanjay Bangar regime and are on their way up. Unlike some of the other teams in the competition , both KXIP and RR have settled on a core group of players on whom the fortunes of the team depend and therefore played a largely subdued role in the pre-season auction. The fact that Punjab play their home game in Pune , instead of Mohali , is likely to offset any advantage they may have had going into their opening encounter . Venue : Maharashtra Cricket Association Stadium , Pune Date : April 10 , 2015 Weather : Clear skies have been forecast with 68 % humidity . Kings XI Punjab KXIP have arguably the most explosive batting order in the tournament. In Virender Sehwag , Glenn Maxwell , David Miller , they have three proven match-winners with an ability to change the game on its head , especially in the T20 format. Murali Vijay 's signing adds meat to the top-order. The Test-match regular will look to put in some solid performances and get back in the reckoning for a spot in the limited overs national side as well. Manan Vohra and Wriddhiman Saha , who shared an excellent partnership , in the IPL final in 2014 complete the formidable batting line up. The Mitchell Johnson-led bowling attack creates a fine balance for the team. While emerging player of IPL 7 , Axar Patel , is a shoo-in as the leading spinner , the KXIP management face their biggest selection quandary in selecting their Indian medium pacers. Shardul Thakur , Parvinder Awana and Sandeep Sharma will fight for the remaining two places in the side . Probable XI : Virender Sehwag , Murali Vijay , Manan Vohra , Glenn Maxwell , George Bailey ( c ) , David Miller , Wriddhiman Saha ( wk ) , Mitchell Johnson , Axar Patel , Shardul Thakur , Sandeep Sharma/Parvinder Awana Rajasthan Royals Much like their opponents , Rajasthan Royals sport a fairly settled look about them. While Ajinkya Rahane 's stocks as an international cricketer has grown by leaps and bounds since the last tournament , the team 's performances will largely depend on how the troika of Shane Watson , Steve Smith and James Faulkner fare. Much hinges on where skipper Watson chooses to bat. Will the presence of an in-form Steve Smith in the middle-order force Watson to take his place at the top of the order ? RR will also hope that promising keeper-batsman Sanju Samson , who had a breakthrough season in 2013 before fading away slightly last year , has a solid season. Kiwi pacer Tim Southee will lead a bowling attack that 'll once again be dominated by medium-paced all-rounders - Faulkner , Stuart Binny and Watson. The 43-year young Pravin Tambe should once again take over lead-spinning duties . Probable XI : Ajinkya Rahane , Karun Nair , Shane Watson ( c ) , Steve Smith , Sanju Samson ( wk ) , James Faulkner , Stuart Binny , Abhishek Nayar/Rajat Bhatia , Dhawal Kulkarni , Tim Southee , Pravin Tambe Stats and Trivia - The RR-KXIP match is likely to feature 6 of the recently crowned World Champions , three in either side - Rajasthan Royals lead the 13-match head to head against Kings XI 8-5 Quotes " It 's T20 cricket , full stop. No matter where you are playing and in what conditions , you have to use variations to challenge the batsmen. " - James Faulkner has a simple mantra for doing well in T20s - Variations . © Cricbuzz Tags
