Thu , Apr 09 2015 by Vineet Ramakrishnan Last updated on Thursday , 09 April , 2015 , 07 : 16 PM Ashish Nehra picked three quick wickets to derail DD 's chase. © BCCL Delhi Daredevils had hit the reset button for the second consecutive season , and the revamped team nearly got their act together by first restricting the mighty Chennai Super Kings to 150 for 7 in their opening fixture of IPL 2015 at the MA Chidambaram Stadium , Chepauk , Chennai and then almost chased down the target , courtesy Albie Morkel 's 55-ball 73-run knock , but as has been the case , DD just could not cross the line as the batsmen failed to capitalise on the solid performance put in by the bowlers . Under the new leadership of JP Duminy , DD made the right noises early on riding on a bold team selection by fielding two leg-spinners and Nathan Coulter-Nile 's terrific death bowling to keep CSK to a below-par total , but the MS Dhoni-led team showed why they are the most successful team in the tournament 's history by notching up another thriller. Veteran Ashish Nehra , put his hand up returning with impressive figures of 4-0-25-3 , and ably assisted by Ravichandran Ashwin ( 4-0-25-1 ) and Dwayne Bravo ( 4-0-36-2 ) , CSK came out on top once again , but not before former CSK-man Morkel gave them a big scare . With 14 required off the last three balls , Morkel , hit a big six over midwicket and then ran two to bring down the equation to six runs off the last ball. Morkel swatted the full delivery towards long-off for a boundary much to the dismay of DD camp , as they fell short by one run . However despite Morkel 's valiant innings , the failures of DD 's marquee players - Yuvraj Singh ( 9 ) and Duminy ( 5 ) - cost them dear. DD had opted to play three uncapped players in their top-order - something not many IPL team would have tried - and even though they played some gusty shots , the trio of Mayank Agarwal ( 15 ) , CM Gautam ( 4 ) and the highly-rated Shreyas Iyer ( 7 ) succumbed to the pressure applied by Nehra to leave their team tottering at 39 for 3 . Much to the surprise , domestic heavyweight Kedar Jadhav walked in ahead of Yuvraj and Duminy and he , along with Morkel , steadied the innings in the middle overs. Similar to how DD spinners had curtailed the run-flow earlier in the match , Ashwin , fresh off a good World Cup campaign , sustained the pressure . Morkel , who was promoted up the order , probably as a pinch-hitter , donned the role of the sheet anchor and managed to rotate the strike to keep the scorecard ticking. Jadhav ( 20 ) and Morkel combined for a 48-run stand for the fourth wicket , but Jadhav 's soft dismissal off Mohit Sharma gave CSK the opening. Yuvraj failed to keep a short one from Bravo down and handed a simple catch to midwicket and Duminy , coming in to bat at number seven , had too much to do and played one on to his stumps to depart in the 16th over . Morkel though continued to fight on and took the game to the last ball of the match , but in vain . Earlier , courtesy leg-spinners Imran Tahir ( 1/27 ) and Amit Mishra 's ( 1/21 ) miserly spell of spin bowling ( 48 runs off 8 overs ) DD had restricted CSK to 150 for 7. Coulter-Nile ( 3/30 ) too played a handy role with the ball scalping the big wickets of Brendon McCullum ( 4 ) , Suresh Raina ( 4 ) and then MS Dhoni ( 30 ) in the death overs , after Duminy won the toss and elected to bowl . But , despite losing two quick wickets , opener Dwayne Smith had ensured that CSK scored 59 off the first six. Smith looked in top nick right from the word go , as he smothered three boundaries off the first over bowled by Morkel . Tahir and Mishra then came on to bowl and kept a check on the run-flow bowling some smart variations. Smith , who had hit six boundaries during his knock of 34 was bogged down and in a bid to cut loose , he pounced on a short one from Tahir only to find the hands of Coulter-Nile at deep midwicket . Duminy got the wicket of his South African counterpart du Plessis for 32 , courtesy a fine catch by young Shreyas Iyer at long-off and the wicket of Jadeja ( 15 ) , foxed in the air by Mishra , had CSK under the pump. Yet with MS Dhoni in the middle , CSK would have still hoped for a turnaround , but Maharashtra 's Dominic Joseph trapped Dwayne Bravo for 1 and some excellent death bowling by Coulter-Nile - he managed to bowl four consecutive dot balls to Dhoni in the 18th over - and Tahir meant there was no late flourish from CSK . Brief Scores : Chennai Super Kings 150 for 7 ( Dwayne Smith 34 , Faf du Plessis 32 ; Nathan Coulter-Nile 3/30 ) beat Delhi Daredevils 149 for 9 ( Albie Morkel 73 * ; Ashish Nehra 3/25 , Dwayne Bravo 2/36 ) by one run . © Cricbuzz Tags
