Rajasthan Royals player approached for fixing Fri , Apr 10 2015 Last updated on Friday , 10 April , 2015 , 09 : 58 AM A Mumbai-based Rajasthan Royals player has reportedly been approached by one of the Ranji team-mates for fixing a game. © BCCI With Rajasthan Royals preparing themselves for their first game in the eighth edition of the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) against Kings XI Punjab , reports have emerged that one of their players was approached by a bookie in an attempt to coerce him into fixing a game . A report in The Indian Express says states that a Mumbai-based Rajasthan Royals player was asked by one of his Ranji team-mates if he would be interested in fixing a game ( or a part of it ) in return for money. The player who made the offer , apparently , does not represent any team in the IPL. The RR player refused the offer and reported the approach to a senior official in the franchise , who in turn alerted the IPL Anti-Corruption and Security Unit ( ASCU ) . BCCI secretary Anurag Thakur confirmed that the player had reported the incident to the ACSU. " A player was approached and he immediately intimated BCCI anti-corruption unit. Glad that BCCI education policy [ is ] showing positive results , " Thakur tweeted. " Players are alert and they know what is to be done due to our regular education efforts. " " It was an exploratory kind of approach , but he was shut up immediately [ by the Mumbai player ] , " a BCCI official said. According to the official it is nothing new considering players have now become more vigilant in the aftermath of the 2013 corruption scandal. He also said the education and awareness measures put in place by BCCI 's anti-corruption unit had helped the players understand the modus operandi used by fixers . Royals seems to have once again been caught up in an unwanted fixing controversy. Two years ago , three of its players - S Sreesanth , Ajit Chandila and Ankeet Chavan - were found guilty of spot-fixing. As a result , Sreesanth and Chavan were handed life bans by The Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) . © Cricbuzz ( with inputs from agencies ) Tags
