Virat Kohli hurt , disappointed at media attack New Delhi , Fri , Apr 10 2015 Last updated on Friday , 10 April , 2015 , 10 : 36 AM Kohli said that those people who had made harsh comments should be " ashamed of themselves " . What seems to have irked the Test captain are attacks on his personal life . Virat Kohli made one run off 13 balls during India 's only World Cup loss. © Getty The bitter criticism he faced from sections of the Indian media following his failure during the Indian cricket team 's 2015 ICC World Cup semi-final loss to Australia has left Virat Kohli " disappointed " and " hurt " . Speaking out for the first time about the barrage of vitriol he faced following India 's defeat , Kohli said that those people who had made harsh comments should be " ashamed of themselves " . " After that , to see such reactions after just one poor innings , was very disappointing. I had been consistent for the last five years and to see such reactions for just one match was really disappointing , " Kohli reporters in Kolkata on Friday , ahead of Royal Challengers Bangalore 's IPL 8 match against hosts Kolkata Knight riders. " What it does is it makes you lose faith in a lot of people. It 's a good thing in a way - you get to know who 's with you and who 's not. It was indeed a very difficult , well , not difficult because it 's not in my control. But the reactions were very disappointing. " Following India 's 95-run loss , during which Kohli made one run off 13 balls , there was widespread criticism of him not delivering in a crucial game , but what seems to have irked the Test captain are attacks on his personal life . " At a human level , I would say I was hurt. And the people that said things and the way they were said , they should be ashamed of themselves , " he said . Kohli started the World Cup with a century against Pakistan but was unable to replicate that touch thereafter , scoring 46 , 33 * , 33 , 44 * , 38 , 3 and 1 . Hinting at the criticism he attracted last year in England when he had an awful run in five Tests , Kohli - who will lead India 's Test team with MS Dhoni retired from the format - commented on the media 's reactions to his slumps in form . " I never know when my rough patch comes or when I am in form. It is for you all to decide - you make the judgements better than I do. It is funny because there are some standards a player sets for himself over a period of time and I like to perform consistently , " he said. " So in my case if I do n't do well in two games it is a dip in form whereas for some of the other players they perform two games out of ten they come back in form. I do n't understand that and I do n't really pay attention to it. It is how you hit the ball on that particular day. In my mind I am really more confident than I have been ever in my life. " During the World Cup , when India were stationed in Perth , Kohli had publicly lashed out at an Indian journalist during a practice session in response to a report about wives and girlfriends being allowed to tour England with the team . © Cricbuzz Tags
