Falling wickets forced Morkel to change approach Fri , Apr 10 2015 Last updated on Friday , 10 April , 2015 , 02 : 04 PM Morkel finished unbeaten on 73 from 55 balls , his highest score in T20 cricket during an innings that was far away from his attacking brand of cricket Needing six off the last ball , Morkel crashed it over extra cover but the ball fell a few feet short of the boundary rope Morkel finished unbeaten on 73 from 55 balls , his highest score in T20 cricket. © BCCI Delhi Daredevils nearly pulled off a victory over Chennai Super Kings in their IPL 2015 opener at the MA Chidambaram stadium on Thursday night but fell one run short , thanks in no small part to Albie Morkel , the Delhi Daredevils allrounder , who was promoted to No 3 in order to boost the scoring rate during their chase . Morkel finished unbeaten on 73 from 55 balls , his highest score in T20 cricket during an innings that was far away from his attacking brand of cricket people are accustomed to. He , however , revealed a day after that defeat that he was promoted to take the attack to the opposition , but had to temper his batting as the Daredevils kept losing wickets from the other end . " I really enjoyed it [ batting up the order ] . I 'm normally batting down at six or seven and get a few balls to go and play , and it 's nice to have the luxury to try and build an innings , " Morkel said a day after the match. " I was asked to go and play an aggressive , finishing role , but we kept on losing wickets and that role changed. I still thought we were well in command of the game after 13 overs , but unfortunately we could n't get a partnership going towards the end. " Chasing CSK 's 150 for 7 , DD finished on 149 for 9 despite needing 19 runs off the last over. Needing six off the last ball , Morkel crashed it over extra cover but the ball fell a few feet short of the boundary rope . " I knew I had hit it well , and got it from the middle of the bat , but it was pretty flat. I was just trying to blow it along because I knew that it might need a metre or so [ more ] . Very disappointing , but I felt we were in command of the game , " he said . Morkel , however , found positives despite the defeat that has extended their losing streak to 10 matches. He said the revamped outfit , for whom he played his first match in the tournament , has a " good environment " and is still figuring out its best combination . " It was very nice. Not only the game , but even leading up to the first game ; the group of guys we have here and the coaches , the support staff - it 's a real good environment to be a part of , " he said. " A win here yesterday would have been better for us to start , but I think we showed some good signs , and I 'm certainly looking forward to the rest of the tournament . " I think we had lots of positives , " he continued. " The only negative we had was we never got a partnership going. It 's something we always talk about in team meetings - at least have one big partnership and then a few decent ones. We never got that going - that was the only negative to take out from the game. But that 's something we can work on. It 's part of how we plan , batting partnerships , bowling partnerships. I 'm sure we will rectify that later in the tournament. " © Cricbuzz Tags
