Fascinating IPL exudes power to divide united fans Sat , Apr 11 2015 by Aditya Bhattacharya Last updated on Saturday , 11 April , 2015 , 02 : 23 PM The IPL divides the mass in two types of fans : the ones who appreciate the beauty of the game and then those , for whom the event is a conflict between their heroes and villains Just like listening to Liverpool fans sing gives goosebumps , the IPL too has shown itself capable of absorbing as much time as a fan or fanatic can throw at it Sachin Tendulkar during the game against Delhi Daredevils at the Feroz Shah Kotla in 2011. © Getty The experience of watching your first cricket game at a stadium has no equal. The one thing that had bothered me for a long time was never having experienced the buzz of a match at the venue. Thanks to a friend , an ardent Delhi Daredevils follower , I was at their high-voltage clash against Mumbai Indians four seasons ago . As the Daredevils get ready to host Rajasthan Royals at the Kotla on Sunday , the mind travels back in time when I was in college. My friends and I had a contrariwise interest in cricket. While I preferred plumbing the depths of team composition and nature of the pitch , the three of them were keen on only watching their 'favourite ' teams play . We had a lot in common - WWE , mocking juniors wearing shades in college and hating the idea of our folk wanting us to get married as soon as possible. But every time MI would trump KKR - especially that one game , where MI needed four to win off the last ball and Ambati Rayudu dispatched L Balaji for a six over deep midwicket in 2011 , we would be in for long debates as to how MI is all about over-rated star-power and how KKR came within striking distance of pulling it off . While a discussion on cricket can begin with anything - rules , venues or players , the Indian Premier League takes a lot more than that. It divides the mass in two types of fans : First , the ones who appreciate the game irrespective of what team they support or what State they belong to. And second : fanatics , for who the event is a conflict between their heroes and villains , to be won at all costs. IPL targets this audience , specially the college-going lot who let their emotions be controlled by their regional side . As the 2015 edition heads into its first double-header , American boxing and professional wrestling ring announcer Michael Buffer 's renowned catchphrase " Let 's get ready to rumbleee " must be reverberating in the minds of Indian fans as the nation 's biggest cricket carnival has arrived and will engage them over the next 45 days or so. Debates about shorter boundaries and commercialisation of the game will rent the air ; some will rave about the idea of local talent coming to the fore and others will fancy the idea of Dale Steyn bowling to AB de Villiers . The World Cup ended 12 days earlier , with a final that promised us the moon but ended one-sided. But fans , especially those in India , will have little time to dwell on the disappointment of the team 's journey being cut short one game away from the final. MS Dhoni , Virat Kohli , Umesh Yadav and Ajinkya Rahane are back captivating their attention , this time against one other and clad in different jerseys . If one is to study the footballing culture in the UK , the weekend games are followed as enthusiastically as a sermon. To hear the Liverpool fans sing makes the hair on the back of your neck stand. Similarly , the IPL has shown itself capable of absorbing as much time as a fan or fanatic can throw at it. It has added to entertainment that Tests and ODIs offer and has hooked many to cricket. They knew cricket , were n't just its fans. IPL made them understand that the beauty of a contest between bat and ball need not necessarily last five days or 100 overs . It has the power to drive a friendly wedge between buddies - an experience I faced in abundance during my graduation. I can recall how a dear friend of Hyderabad-origin and I would be on opposite sides of the fence when MI faced Deccan Chargers. I could gloat when Sanath Jayasuriya waded into Nuwan Zoysa , taking him for 19 runs in the second over in 2008 and Mumbai won that encounter by a good 25-run margin . My first ever placard and I assume I did not disappoint © Cricbuzz To get back to my maiden tryst with the Kotla , it was my friend 's first match too and he was awed looking at the overwhelming support for MI , on the way to and in the stadium. Like many around me , he too was intrigued to know the reason behind me backing the Mumbai-based franchise - especially since I 've been born and brought up in Delhi . Personally , there were many. First , when MI started , Shaun Pollock and Lasith Malinga led the pace attack. During my years of growing up , the South African medium-pacer was one of the few who troubled Sachin Tendulkar the most , hence the idea of watching them play together sounded really fancy. Second , the sight of Tendulkar and Jayasuriya striding out together at the start of their innings has no parallel . Unfortunately for me , our seats were smack bang right in the middle of an ocean of red. Yet , since it was a first , not supporting Tendulkar 's team was not an option. As I screamed out loud on each of Malinga 's five wickets which bundled the Daredevils out for 95 , it induced a jeer from the Delhi contingent next to me , making me feel like a Napoli fan cheering for Diego Maradona 's Argentina in the 1990 World Cup in Italy . I could relate to that feeling well since I drew flak from my Bengali friends and , at times , from my family for supporting MI every time they took on Kolkata Knight Riders. My admiration for Tendulkar went far beyond my Bengali roots. With his charisma , calibre , personality and the intelligence and without controversy , he was Maradona in the Indian context . In the event , MI won the match by a wide margin but all we discussed on our drive back was the shrewd , yet witty , comments that the DD supporters made to me. I am sure that the fans who will throng the four venues this weekend will face similar situations , strange yet real . © Cricbuzz
