Brutal McCullum sets up CSK 's second win Sat , Apr 11 2015 by Tanmoy Mookherjee Last updated on Saturday , 11 April , 2015 , 03 : 00 PM CSK were set up by a brutal innings from Brendon McCullum , whose 56-ball 100 * had laid the platform for his team to post 209 for 4 Sunrisers Hyderabad kept Kane Williamson too far back in their essay , and the asking rate kept creeping up with the team falling 45 runs short Seven fours and nine sixes - each more audacious than the previous hit - were the hallmark of McCullum 's second IPL century. © ECB Franchises have employed interesting tactics in the first few matches of the 2015 edition of the IPL. Delhi Daredevils and Kings XI Punjab had earlier kept their premier batsmen with too much to do in the little time they had at the crease. Chasing a stiff 210 for victory against Chennai Super Kings on Saturday , Sunrisers Hyderabad went for a similar ploy by having Kane Williamson come in at No 7 , and eventually fell short by 45 runs . Victory for CSK , however , was set up by a brutal innings from Brendon McCullum , whose 56-ball 100 * had laid the platform for his team to post 209 for 4 after captain MS Dhoni had won the toss and decided to bat. The MA Chidambaram stadium in Chennai had thrown up a low-scoring encounter in the first match the stadium hosted in two years , but on Saturday the franchise that calls it home gave the spectators plenty to cheer about . Sunrisers began well in reply with Shikhar Dhawan ( 26 , 18b , 5x4 ) and new captain David Warner ( 53 , 42b , 1x4 , 3x6 ) beginning well , but the CSK bowlers applied the brakes on their scoring once Dhawan fell to Mohit Sharma , and KL Rahul followed for 5 after being bowled by the same bowler. Warner continued but in the company of Naman Ojha , boundaries dried up and with the asking rate climbing over 13 , a boundary and a six followed off Ishwar Pandey that gave Warner his half-century , but the next ball was hit straight to Dwayne Smith who took a smart catch at midwicket . Offspinner R Ashwin and medium-pacer Dwayne Bravo combined for frugal eight overs that snuffed the life out of the SRH chase , with Ravi Bopara ( 22 , 15b , 2x6 ) and Williamson ( 26 * , 18b , 1x4 , 1x6 ) left with too many to get , and eventually finished on 164 for 6 , never finding the momentum to go after the CSK bowling , even though one would suspect McCullum 's innings had already killed the game off with his powerful - and often inventive - hitting . Seven fours and nine sixes - each more audacious than the previous hit - were the hallmark of McCullum 's second IPL century against a bowling attack featuring Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Trent Boult and Ishant Sharma. Ishant particularly struggled with his rhythm as he overstepped four times , and was punished throughout his three overs , finishing up with 0 for 46 , his last over alone costing 21 . While McCullum dominated the start of the innings - his collection of sixes including a lap shot over the wicketkeeper 's head off Ishant - Dhoni took over the six-hitting duties , and blazed 53 from 29 balls ( 4x4 , 4x6 ) . Such was the ineffectiveness of the Sunrisers bowlers that Dhoni 's was the only wicket to fall to a bowler , with the other three being run outs . Under David Warner the Sunrisers outfit wore many new faces , handing IPL debuts to New Zealand duo Kane Williamson and Boult , but the Australian was kept busy by his erratic bowlers as openers McCullum and Dwayne Smith put on 75 in the first eight overs. Beginning with a leading edge from Smith that flew past cover for a boundary , McCullum took over and continued to give bowlers the charge despite his early dismissals in the past couple of games . Bhuvneshwar and Boult had made a decent start but Ishant and legspinner Karn Sharma 's introduction opened up scoring avenues for the CSK openers , and despite Smith 's run-out to a direct hit from Boult for 27 , McCullum reached his fifty off 38 balls but his next 45 took another 18. Dhoni 's onslaught had somewhat extinguished McCullum 's chances of reaching the century , but all it need were two more ramp shots to get to 99 , and a last-ball single gave his innings the conclusion it deserved . © Cricbuzz Tags
