Brilliant Gayle ends KKR 's winning streak Sat , Apr 11 2015 Last updated on Sunday , 12 April , 2015 , 04 : 42 AM Gayle fell four runs short of a ton. © BCCI Chris Gayle has proved once again that the Indian Premier League is his real playground. The big West Indian smashed his way to a 56-ball 96 as Royal Challengers Bangalore brought an end to Kolkata Knight Riders ' winning streak of 10 matches at Eden Gardens on Saturday night . When KKR posted a solid 177 in match five of IPL 2015 , RCB needed a special effort to get over the line against a very strong bowling unit. Gayle provided that - after some reckless shots had the tourists reduced to 93 for 4 in 11 overs. Thereafter , the left-hander took it upon himself to see the team home and even a partisan Kolkatan crowd could do nothing but bow down to his brilliance. One full-blooded shot after another from the blade of his bat meant that RCB started their campaign with a thumping three-wicket win in 19 overs . So powerful were Gayle 's shots that Eden Gardens looked small. And it 's not. But before Gayle took control of the situation , Dinesh Karthik , Mandeep Singh , AB de Villiers , Darren Sammy were all guilty of throwing their wickets away in a moment of madness . Gayle was in an unrelenting mood , and by hitting IPL debutant KC Cariappa for a six and a four in the so-called mystery spinner 's first over , he gave ample proof of that. He ended up hitting seven fours and seven sixes before a run-out culminated his innings within nine runs of victory. As the RCB dug-out broke into celebrations , Morne Morkel , who accounted for Virat Kohli early into the chase , was left to rue dropping Gayle on 63 off the bowling of Yusuf Pathan . Earlier , after electing to bowl first , RCB looked directionless and allowed the defending champions to get to 177 for 6. They came back briefly in the second half of the innings after a solid opening stand between Gautam Gambhir and Robin Uthappa , but Andre Russell unleashed a few monstrous hits towards the end to bring KKR back in the ascendancy . The first ten overs were nothing short of shoddy for RCB. In the absence of Mitchell Starc , the IPL debutant Sean Abbott enthusiastically ran in to bowl to Uthappa in the first over but a misfield by Abu Nechim at third man turned what should have been a single into four runs. That remained the order for the most part of RCB 's stay in the field . Even someone like de Villiers , one of the best fielders in the world , had a horrible outing in the field , dropping Gambhir on 31. The KKR captain went on to make 58 , his second successive fifty. Gambhir turned back the clock a few years and some of his shots were breathtaking. He and Uthappa added 81 runs in 10.4 overs for the opening wicket to lay the foundations for a good score. However , Uthappa 's departure for 35 brought on a tricky phase for KKR because not long after that , Gambhir , Suryakumar Yadav and Manish Pandey - the latter two fell off successive balls - were back in the dugout with 131 runs on the board in 16.2 overs . At that stage it looked like RCB were back into the contest but then Russell caught them unawares and smashed a 17-ball 41 * ( 6x4s , 2x6s ) . However , his efforts were dwarfed by those of Gayle . Brief scores : Kolkata Knight Riders 177/6 in 20 overs ( Gambhir 58 , Russell 41 * ; Yuzvendra Chahal 1/28 , Nechim 1/28 ) lose to Royal Challengers Bangalore 179/7 in 19 overs ( Gayle 96 ; de Villiers 28 ; Yusuf Pathan 2/40 ) by three wickets © Cricbuzz Tags
