IPL Scam : Amendment to BCCI Rule 6.2.4 is 'True Villain ' , Says Supreme Court IPL Scam : Amendment to BCCI Rule 6.2.4 is 'True Villain ' , Says Supreme Court Supreme Court has struck down the amendment to rule 6.2.4 of BCCI permitting administrators of the cricket body to acquire or hold commercial interest in events like IPL and CLT20 . Last updated on Friday , 23 January , 2015 15 : 26 IST Total Shares File photo of N. Srinivasan . © PTI New Delhi : Supreme Court on Thursday struck down the amendment to rule 6.2.4 of BCCI permitting administrators of the cricket body to acquire or hold commercial interest in events like Indian Premier League and Champions League Twenty20 , terming it as the " true villain " of the situation. ( Timeline : Complete IPL saga ) A bench headed by Justice T S Thakur said that conflict of interest was the one area which appeared to have led to the confusion and it gave a " serious misgivings " in the mind of the public regarding the manner in which BCCI is managing its affairs. ( Two World Cup Triumphs and a Red Letter Day ) " Suffice it to say that amendment to Rule 6.2.4 is the true villain in the situation at hand. It is the amendment which attempts to validate what was on the date of the award of the franchise invalid as Rule 6.2.4 did not as on that date permit an administrator to have any commercial interest in any event organized by BCCI , " the apex court said. ( Srinivasan refuses to comment on Supreme Court judgment ) " It is accordingly answered in the affirmative and amendment to rule 6.2.4 permitting administrators of BCCI to acquire or hold commercial interests in BCCI like IPL , Champions League and T-20 held to be bad for the reasons we have set out in the foregoing paras ( in the judgement ) , " the bench , also comprising Justice F M I Kalifulla , said. ( N. Srinivasan 's Election in Jeopardy , Supreme Court Orders BCCI AGM in Six Weeks ) " Conflict of interest is one area which appears to have led to the current confusion and serious misgivings in the public mind as to the manner in which BCCI is managing its affairs , " the court said. ( I am Happy That Srinivasan is Out : Sharad Pawar ) It also opined that it would not be correct to say that there is no possibility of any conflict of interest arising in IPL format between an administrator 's duty and the commercial interest , if any , held by such person . The bench also noted that conflict of interest " is not only possible but ominously looming large if an administrator also owns a competing team. " ( Lalit Modi Hails Supreme Court Verdict , Says He is Vindicated ) " BCCI 's commercial plans for its own benefit and the benefit of the players are bound to blow up in smoke , if the people who watch and support the game were to lose interest or be indifferent because , they get to know that some business interests have hijacked the game for their own ends or that the game is no longer the game they know or love because of frauds on and off the field , " it said. ( It 's Srinivasan 's Call to Decide on his Future : BCCI ) The bench also said although it may not be feasible at this stage to interfere with the award of Chennai Super Kings franchise to India Cement Ltd especially when hundreds of crores have been invested by the franchisee , " the amendment which perpetuates such a conflict can not be countenanced and shall have to be struck down. " Terming as unfortunate the amendment to rule 6.2.4 , the bench said " it clearly negates the declarations and resolves of BCCI by permitting situations in which conflict of interest would grossly erode the confidence of the people in the authenticity , purity and integrity of the game. " ( Former Chief Justice to Review BCCI Constitution ) " An amendment which strikes at the very essence of the game as stated in the Anti Corruption Code can not obviously co-exist with the fundamental imperatives. Conflict of interest situation is a complete anti-thesis to everything recognized by BCCI as constituting fundamental imperatives of the game hence unsustainable and impermissible in law , " the bench said. ( Srinivasan Ca n't Contest BCCI Elections Till he Gives up Commercial Interests in Cricket : Supreme Court ) It also said that all cricket matches must be contested on a level playing field with the outcome to be determined solely by the merits of the competing teams . " The Anti Corruption Code of the BCCI does not mince words in accepting the stark reality that if the confidence of the public in the purity of the game is undermined then the very essence of the game of cricket shall be shaken , " it said . Story first published on : Friday , 23 January 2015 13 : 26 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS BCCI
