Graphs That concludes the opening day of the 2015 World Cup. We have a double-header coming up tomorrow. South Africa take on Zimbabwe at Hamilton in the first match and the second one is a biggie as arch-rivals India and Pakistan lock horns at Adelaide in what is seen as the biggest game of the tournament. Looking forward to your company then for Super Sunday. Take care. Goodbye ! Coming back to Anderson 's dismissal , looks like the umpires made an error. This is what the ICC rule states : 3.6 Dead ball. a ) If following a Player Review request , an original decision of Out is changed to Not Out , then the ball is still deemed to have become dead when the original decision was made. The batting side , while benefiting from the reversal of the dismissal , will not benefit from any runs that may subsequently have accrued from the delivery had the on-field umpire originally made a Not Out decision , other than any No Balls penalty . Bailey : " Good night out there , very very happy. It was a very special moment , the anthems were fantastic. You like to see when the top stands start filling up at the MCG , it was a pretty entertaining game of cricket. We were happy to bat first , big game and we were obviously a little bit anxious. I think there 's been a big build-up and just that anticipation of a big tournament starting... We felt like we 've got a really strong batting line-up and it was nice to make first use of the wicket with the bat. It 's his ( Finch ) home ground and he rose to the occasion. That 's what we want from our top-order , to play some match-winning innings and he certainly played one tonight. I do n't think he ( Mitchell Marsh ) has bowled that many overs in a row for a while. I wanted him to get five wickets , but I did n't know for how many overs he was good enough and the medical staff would be yelling at me as to what 's happening ( smiles ) . But , he was outstanding and really broke the game open for us. Good partnership , was n't it ( referring to his 146-run stand with Finch ) . We lost a couple of wickets and it was nice to set up the innings for the likes of Maxi and Mitch to come out and go crazy as they do. " Morgan : " I think it ( Australia 's total ) was above par on this wicket , it was a good surface. We probably let ourselves down in the field and our death bowling in particular probably let us down as well. 310 was a par score but we needed to come out all guns blazing to chase down 340. With Jimmy and Broady at the top , we thought we could make some early inroads. Finny taking his second fifer on this tour so far has been great , he has shown great promise. Obviously James Taylor has been batting well and he 's very unlucky not to get the 100. Another tough game ( against New Zealand ) in the group stage and again if we keep testing ourselves against the best side and learn as much as we can as the tournament progresses , hopefully we 'll hit the straps come the quarterfinal. " Australia put up a slick performance to thump England by a margin of 111 runs and get their World Cup campaign off to a great start. Australia piled up 342 for 9 on the board before bundling out England for a modest score of 231. Aaron Finch turned out to be the star of the show for Australia as he composed a brilliant century. Among the bowlers , Mitchell Marsh took a five-wicket haul for the hosts. James Taylor played a lone hand for England , but just did n't get the support from the other batsmen . In fact , Australia made a nervous start to their innings with Chris Woakes dropping an easy catch off James Anderson 's bowling as Finch got a reprieve. The drop catch proved costly , as Finch produced explosive fireworks to explore every nook and corner of the ground. For a brief period , Stuart Broad lifted the sagging morale of the England team by snaffling the wickets of David Warner and Shane Watson in quick succession. But Bailey , Australia 's stand-in captain , came to the rescue and stitched an important partnership with Finch. Once Finch was dismissed for 135 , Maxwell played with a dash of strength and bravery to take Australia to an imposing total. For the visitors , Steven Finn took a five-for , including a hat-trick at the end of Australia 's innings . While chasing down a huge total of 343 , England capitulated against some disciplined bowling and athletic fielding by Australia. Brad Haddin took a superb one-handed catch to dismiss England captain , Eoin Morgan. Steve Smith also plucked a catch out of thin air at short cover to send Jos Buttler back to the pavilion. The diminutive Taylor gave a good account of himself with a sparkling innings. It was an innings full of improvisation. Unfortunately for him , he was left stranded on 98 , with James Anderson getting run out. Australia will face Bangladesh in their next game in Brisbane. On the other hand , England will have the daunting task of taking on one of the in-form sides of the tournament , New Zealand , in Wellington . Finch : " It 's nice , it 's a bit surreal. It 's a great feeling to get a win first up. We would have batted first anyway and it 's nice to get a game out of the way. Everyone contributed , with bat or ball. Great feeling to get a win tonight and hopefully we 'll take a lot of momentum through the rest of the tournament. " Aaron Finch is the Man of the Match for his 128-ball 135 41.5 Hazlewood to James Taylor , out J Anderson Run Out ! ! Phew ! Inswinging yorker from Hazlewood , Taylor misses the flick and gets hit low on the pad. The impact was around the leg stump and umpire Dar ruled Taylor out immediately. Taylor then sent it upstairs and replays suggested that it was clearly missing the stumps. The LBW decision was reversed. However , as the batsmen tried to take a run , Maxwell fired a direct-hit at the striker 's end from backward point and Anderson was just short of his crease. Taylor could n't believe his luck and in the end , he took his helmet off and again shook hands with the Australians with a smile. J Anderson run out ( Maxwell ) 8 ( 11 ) [ 4s-1 ] Hazlewood to James Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Drama ! Taylor has been given out LBW , but he 's reviewed it straightaway. He shakes hands with the Australian players with a smile. Umpire Aleem Dar raised his finger in a flash. No problems with Hazlewood 's footing. No inside edge as well. Oh looks like it is going down the leg-side and yes it is. It is Not-Out ! Umpire Dar changes his verdict. Big confusion out there. Maxwell fired a direct-hit and they have also asked the third umpire to check the run-out. Anderson is short of his crease , umpires converge and this time Dharmasena raises his finger to signal the end of the game. Some reckon it should be a dead-ball as the original appeal was for LBW. But the third umpire sends the word that Anderson is OUT and Taylor is stranded on 98. What a dramatic finish ! 41.4 Hazlewood to J Anderson , 1 run , in the air , but safe. Short delivery on the off stump , Anderson gets the shoulder of the bat , the ball goes in the air , point runs to his right , puts in the dive but the ball drops wide of him. Batsmen cross over 41.3 Hazlewood to James Taylor , leg byes , 1 run , in the air , but safe. In fact the umpire signals a leg bye. It looked like a top edge. It was a slower delivery outside off stump , Taylor tries to pull , but looked like it went off the helmet to fine leg 41.2 Hazlewood to James Taylor , no run , full and in the slot , he was looking to drive it in the gap but he 's hit it straight to extra-cover 41.1 Hazlewood to James Taylor , FOUR , a misfield at mid-on and he gets to 98. Short ball from Hazlewood , Taylor gives the charge and flat-bats it down the ground , mid-on dives to his left but does n't manage to stop the ball cleanly Josh Hazlewood [ 6.0-0-40-0 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Starc to J Anderson , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Anderson shoulders arms 40.5 Starc to J Anderson , FOUR , outside edge , but Anderson has played that with soft hands. He tries to defend this good length delivery with an angled bat and the edge runs away along the ground to the third man boundary 40.4 Starc to J Anderson , no run , a solid forward defence from Anderson this time 40.3 Starc to J Anderson , no run , gee ! That was very close to the leg stump. Yorker swinging back in at pace , Anderson backs away and tries to squeeze it out , but misses. Haddin makes an excellent save diving to his right. In fact , Anderson got the toe-end of the bat on that occasion , but it went on the bounce to the keeper 40.2 Starc to J Anderson , no run , got to move your feet , James Anderson. A lazy cut shot attempted but he only meets with thin air 40.1 Starc to J Anderson , no run , good length delivery on the off stump , blocked 39.6 Johnson to James Taylor , no run , oh the little man was initially trying to get across the line to pull , but Johnson delivered this bumper at 143kph and Taylor just about manages to get out of the line before letting it go to Haddin. He wears a smile on his face as he suggests to Johnson that it was a good ball 39.5 Johnson to James Taylor , 2 runs , slower delivery outside off stump , Taylor slogs it over backward square leg. The ball took the inside half of the bat on that occasion Johnson has sent mid-off back . 39.4 Johnson to James Taylor , no run , oops ! This short of length delivery hurries onto Taylor and beats his attempted pull shot , before hitting him on the thigh pad 39.3 Johnson to James Taylor , no run , slower ball outside off stump , Taylor tries to run it down to third man but misses. Haddin gets a bad bounce but he manages to half-stop the ball 39.2 Johnson to James Taylor , no run , steps out and swings hard at this good length delivery but picks out Bailey at extra-cover 39.1 Johnson to J Anderson , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Anderson guides it to third man and gets Taylor back on strike 38.6 Starc to James Taylor , FOUR , that 's unlucky for the bowler. A good yorker on the off stump , Taylor tries to defend but the ball takes the outside edge and runs along the ground to the third man boundary. He 's into the 90s now 38.5 Starc to James Taylor , 2 runs , in the air and the captain almost takes a stunner ! 10/10 for attempting that one. Full and outside off stump , Taylor gently slices it uppishly , backward point dives to his right , gets his fingertips to it but the ball escapes 38.4 Starc to James Taylor , 2 runs , low full toss on the leg stump , Taylor flicks it along the ground through backward square leg and returns back for the second 38.3 Starc to James Taylor , no run , that ball almost knocked the leg stump out of the ground. Full and angling in , it was very fast as well , Taylor dances down the track and tries to slog , but misses 38.2 Starc to James Taylor , FOUR , that 's cheeky from Taylor and he 's got four for it. Short slower ball on the stumps , Taylor bends his knees and ramps it over Haddin 's head for four more 38.1 Starc to J Anderson , 1 run , a juicy , friendly full toss on the off stump , Anderson simply opts to tap it wide of mid-off , instead of going hard at it 37.6 Johnson to James Taylor , FOUR , top shot sir ! A classy shot indeed. Low full toss just outside off stump , Taylor shuffles in the crease and as he sees the low full toss come his way , just opens the face of the bat at the last moment and steers it past backward point. He timed it so sweetly that third man was a mere spectator 37.5 Johnson to James Taylor , no run , Johnson takes pace off the ball this time , Taylor slogs and gets an inside edge onto pad 37.4 Johnson to James Taylor , no run , ugly slog across the line , but you ca n't blame Taylor for it. He 's running out of partners and he 's trying to score as many as possible 37.3 Johnson to J Anderson , 1 run , late swing back into the left-hander on this good length delivery , Anderson lazily drives away from the body and the inside edge goes past the off stump to fine leg 37.3 Johnson to J Anderson , 5 wides , oopsy ! He 's lost control of the ball and sprayed this way down the leg-side. Haddin could n't get to the ball even with a full length dive to his right. Some consolation for England as the 200 comes up 37.2 Johnson to J Anderson , no run , fullish and just outside off stump , Anderson gets behind the line and defends James Anderson , left handed bat , comes to the crease Two slips in place now . 37.1 Johnson to Finn , out Caught&Bowled ! ! That 's a dolly ! Absolute dolly and Johnson runs forward to swallow the ball. Bouncer right at the body of the batsman , Finn had to play at it. He stays very stiff and tries to fend the ball , but it hits him high on the bat and pops up in the air for the simplest of catches. Australia are almost there now ! Finn c and b Johnson 1 ( 6 ) Johnson to Finn , THATS OUT ! ! Caught&Bowled ! ! 36.6 Starc to Finn , 1 run , attempted yorker from Starc , it goes as a low full toss , pushed to mid-on 36.5 Starc to Finn , no run , drags his length back this time , this is top-class fast bowling from Starc. He 's mixing his length nicely and Finn plays and misses 36.4 Starc to Finn , no run , oh how did that miss the off stump ? With this angle from round the wicket , Starc starts the yorker around the off stump , it moves away very late and sneaks under Finn 's bat as he tries to defend 36.3 Starc to Finn , no run , pacy yorker , good follow-up ball after a bumper , Finn could n't get his bat down in time. Luckily for him , it was n't on target 36.2 Starc to Finn , no run , short delivery outside off stump , Finn lets it go Steven Finn , right handed bat , comes to the crease 36.1 Starc to Broad , out Bowled ! ! Full and straight , you miss , I hit ! It 's a great sight for a fast bowler when he hits the base of the stumps. Starc has been good of late with his reverse-swinging yorkers and Broad had no clue to this one , which shaped back in very late. Broad hardly bothered to move his feet , in fact he backed away slightly as well , maybe that Mitchell Johnson toe-crusher in the Ashes is still playing on his mind. He never got in line with the ball and it crashed into middle and leg. Second wicket for Starc. Broad b Starc 0 ( 1 ) Starc to Broad , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 35.6 Johnson to James Taylor , FOUR , that 's in the gap again and it 's four more. Short and wide outside off stump , looked like the slower ball again from Johnson , Taylor cut it hard , cover-point dived to his left but could n't stop the ball 35.5 Johnson to James Taylor , FOUR , this is a great cricketing shot from Taylor. Good use of the box as well. With pace on offer on this short of length delivery from Johnson , Taylor opts to wait for the ball and gently guides it fine to the third man boundary 35.4 Johnson to James Taylor , no run , slower ball very full , easily kept out by Taylor 35.3 Johnson to James Taylor , 2 runs , in the air again , but well wide of the diving fielder at backward point. Taylor dabbed at this short of length delivery uppishly and got away with it Stuart Broad , left handed bat , comes to the crease 35.2 Johnson to Woakes , out Caught by S Smith ! ! Who wants it ? Who wants it ? That 's a gift and Smith does n't drop those. A clever slower ball from Johnson breaks Woakes ' 92-run association with Taylor. Woakes was completely foxed by the lack of pace , he went way too early into the drive and scooped it straight up in the air , mid-off took a few steps back , settled under it and took it cleanly. That is the first wicket for Johnson. Woakes c S Smith b Johnson 37 ( 42 ) [ 4s-2 ] Johnson to Woakes , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 35.1 Johnson to Woakes , no run , full and outside off stump , Woakes ' attempted cover-drive goes off the inside half of the bat and rolls to the right of Johnson Mitchell Johnson [ 5.0-0-13-0 ] is back into the attack 34.6 Starc to James Taylor , no run , leading edge but it rolls to point. Taylor closes the face of the bat a bit too early as he opts to flick , luckily for him , he played with soft hands 34.5 Starc to Woakes , 1 run , mid-off is on the edge of the ring and it 's an easy run. Woakes pushes this fuller length delivery to the left of the fielder and sets off 34.4 Starc to James Taylor , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Taylor chops it to third man as he tries to run this past backward point 34.3 Starc to James Taylor , no run , pacy short of length delivery outside off stump , Taylor looks to upper-cut but it was too quick for him Starc changes his angle , comes round the wicket . 34.2 Starc to James Taylor , no run , short of length delivery angling away from the right-hander , Taylor flashes and misses 34.1 Starc to James Taylor , SIX , oh he goes hard at it , it 's cleared the infield , does it have enough legs to go all the way ? Yes , it does ! Full and in the slot from Starc , Taylor takes his front leg out of the way and goes bang , over mid-on Mitchell Starc [ 5.0-1-21-1 ] is back into the attack 33.6 M Marsh to Woakes , no run , bouncer to finish the over , Woakes pulls and misses 33.5 M Marsh to James Taylor , 1 run , on a length and around the off stump , pushed to mid-on 33.4 M Marsh to James Taylor , FOUR , gives the charge to the bowler and muscles it over mid-on. That was an authoritative shot from Taylor. He danced down the track and made good contact to pick up four more 33.3 M Marsh to Woakes , 1 run , short from Marsh again , pulled down to fine leg 33.2 M Marsh to James Taylor , 1 run , outside edge this time but it does n't carry to third man. Taylor slashes hard and only manages a run 33.1 M Marsh to James Taylor , SIX , that 's up in the air , it 's a top edge and it 's gone all the way. Fifth ODI fifty for James Taylor and he 's played well. In fact , he 's scored all his fifties in the last 10 innings. Short delivery on the off stump , Taylor tries to help it away through backward square leg , but the ball flies all the way over fine leg off a top edge England have opted for the 5-over batting powerplay . 32.6 Watson to Woakes , no run , length ball to round off the over , bunted towards mid-on 32.5 Watson to Woakes , no run , sharp bumper from Watson , Woakes pulls and misses 32.4 Watson to Woakes , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Woakes defends 32.3 Watson to James Taylor , 1 run , just outside off stump this time , Taylor guides it down to third man 32.2 Watson to Woakes , 1 run , easily worked away through mid-wicket 32.1 Watson to Woakes , 2 runs , shortish delivery from Watson , Woakes pulls it away to deep mid-wicket That 's the final drinks break of the match. Australia continue to dominate proceedings. If not for this 67-run association between Taylor and Woakes , things would have been even worse for England. Mitch Marsh completed a fifer and is threatening to take more wickets. So it is just a matter of time for Australia now to wrap this game . 31.6 M Marsh to Woakes , 1 run , slower ball on the off stump , Woakes flicks it to the right of mid-wicket 31.5 M Marsh to Woakes , no run , in the air , but just short of Steve Smith. On a length and outside off stump , Woakes drives uppishly , but luckily for him , the ball drops in front of the diving fielder at short cover 31.4 M Marsh to Woakes , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Woakes defends off the back foot 31.3 M Marsh to Woakes , no run , a loose drive from Woakes and he gets away with it. That could easily have been Marsh 's sixth wicket. Good length delivery well outside off stump , Woakes feels for the ball and gets away with it 31.2 M Marsh to James Taylor , 1 run , sharp run attempted and Taylor is safe. 127.9kph length ball on the off stump , Taylor softly taps it towards mid-on and sets off , Bailey runs forward and under-arms the ball , but misses the target 31.1 M Marsh to James Taylor , no run , short and outside off stump , Taylor looks to cut but gets beaten Mitch Marsh is back . Mitchell Marsh [ 7.0-0-18-5 ] is back into the attack 30.6 Watson to Woakes , no run , Watson keeps it close to the off stump , Woakes goes for the off-drive but gets a thickish inside edge that rolls to short mid-wicket 30.5 Watson to Woakes , no run , slower ball outside off stump , softly pushed into the off-side 30.4 Watson to James Taylor , 1 run , full and outside off stump , a good stride forward from Taylor as he drives this sweetly to deep extra-cover 30.3 Watson to Woakes , 1 run , this time Woakes pulls a short ball down to fine leg 30.2 Watson to James Taylor , 1 run , shortish delivery on the leg stump , Taylor pulls it along the ground to fine leg 30.1 Watson to Woakes , 1 run , Watto begins his new spell with a good length delivery just outside off stump , Woakes guides it along the ground to third man Shane Watson [ 1.0-0-5-0 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Maxwell to James Taylor , no run , on middle and leg line , Taylor nurdles it to short mid-wicket 29.5 Maxwell to Woakes , 3 runs , flatter outside off , Woakes punches it through the covers for another three runs 29.4 Maxwell to Woakes , FOUR , poor ball from Maxwell , he drags this one short and down leg , Woakes waits for it and helps it to the fine leg fence , good shot that from Woakes 29.3 Maxwell to James Taylor , 1 run , steps out of the crease and eases it down to long-on for a single 29.2 Maxwell to James Taylor , no run , gives the charge and blocks it to towards mid-wicket 29.1 Maxwell to James Taylor , FOUR , floated up on off stump , Taylor goes for the reverse sweep and hits it sweetly to the deep extra cover fence 28.6 S Smith to James Taylor , 1 run , shortish delivery outside off , Taylor punches it to deep extra cover 28.5 S Smith to Woakes , 1 run , whips this flighted delivery to mid-on for a single 28.4 S Smith to James Taylor , 3 runs , flatter outside off , Taylor cuts it past backward point , Starc from sweeper cover runs to his left , dives near the boundary and saves a run for his team , good fielding effort from the bowler 28.3 S Smith to James Taylor , no run , floated on off and middle , Taylor pushes it to cover off the front foot 28.2 S Smith to James Taylor , FOUR , loopy delivery on the stumps , Taylor gives the charge and takes it on the full , he drills it straight down the ground and Finch at long-off was a little slow to get off the blocks , he runs to his right and puts in the dive , but ca n't stop the ball 28.1 S Smith to Woakes , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Woakes drives it to long-off for a single 27.6 Maxwell to Woakes , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Woakes drills the drive towards cover , who dives to his right and makes a half-stop , the ball rolls away towards the mid-off region , but the fielder definitely saved three there 27.5 Maxwell to Woakes , 2 runs , goes down on one knee and sweeps this fine , the fielder from backward square leg gives chase and the batsmen take a couple 27.4 Maxwell to James Taylor , 1 run , bunts this flighted delivery on middle and leg line to long-on 27.3 Maxwell to James Taylor , 2 runs , flighted delivery on the stumps , Taylor goes for the reverse sweep , the fielder at backward point misfields and allows the batsmen to take a couple 27.2 Maxwell to Woakes , 1 run , quicker and on middle stump line , Woakes eases it down to long-on 27.1 Maxwell to Woakes , no run , floated up around off , Woakes drives it back to the bowler Spin from both ends as Maxwell also comes into the attack Glenn Maxwell [ 2.0-0-14-0 ] is back into the attack 26.6 S Smith to James Taylor , FOUR , shortish delivery from Smith and it has been dispatched to the fence. Taylor rocked back and pulled it to the cow corner fence , good shot that 26.5 S Smith to Woakes , 3 runs , flatter outside off , Woakes goes deep in the crease and cuts it past backward point , who dives but ca n't stop the ball. Watson from short third man gives chase , pulls the ball back in before the boundary and saves a run for his team 26.4 S Smith to Woakes , no run , almost a yorker on the stumps , Woakes jams it out 26.3 S Smith to Woakes , no run , floated up outside off , drives to cover off the front foot 26.2 S Smith to James Taylor , 1 run , on middle stump line , Taylor wrists it towards mid-on for a single 26.1 S Smith to Woakes , 1 run , tossed up on off , Woakes drives it to cover off the front foot Steven Smith , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 25.6 Hazlewood to James Taylor , no run , banged in short , Taylor shuffles across and looks to pull , ca n't make a connection though and Haddin takes it Australia have decided to review a caught behind appeal of Taylor. The onfield decision is Not Out. Hazlewood 's front foot is fine. Snicko also does n't show anything and the onfield decision stays . 25.5 Hazlewood to James Taylor , no run , fullish on the pads , Taylor fails to work it into the on-side and gets hit on the pad , the ball was going down leg though 25.4 Hazlewood to James Taylor , 2 runs , dropped ! Australia have taken some sensational catches today , but Finch drops the easiest of them all. It was banged in short and at the batsman , Taylor miscues the pull and gets it high in the air , Finch from deep square leg runs to his left and gets under it , he just ca n't hold onto it and a chance goes down , a rare blemish in the fielding from the Australians 25.3 Hazlewood to James Taylor , no run , angling in on leg , Taylor fails to work it into the on-side and is rapped on the pad , there was an appeal , but the ball was snaking down leg 25.2 Hazlewood to James Taylor , no run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Taylor looks to pull , but fails to make a connection and wears it on his thigh pad 25.1 Hazlewood to James Taylor , no run , fullish delivery just outside off , Taylor drills the drive back to the bowler 24.6 Starc to James Taylor , 1 run , angles this back of a length delivery on the pads , Woakes was looking to pull , but mistimes it completely , the ball rolls away into the on-side and the batsmen take a quick single Comes round the wicket for the last ball 24.5 Starc to Woakes , 1 run , on a good length and outside off , Woakes stays rooted to the crease and steers it towards third man after opening the face of the bat 24.4 Starc to Woakes , no run , banged in short and just outside off , Woakes sways away from the line and lets it pass 24.3 Starc to Woakes , no run , back of a length delivery outside outside off , Woakes was looking to cut , but checks his shot at the last moment , the ball rolls away towards backward point 24.2 Starc to James Taylor , 1 run , angles this one away outside off , Taylor opens the face of the bat and punches it square of the wicket for a single 24.1 Starc to Woakes , 3 runs , fullish delivery just outside off , Woakes drives it through the covers off the front foot , the batsmen run three before the ball is hunted down 23.6 Hazlewood to James Taylor , FOUR , Taylor premeditates and gives the charge to a short delivery from Hazlewood , he is hurried into the pull and ends up getting a top-edge that goes over the slip fielder and runs away to the fence 23.5 Hazlewood to Woakes , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , Woakes pulls it to deep mid-wicket and gets to the other end , he did n't time it that well though 23.4 Hazlewood to Woakes , 2 runs , angling in on the pads , Woakes works it behind square for a brace A slip is in place for Hazlewood 23.3 Hazlewood to Woakes , no run , shortish and a little wide outside off , Woakes cuts it straight to backward point off the back foot 23.2 Hazlewood to James Taylor , 1 run , length delivery outside off , Taylor goes right across and dabs it to third man , this single also brings up the 100 for England 23.1 Hazlewood to James Taylor , no run , on a good length and around off , Taylor defends it in front of cover from the crease Josh Hazlewood [ 4.0-0-30-0 ] is back into the attack 22.6 Starc to Woakes , FOUR , good use of the wrists there from Woakes , it was fuller in length and on the pads , Woakes clips it through mid-wicket and the ball runs away to the fence 22.5 Starc to Woakes , no run , just short of a good length and on middle and leg , Woakes defends it into the on-side 22.4 Starc to James Taylor , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off , Taylor looks to cut it hard , the ball goes fine to third man off a thickish outside edge 22.3 Starc to James Taylor , no run , on a length and outside off , Taylor comes forward and blocks 22.2 Starc to James Taylor , no run , full and outside off , Taylor mistimes the drive into the off-side 22.1 Starc to James Taylor , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Taylor leans forward and defends it to point Mitchell Starc [ 3.0-1-10-1 ] is back into the attack 21.6 M Marsh to James Taylor , 1 run , bit straighter in line this time , Taylor works it past square leg for a single 21.5 M Marsh to Woakes , 1 run , short delivery at the batsman , Woakes helps it on its way to deep backward square leg 21.4 M Marsh to Woakes , no run , fullish outside off , Woakes pushes it towards cover off the front foot 21.3 M Marsh to Woakes , no run , length delivery on middle stump line , Woakes defends off the front foot Chris Woakes , right handed bat , comes to the crease 21.2 M Marsh to Buttler , out Caught by S Smith ! ! What a catch from Smith ! Probably one of the best in World Cup history. Marsh picks up his 5th wicket as well. It was fullish outside off , Buttler leans forward and drives uppishly , only to be snaffled by Smith at short cover , who leapt up in the air and took a breathtaking catch with both hands. Super , super fielding effort from the Australians. The catching from the Aussies has been exceptional today. Buttler c S Smith b M Marsh 10 ( 12 ) [ 4s-1 ] M Marsh to Buttler , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 21.1 M Marsh to James Taylor , 1 run , shortish delivery on middle and leg , Taylor jabs the pull to deep square leg for a single 20.6 Maxwell to Buttler , 2 runs , flatter and outside off , Buttler stays back in the crease and cuts it towards deep extra cover , the batsmen take a couple before the fielder from sweeper cover gets around 20.5 Maxwell to James Taylor , 1 run , tossed up on the stumps , Taylor comes forward and bunts it down to long-on 20.4 Maxwell to Buttler , 1 run , pushed through quicker on middle and leg , eased down to long-on 20.3 Maxwell to James Taylor , 1 run , steps out and works this flighted delivery to mid-wicket 20.2 Maxwell to Buttler , 1 run , plays the conventional sweep this time and the batsmen take a single as the ball rolls away to fine leg 20.1 Maxwell to Buttler , FOUR , floated up on middle stump line , Buttler employs the reverse sweep and beats the deep backward point fielder to the fence , good shot that from Buttler 19.6 M Marsh to Buttler , 1 run , length delivery just outside off , Buttler presses forward and pushes it through the covers for a single 19.5 M Marsh to Buttler , no run , touch fuller and outside off , Buttler looks to drive off the front foot , the ball goes past the outside edge 19.4 M Marsh to Buttler , no run , bumper from Marsh , Buttler ducks underneath 19.3 M Marsh to James Taylor , 1 run , fullish outside off , Taylor was looking to drive , but gets it off the outside half of the bat , the ball rolls away towards cover-point and the batsmen take a quick single , the fielder has a shy at the non-striker 's end , but Taylor was well in 19.2 M Marsh to James Taylor , no run , length delivery just outside off , Taylor comes on the front foot and bunts it to cover 19.1 M Marsh to James Taylor , no run , on a good length and on middle and leg , Taylor wrists it to mid-on 18.6 Maxwell to Buttler , no run , floated around off , Buttler pushes it to cover off the front foot 18.6 Maxwell to Buttler , wide , bowls a quicker one down leg , Buttler leaves it alone , wided by the umpire 18.5 Maxwell to James Taylor , 1 run , takes a step forward and eases this flighted delivery to long-on 18.4 Maxwell to Buttler , 1 run , pushed through on middle stump line , Buttler works it to mid-wicket and gets to the other end 18.3 Maxwell to Buttler , no run , flatter outside off , Buttler cuts it to point 18.2 Maxwell to Buttler , leg byes , 2 runs , on the pads once again , Buttler looks to glance it fine and misses , the ball rolls away fine off the pads and the batsmen run for two leg byes 18.1 Maxwell to James Taylor , 1 run , darted on the pads , Taylor gives the charge and takes it on the full , works it to fine leg for a single Glenn Maxwell , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Jos Buttler , right handed bat , comes to the crease 17.6 M Marsh to Eoin Morgan , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Captain Morgan goes without troubling the scorers. Sensational catch from Haddin. It was a slower short ball from Marsh and Morgan looks to pull , he was way too early into the shot and ends up getting it off the toe-end of the bat , Haddin was going the other way , but somehow managed to dive low to his left even though he was wrong footed , takes a brilliant one-handed take. Marsh has picked 4 wickets now. Eoin Morgan c Haddin b M Marsh 0 ( 6 ) M Marsh to Eoin Morgan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 17.5 M Marsh to Eoin Morgan , no run , angling away outside off , Morgan leaves it alone 17.4 M Marsh to James Taylor , 1 run , slightly fuller and closer to off , Taylor drives it towards the bowler , who fails to stop it in his followthrough and the batsmen take a quick single as mid-on gets around the ball 17.3 M Marsh to James Taylor , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Taylor bunts it to mid-off off the front foot 17.2 M Marsh to James Taylor , no run , another length ball just outside off , Taylor comes forward and blocks 17.1 M Marsh to James Taylor , no run , on a length and around off , Taylor gets behind the line and defends it into the off-side 16.6 Johnson to James Taylor , leg byes , 1 run , angles this one on the pads , Taylor fails to glance it fine and the ball rolls away behind square off the pad , the batsmen sneak in a leg bye Comes round the wicket for the last ball 16.5 Johnson to James Taylor , no run , bowls this one well outside off , Taylor goes across and shoulders arms 16.4 Johnson to James Taylor , no run , on a length and on the stumps , Taylor leans forward and bunts it back towards the bowler , who grabs the ball and throws it back at the stumps , he did find the stumps , but Taylor was inside the crease. Johnson 's aggression is starting to come out now 16.3 Johnson to James Taylor , no run , did he get an edge ? Fortunately for Taylor , it fell short of Haddin anyway. It was a length delivery outside off , Taylor goes right across and pushes at it , the ball goes past the blade 16.2 Johnson to James Taylor , no run , slightly fuller and angling away outside off , Taylor leans forward and pushes it to cover 16.1 Johnson to James Taylor , no run , length delivery on middle stump line , Taylor shuffles across and turns it towards short mid-wicket 16.1 Johnson to James Taylor , wide , bumper outside off , Taylor leaves it for the keeper and the umpire calls it a wide for height There is a slight delay as a streaker ran onto the field. The security personnel are handling matters and we are ready to go again 15.6 M Marsh to Eoin Morgan , no run , was that a wide ? The umpires do n't think so. It was another bumper from Marsh , Morgan ducks underneath and that 's the over 15.5 M Marsh to Eoin Morgan , no run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Morgan hangs back and defends it into the off-side 15.4 M Marsh to Eoin Morgan , no run , banged in short and just outside off , Morgan drops his wrists and lets it go 15.3 M Marsh to James Taylor , 1 run , drop-and-run single from Taylor , he pushes this one in front of mid-off and sets off for a single 15.2 M Marsh to James Taylor , 2 runs , slightly short and little wide outside off , Taylor gets on top of the bounce and looks to cut hard , the ball goes through the covers and the batsmen take a couple , he did n't time it that well 15.1 M Marsh to James Taylor , no run , on a good length and on off and middle , Taylor was looking to defend it into the on-side , the ball goes towards the bowler off the outside half of the bat Drinks are on the field now . Here is our man , Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the first fifteen overs : After Australia piled up a massive total of 342 for 9 in 50 overs , England lost a slew of wickets to find themselves in dire straits at 67 for 4 after 15 overs. For England , only Ian Bell played some well-timed shots before he was dismissed for 36 , superbly caught by Mitchell Starc in the deep. Once Bell got set , he was able to bisect the gaps with clockwork precision. The essence of Bell 's precise metre of timing can be encapsulated by the way the right-hander used supple wrists to loft Mitchell Johnson over cover for a boundary , in the ninth over of the game . For the hosts , Mitchell Marsh snared the wickets of Bell , Gary Ballance and Joe Root , and at one point of time was on the verge of taking a hat-trick. On the other hand , Starc took the wicket of Moeen Ali. Australia bowled with good disciplines by hitting back of a length and were duly rewarded . 14.6 Johnson to James Taylor , 1 run , short of a length and on the stumps , Taylor shuffles across and nudges it wide of mid-wicket , calls for a quick single and gets it with ease 14.5 Johnson to James Taylor , no run , change in pace from Johnson , slips in the slower ball , Taylor prods across and defends it towards the off-side 14.4 Johnson to James Taylor , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , Taylor has a big swish and misses by a mile 14.3 Johnson to James Taylor , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Taylor shuffles across and defends it 14.2 Johnson to James Taylor , no run , short of a length and angling across Taylor , he shuffles across and defends it towards the on-side 14.1 Johnson to James Taylor , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Taylor shuffles across and defends it towards mid-wicket. Morgan almost overcommitted on a single , has to hurry back in the end Mitchell Johnson [ 3.0-0-11-0 ] is back into the attack 13.6 M Marsh to Eoin Morgan , no run , no hat-trick , but Marsh completes a good over , on a good length and just outside off , Morgan prods forward and defends it James Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease Hat-trick ball , a slip and a gully in place 13.5 M Marsh to J Root , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Two in two for Marsh , it has been such a day today at the MCG. He is on a hat-trick ! England are in complete disarray now. This was short and on the stumps , Root was looking to help it on its way , closed the face of the bat a tad too early , gets a thick top-edge. The ball went very high and behind the keeper. Haddin called for it , ran back a few paces and takes it over his shoulder. J Root c Haddin b M Marsh 5 ( 12 ) M Marsh to J Root , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Eoin Morgan , left handed bat , comes to the crease 13.4 M Marsh to Bell , out Caught by Starc ! ! Another batsman has thrown away a start. Bell walks away gutted after finding the fielder in the deep. This was pitched up and around the off-stump line , Bell swung away through the line , got a good piece of wood on that , he did n't bother to keep it down. Starc runs across to his left from deep square leg , keeps his eyes fixed on the ball and completes a good running catch. 2nd wicket for Marsh , England stumble further. Bell c Starc b M Marsh 36 ( 45 ) [ 4s-4 ] M Marsh to Bell , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 13.3 M Marsh to Bell , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Bell drops it in front of backward point 13.2 M Marsh to J Root , 1 run , full and on Root 's pads , whipped away in front of square on the on-side for a single 13.1 M Marsh to J Root , no run , on a length and just outside off , Root presses across and drives it towards mid-on 12.6 Watson to Bell , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Bell presses forward and drives it towards extra cover 12.5 Watson to Bell , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Bell prods forward and defends it towards point 12.4 Watson to Bell , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Bell drops it in front of cover-point , Root wants a single and is sent back 12.3 Watson to Bell , 2 runs , Watson shortens his length outside off , Bell works it away square behind point for a couple of runs 12.2 Watson to Bell , 2 runs , short and on the stumps , Bell swivels across and pulls it behind square on the on-side. Johnson gets across , puts in the slide and saves a couple of runs 12.1 Watson to J Root , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , Root stays back and punches it past cover for a single Shane Watson , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 11.6 M Marsh to Bell , FOUR , width on offer from Marsh , Bell stays behind the line and cracks it square past point. Finch is very square at sweeper cover and the ball beats him into the ropes 11.5 M Marsh to J Root , 1 run , on a good length and angling into Root , nudged in front of mid-wicket for a single 11.4 M Marsh to J Root , no run , short and holding its line outside off , Root was looking to pull , plays a bit too early and gets an inside edge to the left of Haddin. He tumbles across and saves some runs 11.3 M Marsh to Bell , 1 run , back of a length and well outside off , steered away towards third man for a single 11.2 M Marsh to Bell , no run , on a good length and well outside off , steered away with an open face towards point 11.1 M Marsh to Bell , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Bell gets behind the line and defends it with an angled bat 10.6 Johnson to J Root , no run , Johnson shortens his length outside off , Root stays behind the line and defends it 10.5 Johnson to Bell , 3 runs , signs of aggression from Bell , this was pitched up and held its line outside off , Bell gets underneath and slices it over extra cover , runs hard and gets back for the third run 10.4 Johnson to J Root , 1 run , full and well outside off , Root reaches out and squeezes it towards third man for a single Finch was roaming around not knowing where to go in the last over , he was in the slips , moved across and was then sent over towards short mid-wicket by skipper Bailey 10.3 Johnson to J Root , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Root gets well forward and drives it towards mid-off 10.2 Johnson to J Root , no run , another sharp bouncer from Johnson , but equally well played by Root , gets his wrists down and allows this ball to go past his shoulder 10.1 Johnson to J Root , no run , nasty lifter from Johnson , short and just outside off , Root does well to drop his gloves and lets the ball whizz past his nose 9.6 M Marsh to Bell , no run , Smith saved a certain boundary there , short and wide from Marsh , Bell cracked it to the right of backward point. Smith dives parallel to the ground and brings out a smart save 9.5 M Marsh to J Root , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , Root plays with an angled bat towards third man for a single Joe Root , right handed bat , comes to the crease 9.4 M Marsh to Ballance , out Caught by Finch ! ! The plan has worked like a charm for Australia. Australia are delighted and so they should be. This was pitched up and held its line outside off , Ballance went for the big drive , does n't get his weight behind the line , that meant he could n't keep the drive down , ends up spooning it straight into the bucket like hands of Finch at short mid-wicket. The move to play an extra batsman has backfired for England. They are in some trouble now. Ballance c Finch b M Marsh 10 ( 13 ) [ 4s-2 ] M Marsh to Ballance , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 9.3 M Marsh to Ballance , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Ballance gets across and defends it towards the off-side The slip moves across to short mid-wicket 9.2 M Marsh to Ballance , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Ballance gets behind the line and defends it A slip is in for the left-hander 9.1 M Marsh to Bell , 1 run , short and well outside off , Bell swivels across and pulls it in front of mid-wicket for a single A short mid-wicket is in place for Marsh Mitchell Marsh , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 8.6 Johnson to Bell , 1 run , that 's an excellent stop from Bailey at mid-off , saves three runs for his team , this was pitched up and held its line outside off , Bell leaned forward and drove it to the left of mid-off. Bailey threw himself and stops it cleanly , keeps the batsmen down to a single 8.5 Johnson to Bell , no run , Johnson shortens his length outside off , Bell makes room outside leg and defends it to the right of 2nd slip. He wants a single and is sent back , the fielder makes a direct hit at the striker 's end but Bell was well in 8.4 Johnson to Bell , no run , tad fuller and shaping away from well outside off , another easy leave for the batsman 8.3 Johnson to Bell , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from well outside off , left alone 8.2 Johnson to Bell , FOUR , that 's an excellent shot from Bell , pitched up and holding its line outside off , Bell waits on it , uses his wrists and goes up and over cover , the ball races away to the fence in a hurry 8.1 Johnson to Bell , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Bell presses half forward and punches it towards mid-off 7.6 Hazlewood to Ballance , no run , Hazlewood keeps it full and gets it to shape away from outside off , left alone 7.5 Hazlewood to Ballance , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away from outside off , left alone 7.4 Hazlewood to Ballance , no run , on a good length and on off , Ballance presses across and nudges it towards the on-side 7.3 Hazlewood to Bell , 1 run , back of a length and on the off-stump line , Bell looks to defend with an angled bat , gets an inside edge past the pitch and towards the on-side , Ballance calls for a quick single and gets it with ease 7.2 Hazlewood to Ballance , 1 run , full and on off , Ballance presents the full face of the bat and punches it back towards the bowler. He gets a hand onto it and deflects it away wide of the man at mid-on 7.1 Hazlewood to Ballance , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Ballance shuffles across and defends it back towards the bowler 6.6 Johnson to Bell , no run , Johnson shortens his length and gets this one to nip away from off , Bell does n't need to play at those , left alone 6.6 Johnson to Bell , wide , short and angling well down leg-side , wide called 6.5 Johnson to Bell , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Bell gets behind the line and defends it towards the off-side 6.4 Johnson to Bell , no run , fuller length delivery and in that corridor outside off , looking to tempt Bell into the drive , he resists and lets it go 6.3 Johnson to Ballance , 1 run , back of a length and well outside off , steered away behind square on the off-side , a single to third man 6.2 Johnson to Bell , leg byes , 1 run , too short and too straight from Johnson , ends up drifting onto Bell 's thigh-pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away towards long leg 6.1 Johnson to Bell , no run , and he gets the line right straightaway , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Bell covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go Mitchell Johnson replaces Starc.. Two slips in place Mitchell Johnson , comes into the attack 5.6 Hazlewood to Ballance , FOUR , floaty wide half-volley from Hazlewood , Ballance gets a big stride forward , meets the ball on top of the bounce and punches it through extra cover for a boundary 5.5 Hazlewood to Ballance , no run , short of a length and shaping away from well outside off , left alone 5.4 Hazlewood to Bell , 1 run , Hazlewood is struggling here , once again full and on Bell 's pads , whipped away behind square on the on-side for a single 5.3 Hazlewood to Bell , 2 runs , full and nipping back into Bell , he looks to drive and gets a thick inside edge behind square on the on-side for a brace 5.2 Hazlewood to Bell , 2 runs , short and on the stumps , Bell swivels across and pulls it over square leg , gets back for the second run 5.1 Hazlewood to Bell , no run , full and on Bell 's pads , he looked to flick and misses , Haddin dives across and holds onto the ball after it clipped the pads It has become cool as the sun goes down. The umpires have called for their jackets. . 4.6 Starc to Ballance , no run , Starc digs one short and just outside off , Ballance drops his wrists and lets it go 4.5 Starc to Ballance , FOUR , almost bowled , this was full and just outside off , Ballance was late in bringing his bat down , that was bowled at 149 kmph , the inside edge is found and it races away past the off-stump Gary Ballance , left handed bat , comes to the crease 4.4 Starc to Moeen Ali , out Caught by Bailey ! ! Moeen has thrown it away ! Looked very ugly on first view , this was short of a length and just outside off , not the line or length to attempt the pull , Moeen was cramped up on the shot , gets it very high on the bat and offers a dolly to Bailey at mid-on. The Aussie skipper does n't drop those , Starc has struck and it 's a deserving wicket as well. Moeen Ali c Bailey b Starc 10 ( 13 ) [ 4s-2 ] Starc to Moeen Ali , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 4.3 Starc to Bell , 1 run , back of a length and angling away from outside off , chopped away towards third man for a single 4.2 Starc to Bell , no run , tad fuller and on middle , Bell presses forward and defends it back towards the bowler 4.1 Starc to Bell , no run , short and well outside off , Bell was hopping across as he looked to ramp it over the keeper , beaten for sheer pace 3.6 Hazlewood to Moeen Ali , FOUR , this is even better , pitched up and right in the zone for the drive , Moeen leans forward and drills it through extra cover for another boundary , 14 came from the over 3.5 Hazlewood to Moeen Ali , FOUR , that 's easy pickings for Moeen , Hazlewood has n't got his length right here , this one was pushed full and wide outside off , Moeen gets a big stride forward and drills it over cover-point for a boundary 3.4 Hazlewood to Moeen Ali , no run , full and on the stumps , Moeen presses forward and punches it towards mid-on 3.3 Hazlewood to Bell , 1 run , back of a length and on the off-stump channel , dabbed away to the left of backward point for a single 3.3 Hazlewood to Bell , wide , Hazlewood drifts this one well down leg-side , wide called 3.2 Hazlewood to Bell , FOUR , cracking shot , smidgen of width on offer , Bell leans into the drive , plays on the up and laces it past extra cover for a boundary 3.1 Hazlewood to Bell , no run , full and on Bell 's pads , flicked straight to the fielder at mid-wicket 2.6 Starc to Moeen Ali , no run , Starc shortens his length outside off , Moeen is hurried onto the defensive push , the bottom hand comes off as he pushes it towards the off-side 2.5 Starc to Bell , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Bell rides with the bounce and dabs it down towards third man for a single 2.4 Starc to Bell , no run , Starc goes full and gets it to shape away from well outside off , left alone 2.3 Starc to Bell , FOUR , edged and four , that was intentional from Bell , on a good length and holding its line outside off , Bell waits on it , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and gets a thick edge past 2nd slip 2.2 Starc to Bell , no run , short of a length and angling back into Bell , he was shuffling across on the flick and is struck high on the thigh pad 2.1 Starc to Bell , no run , Starc shortens his length on off , Bell gets behind the line and defends it 1.6 Hazlewood to Moeen Ali , 2 runs , on a good length and well outside off , sliced away square behind point. Moeen wants a second run , the throw is n't the best and that allows him to make his ground 1.5 Hazlewood to Moeen Ali , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , Moeen Ali went chasing after that and missed 1.5 Hazlewood to Moeen Ali , wide , Hazlewood has n't got his radar right , sprays this one way outside off , wide called 1.4 Hazlewood to Bell , 1 run , short and angling down leg-side , Bell swivels across on the pull , ends up gloving it through to fine leg , off the mark with a single 1.3 Hazlewood to Bell , no run , tad fuller and a hint of nip away from outside off , Bell gets besides the line and defends it with an angled bat towards mid-off 1.2 Hazlewood to Bell , no run , Hazlewood shortens his length outside off , Bell gets behind the line and defends it 1.2 Hazlewood to Bell , wide , full and wide from Hazlewood , gets it to swing away further , Bell went chasing after that and missed. Haddin moves in front of 1st slip and holds onto the ball , Watson was taking evasive action at 1st slip 1.1 Hazlewood to Bell , no run , on a good length and shaping away from that channel outside off , Bell lifts his bat and lets it go Josh Hazlewood , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Starc to Moeen Ali , no run , aborted appeal for a caught behind , Starc shortens his length and gets this one to hold its line , Moeen went swishing at that , there was n't any noise , presumably no nick as well , the bowler and the slip cordon go up in an appeal , but stop almost immediately 0.5 Starc to Moeen Ali , no run , tad fuller and shaping back into Moeen 's pads , he falls across on the flick and is struck high on the pads 0.4 Starc to Moeen Ali , no run , short and rising onto Moeen , he gets on top of the bounce and cuts it to the right of backward point , Warner dives and stops some runs 0.3 Starc to Moeen Ali , no run , Starc shortens his length and angles one back into Moeen , he shuffles across and defends it 0.2 Starc to Moeen Ali , no run , swing for Starc , on a good length and shaping away from well outside off , lures Moeen into fishing at that , he plays well away from his body and misses 0.1 Starc to Moeen Ali , no run , the bumper first up , short and just outside off , good pace and bounce for Starc , Moeen drops his wrists and sways away from the line Moeen Ali and Bell are at the crease. Moeen Ali is on strike. Starc will open the attack Two slips in place as Starc steams in. . Welcome back.. England won the toss , asked Australia to bat and dropped Finch on 0. He went on to crack the first hundred of 2015 World Cup and Australia ended on a massive 342/9 , their highest ODI score against England. Can the English batsmen show some fight ? This target will take some chasing and it will be interesting to see England 's approach with the bat. Take a break and be right back here for the second innings . Glenn Maxwell : 'That was very nice to get a couple out off the middle and I built on after an amazing start from the boys. I think 342 is going to be a very good total for us to defend. I think it ( pitch ) is going to crumble and dry up a little bit. I think it was pretty dry and slow when we were out there. Hopefully , we can take the pace off a little bit , I reckon it will be very hard to chase.' For a brief period , England made a comeback by taking a slew of wickets. In particular , Stuart Broad bowled with verve and purpose to snare two wickets in a single over. However , Finch and George Bailey consolidated Australia 's innings with a century stand. Finch targeted straight boundaries and played shots square of the wicket on either side to keep the scoreboard moving. Once he was run out by a bullet-like direct-hit from Eoin Morgan , Maxwell and Mitchell Marsh with lethal blows , dismantled the English attack. Maxwell also notched up his fifty in a mere 30 balls. Steven Finn then signed off in style and bagged a hat-trick off the last three balls of the innings to finish with a fifer . After England won the toss and elected to bowl , Aaron Finch played a crunching innings of 135 to take the hosts to a monstrous score of 342 for 9 in their allotted 50 overs. George Bailey and Glenn Maxwell also played their part by compiling key knocks. For England , James Anderson started on a good note and should have taken the wicket of Finch , but Chris Woakes dropped an easy catch at short mid-wicket to give the opener a reprieve. The drop catch proved costly , as Finch flayed the English attack to all corners of the ground and composed his sixth ton in ODIs. He now holds the record for the highest individual score in any England versus Australia game in the history of World Cups . 49.6 Finn to Johnson , out Caught by J Anderson ! ! Finn gets the 37th hat-trick in ODI history. This is the first hat-trick by an Englishman in a World Cup. He is delighted as he ends up with a 5-fer as well. It was just short of a good length , Johnson backs away and looks to flat-bat it over mid-off , but ca n't get the elevation. He ends up hitting it straight to Anderson and Finn is extremely happy as his teammates celebrate the hat-trick. Johnson c J Anderson b Finn 0 ( 1 ) Finn to Johnson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Mitchell Starc , left handed bat , comes to the crease Hat-trick ball coming up.. . 49.5 Finn to Maxwell , out Caught by J Root ! ! Stunning catch from Root to dismiss the Big Show. Finn picks his 4th wicket of the innings and Maxwell walks off to a great applause. About the wicket , Maxwell backed away yet again and lofts this fuller delivery towards long-off , he got it straight and Root runs to his right , dives and takes a brilliant catch. Maxwell c J Root b Finn 66 ( 40 ) [ 4s-11 ] Finn to Maxwell , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Mitchell Johnson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 49.4 Finn to Haddin , out Caught by Broad ! ! Haddin goes now in trying to go big. Haddin was standing outside off to this length delivery , he has a big heave at it , but ends up getting a thick outside edge that goes very high in the air , Broad from third man runs forward , dives and takes a good tumbling catch. Good effort from the lanky pacer. Haddin c Broad b Finn 31 ( 14 ) [ 4s-5 ] Finn to Haddin , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 49.3 Finn to Maxwell , 1 run , moves away yet again and pulls this one hard , but straight to deep mid-wicket 49.2 Finn to Maxwell , FOUR , length delivery on the stumps , Maxwell backs away and cuts it to sweeper cover fence over the infield , it was a great shot as all the fielders were inside the circle on the off-side 49.1 Finn to Haddin , 3 runs , bowls this one way wide outside off , Haddin chases it and goes hard at it , he gets it over the fielder at backward point , the third man fielder runs to his right , dives full length and pulls it back just in time to save a run for his side as the batsmen took three easily Finn to bowl the last over of the Australian innings Steven Finn [ 9.0-0-63-2 ] is back into the attack 48.6 J Anderson to Maxwell , FOUR , Maxwell ends the over with a boundary , it was on a length and on the stumps , Maxwell makes room as he backs away and heaves it wide of long-on , where the fielder dived to his right but failed to stop the ball 48.5 J Anderson to Maxwell , no run , good bowl from Anderson , it was the yorker on the stumps , all Maxwell can do is to dig it out into the off-side 48.4 J Anderson to Maxwell , no run , 126.4kph slowish delivery outside off , Maxwell backs away and looks to go really hard at it , but ca n't make a connection and the keeper collects 48.3 J Anderson to Haddin , 1 run , Haddin moves away and Anderson follows him with a full one , eased down to long-on for a single 48.2 J Anderson to Haddin , FOUR , short and slow again , Haddin backs away , opens the face of the bat and guides it past a diving backward point for back-to-back boundaries 48.1 J Anderson to Haddin , FOUR , slower back of a length delivery wide outside off , Haddin backs away and slaps it inside-out over cover for another boundary , Haddin is playing really well here James Anderson [ 9.0-0-54-0 ] is back into the attack 47.6 Broad to Maxwell , no run , bowls a bumper this time , Maxwell was looking to ramp it over at first , but pulls out at the last moment. He probably did that thinking it would be called a wide , but the umpire did n't agree with him and that 's the end of the over 47.5 Broad to Haddin , 1 run , Haddin moves away from his stumps and Broad follows him with a yorker , Haddin jams it out to mid-on and the batsmen rush through for a single 47.4 Broad to Haddin , FOUR , Haddin gets it right this time , it was short and Haddin waits for it before helping it over the short third man fielder for another four 47.3 Broad to Haddin , no run , Haddin backs away and looks to cut this shortish delivery after backing away , ca n't connect and Buttler gloves it 47.2 Broad to Haddin , 2 runs , low full toss from Broad , Haddin drills it down the ground and comes back for the second as Ballance at long-on runs to his left , puts in the dive and stops the ball , good fielding effort from the English batsman 47.1 Broad to Haddin , FOUR , delicate ! It was just short of a good length and was on top of off , Haddin backs away and plays it very late , he opens the bat face and gets it past the short third man fielder , who was fine , but Haddin 's dab was even finer Another bowling change as Broad comes onto bowl his last over Stuart Broad [ 9.0-0-55-2 ] is back into the attack 46.6 Woakes to Haddin , 1 run , slightly fuller from Woakes , Haddin knocks it to long-on and he will keep the strike 46.5 Woakes to Haddin , FOUR , short and outside off , Haddin hangs back and pulls it to the cow corner fence , good shot from the wicket keeper-batsman 46.4 Woakes to Haddin , 2 runs , high full toss from Woakes and it was on Haddin 's pads , Haddin should have done better there , but he gets a couple as he helps it behind square on the on-side 46.3 Woakes to Maxwell , 1 run , backs away yet again and Woakes gets it right this time , it was fuller and cramps Maxwell for room , the ball rolls away towards mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat and the batsmen take a single 46.2 Woakes to Maxwell , 2 runs , Maxwell backs away and Woakes follows him with a length ball , Maxwell has a swing at it and gets it to the right of Moeen Ali at deep mid-wicket , easy couple for the batsmen 46.1 Woakes to Haddin , 1 run , Haddin gets off the mark and gives the strike back to Maxwell. It was on a length outside off , Haddin bunts it hard to deep extra cover. A loud cheer from the crowd as Australia reach 300 45.6 Finn to Maxwell , FOUR , fourth successive boundary for Maxwell , this was on a length but the line was poor as it was on the pads , Maxwell glances it fine and the ball runs away to the fine leg fence yet again 45.5 Finn to Maxwell , FOUR , Big Show is in a hurry , he brings up his 10th ODI fifty with his third consecutive boundary , it was short and at the batsman , Maxwell pulls it to the fine leg fence , superbly timed by Maxwell. He raises his bat and acknowledges the applause 45.4 Finn to Maxwell , FOUR , very fine , dropped ! Buttler drops this , but it was a tough chance , it was slightly short and outside off , Maxwell has a wild swing at it , he gets a top edge that goes fine , Buttler jumps and gets a hand on it , but ca n't hold onto it and the ball races away 45.3 Finn to Maxwell , FOUR , superb batting from Maxwell as he dispatches this ball to the fence , it was shortish and wide outside off , Maxwell hangs back and cuts it over backward point , the ball crashes into the fence after a bounce 45.2 Finn to Maxwell , 2 runs , touch fuller and outside off , Maxwell drills it hard wide of long-off , the batsmen take a couple Brad Haddin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 45.1 Finn to M Marsh , out Caught by J Root ! ! Marsh goes while trying to accelerate. It was just short of a good length and little wide of off , Marsh was looking to go big , but ends up slicing it. The ball goes very high in the air and Root at long-off takes a simple catch. Australia are six down now. M Marsh c J Root b Finn 23 ( 20 ) [ 4s-3 ] Finn to M Marsh , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Steven Finn [ 8.0-0-45-1 ] is back into the attack 44.6 Woakes to Maxwell , FOUR , poor , poor delivery to end the over , Woakes this one on the pads , Maxwell tickles it fine past the diving keeper and the ball runs away to the fence , this was the fifth boundary for the Big Show 44.5 Woakes to Maxwell , no run , 122.5kph slower short ball from Woakes , Maxwell backs away and looks to hit it hard , but mistimes the flat-batted shot to the fielder at cover 44.4 Woakes to M Marsh , 1 run , slightly fuller this time and on the pads , Marsh works it past mid-wicket for a single 44.3 Woakes to M Marsh , 2 runs , shortish delivery on middle and leg , Marsh pulls it behind square , the fielder from deep square leg runs to his right and stops the ball after putting in the dive , the batsmen come back for the second 44.2 Woakes to M Marsh , FOUR , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Marsh backs away and bunts it straight down the ground , the last ball went to the right of the long-on fielder and this one goes to his left , but both times the ball beat the fielder to the fence , good batting from Marsh 44.1 Woakes to M Marsh , FOUR , poor short ball from Woakes , it was banged in short and was the slower one as well , it sits up nicely for Marsh , who smashes the pull wide of long-on , the fielder at long-on had no chance of cutting that off 43.6 J Anderson to Maxwell , FOUR , a boundary to end the over , Anderson was looking for the yorker , but ends up bowling an overpitched delivery a little wide outside off , Maxwell was backing away and lofts it inside-out over extra cover for a boundary , it was a good over from Anderson until that point 43.5 J Anderson to M Marsh , 1 run , eases this one down to long-on for another run 43.4 J Anderson to Maxwell , 1 run , too quick for the Big Show this time , it was a short delivery at the batsman , Maxwell looks to pull , but ca n't time it right , the batsmen take a single as the ball dribbles away to mid-wicket 43.3 J Anderson to M Marsh , 1 run , just short of a good length and on off , Marsh bunts it to long-on for a single 43.2 J Anderson to Maxwell , 1 run , slower short ball from Anderson , Maxwell pulls it to mid-wicket and sets off for a single , the fielder has a shy at the non-striker 's end , an accurate throw might have made things closer , but Maxwell reaches the other end in time 43.1 J Anderson to Maxwell , no run , fullish delivery from Anderson , Maxwell was backing away and ca n't get it past cover Morgan is making bowling changes over after over. Now , Anderson comes back James Anderson [ 8.0-0-46-0 ] is back into the attack 42.6 Woakes to Maxwell , leg byes , 1 run , Maxwell backs away and Woakes follows him with a fullish delivery , Maxwell ca n't get it away and the ball rolls away into the off-side off his pad , the batsmen sneak in a leg bye 42.5 Woakes to M Marsh , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , Marsh pulls it behind square for another single 42.4 Woakes to Maxwell , 1 run , length delivery angling in on the stumps , Maxwell whips it to fine leg 42.3 Woakes to Maxwell , no run , 118kph slower short ball from Woakes , it fools Maxwell , who was too early into the pull and wears it on his arm , good ball from Woakes 42.2 Woakes to M Marsh , 1 run , short delivery from Woakes , Marsh pulls it to fine leg and gives Maxwell the strike 42.1 Woakes to M Marsh , FOUR , Marsh gets going now , it was on a length and around off , Marsh drives uppishly and to the left of mid-on , who did n't stand a chance of stopping that , the ball crashes into the fence Chris Woakes [ 7.0-0-32-1 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Broad to Maxwell , FOUR , another boundary for Maxwell , this is good batting from the Big Show , Maxwell comes down the track and heaves this length ball to the long-on fence , he did n't time it perfectly , but got enough bat to get it over the mid-on fielder and the ball runs away to the fence 41.5 Broad to Maxwell , FOUR , back of a length delivery around off and middle , Maxwell backs away and heaves it to the long-on fence 41.4 Broad to Maxwell , no run , just short of a good length and on off , Maxwell was looking to run it down to third man , but gets it too fine , the keeper moves to his right and collects the ball No close-in fielders for Broad 41.3 Broad to M Marsh , 1 run , length delivery on the stumps , Marsh pushes it towards cover point and gets to the other end 41.2 Broad to Maxwell , 1 run , another one that 's full and around off , Maxwell was looking to drive it through the off-side , but checks his shot at the last moment , the ball goes uppishly to the left of the fielder at mid-off and the batsmen take a single 41.1 Broad to Maxwell , no run , fuller in length and outside off , Maxwell was looking to run it down to third man , the ball goes past his blade , good ball to start a new spell Stuart Broad [ 8.0-0-45-2 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Finn to M Marsh , no run , slower short ball from Finn just outside off , Marsh pulls hard , but ca n't get it past Root at short mid-wicket , who dives to his left and makes a good stop 40.5 Finn to M Marsh , no run , length delivery outside off , Marsh comes on the front foot and pushes it to cover 40.4 Finn to M Marsh , no run , slightly back of a length delivery around off , Marsh stays on the back foot and defends it in front of cover 40.3 Finn to Maxwell , 1 run , just short of a good length and on top of off and middle , Maxwell stays back , opens the face of the bat and guides it to third man to get off strike 40.2 Finn to Maxwell , 2 runs , angling in on middle and leg , Maxwell works it past mid-wicket for a couple 40.1 Finn to Maxwell , no run , just short of a good length and on off , Maxwell hops in the crease and dabs it towards backward point , he was looking for the single there , but it went straight to the fielder Maxwell pulls out as Finn was coming onto bowl. He will have to bowl that one again 39.6 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , pushed through on middle and leg , Maxwell turns it behind square and he will keep the strike 39.5 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , 1 run , goes slightly across and clips this flighted delivery past a diving backward square leg fielder for another run 39.4 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , worked behind square from the crease for another single 39.3 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 2 runs , flighted delivery on middle stump , Maxwell goes down on one knee and looks to slog sweep , he gets a top edge that beats Taylor at short fine , who ran after the ball. The batsmen take a couple 39.2 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , 1 run , floated up on off and middle , Marsh goes across a touch and eases it down to long-on 39.1 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle stump line , Maxwell works it towards short mid-wicket for a single 38.6 Finn to Maxwell , 1 run , slightly back of a length and outside off , Maxwell taps it towards the point region and charges to the other end 38.5 Finn to M Marsh , 1 run , on a good length and outside off , Marsh pokes at it away from his body , gets an outside edge that runs away to third man and Marsh gets off the mark 38.4 Finn to M Marsh , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Marsh stays inside the crease and bunts it towards point 38.3 Finn to M Marsh , no run , in the channel outside off , Marsh shoulders arms 38.2 Finn to M Marsh , no run , fullish delivery just outside off , Marsh drives it back towards the bowler Mitchell Marsh , right handed bat , comes to the crease 38.1 Finn to Bailey , out Bowled ! ! The Australian captain is gone. Finn is delighted and Australia lose another in quick succession. It was a slower delivery on a good length , Bailey was looking to steer it down to third man , but was too early into the shot. He ends up dragging it back onto middle and leg stump and Finn is pumped now. Bailey goes after a good fifty. Bailey b Finn 55 ( 69 ) [ 4s-3 ] Finn to Bailey , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 37.6 Moeen Ali to Bailey , 1 run , floated up on middle and leg , Bailey comes down the track and works it behind square for a single 37.5 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , flighted delivery on off , Maxwell slog sweeps it to deep square leg , it was timed sweetly by Maxwell , but straight to the fielder 37.4 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , FOUR , the Big Show 's show has started , it was floated up on off and middle , Maxwell employs the reverse sweep and gets it over the backward point fielder for his first boundary 37.3 Moeen Ali to Bailey , 1 run , pushed through quicker on middle and leg , Bailey moves across and turns it towards backward square leg , who dives to his left and keeps the batsmen down to a single 37.2 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , drifting on the pads , Maxwell tucks it away behind square for a single 37.1 Moeen Ali to Bailey , 1 run , tossed up on off , Bailey clips it towards deep square leg 36.6 Finn to Bailey , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off , Bailey cuts it square of the wicket for a single 36.5 Finn to Maxwell , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Maxwell stays inside the crease and dabs it towards third man 36.4 Finn to Bailey , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Bailey guides it to third man for a single Glenn Maxwell , right handed bat , comes to the crease 36.3 Finn to Finch , out Finch Run Out ! ! Finch departs after a brilliant knock. He goes off to a standing ovation from the crowd as he waves his bat. It was a fullish delivery around off , Finch drives it to Morgan at mid-off and goes for the run , he had to run around the bowler as he was in his way and a direct-hit catches him short. The English fielders are delighted. Finch run out ( Eoin Morgan ) 135 ( 128 ) [ 4s-12 6s-3 ] Finn to Finch , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 36.3 Finn to Finch , wide , banged short and the ball was over the batsman 's head , wide given 36.2 Finn to Finch , 2 runs , short delivery from Finn , Finch pulls it to deep mid-wicket for a brace 36.1 Finn to Bailey , 3 runs , run-out chance missed ! Just short of a good length and outside off , Bailey knocks it over a leaping backward point fielder , the batsmen decide to come back for the third run as well , Finn was looking to collect the throw , but the ball rushes onto him and it bounces extra and Finn ca n't hold onto it and Bailey makes his ground. By the way , that is also Bailey 's 15th ODI fifty Steven Finn [ 5.0-0-31-0 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Moeen Ali to Finch , FOUR , flatter delivery from Ali , Finch backs away and cuts it square of the wicket , another boundary for Finch to end the over 35.5 Moeen Ali to Finch , SIX , that 's massive and in the stands , it was floated up by Ali , Finch goes down on one knee and slog sweeps it over the deep mid-wicket fence for a maximum 35.4 Moeen Ali to Finch , no run , backs away and looks to cut , Finch fails to make a connection 35.3 Moeen Ali to Finch , no run , drifting on the pads , Finch works it towards short fine and was looking for the single , he has to rush back into the crease , an accurate throw from Root might have been close , but at the end , Finch makes his ground 35.2 Moeen Ali to Finch , FOUR , employs the reverse sweep this time and dispatches it to the deep backward point fence , Ballance at backward point premeditated Finch 's movement and the ball went to his left instead of right 35.1 Moeen Ali to Finch , 2 runs , shortish and outside off , Finch cuts it towards deep backward point for a brace Moeen Ali [ 6.0-0-28-0 ] is back into the attack This is now the best partnership for any wicket for Australia in an Australia-England World Cup game. Previous best : Clarke and Ponting ( 112 ) in 2007. By the way. Australia have scored 33/0 in the batting powerplay . 34.6 J Anderson to Finch , 1 run , just short of a good length and just outside off , Finch dabs it to short third man for a single 34.5 J Anderson to Bailey , 1 run , a little shimmy down the track to this short delivery , Bailey pulls it to deep mid-wicket 34.4 J Anderson to Bailey , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Bailey cuts it to backward point 34.3 J Anderson to Bailey , 2 runs , banged in short and at the batsman , Bailey is hurried onto the pull and mistimes it completely , luckily for him the ball falls in no man 's land , the fielder from mid-on and deep mid-wicket were both running towards the ball , but could n't reach in time 34.2 J Anderson to Finch , 1 run , 124.2kph slowish short ball from Anderson , Finch pulls it towards deep mid-wicket , the ball goes on the bounce to the fielder 34.1 J Anderson to Bailey , 1 run , just short of a good length and on middle stump line , Bailey punches it to the right of the bowler , who slides but ca n't stop the ball , the batsmen take a single Anderson replaces Broad. Can he provide England the crucial breakthrough ? Let 's find out James Anderson [ 7.0-0-40-0 ] is back into the attack 33.6 Woakes to Bailey , 1 run , bit straighter in line , Bailey tucks it towards short mid-wicket and the batsmen pinch a quick single , he will keep the strike 33.5 Woakes to Bailey , FOUR , fullish delivery around off , Bailey comes on the front foot and lofts it to the long-off fence , the fielder was inside the circle and the ball races away to the fence 33.4 Woakes to Finch , 1 run , another one that 's short and at the batsman , Finch pulls it behind square on the on-side , he was not in total control of that shot as the ball hurried onto him , but he did well to send it along the ground 33.3 Woakes to Bailey , 1 run , on a good length and outside off , Bailey tries to steer it past short third man , but the batsmen can only take a single as the short third man fielder dives to his right and makes the stop 33.2 Woakes to Finch , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Finch stays inside the crease , opens the face of the bat and dabs it to short third man 33.1 Woakes to Bailey , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , Bailey swivels and pulls it towards deep square leg , it was in the air for some time as it did n't come off the middle of the bat , but luckily for Bailey , it was in the gap Drinks are on the field now. Excellent partnership between the two batsmen. They made light work of the mid-innings slump , took their time to settle and have now set themselves up for the final charge. How badly will England rue the dropped chance when Finch was on 0 ? 32.6 Broad to Finch , no run , on a good length and on off , Finch shuffles across and drives it towards mid-wicket 32.5 Broad to Finch , no run , tad fuller and on off , Finch was setting himself up for the big shot , changes his mind and defends it back towards the bowler 32.4 Broad to Finch , no run , short of a length and on off , Finch shuffles across and defends it towards mid-on 32.3 Broad to Bailey , 1 run , tad fuller and just outside off , worked with an angled bat and past cover for a single 32.2 Broad to Finch , 1 run , Broad keeps it short and well outside off , punched off the back-foot and to the right of mid-off for a single 32.1 Broad to Bailey , 1 run , back of a length and well outside off , punched away off the back-foot towards deep cover Morgan is ringing in the changes. Broad comes back and is welcomed with a round of boos from the MCG crowd Here is our man , Bharath Ramraj 's analysis : Aaron Finch and George Bailey consolidated after Australia lost a slew of wickets to find themselves in a spot of bother at 70 for 3. Finch twinned good defence with power-packed shots to keep the scorecard ticking. James Anderson , by pulling his length back , bowled a few tight overs. Finch then , opened up his shoulders to thump Anderson for a six down the ground and also took a heavy toll on Moeen Ali 's bowling . Finch notched up his 6th ODI hundred. He now holds the record for the highest individual score in any England versus Australia game in the history of World Cups. The track should stay true for the entire duration of the match. With Australia looking set to amass a mammoth total on the board , England 's batsmen have an uphill task on their hands . Stuart Broad [ 7.0-0-42-2 ] is back into the attack 31.6 Woakes to Bailey , 1 run , tad fuller and just outside off , pushed with soft hands and in front of mid-on for a single 31.5 Woakes to Finch , 1 run , full and on the stumps , Finch drives it in the air , but the ball drops well in front of Broad at mid-on 31.4 Woakes to Finch , no run , fraction short and on the stumps , Finch makes room and dabs it to the left of backward point 31.3 Woakes to Finch , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Finch hops across , plays with an angled bat and defends it towards backward point 31.2 Woakes to Finch , 2 runs , too straight from Woakes , ends up drifting onto Finch 's pads , worked in front of square on the on-side , the batsmen run hard and get back for the second run 31.1 Woakes to Finch , no run , appeal for a caught behind , but it went straight off the pads , Finch was looking to flick and missed. Buttler does well to tumble across to his left and saves some runs Chris Woakes replaces Moeen Ali from the other end Chris Woakes [ 5.0-0-19-1 ] is back into the attack 30.6 Finn to Finch , 1 run , short and on the stumps , Finch swivels across and pulls it over square leg , one bounce and to Moeen in the deep 30.5 Finn to Finch , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Finch shuffles across and defends it towards the on-side 30.4 Finn to Finch , FOUR , Finch is opening up here , this was pitched up and held its line outside off , Finch presents the full face of the bat and punches it back past the bowler , no chance for the fielder at mid-off 30.3 Finn to Finch , 2 runs , full and on Finch 's pads , worked away backward of square on the on-side for a brace 30.2 Finn to Finch , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Finch prods across and defends it with an angled bat 30.1 Finn to Finch , FOUR , hundred on World Cup debut for Finch , his 2nd hundred at the MCG , he lifts his helmet , gets a big hug from his skipper and soaks in the admiration from the capacity crowd , leaped in the air as he completed the shot. Coming to the ball , this was full and on his pads , nudged away past short fine for a boundary Another change in bowling. Finn replaces Broad and Australia have decided to take the batting powerplay Steven Finn [ 4.0-0-20-0 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Moeen Ali to Finch , 1 run , Moeen floats one on the middle stump line , Finch works it in front of Taylor at mid-wicket and calls for a quick single , easily done in the end 29.5 Moeen Ali to Finch , no run , this one is dropped short and wide outside off , Finch backs away and cuts it straight to the fielder at cover-point 29.4 Moeen Ali to Bailey , 1 run , Moeen drops one short and on the stumps , Bailey rocks back and pulls it behind square on the on-side for a single 29.3 Moeen Ali to Finch , 1 run , pushed through and on Finch 's pads , clipped behind square on the on-side 29.2 Moeen Ali to Finch , no run , flighted and wider outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover 29.1 Moeen Ali to Finch , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Finch goes back and gets an inside edge towards the on-side 28.6 Broad to Finch , leg byes , 1 run , Broad goes for the yorker and offers a high full-toss , Finch was shuffling across on the whip and misses , Broad goes on an imploring appeal , but it was heading well down leg 28.5 Broad to Finch , no run , Broad keeps it fuller and outside off , Finch presses across and defends it back towards the bowler 28.4 Broad to Finch , no run , Broad slips in the slower ball , on a length and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler 28.3 Broad to Bailey , 1 run , too short and too straight from Broad , ends up drifting onto Bailey 's pads , clipped away behind square on the on-side for a single 28.2 Broad to Bailey , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Bailey closes the face of the bat and defends it towards the on-side 28.1 Broad to Bailey , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Bailey stays behind the line and defends it 27.6 Moeen Ali to Finch , no run , Moeen drifts one outside off , defended towards the on-side 27.5 Moeen Ali to Bailey , 1 run , good use of the feet there by Bailey , comes down the track and bunts one down towards long-on 27.4 Moeen Ali to Finch , 1 run , slower and on Finch 's pads , nudged behind square on the on-side for a single 27.3 Moeen Ali to Bailey , 1 run , more air and well outside off , driven down towards long-on for a single 27.2 Moeen Ali to Bailey , no run , Moeen drops one short and just outside off , Bailey backs away and mistimes the cut towards cover 27.1 Moeen Ali to Finch , 1 run , full toss from Moeen , punched down towards long-on for a single 26.6 Broad to Bailey , no run , on a good length and angling back into Bailey , much better from Broad , the batsman is cramped for room and gets an inside edge onto his thigh pad 26.5 Broad to Bailey , FOUR , that 's hammered by Bailey , ordinary bowling from Broad , short and without any pace , easy pickings for Bailey , he rocks back , rolls his wrists and pulls it in front of square on the on-side for a boundary 26.4 Broad to Finch , 1 run , that 's good running from Bailey , calls Finch for a quick single as soon as this was dabbed to the right of cover-point 26.3 Broad to Bailey , 1 run , the bumper from Broad , does n't have the pace to trouble Bailey , he swivels across and pulls it past square leg for a single 26.2 Broad to Bailey , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Bailey gets behind the line and defends it towards the off-side 26.1 Broad to Bailey , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Bailey drives with a closed face and pushes it back towards the bowler Broad is back for a stint. . Stuart Broad [ 5.0-0-35-2 ] is back into the attack 25.6 Moeen Ali to Finch , no run , Moeen slows one outside off , Finch presses forward and defends it with soft hands , Buttler goes up in an appeal , but the impact was well outside off 25.5 Moeen Ali to Finch , no run , appeal for LBW , but the impact was well outside off , Finch was prodding forward on the defensive push and is struck on the pads 25.4 Moeen Ali to Finch , no run , slower and wider outside off , Finch gets a big stride forward and defends it with his pads 25.3 Moeen Ali to Bailey , 1 run , Moeen drifts one onto Bailey 's pads , tucked away in front of square on the on-side for a single 25.2 Moeen Ali to Finch , 1 run , tossed up and on off , driven down towards long-on for a single 25.1 Moeen Ali to Finch , FOUR , that 's nicely played by Finch , marginally short and wide outside off , Finch makes room , opens the face of the bat and cuts it square behind point , beats the two men in the ring and races away to the fence 24.6 J Root to Bailey , no run , fraction shorter and just outside off , Bailey stays back and defends it towards the off-side 24.5 J Root to Bailey , no run , Bailey comes down the track to a well flighted delivery and clips it towards mid-wicket Back over the wicket 24.4 J Root to Finch , 1 run , Root comes from round the wicket and drifts one onto Finch 's pads , clipped behind square on the on-side for a single 24.3 J Root to Finch , SIX , that went miles in the air , did n't look like Finch had middled it one bit , tossed up and on the stumps , Finch went for the big hoick , does n't get hold of the shot. For a moment , it looked like long-on had a chance , but the ball sails into the crowd 24.2 J Root to Finch , no run , pushed through flatter and on off , Finch backs away and drives it towards cover 24.1 J Root to Finch , FOUR , Finch will not let Root settle , this was tossed up and just outside off , Finch gets down on his knees and swings it wide of mid-on , a couple of bounces and over the ropes Joe Root , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 23.6 Moeen Ali to Bailey , no run , Moeen drops this one short and wide outside off , Bailey makes room and cuts it to the left of point , the fielder makes a tumbling stop 23.5 Moeen Ali to Finch , 1 run , tad flatter and just outside off , Finch stays back and taps it towards short third man 23.4 Moeen Ali to Finch , no run , slower and wider from Moeen , Finch gets well forward and blocks 23.3 Moeen Ali to Bailey , 1 run , a little shimmy down the track from Bailey , gets to the pitch of the ball and bunts it down towards long-on 23.2 Moeen Ali to Finch , 1 run , Moeen drifts one onto Finch 's pads , tucked past square leg for a single 23.1 Moeen Ali to Bailey , 1 run , pushed through by Moeen , worked behind square on the on-side for a single 22.6 J Anderson to Bailey , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Bailey steers it down towards third man for a single 22.5 J Anderson to Finch , 1 run , the bumper from Anderson , Finch rocks back , rolls his wrists over and pulls it past square leg for a single 22.4 J Anderson to Finch , no run , tad fuller and in that channel around off , Finch hops across and defends it towards the on-side 22.3 J Anderson to Finch , no run , on a good length and angling back into Finch , tucked away towards the on-side 22.2 J Anderson to Finch , SIX , massive , signs of aggression from Finch , this was full and wide from Anderson , Finch gets forward and underneath the length , sends it hoisting high and over mid-off , gets plenty of bat on that and it sails over the ropes for a maximum 22.1 J Anderson to Finch , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Finch prods across and defends it towards the on-side 21.6 Moeen Ali to Finch , 1 run , Moeen drifts one outside off , worked in front of square on the on-side for a single 21.5 Moeen Ali to Finch , FOUR , the lap-sweep from Finch this time , gets down on his knees , uses the pace of the bowler and helps it on its way , the fielder at backward square leg gets across , puts in the slide but the ball beats him to the fence 21.4 Moeen Ali to Bailey , 1 run , tossed up and on off , driven down towards long-on for a single 21.3 Moeen Ali to Bailey , no run , slower and wider from Moeen , defended towards the off-side 21.2 Moeen Ali to Bailey , no run , Bailey comes down the track to a well flighted delivery and looks to work it towards the on-side , gets a leading edge towards square leg , the keeper runs after the ball but it bounces away towards saftey 21.1 Moeen Ali to Bailey , FOUR , pre-meditated from Bailey , gets down on his knees early , uses the pace of Moeen and laps it very fine , the man in the deep is very square and the ball races away to the fence 20.6 J Anderson to Finch , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , punched back towards the bowler 20.5 J Anderson to Finch , 2 runs , Anderson drags the length back as Finch came down the track , he adjusts , swivels across , rolls his wrists and pulls it behind square on the on-side for a brace 20.4 J Anderson to Finch , no run , back of a length and in that channel outside off , punched off the back-foot towards mid-on 20.3 J Anderson to Finch , no run , full and slanting onto Finch 's pads , he presses across and tucks it towards mid-wicket 20.2 J Anderson to Finch , no run , width on offer from Anderson , Finch cracks it straight to the fielder at backward point 20.1 J Anderson to Finch , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , Finch prods across and defends it with an open face 19.6 Moeen Ali to Bailey , no run , a little shimmy down the track from Bailey , gets to the pitch of the ball and defends it with the turn , the ball rolls away towards mid-wicket 19.5 Moeen Ali to Finch , 1 run , this one is given more air , Finch gets a good stride forward and eases it down towards long-on for a single 19.4 Moeen Ali to Finch , no run , Moeen drifts one shorter and just outside off , Finch goes back and defends it towards the bowler 19.3 Moeen Ali to Finch , no run , tossed up and on off , Finch presses forward and defends it towards the on-side 19.2 Moeen Ali to Finch , no run , slower and just outside off , Finch gets well forward and blocks 19.1 Moeen Ali to Finch , no run , loud shout for LBW , but the height seemed to be the issue , Finch was looking to work across the line to this off-break , misses and is struck high on the pads , the impact was outside off as well Time for spin.. Moeen Ali is into the attack Moeen Ali , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 18.6 J Anderson to Bailey , 2 runs , too short and too wide from Anderson , allows Bailey to rock back on the cut , he gets it past point but the sub fielder , Jordan , gets across from sweeper cover and keeps them down to a couple of runs 18.5 J Anderson to Bailey , no run , tad fuller and in that corridor outside off , Bailey gets well forward and drives it towards mid-off 18.4 J Anderson to Bailey , no run , Anderson shortens his length outside off , Bailey plays with an angled bat and dabs it straight to backward point 18.3 J Anderson to Bailey , no run , much better from Anderson , on that channel just outside off and a hint of shape away , Bailey is lured into the drive and the ball whizzes past the outside edge 18.2 J Anderson to Bailey , no run , Anderson shortens his length and gets this one to angle back into Bailey , he was early into the flick , closes the face of the bat and gets a soft leading edge 18.1 J Anderson to Bailey , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Bailey gets a good stride forward and blocks Anderson back into the attack. Nobody close-in catching though James Anderson [ 4.0-0-28-0 ] is back into the attack 17.6 Finn to Finch , no run , loud shout for LBW , Finch was caught on the shuffle as he looked to work a length ball towards the on-side , misses and is struck high on the pads , the impact was around middle but the ball was slipping over. England decide against a review 17.5 Finn to Bailey , 3 runs , uppish and safe , this was short and wide outside off , Bailey was on his toes as he went for the cut , looks to roll his wrists over , ends up punching it uppishly , Bell was the fielder at backward point , he dives to his right but the ball evades him 17.4 Finn to Finch , 1 run , tad fuller and just outside off , brings Finch forward and into the drive , just a single square on the off-side 17.3 Finn to Finch , no run , Finn keeps it short and just outside off , Finch hops across and defends it towards the off-side 17.2 Finn to Finch , no run , good short ball from Finn , gets it to rear from a length , Finch hops across and fends it away with soft hands 17.1 Finn to Finch , 2 runs , back of a length and just outside off , Finch nudges it square behind point and decides to take on Moeen 's arm. Bailey was late in responding , but he manages to hurry back into the crease 16.6 Woakes to Bailey , no run , tad fuller and around the off-stump channel , Bailey closes the face of the bat and drives it towards mid-on 16.5 Woakes to Bailey , no run , back of a length and in that channel around off , Bailey shuffles across , has no room to free his arms and ends up tapping it towards mid-on 16.4 Woakes to Finch , 1 run , Woakes bangs one short and on the stumps , Finch swivels across on the pull , does n't get hold of the shot and the ball pops wide of mid-wicket for a single 16.3 Woakes to Bailey , 1 run , on a good length and on the stumps , Bailey shuffles across and pushes it towards mid-on for a single 16.2 Woakes to Bailey , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Bailey gets well forward and drives it towards mid-off 16.1 Woakes to Finch , 1 run , that 's a good half-stop at backward point , this was short and wide from Woakes , Finch got on top of the bounce and crunches it to the left of the fielder 15.6 Finn to Bailey , 2 runs , back of a length and well outside off , Bailey rides with the bounce , gets on top of the bounce and steers it square behind point for a brace 15.5 Finn to Finch , 1 run , Finn shortens his length and angles one back into Finch , worked in front of square on the on-side for a single 15.4 Finn to Bailey , 3 runs , tad fuller and holding its line outside off , Bailey gets a good stride forward , plays with an open face and works it square past point , the timing is sweet and the batsmen get back for the third run 15.3 Finn to Bailey , no run , Finn shortens his length and the line is just outside off , Bailey rides with the bounce and defends it 15.2 Finn to Bailey , no run , horrible mix-up between the two batsmen , but Bailey has enough time to get back , this was full and on off , Bailey presented the full face of the bat and punched it to the left of mid-off , he set-off immediately for the single , Finch was backing up and had his back to all the action , he then puts in the dive to make his ground as he thought Finn got a hand onto it. Hence he could not respond to Bailey 's call and the latter has to race back as he was half-way down the track , the throw from the fielder is n't the best and he gets back in 15.1 Finn to Finch , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Finch gets a big stride forward and drives it to the left of mid-off for a single Here is our man , Bharath Ramraj 's analysis of the first fifteen overs : In the second game of the 2015 World Cup between Australia and England , played in front of a jam-packed stadium at MCG , the visitors made a smart recovery after dropping a few catches early on in the innings. With nerves jangling , Aaron Finch , played the third ball of the innings straight to Chris Woakes at short mid-wicket , but was dropped. James Anderson was the unlucky bowler . After Taylor too dropped a tough chance at mid-off to give David Warner a reprieve , England lost the plot. Anderson , in an attempt to bowl the in-swinger , drifted onto the pads. Just in the nick of time though , Stuart Broad , Anderson 's partner-in-crime , by bowling a fullish length and generating swing , snared the wickets of Warner and Shane Watson. Woakes , followed up the efforts of Broad by shattering the stumps of Steve Smith. Smith , who has been very successful this summer , paid the price for shuffling across the stumps. Intriguingly , that method has paid him rich dividends , in recent times . That is the first drinks break of the game. England dropped both Finch and Warner early and the duo then upped the ante to bring up their fifty partnership in quick time. However , Broad got them back into the game by removing Warner and Watson off successive balls. Woakes came on and knocked over Smith to push Australia on the back foot. This is a crucial partnership for the co-hosts and they would want these two to carry on further . 14.6 Woakes to Bailey , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Bailey defends off the back foot 14.5 Woakes to Finch , 1 run , good length delivery from Woakes , Finch defends and gets a thickish inside edge that rolls to fine leg 14.4 Woakes to Bailey , 1 run , Bailey pulls but this time he hits it well wide of Taylor at short leg and Moeen Ali tidies up at deep square leg 14.3 Woakes to Bailey , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Bailey pushes it into the off-side 14.2 Woakes to Finch , 1 run , hops and tucks the short of length delivery through mid-wicket 14.1 Woakes to Finch , no run , good length delivery just outside off stump , Finch defends off the back foot 13.6 Finn to Finch , 1 run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Finch turns it to square leg for a sharp run 13.5 Finn to Finch , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Finch defends 13.4 Finn to Finch , no run , a loose shot away from the body. Finch tries to slash hard at this good length delivery and gets beaten 13.3 Finn to Finch , no run , keeps this close to the off stump , Finch defends well off the back foot 13.2 Finn to Finch , no run , short of length delivery from Finn , blocked 13.1 Finn to Bailey , 1 run , good length delivery outside off stump , Bailey pushes it past the man at point 12.6 Woakes to Bailey , 1 run , oopsy ! Bailey slips while trying to pull this short ball , luckily for him he does n't disturb the stumps as he falls onto the ground. The ball rolls along the ground to fine leg 12.5 Woakes to Bailey , no run , full and close to the off stump , Bailey defends off the front foot towards mid-off 12.4 Woakes to Bailey , no run , oh that 's hit James Taylor at short leg. Shortish delivery on the off stump , Bailey rocks back and pulls , thankfully , Taylor had his shin pads on. Otherwise , it would have broken a bone or two 12.3 Woakes to Bailey , no run , good length delivery on the off stump , Bailey defends 12.2 Woakes to Finch , 1 run , 7th ODI fifty for Finch. Fullish delivery outside off stump , Finch pushes it to mid-off and takes off , the fielder tries to have a shy at the stumps but he slips while doing so. Finch lifts his bat to acknowledge the applause 12.1 Woakes to Finch , 2 runs , short of length delivery outside off stump , Finch punches it off the back foot and beats backward point to his left. He moves on to 49 now 11.6 Finn to Bailey , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Bailey defends off the back foot 11.5 Finn to Bailey , no run , Bailey lets the ball to come close and defends softly towards point 11.4 Finn to Finch , 1 run , this short of length delivery nips back in slightly , Finch glances it to fine leg 11.3 Finn to Finch , no run , short of length delivery from Finn , Finch defends 11.2 Finn to Finch , FOUR , cracking shot ! Too short from Finn , a dreadful ball to a set batsman , it was on the leg stump as well , Finch jumped onto the back foot and easily pulled away along the ground and split fine leg and deep square leg to perfection 11.1 Finn to Finch , no run , a full ball to start with from Finn. Finch drives and picks out mid-on Steven Finn , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 10.6 Woakes to Finch , 1 run , good length delivery on the stumps , Finch looks to drive but gets a thick inside edge that rolls to fine leg 10.5 Woakes to Bailey , 1 run , good length delivery on the leg stump , Bailey tucks it to fine leg and opens his account 10.4 Woakes to Bailey , no run , oh that 's a close leave ! Fullish and just outside off stump , Bailey lunges forward and lets it go George Bailey , right handed bat , comes to the crease 10.3 Woakes to S Smith , out Bowled ! ! This is a great phase of play for England , they 've got the big wicket and it 's now three wickets in a space of 18 balls. This was the first time that Smith did n't look comfortable at the crease this summer. Full and outside off stump , Smith shuffles across and looks to drive but he leaves a big bat-pad gap , he was off balance while trying to meet the ball and hence he could n't find the middle of the bat. The ball takes a thick inside edge and rattles middle and off. S Smith b Woakes 5 ( 9 ) [ 4s-1 ] Woakes to S Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 10.2 Woakes to S Smith , no run , oh this good length delivery keeps a touch low and hits Smith on the pad , but he was well outside the line 10.1 Woakes to S Smith , FOUR , oh he 's pulled that through mid-on. Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Smith waits for the ball and pulls it in front of square , mid-on was very square and it went to his left. That was an incredible shot 9.6 Broad to Finch , no run , oh that short ball really took off. How 's that not a wide ? It went well above Finch 's head and the batsman is surprised. In fact , Buttler had to really jump high to grab the ball with his right hand 9.5 Broad to Finch , no run , short delivery on the off stump , Finch takes his bat out of the way to let it go. One for the over says umpire Dharmasena 9.4 Broad to Finch , 2 runs , this short of length delivery hurries onto Finch , the batsman just about manages to roll his wrists and tuck it through backward square leg , before fine leg could fire the throw back to the keeper , Finch completes two 9.3 Broad to S Smith , 1 run , Smith is off the mark. He goes right across the off stump and works this full delivery towards mid-wicket 9.2 Broad to Finch , 1 run , tucked away to backward square leg for a run 9.1 Broad to Finch , 2 runs , good length delivery on the off stump , Finch hops and defends , the ball takes a thick outside edge and rolls along the ground to deep backward point. Finch races back for the second and makes his ground before the throw comes in There was a man at short cover , but he 's now been moved to a fly slip position . 8.6 Woakes to S Smith , no run , that is a stylish , solid front foot defence from Smith to close out the over 8.5 Woakes to S Smith , no run , 'no , no , stay there ' is the call from Smith after defending this short of length delivery to mid-wicket 8.4 Woakes to S Smith , no run , harmless good length delivery outside off stump , simply left alone 8.3 Woakes to Finch , 1 run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Finch hops and turns it to backward square leg 8.2 Woakes to Finch , 2 runs , 'wait on ' is the call from Finch initially as the fielder at backward point dives to his right to stop the ball , but the cut shot was placed in the gap and they take two 8.1 Woakes to Finch , no run , Woakes starts off with a very full ball , Finch defends well Chris Woakes , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 7.6 Broad to S Smith , no run , appeal for caught behind , not given by umpire Dharmasena ! This is great thinking from Broad. After bowling a toe-crusher previously , he bangs this short and around the off stump , Smith goes for the pull but he was a little late. Luckily for him , the ball misses the edge en route to Buttler. England think about the review but decide against it 7.5 Broad to S Smith , no run , oh that 's a very good ball from Broad. Fast yorker on the off stump , Smith just about manages to dig it out Steven Smith , right handed bat , comes to the crease Alright , can Broad take a hat-trick here ? Interestingly , there is only one slip in place . 7.4 Broad to Watson , out Caught by Buttler ! ! Thank you very mucch , Shane Watson ! It 's full , it 's an outswinger and it 's an outside edge. Broad is on a hat-trick and suddenly the pendulum has swung England 's way. Brilliant ball first-up from Broad to Watson. Full and very close to the off stump , Watson had to play it. He covers the off stump line and tries to defend , but the ball takes a thick edge and Buttler takes an easy catch to his right before throwing the ball up in the air in joy. Watson c Buttler b Broad 0 ( 1 ) Broad to Watson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Shane Watson , right handed bat , comes to the crease 7.3 Broad to Warner , out Bowled ! ! What a response from Broad and he 's pumped. He 's charged up. Interestingly , this cross-seamed ball swung back into the left-hander. Full and fast from Broad , Warner is foxed by the late inward movement , he almost falls over while flicking the ball and it brushes the back pad before crashing into middle and off. England have managed to break this dangerous looking opening stand. Warner b Broad 22 ( 18 ) [ 4s-3 ] Broad to Warner , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 7.2 Broad to Warner , FOUR , he 's done it so easily ! Short again from Broad , Warner just transfers his weight onto the back foot and pulls it handsomely over square leg 7.1 Broad to Finch , 1 run , back of a length on the off stump , Finch helps it down to fine leg for Moeen Ali 6.6 J Anderson to Finch , 1 run , Finch tucks this to backward square leg and looks for two but the fielder got to the ball very quickly 6.5 J Anderson to Finch , no run , back of a length outside off stump , blocked off the back foot 6.4 J Anderson to Finch , no run , 'wait on , wait on , wait on ' says Finch after flicking this fuller length delivery gently towards backward square leg 6.3 J Anderson to Finch , no run , back of a length from Anderson again , Finch misses the flick and gets hit on the thigh pad 6.2 J Anderson to Finch , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Finch defends off the back foot 6.1 J Anderson to Finch , FOUR , Australia bring up their 50 in style ! Poor line from Anderson and he pays the penalty. A nothing short of length delivery down the leg-side , Finch just tickles it fine and beats fine leg 5.6 Broad to Finch , 1 run , short enough to hop and tuck this along the ground to backward square leg 5.6 Broad to Finch , wide , sprays this down the leg-side , Finch tries to help it on its way but misses 5.5 Broad to Finch , no run , fuller length delivery from Broad , Finch flicks well , the man at square leg makes a good diving save to his right 5.4 Broad to Warner , 3 runs , inside-edge but safe ! Broad has his hands on his head. Good length delivery close to the off stump , Warner looks to drive but gets a thick inside edge that almost shaves the leg stump. The fielder in the deep at fine leg does well to put in the dive to save one run 5.3 Broad to Finch , 1 run , on a good length and outside off stump , Finch looks to drive but gets a thickish edge that rolls along the ground to third man 5.2 Broad to Finch , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Finch tucks it to short mid-wicket 5.1 Broad to Finch , no run , oh a big mix-up , but Warner escapes. Fullish delivery on the leg stump , Finch defends it towards mid-on and sets off , Warner responds , but on seeing Finch stop , he tries to return back. He slips and the fielder at mid-on under-arms the ball towards the stumps but misses Australia have scored 33 runs in the last two overs . 4.6 J Anderson to Warner , FOUR , Australia are turning it on nicely. Full and outside off stump , Warner does n't try to overhit the ball this time , just opts to drive this along the ground through mid-off to end the over on a high 4.5 J Anderson to Warner , FOUR , in the air , but safe ! Full and in the slot , Warner looks to off-drive the ball , but it hits him on the outside half of the bat , James Taylor was very square at a shortish mid-off. Oh dear ! The replay suggests that he could have caught the ball. He dived low to his left but could n't grab it , despite going with both hands 4.4 J Anderson to Finch , 3 runs , not much of movement on this short of length delivery , Finch rocks back and punches it through cover-point and the big boundary gives him three 4.4 J Anderson to Finch , wide , sprays this down the leg-side , easy call for the umpire 4.3 J Anderson to Finch , 2 runs , the line is too straight from Anderson , Finch flicks it through backward square leg for a couple of runs 4.2 J Anderson to Finch , no run , short of length delivery from Anderson , blocked 4.1 J Anderson to Finch , FOUR , he 's growing in confidence. Full and swinging away outside off stump , Finch leans forward and plays a lovely off-drive , Anderson tries to kick the ball with his left foot in his followthrough , but it beats him and mid-off had no chance as he was way too square That is a solid over for Australia , 15 came off it and that will settle the dressing room a bit . 3.6 Broad to Warner , no run , oops ! Inside-edge onto thigh pad , but no harm done though. Good length delivery just outside off stump , Warner looks to push it through cover , but the ball moves back in and foxes the batsman at the last moment 3.5 Broad to Finch , 1 run , on a length and on the leg stump , Finch flicks it along the ground to fine leg 3.4 Broad to Finch , FOUR , cracking shot ! For some reason , Broad has gone very short this over and he 's been punished. Short and on the off stump , Finch rocks back and pulls powerfully , it was in the ait again but square leg had no chance as it went well wide of him to his right 3.3 Broad to Warner , 3 runs , short again from Broad , Warner pulls uppishly but in the gap again , long leg gives chase and saves one 3.2 Broad to Finch , 3 runs , in the air but safe ! Shortish and on the stumps , Finch rocks back and pulls , it hits him high on the bat but luckily , it went to the left of the man at square leg 3.1 Broad to Finch , FOUR , that 's a positive blow from Finch and that will get him going. Even though there was some outswing on offer on this fuller length delivery , the fact that it was very close to the stumps allowed Finch to swing through the line , Finch just lofts it easily over mid-on and it escapes to the fence. That is the first boundary of the game as well 2.6 J Anderson to Warner , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Warner shoulders arms 2.5 J Anderson to Warner , 2 runs , that 's in the gap and they take two. Warner wanted three but Finch was n't keen. Friendly fuller length delivery on the leg stump , Warner flicks it along the ground through mid-wicket and picks up a couple of runs 2.4 J Anderson to Warner , no run , a loud call of 'wait on ' from Warner after pushing this fuller length delivery to wide mid-off 2.3 J Anderson to Warner , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Warner defends off the back foot 2.2 J Anderson to Warner , no run , almost the outside edge ! Warner not fully moving his front foot. Fullish and outside off stump , Warner pushes at it away from the body , the ball jags away off the deck and beats the bat. This is some fine bowling from both Anderson and Broad 2.1 J Anderson to Warner , no run , a tight outswinger on a good length , Warner defends as he had no room to work with 1.6 Broad to Finch , no run , this time Finch simply lets this short of length delivery go as it was well outside off stump 1.5 Broad to Finch , no run , peach ! Great shape away from the right-hander on this good length delivery , the ball swung away late as well , Finch looks to drive away from the body and gets beaten comprehensively. That could have easily taken the outside edge 1.4 Broad to Finch , no run , outswinging good length delivery around the off stump , Finch defends from the crease 1.3 Broad to Finch , 2 runs , thickish inside edge ! Good length delivery on the leg stump , looked like the ball bounced extra , Finch was trying to flick , eventually the ball runs along the ground to fine leg 1.2 Broad to Warner , 1 run , too straight this time and Warner easily glances it down to fine leg for a run 1.1 Broad to Warner , no run , Broad starts off with a back of a length delivery , Warner defends off the back foot Stuart Broad , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 J Anderson to Finch , no run , short of length delivery to end the over , punched off the back foot into the off-side 0.5 J Anderson to Finch , 2 runs , dropped ! This is a big miss , Chris Woakes is the culprit. Aaron Finch is very nervous , very , very nervous indeed. Full delivery on the leg stump , Finch flicks uppishly , the ball goes in the air , the man at square leg jumps and tries to grab the ball with both hands above his head , but spills it. He should have held onto it. Maybe , he did n't time the jump properly 0.4 J Anderson to Finch , no run , that is a tentative , ugly poke from Finch. Nice outswinger from Anderson , it was n't all that close to the off stump , could have been easily left alone , Finch plays very late at it and gets beaten 0.3 J Anderson to Warner , 1 run , first runs on the board ! Short of a length ball moving away outside off stump , Warner stays on the back foot and pushes it wide of mid-off to open his account 0.2 J Anderson to Warner , no run , not much of pace on this outswinger from Anderson , Warner happily defends off the back foot 0.1 J Anderson to Warner , no run , just a hint of shape away on this gentle length ball from Anderson , Warner watchfully defends off the back foot Warner and Finch are at the crease. Warner is on strike. J Anderson will open the attack Alright , we are all set for the first ball. Here we go ! Two slips in place for Anderson . David Warner and Aaron Finch walk out to a loud cheer . Morgan leads his men out. There are many contests within this contest , but first-up , it 's a mouthwatering face-off , it 's James Anderson v David Warner . Right , a big day at the MCG , a capacity crowd is out there to watch this big match , featuring the hosts against England , their Ashes rivals. It 's time for the national anthems . Teams : England ( Playing XI ) : Moeen Ali , Ian Bell , Gary Ballance , Joe Root , Eoin Morgan ( c ) , James Taylor , Jos Buttler ( w ) , Chris Woakes , Stuart Broad , Steven Finn , James Anderson Australia ( Playing XI ) : David Warner , Aaron Finch , Shane Watson , Steven Smith , George Bailey ( c ) , Glenn Maxwell , Mitchell Marsh , Brad Haddin ( w ) , Mitchell Johnson , Mitchell Starc , Josh Hazlewood England have won the toss and have opted to field Morgan : " We will bowl first. We are all excited about this match , we are not going to hold things back. The pitch looks good , should n't change a lot. The pitch was under cover after heavy rain last night , so that should help our bowlers. We are playing an extra batter , Ballance replaces Bopara. We thought Bopara 's bowling would come in handy , but it did n't turn that way during the practice matches. Hence , made the change. " Bailey : " We were loooking to bat first , so happy with the toss. It 's been a big build-up , expecting a big crowd and it 's a big game to get going. It looks like a great wicket , it should n't change a lot , we would like to get a big score and put pressure on them. It 's a huge game and we are all keyed up. We had some tough decisions to make regarding our team setup , hopefully it will stay the same during the remainder of the tournament as well. We have gone with Hazlewood , he has done well , both with the new ball as well as during the death overs. We need to be consistent over the entire duration of the game and hopefully that will be good enough. " Pitch Report : " Well , the sun is out here in Melbourne , we had a few showers in the morning , but the covers are off and there might be a bit of sweating under the surface. Overall , I think this is going to be a really good cricket wicket. The average score batting first in the last 10 ODIs is 273. So it 's a pretty decent batting track. It is rock hard , it is a nice even pitch , the cover of grass is really even. I think the new ball from both teams will really fly through , " reckons Mark Waugh . On the other hand , England are pondering about playing an extra specialist batsman. In that case , Gary Ballance , who made 57 in England 's final practice match against Pakistan might edge out Ravi Bopara , who has been struggling for form in recent times . Early team news : Australia are certain to miss two of their star players for this match. While Clarke is fit and is expected to start in Australia 's next match. James Faulkner sustained a side strain during the final of the tri-series and has been ruled out of this match for sure. There 's some news about him though. If he 's not fit enough to bowl , he might play as a specialist batsman later on during the tournament . Captain 's corner Australia 's captain , George Bailey , is in a strange position. He will be leading his team at the MCG , but is n't sure of a place in the playing XI in the next match , against Bangladesh at the Gabba. He does n't seem to be fussed about it though. This is what he said : " I think it 's a pretty basic equation there. So what will be will be. I think it 's great that he ( Clarke ) is on track. Certainly from the initial time of his injury , I think he 's done a remarkable job to get back in time. To even have murmurs of him playing in this game , to be available for the next game , which was always the plan , I think he 's done a great job. " Despite their impressive recent form , England have found Australia a tough nut to crack. They played their Ashes opponents thrice in the tri-series and lost each match in convincing fashion. Skipper , Eoin Morgan , does n't want to dwell into the past though as his side prepares for its first match of the World Cup. " We should not be striving for a formula that is not ours. The fact is that the majority of us have been in series where we have beaten Australia. We have not been worn down by them winning , " he said . Head-to-head It is advantage Australia when it comes to World Cup games between these two teams as they have won 4 out of their six meetings in the mega event. After Gary Gilmour blew England away in 1975 , Mike Brearley 's men bounced back four years later to make it 1-1. Although Mike Gatting 's infamous reverse sweep then gave Allan Border 's team the cup in 1987 , Ian Botham helped England beat Australia in their own backyard in 1992 , in what was a convincing victory at the SCG. Australia secured a sensational come-from-behind victory in 2003 and backed it up with an easy victory four years later at Antigua . England On the other hand , contrastingly , England have not had a good run leading up to the tournament as they managed to win just 11 out of their last 31 ODI games since 2014. However , after the sacking of Alastair Cook , the revamped side under Eoin Morgan has looked more positive and has shown good intensity. The appointment of Jos Buttler as vice-captain just ahead of the World Cup shows that the selectors rate him highly because of his work ethic and a good cricketing mind. Moeen Ali 's contribution with both bat and ball adds another dimension to the side , which has benefited from the impressive return of both James Taylor and Steven Finn. While Taylor has had four 50 + scores since December 2014 , Finn bagged 11 wickets in the recently concluded tri-series , including a fifer . However , the form of Morgan and Bopara with the bat is a bit of a worry for England as they have been blowing hot and cold. Ian Bell has silenced critics with a hundred and a fifty in the tri-series just a few days ago. Joe Root remains as one of the key batsmen in the middle-order , which is later supported by Buttler and Chris Woakes. Meanwhile , spearhead James Anderson has been amongst the wickets , while Stuart Broad has done decently well after his return from injury. Chris Woakes has mostly hit the right areas and has the wickets to show that he belongs to this level. In fact England outcast Kevin Pietersen rates this team highly and expects them to do well in the World Cup. Interestingly , Andrew Flintoff trained with the England team and put them through boxing drills , while also rolling his arms over at the nets . Australia Having lost just one match out of their last 13 outings , which includes three successive series wins , the Men in Yellow have had a great time in the build-up to the tournament. Runs have flown freely from the bats of David Warner , Steve Smith and Glenn Maxwell 's return to form has come at the right time for the hosts as it strengthens their middle-order. While Mitchell Johnson remains a threat to opposition batsmen every time he takes the field , Mitchell Starc has swung the ball both ways of late and picked wickets at will. Josh Hazlewood has not just taken wickets , but has also proved that he can keep a tight lid on the scoring rate by bowling a disciplined line . It is quite unfortunate that they will miss their regular captain Michael Clarke as the team management decided not to rush him back from injury , despite Clarke scoring a promising fifty against UAE in Australia 's second warm-up game. Instead , they have revealed that Clarke will play in Australia 's second game against Bangladesh on February 21. However , the side , under stand-in captain George Bailey , has proved that Clarke 's absence does not affect the team balance much as 10 out of their last 11 ODI wins have come without Clarke taking the field . So how have the teams fared recently and prepared for the big occasion ? Let 's take a close look . 13 : 15 Local Time , 02 : 15 GMT , 07 : 45 IST : Hello there ! New Zealand have already locked horns with Sri Lanka to kick off the 2015 Cricket World Cup in Christchurch. It 's now time for co-hosts Australia to take on England at the picturesque Melbourne Cricket Ground ( MCG ) to inaugurate the Australia leg of the multi-nation event. The Ashes rivals have played competitive cricket almost every time they met each other and let 's hope that we witness another edge-of-the-seat thriller at the " G " tonight. It was damp this morning because of the overnight rain , but the good news is that the weather has cleared up and things are looking promising . Preview by Gokul Gopal Four-time champions Australia , playing their first World Cup game at home in 23 years , will be eager to start their campaign in style when they take on England in their opening game on 14th February , 2015. Meanwhile , the Eoin Morgan-led side will be keen on coming up with an allround performance and prevent their traditional rivals from getting off to a winning start . Venue : Melbourne Cricket Ground Start time : 9 : 00 AM IST Australia The co-hosts of the 2015 World Cup are in superb form , having lost only one of their last 13 ODIs. They overcame India and England with ease in the recently-concluded tri-series and are looking set to extend their good form into the World Cup. With explosive batsmen like David Warner and Aaron Finch at the top of the order , and with both players in good form , Australia possibly have the best opening pair in the tournament. The middle order too is packed with quality players like Shane Watson , Steven Smith , George Bailey , Mitchell Marsh and Glenn Maxwell. In fact , Australia 's batting order goes all the way down to number 10 considering that Brad Haddin , Mitchell Johnson and Mitchell Starc can pack quite a punch as well. The bowling unit too is well balanced despite the absence of James Faulkner . Team News : Michael Clarke and James Faulkner are ruled out of this game while Australia are unlikely to include left-arm spinner Xavier Doherty. Pat Cummins and Hazlewood will be fighting for a spot in the eleven with Johnson and Starc as the other frontline pacers. Another option for Australia is to include both at the expense of Mitchell Marsh . Probable XI : David Warner , Aaron Finch , Shane Watson , Steven Smith , George Bailey ( capt ) , Glenn Maxwell , Mitchell Marsh , Brad Haddin ( wk ) , Mitchell Johnson , Mitchell Starc , Josh Hazlewood/Pat Cummins . England England , under Eoin Morgan , will be playing without any expectations , considering their poor ODI form. Taking the captaincy away from Alastair Cook has done little to change the fortunes of the side , apart from a couple of wins against India in the recent tri-series. England 's ODI form has been dismal in the last couple of years. Since 2013 , England have only managed a couple of series wins - against New Zealand in Feb. 2013 and West Indies in Feb. 2014 ( One-off wins against Scotland and Ireland not considered. ) Although they do have a decent batting line-up with the presence of Ian Bell , Moeen Ali , Eoing Morgan and Ravi Bopara among others , only a little pressure is required for England to crack. A quality seam attack is what they will count on to get the job done . Team News : Chris Woakes is likely to be included in the eleven and might open the bowling with James Anderson , while Stuart Broad and Steven Finn will provide the back-up. England are unlikely to include James Tredwell in the line-up unless the nature of the pitch forces them to . Probable XI : Ian Bell , Moeen Ali , James Taylor , Joe Root , Eoin Morgan ( capt ) , Ravi Bopara , Jos Buttler ( wk ) , Chris Woakes , Stuart Broad , Steve Finn , James Anderson . Watch out for : David Warner : James Anderson has said that the hot-headed Australian opener , who is just another spat away from suspension , does not need " too much encouragement " to get riled up. Warner may well decide to give it back to England , but with the bat , and if he does make it big , it will have a devastating effect on Eoin Morgan 's team . Eoin Morgan : Soon after the tri-series , the England captain began his mind-games in order to unsettle Australia 's premium pacer Mitchell Johnson. Morgan might be slightly wary of the left-arm quick , but it he does manage to get the better of Johnson , it would do wonders for England 's confidence . Numbers : 2 : The number of times England have won against Australia in their last 10 ODI encounters. They have also won only twice in six World Cup matches against Australia and their last World Cup win came in 1992 . 1 : The number of individual centuries in Australia-England World Cup matches. Kevin Pietersen scored one in the 2007 World Cup , but it came in a losing cause. Ricky Ponting 's 86 in the same game is the highest by an Australian against England in the World Cup . Quotes : Our record as a team in the games that I 've played is bloody good I reckon , and I 'll stand behind that and what we 've achieved as a group -George Bailey To play at the MCG in front of a full house against Australia in a World Cup is something every player dreams of and we 're all so excited about it - James Anderson Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
