Graphs So , that 's all we have from this game. South Africa next play the current champions India on February 22 , whereas Zimbabwe will lock horns with UAE on February 19. However , the World Cup action wo n't stop before that. Switch tabs to follow the biggest rivalry in world cricket as the India-Pakistan game is all set for a thrilling finish. Do n't miss out on all the high octane action there. From commentators Akshay Maanay and Sidhant Maheshwari , this is goodbye from here . Chigumbura : " I thought the opening bowlers gave us the right start that we needed. Maybe we went a bit too much towards the end , in the last three overs. It was going to be a gamble to bring maybe your top seamer Chatara , but in an other way he had bowled too many overs and it was bit of a gamble. I knew they had big-hitters at the end , so that 's why I did n't bowl him in the middle period. Unfortunately , we did n't get the wickets in the middle period. So , we ended up paying the price at the end. I think we lost wickets at the wrong time , when Chibhabha was batting , when Masakadza was batting , we had the game in hand , but at the end of the day we lost those wickets and the pressure was back on us. I am happy with the performance today , I thought we were in the game for a longer period of time , than we normally do. So , these are good signs for the games to come on. " AB de Villiers : " Pretty happy with a good winning start. Certainly was n't easy. A lot of credit to Elton and his boys. I thought they came out and played really good cricket. They put us under pressure from the word go. And bowled really well especially in the first 10-15 overs. It was just a great knock from David ( Miller ) and JP ( Duminy ) today. Great partnership that won us the game today. So very chuffed for the two of them. It was pretty tough and it reminded me a bit of Zimbabwe 's wickets ( referring to their home surfaces ) in the first 10-15 overs. Quite slow and difficult to hit through the line , but I thought the boys assessed pretty well. I got a little partnership going with Faf ( du Plessis ) , but unfortunately both of us got out. Luckily David and JP got together and formed a great partnership. It definitely got easier towards the end of our innings. I think it played pretty well throughout their innings. They batted pretty well , but just lost their way halfway through the innings. Credit to my boys. The bowlers stuck together really well as a unit and especially Imran Tahir tonight was outstanding. I always feel the pressure,it is part of the game , it is the probably the reason why we enjoyed so much. Without the pressure we would n't be playing this game. We love it , love the big moment , love the pressure situations. That is actually what we spoke about in the last drinks break. We were under the pump and if do n't do something about it , we are going to lose this game. That 's great , we came out on top today. Sometimes you do n't , but we learned from certain spells tonight. We learned a few lessons and we will take that forward into the next game. Obviously when I got out , I was just forming a nice partnership out there and just got things going with David and I do n't know what happened there. It was quite frustrating. I will try not to do that again ( referring to a question asked on Twitter , regarding which was the most frustrating moment in the game ) . " Miller : " The first one will always be very special , but it was nice to top it up within the next couple of innings , so yes very ecstatic. I was just looking to construct a partnership with someone and JP was the man today. He batted phenomenally well. It was a tough wicket , was a little slow and eased on towards the end. So we just had to work in the middle , which JP ( Duminy ) did really well and myself. It was really nice to get that. We just kept encouraging each other along our way , we just tried to stay in the moment as much as we could. We knew it was an important partnership and tried to take it as deep as possible. That 's what we did. A lot of positives I can take from that , I really enjoyed constructing the innings and I have been really working hard at that part of my game. Especially playing the spinners and rotating the strike. I am really happy with that performance , hopefully , it can continue. " David Miller is the Man of the Match for his 92-ball 138 . Zimbabwe might have lost this game , but they should n't lose hope. The way they are playing , they can well cause an upset in the next few games. They proved it when they had NZ on the mat in the first warm-up , defeated Sri Lanka in the second and put up a spirited performance today. On the other hand , South Africa will know that they managed to win the game , but it was not that convincing. Their top-order completely failed today and the way Steyn took a beating , they need to pull their socks up if they are to win the World Cup . What came next was the Miller-Duminy show. They put on a record 256-run stand , the highest 5th wicket stand in ODI cricket. Both of them were considerate during the first half of their innings , playing balls on their merit , but after they got to their fifties , they cranked up to top gear. Both of them registered their respective hundreds and the onslaught was so fierce that 146 runs came off the last 10 overs , with 96 coming off the last 5. Riding on the Miller-Duminy charge , South Africa posted a mammoth 339/4 on the board . Earlier in the day , South Africa got off to a very poor start , losing both de Kock and Amla when the team total was 21. South African captain , de Villiers and du Plessis then tried steadying the innings. However , after some initial success against the Zimbabwean bowlers , both of them threw there wickets away in quick succession to leave South Africa struggling at 83/4 . Soon after , Taylor perished as well and the rest of the lower-order batsmen could n't do much either. All of them got out while trying to up the ante. The Proteas bowlers were hot and cold. They looked out of sorts when Masakadza was batting , but came back well to halt the run-chase. Credit also goes to AB de Villiers for being spectacular in the field , taking 3 catches , out of which 2 were spectacular and effecting one run-out . After losing Raza early in the run-chase , Chibhabha and Masakadza put on a 100-plus stand to stabilize the innings. Even after Chibhabha got out , Masakadza and Taylor decided to take on the South African bowlers , upsetting their line and lengths from time to time. Zimbabwe at one stage were 191/2 in the 33rd over , but after Masakadza got out , Zimbabwe 's fight started to fizzle out . 48.2 M Morkel to Chatara , out Caught&Bowled ! ! Tame dismissal ! South Africa win by 62 runs. Morne performs the final rites of the innings. It was full on middle and leg , Chatara makes a bit of room and chips it back to the bowler , Morne collects it calmly in his followthrough. Chatara c and b M Morkel 6 ( 11 ) [ 4s-1 ] M Morkel to Chatara , THATS OUT ! ! Caught&Bowled ! ! 48.1 M Morkel to Chatara , no run , full and wide of off , Chatara charges down and fails to make contact. It was too far away from him 47.6 Philander to Chatara , 1 run , too full and on off , Chatara eases it down to long-on 47.5 Philander to Chatara , no run , slower short ball , Chatara tries to steer it down to third man , does not make contact 47.4 Philander to Chatara , FOUR , half volley outside off , Chatara does not miss out , he comes on the front foot and creams the drive through the packed off-side field , no one guarding the sweeper fence 47.3 Philander to Chatara , no run , direct hit and it would all be over ! Full toss on off , Chatara pushes it to the left of Philander and takes off for a single , Kamungozi is not interested and sends his partner back. Philander shies and fails to hit the stumps , Chatara had given up 47.2 Philander to Chatara , no run , fuller and outside off , Chatara drives and gets an under-edge to the keeper Tafadzwa Kamungozi , right handed bat , comes to the crease 47.1 Philander to Solomon Mire , out Caught by de Villiers ! ! Gosh ! How can you keep ABD out of action ? He seems to be everywhere. That is another stunner from the South African skipper. It was a short delivery , Mire fetches it from outside off and pulls it to deep mid-wicket , ABD sprints across the outfield , dives full length to his right and takes it centimeters from the ground. He was parallel to the ground when he took it. Solomon Mire c de Villiers b Philander 27 ( 25 ) [ 4s-2 6s-2 ] Philander to Solomon Mire , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Vernon Philander [ 7.0-0-25-1 ] is back into the attack 46.6 M Morkel to Solomon Mire , 1 run , pitched up on off , Mire drills it down the ground , ABD limits it to just a single 46.5 M Morkel to Solomon Mire , no run , Morne keeps it just inside the tram-line outside off , Mire is nowhere close to connecting with that 46.5 M Morkel to Solomon Mire , wide , sprays it well wide of off , Mire tries to reach it , ca n't and wided by the umpire 46.4 M Morkel to Solomon Mire , no run , drags the length back and slows it up , Mire is early into the pull , the ball beats the outside edge 46.3 M Morkel to Solomon Mire , no run , takes the pace off the ball , Mire goes for the slog towards cow corner , fails to make contact 46.2 M Morkel to Solomon Mire , no run , fullish and outside off , Mire has a go at that , but it is too far away from him The umpires call for a replacement and the fourth umpire comes out with a case of used balls . 46.1 M Morkel to Solomon Mire , SIX , that is out of the stadium ! It will be a six in any ground. It is a 103 meter six from Mire. Length delivery right in the slot , Mire swings hard and sends it sailing over deep mid-wicket. It hit one of the trees outside the venue Morne Morkel [ 7.0-1-41-1 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Tahir to Chatara , no run , flipper to end the over and spell , Chatara hangs back and bunts it to the on-side. Tahir finishes with figures of : 10-0-36-3 45.5 Tahir to Solomon Mire , 1 run , googly on off and middle , Mire heaves it towards cow corner , the ball goes on the bounce to Amla 45.4 Tahir to Solomon Mire , no run , quicker and on the stumps , Mire drives it back to the bowler 45.3 Tahir to Chatara , 1 run , Chatara is lucky , mistimes the loft and the ball drops it well in front of the long-off fielder 45.2 Tahir to Chatara , no run , guides it with the sping to backward point 45.1 Tahir to Chatara , no run , Tahir goes for an lbw appeal , but the umpire says no. Chatara comes down the track and misses the nudge through the on-side , is rapped on the pads. However , he was long way out of the crease and the ball had some distance to travel 44.6 Steyn to Solomon Mire , FOUR , that is not a sight that you see in cricket - Steyn ducking for cover. Full delivery on off , Mire slams it in the air straight back at the bowler , Steyn did well to get out of the way 44.5 Steyn to Solomon Mire , FOUR , drilled ! Overpitched delivery just outside off , Mire does not get in line but goes through with the drive , gets it past ABD at mid-off , who chased in vain 44.4 Steyn to Solomon Mire , no run , slower short ball , Mire thought about going after it , but pulls out at the last instant 44.3 Steyn to Solomon Mire , no run , yorker on middle and leg , Mire backs away and jams it to cover 44.2 Steyn to Solomon Mire , SIX , Steyn figures still taking a beating , length delivery on middle and leg , Mire heaves it through the line , gets it off the middle and the ball sails over backward square for a maximum 44.1 Steyn to Solomon Mire , 2 runs , how did he keep that ? Pin-point yorker aimed at the base of middle stump , Mire brings his bat down and squeezes it off the outside edge to third man. Steyn was a bit sloppy in collecting the throw and the batsmen sneak in an extra run 43.6 Tahir to Solomon Mire , 1 run , googly that just stops on the batsman , Mire checks his punch , lobs it to the right of Tahir and down to long-on Tendai Chatara , right handed bat , comes to the crease 43.5 Tahir to Panyangara , out Caught by de Villiers ! ! Another fabulous catch from ABD ! He makes them look so easy. The googly that bounced a bit extra , Panyangara goes on his knee and top-edges the sweep , the ball flies towards short fine , ABD runs across from slip , dives full length and gobbles it up. That is his second catch of the innings and he also has a run-out to his name. Panyangara c de Villiers b Tahir 4 ( 4 ) [ 4s-1 ] Tahir to Panyangara , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 43.4 Tahir to Panyangara , no run , typical response from Tahir , the wrong 'un , Panyangara presses forward and misses the forward defensive , the ball was drifting down leg 43.3 Tahir to Panyangara , FOUR , Panyangara is not going to hang around by the looks of it , flighted delivery on off , he kneels down and plays the slog sweep wide of Amla at deep mid-wicket , it almost carried the distance 43.2 Tahir to Panyangara , no run , quicker and on off , Panyangara backs away and manages to keep it out 43.1 Tahir to Solomon Mire , 1 run , nice loopy delivery , Mire pushes at it and gets a thickish edge towards cover-point Tinashe Panyangara , right handed bat , comes to the crease 42.6 Steyn to C Ervine , out Caught by de Villiers ! ! Zimbabwe are falling apart ! It was a 141kph short delivery , Ervine is hurried onto the pull , he ends up splicing it to mid-on , where ABD takes the simplest of catches. After a dreadful start to his spell , Steyn has come back well in the last couple of overs. C Ervine c de Villiers b Steyn 13 ( 21 ) [ 6s-1 ] Steyn to C Ervine , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 42.5 Steyn to C Ervine , no run , slower ball just outside off , Ervine goes for the slog across the line and misses , is outdone by the lack of pace 42.4 Steyn to Solomon Mire , 1 run , short of length on off , Mire was cramped for room , but still gets the pull away to deep mid-wicket 42.3 Steyn to Solomon Mire , no run , fullish and outside off , Mire drives it towards extra cover , Amla makes a slight fumble , but the duo do n't risk the single 42.2 Steyn to Solomon Mire , no run , cross seam delivery , it was a yorker , Mire manages to bring his bat down and dig it back down the wicket 42.1 Steyn to C Ervine , 1 run , Ervine makes room and Steyn follows him , Ervine jams it onto the pads and the ball trickles towards square leg 41.6 Tahir to Solomon Mire , no run , slower and close to off , Mire pushes it to cover off the front foot 41.5 Tahir to Solomon Mire , no run , once again the wrong 'un , Mire goes for the drive and gets it off the inside part to short mid-wicket 41.4 Tahir to Solomon Mire , no run , another googly , Mire goes for the mighty slog , gets an inside edge that hits QdK 's pad and rolls to short third man 41.3 Tahir to Solomon Mire , no run , flighted on off , Mire drives it to cover , straight to the fielder 41.2 Tahir to Solomon Mire , no run , wrong 'un that breaks back in , Mire does not pick it , he misses the forward defensive and the ball goes off the pad to short third man , it was going down leg 41.1 Tahir to C Ervine , 1 run , quicker and around off , keeps a bit low , Ervine bunts it down to long-on Imran Tahir [ 7.0-0-27-2 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Steyn to C Ervine , leg byes , 1 run , shortish on middle , Ervine tries to pull with one leg in the air , he misses and the ball hits him high on the pad and drops to the off-side Solomon Mire , right handed bat , comes to the crease 40.5 Steyn to Chigumbura , out Chigumbura Run Out ! ! You can not take on ABD and get away with it. Chigumbura does that mistake and pays the price for it. It was a full toss from Steyn , Chigumbura drives it to mid-off and sets off for a risky single , ABD gathers the ball and hits the bulls-eye at the non-striker 's end. He was out by a mile and it was the easiest decision for the TV umpire. Chigumbura run out ( de Villiers ) 8 ( 7 ) [ 6s-1 ] Steyn to Chigumbura , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! The third umpire called in for a run-out chance. Chigumbura is out by a long way. He is OUT ! 40.4 Steyn to Chigumbura , no run , Chigumbura backs away to the leg-side , Steyn sees that and fires it just outside off , Chigumbura lets it go. It was well within the guideline 40.3 Steyn to C Ervine , 1 run , shortens the length on off , Ervine drops it knocks it in front of cover , takes a well judged single 40.2 Steyn to Chigumbura , leg byes , 1 run , on a good length and angling in on the pads , Chigumbura fails to work it through the on-side and is rapped on the pads , there was an appeal from Steyn , but the ball was going down leg 40.1 Steyn to Chigumbura , no run , fullish just outside off , Chigumbura drives it to cover Dale Steyn [ 6.0-0-45-0 ] is back into the attack Can Zimbabwe do the unthinkable and chase this down ? The last 10 overs are coming your way South Africa after 40 overs : 193/4 ; Zimbabwe after 40 overs : 234/4 The batting powerplay yielded 27 runs and Zimbabwe lost the wickets of Taylor and Williams . 39.6 Duminy to C Ervine , SIX , great shot to end the batting powerplay , it was floated on the stumps , Ervine heaves it over the deep mid-wicket fence for a six , super shot from Ervine 39.5 Duminy to C Ervine , no run , pushed through on the stumps , Ervine defends 39.4 Duminy to C Ervine , no run , slightly flatter around off , punched back to the bowler 39.3 Duminy to C Ervine , no run , floated on off , Ervine pushes it into the off-side 39.2 Duminy to C Ervine , no run , did he get an edge there ? If not , it was pretty close. tossed up on the stumps , Ervine was looking to clip it through the on-side and wears it on his pad , that was a close shout , but South Africa do n't have a review 39.1 Duminy to C Ervine , no run , skips down the track and flicks this flighted delivery on the pads to backward square leg 38.6 M Morkel to Chigumbura , SIX , what a shot ! Morkel 's been dispatched here. It was slightly shortish outside off , Chigumbura just flat-bats it over the deep extra cover fence for a flat six , great shot from the Zimbabwean captain 38.5 M Morkel to C Ervine , 1 run , straying on the pads once again , Ervine nudges it to fine leg and gets to the other end 38.4 M Morkel to C Ervine , no run , tries to work this one into the on-side off his pads , fails to make a connection and wears it on his pad , the ball was going down leg though 38.3 M Morkel to C Ervine , no run , just short of a good length and on top of off , Ervine opens the face of the bat and defends it in front of backward point 38.2 M Morkel to C Ervine , no run , slower delivery banged in short and outside off , Ervine goes for the pull , but completely misses it , the keeper gloves it 38.1 M Morkel to Chigumbura , 1 run , just short of a good length and around off , Chigumbura pushes at it , gets an inside edge onto the pad that rolls away into the off-side behind square , the batsmen pinch a quick single 37.6 Duminy to Chigumbura , 1 run , floated up just outside off , Chigumbura steps out of the crease and drives it to long-on , gets off the mark with a single 37.5 Duminy to C Ervine , 1 run , on the pads , Ervine nurdles it behind square on the on-side Elton Chigumbura , right handed bat , comes to the crease 37.4 Duminy to Sean Williams , out Caught by de Kock ! ! Zimbabwe are losing the plot here. Williams goes now and half the Zimbabwean bastmen are back in the hut. It was flatter and outside off , Williams goes for a pull and looks to go big , ends up getting a top-edge that goes very high in the air. de Kock runs forward and takes a simple catch. Sean Williams c de Kock b Duminy 8 ( 13 ) [ 4s-1 ] Duminy to Sean Williams , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 37.3 Duminy to Sean Williams , no run , gives the charge but did n't have the room to free his arms , ends up pushing it back towards the bowler 37.2 Duminy to C Ervine , 1 run , flighted delivery on the stumps , Ervine wrists it to mid-on for a single 37.1 Duminy to C Ervine , no run , floated up on off , Ervine leans forward and defends it back towards the bowler Duminy comes from round the wicket Jean-Paul Duminy [ 6.0-0-36-0 ] is back into the attack 36.6 M Morkel to Sean Williams , no run , another slower shortish delivery to end the over , Williams was too early into the pull , the ball goes under his back and the keeper collects 36.5 M Morkel to Sean Williams , 2 runs , banged in short and outside off , Williams shifts his weight on the back foot and pulls it to deep mid-wicket 36.4 M Morkel to Sean Williams , no run , back of a length slower delivery that stops on the batsman , Williams was pushing at it , he checks his shot and the ball just about evades the mid-off fielder , Williams must have had his heart in his mouth at that time 36.3 M Morkel to C Ervine , 1 run , on a good length and on the stumps , Ervine bunts it uppishly over the giraffe 's head , the batsmen take a single 36.2 M Morkel to C Ervine , no run , angling away outside off , Ervine leans forward and taps it towards point Craig Ervine , left handed bat , comes to the crease 36.1 M Morkel to Brendan Taylor , out Caught by Philander ! ! Taylor perishes first ball after the drinks break. Philander takes an easy catch. He got deceived by the lack of pace on it. It was on a good length and angling in around off , Taylor was n't upto the pitch of the ball while he was looking to loft it , ends up chipping it towards mid-wicket , where Philander snaffles it. His bat might have turned in his hands as well. Brendan Taylor c Philander b M Morkel 40 ( 40 ) [ 4s-4 6s-1 ] M Morkel to Brendan Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Morne Morkel [ 5.0-1-30-0 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now. Zimbabwe have done really well to reach this stage. They are still in the game and need 126 runs in 14 overs. Chibhabha departed after a well made fifty , Masakadza was brutal and his six off Steyn 's bowling was just too good. Taylor also has come and outscored the number of balls he has faced. These last 14 overs will be very interesting. Stay tuned . 35.6 Steyn to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , slightly back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Taylor tucks it away past mid-wicket for another run , he will keep the strike 35.5 Steyn to Sean Williams , 1 run , fuller and straighter in line , Williams clips it to deep mid-wicket and gets to the other end 35.4 Steyn to Sean Williams , no run , slightly wider outside off , Williams shoulders arms and looks at the umpire thinking that it will be called a wide. However , the umpire does n't agree with him and it is deemed as a genuine ball 35.3 Steyn to Sean Williams , FOUR , beautiful shot from Williams , it was on a good length and outside off , Williams leans into the drive and caresses it past a diving extra cover for his first boundary 35.2 Steyn to Sean Williams , no run , just short of a good length and on off and middle , Williams just about manages to get his bat down in time , gets an inside edge onto the pad and that 's what saved him from being plumb out 35.1 Steyn to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , fuller in length and just outside off , Taylor comes forward and drives it to cover Dale Steyn [ 5.0-0-38-0 ] is back into the attack Time for the batting powerplay. Can Zimbabwe push further ? Dale Steyn also comes back . 34.6 Behardien to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , paddles this flighted delivery fine to keep the strike 34.5 Behardien to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , fullish just outside off , Taylor leans forward and lofts it to the long-off fence , the ball went on one bounce , the fielder at mid-off was inside the circle 34.4 Behardien to Brendan Taylor , SIX , half-tracker from Behardien and Taylor just muscles the pull over the deep mid-wicket fence , pure power from him there 34.3 Behardien to Sean Williams , leg byes , 1 run , just short of a good length and angled on middle and leg , Williams fails to work it into the on-side and wears it high on his back pad , the umpire said 'Not Out ' after a long appeal from the bowler. The South Africans reviewed it as well , but the ball pitched outside leg. The umpire also check for the run-out decision at the striker 's end , but Taylor 's dive saved him there . South Africa have decided to review an lbw decision. Sean Williams is the man in question. Did he get an edge on that ? Snicko does n't show anything. Hawk-Eye shows it pitched outside leg and the onfield decision stays 34.2 Behardien to Sean Williams , no run , on a good length and angled across off , Williams opens the face and pushes it towards point 34.1 Behardien to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , just short of a good length and around off , Taylor drops it in front of cover and sets off for asingle , the cover fielder swoops in , picks it up and under-arms the throw at the striker 's end , but the batsman was well in Farhaan Behardien [ 4.0-0-28-0 ] is back into the attack 33.6 Duminy to Sean Williams , no run , bunts this one down to mid-off for a single 33.5 Duminy to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , flighted delivery on the pads , Taylor works it through mid-wicket for a single 33.4 Duminy to Brendan Taylor , no run , floated up on off and turns back sharply , Taylor just about manages to defend it back on the pitch 33.3 Duminy to Brendan Taylor , no run , flatter on middle and leg , Taylor works it to the right of the bowler 33.2 Duminy to Sean Williams , 1 run , gives this one more air outside off , Williams reached out for it and knocks it to sweeper cover 33.1 Duminy to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , floated up around off , Taylor moves slightly across and wrists it down to long-on Sean Williams , left handed bat , comes to the crease 32.6 Tahir to H Masakadza , out Caught by Amla ! ! Tahir is ecstatic and thumps his chest after taking the wicket of Masakadza. It was flighted around off , Masakadza was looking to work it through the on-side , but closes the bat face a little too early. He gets a leading edge and Amla at cover on the edge of the ring takes an easy catch. Very soft dismissal for the dangerous Masakadza , but it was a good knock nevertheless. H Masakadza c Amla b Tahir 80 ( 74 ) [ 4s-8 6s-2 ] Tahir to H Masakadza , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 32.5 Tahir to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , bunts this one down to mid-on and gets to the other end 32.4 Tahir to Brendan Taylor , no run , dropped ! It was tossed up outside off , Taylor comes forward and drills it hard , uppishly back at the the bowler , who ca n't hold onto it and Taylor survives 32.3 Tahir to Brendan Taylor , no run , almost squares him up now , it was tossed up on off and middle and turns away as Taylor was pushing at it , the ball goes off the outside half of the bat and rolls away into the off-side 32.2 Tahir to Brendan Taylor , no run , googly from Tahir this time , Taylor reads it well and defends with his bat in front of his pad 32.1 Tahir to H Masakadza , 1 run , flatter on the stumps , punches down to long-on 31.6 Duminy to H Masakadza , 1 run , floated up on off , Masakadza looks for the lofted drive and gets a thick outside edge that evades the short third man fielder , Mazakadza gets a single 31.5 Duminy to H Masakadza , FOUR , it was in the air and it crosses the rope on the bounce , it was slightly shortish and on the stumps , Masakadza pulls it to the deep square leg fence , Miller from deep mid-wicket runs to his right , but the ball beats his dive to the fence 31.4 Duminy to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , eases this one down to long-on 31.3 Duminy to Brendan Taylor , no run , quicker one on off , Taylor leans forward and defends 31.2 Duminy to H Masakadza , 1 run , pushed through on middle and leg , Masakadza goes deep in the crease and turns it to deep square leg 31.1 Duminy to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , flatter on the stumps , Taylor goes slightly across and punches it down to long-on 30.6 Tahir to H Masakadza , no run , Maskadza gets beaten with the wrong 'un that goes past his inside edge as he looks to push at it , de Kock was quick to whip the bails off and the umpire checked for a possible stumping as well , but Masakadza never dragged his foot out of the crease 30.5 Tahir to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , slightly flatter and around off , Taylor punches it towards mid-off , the batsmen go through with the single , but de Villiers was quick to run across from extra cover , picks the ball and throws the ball at the non-striker 's end , Taylor just about made it in time 30.4 Tahir to Brendan Taylor , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Taylor pushes it cover 30.3 Tahir to H Masakadza , 1 run , floated up on off , Masakadza goes down on one knee and paddles it fine into the on-side for a single 30.2 Tahir to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , full toss from Tahir , Taylor goes down on one knee and slog sweeps it to deep mid-wicket 30.1 Tahir to Brendan Taylor , no run , almost a yorker just outside off , Taylor squeezes it out back on his boot , the ball rolls away into the off-side Imran Tahir [ 5.0-0-22-1 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Duminy to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , slower and on leg-stump , Taylor nudges it in front of square for a single 29.5 Duminy to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , top shot ! Duminy bowling on leg-stump makes it easy for Taylor to connect. He kneels down and sweeps it over short fine , even the big Morne could not reach that 29.4 Duminy to Brendan Taylor , no run , Taylor fails to make contact with the glance , the ball rolls off the pads to short fine 29.3 Duminy to H Masakadza , 1 run , bit of extra bounce , Masakadza rides it and knocks it to deep square leg 29.3 Duminy to H Masakadza , wide , darted down leg , Masakadza tries to pull , but ca n't make the required connection 29.2 Duminy to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , flighted on leg-stump , Taylor leans forward and works it behind square leg 29.1 Duminy to H Masakadza , 1 run , quicker and on off , Masakadza whips it to long-on 28.6 Philander to H Masakadza , 1 run , dug in mid-way down the wicket , Masakadza pulls it to deep mid-wicket and retains strike 28.5 Philander to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , Philander has not given any pace on the ball in this over , once again the slower short ball , Taylor helps it down to third man 28.4 Philander to H Masakadza , 1 run , cutter around off , Masakadza glides it to third man with an open bat face 28.3 Philander to H Masakadza , no run , fuller and on off , Masakadza drives it back to the bowler 28.2 Philander to H Masakadza , no run , another slower ball bumper , Masakadza goes down on one knee and tries to scoop it , but is not able to connect. The umpire calls one short delivery for the over 28.1 Philander to H Masakadza , no run , slower ball bouncer , Masakadza looks to help it on the way to third man , is done in by the lack of pace 27.6 Duminy to Brendan Taylor , no run , kneels down and does n't time the sweep , picks out Morne at short fine leg 27.5 Duminy to Brendan Taylor , no run , slightly quicker and on off , Taylor tucks it off the front foot to short mid-wicket 27.4 Duminy to H Masakadza , 1 run , tossed up on off , Masakadza eases it to long-on 27.3 Duminy to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , easily done , nurdled with the turn square of the wicket on the leg-side 27.2 Duminy to H Masakadza , 1 run , flighted on middle , Masakadza works it away to deep square leg 27.2 Duminy to H Masakadza , wide , Duminy expected the batsman to charge down and fired it down leg , Masakadza stood his ground and let it go 27.1 Duminy to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , starts from round the wicket , drifts onto the pads , nudged away square of the wicket on the leg-side Jean-Paul Duminy [ 2.0-0-11-0 ] is back into the attack 26.6 Philander to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , goes back to the good length ball around off , Taylor steers it to third man with an angled bat 26.5 Philander to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , amazing shot ! It was tad fuller than the previous delivery , Taylor gets a good stride forward and lofts it through the line , the mid-on fielder was inside the ring and the ball cleared him comfortably 26.4 Philander to Brendan Taylor , no run , good length ball on off , Taylor blocks it down the wicket 26.3 Philander to Brendan Taylor , no run , on a length close to off , Taylor presses forward and defends off the outer half to backward point 26.2 Philander to H Masakadza , 1 run , on a length just outside off , Masakadza knocks it to the left of cover 26.1 Philander to H Masakadza , 2 runs , Philander starts with a short delivery , Masakadza arches back and ramps it over the keeper , Steyn runs along the third man fence , dives full length and stops the ball. The umpires check with the TV umpire , who deems it a good save Vernon Philander [ 5.0-0-14-1 ] is back into the attack 25.6 Tahir to Brendan Taylor , no run , googly to finish the over , Taylor crouches low and turns it softly to mid-wicket 25.5 Tahir to Brendan Taylor , no run , slower and on leg-stump , Taylor closes the bat face early and gets a soft inside edge back to Tahir 25.4 Tahir to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , beautiful shot ! It was the wrong 'un from Tahir , the length was a bit too full , Taylor stays inside the line and lofts it inside out over extra cover , no one protecting the sweeper fence 25.3 Tahir to H Masakadza , 1 run , bowled with a flatter trajectory , Masakadza punches it to long-off 25.2 Tahir to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , another inside edge , Taylor plays for the turn and the ball rolls down to long leg 25.1 Tahir to H Masakadza , 1 run , pushed through on middle , Masakadza squirts it off the inside edge to backward square leg 24.6 Steyn to Brendan Taylor , no run , good length ball outside off , Taylor lifts his bat and lets it go 24.5 Steyn to H Masakadza , 1 run , on a length just outside off , Masakadza opens the bat face at the last instant , runs it down to third man 24.4 Steyn to H Masakadza , FOUR , Steyn has a wry smile on his face , another short ball and another boundary. He was not in control , but Masakadza will take that , he was hurried onto the pull , gets it high on the bat and the ball goes behind square leg for a boundary 24.3 Steyn to H Masakadza , FOUR , put away with utter disdain. This is brilliant batting from Masakadza. Banged in halfway down the wicket , Masakadza comes forward , transfers his weight back and pulls it in front of square. That came right off the meat 24.2 Steyn to H Masakadza , no run , back of a length around off , Masakadza gets right behind the line and blocks it to cover 24.1 Steyn to H Masakadza , no run , short of length outside off , Masakadza is happy to let that go to QdK Brendan Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 23.6 Tahir to Chibhabha , out Caught by Duminy ! ! Tahir strikes ! The partnership has been broken and it needed a brilliant take by JPD to break it. Tahir is elated as he lets out a roar. This was flighted around off , Chibhabha moves away towards the leg-side , mistimes the loft to long-off , Duminy judges it to perfection and takes it inches off the rope. Chibhabha c Duminy b Tahir 64 ( 82 ) [ 4s-10 ] Tahir to Chibhabha , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 23.5 Tahir to Chibhabha , no run , comes down the track and clips it to backward square , he wanted a single but Masakadza sends him back 23.4 Tahir to Chibhabha , no run , backs away to the leg-side and looks to go inside out , Tahir darts it full on off , squeezed back to the bowler 23.3 Tahir to H Masakadza , 1 run , flipper on the stumps , Masakadza is hurried onto that , the ball squirts off the inside edge to deep backward square leg 23.2 Tahir to Chibhabha , 1 run , pushed through on leg-stump , Chibhabha milks it to square leg and gets to the other end 23.1 Tahir to Chibhabha , FOUR , lovely shot ! Great use of the feet by Chibhabha , shimmies down the wicket , meets the pitch of the ball and plays the pick up shot over mid-wicket , the timing was sweet as the ball races away to the fence. That also brings up 100-run stand between these two 23.1 Tahir to Chibhabha , wide , googly down leg , Chibhabha fails to connect with the pull 22.6 Steyn to Chibhabha , 1 run , banged in halfway down the wicket , Chibhabha pulls it on the bounce to deep mid-wicket 22.5 Steyn to Chibhabha , FOUR , superb shot ! It was slightly short and outside off , Chibhabha flashes it with laden feet , he did n't bother to keep it down the ground , flies between cover and mid-off. Steyn gives the expression that he could not do much 22.4 Steyn to Chibhabha , no run , bumper outside off , Chibhabha is not interested in playing at that 22.3 Steyn to H Masakadza , 1 run , shortens the length on off , Masakadza hangs back and tucks it to deep square leg 22.2 Steyn to H Masakadza , SIX , what a way to get to fifty ! Steyn also appreciates the shot. Takes a couple of steps down the wicket and hits it through the line , the ball went flat and over long-off for a maximum 22.1 Steyn to H Masakadza , no run , fuller and on off , Masakadza drives it crisply straight back at Steyn , who makes a half stop Dale Steyn [ 3.0-0-17-0 ] is back into the attack 21.6 Tahir to Chibhabha , no run , dropped ! It was a tough one though for Tahir. He deceived the batsman in flight , Chibhabha chips down the wicket and drives it uppishly back to the bowler , Tahir dives forward and fails to get his fingers underneath it 21.5 Tahir to H Masakadza , 1 run , googly that turns into Masakadza , he watches it closely and turns it to the on-side 21.4 Tahir to Chibhabha , 1 run , quicker , fuller and on the stumps , Chibhabha drives it to long-on 21.3 Tahir to Chibhabha , no run , slows it up and around off , Chibhabha hangs back and blocks it down the wicket 21.2 Tahir to H Masakadza , 1 run , tad short and outside off , Masakadza cuts it to deep backward point 21.1 Tahir to Chibhabha , 1 run , flighted on off , Chibhabha comes down the track and works it away to deep mid-wicket 20.6 Behardien to Chibhabha , 1 run , pitched up on off , Chibhabha drills it back to the bowler , Behardien gets a hand but fails to stop it completely 20.5 Behardien to Chibhabha , no run , fullish and on off , Chibhabha drives it straight to cover 20.4 Behardien to H Masakadza , 1 run , eases it down to long-on for a single 20.3 Behardien to H Masakadza , FOUR , superb batting from Masakadza , he premeditates the shot and picks up a boundary. On a length close to off , Masakadza shuffles across and scoops it over short fine for a boundary 20.2 Behardien to H Masakadza , no run , touch shortish and on the stumps , Masakadza backs away and cuts it to point , picks out the fielder 20.1 Behardien to H Masakadza , SIX , Masakadza just about clears the rope. He spotted the leg-cutter early , kneels down and top-edges the slog sweep. The ball went high in the air and had enough to clear the fence 19.6 Tahir to Chibhabha , no run , slower and on the stumps , Chibhabha turns it gently to the on-side 19.5 Tahir to Chibhabha , no run , flipper on leg-stump , Chibhabha is hurried into the nudge , is struck on the pads 19.4 Tahir to Chibhabha , no run , huge shout for lbw , but the umpire is not convinced. The googly from Tahir , Chibhabha did n't pick it as he missed the forward defensive , is rapped on the pads. The impact was on middle , but the only thing that could have saved him was the ball was turning down leg 19.3 Tahir to H Masakadza , 1 run , too full and on off , Masakadza drives it to long-off , he almost squeezed it out 19.2 Tahir to H Masakadza , no run , fires it full and on middle , Masakadza digs it out to mid-wicket 19.1 Tahir to H Masakadza , no run , flighted on off , Masakadza whips it towards short mid-wicket , fine stop by Faf 18.6 Behardien to H Masakadza , 1 run , pulls the length back , provides width as well , Masakadza flashes a cut to sweeper cover 18.5 Behardien to Chibhabha , 1 run , pitched up just outside off , Chibhabha leans into the drive to long-off 18.4 Behardien to Chibhabha , no run , back of a length on off , Chibhabha stands up and punches it to mid-wicket 18.3 Behardien to H Masakadza , 1 run , another slower one from Behardien , Masakadza kneels down and sweeps it to deep backward square leg 18.2 Behardien to Chibhabha , 1 run , Chibhabha gets to his 10th ODI fifty. He gets a round of applause from the Zimbabwean supporters. The leg-cutter on off , Chibhabha works it gently to the right of mid-wicket 18.1 Behardien to Chibhabha , no run , full and angling in , Chibhabha works it towards short mid-wicket , where ABD makes a tumbling stop Farhaan Behardien [ 2.0-0-12-0 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now ! Zimbabwe have not yet given up. They started strongly and are going at a nice pace. But for how long can they keep going ? South Africa need a couple of quick wickets to take the game away . 17.6 Tahir to H Masakadza , no run , wrong 'un , Masakadza does not pick it and misses the clip to the on-side , is struck on the pad , but once again it was sneaking down leg 17.5 Tahir to H Masakadza , no run , slider on leg-stump , Masakadza fails to nudge it away , is rapped on the pads 17.4 Tahir to Chibhabha , 1 run , floated up outside off , Chibhabha drives it hard and down to long-off 17.3 Tahir to Chibhabha , no run , driven crisply and finds the fielder at cover , superb stop by ABD diving to his right 17.2 Tahir to H Masakadza , 1 run , another full toss and Tahir gets away with it , drilled down to long-on 17.1 Tahir to Chibhabha , 1 run , full toss on leg-stump , Chibhabha works it to deep square leg Imran Tahir , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 16.6 M Morkel to H Masakadza , no run , on a length close to off , Masakadza hangs his bat away from the body , gets an inside edge behind square 16.5 M Morkel to H Masakadza , no run , Morne follows the batsman who was backing away , fires in the yorker , Masakadza fails to dig it out and a good take by QdK 16.4 M Morkel to H Masakadza , no run , good length ball around off , Masakadza presses forward and taps it to point 16.3 M Morkel to Chibhabha , 1 run , on a length close to off , Chibhabha comes forward to defend , the ball takes the inside part and goes to square leg 16.2 M Morkel to H Masakadza , 1 run , back of a length on off , Masakadza drops it in front of cover and calls for a sharp single , JPD runs forward , picks up the ball and under-arms the throw at the striker 's end , Chibhabha had to dive to make his ground 16.1 M Morkel to Chibhabha , 1 run , shortens the length around off , Chibhabha stands up and guides it to third man 15.6 Duminy to Chibhabha , 1 run , he does well to evade the fielder on this occasion , nudged away to deep mid-wicket 15.5 Duminy to Chibhabha , no run , works it with the turn to short mid-wicket , no chance of a single there 15.4 Duminy to Chibhabha , no run , punched off the back foot to the bowler 15.3 Duminy to H Masakadza , 1 run , pushes it to mid-off and sets off for a single 15.2 Duminy to H Masakadza , FOUR , now some innovation , he tried to the reverse sweep in the Duminy 's previous over , but failed to middle it , this time he middles and gets it fine to beat the short third man fielder 15.1 Duminy to H Masakadza , FOUR , tossed up around off , Masakadza dances down the wicket and lofts it handsomely over the bowler 's head. That was a clean hit from Masakadza. The key was getting to the pitch of the ball 14.6 M Morkel to Chibhabha , no run , slightly back of a length and around off , Chibhabha gets behind the line and defends , the ball goes off the inside half of the bat onto the boot and then rolls away back to the bowler 14.5 M Morkel to H Masakadza , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Masakadza hangs back and steers it down to third man after opening the face of the bat 14.4 M Morkel to H Masakadza , no run , on a length and around off , Masakadza defends it into the off-side 14.3 M Morkel to H Masakadza , FOUR , shortish and wide outside off yet again , this time Masakadza slaps it past a diving backward point , it was timed superbly and raced away to the fence like a tracer bullet 14.2 M Morkel to H Masakadza , FOUR , Morkel drags his length further back and Masakadza muscles the pull to the deep mid-wicket fence , great shot from Masakadza 14.1 M Morkel to H Masakadza , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Masakadza looks to run it down to third man , but gets beaten Morne Morkel [ 3.0-1-18-0 ] is back into the attack 13.6 Duminy to Chibhabha , no run , pushed through on middle stump line , Chibhabha goes back in the crease and blocks 13.5 Duminy to Chibhabha , no run , floated up outside off , Chibhabha drives it to cover 13.4 Duminy to Chibhabha , no run , quicker one on the stumps , Chibhabha moves across and fails to work it into the leg-side , wears it on his pad , there was no appeal as the ball pitched outside leg 13.3 Duminy to H Masakadza , 1 run , flatter from Duminy , Masakadza goes back and short-arm pulls it to deep mid-wicket 13.2 Duminy to H Masakadza , no run , bowls this one outside leg , Masakadza employs the reverse sweep and finds backward point 13.1 Duminy to H Masakadza , no run , floated up on middle stump line , Masakadza bunts it back to the bowler Jean-Paul Duminy , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Introduction of spin for the first time in this innings as Duminy comes on 12.6 Behardien to Chibhabha , FOUR , shortish delivery at the batsman , Chibhabha swivels and pulls it to the deep square leg fence , the fielder at deep mid-wicket could only watch the ball run away to the fence 12.5 Behardien to Chibhabha , no run , fullish on the stumps , Chibhabha wrists it to mid-on 12.4 Behardien to Chibhabha , 2 runs , another one in the slot outside off , Chibhabha lofts it inside out over cover , the batsmen take a couple before the sweeper tidies up 12.3 Behardien to Chibhabha , no run , fullish outside off , Chibhabha drives , the fielder from cover runs across , dives to his right and prevents the batsmen from taking the single 12.2 Behardien to Chibhabha , no run , on a good length and on off and middle , Chibhabha pushes it into the on-side off the inside half of the bat 12.1 Behardien to Chibhabha , no run , just short of a good length and jags back in off the pitch , Chibhabha fails to work it through the leg-side and wears in on his thigh pad 11.6 Steyn to H Masakadza , no run , angling in on the pads , Masakadza goes slightly across and works it to mid-on 11.5 Steyn to H Masakadza , no run , in the channel outside off and back of a length , Masakadza defends it towards cover 11.4 Steyn to H Masakadza , no run , just short of a good length and just outside off , punched to mid-off 11.3 Steyn to Chibhabha , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Chibhabha dabs it uppishly to third man 11.2 Steyn to H Masakadza , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , Masakadza goes for the pull and gets a top edge that just about evades de Villiers , who was running back from mid-wicket , the batsmen take a single 11.1 Steyn to Chibhabha , 1 run , shortish and wide outside off , Chibhabha looks to cut , the ball flies off the outside edge to third man , the fielder collects on the bounce The scenes at Hamilton are bizarre. There is sun beating down the ground and there is a drizzle as well. There is a good covering of dark clouds over the ground . 10.6 Behardien to Chibhabha , 1 run , shortish and little wide outside off , Chibhabha cuts it to sweeper cover 10.6 Behardien to Chibhabha , wide , down the leg-side , wided by the umpire , he will have to bowl that one again 10.5 Behardien to H Masakadza , 1 run , on a good length and around off , Masakadza wrists it uppishly past the bowler , the batsmen take a single as the ball rolls away down the ground 10.4 Behardien to Chibhabha , 1 run , drifting on the pads , Chibhabha clips it to deep square leg for anothe run No slips in place for Behardien 10.3 Behardien to H Masakadza , 1 run , on a good length and outside off , Masakadza comes on the front foot and knocks it to sweeper cover for a single 10.2 Behardien to H Masakadza , no run , fullish delivery outside off , driven hard to cover , who moves to his left to stop the ball 10.1 Behardien to Chibhabha , 1 run , very full just outside off , Chibhabha moves across and works it to long-on for a single Farhaan Behardien , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 9.6 Steyn to H Masakadza , no run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Masakadza pushes it back towards the bowler from the crease 9.5 Steyn to Chibhabha , 1 run , on middle and leg stump this time , Chibhabha works it through mid-wicket and gets to the other end 9.4 Steyn to Chibhabha , FOUR , short once again and Chibhabha latches onto it in a flash , he pulls it to the deep mid-wicket fence with ease , good shot that 9.3 Steyn to H Masakadza , 1 run , short delivery outside off and Masakadza pulls it hard , Morkel at mid-on gets down just in time to half-stop the ball , he saved three runs for his team there 9.2 Steyn to H Masakadza , no run , on a good length and on off , Masakadza defends it to point off the front foot 9.1 Steyn to H Masakadza , no run , full and swinging away outside off , left alone by Masakadza 8.6 Philander to Chibhabha , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Chibhabha stays back , opens the face of the bat and looks to steer it past backward point , du Plessis dives to his left and stops the ball , that 's more like the du Plessis we know 8.5 Philander to H Masakadza , 1 run , works this length delivery on the pads past square leg for another run 8.4 Philander to Chibhabha , 1 run , on middle stump line this time around , Chibhabha works it wide of mid-on and de Villiers quickly gets across , slides and fields , he fires in the throw at the non-striker 's end as well , but the batsman was in 8.3 Philander to Chibhabha , no run , bumper outside off , Chibhabha leaves it for the keeper 8.2 Philander to H Masakadza , 1 run , slightly back of a length and outside off , Masakadza hangs back and cuts it past backward point , Steyn from third man runs across , picks the ball up quickly and keeps the batsman down to a single , good fielding effort from the fast bowler 8.1 Philander to H Masakadza , no run , on a good length and around off , Masakadza leans forward and defends off the front foot 7.6 Steyn to Chibhabha , FOUR , angling into the pads , Chibhabha helps it behind square on the on-side for another boundary , the fielder at fine leg was inside the circle and there was no one in the deep 7.5 Steyn to Chibhabha , no run , just short of a good length and just outside off , Chibhabha bunts it to short cover 7.4 Steyn to Chibhabha , no run , good ball from Steyn , it was on a good length and shapes away past Chibhabha 's bat as he pokes at it 7.3 Steyn to Chibhabha , FOUR , a rare misfield from du Plessis gives Chibhabha a boundary , it was fuller and outside off , Chibhabha opens the face of the bat and drives it square of the wicket , du Plessis was at point and dived to his right to make the stop , but the ball went under him 7.2 Steyn to Chibhabha , no run , just short of a good length and just outside off , Chibhabha mistimes the punch towards cover 7.1 Steyn to Chibhabha , leg byes , FOUR , Steyn comes into the attack and bowls a poor delivery on the pads first up , Chibhabha fails to glance it fine , but the ball clips the pad and the pace on it takes it to the fine leg fence Dale Steyn , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 6.6 Philander to Chibhabha , 1 run , slightly fuller just outside off , Chibhabha drives off the front foot to mid-off and sets off , he will keep the strike 6.5 Philander to Chibhabha , no run , slightly short and wide outside off , Chibhabha flashes at it , but could not connect 6.4 Philander to H Masakadza , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Masakadza was pushing at it , gets an outside edge that runs away towards third man , he gets off the mark 6.4 Philander to H Masakadza , wide , bowls a poor delivery way down leg , Masakadza has nothing to do with it and the umpire exercises his arms 6.3 Philander to H Masakadza , no run , slightly wide outside off , Masakadza is happy to let that go Hamilton Masakadza , right handed bat , comes to the crease Can Hamilton Masakadza score a ton in Hamilton ? He 's the in-form batsman for Zimbabwe. Let 's see how he does here . 6.2 Philander to S Raza , out Bowled ! ! Raza perishes after an uncomfortable stay at the crease. Philander takes his first wicket. It was on a good length and just outside off , Raza was pushing at it , but was late on the shot. He ends up getting an inside edge and drags it back onto his off stump , which is uprooted as the ball crashes into it. S Raza b Philander 5 ( 13 ) [ 4s-1 ] Philander to S Raza , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 6.1 Philander to S Raza , no run , fuller delivery outside off , Raza leaves it for the keeper 5.6 M Morkel to Chibhabha , no run , another bumper to end the over , Chibhabha transfers his weight on the back foot and ducks 5.5 M Morkel to Chibhabha , no run , good bouncer at the batsman , Chibhabha ducks underneath and the keeper collects 5.4 M Morkel to Chibhabha , no run , bit straighter in line again , Chibhabha clips it towards mid-wicket 5.3 M Morkel to Chibhabha , no run , back of a length delivery on middle stump line , Chibhabha was looking to work it through the on-side , but was a little too early into the shot , the ball rolls away into the off-side off the handle of the bat 5.2 M Morkel to Chibhabha , no run , good length delivery on off , Chibhabha bunts it to the right of the bowler off the front foot 5.1 M Morkel to Chibhabha , no run , length ball around off , Chibhabha comes on the front foot and defends it towards cover 4.6 Philander to S Raza , no run , good bumper from Philander , Raza just about manages to sway away from the line 4.5 Philander to S Raza , no run , a wild swing from Raza after coming down the track as he tries to hit one out of the park , does n't make a connection at all , the keeper gloves it 4.4 Philander to Chibhabha , 1 run , on the pads , Chibhabha fails to put it away , he gets an inside edge that rolls away into the leg-side and the batsmen pinch a quick single 4.3 Philander to Chibhabha , leg byes , FOUR , banged in short and at the batsman , Chibhabha was taking evasive action as he was ducking , but the ball pings the helmet and flies over the keeper 's head and runs away to the fence Just a slip in place now 4.2 Philander to Chibhabha , no run , slightly back of a length and just outside off , Chibhabha punches it back to the bowler 4.1 Philander to Chibhabha , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Chibhabha gets behind the line and defends with a straight bat 3.6 M Morkel to S Raza , no run , back of a length delivery a little wide outside off , Raza 's eyes lit up looking at the length and the line , but the ball bounces extra and beats the outside edge as Raza was looking to cut 3.5 M Morkel to S Raza , no run , bit straighter again , Raza wrists it down to mid-on 3.4 M Morkel to S Raza , no run , on middle and leg stump line , Raza bunts it towards mid-on and both the batsmen were looking for the single , but Raza sends his partner back in as Steyn from mid-on fires a throw at the non-striker 's end , the batsman was home though 3.3 M Morkel to Chibhabha , 1 run , shapes away outside off and Chibhabha was pushing at it , the ball takes the outside edge and dribbles away to third man 3.3 M Morkel to Chibhabha , wide , bumper that 's a little too high , given as a wide 3.2 M Morkel to Chibhabha , FOUR , fuller in length with a hint of away movement outside off , Chibhabha drives it uppishly and gets it over the fielder at cover , de Villiers from mid-off gives chase , but the ball had enough legs to reach the fence before him 3.1 M Morkel to Chibhabha , no run , slightly back of a length and just outside off , Chibhabha defends it into the off-side 2.6 Philander to Chibhabha , leg byes , 1 run , on the shorter length again and straighter in line , Chibhabha fails to work it through the on-side and wears it on his pad , Philander appealed , but it was a little too high for the umpire 's liking , the batsmen sneak in a leg bye 2.5 Philander to Chibhabha , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Chibhabha gets behind the line and punches it back to the bowler 2.5 Philander to Chibhabha , wide , splays this one down leg , Chibhabha fails to glance it fine , wided by the umpire 2.4 Philander to Chibhabha , no run , fuller around off , Chibhabha leans forward into the drive and drills it back towards the bowler , who fields in his followthrough and fires in a throw at the striker 's end , Chibabha has to rush back inside the crease 2.3 Philander to Chibhabha , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Chibhabha mistimes the punch off the inside half of the bat back to the bowler 2.2 Philander to Chibhabha , no run , full and swings away from outside off , Chibhabha shoulders arms 2.1 Philander to S Raza , 1 run , length delivery around off , Raza drives it wide of mid-off and sets off for a single 1.6 M Morkel to Chibhabha , no run , bowls this one in the channel outside off , Chibabha this time decides to leave it for the keeper 1.5 M Morkel to Chibhabha , no run , slightly fuller and shaping away outside off , Chibhabha was looking to drive off the front foot , the ball goes past the outside edge 1.4 M Morkel to Chibhabha , FOUR , fuller and on the pads , Chibhabha works it behind square on the on-side , Philander runs across from fine leg and puts in the slide , but the ball beats him to the fence 1.3 M Morkel to Chibhabha , FOUR , back of a length delivery outside off , Chibhabha looks to cut it hard , the ball flies off the edge and went very fine , the third man fielder had just a few metres to cover , but the ball crashed into the fence 1.2 M Morkel to Chibhabha , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Chibhabha hangs back and punches it towards point 1.1 M Morkel to Chibhabha , FOUR , slightly fuller and around off , Chibhabha punches it past the non-striker , the ball races away to the fence and the fielder at mid-on had no chance of stopping that Morne Morkel , right-arm fast , comes into the attack Morkel will share the attack with Philander. There are two slips in place for him as well 0.6 Philander to S Raza , FOUR , after bowling three great balls , Philander drags his length back outside off , Raza had a lot of time to rock back and pull it wide of mid-on , the ball races away to the fence in no time and Raza gets off the mark 0.5 Philander to S Raza , no run , peach ! It was on a good length and swings away as Raza was pushing at it off the front foot , the ball goes past the outside edge once again 0.4 Philander to S Raza , no run , another good delivery from Philander , gets it to nip away from outside off , Raza was pushing at it again , the ball goes past the outside edge 0.3 Philander to S Raza , no run , back of a length delivery that shapes away outside off , Raza was poking at it away from his body , the ball shapes past his blade 0.2 Philander to S Raza , no run , gets his line right and bowls this in the channel outside off , Raza leaves 0.2 Philander to S Raza , wide , splays this down leg , good take by de Kock diving to his left , signalled a wide 0.1 Philander to Chibhabha , leg byes , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the pads , Chibhabha tries to help it fine , but ca n't make a connection , the ball rolls away to fine leg off the thigh pad Chibhabha and S Raza are at the crease. Chibhabha is on strike. Philander will open the attack The South African players are making their way out to the centre. Here comes the Zimbabwean opening pair as well. Chibhabha is on strike and Philander will take the new ball for South Africa. There are two slips in place. Here we go then.. . Welcome back. After being 83/4 at one stage , the South Africans have done extremely well to post such a huge total on the board. The pitch is on the slower side and it is going to be a mammoth task for Zimbabwe to chase this down . Zimbabwe 's bowling consisted of two halves. First was when they bowled tight line and lengths and made good use of the variations. Second is when they dished out freebies during the death overs. They gave away 96 runs in the last five overs. With a mountainous total set , it is going to take some getting against the South African attack. Can they give the Proteas a scare ? Or will it be a walk in the park for South Africa ? We 'll be back in a short while with the run-chase. Till then , you can hop tabs and follow the India versus Pakistan game . Since then , it was the Miller and Duminy show. The pair took their time to get going , but once they got their eye in , it was carnage at Hamilton. Duminy was happy to rotate the strike and keep the scoreboard ticking , while Miller bided his time. As soon as they got to their fifties , they shifted gears and took the bowling to the cleaners. The Zimbabwean bowlers also helped them by bowling poorly at the death. The 256-run stand set a few records , none more significant than it being the highest 5th wicket stand in ODI history . Wow ! What a finish to the innings. Miller and Duminy might have just put the match beyond Zimbabwe 's reach. At one stage , they were stuttering at 83/4 , but Miller and Duminy ensured that they got more than a competitive total. de Kock and Amla failed to get going as they could not get a measure of the wicket. It was slow and the ball was not coming on. AB de Villiers and Faf du Plessis battled for a while before both went in quick succession . 49.6 Panyangara to Duminy , FOUR , superb way to finish the innings , it was not a bad delivery , yorker outside off , Duminy bends down and squeezes it through backward point , the timing on that takes it to the fence 49.5 Panyangara to Duminy , SIX , caught in the crowd and a million New Zealand dollars won. He goes berserk and runs across people. It was a length ball on off , it was just about the right length and line for Duminy to get under and launch it over wide long-on. The spectator had a bit of distraction , but he held is nerve and plucked it out with one hand 49.5 Panyangara to Duminy , wide , sees the Duminy backing away and fires it outside off , but it is too wide 49.4 Panyangara to D Miller , 1 run , back of a length around off , Miller swats it in front of square for a single 49.3 Panyangara to Duminy , 1 run , gives the charge and yorks himself , manages to jam it to the on-side 49.2 Panyangara to Duminy , 2 runs , length ball around off , Duminy hoicks it away between deep mid-wicket and long-on , the duo run two before the ball is hunted down 49.1 Panyangara to Duminy , FOUR , Duminy brings up his 3rd ODI hundred. He looks like a relieved man. Raises both his hands towards the sky. It is also his first ton in World Cups. Miller goes up and congratulates him. The entire team is up again , clapping the effort. Coming back to the ball , length delivery on the stumps , Duminy shuffles across and scoops it to the fine leg fence Tinashe Panyangara [ 9.0-2-54-1 ] is back into the attack 48.6 Chatara to Duminy , 1 run , slower short ball , Duminy mistimes the pull to deep square leg , goes on the bounce to the fielder 48.5 Chatara to D Miller , 1 run , worked away down to long-on 48.4 Chatara to Duminy , 1 run , fuller and slanted across off , Duminy drives and ekes out an inside edge to short fine leg 48.3 Chatara to Duminy , no run , touch short and just outside off , Duminy cuts and picks out backward point 48.2 Chatara to Duminy , 2 runs , shortish and just outside off , Duminy mistimes the pull towards deep mid-wicket , the fielder had to run in a long way 48.1 Chatara to Duminy , FOUR , Zimbabwe bowlers have lost it completely , full toss just outside off , Duminy hammers it over mid-off , once it cleared the fielder it was heading in only one direction 48.1 Chatara to Duminy , 3 wides , fires it full and well wide of off , Duminy lets it pass , thankfully Taylor dives and gets a hand , he saves a couple of runs 47.6 Solomon Mire to D Miller , SIX , this is tremendous batting ! We can say this is top class hitting. Mire misses the length and disappears. Full and in the slot , Miller frees his arms and muscles it straight down the ground. The crowd are being entertained thoroughly. 30 runs off the over . 47.5 Solomon Mire to D Miller , FOUR , the carnage continues , short and outside off , Miller hangs back and cuts it over backward point , the fielder ca n't do anything as the ball flies over him The ball has been lost and the umpires call for a replacement. The reserve umpire comes out with a box . 47.4 Solomon Mire to D Miller , SIX , this is rubbish being dished out now , full toss on the pads , Miller says thank you and sends the ball sailing over backward square. He has hit that out of the park . 47.3 Solomon Mire to D Miller , FOUR , Mire not learning from his mistake , the length is short , Miller pulls it in front of square , the fielders in the deep have just become spectators 47.2 Solomon Mire to D Miller , FOUR , short and plenty of width on offer , Miller had all the time in the world to pick his spot , he flays it over extra cover , the fielder runs to his right , dives and allows the ball to go under him 47.1 Solomon Mire to D Miller , SIX , what a way to bring up the 200-run partnership ! It is the best shot that he has played , bit too full and on off , Miller plays the short-arm jab , gets the elevation and the distance. That went a long way over wide long-on Solomon Mire [ 5.0-0-31-0 ] is back into the attack 46.6 Chatara to D Miller , 1 run , gets the yorker right , Miller digs out to long-on and retains strike 46.5 Chatara to Duminy , 1 run , yorker just outside off , Duminy squeezes it to the right of the backward point fielder 46.4 Chatara to Duminy , FOUR , desperate effort at long-on goes in vain , fullish and around off , Duminy heaves it towards long-on , Williams dives to his left to stop the ball , but fails to do so 46.4 Chatara to Duminy , wide , slower delivery goes wrong , well wide of off , Duminy ca n't reach it and wide signalled 46.3 Chatara to Duminy , FOUR , low full toss that is slanted across the left-hander , Duminy uses the pace on the ball and slices the drive past backward point , no chance for the sweeper to stop that 46.2 Chatara to D Miller , 1 run , sees the batsman advance and drops it short , Miller manages to splice the flat-batted swat to long-off 46.1 Chatara to D Miller , FOUR , shortens the length just outside off , Miller mistimes the pull , but he has got it in the gap , splits the fielders at deep mid-wicket and long-on to perfection 45.6 Panyangara to D Miller , 1 run , Miller registers his 2nd ODI ton , he is delighted. It is also his World Cup debut. The whole South African team are on their feet to applaud the effort. He takes off his helmet , waves his bat at the crowd and dressing room. Duminy walks up and hugs him as well as congratulates him. Coming back to the ball , it was a back of a length ball on middle , Miller works it to deep mid-wicket The crowd get louder as Miller is back on strike and he is on 99. . 45.5 Panyangara to Duminy , 1 run , Panyangara gets away with a full toss , Duminy tonks it on the bounce to long-on 45.4 Panyangara to Duminy , FOUR , that is unlucky ! It was the surprise delivery from Panyangara , short and at the batsman , Duminy goes for the pull , gets a top-edge and the ball flies over Taylor 's head 45.3 Panyangara to D Miller , 1 run , low full toss , Miller toe-ends the drive to long-off 45.2 Panyangara to D Miller , SIX , three sixes in as many balls , South Africa are running away now with the game. Panyangara missed the yorker by a couple of inches , Miller gets under it and lofts it inside out , the ball had enough to clear the rope 45.1 Panyangara to D Miller , SIX , repeat of the previous delivery , only difference is Miller the batsman on this occasion. Panyangara dishes out a full toss and pays the price , Miller sends it over long-on for a maximum 44.6 Chatara to Duminy , SIX , there is no margin for error against these two , Chatara fails to get the yorker right , bowls a juicy full toss on off , Duminy clears his front leg and launches it over wide long-on 44.5 Chatara to D Miller , 1 run , pin-point yorker on off , Miller digs it out to long-off 44.5 Chatara to D Miller , no ball , this one slips out of the hand , the attempted yorker goes over waist height , Miller misses out and the umpire calls it a no-ball 44.4 Chatara to Duminy , 1 run , length delivery close to off , Duminy mistimes the heave and drags it to deep mid-wicket 44.3 Chatara to Duminy , FOUR , poor delivery , short and down the leg-side , it was the slower one , Duminy pulls it off the front foot , hits it in the air and behind square , the ball bounces only once before reaching the fence 44.2 Chatara to D Miller , 1 run , too full and around off , Miller squeezes it past the non-striker for a single 44.1 Chatara to Duminy , 1 run , takes the pace off the short ball , Duminy advances down the wicket and pulls it to deep backward square leg 43.6 Panyangara to Duminy , 1 run , spears in a yorker just outside off , Duminy jams it behind point and keeps strike 43.5 Panyangara to D Miller , 1 run , wow ! This came off the toe-end and it travelled pretty quickly to long-off , yorker outside off , Miller squeezes it down to long-off 43.4 Panyangara to Duminy , 1 run , drops it mid-way down the wicket , Duminy swivels on the back foot and pulls it to deep square leg 43.3 Panyangara to D Miller , 1 run , another full toss that Miller has missed out , he drives it along the ground to long-off 43.3 Panyangara to D Miller , wide , sprays it well wide of off , Miller has nothing to do with it 43.2 Panyangara to Duminy , 1 run , back of a length around off , Duminy glides it off the face of the bat to third man 43.1 Panyangara to Duminy , 2 runs , deftly done by JPD , he skips down the wicket , Panyangara sees that and drags the length back , Duminy steers it to third man for a couple , good sliding stop near the rope Tinashe Panyangara [ 7.0-2-27-1 ] is back into the attack 42.6 Chatara to D Miller , 2 runs , right in the blockhole , Miller clears his front leg and digs it out to deep mid-wicket 42.5 Chatara to D Miller , no run , that might have slipped out of his hands , high full toss , Miller charges down and is surprised , he guides it to backward point 42.4 Chatara to Duminy , 1 run , back of a length and close to off , no width to free the arms , Duminy dabs it to third man for a single 42.3 Chatara to Duminy , no run , well directed short delivery , it was right on the stumps , Duminy ducks under it and allows it to sail over 42.2 Chatara to D Miller , 1 run , low full toss on off , Miller drives it along the ground to long-on , he missed out there 42.1 Chatara to D Miller , 2 runs , slower short ball on leg-stump , Miller helps it on the way to fine leg with a pull Tendai Chatara [ 6.0-1-22-1 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Solomon Mire to D Miller , 1 run , good finish to the over after conceding a boundary off the first ball , full and on middle , Miller clips it to deep mid-wicket and retains the strike 41.5 Solomon Mire to Duminy , 1 run , change of pace , no room for Duminy to work with , eased down to long-on 41.4 Solomon Mire to Duminy , no run , shortens the length on off , Duminy inside edges the pull onto the pads , the ball rolls down the wicket 41.3 Solomon Mire to Duminy , no run , third man was inside the circle , Duminy tried to use the pace of the bowler and place it between backward point and short third , he hits it close to the fielder at backward point 41.2 Solomon Mire to D Miller , 1 run , back of a length around off , Miller punches it square of the wicket on the off-side 41.1 Solomon Mire to D Miller , FOUR , Miller is turning it on now ! The slower delivery that is dropped short , Miller hangs on the back foot and plays the short-arm pull , he places it between deep mid-wicket and long-on , the fielder from long-on runs across and dives in vain Solomon Mire [ 4.0-0-24-0 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Sean Williams to Duminy , SIX , monster ! It is time for Duminy to have some fun now. Takes a couple of steps down the pitch , meets the pitch of the ball , takes the aerial route and sends it sailing into the crowd at long-on 40.5 Sean Williams to Duminy , no run , slower and on the stumps , defended to the left of the bowler 40.4 Sean Williams to Duminy , no run , pushes the flatter delivery back to the bowler 40.3 Sean Williams to D Miller , 1 run , goes straight from round the wicket , Miller works it to deep mid-wicket That ball will take some fetching. Meanwhile , the umpires find a substitute as that ball is not coming back. It was a super shot from Miller . 40.2 Sean Williams to D Miller , SIX , humongous six from Miller the Killer , it was floated up by Williams , Miller comes down the track and launches it over the cow corner fence and out of the park as well 40.1 Sean Williams to Duminy , 1 run , quicker one from Williams , Duminy opens the face of the bat and punches it to point , the batsmen sneak in a single Sean Williams [ 7.0-0-30-0 ] is back into the attack The batting powerplay yielded 42 runs 39.6 Kamungozi to Duminy , 1 run , pushed through around middle , Duminy works it through square leg and that brings up the 21st ODI fifty for Duminy 39.5 Kamungozi to D Miller , 1 run , bunts this one down to long-on and gets to the other end 39.4 Kamungozi to D Miller , SIX , slightly short from the leggie , Miller is quick to shift his weight on the back foot and he pulls it over the deep mid-wicket fence for his third six of the innings 39.3 Kamungozi to Duminy , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Duminy comes on the front foot and drives it softly towards mid-off , the batsmen pinch a quick run 39.2 Kamungozi to Duminy , no run , floated up around off , Duminy defends it back to the bowler 39.1 Kamungozi to D Miller , leg byes , 1 run , gives the charge , but ca n't work this flighted delivery on the pads into the on-side , the batsmen sneak in a leg bye as the ball rolls away into the leg-side after clipping the pad Tafadzwa Kamungozi [ 7.0-0-25-1 ] is back into the attack 38.6 Chatara to D Miller , 1 run , pulls this shortish delivery to deep mid-wicket , this single also brings up the 100-run partnership between these two 38.5 Chatara to Duminy , 1 run , length delivery from Chatara , Duminy taps it towards short cover , who ca n't stop the ball as he runs across , the batsmen take a single as the ball rolls away to mid-off 38.4 Chatara to Duminy , 2 runs , just short of a good length and outside off , Duminy opens the face of the bat and punches it to deep backward point , the sweeper tidies up and the batsmen take two 38.3 Chatara to Duminy , no run , angled away wide outside off , Duminy looks to cut , but ends up chopping it towards the point region 38.2 Chatara to D Miller , 1 run , another short delivery from Chatara , Miller mistimes the pull to deep mid-wicket 38.1 Chatara to D Miller , FOUR , banged in short and Miller is on top of it , he goes on the back foot , swivels and pulls it to the deep backward square leg fence Tendai Chatara [ 5.0-1-13-1 ] is back into the attack 37.6 Sean Williams to D Miller , 1 run , on the pads once again , Miller pushes it towards mid-wicket and he will keep the strike 37.5 Sean Williams to D Miller , no run , gives the charge and ends up clipping it to mid-wicket 37.4 Sean Williams to Duminy , 1 run , works this past square leg for another run 37.3 Sean Williams to D Miller , 1 run , gives the charge and bunts it down to long-off , the single brings up his 9th ODI fifty for Miller 37.2 Sean Williams to D Miller , 2 runs , gives the charge and goes for a big heave , ends up dragging it past a diving square leg , Miller did n't time it that well and the batsmen take two before the ball is stopped at the deep square leg boundary 37.1 Sean Williams to Duminy , 1 run , on the pads , Duminy works it to deep mid-wicket for a single 37.1 Sean Williams to Duminy , 3 wides , slowish delivery that turns past the leg stump , Taylor ca n't glove it cleanly behind the stumps and the batsmen sneak in two extra byes apart from the wide 36.6 Panyangara to D Miller , SIX , Panyangara drags his length back and Miller puts on the dancing shoes , he pulls it magnificently over the deep square leg boundary for his second maximum 36.5 Panyangara to D Miller , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Miller mistimes the punch to the right of the bowler 36.4 Panyangara to D Miller , 2 runs , on a good length and just outside off , Miller checks his bunt as the ball stops on him , it goes uppishly over the non-striker and the batsmen take two before the ball is hunted down 36.3 Panyangara to D Miller , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Miller goes across and turns it towards mid-wicket 36.2 Panyangara to Duminy , 1 run , fullish delivery outside off , Duminy leans forward and looks to drive , gets an outside edge that rolls away towards third man 36.1 Panyangara to D Miller , 1 run , back of a length delivery angled across off , Miller goes on the back foot and mistimes the punch towards long-off Tinashe Panyangara [ 6.0-2-17-1 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Sean Williams to Duminy , no run , pushed through on middle and leg , Duminy bunts it back to the bowler 35.5 Sean Williams to Duminy , no run , flighted delivery on the stumps , Duminy defends to the left of the bowler 35.4 Sean Williams to D Miller , 1 run , goes back and tucks it away towards deep mid-wicket 35.3 Sean Williams to Duminy , 1 run , flatter on the stumps , Duminy hangs back and works it behind square for a single 35.2 Sean Williams to D Miller , 1 run , gives the charge and works it past mid-wicket for another single 35.1 Sean Williams to Duminy , 1 run , quicker one on the pads , Duminy works it through mid-wicket for a single Time for the batting powerplay Drinks are on the field now. Both Miller and Duminy have done really well after South Africa were tottering at 83/4 at one stage. However , they need to push on from here and with the batting powerplay still left , Miller and Duminy can make the most of it in the final few overs. Let 's see how they go about it . 34.6 H Masakadza to Duminy , 1 run , angled across off , Duminy punches it in front of mid-off and sets off for a single , the fielder runs forward , picks the ball and fires in the throw at the non-striker 's end , but the batsman was well in 34.5 H Masakadza to Duminy , no run , just short of a good length and on top of off , Duminy stays on the back foot and punches it into the leg-side 34.4 H Masakadza to Duminy , no run , on a good length and around off , Duminy leans forward and defends 34.3 H Masakadza to Duminy , no run , fullish this time around and around off , Duminy looks to drive , gets an inside edge onto the pad 34.2 H Masakadza to Duminy , FOUR , great placement from Duminy this time , it was short and wide outside off , Duminy goes back and cuts it hard , splits the fielder at backward point and short third man to perfection 34.1 H Masakadza to D Miller , 1 run , just short of a good length and on middle stump line , Miller punches it to long-on Hamilton Masakadza , right-arm medium , comes into the attack Hamilton Masakadza comes onto bowl in Hamilton . 33.6 Sean Williams to Duminy , no run , shortish delivery outside off , Duminy rocks back and cuts it to backward point 33.5 Sean Williams to D Miller , 1 run , slightly flatter from Williams , Miller goes back and works it to deep mid-wicket 33.4 Sean Williams to D Miller , no run , steps out of the crease and pushes this flighted delivery back to the bowler 33.3 Sean Williams to D Miller , no run , goes deep in the crease and defends it into the leg-side 33.2 Sean Williams to D Miller , no run , did he get a glove on that ? No , it came off the arm. Miller goes for the sweep , but gets it on the pad , the ball lobs up and takes the arm towards the keeper , who could n't take it cleanly 33.1 Sean Williams to Duminy , 1 run , on the pads this time , Duminy tucks it away to deep square leg and gets to the other end 32.6 Kamungozi to D Miller , no run , takes a step forward and turns this flighted delivery on middle to mid-wicket , Miller was looking for the run , but decides against it after seeing the fielder close to the ball 32.5 Kamungozi to D Miller , no run , floated on off and middle , Miller leans forward and defends it into the leg-side 32.4 Kamungozi to Duminy , 1 run , on middle and leg , Duminy goes back and works it to mid-wicket 32.3 Kamungozi to D Miller , 1 run , hangs back and works this slowish delivery around off to mid-wicket 32.2 Kamungozi to D Miller , FOUR , shortish delivery outside off , Miller goes deep in the crease and drives it through the covers , the ball runs away to the fence 32.1 Kamungozi to Duminy , 1 run , flighted delivery on leg , Duminy stays back and turns it into the on-side , the batsmen pinch a quick single 31.6 Sean Williams to D Miller , no run , floated on middle , Miller turns it to mid-wicket from the crease 31.5 Sean Williams to Duminy , 1 run , straight roller on off and middle , Duminy gets to the pitch of the ball and eases it down to long-on 31.4 Sean Williams to D Miller , 1 run , tossed up on the stumps , Miller comes forward and wrists it down to long-on 31.3 Sean Williams to Duminy , 1 run , goes right back and works this flighted delivery towards mid-wicket and gets to the other end 31.2 Sean Williams to Duminy , no run , pushed through outside off , Duminy goes deep in the crease , opens the face of the bat and looks to guide it down towards short third man , he was looking for the single , but Miller sends him back 31.1 Sean Williams to Duminy , no run , slows this one on middle , punches to short mid-wicket off the back foot Sean Williams [ 3.0-0-12-0 ] is back into the attack 30.6 Kamungozi to Duminy , 1 run , pushed through quicker outside off , Duminy goes back and punches it to long-off , this single also brings up the 50-run stand between these two 30.5 Kamungozi to Duminy , no run , gives this one more air on middle stump line , Duminy defends off the front foot 30.4 Kamungozi to Duminy , no run , flatter and on middle and leg , Duminy goes deep in the crease and punches it to mid-wicket 30.3 Kamungozi to Duminy , no run , flighted delivery on the stumps , driven back towards the bowler 30.2 Kamungozi to Duminy , no run , floated up on off , Duminy gives the charge and drills the drive back towards the bowler , who dives to his left and stops the ball well 30.1 Kamungozi to D Miller , 1 run , tossed up on off and middle , Miller drives it to long-on off the front foot 29.6 Solomon Mire to D Miller , 1 run , keeps it short and outside off , Miller cuts it to sweeper cover 29.5 Solomon Mire to Duminy , 1 run , shortens the length just outside off , Duminy guides it square of the wicket with an open bat face 29.4 Solomon Mire to Duminy , FOUR , drags the slower one halfway down the wicket , Duminy helps it away fine with a pull , the fielder was inside the circle and had no chance of stopping that 29.3 Solomon Mire to Duminy , no run , fuller and on off , Duminy wrists it to mid-on 29.2 Solomon Mire to Duminy , no run , on a length just outside off , Duminy goes for the cut even though it was not short enough , under-edges it to the keeper 29.1 Solomon Mire to Duminy , no run , angled across the left-hander , Duminy mistimes the drive to cover , he went hard on the drive 28.6 Kamungozi to Duminy , 1 run , slows it up generously on off , Duminy nurdles it to the left of mid-wicket 28.5 Kamungozi to Duminy , no run , fraction short and just outside off , Duminy goes back and cuts it straight to cover-point 28.4 Kamungozi to D Miller , 1 run , tossed up on off and middle , Miller works it down to long-on 28.3 Kamungozi to D Miller , no run , nudges it away with the turn to backward square fielder , picks out the fielder there 28.2 Kamungozi to Duminy , 1 run , straight roller outside off , Duminy presses forward and drives it to long-off 28.1 Kamungozi to D Miller , 1 run , flighted on off , Miller leans forward and turns it to square leg 27.6 Solomon Mire to Duminy , no run , back of a length close to off , Duminy goes on his toes and bunts it to cover 27.5 Solomon Mire to Duminy , 2 runs , off-speed delivery from Mire , Duminy shuffles across and pulls it to deep backward square leg 27.4 Solomon Mire to D Miller , 1 run , short of length on the hips , tucked away behind square on the leg-side 27.3 Solomon Mire to Duminy , 1 run , a slight fumble by Raza and the duo hare across for a single , Duminy pushes it to short cover , Raza dives and stops the ball , but when he dived , the ball popped out of his hands 27.2 Solomon Mire to Duminy , 2 runs , short and room available for Duminy to work with , he slashes a cut to deep backward point for a brace 27.2 Solomon Mire to Duminy , wide , splays it down the leg-side , Duminy ca n't lay bat on ball , wide called A slip is in place. So , Chigumbura not afraid to keep attacking.. . 27.1 Solomon Mire to Duminy , no run , back of a length on off , Duminy sits back and dabs it to backward point Solomon Mire [ 2.0-0-11-0 ] is back into the attack 26.6 Kamungozi to Duminy , 1 run , easily done by JPD , plays it with soft hands and works it to the left of mid-wicket 26.5 Kamungozi to D Miller , 1 run , floated up on off , Miller nudges it to long-on for an easy single 26.4 Kamungozi to Duminy , 1 run , uses the depth of the crease and punches it to long-on 26.3 Kamungozi to Duminy , no run , shimmies down the pitch and whips it to short mid-wicket , hits it straight to the fielder 26.2 Kamungozi to D Miller , 1 run , pitched up on off , Miller leans into the drive to long-on 26.1 Kamungozi to Duminy , 1 run , tossed up on off , Duminy gets to the pitch and wrists it to long-on 25.6 S Raza to Duminy , 1 run , flighted on off , Duminy leans forward and works it to long-on 25.5 S Raza to D Miller , 1 run , meets the pitch of the ball and drives it to long-off 25.4 S Raza to Duminy , 1 run , low full toss on off , Duminy eases it away to long-on 25.3 S Raza to Duminy , 2 runs , this was not all that short , Duminy goes for the pull , gets it high on the bat , the ball spoons up and just clears the mid-wicket fielder 25.2 S Raza to D Miller , 1 run , quicker , fuller and on off , Miller drives it to long-off 25.1 S Raza to Duminy , 1 run , bunts it away to long-on 24.6 Kamungozi to Duminy , 1 run , waits for the ball to arrive and then steers it to short third man 24.5 Kamungozi to Duminy , no run , tossed up close to off , Duminy lunges forward and blocks it to the right of the bowler 24.4 Kamungozi to Duminy , no run , goes back and across , punches it to short mid-wicket , picks out Raza there 24.3 Kamungozi to Duminy , no run , flatter and on off , Duminy punches it to the left of the bowler , Kamungozi dives and parries it towards mid-wicket 24.2 Kamungozi to D Miller , 1 run , floated up outside off , Miller drives it down to long-off 24.1 Kamungozi to D Miller , 2 runs , too straight from Kamungozi , Miller leans forward and flicks it to the right of deep mid-wicket 23.6 S Raza to Duminy , 2 runs , too full and on the pads , Duminy stays in the crease and clips it to deep mid-wicket , there was no one in deep and the batsmen pick up an easy two 23.5 S Raza to Duminy , 2 runs , halfway down the wicket , Duminy goes right back and cuts it in front of square , the sweeper tidies up in the deep 23.4 S Raza to Duminy , no run , flighted on off , Duminy camps on the back foot and knocks it to short mid-wicket 23.3 S Raza to D Miller , 1 run , pushed through on the stumps , Miller works it to long-on 23.3 S Raza to D Miller , wide , fired down the leg-side , Miller ca n't connect with the glance , rightly called a wide , Taylor whips the bails off but Miller was not going anywhere 23.2 S Raza to Duminy , 1 run , throws this up gently , Duminy leans forward and knocks it square of the wicket on the leg-side 23.1 S Raza to D Miller , 1 run , tossed up on off , Miller kneels down and under-edges the sweep to long leg 22.6 Kamungozi to D Miller , 1 run , floated up on middle and leg , Miller clips it to deep mid-wicket 22.5 Kamungozi to D Miller , no run , flighted on off and middle , Miller leans forward and turns it to mid-wicket 22.4 Kamungozi to D Miller , no run , works it with the spin to backward square , finds the fielder 22.3 Kamungozi to Duminy , 1 run , almost another one ! Duminy goes deep in the crease and checks his shot , the ball might have stopped on him as he chips it right between the bowler and short mid-wicket , the ball rolls away to long-on 22.2 Kamungozi to Duminy , no run , drives it without much timing to mid-off 22.1 Kamungozi to Duminy , no run , nice loopy leg-break , Duminy presses forward and pushes it to mid-off 21.6 S Raza to Duminy , 1 run , again , the length is short and outside off , Duminy slaps it square of the wicket on the off-side 21.5 S Raza to Duminy , no run , tosses it up on off , Duminy shuffles across and defends back to the bowler 21.4 S Raza to D Miller , 1 run , drops it short and outside off , cut away to sweeper cover 21.3 S Raza to Duminy , 1 run , floated up just outside off , Duminy plays an extended forward defensive wide of cover 21.2 S Raza to Duminy , no run , slower and close to off , Duminy hangs back and knocks it to the off-side 21.1 S Raza to D Miller , 1 run , drops it touch short , Miller pulls it along the floor to deep square leg Sikandar Raza , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 20.6 Kamungozi to Duminy , no run , tossed up on off , Duminy blocks it down the wicket 20.5 Kamungozi to D Miller , 1 run , flatter and on off , Miller nudges it off the back foot to deep mid-wicket 20.4 Kamungozi to D Miller , no run , too full and around off , Miller wrists it to the left of the bowler , diving stop by Kamungozi 20.3 Kamungozi to D Miller , no run , flighted on off , Miller leans forward and blocks it to the off-side Jean-Paul Duminy , left handed bat , comes to the crease 20.2 Kamungozi to de Villiers , out Caught by C Ervine ! ! Huge wicket for Zimbabwe ! This might just change the course of the game. Kamungozi strikes with his second delivery. de Villiers decides to take on the leg-spinner , skips out of the crease , does n't get to the pitch of the ball , but still goes through with the loft , hits it towards long-off , Ervine runs across to his right , holds onto the catch , the momentum was taking him over the rope , tosses the ball up , goes out of the rope , comes back and completes the catch. It needed something like that to dismiss ABD. de Villiers c C Ervine b Kamungozi 25 ( 36 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] Kamungozi to de Villiers , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! ABD has been caught ! The umpires are checking if the fielder took it cleanly. Ervine might have just pulled off a stunner. The replays suggest that it seems fine. Up goes the finger and de Villiers goes back . 20.1 Kamungozi to de Villiers , no run , pushes the first one through , de Villiers bunts it towards short mid-wicket Tafadzwa Kamungozi , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 19.6 Sean Williams to D Miller , no run , goes deep in the crease and punches it to the left of the bowler , Williams dives and makes a superb stop , saved a run there 19.5 Sean Williams to D Miller , no run , slower and on off , Miller is half-forward and defending to cover 19.4 Sean Williams to de Villiers , 1 run , flat and close to off , de Villiers stays leg-side of the ball and punches it to sweeper cover 19.3 Sean Williams to de Villiers , no run , nice floaty delivery on off , de Villiers knocks it to cover and calls " no " for the single 19.2 Sean Williams to D Miller , 1 run , walks across his stumps and nurdles it to deep square leg 19.1 Sean Williams to de Villiers , 1 run , short and around off , de Villiers pulls it along the ground to long-on 18.6 Chigumbura to D Miller , no run , on a length close to off , Miller presses it to the right of Chigumbura after coming forward 18.5 Chigumbura to D Miller , no run , fraction short , Miller swivels and toe-ends the pull to short mid-wicket , Raza dives and makes a fine stop 18.4 Chigumbura to D Miller , no run , shortens the length on middle , Miller drops it in front of short mid-wicket 18.3 Chigumbura to D Miller , no run , back of a length on off , Miller gets behind the line and defends it back to Chigu 18.2 Chigumbura to D Miller , no run , this one holds its line , Miller looks to defend with minimal footwork , gets an inside edge onto the pad and the ball lobs to the on-side and lands safely 18.1 Chigumbura to D Miller , SIX , free hit ball and Chigumbura bowls a freebie , full toss on off and middle , it was actually the attempted yorker , Miller bends down , gets under it and heaves it over deep mid-wicket for a maximum Free hit coming up ! 18.1 Chigumbura to de Villiers , no ball , 1 run , goes wide of the crease and oversteps , keeps it short and outside off , de Villiers glides it to third man 17.6 Sean Williams to D Miller , no run , pulls the length back , Miller gets inside the line and works it to square leg , straight to the fielder 17.5 Sean Williams to D Miller , no run , tosses it up on off , Miller leans forward and turns it to short mid-wicket Williams goes round the wicket to Miller 17.4 Sean Williams to D Miller , 2 runs , floated up around off , Miller shuffles across and clips it through mid-wicket , the fielder from long-on tidies up 17.3 Sean Williams to de Villiers , 1 run , gives this plenty of air , de Villiers drives it inside out to deep extra cover 17.2 Sean Williams to D Miller , 1 run , too full and on the stumps , Miller drives it to long-on 17.1 Sean Williams to de Villiers , 1 run , eases the flighted delivery to sweeper cover David Miller , left handed bat , comes to the crease 16.6 Chigumbura to du Plessis , out Caught by Brendan Taylor ! ! Soft , soft dismissal. It is the most horrible way to get out. Strangled down the leg-side ! The umpires check for the no-ball , it is fine. Faf hangs his head back as he walks off. Full and on leg-stump , du Plessis shuffles across and glances it fine , Taylor moves to his left and snaffles the take. du Plessis c Brendan Taylor b Chigumbura 24 ( 32 ) [ 6s-1 ] Chigumbura to du Plessis , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 16.5 Chigumbura to du Plessis , no run , Chigu keeps it wicket-to-wicket now , du Plessis stays behind the line and turns it short mid-wicket 16.4 Chigumbura to du Plessis , SIX , what a shot ! That came out of nowhere. Faf till now was happy to knock the ball around , this time he decides to give the charge and hit through the line , the ball sails over the long-off fence 16.3 Chigumbura to du Plessis , no run , back of a length around off , du Plessis stands tall and punches it to cover 16.2 Chigumbura to de Villiers , 1 run , drops it short and outside off , de Villiers flashes a cut to sweeper cover , either side of the fielder and he would have picked up four 16.1 Chigumbura to du Plessis , 1 run , provides a bit of width , steered away with an angled bat to third man The drinks come on the field ! Zimbabwe started off well nipping out de Kock and Amla. Since then , these two have steadied the innings. A lot depends on this partnership , if South Africa have to post a competitive total on the board . 15.6 Sean Williams to du Plessis , 1 run , flatter on off and middle , du Plessis eases it off the back foot to long-on 15.5 Sean Williams to de Villiers , 1 run , nice loopy delivery , de Villiers leans forward , rolls his wrists on it and works it wide of mid-wicket 15.4 Sean Williams to du Plessis , 1 run , drags the length back , du Plessis punches it to deep cover 15.3 Sean Williams to du Plessis , no run , slows it up around off , du Plessis taps it off the front foot to backward point 15.2 Sean Williams to de Villiers , 1 run , touch short and just outside off , de Villiers cuts it to sweeper cover 15.1 Sean Williams to de Villiers , no run , flighted well wide of off , de Villiers drives and picks out cover Sean Williams , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 14.6 Chigumbura to du Plessis , 2 runs , angling in on off and middle , du Plessis was looking to work it through the on-side and the ball rolls away behind square off the inside half of the bat , the batsmen decide to take on the throw and come back for the second , a good throw would have made things interesting , but for now , du Plessis makes his ground 14.5 Chigumbura to de Villiers , 1 run , length delivery outside off , de Villiers steers it down to third man for a single 14.4 Chigumbura to du Plessis , 1 run , du Plessis steps out and Chigu bowls this short at him , du Plessis pulls it towards deep mid-wicket , he controlled it well 14.3 Chigumbura to de Villiers , 1 run , in the channel outside off , de Villiers hangs back and guides it to third man 14.2 Chigumbura to de Villiers , no run , closer to the off stump this time around , de Villiers defends it into the off-side 14.2 Chigumbura to de Villiers , wide , it 's Chigu 's turn to bowl it down leg after seeing de Villiers shuffle across , wided by the umpire 14.1 Chigumbura to du Plessis , 1 run , slightly wide outside off , du Plessis hangs his bat at it , opens the face and steers it to third man 13.6 Solomon Mire to du Plessis , 1 run , angling in on off and middle , du Plessis bunts it down to long-on and he will retain strike 13.6 Solomon Mire to du Plessis , wide , Mire bowls this one down leg see du Plessis move across , he got it a little too straight for his liking and the umpire calls it a wide 13.5 Solomon Mire to du Plessis , 2 runs , shuffles across to this length delivery on off and middle , he clips it behind square for a brace 13.4 Solomon Mire to du Plessis , no run , slightly fuller in length this time , du Plessis presses forward and drives it to mid-off , he was looking for the single , but it 's not there 13.3 Solomon Mire to de Villiers , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , de Villiers punches it to sweeper cover off the back foot 13.2 Solomon Mire to du Plessis , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , du Plessis goes deep in the crease and dabs it towards third man for an easy single 13.1 Solomon Mire to de Villiers , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , de Villiers hangs back , opens the face of the bat and guides it to third man 12.6 Chigumbura to de Villiers , 1 run , touch fuller on off and middle this time , de Villiers eases it down to long-on and he will keep the strike 12.5 Chigumbura to de Villiers , FOUR , banged in short from Chigu , de Villiers comes down the track and flat-bats the pull past a diving mid-wicket , the ball raced away to the fence 12.4 Chigumbura to de Villiers , no run , good ball from Chigu , it was on a length and on off , de Villiers looks to defend and gets an inside edge onto the pad 12.3 Chigumbura to du Plessis , 1 run , drop-and-run single from du Plessis as he drops this short of length delivery in front of cover and sets off for a single 12.2 Chigumbura to du Plessis , no run , back of a length delivery around off , du Plessis jumps and punches it to backward point 12.2 Chigumbura to du Plessis , wide , bowls this one way down leg , du Plessis ca n't get it fine and the keeper dives to his left and daves four extra runs for his team , called a wide though by the umpire There are no slips in place for Chigu 12.1 Chigumbura to du Plessis , no run , just short of a good length and around off , du Plessis hangs back and defends with a straight bat Elton Chigumbura , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 11.6 Solomon Mire to de Villiers , no run , almost a yorker on off , de Villiers manages to squeeze the drive out into the on-side 11.5 Solomon Mire to de Villiers , no run , length delivery outside off , de Villiers leans into the drive and was early into the shot , he checks his shot , the ball goes uppishly and luckily for de Villiers , it drops just short of a diving cover 11.4 Solomon Mire to de Villiers , no run , tries to bowl a yorker , but ends up bowling a low full toss , de Villiers helps it straight to mid-on 11.3 Solomon Mire to du Plessis , 1 run , du Plessis waits for this length delivery outside off , steers it to third man after opening the face of the bat and gets to the other end 11.2 Solomon Mire to du Plessis , 2 runs , length delivery on off , du Plessis moves across just a touch and works it behind square , the batsmen run for a brace 11.1 Solomon Mire to de Villiers , 1 run , in the channel outside off , de Villiers stays deep in the crease and guides it to third man , the batsmen were looking for the second there , but decide against it after the fielder quickly got to the ball Solomon Mire , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack First bowling change as Mire replaces Chatara into the attack 10.6 Panyangara to du Plessis , no run , goes across his stumps and wrists this length delivery into the leg-side 10.5 Panyangara to du Plessis , no run , closer to the off stump this time , du Plessis defends it to cover 10.4 Panyangara to du Plessis , no run , bowls this one a little wide outside off , du Plessis is happy to leave it alone 10.3 Panyangara to de Villiers , 1 run , length delivery outside off , de Villiers waits inside the crease and dabs it to third man for a single 10.2 Panyangara to de Villiers , no run , banged in short and at the batsman , de Villiers gave the charge and ends up mistiming the pull to mid-wicket 10.1 Panyangara to du Plessis , 1 run , in the airrrr and safe ! It was another length delivery outside off , du Plessis gives the charge and checks his shot , ends up chipping it towards mid-off , where Chigu misjudges it completely as he took two steps back before realizing that the ball was well short of him , he then puts in the dive , but the ball just falls short and du Plessis survives 9.6 Chatara to de Villiers , no run , back of a length delivery on top of off , de Villiers hops in the crease and defends 9.5 Chatara to de Villiers , SIX , de Villiers gets off the mark with a maximum , he gave the charge this time around and lofted this length delivery over mid-off , the ball hit the rope on the full and the umpire signals a six after checking with the TV umpire 9.4 Chatara to de Villiers , no run , slightly back of a length and just outside off , de Villiers looks to cut , but it was too close too his body , ends up chopping it towards cover 9.3 Chatara to de Villiers , no run , on a good length and around off , de Villiers punches it towards mid-on and was looking for the single , du Plessis was also looking to go through with it , but de Villiers sends him back after seeing the mid-on fielder charge towards the ball 9.2 Chatara to de Villiers , no run , de Villiers walks across and decides to leave this delivery outside off , the keeper collects 9.1 Chatara to du Plessis , 1 run , touch fuller and outside off , du Plessis hangs back and guides it to third man after opening the face of the bat , easy single for the South African vice-captain 8.6 Panyangara to de Villiers , no run , length delivery just outside off , de Villiers steps out of the crease and pushes it back towards the bowler , who grabs the ball and tries to fire in a throw , but tumbles while doing so 8.5 Panyangara to de Villiers , no run , in the channel around off , de Villiers is happy to defend this one as well 8.4 Panyangara to de Villiers , no run , fullish delivery outside off , de Villiers shoulders arms after covering his stumps 8.3 Panyangara to de Villiers , no run , on a good length and just outside off , de Villiers covers the stumps , gets behind the line and solidly blocks 8.2 Panyangara to de Villiers , no run , length delivery just outside off , de Villiers leans forward and defends AB de Villiers , right handed bat , comes to the crease 8.1 Panyangara to Amla , out Bowled ! ! Amla is gone now and Panyangara is ecstatic. South Africa are in trouble here. It was a slower short of a good length delivery and was just outside off , Amla hangs his bat at it and was probably early into the push , gets an inside edge onto the thigh pad and the ball crashes into the off stump. Panyangara , who had fallen in his followthrough celebrates with a worm-like movement on the pitch. Amla b Panyangara 11 ( 26 ) [ 4s-1 ] Panyangara to Amla , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! There are quite a few Indians in the crowd. The Dhols are out and they are enjoying out there 7.6 Chatara to Amla , 1 run , bowls this on a good length and on off , Amla walks across and works it behind square for another single 7.5 Chatara to Amla , no run , length delivery outside off , Amla shuffles across and blocks 7.4 Chatara to Amla , no run , goes right across once again and misses the clip through the on-side , the ball clips the pad and rolls away into the off-side 7.3 Chatara to Amla , no run , bumper for the first time today , it was outside off as well. Amla , who had moved across his stumps leaves it alone 7.2 Chatara to Amla , no run , in the channel outside off , Amla covers the stumps and defends 7.1 Chatara to Amla , no run , just short of a good length and angled in on off , Amla was looking to work it through the on-side after shuffling across , but fails to make a connection and wears it high on his pad , the umpire gave him out straightaway , but the ball was going over the sticks Amla has been given out lbw. He has decided to review the decision. Chatara 's foot is fine. Amla survives as Hawk-Eye deems it to be too high and missing the stumps. The decision will be overturned and Amla survives 6.6 Panyangara to Amla , 1 run , Amla stays right back to this length delivery outside off , he dabs it towards third man after opening the face of the bat and he will keep the strike as well 6.5 Panyangara to Amla , 2 runs , Amla 's wrists are at it again as he moves outside off and flicks this off-cutter from Panyangara through square leg , this time though the timing was n't that great and the batsmen take a couple before the fielder from deep backward square leg tidies up 6.4 Panyangara to Amla , no run , bowls this one on a length and outside off , Amla presses forward and defends it into the off-side 6.3 Panyangara to Amla , FOUR , goes right across his stumps and whips this length delivery through square leg , this time Chibabha had no chance of stopping that as the ball runs away to the fence 6.2 Panyangara to Amla , no run , length delivery on off and middle , Amla works it towards square leg off the inside half of the bat , Chibabha from mid-wicket runs to his right , puts in the dive and stops the ball , good fielding there from him 6.1 Panyangara to Amla , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Amla punches it to short cover 5.6 Chatara to du Plessis , no run , good length delivery just outside off , du Plessis works it to short mid-wicket 5.5 Chatara to du Plessis , no run , angled on the pads , du Plessis fails to nurdle it into the on-side and wears it on his thigh pad 5.4 Chatara to du Plessis , no run , bowls this one on a length and outside off , du Plessis goes across once again and turns it into the leg-side 5.3 Chatara to du Plessis , no run , just short of a good length and around off , du Plessis hangs back and blocks it towards the cover-point region 5.2 Chatara to du Plessis , no run , length delivery outside off , du Plessis goes across and bunts it towards mid-on off the inside half of the bat 5.1 Chatara to du Plessis , no run , length delivery outside off , du Plessis leans forward and blocks it into the off-side 4.6 Panyangara to Amla , no run , on a good length and around off , Amla gets behind the line and offers a straight bat to it 4.6 Panyangara to Amla , wide , poor , poor delivery from Panyangara , it was way down the leg side , it came off the side of the hand and must have slipped out , Taylor dives full length to his left and collects the ball , good effort from the keeper to save four for his team 4.5 Panyangara to Amla , no run , length delivery on off , Amla comes forward and across , pushed to mid-on 4.4 Panyangara to Amla , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Amla gets behind the line and defends , the ball takes the inside edge onto the pad and rolls away next to the pitch 4.3 Panyangara to du Plessis , 1 run , not a good ball to the new man , it was touch too straight , du Plessis goes across and flicks it to fine leg for a single Two slips in place for Faf 4.2 Panyangara to Amla , 1 run , angling on middle stump line , Amla moves across and works it wide of mid-on , the batsmen pinch a quick single 4.1 Panyangara to Amla , no run , in the channel just outside off and shaping away just a touch , Amla shoulders arms Faf du Plessis , right handed bat , comes to the crease Chigumbura will also be happy with his decision to take the second slip out and instead have a catching cover . 3.6 Chatara to de Kock , out Caught by C Ervine ! ! Zimbabwe have drawn first blood here at Hamilton. Chatara is ecstatic with the wicket and de Kock has to go. It was on a good length and just around off. de Kock was early into the drive , but was n't really upto the pitch of the ball. The ball stopped on him as well and he ends up chipping it straight to Ervine at short cover. de Kock c C Ervine b Chatara 7 ( 16 ) [ 4s-1 ] Chatara to de Kock , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 3.5 Chatara to de Kock , no run , just short of a good length and angling away outside off , de Kock punches it into the off-side 3.4 Chatara to de Kock , 2 runs , shortish and wide outside off , de Kock chases it and cuts it towards the sweeper cover region , the fielder from cover gives chase and keeps them down to a couple 3.3 Chatara to de Kock , no run , good bit of bounce on that one and de Kock was n't sure of what to do , he was expecting the ball to be a little quicker as he was pushing at it , goes past the under edge 3.2 Chatara to de Kock , no run , length delivery just outside off , de Kock punches it to mid-off 3.1 Chatara to de Kock , no run , slightly short and wide outside off , de Kock looks to cut , but the ball goes past his blade and through to the keeper 2.6 Panyangara to Amla , no run , Panyangara tumbles in his followthrough and manages to stop the drive from Amla with his foot , good bit of effort from the bowler even after he fell down , saved some runs for his team For Amla , the second slip has been moved to a gully position 2.5 Panyangara to Amla , no run , in the channel outside off , Amla moves across and turns it into the on-side 2.4 Panyangara to de Kock , 1 run , length delivery on off , de Kock was early into the shot and it looked like that the ball stopped just a little , de Kock gets an outside edge that rolls away to third man 2.3 Panyangara to de Kock , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , de Kock taps it into the off-side 2.2 Panyangara to de Kock , FOUR , fuller in length and slightly wide outside off , de Kock leans forward and drives it to the sweeper cover fence , gets off the mark with a boundary The second slip is now in a catching cover position 2.1 Panyangara to de Kock , no run , on a good length and angled across de Kock , who punches it to mid-off 1.6 Chatara to Amla , no run , just short of a good length and just outside off , Amla defends it into the off-side from the crease 1.6 Chatara to Amla , wide , sprays this one down leg , Amla fails to glance it fine and the umpire signals a wide 1.5 Chatara to Amla , no run , slightly back of a length and around off , Amla gets behind the line and defends solidly 1.4 Chatara to Amla , no run , on a good length and angling on middle stump line , Amla pushes it to mid-on 1.3 Chatara to Amla , 2 runs , fuller in length and shaping away outside off , Amla comes on the front foot and drives it wide of mid-off , Chigu gives chase and keeps them down to a couple , South Africa and Amla are off the mark 1.2 Chatara to Amla , no run , fullish delivery just outside off , Amla drives it towards point off the outside half of the bat Two slips in place for Chatara as well 1.1 Chatara to Amla , no run , just short of a good length and just outside off , Amla goes slightly across and wrists it towards mid-wicket Tendai Chatara , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Panyangara to de Kock , no run , just short of a good length and just outside off , de Kock punches it back to the bowler , a maiden to start things for Zimbabwe 0.5 Panyangara to de Kock , no run , shapes away just a touch from outside off , de Kock leaves it for the keeper 0.4 Panyangara to de Kock , no run , length delivery outside off , de Kock comes on the front foot and drives it to cover 0.3 Panyangara to de Kock , no run , good ball from Panyangara , it was on a good length and shapes in just a touch from outside off , de Kock was shouldering arms , but the ball was't too far away from the off stump 0.2 Panyangara to de Kock , no run , on a good length and angling away outside off , de Kock bunts it to mid-off 0.1 Panyangara to de Kock , no run , fullish delivery outside off , de Kock leans forward and drives towards cover , who dives to his left and stops the ball de Kock and Amla are at the crease. de Kock is on strike. Panyangara will open the attack The umpire says , 'Let 's play'. Here we go... . The Zimbabweans are in a huddle as the South African openers walk out. Quinton de Kock will take the strike first up and Panyangara will open the bowling for Zimbabwe. There are two slips in place for him . The teams are out there for the national anthems. Zimbabwe 's national anthem is being played first and it will be followed by the South African national anthem . STAT-ATTACK : Despite having stunned South Africa by 48 runs in the 1999 World Cup , Zimbabwe have n't won against them since 2000 . Teams : South Africa ( Playing XI ) : Quinton de Kock ( w ) , Hashim Amla , Faf du Plessis , AB de Villiers ( c ) , David Miller , Jean-Paul Duminy , Farhaan Behardien , Vernon Philander , Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel , Imran Tahir Zimbabwe ( Playing XI ) : Chamu Chibhabha , Sikandar Raza , Hamilton Masakadza , Brendan Taylor ( w ) , Sean Williams , Craig Ervine , Elton Chigumbura ( c ) , Solomon Mire , Tinashe Panyangara , Tendai Chatara , Tafadzwa Kamungozi Pitch Report : 'First of all , it looks pretty good. It is a nicely covered surface. There is a bit of grass on the pitch , but it 's all dead. Straw coloured , if you are a bowler , you would think that it is not a good day to be a bowler. But the expectation is that it will start off a little slow. It wo n't be a quick pitch by any stretch of the imagination. It is going to be nice and even for the batsmen, ' reckons Pommie Mbangwa de Villiers : 'It has been quite long. We are all fresh and ready to go. Really excited for the World Cup. We were also thinking about bowling first. I am happy to see the sun out and we are happy to bat. We will have to work hard for the first 10 overs. All 15 are fit and really happy with the 11. We have got a nice balanced side.' Chigumbura : " We are excited to play the first game. We have prepared well and it is now time to do the job. I am going to bowl first. It is a good ground to chase down and hopefully we can do that. It looks like a good wicket and should play well. The guys are in good form and hopefully , we can show the good form that we showed in the warm-up games. " Zimbabwe have won the toss and have opted to field Well , that seems enough regarding both teams and their build-up to the tournament. Now we wait for the team compositions and the toss , which is not far away. So stay tuned and do n't go anywhere. . Zimbabwe Elton Chigumbura will lead this talented side and he has Hamilton Masakadza and Brendan Taylor - two of the most experienced batsmen in the line-up to support him. Masakadza , who missed out the previous World Cup , is desperate to make a mark and he showed that when he scored a brilliant hundred against Sri Lanka in the practice game. Panyangara and Chatar will spearhead the attack. Utseya and Sean Williams will play a key role as well. If they play to their potential , Zimbabwe can be dangerous . Meanwhile , Zimbabwe have caught a few eye balls with their performances in the practice games. In the first game against New Zealand , they had them on the mat at 187/7 when the rain Gods intervened and beat Sri Lanka in the second by chasing down 279. Dav Whatmore , who took over as the head coach just before the World Cup , already seems to be doing wonders with the team. We will have to see whether they can cause a few upsets . South Africa South Africa look a balanced side. Amla at the top is in scintillating form , while AB de Villiers has been in a purple patch for quite some time now. Quinton de Kock and Faf du Plessis make up the top-order , the former provides the firepower and the latter a steady head in the otherwise aggressive batting order. David Miller and JP Duminy slot into the the lower middle order. Dale Steyn will lead the attack with Morne Morkel , Vernon Philander and Imran Tahir playing the supporting role. Their only area of weakness will be the all-rounders role. Farhaan Behardien and Wayne Parnell will be fighting for the remaining one spot . The Proteas , as has been the norm , enter each World Cup as one of the favorites , but fail to go the distance every single time. Once again they are billed as the top team , whether they can go all the way remains to be seen. Their form has been brilliant leading up to the competition. They are coming on the back of a 4-1 series win against West Indies at home. Though they lost the practice game to New Zealand , it can be considered as one off day . Let 's take a look at the recent form of both the teams , including their expected team compositions . The first day of the 2015 World Cup already saw plenty of action. In both the matches that were played , the teams batting first managed to score over 330. There were plenty of first-timers , who have already started to make a mark in the biggest tournament of all. If it was Corey Anderson and Kane Williamson in the first game , then Aaron Finch , Glenn Maxwell , Steven Finn and James Taylor shone in the second. We are into the second day and it is time for another one of the contenders - South Africa to start their campaign when they take on Zimbabwe at Hamilton . Preview : One team is considered as one of the favourites of the tournament ; the other is n't good enough to deserve consideration. Be that as it may , come Sunday when South Africa play their neighbours Zimbabwe in an ICC World Cup Pool B match at Hamilton 's Seddon Park , there would be no dearth of excitement among expatriates from both countries . There is a huge contrast in both teams ' challenge. South Africa have gone into the past World Cups mostly as favourites but their best performances have been semi-final appearances in 1992 , 1999 and 2007. Can they go all the way this time and shake off their " chokers " tag ? That 's the question on every South African 's lips . The Proteas turned in a mixed performance in the two warm-ups leading up to this day-nighter. They beat Sri Lanka by five wickets in a rain-curtailed contest before New Zealand , one of the pre-tournament favourites , brought them down several pegs by inflicting a 134-run defeat. The latter performance indicated amply that the South Africans have n't completely cast off their habit of absolutely falling apart on a bad day . Surprisingly , Zimbabwe , going in the tournament as the number 10 team in the ODI rankings , did very well in their warm-ups. In their match against New Zealand , they had reduced the hosts to 157 for 7 before rain brought the contest to a premature end. And then in their second game , they stunned 2011 World Cup finalists Sri Lanka by chasing down 280. Clearly , Zimbabwe are capable of spoiling a couple of parties and if they somehow could get the better of their much-superior opponents on Sunday , they could even begin dreaming of their maiden knockout appearance . The importance of seasoned batsman Brendan Taylor 's wicket and Zimbabwe 's upset win against Australia in a triangular series last year were n't lost on South Africa captain AB de Villiers on the eve of the match. " He 's [ Brendan Taylor ] just always been the thorn in the side for us growing up , and he 's still a great player , and he 's done so well in his career , " De Villiers said on Saturday . " Lots of credit to him , and we will witness his capabilities in tomorrow 's game , and the other boys. Look , they beat Australia not long ago. They 're a dangerous side. " South Africa are also looking over their shoulders over the fitness of batsman Farhaan Behardien who is battling a back injury. In case the 31-year-old fails to get fit in time , fast bowler Wayne Parnell could be drafted into the XI. Zimbabwe , on the other hand , face no such concerns. The pitch at Seddon Park is expected to be full of runs and when one adds up short boundaries to the equation , things look more harrowing for the bowlers . Despite having stunned South Africa by 48 runs in the 1999 World Cup , Zimbabwe have n't won against them since 2000. That tells you how big the gulf is between the two teams . Teams : Zimbabwe ( From ) : Hamilton Masakadza , Sikandar Raza , Brendan Taylor , Sean Williams , Solomon Mire , Elton Chigumbura ( c ) , Chamu Chibhabha , Regis Chakabva ( w ) , Craig Ervine , Tinashe Panyangara , Prosper Utseya , Tendai Chatara , Tawanda Mupariwa , Tafadzwa Kamungozi , Stuart Matsikenyeri South Africa ( From ) : Quinton de Kock ( w ) , Hashim Amla , Faf du Plessis , Rilee Rossouw , AB de Villiers ( c ) , David Miller , Jean-Paul Duminy , Farhaan Behardien , Wayne Parnell , Kyle Abbott , Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel , Imran Tahir , Vernon Philander , Aaron Phangiso Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
