Graphs Well , that concludes proceedings on this Super Sunday. We enjoyed bringing every bit of it to you. Looking forward to your company tomorrow as Ireland take on West Indies at Nelson. Until then , take care , goodbye ! Zaheer Khan : WELL DONE # TeamIndia ! ! Kick starting World Cup campaign with a huge win and maintaining winning record against Pakistan in World Cup Aakash Chopra : Dhoni 's captaincy was also very refreshing...attacked throughout. Well done , skipper ! Narendra Modi : Congrats Team India. Well played. We are all very proud of you . VVS Laxman : Congrats Team India.Clinical performance.Good to see the way the bowlers bowled today. Lots of positives # INDvPAK # CWC2015 Ayaz Memon : Kohli deservedly MoM , but dont forget Raina 's brilliance , Shikhar 's resilience , bowlers rising to the occasion & Dhoni 's aggressive captaincy Glenn McGrath : I stand corrected. The team batting first has won the games convincingly. It has shown to win the toss & field is a negative move ! ! # CWC15 Here are a few tweets : Ravi Shastri : " It feels fabulous. You have played some great games against Pakistan. It 's a massive contest. If you look at this format of the World Cup , it was a massive game. After today , India do n't play until next Sunday and if we had not got off to a good start , just that waiting game could kill you. So it was important to get off to a start. Hats off to the guys , they were absolutely professional and clinical with their performance with bat , ball and in the field. Take stock , be consistent and like I told you in the morning , I repeat it , if there 's one team that can take Australia out of this World Cup , it is this Indian cricket team. Today you just saw flashes , they will get better. Very good side ( South Africa ) , top three in the world. They have a great record in World Cup cricket. They 've not won a World Cup event as yet , but you look for consistency , making it to the semis or even the final at times , they are up there on a regular basis and it 's a tough game. The average age of the side is 25 and if a bloke is not prepared to enjoy at that age , he 'll get a kick up the back side and be told get out there and enjoy it with the mates , especially after a win like this against Pakistan , you must celebrate. I think the performance that impressed me the most , bat , ball and in the field , they were just a unit. In the batting department there were partnerships. If a wicket went they did n't do anything stupid or go crazy. They built another partnership , as opposed to the one-day series , which you saw a little while earlier where they lost three , four wickets. When they bowled , they did the same thing. It was a good over by Shami and it was backed up by another good one by Umesh and you 've got to work in pairs. It 's not just batting where you have partnerships , even in bowling , if you bowl well in tandem you will build the pressure. That was the best part of the game , they worked together and they worked as a cohesive unit. You can only be greedy in this ( on areas to concerned about ) , you ca n't be happy with the win. You 've got to take that bar up. If you want to be in the knockout stage , looking to try and defend this cup , you have to get a little better and there is still room for improvement. Just stay focussed , remember all the good things you did in this game and try and repeat it. Do n't go by who the opposition is , just execute your plans properly and it does n't matter if it is Australia , Pakistan , any other team. You do your job properly , you are out there with a fair chance of winning every game. " Dhoni : " It was a very good performance. It was started by the batsmen , I think we batted really well. It 's needed , when you are batting first you want to put runs on the board and give bowlers the cushioning of those extra 15-20 runs. So , I was very happy with our batting. When you are batting first , it 's not easy , especially in the first 10 overs here , it does n't come on to the bat that nicely. I think it stops , bit of variable pace initially , but it starts to get better after that. It was important that they stayed in the middle. That long stand between Virat and Shikhar was the crucial aspect and then Raina went in to capitalise along with Virat. Overall , all three of them batted really well and they accelerated at the right time. The 8-10 day break in the middle was important. Of course the start of the World Cup itself gets you going. A lot of people have come in from India. I think , before coming into the game also there were a lot of people in our lobbies. I felt most of the Australians were wondering what 's really happening. It all really helps and I felt the boys had a very good performance with both the bat and the ball. Well , I do n't control my emotions , it 's there and it 's just that I do n't want to be over expressive on the field. " Misbah : " I think they played really well. They posted a good total and bowled really well. We just lost three quick wickets in the middle. At that time we were pretty much in the game , but after that we were nowhere. I think the pitch was really good and the quality of batting they have , they played really well. Our bowlers came back very well in the last 10 overs , we pulled them really back and I think 300 was pretty much gettable if we batted 50 overs. Two , three batsmen never got in and they just got out in the first couple of balls , you ca n't say much about that. I think , now we have to just look forward. You ca n't just get into this game and not concentrating on the coming games. In this tournament , every game is important. We really have to focus on the next one and try to win it and get the momentum back and confidence back. " Kohli : " Well , it 's probably one of the biggest awards I 've had in my career right now. Just an amazing way for us to kick-off the World Cup. Very important pressure game against Pakistan and we always get a great fight from them. It 's a high-pressure game and it 's good to get that one under the belt. It 's a really big compliment ( when Rameez Raja told him that he 's the new Sachin Tendulkar to the Indian fans ) . Expectations are going to be there when you do well for your country , expectations will rise and I just look to stand up to them because I hate losing , I love winning games and I love playing for my country. I am so passionate about it and it comes naturally to me and I like the expectation and the pressure as well. To be honest , it 's very tough to focus , especially in the last couple of days there have been too many people in the hotel just getting excited for the game and it 's been hard to keep focus. That 's the skill at international level , you 've got to stay in your zone and stay in your own little space and try to work things out for yourself. I 've been trying to do that since I came to Australia and that 's been working for me. It 's been a tough one , but glad to get it through. My role in the team is to bat through and the power-hitters around me can sort of come and play with freedom , because they know one end is secure. That 's something that I am going to look to do in the World Cup and we 've discussed our roles yesterday and I am really happy that I could play mine really well. Again the way Suresh and Shikhar batted was really commendable. It was a really good batting performance indeed. Well , the support today has been magnificent , it 's something that we expect throughout the tournament. It 's been too loud for MS to catch the players ' attention at times. Thank you so much for the support guys and we 'll keep working hard for you. " Virat Kohli is the Man of the Match for his 107 India will next take on one of the favourites to win the tournament , South Africa , at Melbourne Cricket Ground on February 22nd. On the other hand , Pakistan will face the West Indies in their next match in Christchurch on February 21st . Misbah yet again turned out to be the fulcrum of Pakistan 's batting line-up , but he just did n't get enough support from the other batsmen. Akmal getting out in rather controversial circumstances also did n't help their cause. The clear difference between the two sides was that the Indian batsmen ran well between the wickets , but Pakistan mainly looked to deal in boundaries. Indian batsmen played out a total of 122 dot deliveries in their allotted 50 overs. On the other hand , by the end of the 30th over of the game itself , Pakistan had played out 108 dot deliveries . While chasing down India 's target of 301 , Pakistan lost the early wicket of Younis Khan. But Ahmed Shehzad and Haris Sohail steadied Pakistan 's innings with a well-constructed partnership of 68. Just in the nick of time though , Umesh Yadav picked up two wickets in quick succession to put India in the ascendancy. The spinners , Ravichandran Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja , then tightened the screws by bowling with good control and wickets fell at regular intervals. Credit has to go to Mohammed Shami as well for bowling with a great heart. He produced a superb bouncer that was head high to snare the wicket of Younis. India 's fielding was also on the money. The trio of Jadeja , Raina and Kohli certainly made their presence felt by taking crucial catches . Shikhar Dhawan , who has struggled for form also shone brightly with a well-measured innings of 73. Pakistan 's bowlers gave width to Dhawan and they paid the price for it. Once Kohli was dismissed for a superbly-paced innings of 107 , Suresh Raina took over , flaying the Pakistan attack all over the ground to compose a thrill-a-minute innings of 74 in a mere 56 balls. He used the depth of the crease to good effect. Among Pakistan 's bowlers , Sohail Khan turned out to be their go-to man. He bowled with good disciplines and was rewarded with a five-wicket haul. Wahab Riaz also gave a good account of himself in the slog overs. However , their fielding was n't up to the mark. In particular , Pakistan would rue Umar Akmal dropping a rather easy chance off Kohli when he was on 76 . India produced a fine all-round performance to beat arch-rivals , Pakistan , by a margin of 76 runs. India now have won all their six games against Pakistan in the history of the World Cup. In the backdrop of an electrifying atmosphere , the Indian batsmen played with pluck and determination to notch up a sizeable total of 300 for 7 in 50 overs. Virat Kohli was the star performer for India , as he essayed a sparkling ton. Kohli was a symbol of composure at the crease. He waited for the loose ball on offer and took advantage of it by playing sumptuous shots. For Pakistan , Misbah-ul-Haq played a fine knock , but it was n't enough to lift the sagging morale of the team and take them to victory. They were eventually bowled out for 224 . The Indian fans are absolutely ecstatic in the stands. Meanwhile , the players shake hands and the Men in Blue have registered a comprehensive win. The Pakistani players and support staff walk onto the field to congratulate India . 46.6 Mohit Sharma to Sohail Khan , out Caught by U Yadav ! ! That 's in the airrrr and taken. It 's 6-0 for India against Pakistan in World Cups. This is their first major win on this tour. Slower delivery outside off stump , Sohail tries to play a gallery hit , mistimes it high in the air , long-on runs forward and takes a good catch. Sohail Khan c U Yadav b Mohit Sharma 7 ( 10 ) [ 4s-1 ] Mohit Sharma to Sohail Khan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 46.5 Mohit Sharma to Irfan , 1 run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Irfan pushes it to mid-on 46.4 Mohit Sharma to Irfan , no run , shortish and well outside off stump , Irfan lets it go The Indian fans are having a ball out there . 46.3 Mohit Sharma to Irfan , no run , full and outside off stump , driven to cover 46.2 Mohit Sharma to Sohail Khan , 1 run , yorker on the stumps , dug out to long-on 46.1 Mohit Sharma to Sohail Khan , 2 runs , slower delivery on the leg stump , glanced past the man at short fine leg for a couple Mohit Sharma [ 8.0-0-31-1 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Shami to Irfan , no run , slower ball bouncer outside off stump , Irfan shoulders arms 45.5 Shami to Irfan , no run , Irfan hardly moves while trying to sway away from the line of this bumper. It went so close to him Mohammad Irfan , right handed bat , comes to the crease 45.4 Shami to Misbah , out Caught by Rahane ! ! Easy catch at mid-on and that 's the end of a fighting innings from Misbah. If only he had more warriors backing him , Misbah would have taken Pakistan closer. Shami bangs this short again , Misbah opens up and almost tries to play a tennis-smash , he mistimes it completely and Rahane takes a few steps to his right to complete the catch. The ball was rising on him and he could n't control the shot. Misbah c Rahane b Shami 76 ( 84 ) [ 4s-9 6s-1 ] Shami to Misbah , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 45.3 Shami to Misbah , no run , backs away and looks to drive , but the ball hits the bottom of the bat 45.2 Shami to Misbah , no run , he 's mistimed that , deep square leg rushes in but it falls well short of him. Short ball from Shami , Misbah goes for the pull but does n't get the connection right. Misbah denies the run 45.1 Shami to Misbah , no run , good bumper coming into the right-hander with the angle , Misbah walks across and lets it go Mohammed Shami [ 8.0-0-35-3 ] is back into the attack Shami goes round the wicket . 44.6 U Yadav to Sohail Khan , no run , ends the over with another bouncer , Sohail sits under it again 44.5 U Yadav to Sohail Khan , no run , short ball from Yadav , Sohail ducks under it 44.5 U Yadav to Sohail Khan , wide , sprays this down the leg-side , Sohail tries to help it on its way but it was way away from him 44.4 U Yadav to Sohail Khan , FOUR , good shot ! Short and just outside off stump , Sohail rocks onto the back foot and pulls well , he hits it to the left of the man at mid-wicket and it races away 44.3 U Yadav to Sohail Khan , no run , bumper around the leg stump , Sohail ducks under it 44.2 U Yadav to Sohail Khan , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Sohail turns it into the on-side 44.1 U Yadav to Sohail Khan , no run , short delivery on the leg stump , Sohail ducks under it Umesh Yadav [ 9.0-0-45-2 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , no run , full outside off stump , Misbah drills it to cover 43.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , FOUR , low full toss darted in , Misbah gets down on one knee and sweeps it fine to the left of the man at short fine leg. That 's a hat-trick of fours for Misbah now 43.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , FOUR , the sweep this time and it 's four more. Flighted delivery outside off stump from Jadeja , Misbah fetches the sweep and times it very well. The ball runs away through backward square leg 43.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , FOUR , full and in the slot , Misbah backs away and slogs it flat to the deep mid-wicket fence 43.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , no run , Misbah drives it to long-on but does n't take the run 43.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , no run , flatter delivery outside off stump , Misbah backs away and cuts , but picks out the fielder Ravindra Jadeja [ 9.0-0-44-1 ] is back into the attack Meanwhile , looks like Kohli and Sohail exchanged some words. Misbah is not a happy man , he angrily waves at Sohail to go and take position at the non-striker 's end . 42.6 Mohit Sharma to Sohail Khan , no run , not the best of techniques as he exposes all stumps while defending this good length delivery Sohail Khan , right handed bat , comes to the crease 42.5 Mohit Sharma to Yasir Shah , out Caught by U Yadav ! ! Now that 's a dolly. Full and in the slot , Yasir Shah backed himself to clear the infield , took his front leg out of the way and swung hard at it , but hit it flat and found the man at mid-on , who just took a few steps back to complete the catch. That ends a stubborn 49-run stand. So Mohit Sharma too gets his name into the wickets column. Yasir Shah c U Yadav b Mohit Sharma 13 ( 23 ) [ 4s-1 ] Mohit Sharma to Yasir Shah , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 42.4 Mohit Sharma to Yasir Shah , 2 runs , dropped , but a very tough chance. 10/10 for the effort though ! Short delivery outside off stump , Yasir pulls , but the ball goes off the outside half of the bat , deep square leg runs forward , puts in the dive , gets both hands to it , but could n't hold on 42.3 Mohit Sharma to Misbah , 1 run , Misbah walks right across the off stump and slogs the low full toss on the bounce to deep mid-wicket 42.2 Mohit Sharma to Misbah , no run , short ball this time , Misbah lets it go 42.1 Mohit Sharma to Misbah , no run , slower ball outside off stump , Misbah waits and guides it to backward point. He tried to pierce the gap between backward point and short third man , but he found the fielder Mohit Sharma [ 7.0-0-28-0 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Ashwin to Yasir Shah , no run , quicker one from Ashwin , the line is well outside off , slapped straight to the fielder at extra cover 41.5 Ashwin to Yasir Shah , no run , appeal for LBW , but the impact was well outside off and the height might have been an issue as well , Shah was down on his knees on the sweep and missed 41.4 Ashwin to Yasir Shah , no run , pushed through by Ashwin , Yasir Shah gets well forward and turns it towards leg slip 41.3 Ashwin to Yasir Shah , no run , slower and just outside off , nudged away towards the on-side 41.2 Ashwin to Yasir Shah , FOUR , that 's crunched by Yasir , this was flighted and well outside off , Yasir gets down on his knees and swipes it in front of square on the on-side,beats the man in the deep 41.1 Ashwin to Yasir Shah , no run , tossed up and well outside off , Yasir prods forward in defence Ravichandran Ashwin [ 7.0-3-37-1 ] is back into the attack 40.6 U Yadav to Misbah , no run , Yadav goes full and outside off as Misbah backed away , he ca n't reach despite throwing his bat at the ball 40.5 U Yadav to Misbah , no run , short and on the stumps , Misbah shuffles across and clips it towards mid-wicket 40.4 U Yadav to Yasir Shah , 1 run , good short ball from Yadav , on the stumps , Yasir Shah took his eyes off as he went for the pull , manages a single towards long leg 40.3 U Yadav to Yasir Shah , no run , back of a length and on the stumps , Yasir swivels across and helps it to the left of Raina at square leg , he set-off and is sent back by Misbah as Raina dived and stopped. The fielder senses an opportunity at the bowler 's end , Misbah was just outside his crease , the throw comes in but he was in by that time 40.3 U Yadav to Yasir Shah , wide , wayward stuff from Yadav , lost his footing at the point of impact and sends this one well down leg-side , wide called 40.2 U Yadav to Yasir Shah , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Yasir shuffles across and defends it back towards the bowler 40.1 U Yadav to Yasir Shah , no run , short and on the stumps , Yasir Shah was looking to help it on its way , misses and is struck on his stomach , he winces in pain and walks away from the batting arena 39.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , no run , that nearly castled Misbah , he went for the slog sweep now , misses and the ball just about goes past the off-stump , Jadeja ca n't believe his luck , so does Dhoni 39.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Yasir Shah , 1 run , slower and just outside off , worked in front of cover for a single 39.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Yasir Shah , no run , slower and spinning across the right-hander , he gets behind the line and defends it 39.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , 1 run , pushed through and just outside off , punched down towards long-off for a single 39.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , FOUR , Misbah nails the reverse sweep , Raina was running across as he anticipated the shot , but Misbah rolls his wrists and has control over the shot , beats backward point and races away to the fence 39.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Misbah backs away and pushes it towards cover 38.6 U Yadav to Misbah , 1 run , Yadav digs another one short and on the stumps , Misbah swivels across and pulls it behind square on the on-side for a single 38.5 U Yadav to Yasir Shah , 1 run , short and wide from Yadav , chopped away towards third man for a single 38.4 U Yadav to Yasir Shah , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Yasir rides with the bounce and defends it A slip is in for Yasir Shah 38.3 U Yadav to Misbah , 1 run , short of a length and well outside off , punched away past cover for a single 38.2 U Yadav to Misbah , no run , another lifter from Yadav , Misbah was shuffling across in the crease , has to adjust and blocks it back towards the bowler 38.1 U Yadav to Misbah , no run , short of a length and just outside off , rears onto the batsman , he was coming down the track , manages to get on top of the bounce and defends it towards the off-side 38.1 U Yadav to Misbah , wide , the slower ball from Yadav , he went short and wide as Misbah backed away , a bit too wide though , called by the umpire Umesh Yadav [ 7.0-0-39-2 ] is back into the attack Umesh Yadav is back. Can he get a wicket or two and seal this game ? 37.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Yasir Shah , no run , this one is drifted across the right-hander , he looks to drive and gets a thick edge towards backward point 37.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Yasir Shah , no run , pushed through by RJ , Yasir shuffles across and defends it 37.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Yasir Shah , 2 runs , slower and wider from Jadeja , Shah waits on it , opens the face of the bat and runs it past the lone slip for a couple of runs 37.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , 1 run , this one is given more air , driven down towards long-on for a single 37.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , no run , slower and just outside off , Misbah gets well forward and blocks 37.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , no run , pushed through on off , Misbah prods forward and defends it towards cover Ravindra Jadeja [ 7.0-0-35-1 ] is back into the attack 44/2 in the batting PP. Pakistan would have been happy if there was n't 2 against the wickets column 36.6 Shami to Misbah , 1 run , full and wide from Shami , driven to deep cover for a single 36.5 Shami to Misbah , no run , teasing bowling from Shami , goes fuller and wider outside off , Misbah pushes his bat at that and misses , does n't carry through to the keeper 36.4 Shami to Misbah , FOUR , excellent batting from Misbah , it was a full toss all-right , but Misbah shuffles across his stumps and flicks it past mid-wicket for a boundary 36.3 Shami to Misbah , 2 runs , 39th ODI fifty for Misbah , short and well outside off , the third man was inside the ring , Misbah waits on it and dabs it past that fielder. Jadeja gives chase and keeps them down to a brace 36.2 Shami to Misbah , FOUR , that 's struck well from Misbah , he is still standing tall in this run-chase , pitched up and holding its line outside off , Misbah gets well forward and clubs it over mid-off for a boundary 36.1 Shami to Yasir Shah , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on off , driven in front of mid-on for a quick single 35.6 Ashwin to Misbah , FOUR , more runs for Misbah , expensive over from Ashwin , drops one short and wide outside off , Misbah makes room and cracks it to the left of point. After a slow start , Misbah has got going , but is it too late ? 35.5 Ashwin to Yasir Shah , 1 run , this one is given more air , worked square past point for a single 35.4 Ashwin to Misbah , 1 run , the straighter one from Ashwin , worked away behind square on the on-side for a single 35.3 Ashwin to Misbah , 2 runs , Ashwin drops one flatter and wider outside off , Misbah makes room and cuts it square behind point for a brace 35.3 Ashwin to Misbah , wide , Ashwin slides one across Misbah , he gets inside the line and lets it go , wide called 35.2 Ashwin to Misbah , no run , flatter and on Misbah 's pads , turns towards the on-side , the ball rolls away towards square leg 35.1 Ashwin to Misbah , SIX , that 's massive ! This was tossed up and well outside off , Misbah goes down on his knees and slog sweeps it high and over deep mid-wicket for a maximum. Pakistan need many more of such blows Ravichandran Ashwin [ 6.0-3-22-1 ] is back into the attack 34.6 Shami to Yasir Shah , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Yasir Shah presses forward , presents the full face of the bat and drives it towards mid-on 34.5 Shami to Yasir Shah , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Yasir Shah is done in by sheer pace , he was looking to work it towards the on-side , gets a soft leading edge towards the bowler Yasir Shah , right handed bat , comes to the crease 34.4 Shami to Riaz , out Caught by Dhoni ! ! That 's another one gone. Pakistan are losing their way completely in the batting PP. This was short and shapes away slightly , Riaz went for the cut , gets a thin nick and to the right of the keeper. Dhoni dives across to his right and holds onto the low catch. Is the sixth WC win on the way for India ? Riaz c Dhoni b Shami 4 ( 2 ) [ 4s-1 ] Shami to Riaz , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 34.3 Shami to Riaz , FOUR , that 's a poor ball from Shami , slips one full and on Riaz 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away past the keeper and into the fence. Actually , it went off the bat 34.2 Shami to Misbah , 1 run , full and just outside off , Misbah makes room and drills it to deep cover for a single Wahab Riaz , right handed bat , comes to the crease 34.1 Shami to Afridi , out Caught by Kohli ! ! Kohli has probably won this match for India. But is it a no-ball for height ? looks OK for me , I think Afridi is OUT. Remember the Afridi dismissal at Mohali in the 2011 WC ? This is an exact carbon copy of that. A high full toss from Shami , Afridi was looking to slug it across towards mid-wicket , does n't get hold of the shot , the ball goes off the thickish outside edge , it stayed in the air forever. Kohli runs across from extra cover , he seemed to have overrun , keeps his eyes on the ball and takes it over his shoulder. The ball nearly popped out , but he managed to hold firm. Afridi c Kohli b Shami 22 ( 22 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] Shami to Afridi , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 33.6 U Yadav to Misbah , no run , very well bowled by Yadav , spotted that Misbah was looking to go across the line , pushes his length up further , that cramps Misbah for room , he only manages to defend it back towards the bowler 33.5 U Yadav to Afridi , 1 run , short of a length and well outside off , Afridi drills it to the left of extra cover. Rohit ca n't stop the ball cleanly and allows a single 33.4 U Yadav to Misbah , 1 run , Yadav goes short and just outside off as Misbah was shaping up for another big heave , worked away square past cover for a single 33.3 U Yadav to Misbah , FOUR , nicely played by Misbah , poor ball from Yadav , full toss and on Misbah 's pads , whipped away behind square on the on-side for a boundary 33.2 U Yadav to Misbah , no run , cross seam delivery from Yadav , keeps it very full and just outside off , Misbah digs it out towards mid-off 33.1 U Yadav to Misbah , FOUR , Misbah gets one away finally , moves away from the stumps and drills a full ball past cover-point , no need to run for those Umesh Yadav [ 6.0-0-29-2 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now. India have been all-over Pakistan like a rash. Shehzad consumed a large number of dot balls before perishing , Maqsood and Umar Akmal fell for ducks. It 's all up to Misbah and Afridi if Pakistan are to pull off an unlikely victory . 32.6 Shami to Misbah , 1 run , no timing at all from Misbah , makes room to a full ball , goes hard on the slog and gets a thick inside edge towards mid-on , just 2 runs off the over 32.5 Shami to Misbah , no run , Misbah is getting frustrated here , this is nothing more than a cross batted ugly hoick across the line , does n't get hold of the shot and the ball rolls away towards mid-on 32.4 Shami to Misbah , no run , Shami keeps it full and on the stumps as Misbah backed away , creamed straight to the fielder at cover , had he beaten him , it was a certain boundary 32.3 Shami to Misbah , no run , the slower bouncer from Shami , did n't climb as much as Misbah expected , he ends up tapping it towards backward point 32.2 Shami to Misbah , no run , the bumper from Shami , Misbah drops his wrists and ducks underneath it 32.1 Shami to Afridi , leg byes , 1 run , yorker length delivery and on Afridi 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away towards square leg as the batsmen sneak in a leg-bye Mohammed Shami [ 5.0-0-17-1 ] is back into the attack Pakistan have opted for the batting PP. They need around 9 RPO at the moment. 9.11 to be exact. Shami is back. . 31.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , no run , Jadeja tosses this one wider outside off , Misbah makes use of his reach and pushes it towards cover 31.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , no run , tossed up and drifting away from outside off , Misbah leans forward and defends it towards backward point 31.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Afridi , 1 run , Jadeja goes full and wide outside off as Afridi went for the sweep , just a single behind square on the on-side for a single 31.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Afridi , no run , tossed up and on off , driven back towards the bowler 31.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , 1 run , Jadeja drops one short and wide outside off , punched away square on the off-side for a single A slip is in for Misbah 31.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Afridi , 1 run , Jadeja drags his first ball short , pulled away without any timing towards deep mid-wicket Ravindra Jadeja [ 6.0-0-32-1 ] is back into the attack Dhoni and Rohit have a conversation. Looks like there 's another bowling change. Jadeja is back. . 30.6 Mohit Sharma to Misbah , no run , another slower ball from Mohit , he rolled his fingers across the seam , Misbah gets well forward and pushes it towards cover 30.5 Mohit Sharma to Afridi , 1 run , too short from Mohit , he banged this one half-way down the track , pulled away behind square. Shami gets across quickly and keeps them down to a single 30.4 Mohit Sharma to Afridi , no run , the slower ball from Mohit , Afridi has to wait on the pull , does n't get hold of the shot and ends up pushing it towards square leg 30.3 Mohit Sharma to Misbah , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , Misbah was n't in any position on the pull , gets a bottom edge towards mid-wicket for a single 30.2 Mohit Sharma to Misbah , no run , tad fuller and in that channel outside off , Misbah gets a stride forward and defends it towards short cover 30.1 Mohit Sharma to Misbah , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Misbah gets on top of the bounce and dabs it straight to backward point Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the last 10 overs : During the middle part of the game , Pakistan slipped further as they lost the wickets of Ahmed Shehzad , Sohaib Maqsood and Umar Akmal. Shehzad played a powerful cut shot , but could n't keep it down and was caught by Ravindra Jadeja at backward point. In fact , Jadeja almost dropped the catch before taking it on the second attempt. Sohaib soon followed Shehzad back to the pavilion by pushing hard at the ball and was smartly caught by Suresh Raina. India 's fielding has certainly been on the money. Credit has to go to Umesh Yadav too for making a fine comeback by picking up two wickets . To make it worse for Pakistan , Akmal was rather controversially given out caught behind off Jadeja 's bowling. MS Dhoni appealed for a caught behind decision , but the on-field umpire adjudged it as not out. However , Dhoni went up for the review and despite inconclusive evidence on the snickometer , the decision was overturned. Having lost three wickets in quick succession , Pakistan have a daunting task ahead of them to chase down the target . 29.6 Ashwin to Afridi , no run , Ashwin slows down this one , Afridi watches it all along and blocks with an open face 29.5 Ashwin to Afridi , FOUR , Afridi will play his shots , this was pushed through quicker by Ashwin , Afridi gets down on his knees , rolls his wrists and sweeps it powerfully past square leg for a boundary 29.4 Ashwin to Misbah , 1 run , pushed through and on Misbah 's pads , clipped backward of square on the on-side for a single 29.3 Ashwin to Misbah , 2 runs , spin for Ashwin , but it ends up drifting down leg-side , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single 29.2 Ashwin to Misbah , no run , flighted and on the off-stump line , Misbah gets his bat in front of the pads as he blocks 29.1 Ashwin to Afridi , 1 run , tossed up and drifting into Afridi , he covers for the spin and nudges it behind square on the on-side for a single 28.6 Mohit Sharma to Misbah , 2 runs , nicely played by Misbah , back of a length and in that channel outside off , he waits on it and dabs it square behind point for a couple of easy runs 28.5 Mohit Sharma to Afridi , 1 run , Mohit slips in the slower ball , he rolled his fingers around it , nudged in front of cover-point for a single 28.4 Mohit Sharma to Misbah , 1 run , Mohit keeps it full and on off , worked past square leg for an easy single 28.3 Mohit Sharma to Afridi , 1 run , nicely bowled by Mohit , very full and on the stumps , worked away in front of square on the on-side for a single Third man comes in , cover goes back to the ropes 28.2 Mohit Sharma to Afridi , no run , the loopy bouncer from Mohit , the line was just outside off , Afridi was way too early on the pull and missed 28.1 Mohit Sharma to Afridi , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Afridi gets behind the line and defends it towards backward point Mohit Sharma [ 5.0-0-21-0 ] is back into the attack Another bowling change. Mohit replaces Jadeja 27.6 Ashwin to Misbah , no run , 3rd maiden over from Ashwin , slightly shorter and just outside off , Misbah goes back and works it back towards the bowler 27.5 Ashwin to Misbah , no run , Ashwin tosses one wider outside off , Misbah presses forward and defends it towards the on-side 27.4 Ashwin to Misbah , no run , Ashwin drifts one on the off-stump line , Misbah comes down the track and is hit on the pads , the impact was well outside off 27.3 Ashwin to Misbah , no run , slower and wider outside off , Misbah makes room and pushes it towards the off-side 27.2 Ashwin to Misbah , no run , the off-break from Ashwin , breaks back into Misbah , punched towards mid-wicket A leg slip is in place 27.1 Ashwin to Misbah , no run , tossed up and just outside off , Misbah prods across and turns it towards the on-side Ravichandran Ashwin [ 4.0-2-14-1 ] is back into the attack 26.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , 1 run , tossed up and well outside off , driven down towards long-off for a single 26.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Afridi , 1 run , almost a catch , Kohli came rushing in from sweeper cover , but the ball dropped well in front of him , Afridi was looking to go inside out over extra cover , ended up slicing it over cover 26.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Afridi , SIX , that 's the Afridi one has got used to , Jadeja dragged this length ball , ends up very short , pulled away high and over deep mid-wicket for a maximum 26.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , 1 run , slower and just outside off , Misbah gets a good stride forward and drives it towards long-off for a single 26.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , no run , flighted and just outside off , Misbah prods forward and blocks 26.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Afridi , 1 run , Jadeja drops one short and wide outside off , Afridi makes room and cuts it square on the off-side for a single Gee ! These India-Pakistan World Cup games really test the DRS , do n't they ? 25.6 U Yadav to Afridi , 1 run , on the off stump , flicked to mid-wicket 25.5 U Yadav to Misbah , 1 run , shortish and on the off stump , Misbah tucks it to forward short leg 25.4 U Yadav to Afridi , 1 run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Afridi turns it to mid-wicket 25.3 U Yadav to Afridi , no run , short delivery on the off stump , Afridi sits under it. In fact the ball kissed Afridi 's helmet en route to Dhoni 25.2 U Yadav to Misbah , 1 run , shortish and outside off stump , Misbah guides it uppishly to third man 25.1 U Yadav to Misbah , no run , shortish delivery outside off stump , Misbah hops and defends 24.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , 1 run , driven away to long-off 24.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Afridi , 1 run , flighted delivery outside off stump , driven to sweeper cover Shahid Afridi , right handed bat , comes to the crease 24.4 Ravindra Jadeja to U Akmal , out Caught by Dhoni ! ! Drama ! Flighted delivery just outside off stump , it spins away from the batsman , Akmal was on the front foot to defend , the ball takes a thin edge and Dhoni takes the catch. He also whips the bails off in a flash before appealing hard for the caught behind. He reviewed immediately as he was so confident. The replay suggested that there was a slight deviation. There was no big wave on the snicko though , just a tiny spike. But the third umpire saw enough evidence to overturn the on-field call. Dhoni and India are pumped. U Akmal c Dhoni b Ravindra Jadeja 0 ( 4 ) Ravindra Jadeja to U Akmal , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Dhoni has reviewed straightaway for a caught behind shout. He was very confident. They check the no-ball and Jadeja is fine on that count. Is there a deviation ? Ca n't really say. Snicko does n't move much. I mean there is no big wave on it. This is a tough call. To the naked eye , there seemed to be an edge. Not sure if there was enough evidence. Oh he 's given him OUT ! That 's a brave call and Pakistan are five down now . 24.3 Ravindra Jadeja to U Akmal , no run , flighted delivery from Jadeja , Akmal defends 24.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , 1 run , flatter delivery on the leg stump , Misbah flicks it to mid-wicket 24.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , pushed to cover off the front foot 23.6 U Yadav to U Akmal , no run , length ball outside off stump , Akmal shoulders arms 23.5 U Yadav to U Akmal , no run , good length delivery just outside off stump , Akmal defends from the crease Umar Akmal , right handed bat , comes to the crease 23.4 U Yadav to Maqsood , out Caught by Raina ! ! Edged and that man at fly slip has been precisely placed by Dhoni. Raina takes a good catch high to his right and Umesh has got two in the over. Pakistan have lost the plot. Nothing but a short of length delivery outside off stump , nothing really great about the ball , Maqsood chases away from the body , the ball takes a thick edge and flies. Raina moves his hands to his right and takes a good catch above his shoulder. Jadeja runs to Raina and gives him a tight hug. They know that India are right on top here. Maqsood c Raina b U Yadav 0 ( 2 ) U Yadav to Maqsood , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 23.3 U Yadav to Maqsood , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Maqsood pushes it into the off-side Sohaib Maqsood , right handed bat , comes to the crease 23.2 U Yadav to Ahmed Shehzad , out Caught by Ravindra Jadeja ! ! In the airrrrr and oh has he dropped it ? No , he 's held onto the rebound. Short and wide outside off stump , Shehzad cuts very hard , does n't get the placement right though. It goes low and to the left of backward point. Jadeja goes at it with both hands. The ball pops out initially but he manages to catch it on the second attempt. Shehzad has thrown away a great opportunity to take his team past the line. He was well set and Pakistan are under serious pressure now. Umesh gets his reward for some tight bowling in this spell. Ahmed Shehzad c Ravindra Jadeja b U Yadav 47 ( 73 ) [ 4s-5 ] U Yadav to Ahmed Shehzad , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 23.1 U Yadav to Misbah , 1 run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Misbah tucks it through square leg 22.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , 1 run , darted in on the leg stump , pushed down to long-on 22.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , no run , width on offer and Misbah has missed out. He 's cut this straight to point 22.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , no run , full and outside off stump , driven to the left of the bowler , who makes a good stop 22.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , no run , Misbah drives well off the front foot , but picks out cover , who dives to his left to stop the ball 22.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , spinning away outside off stump , punched off the back foot to sweeper cover 22.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , 1 run , round the wicket , flighted delivery outside off stump , Misbah drives it to sweeper cover Slight delay as the physio attends to Shehzad. Not sure why though ! 21.6 U Yadav to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Shehzad steps out and drives , but Umesh gets his hand in the followthrough and stops the ball. A good tight over from Umesh , just one run in it 21.5 U Yadav to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , beaten ! Shortish and outside off stump , Shehzad slashes hard at it and misses. Is he feeling the pressure ? 21.4 U Yadav to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , another mix-up and this time Shehzad has to rush back. Misbah has his hands across suggesting where is the run ? Shehzad flicked this straight to mid-wicket , never a run in it , thankfully Misbah sent him back very early 21.3 U Yadav to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , good length delivery just outside off stump , Shehzad defends off the back foot 21.2 U Yadav to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , yes-no but Misbah is safe ! Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Shehzad defends it towards cover , Misbah takes off for a run , but Shehzad says no , the fielder has a shy at the bowler 's end , but Misbah was well home 21.1 U Yadav to Misbah , 1 run , starts his new spell with a fuller length delivery on the off stump , Misbah flicks it along the ground to deep mid-wicket Umesh Yadav [ 3.0-0-23-0 ] is back into the attack 20.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , flatter delivery outside off stump , Shehzad guides it down to short third man , who dives to his left and makes a half-stop 20.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , round-armish flighted delivery outside off stump , Shehzad drives it along the ground to deep extra-cover and races back for two , before Umesh 's throw reached Dhoni 20.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flatter delivery outside off stump , Shehzad punches it to extra-cover 20.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tossed up outside off stump , Shehzad drives and picks out short cover 20.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flatter delivery outside off stump , goes deep in the crease and punches it to point 20.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Misbah , 1 run , tossed up outside off stump , Misbah drives it along the ground to long-off Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the last 10 overs : Mohit Sharma backed up Mohammed Shami 's efforts by bowling a few tight overs. Mohit kept it simple by bowling to the field set by MS Dhoni. Occasionally , Ravichandran Ashwin also troubled the batsmen with his arm ball. However , both Ahmed Shehzad and Haris Sohail did n't lose the plot , as they looked to milk India 's bowling by taking quick singles and waited for the loose ball to unleash the big shot. Shehzad showed his class by picking the slower delivery from Mohit in the 15th over of the innings to loft the seamer over long-on for a fine boundary . Dhoni then , used the spinners to take the pace off the ball and the strategy worked , as Sohail was caught by Suresh Raina at first slip off the bowling of Ashwin. On a flat deck , spinners will play a key role for India . 19.6 Ashwin to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , spinning back into the right-hander , Shehzad turns it into the on-side 19.5 Ashwin to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , great use of the feet and he 's attacked Ashwin , who has been bowling well. Flighted delivery outside off stump , Shehzad steps out , gets to the pitch of the ball and easily lofts it over mid-off 19.4 Ashwin to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , short and wide outside off stump , Shehzad cuts well as he makes room and the fielder at point had no chance. That was a sweetly timed hit from the right-hander 19.3 Ashwin to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flatter ball from Ashwin , Shehzad pushes it from the crease 19.2 Ashwin to Misbah , 1 run , punched down to long-on 19.1 Ashwin to Misbah , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Misbah misses the sweep and is hit on the pad but the impact was well outside off stump 18.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , again Jadeja goes short and outside off stump , Shehzad cuts it towards deep point , Umesh Yadav tidies up and fires a throw back to Dhoni , but it was close to the stumps. Dhoni had to move to his left to collect the ball and it gave Shehzad that extra second to make his ground. Dhoni did really well to flick it back onto the stumps. A better throw would have been curtains for Shehzad . A run-out check has been sent upstairs. Shehzad is the man in question. It was a risky second run , looks like Shehzad is fine. Oh ! Has the bat bounced ? That 's a very tight call. Maybe , the benefit of doubt should go to the batsman and it does. NOT OUT flashes on the big screen . 18.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Shehzad looks to drive but the ball goes off the inside edge and back to the bowler 18.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , steps out and looks to go big , but Jadeja fires it in and keeps him calm 18.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , shortish outside off stump , cut past the man at backward point for a couple 18.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , spinning away outside off stump , Shehzad pushes it into the off-side again 18.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Shehzad drives it into the off-side Misbah-ul-Haq , right handed bat , comes to the crease 17.6 Ashwin to Sohail , out Caught by Raina ! ! Edged and that 's an easy catch at first slip. Flatter delivery outside off stump , the ball grips and turns away , Sohail was opened up by the spin away from him , he was looking to push off the back foot , but the ball takes a thick edge and goes straight into the hands of Raina , who does n't drop those. Ashwin deserved that figures , for he has given nothing away. A brilliant wicket-maiden from Ash. His figures so far read , 3-2-5-1. Sohail c Raina b Ashwin 36 ( 48 ) [ 4s-3 ] Ashwin to Sohail , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 17.5 Ashwin to Sohail , no run , flatter delivery outside off stump , punched with an angled bat to point 17.4 Ashwin to Sohail , no run , slower through the air this time , Sohail pushes it watchfully towards point 17.3 Ashwin to Sohail , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Sohail defends from the crease 17.2 Ashwin to Sohail , no run , spinning away outside off stump , Sohail defends well off the front foot 17.1 Ashwin to Sohail , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Sohail defends 16.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Sohail , 3 runs , good use of the crease by Sohail and a good bit of team work between Dhawan and Shami saves India one run. Shortish from Jadeja , Sohail punches it to the right of extra-cover , Dhawan chases the ball and flicks it just inside the rope with a dive , Shami then picks up the ball and fires it back to the keeper 16.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , this time he punches it in the gap and sends it to sweeper cover 16.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flatter in trajectory , punched to short cover 16.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Sohail , 1 run , on the off stump again , punched down to long-on 16.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , tossed up well outside off stump , driven along the ground to long-off 16.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Sohail , 1 run , flighted delivery on the off stump , punched down to long-on Ravindra Jadeja , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack Drinks are on the field now. This partnership keeps Pakistan in the hunt. They lost the wicket of Younis Khan very early , but Shehzad and Sohail have done well since then to add 61 runs. They were going well , but India pulled things back with a few tight overs. The Indians have a few bananas in the break to recharge themselves . 15.6 Ashwin to Sohail , 1 run , spinning away outside off stump , Sohail pushes it to long-off 15.5 Ashwin to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , spinning back into the right-hander , Shehzad glances it fine past the man at leg gully. It was in the air for a while , it was wide of the fielder 15.4 Ashwin to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short and wide outside off stump , bad ball but Shehzad has cut this straight to point Leg gully in now . 15.3 Ashwin to Sohail , 1 run , arm-ball on the leg stump , Sohail defends and gets a thick inside edge towards square leg , Ahmed Shehzad calls , Sohail responds , Dhoni rushes to his right and has a shy at the bowler 's end but Sohail was well home 15.2 Ashwin to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , flighted delivery on the off stump , Shehzad gets down on one knee and sweeps it through backward square leg 15.1 Ashwin to Sohail , 1 run , round the wicket to the left-hander , flatter delivery on the leg stump , Sohail flicks it to deep square leg Ashwin has a slip now . 14.6 Mohit Sharma to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , that 's in the air , not timed all that well , but it 's good enough to clear mid-off again. Full and outside off stump , Shehzad swings hard again , the ball hits the outside half of the bat and plugs in the deep. Good over for Pakistan , nine runs coming off it 14.5 Mohit Sharma to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , he 's hit this alright and with long-off inside the ring , it 's a safe shot ! Slower ball right in the slot , Shehzad waits for the ball as he picks it early and lifts it over the infield 14.4 Mohit Sharma to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Shehzad clears his front leg to go big , but Mohit keeps him calm with a tight length ball around the off stump 14.3 Mohit Sharma to Sohail , 1 run , good length outside off stump , Sohail opens the face of the bat and guides it to the right of backward point. That brings up the fifty partnership as well 14.2 Mohit Sharma to Sohail , no run , full and outside off stump , pushed off the front foot to mid-off 14.1 Mohit Sharma to Sohail , 2 runs , short of length delivery down the leg-side , Sohail flicks it along the ground to long leg 13.6 Ashwin to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flicked straight to square leg and that 's the first maiden over of the match 13.5 Ashwin to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , oh he bowls a seam-up ball , it swings away as well , Shehzad defends and gets a thickish outside edge that rolls into the off-side 13.4 Ashwin to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , he tosses one up and grips on the surface. Shehzad makes the late adjustment and tucks it into the on-side 13.3 Ashwin to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , 89.9kph flatter ball from Ash , punched off the back foot towards the bowler , who fumbles the ball 13.2 Ashwin to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , not much of a flight on this one either , blocked to short mid-wicket 13.1 Ashwin to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flatter delivery on the leg stump , Shehzad knocks it into the on-side Ravichandran Ashwin , right-arm off break , comes into the attack No slip in place . 12.6 Mohit Sharma to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , slower ball tapped softly to mid-on and Shehzad completes a quick single as well. The fact that there was no pace on the ball helped the batsman on that occasion as Ashwin had to rush in to grab the ball 12.5 Mohit Sharma to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , good length delivery on the leg stump , Shehzad defends it to mid-on 12.4 Mohit Sharma to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , gives the charge to the bowler but Mohit yorks him and almost knocks the leg stump out. Shehzad tries to dig it out but the ball sneaks under the bat. Good comeback from the bowler after being thrashed for a boundary 12.3 Mohit Sharma to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , slower ball , Shehzad was foxed a bit , he checks his push , it goes uppishly to mid-off , more importantly well wide of short cover 12.2 Mohit Sharma to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , cracking shot , the bat made a sweet sound as it made contact with the ball. An authoritative shot as well. Mohit bangs it short on seeing the batsman advance , but gets into a great position to pull and nails it to perfection as he clears the infield at mid-wicket 12.1 Mohit Sharma to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , punched straight to short cover 11.6 Raina to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , very full and outside off stump , Shehzad drills it along the ground to long-off 11.5 Raina to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flatter ball from Raina , defended back to the bowler 11.4 Raina to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , again goes deep in the crease and punches it to the left of cover this time 11.3 Raina to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , Shehzad goes leg-side and punches this flatter ball to the right of the man at cover and that brings the fifty up for Pakistan 11.2 Raina to Sohail , 1 run , tossed up outside off stump , Sohail drives it along the ground to long-off Raina operates from round the wicket to the left-hander . 11.1 Raina to Sohail , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Sohail pushes it to short over Suresh Raina , right-arm off break , comes into the attack India have bowled 20 dot balls in the last 4 overs . 10.6 Mohit Sharma to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , bouncer on the off stump , Shehzad ducks under it , looks at the square leg umpire for a wide , but does n't get it 10.5 Mohit Sharma to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , good length delivery just outside off stump , Shehzad defends Misbah seems a relaxed man with his pads on in the dug-out . 10.4 Mohit Sharma to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of length outside off stump , punched off the back foot to mid-off 10.3 Mohit Sharma to Sohail , 1 run , full and on the off stump , Sohail flicks it along the ground to deep mid-wicket 10.2 Mohit Sharma to Sohail , no run , no room for the batsman to work with , Sohail softly defends it towards point 10.1 Mohit Sharma to Sohail , no run , punched nicely off the back foot , straight to extra-cover though A good couple of overs for India. Just two runs conceded and 10 dot balls in it . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the first 10 overs : While chasing down an imposing target of 301 , Pakistan made a smart recovery after losing the early wicket of Younis Khan. For India , Mohammed Shami bowled a fine spell upfront to keep the opposition batsmen in check. Shami was duly rewarded for his unremitting accuracy with the wicket of Younis Khan. He surprised Younis with a well-directed bouncer to make the crucial breakthrough. Younis paid the price for getting into two minds of whether to pull or duck . However , Umesh Yadav struggled for consistency and on an easy-paced wicket , Pakistan 's No 3 batsman , Haris Sohail , took advantage of it by playing sparkling shots through the cover region. It meant that MS Dhoni was forced to introduce Mohit Sharma into the attack in the seventh over of the game. In fact , India could have also got the wicket of Sohail , but MS Dhoni took the bails off at the wrong end . 9.6 Shami to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , defended to short cover 9.5 Shami to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Shehzad tries to fetch the flick from outside off stump , but the ball hits the outside half of the bat and goes towards mid-on 9.4 Shami to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Shehzad defends it to point 9.3 Shami to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , shortish and outside off stump , Shehzad tries to pull on one leg , but does n't get the connection right 9.2 Shami to Sohail , 1 run , full and outside off stump , driven to cover for a run , the fielder has a shy at the bowler 's end but Sohail was well in 9.1 Shami to Sohail , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Sohail defends it to Raina at short point 8.6 Mohit Sharma to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , a nervy poke and Shehzad is comprehensively beaten on that occasion. Good length delivery just outside off stump , Shehzad looks to defend off the front foot , but the ball moves away off the pitch and beats the bat. That was a good tight over from Mohit Sharma 8.5 Mohit Sharma to Sohail , 1 run , strays onto the pads and Sohail flicks it down to fine leg 8.4 Mohit Sharma to Sohail , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Sohail defends with an angled bat and Raina makes a sharp save to his right at short cover-point 8.3 Mohit Sharma to Sohail , no run , a loud call of 'noooo ' from Sohail , after working this short of length delivery to mid-wicket 8.2 Mohit Sharma to Sohail , no run , nicely onto the front foot to defend this length ball towards cover 8.1 Mohit Sharma to Sohail , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Sohail defends it to Raina at short cover-point 7.6 Shami to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , covers the off stump and offers a compact defence 7.5 Shami to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , good length delivery on the off stump , blocked off the back foot 7.5 Shami to Ahmed Shehzad , wide , this one 's way outside off stump , Shehzad was simply ball-watching on that occasion 7.4 Shami to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , he was waiting for it. He read the bowler 's mind right on that occasion. Having received a good short ball previously , Shehzad thought Shami would deliver one more and he was sitting on the back foot. As it arrived , pulled it from the middle of the bat through mid-wicket 7.3 Shami to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , bouncer around the off stump line , Shehzad sways out of the line , but does n't bother to drop his wrists , which is a dangerous ploy 7.2 Shami to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short and wide , punched sweetly off the back foot , it went quickly but straight to backward point 7.1 Shami to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , good length delivery on the leg stump , Shehzad defends from the crease Coming back to that run-out miss , Dhoni suggested that he could n't hear his mates shouting , 'bowler 's end' . 6.6 Mohit Sharma to Sohail , 2 runs , a half-stop at cover. Full and outside off stump , Sohail drives very well again , the fielder dives to his left and gets one hand to it to take some pace off the ball 6.5 Mohit Sharma to Sohail , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Sohail turns it into the on-side 6.4 Mohit Sharma to Sohail , no run , sweetly timed drive off the front foot from Sohail , but he 's hit the fuller length delivery straight to the man at cover 6.3 Mohit Sharma to Sohail , no run , short of length close to the off stump , Sohail defends and the ball rolls off a thickish inside edge into the on-side 6.2 Mohit Sharma to Sohail , 2 runs , it 's free-hit and Sohail hits it over mid-off. It was short and outside off stump , Sohail went hard at it , could n't make proper contact and the fielder inside the ring ran back to tidy up 6.2 Mohit Sharma to Sohail , no ball , oopsy ! Mohit has overstepped here. Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Sohail punches it to short cover 6.1 Mohit Sharma to Sohail , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Sohail defends off the back foot Mohit Sharma , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 5.6 Shami to Sohail , 1 run , outside edge , but it goes along the ground to third man. Oh , chance of a run-out , but Dhoni has hit the stumps at the wrong end. Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Sohail plays inside the line and gets a thick edge , the ball rolls to Umesh Yadav , who fires an accurate throw to the keeper. Sohail wanted two and was charging back for the second but Ahmed Shehzad stands his ground at the striker 's end. Dhoni , as he does always , collects the ball in front of the stumps , hence he is not aware of which batsman is attempting the run , he disturbs the bails at his end , rather than simply throwing it back to Shami who was running back towards the stumps at the bowler 's end 5.6 Shami to Sohail , wide , tries the bouncer again , but it goes way above Sohail 's head. The umpire has his arms outstretched again 5.5 Shami to Sohail , no run , beaten ! Good ball ! Good length delivery angling into the left-hander , Sohail had to play at it as it was close to the off stump line , the ball then jags away off the deck and almost shaves the outside edge 5.4 Shami to Sohail , no run , just a bit of shape back into the left-hander on this good length delivery , Sohail defends off the back foot towards point 5.3 Shami to Sohail , no run , good length ball outside off stump , it seemed to have left the left-hander after pitching but Sohail left it alone 5.3 Shami to Sohail , wide , tries the bumper but gets the radar wrong , bowls this down the leg-side Change of angle from Shami. He switches to round the wicket 5.2 Shami to Sohail , 2 runs , pushed off the back foot , the outfield is quick and it is testing the fielders , Jadeja gives chase from point , slides and saves two. The length was short enough on that occasion for Sohail to hang back in the crease 5.1 Shami to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Shehzad nudges it to mid-wicket 4.6 U Yadav to Sohail , FOUR , cracking shot ! He 's looking very good here. Full and well outside off stump , Sohail leans forward and caresses the drive along the ground through extra-cover. There was a big gap between mid-off and cover and Sohail placed it to perfection 4.5 U Yadav to Sohail , FOUR , a nothing full ball , a gift in fact for the batsman , Sohail does n't try to do anything fancy , just waits for the ball and flicks it along the ground between mid-wicket and mid-on , Ashwin gives chase , puts in the dive but the ball wins the race 4.5 U Yadav to Sohail , wide , banged in short but the umpire does n't like the height on it. It was well above Sohail 's head and Dhoni had to jump high to grab the ball with his right hand 4.4 U Yadav to Sohail , no run , right on the off stump , Sohail respects Umesh with a tight defence 4.3 U Yadav to Sohail , no run , good length delivery just outside off stump , blocked 4.2 U Yadav to Sohail , FOUR , sliced in the air and third man is way too square. Good placement from the batsman. Shortish and well wide of off stump , Sohail deliberately plays it late , hits it in the air but gets it in the gap to the right of backward point 4.1 U Yadav to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , good length delivery on the leg stump , worked away through mid-wicket Dhoni has his favourite leg gully . 3.6 Shami to Sohail , no run , a tight short of a length ball from Shami to close out the over , Sohail defends nicely off the back foot 3.5 Shami to Sohail , no run , back of a length outside off stump , Sohail defends off the back foot 3.5 Shami to Sohail , wide , sprays it way outside off stump , looking to angle it across the left-hander Back to over the wicket now . 3.4 Shami to Sohail , no run , short of length delivery from Shami , Sohail defends it towards mid-off 3.3 Shami to Sohail , 2 runs , round the wicket , Sohail tucks it to mid-wicket , a fumble allows two runs. Mohit Sharma tried to pick the ball with one hand but he spilt it Haris Sohail , left handed bat , comes to the crease 3.2 Shami to Younis Khan , out Caught by Dhoni ! ! The opening slot is n't working for Younis Khan. He managed to score just four runs before today in two outings and now he 's got just 6. He was surprised by the sharp bumper from Shami. Clever thinking from the bowler to bang the ball short , Younis certainly was n't expecting it. He was initially trying to duck , but changed his mind and tried to pull. The ball rushed onto him , hit the glove and popped up in the air. Dhoni took a few steps to his left and took an easy catch. Younis did n't want for the umpire 's signal and he walked. This is not the start Pakistan wanted chasing over 300. Younis Khan c Dhoni b Shami 6 ( 10 ) [ 4s-1 ] Shami to Younis Khan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 3.1 Shami to Younis Khan , no run , nicely gets behind the line of this length ball and defends Younis pulls out as Shami was running in. There was some disturbance behind the bowler 's arm . 2.6 U Yadav to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of length delivery to end the over , Shehzad tucks it into the on-side 2.5 U Yadav to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , another poor ball from Yadav. Down the leg-side , maybe he 's trying hard for the outswinger to leave from the leg stump , but it goes on with the angle and Shehzad flicks it along the ground to deep mid-wicket for a couple of runs 2.4 U Yadav to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Shehzad stands tall and pushes it into the off-side 2.3 U Yadav to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short and wide outside off stump , should have been put away , but Shehzad finds the man at backward point with the cut shot 2.2 U Yadav to Younis Khan , 1 run , much better line and Younis gets a thickish outside edge. Again the late outswing is troubling the batsman , Younis was looking to defend , but the edge ran wide of the man at second slip 2.1 U Yadav to Younis Khan , FOUR , easy ball and Younis helps himself to a boundary. That is the first four for Pakistan as well. Fullish and angling into the batsman , Younis waits for the ball and easily flicks it along the ground past the man at mid-wicket 1.6 Shami to Younis Khan , 1 run , late outswing on this short of length delivery , Younis guides it down to third man. He 's off the mark with that single 1.5 Shami to Younis Khan , no run , testing Younis in that channel outside off stump , but the experienced batsman does n't want to disturb the ball 1.4 Shami to Younis Khan , no run , outswinger again , but well wide of off stump and Younis simply shoulders arms 1.3 Shami to Younis Khan , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Younis fends it into the on-side. In fact , the ball went off a thickish inside edge 1.2 Shami to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , oh he was trying to leave that ball , but it 's gone off the face down to third man. Shehzad decides very late to leave this outswinger and luckily for him , it went along the ground past the second slip fielder 1.1 Shami to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , a sharp nut from Shami first up. Short of a length hurrying onto Shehzad , the batsman tries to hop and defend , but misses and the ball hits him on the stomach. That would have hurt ! Mohammed Shami , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 U Yadav to Younis Khan , no run , short of length delivery on the stumps , Younis defends off the back foot towards mid-wicket 0.5 U Yadav to Younis Khan , no run , poke ! A nervy poke from Younis Khan and he almost kisses this to Dhoni while trying to defend. Umesh delivers a nice outswinger , it was on a short of length region , the away movement opens up the batsman and he 's very lucky to survive 0.4 U Yadav to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , Pakistan open their account with the bat. Friendly ball on the leg stump , Shehzad glances it along the ground to long leg 0.3 U Yadav to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , just a hint of away movement on this short of length delivery on the off stump , Shehzad defends off the back foot 0.2 U Yadav to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , that 's a good ball. It was a teasing delivery from Yadav. It started around the off stump line and then moved away very late , Shehzad was tempted to play it but he held his composure and let it go through to Dhoni 0.1 U Yadav to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , he gets the radar right this time though. Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Shehzad happily stands back to block this one 0.1 U Yadav to Ahmed Shehzad , wide , that 's a poor start from Yadav. He loses control of this ball , bangs it short and it goes way down the leg-side , Dhoni does well to run to his right to collect the ball. Is Umesh nervous ? Ahmed Shehzad and Younis Khan are at the crease. Ahmed Shehzad is on strike. U Yadav will open the attack Umesh Yadav to take the new ball for India. He is ready to go at the start of his run-up. The countdown begins and here we go for the first ball ! Two slips in place . Welcome back. Lots of smoke at Adelaide. The fireworks creating that. Shehzad and Younis have a chat in the middle. They are waiting for the smoke to clear. It 's all fine now ! Kohli : " Absolutely , a really important game for us , starting off against Pakistan is obviously. A very big game for us and I 'm happy with the way we batted. Got a big total on the board. 300 is always a pyschological advantage if we get it on the board. We are really pleased with the batting effort. In the warm-up games and in the tri-series , I tried a bit too much. I have been batting well for the past few months and hitting it really well in the nets as well. So it was all about giving myself more time and having a bit of patience out there and it paid off. I had to play the anchor role and that really allows us to set up a big target. It 's a two-paced wicket. Pakistan bowled in good areas throughout. It was n't easy to score. Raina was absolutely magnificent. The wicket is not as easy as he made it look. Eventually we have to bowl in the right areas even if it 's a greentop , it wo n't be that easy to chase down. Absolutely , I can wrap this ground and take it back home with me. It is that special to me. I 've played a few of my best innings here and coming out here against Pakistan in the first game of the World Cup , it is a really special feeling. " Pakistan also dropped a few chances which cost them in the end. Umar Akmal , the wicket-keeper , dropped a rather easy chance off Haris Sohail to give Virat Kohli a reprieve. Yasir Shah showed his inexperience by not standing on the edge of the mid-wicket boundary when Raina thwacked a six. For Pakistan , Sohail bowled with zest and vigour to take a five-wicket haul. Wahab Riaz also proved his worth in the end overs. By the way , Sohail is the first Pakistani bowler to take a fifer in ODIs since Wahab Riaz 's effort in the 2011 World Cup semifinal against India . In fact , India did n't start on a good note as they lost the early wicket of Rohit Sharma off Sohail Khan 's bowling. However , Dhawan and Kohli kept the scoreboard moving by taking quick singles and twos. Once Dhawan was dismissed for 73 , Raina with his pyrotechnics , smashed the Pakistani attack to shreds. Raina was severe on Sohail as he was thumped for three boundaries in the 44th over of the game. He also slog swept Shahid Afridi for a sumptuous six . In the backdrop of a jam-packed stadium , with 50,000 fans making a raucous din , Virat Kohli essayed an awe-inspiring century to help India amass a huge score of 300 for 7 in their allotted 50 overs. It turned out to be his 22nd century in ODIs. Kohli was eventually dismissed for a superbly-paced innings of 107 off 126 deliveries. Shikhar Dhawan and Suresh Raina also chipped in with key knocks for India. On the other hand , Pakistan 's bowlers did n't help their cause by struggling to bowl with good control for most part of the game , but by taking a slew of wickets in the slog overs , they gained a bit of momentum going into the innings break . 49.6 Sohail Khan to Shami , 2 runs , India get to 300. Shami makes room and slices it to sweeper , to the left of the man , they come back for the second. The Indian contingent in the crowd are all shouting and cheering. Sohail Khan walks off with a huge smile on his face. He holds the ball as he goes off , he leads the team and is hugged by Waqar Younis. One happy fella ! Misbah and Sohail Khan have a chat. Can he end on a high ? 49.5 Sohail Khan to Ashwin , 1 run , Ashwin uses his feet and then works the slower delivery to backward square leg , they do n't take the second 49.4 Sohail Khan to Shami , 1 run , low full toss on the stumps , Shami swings and gets a slice down to third man , awkwardly done 49.3 Sohail Khan to Shami , no run , so nearly a hat-trick ! What a good yorker that was , Shami had no clue as he tried to dig it out , inches away from the off stump. What an achievement that would 've been , if he had taken the hat-trick Mohammed Shami , right handed bat , comes to the crease 49.2 Sohail Khan to Rahane , out Bowled ! ! Sohail Khan gets a five-for on World Cup debut , against India - take a bow. Now on a hat-trick. He kneels down and kisses the turf in celebration. He is all smiles. Bowled the cutter , from the side of the hand , it came very slowly off the deck , Rahane had made room , was waiting for an age to play the shot , does so , but the ball escapes and hits the top of leg. Rahane b Sohail Khan 0 ( 1 ) Sohail Khan to Rahane , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Ravichandran Ashwin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 49.1 Sohail Khan to Dhoni , out Caught by Misbah ! ! Pakistan are finishing well. Third time that Sohail Khan has got a wicket today , with the short ball , hurrying the batsman into the false shot. Dhoni went for an almighty pull , can only miscue it in the air , Misbah runs in from mid-off to take it. Sohail has been impressive today and deserves that. Dhoni c Misbah b Sohail Khan 18 ( 13 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] Sohail Khan to Dhoni , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Ajinkya Rahane , right handed bat , comes to the crease 48.6 Riaz to Ravindra Jadeja , out Bowled ! ! Riaz knocks Ravindra Jadeja over. With a slower delivery , superbly bowled and an ungainly leg-side swipe from Jadeja only produces no connection and the off stump is pegged back. After bowling very quickly , he bowled the cutter , which got the wicket. Ravindra Jadeja b Riaz 3 ( 5 ) Riaz to Ravindra Jadeja , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 48.5 Riaz to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , beats Ravindra Jadeja on the slash now. Pace from Riaz as Jadeja is deep in his crease and ca n't connect This has been a very good over so far. Can he finish it off well ? 48.4 Riaz to Dhoni , 1 run , angled in , punched to sweeper cover Riaz is bowling from round the wicket to Dhoni 48.3 Riaz to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , slower delivery outside off , Ravindra Jadeja reaches out and carves it straight to the fielder at point , only a single. Turns the strike over 48.2 Riaz to Dhoni , 1 run , 154kph angling in , cramping Dhoni for room who pushes to point , that hurried onto Dhoni and he could only play the soft shot 48.1 Riaz to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , run-out missed ! Ravindra Jadeja drives it to cover , Afridi misses as Jadeja is nowhere near the picture , then Yasir shies and he misses too , but by then Jadeja had made his ground. Confusion as both batsmen were n't sure of the single , in the end they get away 47.6 Sohail Khan to Dhoni , SIX , Dhoni connects and gets a six ! Low full toss and angling in , Dhoni went deep into his crease and swings it miles over mid-wicket , Sohail Khan bowled a very good over until then , but missed his target and Dhoni took full toll 47.5 Sohail Khan to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , Sohail Khan tucks Ravindra Jadeja up , who nudges it into the mid-wicket area 47.4 Sohail Khan to Dhoni , 1 run , well bowled ! Yorker on off , Dhoni toe-ends to mid-off , after making room for the big hit Ravindra Jadeja , left handed bat , comes to the crease 47.3 Sohail Khan to Raina , out Caught by Sohail ! ! Raina holes out in the quest for quick runs. Much like Rohit , Raina is hurried onto the pull , no position to play that and he gets a top edge , Haris runs in and takes a good catch at deep mid-wicket. The ball was swirling around and he kept his eyes on it , till the last moment. He then applauds the bowler after taking it. Raina walks off too , raising his bat. Raina c Sohail b Sohail Khan 74 ( 56 ) [ 4s-5 6s-3 ] Sohail Khan to Raina , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 47.2 Sohail Khan to Raina , no run , Gould makes a good call , Raina shuffles across to go over the leg-side , misses the swing , it was n't far away from the leg stump , so Gould gives it as a dot. Dhoni has a chat with the umpire who smiles 47.1 Sohail Khan to Dhoni , 1 run , back of a length outside off , Dhoni punches to sweeper cover , gives Raina the strike 46.6 Riaz to Dhoni , 1 run , slower cutter , tried , shortish outside off , Dhoni cuts to sweeper cover , retains the strike with that run 46.5 Riaz to Raina , 1 run , slower ball bouncer , Raina waits for it and and then hooks , gets a top edge , but lands on the bounce to fine leg 46.4 Riaz to Dhoni , 1 run , short of length outside off , Dhoni wanted to muscle that hard , but mistimes it in front of mid-off , single taken After Kohli got out , Raina went up to him , punched his gloves and patted him on the back. Kohli gave him a mini hug before walking away bat raised to all corners of the Adelaide Oval 46.3 Riaz to Dhoni , no run , pitched up outside off , drilled straight to the fielder at mid-off , Dhoni hit that hard , but did n't hit the gap Now Riaz round the wicket to Dhoni 46.2 Riaz to Raina , 1 run , length ball and Raina heaves it to deep mid-wicket , on the bounce 46.1 Riaz to Raina , no run , low full toss , clipped to square leg , hesitation between Raina and Dhoni , all is well as the batsmen retreat , Yasir does n't throw Wahab Riaz [ 8.0-0-41-0 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Sohail Khan to Dhoni , 2 runs , a wristy whip from Dhoni as he turns the wrists to deep backward square leg , for a couple 45.5 Sohail Khan to Dhoni , no run , clipped straight to the fielder at mid-wicket 45.4 Sohail Khan to Dhoni , FOUR , Dhoni delivers ! The helicopter ! But through mid-off , overpitched outside off and he drills it flat , no-one moved in the field 45.3 Sohail Khan to Dhoni , no run , high full toss , pushed to short mid-wicket MS Dhoni , right handed bat , comes to the crease 45.2 Sohail Khan to Kohli , out Caught by U Akmal ! ! Kohli edges and is caught behind. Sohail Khan roars and is all pumped. But he should know that the batsman has got a 100. Someone please remind him. Full and wide outside off , Kohli went for a big drive and edged it. Umar hangs on. Kohli walks off raising his bat to all corners of the ground. Special innings from a special player. Kohli c U Akmal b Sohail Khan 107 ( 126 ) [ 4s-8 ] Sohail Khan to Kohli , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Coming back to his celebrations after his hundred , he punched the air and shouted as he was crossing to the other end. Then he removed his helmet and soaked in all the applause with arms raised. Hug came from Raina at the other end. Tremendous scenes . Champions turn up when the big matches come around. 100 for Kohli. What.A.Playa ! 3 innings at the Adelaide Oval ( this tour only ) . 3 100s. 2 of them was in a losing cause. Will this turn out to be a match-winning one ? Time will tell. He has not been in the best of nick after the Test series , but against the arch-rivals , he has come to the party. This batsman is a very , very special talent . 45.1 Sohail Khan to Kohli , no run , yorker , wide outside off , Kohli fails to dig it out 44.6 Irfan to Raina , 2 runs , low full toss , wristed to deep backward square leg , for a couple 44.6 Irfan to Raina , no ball , that is a beamer ! Irfan is having all sorts of problems today. Huge beamer , slipped out of his hands , Raina ducks under that and Umar fields on the bounce. Gets a warning from Kettleborough , another one and he will be gone 44.5 Irfan to Kohli , 1 run , slower ball bouncer , Kohli pulls on the bounce to deep mid-wicket 44.4 Irfan to Raina , 1 run , low full toss , Raina times the heave , but straight to the fielder at deep mid-wicket 44.3 Irfan to Raina , FOUR , Raina is playing with the field now , goes outside off and then takes the short delivery on , pulled over square leg , beats the fielder in the deep. Irfan grimaces 44.2 Irfan to Kohli , 1 run , was it a no-ball for height ? Looked like it but Gould does n't give it. Irfan has gotten away with one here , Kohli arches his back and steers it to third man 44.1 Irfan to Kohli , FOUR , Kohli sees the length delivery and swings it over cow corner , takes a step out and hammers it , no chance for long-on. Bad start for Irfan Mohammad Irfan [ 9.0-0-44-0 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Sohail Khan to Raina , 2 runs , full on middle , heaved to deep mid-wicket , for an easy two now A few of the Pakistanis in the crowd are looking very grim 43.5 Sohail Khan to Raina , FOUR , third boundary of the over and again a slower delivery down leg , Raina picks it and swings it to fine leg , beating the fielder easily 43.4 Sohail Khan to Raina , FOUR , Raina makes room and flat-bats a length delivery wide of mid-off , once he missed the man , it was a boundary , Raina now turning it on Fine leg is back. Square leg is in 43.3 Sohail Khan to Raina , FOUR , fine leg is up and Sohail Khan errs there , down leg , Raina swings it away over the man , too easy 43.2 Sohail Khan to Raina , no run , heaves and gets an inside edge onto the pads , the ball rolls back down the wicket , Sohail Khan rushes through to prevent any runs being taken 43.1 Sohail Khan to Raina , no run , down leg , Raina swung and missed , it brushed the trouser pocket on the way to Umar , who went up immediately , Snicko proved him wrong. Gould gets it right Misbah is going for a review against Raina. He checked with his keeper and then signalled for the review. For a caught behind appeal. Snicko says nothing. It 's absolutely dead Snicko says Rameez on air. Raina swung and missed. Nothing on Snicko and Raina survives. Pakistan lose a review Sohail Khan [ 6.0-0-22-1 ] is back into the attack Amidst all this , I forgot to mention Raina 's fifty. Apologies for that . 42.6 Afridi to Raina , 1 run , lets this to come on and runs it off the face of the bat to backward point , they take a single 42.5 Afridi to Kohli , 1 run , makes room and drives to long-off 42.4 Afridi to Kohli , no run , shortish outside off , Kohli cuts and finds point 42.3 Afridi to Raina , 1 run , gets forward and wrists a drive to long-on 42.2 Afridi to Raina , SIX , slog sweep now , bends down and nails it over square leg , the ball goes a long way over the ropes. Raina can prove to be quite dangerous for Pakistan 42.1 Afridi to Kohli , 1 run , 100 for Kohli ! First Indian to score a hundred against Pakistan in a World Cup game. He removes the helmet and soaks in all the applause. Has a thumbs up sign to someone in the crowd. The Indians in the crowd go absolutely bonkers. Gets there with a push to long-on. Even Raina was celebrating as he crossed for the single. Will have more about the celebration later 41.6 Yasir Shah to Raina , no run , skids on , Raina whips this to mid-wicket , straight to the fielder 41.5 Yasir Shah to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli makes room and drives inside out to long-off , for a comfortable single , wanted to get it wide of the man , is a bit disappointed with himself 41.4 Yasir Shah to Raina , 1 run , Raina does the sensible thing by working through square leg 41.3 Yasir Shah to Raina , SIX , that 's a beauty from Raina. He comes down the track and heaves it with the spin over mid-wicket , the key was the use of the feet and then from then on it was easy , the ball sails into the crowd. Played with the angle as well , which helped Raina too 41.2 Yasir Shah to Raina , 2 runs , Raina uses his feet and milks it to long-on , the call was for two and two it was 41.1 Yasir Shah to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli nudges a middle and leg line delivery through mid-wicket Yasir Shah [ 7.0-0-49-0 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Afridi to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli makes room and drives well to long-off 40.5 Afridi to Raina , 1 run , Raina gets forward and works this to deep square leg 40.4 Afridi to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli goes on the back foot to push to long-on 40.3 Afridi to Raina , 1 run , shuffles across and clips it to deep backward square leg 40.2 Afridi to Raina , 2 runs , Raina comes down the track and heaves it to deep mid-wicket , with the spin , for a couple 40.1 Afridi to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli does n't get hold of the pull , but gets a single to deep mid-wicket Shahid Afridi [ 6.0-0-33-0 ] is back into the attack 25 off the batting powerplay. Good one for Pakistan , but India have n't lost a wicket which is big as well . Meanwhile , here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the last 10 overs. Virat Kohli continued to play with supreme touch. His ability to pick the length quickly made it difficult for Pakistan 's spinners to settle into a good rhythm. Kohli has also played with good defence in this game. When Pakistan 's bowlers have bowled with good disciplines , the willow has come down crisply , unwaveringly straight to meet the ball . For Pakistan , Umar Akmal the wicket-keeper , gave Kohli a reprieve by dropping the right-handed batsman when he was on 76. To make it worse for them , if Yasir Shah was fielding at the edge of the mid-wicket boundary , he could have caught Raina. Pakistan desperately need a slew of wickets to restrict India to a score of around 300 . 39.6 Riaz to Kohli , 1 run , pitched up outside off , driven to mid-off , quick single taken 39.5 Riaz to Kohli , no run , short of length and tucking Kohli up for room , Kohli defends to cover 39.4 Riaz to Raina , 1 run , Raina gets inside the line and plays a controlled pull to fine leg Misbah and Riaz have a chat , about field placings 39.3 Riaz to Kohli , 1 run , a bit of an inside edge as Kohli pushes out , he does n't know where the ball is , but Raina calls him through as the ball rolls to backward square 39.2 Riaz to Kohli , no run , angled in from round the wicket and tucks Kohli for room , defended to point , Raina sends Kohli back 39.1 Riaz to Raina , 1 run , opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man 38.6 Irfan to Raina , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Raina reaches out and cuts square of the wicket 38.6 Irfan to Raina , wide , very high short ball and wide called 38.5 Irfan to Raina , no run , Irfan is lucky that it did n't go the boundary , Raina pulled and found short fine , as Irfan bowled short and down leg , either side of the fielder and it would 've been a boundary 38.4 Irfan to Kohli , 1 run , pitched up outside off , driven to mid-off for a single 38.3 Irfan to Kohli , no run , back of a length outside off , Kohli cuts and finds point Afridi and Misbah have a chat. Afridi is making a point , not looking happy as he gesticulates 38.2 Irfan to Kohli , no run , dabbed to point , straight to the fielder 38.1 Irfan to Kohli , FOUR , Waqar is an unhappy man. Down leg and all it needed was placement , short fine inside and deep square was very square , Kohli glanced it to the boundary. Misbah makes his frustrations known as well 37.6 Riaz to Kohli , 1 run , driven wide of the diving cover , mid-off keeps it to a single The wind has picked up again. Unsettling Riaz 37.5 Riaz to Kohli , no run , back of a length outside off , Kohli defends to point Riaz loses his run-up 37.4 Riaz to Kohli , no run , Kohli is beaten neck and crop ! That cut back in and Kohli played down the wrong line , the ball missed the inside edge and went over the stumps , Umar dives to his left and collects. Fine delivery and the bounce in the wicket took it over 37.3 Riaz to Kohli , no run , nips back in and catches Kohli on the thigh pad , Kohli missed the flick and Riaz runs through to collect the ball 37.2 Riaz to Raina , 1 run , the ploy of bowling short to Raina is continuing , Raina swivels and pulls to deep mid-wicket 37.1 Riaz to Raina , FOUR , Raina gets the pull right this time , goes over mid-wicket , towards wide long-on , one bounce over the ropes 36.6 Irfan to Raina , 1 run , Raina gets into an awkward position on the pull , he shuffles across and gets it down to deep mid-wicket , for a single 36.5 Irfan to Raina , no run , Raina eyes a big pull and mistimes it to mid-on , came right off the edge of the bat 36.4 Irfan to Raina , no run , short and wide outside off , Raina cuts and finds Shehzad at point. Bad ball and Raina fails to get runs 36.3 Irfan to Raina , no run , tapped to point and Kohli sends Raina back , Raina gets in even as the throw from Shehzad misses One more transgression from Irfan and he wo n't be allowed to bowl again in the innings 36.2 Irfan to Raina , 2 runs , Raina leans into the drive and places it to deep extra cover , for a couple 36.1 Irfan to Kohli , 1 run , pushed to mid-off , quick single taken Mohammad Irfan [ 7.0-0-33-0 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Riaz to Kohli , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Kohli cuts hard and to sweeper cover 35.5 Riaz to Raina , 1 run , Raina taps that past the diving point , square of the wicket , for a single 35.4 Riaz to Raina , no run , Raina shuffles across and gets a soft leading edge as he closes the face of the bat early on the flick , the ball dribbles to short cover 35.3 Riaz to Kohli , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Kohli plays a flowing drive to sweeper cover 35.2 Riaz to Kohli , no run , pushed off the front foot to cover Riaz going round the wicket to Kohli 35.1 Riaz to Raina , 1 run , short of length outside off , Raina hops a little and glides it with an open face to third man If Yasir was standing right at the edge of the boundary , it would 've gone straight down his throat. Instead he was well in and found it a much difficult catch. Batting powerplay time. Wahab is back as well . Wahab Riaz [ 5.0-0-27-0 ] is back into the attack 34.6 Afridi to Kohli , no run , Kohli opens the face of the bat and finds short third , wants the single , but Raina is n't having anything of it 34.5 Afridi to Raina , 1 run , Raina on the back foot and turning it through mid-wicket 34.4 Afridi to Raina , no run , tossed up on off and Raina presses it back to Afridi 34.3 Afridi to Raina , no run , shortish and punched to short mid-wicket 34.2 Afridi to Kohli , 1 run , skids on and Kohli goes on the back foot to work it through square leg 34.1 Afridi to Kohli , no run , defended to point and Raina sends Kohli back 33.6 Sohail to Kohli , 1 run , gets forward to play a drive to long-off 33.5 Sohail to Raina , 1 run , comes on the front foot and eases a drive to long-on 33.4 Sohail to Raina , SIX , it has gone all the way ! Dragged down short and Raina pulled it high and towards deep mid-wicket , Yasir running to his right , leaps and tips that over the bar , goalie style , it goes beyond the ad-cushions , the umpire signals six 33.3 Sohail to Raina , no run , comes down the track and drives it well , but straight to the fielder at mid-off , inside the ring 33.2 Sohail to Raina , no run , tapped to square leg , straight to the fielder 33.1 Sohail to Kohli , 1 run , nudged off the back foot to backward square leg 32.6 Afridi to Kohli , 1 run , slightly short on middle and leg , worked away off the back foot to deep mid-wicket 32.5 Afridi to Raina , 1 run , down leg , nurdled to backward square leg for a single 32.4 Afridi to Raina , no run , punched to short mid-wicket 32.3 Afridi to Kohli , 3 runs , they have run three for that. The ball just went outside the 30-yard circle , Afridi is a disappointed man , he is waving his arms in frustration , Kohli inside-edged the pull as it hurried on , the ball went between his legs and beat short fine , lazy work from the fielders , allows Raina to come back for three 32.2 Afridi to Raina , 1 run , softly nudged in the gap at mid-wicket Now round the wicket to Raina 32.1 Afridi to Raina , 2 runs , Raina opens the face of the bat and punches it to deep backward point , placed in the gap for a couple Shahid Afridi [ 4.0-0-23-0 ] is back into the attack 31.6 Sohail to Kohli , no run , clipped straight to the fielder at mid-wicket 31.5 Sohail to Kohli , no run , dropped by Umar Akmal. Sohail is a disappointed man. It turned away and Kohli was playing a lazy push off the front foot , big edge and straight in before going out. How costly will that prove to be ? Match-turning ? 31.4 Sohail to Raina , 1 run , pushed wide of cover , easy single 31.3 Sohail to Raina , no run , tossed up outside off , Raina gets forward and defends with bat and pad close together 31.2 Sohail to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli goes on the back foot to push to long-on 31.1 Sohail to Raina , 1 run , Raina goes on the back foot to push to long-on 30.6 Yasir Shah to Raina , 1 run , on middle and leg , calmly worked through mid-wicket 30.5 Yasir Shah to Kohli , 1 run , comes on the front foot and drives to long-off 30.4 Yasir Shah to Raina , 1 run , gets forward and flicks it to deep mid-wicket 30.3 Yasir Shah to Kohli , 1 run , on middle and leg , worked off the back foot to deep square leg 30.2 Yasir Shah to Kohli , no run , skids onto off and middle , punched straight to the fielder at cover 30.1 Yasir Shah to Raina , 1 run , stabbed to point , into the gap and Raina is off the mark Meanwhile , here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the last 10 overs. Both Virat Kohli and Shikhar Dhawan notched up fifties as India looked set to amass a sizeable total on the board. Kohli and Dhawan twinned fine strokes with quick singles to keep Pakistan 's fielders on their toes. In particular , Kohli played with nimble wrists to milk the spinners. To make it worse for Pakistan , Mohammad Irfan was warned for the second time by the umpire for running on the pitch. If Irfan does it again , he would be taken off the attack. Irfan then , decided to bowl from around the wicket . Yasir Shah , the leg-spinner , bowled with decent control during the middle part of the game , but as the track has offered little assistance for the spinners , he struggled to make any impact. Occasionally , he bowled over-spin in an attempt to keep the batsmen guessing. Just in the nick of time though , Misbah-ul-Haq effected a direct hit to send Dhawan back to the pavilion and end the century stand . 29.6 Sohail to Kohli , 2 runs , Kohli gets forward and drives wide of long-off , easy two Suresh Raina , left handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks time again . 29.5 Sohail to Kohli , out Dhawan Run Out ! ! Kohli nudged that to short mid-wicket , he took a step or two out and then saw Misbah coming in to field , sent Dhawan back , but the direct hit found Dhawan short despite the dive. An inch or two short as Misbah hits bulls-eye. Dhawan walks off to a standing ovation , raising his bat to acknowledge the applause. He points the bat at someone in the crowd. Dhawan run out ( Misbah ) 73 ( 76 ) [ 4s-7 6s-1 ] Sohail to Kohli , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Has Dhawan been run out ? Direct hit from Misbah at short mid-wicket. Dhawan looks to be struggling. Against the run of play , Pakistan may have got a wicket. The bat looks to be short of the line as Dhawan dived. OUT should be the call and it is OUT. Pakistan flags flutter in the breeze. Dhawan walks off 29.4 Sohail to Kohli , no run , defended to the right of Sohail 29.3 Sohail to Kohli , FOUR , bad bowling. Really bad. Very short and wide outside off , Kohli wo n't miss out , rocks back and cuts past point , beats sweeper. All he needed to do was to hit the gap 29.2 Sohail to Kohli , 2 runs , another couple to deep mid-wicket , as Kohli gets forward and flicks. Quick running too 29.1 Sohail to Dhawan , 1 run , tapped into the gap at cover point 28.6 Yasir Shah to Kohli , no run , pushed back to the bowler 28.5 Yasir Shah to Dhawan , 1 run , clipped through square leg , for a single 28.4 Yasir Shah to Dhawan , FOUR , a little shimmy outside leg and then comes back in line to scream a drive wide of mid-off , he was inside the circle and it went all along the carpet. Kohli applauds that shot and pats Dhawan on the back The wind has picked up now. Lots of dust flying around. A staff member tries his best to keep the ad cushions in place , preventing them from flying away. Slight delay , but we are ready to go 28.3 Yasir Shah to Dhawan , FOUR , fabulous shot from Dhawan , he uses his feet and whips it over mid-wicket , knew what he was doing and beats the man in takes the edge deep , Yasir Shah wears a bemused expression - suggesting it was too good 28.2 Yasir Shah to Kohli , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle and leg , Kohli gets to the pitch and pushes it to long-on 28.1 Yasir Shah to Kohli , 2 runs , Kohli flicks to deep mid-wicket , for yet another couple 27.6 Sohail to Kohli , 1 run , skids onto off and Kohli pushes off the back foot to long-on 27.5 Sohail to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan sees the shorter length and punches to long-on 27.4 Sohail to Kohli , 1 run , tossed up on middle , Kohli gets forward and drives to long-off 27.3 Sohail to Kohli , no run , Kohli punches that to cover 27.2 Sohail to Kohli , no run , Kohli gets forward and pushes it to cover 27.1 Sohail to Kohli , 2 runs , very short and wide outside off , Kohli thumps it to deep extra cover , easy two Haris Sohail , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 26.6 Yasir Shah to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli gets forward and plays a flowing off-drive to long-off , retains the strike with that run 26.5 Yasir Shah to Dhawan , 1 run , sliding down , Dhawan clips it to deep backward square leg 26.4 Yasir Shah to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan gets forward and defends 26.3 Yasir Shah to Dhawan , 2 runs , Dhawan comes down the track and flicks to deep square leg , there is a direct hit from deep square leg , but Kohli was well in. Third ump called for and it 's a bit of a delay as he confirms the decision 26.2 Yasir Shah to Dhawan , no run , Umar wants the throw back from Yasir Shah as Dhawan was out of his crease , but Shah does n't shy , it was driven back at him after Dhawan used his feet , he should 've thrown for Dhawan was out of his crease 26.1 Yasir Shah to Kohli , 1 run , yorker length on the stumps , dug out wide of the diving Shehzad at cover 25.6 Irfan to Kohli , 1 run , 100-run stand is up with a pull to deep mid-wicket , 'catch ' was the call but there was no-one inside the ring at mid-wicket to catch that 25.5 Irfan to Dhawan , 1 run , drop and run to short cover , quick running again Irfan has now been warned offically for the 2nd time. Bad news. One more time and he ca n't bowl in the innings. His giant strides are taking him right into the danger zone. Again he goes round the wicket now to Dhawan 25.4 Irfan to Dhawan , no run , short of length outside off , dabbed to point 25.3 Irfan to Dhawan , no run , short and wide outside off , Dhawan looks to ramp that over the slips and fails to do so 25.2 Irfan to Kohli , 1 run , Afridi has hit Kohli on the back with the throw. Kohli smiles and gets on with it. Afridi has a check and all is fine. Nice to see. It was dropped and run to short cover , Afridi was going for the stumps but found Kohli in the way. Kohli grimaced in pain after the ball hit , but soon broke into a smile Now Irfan 's response is to go round the wicket Irfan has been offically warned by Ian Gould for running on the pitch 25.1 Irfan to Kohli , no run , well-timed front foot drive , but straight to the fielder at cover 24.6 Yasir Shah to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli plays a punchy drive , wide of the diving short cover 24.5 Yasir Shah to Dhawan , 1 run , nudged to backward square leg 24.4 Yasir Shah to Dhawan , no run , looked a different delivery , from the front of the hand , Dhawan spots and defends to the right of Yasir Shah 24.3 Yasir Shah to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli goes on the back foot to push that to long-on 24.2 Yasir Shah to Dhawan , 1 run , down the track and eased to long-on 24.1 Yasir Shah to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan comes down the track and turns it to short mid-wicket 23.6 Irfan to Dhawan , leg byes , 1 run , down leg and it runs off the pad behind square for a leg bye as Dhawan misses the flick Slip moved to a deepish short leg 23.5 Irfan to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli opens the face of the bat and guides it to the left of Shehzad at point 23.4 Irfan to Kohli , no run , the cutter beats Kohli , on the forward push , flirted out and did n't edge it , does n't carry to Umar though 23.4 Irfan to Kohli , wide , wide has been called as Kohli belatedly pulls out of the shot , it was short and outside off , Kohli wanted to hook and then left it go. Richard Kettleborough signals the wide from square leg 23.3 Irfan to Kohli , no run , Kohli softly taps that to the right of Irfan who fields , may have been the cutter from the big man 23.2 Irfan to Dhawan , 1 run , nudged to mid-wicket , into the gap A slip in place as Pakistan look for a breakthrough Dhawan 's lbw call last over , pitching in line , but going down 23.1 Irfan to Kohli , 1 run , back of a length outside off , Kohli punches it to sweeper cover , for a single Mohammad Irfan [ 5.0-0-26-0 ] is back into the attack 22.6 Yasir Shah to Dhawan , no run , big shout for lbw , but that may have pitched outside leg as Dhawan swept and missed , would 've been going down as well. No dice for Yasir Shah 22.5 Yasir Shah to Kohli , 1 run , 50 for Kohli now and he punches the air ! The Indians in the crowd are dancing in the isles. Glanced to short fine and a quick single taken. Kohli takes in all the applause as he reaches No. 34 in ODIs - with respect to fifties. He has to kick on , though 22.4 Yasir Shah to Kohli , FOUR , Irfan does n't do a good job at all and that 's poor. Kohli uses his feet and hammers it to long-off , Irfan at long-off runs and dives to his right , but the ball goes under his body. Two extra runs given away 22.3 Yasir Shah to Kohli , no run , solidly defended to cover 22.2 Yasir Shah to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan comes down the track and eases a drive to long-on Misbah and Yasir Shah have a chat now 22.1 Yasir Shah to Kohli , 1 run , nudged to backward square leg , quick single taken 21.6 Riaz to Dhawan , FOUR , Dhawan has nailed the cut. Short and wide outside off , Dhawan flashed a powerful shot , which beat Shehzad 's dive. No chance for him as the ball rockets to the fence. He cuts a sorry figure 21.5 Riaz to Dhawan , no run , dug in short and outside off , Dhawan arches back and sways out of the line , called one short ball for the over 21.4 Riaz to Kohli , 1 run , short and wide outside off , cut to sweeper cover 21.3 Riaz to Kohli , no run , Kohli opens the face of the bat on this back of a length delivery outside off , but finds gully 21.2 Riaz to Kohli , no run , a forceful punchy drive off the front foot , but straight to the fielder at cover 21.1 Riaz to Dhawan , 1 run , 50 for Dhawan ! He has been under pressure coming into the tournament , for a poor run of scores , but he has dug in and got a score. Mistimed chop wide of point , they take a single and Dhawan wants two , is sent back and rightly so. Dhawan gets a pat on the head from Kohli and a hug. The Indian contingent applaud that effort 20.6 Yasir Shah to Dhawan , 1 run , on middle and leg , Dhawan gets forward and flicks to deep mid-wicket 20.5 Yasir Shah to Kohli , 1 run , now rocks back and nudges this through square leg , for a comfortable single 20.4 Yasir Shah to Kohli , FOUR , that 's brilliant from Kohli. Yasir Shah and Umar thought that they had got Kohli there. It was the flipper , skidded onto off , but Kohli judged it perfectly and cut that hard and into the gap at point. The ball raced away , shows what a special player Kohli is 20.3 Yasir Shah to Kohli , no run , gets forward and defends it back to Yasir Shah 20.2 Yasir Shah to Kohli , FOUR , that is trademark Kohli. Down the track and going inside out over cover , superbly hit and it 's a boundary 20.1 Yasir Shah to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan comes down the track and drives to mid-off , takes the quick single Meanwhile , here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the first 20 overs. After Rohit Sharma was dismissed , Virat Kohli and Shikhar Dhawan , with a flurry of boundaries set a solid platform for India. Kohli showed his class by playing a sweep shot behind square to collect four runs. It gives an indication about his ability to out-think the bowler , as he knew that a fielder was n't stationed at deep backward square-leg. On the other hand , the easy-paced wicket has helped Dhawan to play his natural game. When the ball nips around , Dhawan 's tendency to not move his back-foot has led to him edging the ball to the slip cordon and his eventual dismissal . As the ball kept ricocheting off the boundary boards , Pakistan introduced Shahid Afridi and the left-arm pacer , Wahab Riaz , into the attack. Riaz , mixed it up by bowling the odd bouncer and using cross-seam deliveries to skid it off the surface. But after bowling a few tight overs , released the pressure by drifting onto the pads of Dhawan. Yasir Shah , the leg-spinner , too struggled to bowl with control . Lot of comments coming in about how Yasir Shah resembles Lionel Messi a lot. And must say , they are dead right. Dopplegangers ! 19.6 Riaz to Kohli , no run , and the fielder stops that. Kohli played that dab again with an open face Now a fielder has been placed at gully to stop Kohli running it down to third man 19.5 Riaz to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan picks the slower delivery well and drives to sweeper cover 19.4 Riaz to Kohli , 1 run , short outside off , Kohli opens the face of the bat and glides it down to third man 19.3 Riaz to Dhawan , 1 run , excellently done by both Dhawan and Kohli , defended towards short cover and they hare across to make the run 19.2 Riaz to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli opens the face of the bat and runs that down wide of point for a single Kohli is unhappy with movement behind the bowler 's arm. A slight delay in play. That 's sorted now 19.1 Riaz to Kohli , no run , pitched up outside off , Kohli punches that straight to the fielder at point , off the front foot Wahab now round the wicket to Kohli 18.6 Yasir Shah to Dhawan , no run , tossed up on the stumps , Dhawan gets forward to dead-bat it 18.5 Yasir Shah to Dhawan , FOUR , Yasir Shah drags it down and Dhawan puts that away , rocked back and punched it past the diving Misbah at cover , sweeper could n't there , Dhawan used the depth of the crease well and timed that beautifully 18.4 Yasir Shah to Kohli , 1 run , on the back foot and punched to sweeper cover 18.3 Yasir Shah to Kohli , no run , Kohli looks for a tap and run to point , but the fielder charges in to prevent that 18.2 Yasir Shah to Kohli , no run , on the stumps , Kohli gets forward and defends to cover 18.1 Yasir Shah to Kohli , no run , down leg and Kohli misses out on the flick , off the pads and Umar collects Yasir Shah , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 17.6 Riaz to Kohli , 1 run , back of a length outside off , Kohli opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man 17.5 Riaz to Dhawan , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Dhawan plays a late cut to square third man , for a single 17.4 Riaz to Dhawan , FOUR , very poor delivery and Dhawan brings up the 50-run stand with a pull. Short and miles down leg , Dhawan helped the pull to the fence. Dhawan and Kohli have a chat with the latter having a few words to say in that conversation 17.3 Riaz to Dhawan , no run , back of a length outside off , Dhawan mistimes the cut , hit it hard into the ground and found point 17.2 Riaz to Kohli , 1 run , opens the face of the bat and runs it down to square third man , for a single 17.1 Riaz to Kohli , no run , almost dragged on ! Kohli looked to defend off the back foot , the angled bat and the inside edge is taken by the pad and it misses leg stump. Riaz has his hands on his head , he runs in to prevent any thoughts of a quick single being taken by the batsmen India are playing this well. They are keeping the scoreboard ticking with sensible batting. Just no risks taken. The running between the wickets has been very good too. Mind you , this is a batting beauty. So they would need all the runs they can muster 16.6 Afridi to Kohli , 1 run , gets forward and drives to long-off 16.5 Afridi to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan nudges that into the gap at square leg , for another single 16.4 Afridi to Kohli , 1 run , pushed off the back foot to long-on 16.3 Afridi to Kohli , 2 runs , hurries onto Kohli , down leg , a short-arm pull to deep backward square leg , couple taken 16.2 Afridi to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan charges Afridi and is beaten in the flight , but opens the face of the bat to square drive 16.1 Afridi to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli goes on the back foot to work that to deep mid-wicket 15.6 Riaz to Dhawan , no run , hurries onto Dhawan , pacy delivery from Riaz , Dhawan brings the bat down late and defends into the off-side 15.5 Riaz to Dhawan , no run , called one for the over , it was a short delivery and dug in down leg , Dhawan ducked under that and Umar took it above his head as the ball thudded into his mitts. The square leg calls it one short ball for the over 15.4 Riaz to Kohli , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Kohli gets forward and leans into the cover drive , nicely timed square of the wicket 15.3 Riaz to Kohli , no run , punched to Shehzad at point , who moves to his right and fields , the shot was timed well and Shehzad did well 15.2 Riaz to Kohli , 2 runs , quick running by Kohli and Dhawan , it was nudged off the hips behind square and Kohli spotted the chance for the 2nd , pushed his partner and made it back easily 15.1 Riaz to Dhawan , 1 run , wristy push to mid-on , they take the single Wahab pulls out as he loses his run-up Drinks are on the field now. The intensity of this game is top-notch and the crowd are 'unbelievable in Shane Warne 's words. Feels every bit like an India-Pakistan game. Pakistan made a good start but India look like they want to keep wickets in hand and then explode later on. Sounds a good strategy. We are only 15 overs into the game and it already feels like we have been there for a long time . 14.6 Afridi to Kohli , no run , flicked to short mid-wicket 14.5 Afridi to Dhawan , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Dhawan gets forward and taps it square of the wicket , for a single 14.4 Afridi to Kohli , 1 run , glanced fine to short fine leg , quick single taken 14.3 Afridi to Kohli , FOUR , down leg and that 's easy pickings for Kohli , kneels down and plays a powerful sweep , beating deep backward square , rolled his wrists and kept it down too 14.2 Afridi to Kohli , 2 runs , whippy wristy cover drive and straight through cover 's hands , Afridi is n't happy at all , the fielder who is Shehzad does n't even get up and chase , they take two as long-off fields 14.1 Afridi to Dhawan , 1 run , generously tossed up and Dhawan gets forward to drive to long-on Now Afridi round the wicket to Dhawan 13.6 Riaz to Kohli , no run , Kohli shuffles across to cover off and defends it towards short mid-wicket , Riaz runs and fields 13.5 Riaz to Kohli , 2 runs , Kohli is a bit hurried onto the pull , does n't get the timing on the shot , a swivel pull to deep mid-wicket , for two 13.4 Riaz to Dhawan , 1 run , down leg , easily clipped away to deep backward square leg 13.3 Riaz to Dhawan , 2 runs , in the air , but just wide of the diving point. Shehzad went full length to his left , but could n't get there. Riaz applauds that effort 13.2 Riaz to Kohli , 1 run , short of length on the hips , Kohli closes the face of the bat and nudges it to square leg 13.1 Riaz to Kohli , no run , fullish and on off , Kohli plays a punchy wristy drive , but straight to the fielder at mid-on Wahab Riaz , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 12.6 Afridi to Kohli , 1 run , a roll of the wrists and worked wide of mid-wicket , to keep strike 12.5 Afridi to Kohli , no run , skids onto off and middle , Kohli defends it back to Afridi 12.4 Afridi to Kohli , no run , tossed up on middle , pushed to short mid-wicket 12.3 Afridi to Dhawan , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Dhawan defends it in the gap at point 12.2 Afridi to Kohli , 1 run , pushed off the back foot to long-on 12.1 Afridi to Dhawan , 1 run , gets forward and drives to long-on 11.6 Sohail Khan to Kohli , no run , pitched up outside off , Kohli gets forward and opens the face of the bat to guide it to cover-point 11.5 Sohail Khan to Kohli , FOUR , that is a fine pull shot ! Kohli swivelling on the shot and rolling his wrists , to keep it down , wide of mid-on , deep mid-wicket had no chance. The Indian team members - Raina and Mohit applaud that shot 11.4 Sohail Khan to Kohli , no run , driven forcefully off the front foot , but straight to the fielder at cover 11.3 Sohail Khan to Dhawan , 1 run , short and down leg , a flamboyant one-legged pull to fine leg 11.2 Sohail Khan to Kohli , 1 run , fumbled at mid-on and they eventually take the single. Pushed off the back foot and Kohli sent Dhawan back after seeing the fielder run in , the fielder tumbled and lost control of the ball , then the batsmen took the run 11.1 Sohail Khan to Dhawan , 1 run , down leg , Dhawan closes the face of the bat and glances it to fine leg 10.6 Afridi to Dhawan , 1 run , pushed square of the wicket 10.5 Afridi to Kohli , 1 run , has that been dropped ? Yasir Shah the man running to his right at long-on. On replays it does n't look like a dropped catch. Very difficult chance , it would 've been one of the great catches if he had caught that , it was a miscued pull and Yasir ran at full pelt , went at with both hands , but the ball died on him , he could n't scoop his hands under the ball. Nervy moment for Kohli though 10.4 Afridi to Kohli , no run , Younis Khan at cover , slides to his left and keeps Kohli at his end. Good throw back to the keeper too 10.3 Afridi to Kohli , no run , pushed off the back foot to mid-on 10.2 Afridi to Kohli , no run , hurries onto Kohli , who gets forward and defends to cover 10.1 Afridi to Dhawan , 1 run , tossed up on leg , nudged to deep backward square leg Shahid Afridi , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack Sohail Khan is a very strong man. He is built like a boxer. Tall and has his chest puffing out , as he runs in to bowl. Well-built would be an understatement to describe him . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the first 10 overs : In the backdrop of a frenzied atmosphere and raucous din created by 50,000 flag-waving fans , India made a steady start after winning the toss and electing to bat. It was Shikhar Dhawan , who initially took the aggressive route by taking advantage of a short and wide delivery from the towering giant , Mohammad Irfan , to send it scurrying to the boundary boards . Dhawan , with his broad blade , also played a crunching hook shot off the bowling of Irfan that ended up in the stands. Pakistan though , made a fine comeback , with Sohail Khan snaring the wicket of Rohit Sharma. Rohit , known for finding gaps with needlepoint precision , paid the price for trying to belt the cover off the ball. For Pakistan , Irfan extracted disconcerting bounce from a good length and troubled the Indian batsmen . 9.6 Sohail Khan to Kohli , no run , Kohli shuffles across a little and softly nudges this towards short mid-wicket 9.5 Sohail Khan to Dhawan , 1 run , down leg , tickled to fine leg 9.4 Sohail Khan to Dhawan , no run , Sohail Khan is now steaming in and bowling at pace , another delivery hurries onto Dhawan and cramps him for room , it nips back in and catches the batsman on the thigh pad , beating the flick 9.3 Sohail Khan to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli looks to defend off the back foot and gets a thick outside edge , but in the gap to third man, 9.2 Sohail Khan to Kohli , no run , back of a length outside off , pushed to point off the back foot Coming back to Rohit 's dismissal , he completey lost his shape while playing that. The body contorted and as a result , he lost all timing. Looks very awkward on the replays 9.1 Sohail Khan to Kohli , no run , short of length and Kohli plays a perfect back foot defensive to cover Our man there , Rajaraman , reckons that the ball is n't coming onto the bat as expected. That might be the reason for Rohit 's mistimed pull . 8.6 Irfan to Dhawan , no run , nips back in and Dhawan 's hand comes off as he defends it into his pad , the ball rolls to the left of Irfan 8.5 Irfan to Dhawan , FOUR , it was in the air , but wide of Younis in that short catching backward square leg , the fine leg was very square and he had no chance of cutting it off , poor delivery and Dhawan cashed in 8.4 Irfan to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli hangs back and opens the face of the bat to run it down to square third man 8.3 Irfan to Kohli , no run , Shehzad dives to his right at point to field that as Kohli stabbed it away from the body , played away from the body which may be a dangerous ploy , if the ball moves away 8.2 Irfan to Kohli , no run , angled across Kohli , who watches it and shoulders arms 8.1 Irfan to Kohli , no run , goes for the yorker first up , Kohli shuffles across and clips it to square leg 7.6 Sohail Khan to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli is away with a flashing cut to third man , it was in the air , but well wide of point 7.5 Sohail Khan to Kohli , no run , pacy back of a length delivery outside off , Kohli lets it go 7.4 Sohail Khan to Kohli , no run , Kohli tries to cut that too hard and edges it softly , the ball bounces in front of 2nd slip. Good pace being generated now by Sohail Khan Virat Kohli , right handed bat , comes to the crease 7.3 Sohail Khan to Rohit , out Caught by Misbah ! ! Rohit is gone ! The short ball does it for Sohail Khan. Hurried onto Rohit who was on the front foot looking to pull , off the splice and it lobs in front of mid-off , Misbah runs in and completes a simple catch. He is all smiles after taking it. Rohit c Misbah b Sohail Khan 15 ( 20 ) [ 4s-2 ] Sohail Khan to Rohit , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 7.2 Sohail Khan to Rohit , no run , short of length on off , Rohit defends it back to Sohail Khan 7.1 Sohail Khan to Dhawan , 1 run , tucked off the hips to fine leg 6.6 Irfan to Rohit , 2 runs , short of length outside off , Rohit opens the face of the bat and glides it to deep backward point , Wahab Riaz runs and slides to keep it to two , it looked an awkwardly effort , but he saved two 6.5 Irfan to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan gives the thumbs up to Rohit after a risky single. Risky , because Dhawan was n't sure where the ball went after he inside edge the drive , the ball went to Younis and Rohit wanted the single , pushed Dhawan who made it as Younis missed the stumps 6.4 Irfan to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan has a bit of trouble there , but pushed it awkwardly into the off-side , as the short ball comes in at outside off Shane Warne on air : " It 's unbelievable , the atmosphere out there " What will Irfan 's riposte be now ? 6.3 Irfan to Dhawan , SIX , Dhawan has hit that for a six. Takes on the short ball outside off and pulls over square leg , deliberately hit in the air , knowing no-one was there in the deep , it would n't have mattered as the ball sails over the ropes 6.2 Irfan to Dhawan , no run , angled in on the stumps , Dhawan defends it back to Irfan This is a nuisance now ! Dhawan again pulling out , unhappy with spectators moving 6.1 Irfan to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan rises onto his toes and softly nudges it to Younis , kept it down and played it well Younis Khan has been placed at a short backward square , for a catch off a short ball , fending Dhawan pulls out as Irfan runs in. Some movement behind the bowler 's arm 5.6 Sohail Khan to Dhawan , leg byes , 1 run , down leg and Dhawan once more misses out , but they take a leg bye as the ball brushes the pad and goes to fine leg 5.5 Sohail Khan to Dhawan , no run , extra bounce from a back of a length and surprises Dhawan , it rears up on him and he takes one hand off the bat handle , as the ball hits the splice. Sohail Khan 's pace hurried him there 5.4 Sohail Khan to Dhawan , no run , back of a length on off , defended towards mid-off , the fielder from cover closed in and that forced Dhawan to retreat 5.3 Sohail Khan to Rohit , 1 run , nudged towards short mid-wicket , they take a quick single. Easily done in the end 5.2 Sohail Khan to Rohit , no run , good length outside off , Rohit gets a good stride forward and blocks solidly 5.1 Sohail Khan to Dhawan , 1 run , short and down leg , Dhawan swivels on the pull , gets it down to fine leg , on the bounce 4.6 Irfan to Rohit , FOUR , overpitched outside off and Rohit puts Irfan away with a drive wide of point. Opened the face to get the gap and it beats the chasing fielder 4.5 Irfan to Rohit , no run , beaten ! That 's what the round the wicket angle can do , angles in and straightens past the forward push , made him play and it was so close to the outside edge 4.4 Irfan to Rohit , no run , angled in , but not close to off , Rohit is taking his time to get in , leaves another one Now Irfan is coming round the wicket 4.3 Irfan to Rohit , no run , short and outside off , Rohit sways away and lets it go 4.2 Irfan to Rohit , no run , back to the probing outside off line , Rohit flags it through to the keeper 4.1 Irfan to Rohit , FOUR , now Rohit gets going , in the air , but flicked over mid-wicket. The line was middle and leg and Rohit latched on with a superb shot. The Indians in the crowd find their voice 3.6 Sohail Khan to Dhawan , no run , down leg and full , Dhawan missed out , clipped and missed , the ball rushes off the pad into the leg-side 3.5 Sohail Khan to Dhawan , FOUR , first boundary of the game ! Short and wide outside off , Dhawan stands tall and cuts hard , wide of the diving point. He hammered that. Ca n't afford to bowl there 3.4 Sohail Khan to Rohit , 1 run , on middle , Rohit closes the face of the bat too early and gets a leading edge , but wide of anyone , single to wide mid-off. That could 've so easily gone to hand 3.3 Sohail Khan to Dhawan , 1 run , fraction short outside off , Dhawan mishits the pull , wide of mid-on , Wahab dives to his left and keeps it to a single. Good fielding from the big man 3.2 Sohail Khan to Dhawan , no run , pitched up outside off , Dhawan mistimes the cover drive , tried to hit it too hard and finds cover 3.1 Sohail Khan to Dhawan , no run , tight delivery on the stumps , Dhawan pushes it back to Sohail 2.6 Irfan to Rohit , no run , outside off , angle , left alone 2.5 Irfan to Dhawan , 1 run , so nearly a wicket. Irfan gets steep bounce and gets the lifter going , Dhawan is all at sea , is on the hop as he fends out , luckily for him , the outside edge goes to the left and wide of 2nd slip. A couple of Pakistanis have their hands on their head. Dhawan certainly is n't looking comfortable against Irfan 2.4 Irfan to Dhawan , no run , directed into the rib-cage , Dhawan awkwardly fends to backward square leg , one hand came off the bat handle as he played that 2.3 Irfan to Dhawan , no run , Umar is appealing for everything ! What a short delivery that is though , right at the chest of Dhawan , the batsman did n't drop his hands as he swayed away from the line of the ball , it was close to the bat and the glove , but missed everything 2.2 Irfan to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan gets half-forward and defends to the left of point 2.1 Irfan to Rohit , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Rohit gets a sort-of-a thick outside edge on the drive , wide of point 1.6 Sohail Khan to Dhawan , no run , still further outside off , the tempter , Dhawan does n't have anything to do with it 1.5 Sohail Khan to Dhawan , no run , slanted well wide of off , Dhawan shoulders arms 1.4 Sohail Khan to Dhawan , no run , that is a good shot , but straight to the fielder at point , square driven , but Dhawan picks out the fielder 1.3 Sohail Khan to Rohit , 1 run , angles in and towards off stump , Rohit is stuck on the crease and gets a thick inside edge to backward square leg 1.3 Sohail Khan to Rohit , wide , drifts down leg , wide called 1.2 Sohail Khan to Dhawan , 1 run , tucked wide of backward square leg , easy single If that had been reviewed , Pakistan would 've wasted their only review. What a waste that would 've been. Generally it 's the captain who signals for the review. Sohail forgot that and in excitement wanted the review. Misbah did the sensible thing by calming down his players . 1.1 Sohail Khan to Dhawan , no run , Sohail is asking for a DRS review ! Comical scenes as Misbah tells the bowler that Dhawan edged it. Sohail Khan appealed as the slip fielders went up in unison , it swung in and Dhawan jammed it onto the pads , definitely bat first. Misbah is an angry man and tells Sohail to get on with it. Umar and the slip fielders fooled Sohail there , the bowler did n't go up initially , he was made to by his mates Sohail Khan , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Irfan to Rohit , no run , Umar drops it ! But there was no outside edge. Irfan beats Rohit on the angle , drawing the batsman forward with a fuller length delivery and just about moving it away to beat the forward push 0.5 Irfan to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan too is off the mark , Dhawan defends off the back foot and the ball goes to third man , easy single 0.4 Irfan to Rohit , 1 run , Rohit is off the mark , back of a length outside off , Rohit opens the face of the bat and angles the bat and dabs to square third man , wanted two , slipped a little when he turned back for the 2nd , so sent Dhawan back and rightly so. It was a good throw back to Umar , albeit on the bounce 0.3 Irfan to Rohit , no run , Irfan makes Rohit play , draws him forward , the batsman defends cautiously to mid-off Two slips in place 0.2 Irfan to Rohit , no run , cranks it up a bit , but still the line is outside off , on a back of a length this time , Rohit goes back and then lets it go 0.1 Irfan to Rohit , no run , angled across on a good length , it 's outside off , so Rohit has a sighter , left alone Rohit and Dhawan are at the crease. Rohit is on strike. Irfan will open the attack The countdown is running as Irfan does a few mock runs towards the bowling crease. Rohit to face first up. So all set ? Let 's go ! After the Pakistani anthem , it 's India 's. Virat Kohli looks quite serious as he sings the anthem. We are all set to go now. Dhawan and Rohit Sharma are waiting to go in to bat. Pakistan team are in a huddle. Misbah doing the talking. The giant , Mohammad Irfan towers over everyone else as he nods in agreement to what the skipper says . Ranjan Madugalle leads the officials out. Then the players come out with little kids in tow. Nice to see that. The Adelaide Oval is buzzing. What an occasion. What an event this is. All set for the national anthems. This should be very poignant and emotional for everyone. Pakistan 's anthem is first up. It 's a beauty. So melodious and soulful. Afridi has his eyes closed while a couple of Pakistanis have placed their hands on their chest . Teams : Pakistan ( Playing XI ) : Ahmed Shehzad , Younis Khan , Haris Sohail , Misbah-ul-Haq ( c ) , Sohaib Maqsood , Umar Akmal ( w ) , Shahid Afridi , Wahab Riaz , Yasir Shah , Sohail Khan , Mohammad Irfan India ( Playing XI ) : Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Virat Kohli , Suresh Raina , Ajinkya Rahane , MS Dhoni ( w/c ) , Ravindra Jadeja , Ravichandran Ashwin , Mohit Sharma , Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav India have won the toss and have opted to bat Dhoni : " Having so many fans around will definitely help us and it 's the kind of boost we need to win. We will bat first. Looks like a good wicket , putting runs on the board always helps. The important point is not to think about the past. We are not thinking that we are the defending champions , what 's more important for us is to execute our plans and be at our best. It 's slightly on the drier side , slightly more dry compared to the wicket that we played Australia , but I think it will still be a good wicket and I do n't expect it to change much. We are playing three pacers and two spinners , that 's the combination that we have played with and we want to go back to it. " Misbah : " I hope we can win it today. We got our momentum back ( taking about their performance in the warm-ups ) and it was a big confidence booster for us. Wicket looks pretty good and we were also looking to bat first. Umar will keep wickets because we wanted to have an extra pacer. Unfortunately , we had to sacrifice Sarfraz. Younis Khan will open the batting with Ahmed Shehzad. He ( Yasir Shah ) is really bowling well and it 's difficult to leave him out. This is a big occasion for everyone , it 's a young team , a lot of youngsters and they are keen to do well today. It 's a good opportunity for them. " Our man Rajaraman has this to say : Dhoni and Misbah have walked into the middle of the Adelaide Oval. It 's a cauldron like atmosphere here. The supporters of both teams have streamed in. The capacity of the newly designed ground is 53,000. It is n't completely full , there are some gaps in the galleries. This match was sold out in 20 minutes , do not be surprised if the stands are packed to the rafters by the time the first ball is bowled . Pitch Report : " There is a nice little breeze. The Adelaide Oval has always been known as a batting paradise. The pitch is absolutely rock hard and it 's really , really flat. It will swing a little bit at the start but it will aid the spinners later. I think the par score is around 237 in the last 10 games here , but I think today is going to be a huge score. India need to work out what their balance of the team would be. I think they 've got to bowl well with the new ball. The wicket to me , as you said Shane , very hard , very dry , but it will have that extreme bounce. They 've got to take pace off the ball later. It 's going to swing , with the new ball and it 's going to spin later. I think Ashwin and Jadeja are going to play. Basically , we 've got an absolute road out here , " reckon Shane Warne and Brett Lee . Further inputs from Rajaraman , 'Umesh , Shami and Mohit are using tape to mark the run up. ' So it looks like that is the pace battery for India today . Dhawan : " It 's one of the biggest tournaments in the world and I am looking forward to go and enjoy myself. The wicket is really nice , it 's a true wicket , it 's got pace and bounce. I feel that with two new balls it makes the run rate a bit slow because you need to take extra risks if the ball is swinging. Once you are set , you can play your shots. " Our man at the ground Rajaraman reports that , Pakistan arrived at the ground a short while before India. The gates opened half hour ago and people are filling the stands and its a very hot afternoon here . Worried about what kind of a day it is in Adelaide today ? The players are warming up currently and it 's bright and sunny. 35 degree celsius right now and there is no rain predicted for the entire day. So we should get a brilliant game of cricket in. That 's that then . Pre-match team news , Pakistan : Umar Akmal kept wicket in both the warm-ups , so he will continue to do so. Haris Sohail may bat at 4 and bowl the 10 overs. It will be interesting to see whether Yasir Shah is picked. One of Ehsan Adil and Sohail Khan will miss out. Wahab Riaz and Mohammad Irfan are confirmed choices . Pre-match team news , India : Bhuvneshwar Kumar may not play as India do n't want to risk him. Jadeja will be the first choice over Axar Patel. It could be a toss-up between Stuart Binny and Mohit Sharma for the last spot. Dhawan and Rohit Sharma will be the preferred openers . " I think you need to focus on your game , go there and play your best. " Misbah will be inspired by Pakistan 's title victory under Imran Khan when the World Cup was last played in Australia-New Zealand in 1992 , but is burdened with a team weakened by injuries and suspensions . The Pakistan captain was not worried that his team 's opening match in the 2015 World Cup was a high-voltage encounter against India. " You have to be ready to play against any team at any time if you really want to do well in any tournament. It 's not really a question of playing India first. You need to be ready. Whenever any team comes against you , you should be ready to play well. The key is not to take anything into the ground when you are playing against India. You do n't have to worry about what 's happening outside , what 's going on in the two countries , " he said . Now Misbah 's say. " This is a chance to create history , " Misbah said on Saturday ahead of the match that will be followed by millions in both nations and around the world. " India-Pakistan is always all about pressure. The best thing we can do is just enjoy the game , enjoy the atmosphere , go there and be positive. My advice to the team is just go out there and play your natural game. That is the only way to handle pressure , " Misbah stated . " All I know is that I am asked a lot of questions about the record. Look , I am not bothered about statistics because what happened in the past will count for little in what is a prized game for all. It 's nice for fans and the media to talk about it , but for us the only thing that will matter is how we play. The important thing is to plan well and execute those plans well. I do n't know if it will be an even contest. It is hard to predict such things. " Dhoni played down repeated questions about India 's impressive 5-0 record World Cup record against Pakistan , saying what mattered more was how the team played on the given day . Captain 's thoughts before the game now. First up , it 's MS Dhoni. Dhoni said that the clash against Pakistan , which he described as a " prized game " on the cricket calendar , was an opportunity for players to transform themselves from zeroes to heroes. " There is more intensity when we play Pakistan because the game is followed by so many fans. " But I see it as a good platform for the team to perform , " the Indian captain said . Final verdict : 'It is like a shock-absorber in a car - the better it is the more it will handle the dusty roads and bouncy roads. India , at the present moment , are probably better in that front.' 'I have played a few World Cup games against Pakistan. I have played in a lot of bilateral series and tri-nation tournaments against them , but it is different when you are playing in a World Cup. On the other hand , players tend to get used to the pressure as they play day in and day out. Players from both sides are under equal pressure to perform well. Players go through peculiar thought processes which the common man from outside will not understand. They see the hype , the politics , the crowd but players are used to it. For someone like Dhoni or Kohli , or for that matter Tendulkar , Ganguly or Dravid , who have faced Pakistan before , it is going to be just another match. The first 20 minutes matter , but once you get though it , it is just another game.' 'I think India are ahead , mentally ahead of Pakistan. Yes , India have been in the country for two months , they have been battered by Australia - beaten in the Test matches , beaten in the tri-series and they have been in poor shape before the start of this game. But , tomorrow is going to be a different battle. India are not playing Australia tomorrow , but Pakistan , who come from the sub-continent and will face the same problems that India did in Australian conditions.' Sourav Ganguly writing for our site in an exclusive calls the clash 'the mother of all battles' 'Many might not agree with me , but in all previous five World Cup matches , we were rated as favorites and we ended up on losing side. This time around we are for sure not the favorites. This might help us to change the result. Who knows ? This Super Sunday we all would know about it.' 'In Sydney we could n't chase 217 runs ; in Bangalore we squandered an electrifying start of Aamir Sohail and Saeed Anwar in pursuit of 288 runs ; in Manchester again our batsmen faltered despite restricting India at 227-6 and at Centurion when our batsmen racked up 273-7 , the all star-studded pace battery of Wasim Akram , Waqar Younis and Shoaib Akhtar were shot down by Tendulkar 's brilliance.' 'If one closely look at our previous five ICC Cricket World Cup encounters against India , we did n't give up easily and it were all well contested matches. In most of these games our bowlers had done well , but it was the batting which gave us headache.' 'But having said that , I think we had our chances in Sydney ( 1992 ) , Bangalore ( 1996 ) , Manchester ( 1999 ) and even at Mohali ( 2011 ) . I ca n't find a suitable word to describe what goes wrong when we chase against India , but it 's more like a mental blockage of players on which I 'm sure Pakistan team management will be working on.' 'I believe batting first is always an advantage as batsmen tend to get under pressure while chasing in big games. India has won four of the five toss against us in ICC Cricket World Cups games and our batsmen stumbled in all four run-chases. The only toss they lost was at Centurion in 2003 but Sachin Tendulkar played one of the best innings I have seen from the master , which allowed India to chase down a 274-run target.' Inzamam-ul-Haq the former Pakistani great , reckons - in an ICC exclusive - that the India-Pakistan game is a final before the final . 'They should play two spinners in the match , and if Irfan can bowl on his speed , he can alone make the difference, ' Imran Khan said . 'If you have wickets in hand you can even chase a big score If the top order can score enough , beating India is possible, ' Imran said during the interview . 'The best batsman should start first. If Pakistan chases , Misbah should not play beyond number four.' The former captain said that Pakistan 's performance will depend on batsman as both sides have similar bowlers . 'How will I do it ? That 's what they should think. If one fears losing they will keep making mistakes, ' he said . 'They should abandon fear of losing. When they step on the ground they need to make up their mind to win, ' Imran said during an interview with a private television channel . The Pakistani newspaper Dawn has this message from legendary former skipper , Imran Khan , who said this - 'Abandon fear of losing' 'Like any genuine cricket fan , I am looking forward to a terrific game of cricket. For , winning and losing is part of any sporting battle. But , my bet is on India to win, ' Sania remarked . 'Shoaib ( Malik , her husband and former Pakistan cricket captain ) will be in India doing the expert commentary on the World Cup for two TV channels. So , I will be watching the game alone in Dubai, ' she said . 'I think any India-Pakistan sporting contest has that emotional tinge attached to it. It charges up everyone. It is actually the excitement and expectations which are really high. I think the sporting battles between India and Pakistan have been one of the best, ' both on and off the field , she felt . 'There is no question of divided loyalty. I want to go with India which has a 5-0 record against Pakistan in the World Cup. I just hope it will extend that record, ' remarked Sania Mirza , the goodwill ambassador for sports in India . Meanwhile Sania Mirza who gave an exclusive interview to the Hindu says she is betting on Team India once again . 'Pakistan , it seems , is fighting not just India but the force of its World Cup history. And with each defeat , the burden only grows heavier , the pressure more asphyxiating.' 'The next time in Mohali , Pakistan dropped Tendulkar four times before being slowly strangled in its chase of 231. Under pressure , there have been too many mistakes , too many rash decisions. Each of these matches has been closer than the scoreboard suggests , but where India has managed to keep its head , Pakistan has lost its.' 'Centurion in 2003 was probably an exception , when Pakistan was done in by an extraordinary Sachin Tendulkar innings. Waqar Younis had sent his men in to bat on winning the toss , but it did n't alter the outcome.' 'But it is n't as if those results are not interlinked at all. In 1992 , '96 and '99 , there 's a clear pattern : Pakistan fields first and then buckles miserably during the chase. In Sydney , the last eight Pakistani wickets fell for 68 runs ; in Bangalore , the last four for 17 ; and in Manchester the last five for 56.' 'Pakistan must find the weight of history oppressive five World Cup matches against the great rival and no wins. To bind five fixtures spread over some 20 years with a common thread seems silly , but the record exists and Pakistan is made aware of it time after time. It can not be a pleasant feeling.' Shreedutta Chidananda writing in the Hindu throws light on Pakistan 's inability to beat India in World Cups. 'Pakistan must find the weight of history oppressive' Before we move any further , let 's have a gander at what the newspapers and the media are saying about this epic clash . The team management have told the players that if such a breach was repeated , they will be sent home on the first available flight . Here is news that wo n't please a lot of Pakistani fans - " Eight of the Pakistan players , which also included former captain Shahid Afridi and opener Ahmed Shehzad , were fined 300 Australian dollars ( US $ 230 ) after they came late to their Sydney hotel on Sunday , " sources in the Pakistan team told AFP on condition of anonymity . It 's the batting though that has been Pakistan 's weak link. The runs still have to come from experienced hands like Younis Khan and Misbah even though Ahmed Shehzad has started to flower of late. Shahid Afridi is n't consistent as is Umar Akmal. If Pakistan are to provide any sort of threat , it 's the batting that has to start performing . The loss of Umar Gul , Junaid Khan and more importantly Saeed Ajmal robs of them of three match-winners in the bowling department. Pakistan have always been known for their bowling strength. Without the aforementioned troika , it 's left to the giant Mohammad Irfan and Wahab Riaz to provide the wickets. The emergence of Yasir Shah is a big boost to Pakistan and he is a genuine wicket-taker . But coming into the opener against India , they notched up two wins in the warm-up games against Bangladesh and England respectively. The second win was a good one as Misbah and Umar Akmal steered their side home with a big partnership chasing 251. Those two wins have given Pakistan hope on the eve of the tournament . Pakistan : Pakistan 's ODI form of late has been very ordinary. They have lost their last four series ' to Sri Lanka , Australia , New Zealand twice respectively. Two of those four losses came in their adopted home in the United Arab Emirates. One was a whitewash by Australia which included a game where Glenn Maxwell defended two off the last over. Out of their last thirteen ODIs , they have just won three. Not good signs , right ? The bowling has been way too inconsistent. Shami and Umesh have been taken for runs and Dhoni has been left with no options to tie up one end. It will be interesting to see what combination India go in with. Will it be three seamers and two spinners ? Or just the four bowlers ? Who will be the main spinner , if only one is selected ? Lots of questions and we 'll know the answers soon . The repeated failures of Shikhar Dhawan at the top has dented India. Virat Kohli , after a great Test series , seems to have gone off the boil and that has left the middle-order wobbly. Rohit Sharma made a tremendous hundred in the opening game of the tri-series , but was subsequently injured. He is the in-form batsman having made a sparkling 150 against Afghanistan as well . Recent form - India : It has been a disastrous tour for India in Australia. They did n't win a single game during the entire Test and tri-series that followed. They changed that with a win against Afghanistan in their last warm-up game which should 've given them some confidence ahead of the big clash . So lots of talk , eh ? So here is what India and Pakistan have been doing recently. It 's India 's turn first . Shahid Afridi too reckons that his side can beat India. " I am confident that this time we will change history and win this crucial game. " So will Pakistan be able to break the jinx this time ? Certainly Misbah thinks so. " We will do our best to change history , " Misbah told AFP. " I dont know why we lost all those games , maybe all those teams failed to handle the pressure in the key game. " If you look at the past five meetings in World Cups , except the 2003 clash when Sachin Tendulkar produced a batting masterclass , the other meetings have been close affairs. It was just that the Indians held their nerve at crucial moments and Pakistan lost theirs. Cue Aamer Sohail in 96 ! Even the most ardent fans of Pakistan will be scratching their heads to find an answer to this vexed puzzle . So what explains this sort of domination ? Especially when you see the overall head-to-head record between the two countries in ODIs. Played 126 , Pakistan won 72 , India won 50 with 4 no-results. Pakistan hold a healthy lead overall , yet when they play India in a World Cup game they ca n't seem to find a way to win . 5-0 ! Do n't get fooled into thinking we are talking a different sport here. It 's not a tennis scoreline. 5-0 is the stranglehold that India have on Pakistan in World Cup games. 1992 , 1996 , 1999 , 2003 and 2011. Five times Pakistan have met India and all five they have lost. Three times it was Sachin Tendulkar who was their nemesis , while it was Venkatesh Prasad in the the remaining two . Did you know ? That the tickets for this latest clash at Adelaide were sold out in 20 minutes. 20 Minutes ! Crazy stuff ! For some , a victory over their arch-rivals is enough , even if it means not going all the way and winning the ultimate prize. This shows how fickle-minded and deeply passionate a fan may be. And trust me , there are so many out of them in both countries . That 's how personally and deeply a loss can affect fans from both sides. Fair to say that an India-Pakistan clash is the biggest and most-awaited rivalry in the cricket world. You may have the Ashes and the Trans-Tasman rivalry , but nothing comes close to an India-Pakistan meeting. The facts , figures , the emotions of the fans , the jingoism , political and social overtones all make it a near unmissable experience . So how does one equate the match with all the other riders attached ? How does anyone justify or be able to quantify what an India-Pakistan clash means ? From personal experience , I can relate to an interesting incident which happened when I went to the T20 WC in Sri Lanka in 2012. India had soundly beaten Pakistan and I tried to offer my commiserations to a Pakistani fan. He just would n't even acknowledge my effort. Eventually I had to leave him alone as he was n't willing to even converse . For the fans of both countries , this is n't a cricket match , it 's more than that. A loss is taken as an insult to the nation. Who can forget those epic clashes between the two sides in the 90s at Sharjah when it was considered to be more than a cricket game. Time has passed and with it , the relations between the two countries on the field may have become less stressful , but still an India-Pakistan clash is the biggest game for the majority of folks around the world . Piyush Chawla : " Fielding in the deep , you often hear the crowd behind warning you better win this match or it wont be easy to get out of the stadium " Harbhajan Singh : " Before the match in Mohali , I could not sleep the night before , thinking what if we lose. " Shoaib Akhtar : " For many , its bigger than the World Cup " Abdul Qadir : " A final before the final for cricket fans of both countries " Sachin Tendulkar : " Results are important for followers of both countries " Sunny Gavaskar : " There is no such thing as a dead rubber when India and Pakistan are playing " Some more famous quotes on India-Pakistan rivalry Mind-boggling numbers right ? That 's how big a India-Pakistan clash is , on a cricket field. The New York Times ' Huw Richards wrote this about the rivalry - " It is as if all the feelings of the New York Yankees vs. Boston Red Sox rivalry in baseball , Barcelona vs. Real Madrid in soccer and England vs. Australia in any sport had been distilled and deepened with an extra dose of hostile geopolitics and the passions of 1.4 billion people. " Howdy folks ! It 's India-Pakistan time again. In a World Cup. Did you know this ? More than a fifth of the world 's population ( 1.5 billion viewers ) tuned in for the 2011 World Cup Semi-final cricket match between India and Pakistan. According to TV ratings firm , Initiative , a regular match ( no such thing ) between these two not-exactly-friendly neighbors attracts about 300 million viewers . Leave those fancy thoughts of India-Pakistan camaraderie or brotherhood that may be circling around in your head. That will stay there. This is India v Pakistan in a World Cup. WORLD CUP ! If anything is going to get bigger than these two fierce rivals meeting on a cricket field , please write to us and let us know. It ca n't get better or bigger than this. It simply CA N'T ! Sachin Tendulkar. Saeed Anwar. Virat Kohli. Inzamam-ul-Haq. Javed Miandad. Imran Khan. Kapil Dev. MS Dhoni. Wasim Akram. Waqar Younis and Anil Kumble. Not a bad composite India-Pakistan all-time ODI eleven , eh ? Not to forget the likes of greats like Sourav Ganguly , Rahul Dravid , Yousuf Youhana , Asif Iqbal , Saleem Malik , Shoaib Akhtar , Javagal Srinath , Zaheer Khan , Mushtaq Ahmed , Abdul Qadir , Harbhajan Singh and so many more . 11 : 45 Local Time , 01 : 15 GMT , 06 : 45 IST : India and Pakistan. Once together. Now separated. Once a single team. Now arch-rivals. So similar , yet so different. From Lahore to Ludhiana from Karachi to Kolkata , it 's cricket that unites and divides people in equal measure. When India and Pakistan meet on a cricket field , it 's an occasion that is cherished by the millions of cricket fans all over the globe. Fireworks are expected when these two fierce rivals step out to do battle . Preview by G Rajaraman There was no escaping the word pressure and , consequently , the emotion itself as thousands of Indian and Pakistani fans descended on the sleepy South Australian city of Adelaide and got ready to bring a sub-continental flavour to the Adelaide Oval when India and Pakistan strive to win full points in the Pool B contest at the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 on Sunday . Mahendra Singh Dhoni and Misbah-ul-Haq , captains of the India and Pakistan teams in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , may be masters at concealing their emotions on their field. But the hordes of fans at the final nets sessions and the inevitable questions at the media interaction reminded them of the pressure that the high-voltage contest can bring along . Dhoni and Misbah sought to underplay the pressure that can be brought to bear on the players in the sub-continental derby , though they did accept that the intensity in the India-Pakistan games rises by a few notches. It was not as if they sought to live in denial but , truth to tell , the two captains have had cricketing issues to deal with in the recent times . India 's bowling and Pakistan 's batting have not been in the pink of form and the captains , along with coaches Duncan Fletcher and Waqar Younis respectively , have spent time addressing these on a more urgent basis than worrying as much about the capacity of the players to deal with the pressure of playing in front of about 53,000 fans and against the neighbouring squad . As Dhoni pointed out , his primary concern remains the propensity of the new ball bowlers to concede boundaries in the first 10 overs. Over the past few days , they have worked on setting this right. On the long tour of Australia , Indian bowlers have struggled with hitting the right length but the team has sought to leave the defeats behind and attempt not to repeat mistakes . Pakistan are fairly fresh , having played only two ODIs in 2015 and are determined to give themselves the chance of making history with a maiden World Cup victory over India. Their bowlers give a fairly good account of themselves in these conditions and , with Waqar coaching the side , you could expect the attack to be on top of their game . Misbah and Waqar may try and exploit the perceived weakness of many Indian batsmen against the short , rising delivery by playing fast medium bowlers Mohammed Irfan , Bilawal Bhatti and Ehsan Adil and relying on Shahid Afridi to deliver efficiently in the spin department. The fifth bowler 's quota of 10 overs may be shared by Younis Khan , Haris Sohail and Ahmed Shehzad . Ideally , Pakistan must have the confidence to play legspinner Yasir Shah against India since he bowled superbly against England in the warm-up game in Sydney earlier this week. But it remains to be seen if they would expose him against India. They are more likely to use him against other teams , not as good as India against top-class legspin . Pakistan may be forced to resort to a combination of part-time bowlers to share 10 overs since their batting has n't come good as well as they would have liked. Younis , Misbah and Afridi bring a lot of experience to the table while Shehzad can demoralise bowlers and Umar Akmal is capable of effortless acceleration . With a sellout crowd promising to register the highest decibel levels known at the Adelaide Oval , you can be sure that the stage itself can be very inspirational and at once intimidating. It is unlikely , though , that the key players will let pressure get to them. On the contrary , we may get to see them feed off the pressure and deliver a great contest . Teams : Pakistan ( From ) : Ahmed Shehzad , Younis Khan , Misbah-ul-Haq ( c ) , Nasir Jamshed , Haris Sohail , Umar Akmal ( w ) , Sarfraz Ahmed , Shahid Afridi , Ehsan Adil , Yasir Shah , Mohammad Irfan , Sohaib Maqsood , Sohail Khan , Rahat Ali , Wahab Riaz India ( From ) : Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , Suresh Raina , Ambati Rayudu , MS Dhoni ( c & w ) , Stuart Binny , Ravindra Jadeja , Axar Patel , Ravichandran Ashwin , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Mohammed Shami , Mohit Sharma , Umesh Yadav Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
