Graphs Tomorrow , Zimbabwe will take on UAE at Nelson in the battle of the minnows. Folks , many thanks for your company today and we hope that you will join us tomorrow as well. On behalf of Ramakrishnan , Pradeep , Krishna , Sonali , Raju and Sriram , this is Sidhant Maheshwari signing off . Take a look at some of the interesting tweets of the day : Mazher Arshad : 105 runs is Bangladesh 's largest victory in World Cup matches. # cwc15 Mohandas Menon : This is Bangladesh 's 6th ODI win in a row since 21 Nov 2014. Have now won four of their last six WC games since 25 Feb 2011 Sanjay Manjrekar : Again like most Associate Nation teams Afghanistan more impressive with ball than bat. That 's where Ireland is different . Mashrafe Mortaza : 'First match is very important and we set the tone. It is very important for me and my team that I bowl well and I hit the right areas. We had a reasonable start today , but we collapsed at the end. Once again , Mushfiqur ( Rahim ) and Shakib ( Al Hasan ) played really well. These kind of matches always have a lot of pressure , but I am very happy that the boys adapted very well. Thank you to all the supporters as well.' Mohammad Nabi : 'First 35 overs we bowled well , especially the fast bowlers. We took quick wickets as well. Mushfiqur and Shakib played well and took them above 250. Batting-wise , we were 3/3 and it was difficult from there on. The wicket was good for batting if you played in the right manner. Thanks to the supporters , they especially came in from Melbourne , Sydney to Canberra , they came and supported the team. Also the fans back home , they watched the game on TV. So , good support for us.' Mushfiqur Rahim : 'At the end , the team won , so it is a great feeling now. I think credit also goes to the openers , they did n't get the runs , but upfront it is not that easy. Me and Shakib , we just knew that if we stay on the wicket , it was good to bat on. We just made a plan to bat till the 45th or 48th over. Thanks to the crowd , they have come all over from Australia and also back home ( talking about the support ) . My father and my uncle are also here. Hopefully , the boys will carry the momentum.' Mushfiqur Rahim is the Man of the Match for his 71 off 56 balls Skipper Mohammad Nabi came to their rescue next and along with Najibullah Zadran added 58 for the sixth wicket. However , things changed dramatically once again in the batting powerplay. Najibullah got a tough one on 17 and Nabi perished the very next ball for a well made 44. The tail-enders played a couple of good shots but were not able to hang on for long. Mashrafe Mortaza was the pick of the bowlers and scalped three wickets , giving away just 20 runs in his 9 overs. He was well supported by Shakib , who finished with two wickets as well. Overall , the bowlers made sure that Afghanistan could never really get going and remained behind the required run rate throughout their innings . Bangladesh have comfortably managed to win their first game of the World Cup by a big margin. After posting a competitive 267 on the board , they enjoyed a fantastic start with the ball as well. They reduced Afghanistan to 3 for 3 in the first three overs. Although not entirely comfortable at the crease , Nawroz Mangal and Samiullah Shenwari somehow managed to stabilize the innings for a while and shared a 62-run stand for the fourth wicket. However , both departed within a space of three overs , which pushed Afghanistan into further trouble . The players walk off the field and shake hands with each other. The Bangladeshis are delighted as they have taken their revenge for their Asia Cup loss. The Bangladeshi players are also taking a lap of honour around the ground , thanking their vociferous supporters . 42.5 Shakib to Aftab Alam , out Aftab Alam Run Out ! ! Bangladesh win by 105 runs. Aftab goes for the single after driving the ball towards cover , where the fielder dives to his left and stops the ball. He fires in the throw at the striker 's end , the non-striker did n't respond and Aftab was stranded in the middle of the wicket. Rahim takes his time and whips the bails. Aftab Alam run out ( Soumya Sarkar/Rahim ) 14 ( 12 ) [ 4s-2 6s-1 ] Shakib to Aftab Alam , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Aftab Alam is run-out and it 's all over for Afghanistan 42.4 Shakib to Aftab Alam , SIX , gives the charge this time and launches this flighted delivery over the long-on fence , it did n't come off the middle of the bat , but had enough to go the distance 42.3 Shakib to Aftab Alam , no run , gives the charge and looks to go inside-out , the ball goes off the thickish outside edge and rolls away behind square on the off-side 42.2 Shakib to Aftab Alam , no run , gives this one more air around off and the ball turns away ever so slightly , Aftab blocks 42.1 Shakib to Shapoor , 1 run , flatter from Shakib , Zadran goes back and pulls it to deep square leg 41.6 Taskin Ahmed to Shapoor , 1 run , fuller delivery outside off , Shapoor looks to drive , gets it off the toe-end of the bat and the ball runs away to third man , the batsmen take a single and Shapoor will be on strike next over Shapoor Zadran , left handed bat , comes to the crease 41.5 Taskin Ahmed to Hamid , out Caught by Anamul ! ! Another one bites the dust and that 's wicket number 9. It was full and outside off , Hamid was looking to slog it , but ends up slicing it to point , who moves to his right and takes another simple catch. Just a wicket to go for the Bangladeshis. Hamid c Anamul b Taskin Ahmed 0 ( 5 ) Taskin Ahmed to Hamid , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 41.4 Taskin Ahmed to Hamid , no run , slightly wide outside off , Hamid leaves it 41.3 Taskin Ahmed to Hamid , no run , short delivery outside off , Hamid was in two minds whether to pull it or leave it alone , in the end the ball hits the bottom edge and rolls across the pitch to the off-side 41.2 Taskin Ahmed to Hamid , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Hamid decides to let that one go through 41.1 Taskin Ahmed to Hamid , no run , on a good length and on off and middle , Hamid pushes it to the on-side off the inside half of the bat Taskin Ahmed [ 6.0-0-22-0 ] is back into the attack Hamid Hassan , right handed bat , comes to the crease 40.6 Shakib to Mirwais , out Caught by S Rahman ! ! Mirwais ' knock comes to an end. It was flighted outside off , Mirwais looks to loft it over the long-off fence , but he ca n't middle it right. He ends up giving a simple catch to the man at long-off. Mirwais c S Rahman b Shakib 10 ( 15 ) [ 6s-1 ] Shakib to Mirwais , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 40.5 Shakib to Mirwais , no run , tossed up on off , Mirwais lunges forward in defence 40.4 Shakib to Mirwais , SIX , floated on the stumps , Ashraf slogs across the line , the fielder at deep mid-wicket was well inside the rope and the ball goes over him. It just about manages to clear the fence as well 40.3 Shakib to Mirwais , no run , floated around off , Mirwais defends this time around 40.2 Shakib to Mirwais , no run , pushed through on the stumps , Mirwais pushes at it , the ball beats the inside edge and hits the pad , it was going down though 40.1 Shakib to Mirwais , 2 runs , floated around off and middle , Aftab slog sweeps it towards deep square leg , the batsmen take two before the fielder from deep mid-wicket runs to his right , slides and stops the ball The batting powerplay yielded 20/2 39.6 Mortaza to Aftab Alam , no run , Aftab was lining up for a loft over mid-off , but decides against it. He pushes this full toss to cover and decides against taking the single as well 39.5 Mortaza to Mirwais , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Mirwais gives the charge and mistimes the heave towards mid-wicket , gets to the other end with a single 39.4 Mortaza to Mirwais , no run , just short of a good length outside off , Mirwais punches it to the left of the bowler , who goes across and collects the ball 39.3 Mortaza to Mirwais , no run , in the channel outside off , Mirwais stays inside the crease and bunts it back to the bowler 39.2 Mortaza to Mirwais , no run , slightly back of a length outside off , Mirwais punches it to mid-off 39.1 Mortaza to Mirwais , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Mirwais punches it to the left of the bowler , who moves across to stop the ball 38.6 Shakib to Aftab Alam , FOUR , boundary to finish the over , it was floated just outside off , Aftab steps out of the crease and flat-bats it straight down the ground , the ball crashes into the fence on the bounce 38.5 Shakib to Aftab Alam , no run , gives this one more air on off and middle , Aftab presses forward and blocks 38.4 Shakib to Mirwais , 1 run , flatter around off , Mirwais goes on the back foot and punches it to the right of the bowler , the batsmen take an easy single 38.3 Shakib to Mirwais , no run , flighted delivery on off , Mirwais lunges forward and dead-bats it 38.2 Shakib to Mirwais , no run , quicker on middle and leg , Mirwais goes deep and punches it to mid-wicket 38.1 Shakib to Mirwais , no run , slows this one on off , Mirwais gets behind it and defends 37.6 Mortaza to Aftab Alam , no run , slower delivery this time and slightly fuller outside off , Aftab pushes it towards cover from the crease 37.5 Mortaza to Aftab Alam , no run , another short one from Mortaza , Aftab has another wild swing at it , but this time he ca n't connect and the ball goes over his bat 37.4 Mortaza to Aftab Alam , no run , bumper at the batsman , Aftab ducks under it 37.3 Mortaza to Aftab Alam , FOUR , slightly wide outside off , Alam just goes hard at it and manages to get it over cover , the ball runs away to the fence and Aftab is off the mark 37.2 Mortaza to Aftab Alam , no run , full and on the stumps , Alam defends Aftab Alam , right handed bat , comes to the crease 37.1 Mortaza to Nabi , out Caught by Soumya Sarkar ! ! Two in two balls for Bangladesh. Now , Mortaza takes his third wicket of the innings. It was slightly fuller and outside off , Nabi goes for the loft , but does n't get the elevation nor the timing right. He ends up giving a simple catch to the man at mid-off. Nabi c Soumya Sarkar b Mortaza 44 ( 43 ) [ 4s-5 ] Mortaza to Nabi , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Mirwais Ashraf , right handed bat , comes to the crease 36.6 Shakib to Najibullah , out Lbw ! ! Shakib gives this one more air outside off and gets it to turn back into the batsman , who was looking to tuck it through the on-side , he fails to connect with the ball and is rapped on the pad. The umpire , after thinking about it , gives it out , much to everyone 's surprise. Hawk-Eye showed that the impact was umpire 's call and the ball was hitting middle. Because the on-field umpire gave him out , the decision is upheld For me though , it looked as if the impact was millimetres outside off and the batsman was unlucky there. Najibullah lbw b Shakib 17 ( 34 ) [ 4s-1 ] Shakib to Najibullah , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Najibullah has been given out lbw. He has decided to review the decision. The impact looked outside off , but wait a minute , Hawk-Eye shows the impact to be umpire 's call. He has to go and Najibullah must not be happy with that decision 36.5 Shakib to Nabi , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Nabi drives it to cover off the front foot , the batsman takes on the throw and manages to reach the non-striker 's end in time 36.4 Shakib to Nabi , no run , floated on off and middle , Nabi leans forward and blocks 36.3 Shakib to Najibullah , 1 run , drifting on the pads , Zadran helps it behind square and the batsmen take a quick run 36.2 Shakib to Nabi , 1 run , pushed through just outside off , Nabi goes across and punches it to long-on 36.1 Shakib to Nabi , 2 runs , flatter on the stumps , Nabi goes deep in the crease and punches it wide of long-on , the batsmen take two before the fielder from long-on gets around Shakib Al Hasan [ 5.0-0-18-0 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Mortaza to Najibullah , no run , on a good length and on middle stump , Zadran pushes it into the off-side with an open face 35.5 Mortaza to Nabi , 1 run , another slower delivery around off , Nabi goes across and turns it past square leg , the batsmen cross over 35.4 Mortaza to Nabi , no run , slower delivery outside off , Nabi leans forward and drives it to cover-point 35.3 Mortaza to Nabi , FOUR , good shot from Nabi , it was on a good length and around off , Nabi dances down the track and lofts it over wide mid-off and the ball runs away to the fence , the fielder was inside the circle and hence , it was a good shot 35.2 Mortaza to Nabi , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Nabi pushes it into the off-side and says 'No ' for the single 35.1 Mortaza to Nabi , no run , on a good length and outside off , Nabi makes room and looks to cut it hard , the ball did n't bounce as much as he expected and goes under the bat and through to the keeper Mashrafe Mortaza [ 6.0-2-10-2 ] is back into the attack Time for the batting powerplay 34.6 Rubel to Najibullah , no run , slower ball from Rubel , Zadran dabs this one towards point and was looking for the single there , his captain sends him back as the fielder was close to the ball 34.5 Rubel to Najibullah , no run , angles this one across off , Zadran backs away and has a wild swing at it , drags it back onto the pad off the inside edge 34.4 Rubel to Nabi , 1 run , on a good length and on middle stump line , Nabi stays inside the crease and drops it in front of cover-point , the batsmen take a quick run 34.3 Rubel to Nabi , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Nabi opens the face of the bat and pushes it towards point 34.2 Rubel to Nabi , FOUR , back-to-back boundaries for the Afghani captain , it was a poor delivery from Rubel , full and on the pads , Nabi just tickles it and the ball runs away to the fine leg fence in no time 34.1 Rubel to Nabi , FOUR , first boundary after the drinks break. It was short and at the batsman , who had backed away , he pulls it to the cow corner fence and the ball runs away Time for drinks. Afghanistan are struggling here. Despite Shenwari and Mangal putting on a 50-run stand , Afghanistan 's scoring rate has been very poor and they need 151 runs to win now. It 's a tough ask considering that they only have 5 wickets in hand. If they pull this off , it would be some batting at the fag end of the innings. Can they pull off an improbable win here ? 33.6 Shakib to Nabi , 1 run , Nabi gives the charge and drills it uppishly past the non-striker , his partner had to duck for cover and the batsman take an easy single 33.5 Shakib to Nabi , no run , tossed up on off , Nabi lunges forward in defence 33.4 Shakib to Nabi , FOUR , pushed through outside leg , Nabi goes down on one knee and sweeps it behind square , the fielder at short fine leg could only watch the ball race away to the fence 33.3 Shakib to Nabi , no run , floated up on the stumps , Nabi gives the charge and looks to drive , gets and inside edge onto the pad and the ball rolls away into the off-side 33.2 Shakib to Najibullah , 1 run , flatter outside off , Zadran pushes at it , the ball goes towards cover off the outside half of the bat , the batsmen pinch a quick run 33.1 Shakib to Nabi , 1 run , on middle and leg , Nabi goes back and works it through mid-wicket for a single Shakib Al Hasan [ 4.0-0-11-0 ] is back into the attack Shakib comes back into the attack , replacing Sarkar. He will start from round the wicket 32.6 Rubel to Najibullah , no run , 139.3kph bumper from Rubel , Zadran ducks under it and lets it pass 32.5 Rubel to Najibullah , no run , just short of a good length and on off , Zadran gets behind the line and blocks it with a straight bat 32.4 Rubel to Najibullah , 2 runs , on a good length and outside off , Zadran makes room and cuts it past backward point for a couple , the third man fielder tidies up 32.3 Rubel to Najibullah , no run , angling away slightly wide outside off , Zadran flashes at it , but ca n't connect and the keeper collects 32.2 Rubel to Nabi , 1 run , back of a length delivery around off , Nabi clears the front leg and swings across the line , the batsmen take a single as the ball rolls away to deep mid-wicket 32.1 Rubel to Nabi , 2 runs , short delivery outside off , Nabi goes for the pull after coming down the track , gets a top-edge that goes fine towards the third man region , the batsmen take two before the fielder gets around Rubel Hossain [ 4.0-0-13-1 ] is back into the attack 31.6 Soumya Sarkar to Nabi , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , Nabi pulls , but ca n't get it off the middle of the bat , Shakib at deep mid-wicket runs forward to his right , but the ball bounces in front of him 31.5 Soumya Sarkar to Nabi , no run , yorker just outside off , Nabi jams it out towards cover 31.4 Soumya Sarkar to Najibullah , 1 run , fuller in length and on the pads , Zadran flicks it in the air over square leg and gets to the other end 31.3 Soumya Sarkar to Najibullah , no run , on a good length and on off , Zadran leans forward and defends it into the off-side 31.2 Soumya Sarkar to Nabi , 1 run , fuller on middle stump line , Nabi drives it down to long-on 31.1 Soumya Sarkar to Nabi , no run , full toss outside off , Nabi backs away and drives it to mid-off 30.6 Mahmudullah to Nabi , 1 run , touch flatter and on the stumps , Nabi goes deep and punches it to the right of the bowler , the fielder from mid-wicket runs across and puts in the dive , but he ca n't prevent the single as the ball rolls away to long-on 30.5 Mahmudullah to Nabi , no run , gives this one more air around off , Nabi pushes it towards point off the front foot 30.4 Mahmudullah to Najibullah , 1 run , slower delivery drifting onto the pads , Zadran works it to square leg for a single 30.3 Mahmudullah to Najibullah , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Zadran knocks it to cover 30.2 Mahmudullah to Nabi , 3 runs , floated on off , Zadran goes down one one knee and paddles it fine , the short fine leg fielder gives chase and hauls the ball back in before the boundary , the batsmen take three , 100 up for Afghanistan as well 30.1 Mahmudullah to Najibullah , 1 run , flatter and outside off , Zadran goes deep in the crease and cuts it to sweeper cover 29.6 Soumya Sarkar to Nabi , no run , short and wide from Sarkar , Nabi gets back and misses the cut 29.5 Soumya Sarkar to Najibullah , 1 run , shuffles across and tucks it off the pads through backward square leg Rubel is back on the field 29.4 Soumya Sarkar to Najibullah , no run , fuller and outside off , Najibullah drives and finds the fielder at point 29.3 Soumya Sarkar to Najibullah , no run , shuffles across and turns it behind square on the leg-side 29.2 Soumya Sarkar to Najibullah , no run , length delivery outside off , Najibullah drives it hard towards cover-point 29.1 Soumya Sarkar to Najibullah , no run , length delivery on middle , Najibullah blocks it off the front foot , the ball rolls towards cover Soumya Sarkar [ 1.0-0-9-0 ] is back into the attack 28.6 Mahmudullah to Nabi , FOUR , full and good width on that one , Nabi comes on the front foot and powerfully drives it to the deep backward point fence 28.5 Mahmudullah to Najibullah , 1 run , makes room and cuts it to sweeper cover for a comfortable single 28.4 Mahmudullah to Najibullah , no run , gets forward and pushes it to the right of the bowler 28.3 Mahmudullah to Najibullah , no run , touch short from Mahmudullah , Najibullah backs away and cuts it towards point 28.2 Mahmudullah to Nabi , 1 run , flatter on off , Nabi moves across and turns it towards mid-wicket 28.1 Mahmudullah to Nabi , no run , shuffles across and wrists it behind square on the leg-side 27.6 S Rahman to Najibullah , no run , offers another front foot defence 27.5 S Rahman to Najibullah , no run , comes on the front foot and defends it back to the bowler 27.4 S Rahman to Najibullah , no run , flighted delivery on off , Najibullah defends 27.3 S Rahman to Najibullah , 2 runs , gets back and pulls , finds the fielder at deep mid-wicket this time 27.2 S Rahman to Nabi , 1 run , gets forward and drives it hard to sweeper cover 27.1 S Rahman to Najibullah , 1 run , poor short delivery to start off from Sabbir , Najibullah gets back and mistimes the pull to long-on Sabbir Rahman , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 26.6 Mahmudullah to Najibullah , 1 run , touch short and outside off , Najibullah cuts it off the back foot to sweeper cover 26.5 Mahmudullah to Najibullah , FOUR , nicely done by Najibullah ! He has timed this well , gets down on one knee and drags the sweep from outside off to the fine leg fence 26.4 Mahmudullah to Najibullah , no run , offers a solid front foot defence 26.3 Mahmudullah to Najibullah , no run , leans forward and defends it towards the bowler 26.2 Mahmudullah to Nabi , 1 run , goes on the back foot and punches it to long-off 26.1 Mahmudullah to Nabi , no run , gets forward and defends it back to the bowler 26.1 Mahmudullah to Nabi , wide , slides it down leg , Nabi does not connect with the glance 25.6 Taskin Ahmed to Najibullah , no run , good length ball around off , Najibullah defends it back 25.5 Taskin Ahmed to Najibullah , no run , length delivery , angled across , Najibullah gets forward and pushes it at but is beaten Najibullah Zadran , left handed bat , comes to the crease 25.4 Taskin Ahmed to Shenwari , out Shenwari Run Out ! ! 1 run completed. It was a back of a length delivery from Taskin , Shenwari shuffles across to his right and short-arm jabs it to fine leg , Sabbir runs across and gets to the ball , fires the throw at the striker 's end as the batsmen were taking the second run. Mushfiqur does well to collect the ball and whips the bails in an instant. Shenwari dived in an attempt to get back but he fell just short. Shenwari run out ( S Rahman/Rahim ) 42 ( 75 ) [ 4s-2 ] Taskin Ahmed to Shenwari , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Third umpire has been pressed into service. Shenwari is the man in question. Bangladesh are quite confident and they 've got their man. Shenwari is short of his crease. OUT flashes on the big screen 25.3 Taskin Ahmed to Shenwari , no run , back of a length around off , Shenwari gets forward and defends it towards cover 25.2 Taskin Ahmed to Shenwari , FOUR , full on off , Shenwari picks it up well , hammers it to the long-on fence for the first boundary in 10 overs 25.1 Taskin Ahmed to Shenwari , no run , back of a length and outside off , Shenwari bunts it towards point 24.6 Mahmudullah to Nabi , no run , presses forward and defends it with an angled bat 24.5 Mahmudullah to Shenwari , 1 run , gets down on one knee and drags the sweep from outside off to deep square leg 24.4 Mahmudullah to Nabi , 1 run , moves across and works it off the pads to deep square leg 24.3 Mahmudullah to Nabi , no run , stays back and looks to work it towards square leg , misses and is rapped on the pads. Loud appeal from Mahmudullah for lbw but that was easily sliding down leg 24.2 Mahmudullah to Shenwari , 1 run , moves across and clips it through backward square leg 24.1 Mahmudullah to Nabi , 1 run , slower through the air on middle , Nabi punches it softly towards long-on 23.6 Taskin Ahmed to Nabi , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Nabi gets back and drags the pull , mistimes it to deep square leg , it was in the air for a while but falls well short of the fielder 23.5 Taskin Ahmed to Shenwari , 1 run , comes on the front foot to this good length ball and drives it to sweeper cover 23.4 Taskin Ahmed to Shenwari , no run , back of a length and coming back in a touch , Shenwari punch-drives it to cover 23.3 Taskin Ahmed to Shenwari , no run , length delivery around off , Shenwari gets forward and taps it towards cover 23.2 Taskin Ahmed to Nabi , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Nabi punches it off the back foot to third man 23.1 Taskin Ahmed to Shenwari , 1 run , shuffles across and clips it to mid-wicket Taskin Ahmed [ 4.0-0-13-0 ] is back into the attack 22.6 Mahmudullah to Nabi , no run , continues to offer a solid front foot defence 22.5 Mahmudullah to Nabi , no run , presses forward and defends it back Mohammad Nabi , right handed bat , comes to the crease Looks like Rubel has twisted his calf muscle and he has gone off the field . 22.4 Mahmudullah to Nawroz , out Caught by Rubel ! ! Outstanding catch by Rubel at deep backward square leg. He has tumbled awkwardly and the physio comes in straightaway to have a look at him. Nawroz gets down on one knee and slog sweeps it powerfully , he had middled that but ends up finding the fielder. Rubel rushes in initially but realizes that he had misjudged it , did well to run back , timed his jump properly and grabbed it with both hands before landing badly on the ground. Nawroz c Rubel b Mahmudullah 27 ( 57 ) [ 4s-1 ] Mahmudullah to Nawroz , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 22.3 Mahmudullah to Shenwari , 1 run , drifts it on middle , Shenwari shuffles across and pulls it to deep mid-wicket 22.2 Mahmudullah to Shenwari , no run , flighted and outside off , Shenwari drives it to cover 22.1 Mahmudullah to Shenwari , no run , gets forward and works it into the leg-side , wants a single but turns back as the mid-wicket fielder cuts it off 21.6 Shakib to Nawroz , no run , shuffles across and drives it off the inside half of the bat towards mid-on 21.5 Shakib to Nawroz , no run , gets forward and works it towards short mid-wicket 21.4 Shakib to Nawroz , no run , stays back and defends it into the leg-side 21.3 Shakib to Shenwari , 1 run , gets forward and drives it to sweeper cover 21.2 Shakib to Shenwari , no run , shuffles across and manages to tuck it behind square on the leg-side 21.1 Shakib to Shenwari , no run , drifts it on middle and leg , Shenwari defends it towards mid-on Shakib Al Hasan [ 3.0-0-10-0 ] is back into the attack 20.6 Mahmudullah to Nawroz , no run , shortish and outside off , Nawroz backs away for the cut but is beaten as the ball stays low 20.5 Mahmudullah to Nawroz , no run , comes down the track and drives it towards mid-wicket 20.4 Mahmudullah to Nawroz , no run , outside off , Nawroz dabs it behind point 20.3 Mahmudullah to Nawroz , no run , flighted on off , Nawroz gets behind the line and defends 20.2 Mahmudullah to Nawroz , no run , shortish , Nawroz stays back and punches it to cover 20.1 Mahmudullah to Shenwari , leg byes , 1 run , turns it off the pads behind square , they scamper through for a brisk run as the throw comes in at the striker 's end , however , it was a wayward throw and Nawroz makes it back successfully 19.6 Soumya Sarkar to Shenwari , 1 run , drives this widish delivery square of the wicket for a comfortable single 19.5 Soumya Sarkar to Shenwari , 2 runs , short of length and wide of off , Shenwari makes room and cuts it to third man for a brace 19.4 Soumya Sarkar to Nawroz , 1 run , length delivery outside off , Nawroz drives it square of the wicket 19.3 Soumya Sarkar to Nawroz , 2 runs , back of a length and outside off , Nawroz cuts it to point , Shenwari was backing up too much and Anamul fires a throw at the bowler 's end , Shenwari gets back in time before the throw disturbed the stumps. The ball then ricochets away towards the deep mid-wicket boundary and they pick up two Third umpire has been called out for a run-out chance. Shenwari is well in , so an easy call for the ump . 19.2 Soumya Sarkar to Nawroz , 2 runs , outside off , lures Nawroz on the front foot and he drives it to deep extra cover for a couple Mortaza seems a bit agitated. He is ordering his fielders around 19.1 Soumya Sarkar to Shenwari , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Shenwari punches it to sweeper cover Soumya Sarkar , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 18.6 Mahmudullah to Shenwari , 1 run , gets down on one knee and drags the sweep to deep backward square leg 18.5 Mahmudullah to Shenwari , no run , gets forward and works this fullish ball off the inside half of the bat to the right of the bowler 18.4 Mahmudullah to Nawroz , 1 run , moves across and wrists this flatter delivery through backward square leg 18.3 Mahmudullah to Shenwari , 1 run , works it towards long-on for a single 18.2 Mahmudullah to Shenwari , no run , presses on the front foot and drives it to cover-point 18.1 Mahmudullah to Shenwari , no run , full around off , Shenwari moves across and pushes it to the right of the bowler 17.6 Shakib to Shenwari , 1 run , flatter delivery around off , Shenwari stays back and punches it to long-off 17.5 Shakib to Shenwari , no run , looks to defend a flighted delivery on off , gets an inside edge towards square leg 17.4 Shakib to Shenwari , no run , drifts it on leg , Shenwari turns it behind square 17.3 Shakib to Shenwari , no run , pushes it back to the bowler once again 17.2 Shakib to Shenwari , no run , stays on the back foot and punches it back to the bowler 17.1 Shakib to Nawroz , 1 run , shortish and just outside off , Nawroz makes room and guides it square of the wicket 16.6 Mahmudullah to Nawroz , 1 run , shuffles to his right and wrists it to square leg for another single 16.5 Mahmudullah to Nawroz , no run , moves across a touch and drives it to the right of the bowler , the fielder from mid-wicket , runs and dives to his left and makes a fine stop 16.4 Mahmudullah to Shenwari , 1 run , full on off , Shenwari gets forward and drives it to long-on 16.3 Mahmudullah to Nawroz , 1 run , drifts it around leg , Nawroz works it to long-on for a comfortable single 16.2 Mahmudullah to Shenwari , 1 run , shuffles across and turns it to short mid-wicket 16.1 Mahmudullah to Shenwari , no run , flighted on off , Shenwari defends it back to the right of the bowler Mahmudullah , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Drinks are on the field now. After being 3/3 at one stage , Afghanistan have somehow managed to recover , putting up a 41-run stand for the fourth wicket. The Bangladeshi bowlers are bowling good lines and lengths and the Afghan batsmen have not looked comfortable out there. They have survived a few close chances and will have to work even harder to keep the Bangladeshi bowlers at bay . 15.6 Shakib to Nawroz , no run , tossed up on off , Nawroz blocks it solidly off the front foot 15.5 Shakib to Shenwari , 1 run , comes forward and softly drives it towards long-off 15.4 Shakib to Shenwari , no run , stays on the back foot and punches it to cover 15.3 Shakib to Shenwari , no run , drifts it onto the pads , Shenwari wrists it to square leg 15.2 Shakib to Shenwari , no run , flighted around off , Shenwari presses forward and pushes it to point , straight to the fielder 15.1 Shakib to Nawroz , 1 run , comes down the track and drives it to long-on for a comfortable single 14.6 Taskin Ahmed to Shenwari , no run , short of a length and angling away from outside off , left alone 14.5 Taskin Ahmed to Shenwari , no run , on a good length and just outside off , punched towards mid-off , that was played with a straight bat 14.4 Taskin Ahmed to Nawroz , 1 run , dropped by Shakib at third man , Bangladesh 's best batsman and bowler , but perhaps not the best fielder. This was short and just outside off , Nawroz waits on it , opens the face of the bat and runs it towards third man. Shakib runs a long way across to his left , puts in the dive , takes the catch , but the ball pops out when his elbow hit the ground 14.3 Taskin Ahmed to Nawroz , FOUR , that should give Nawroz some confidence , this was banged in short and just outside off , Mangal rocks back , rolls his wrists and pulls it in front of mid-wicket for a boundary 14.2 Taskin Ahmed to Shenwari , 1 run , Taskin keeps it short and wide outside off , punched away off the backfoot towards deep cover , just a single 14.1 Taskin Ahmed to Nawroz , 1 run , back of a length and well outside off , punched off the back-foot towards deep cover , just a single 13.6 Shakib to Nawroz , 1 run , flatter and on Nawroz 's pads , flicked away backward of square on the on-side for a single 13.5 Shakib to Nawroz , 2 runs , Shakib drifts one fuller and wider outside off , driven past cover for a couple of runs 13.4 Shakib to Nawroz , 2 runs , that 's nicely done by Nawroz , slower and on the stumps , he gets down , uses the pace on the ball and paddles it past the keeper , good enough for a brace 13.3 Shakib to Nawroz , no run , pushed through by Shakib , Nawroz gets forward and drives it towards short mid-wicket 13.2 Shakib to Nawroz , no run , flighted and just outside off , Nawroz gets a good stride forward and blocks 13.1 Shakib to Shenwari , 1 run , tossed up and on Shenwari 's pads , clipped away behind square on the on-side for a single Shakib Al Hasan , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 12.6 Taskin Ahmed to Shenwari , 1 run , back of a length and well outside off , punched away off the backfoot , the man at sweeper cover gets across quickly and keeps them down to a single 12.5 Taskin Ahmed to Nawroz , 1 run , short of a length and well outside off , cracked away behind square on the off-side for a single 12.4 Taskin Ahmed to Shenwari , 1 run , Rahim almost pulled off a stunner ! This was banged in short by Taskin , Shenwari took his eyes off the ball as he ducked into it , kept his bat hanging like a periscope , the ball grazes the top-edge , loops high and goes towards short fine , Rahim ran all the way , puts in the dive , but the ball drops just wide of him 12.3 Taskin Ahmed to Nawroz , 1 run , width on offer from Taskin , cracked square on the off-side past backward point , there 's a man in the deep , just a single 12.2 Taskin Ahmed to Nawroz , no run , that goes past the outside edge once again , Nawroz is struggling , this was pitched up and nipped away off the seam , Nawroz pokes at that and nearly edges it through to the keeper 12.1 Taskin Ahmed to Nawroz , no run , short and angling away from well outside off , Nawroz went chasing after that and missed 11.6 Mortaza to Shenwari , no run , that 's an excellent ball , Shenwari made it look even better with his clumsy footwork , this was banged in short and came back with the angle , Shenwari went nowhere , pushes his bat in front of his hands and just about manages to fend it away towards the off-side 11.5 Mortaza to Shenwari , no run , fraction fuller and just outside off , Shenwari gets well forward and drives it towards mid-off 11.4 Mortaza to Shenwari , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Shenwari was n't in any position , lunges forward at the last moment and blocks it 11.3 Mortaza to Shenwari , no run , the slower ball from Mortaza , Shenwari went hard on the drive , mistimes it back towards the bowler 11.2 Mortaza to Shenwari , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Shenwari closes the face of the bat and gets an inside edge on the drive , the ball rolls towards mid-on 11.1 Mortaza to Shenwari , no run , another bouncer , this time by Mortaza , Shenwari ducks underneath it and lets it go 10.6 Taskin Ahmed to Nawroz , no run , tad fuller and holding its line outside off , Nawroz shuffles across , lifts his bat and lets it go 10.5 Taskin Ahmed to Shenwari , 1 run , short and wide from Taskin , Shenwari hops across , gets on top of the bounce and cuts it over point for a single 10.4 Taskin Ahmed to Shenwari , no run , tad fuller and on off , Shenwari gets forward and defends it towards mid-off 10.3 Taskin Ahmed to Shenwari , no run , tad fuller and on off , Shenwari gets forward and drives it towards mid-off 10.2 Taskin Ahmed to Shenwari , no run , back of the length and just outside off , punched with an angled bat towards point 10.1 Taskin Ahmed to Shenwari , no run , Taskin bangs one short and well outside off , left alone , called as one bouncer for the over 9.6 Mortaza to Shenwari , 1 run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Shenwari is happy to stay back , punches it in front of mid-off and calls for a quick single 9.5 Mortaza to Shenwari , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Shenwari gets forward and drives it towards mid-off 9.4 Mortaza to Shenwari , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Shenwari prods across and defends it back towards the bowler 9.3 Mortaza to Shenwari , FOUR , the first boundary for Afghanistan , this was full and wide , a real floaty half-volley from Mortaza , Shenwari was hanging on the back-foot , he has to reach out in the end , manages enough bat to rifle it over extra cover 9.2 Mortaza to Shenwari , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Shenwari gets behind the line and angles it towards point 9.1 Mortaza to Shenwari , no run , appeal for LBW , but the angle was taking it down leg , Mortaza came from wide of the crease and got this one to angle back in sharply , Shenwari was falling over on the flick and missed Mashrafe Mortaza [ 4.0-1-5-2 ] is back into the attack 8.6 Taskin Ahmed to Nawroz , no run , full and on Nawroz 's pads , he presses across and defends it towards mid-on 8.5 Taskin Ahmed to Nawroz , no run , short and wide from Nawroz , he throws his bat at that and misses , this is poor batting from the former captain 8.4 Taskin Ahmed to Nawroz , no run , this is much closer from Taskin , short of a length and a hint of nibble away from off , Nawroz prods at that and is beaten 8.3 Taskin Ahmed to Nawroz , no run , short and wide from Taskin , Nawroz 's eyes lit up as he went for the cut , misses by a long way 8.2 Taskin Ahmed to Shenwari , 1 run , full and angling back into Shenwari , nudges it towards mid-on. The fielder makes a direct hit at the bowler 's end , quite unnecessary , Nawroz was well in. He ends up conceding a run as the ball rolls away wide of mid-off 8.1 Taskin Ahmed to Shenwari , no run , good pace from Taskin , hits the bat hard as Shenwari went back , the ball rolls towards short cover Taskin Ahmed , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Change of bowling , Taskin replaces Mortaza 7.6 Rubel to Shenwari , 1 run , fuller length delivery and shaping away further , Shenwari throws his bat at that and slices it behind square on the off-side for a single 7.5 Rubel to Shenwari , 2 runs , that 's much better from Shenwari , gets behind a length ball and punches it square past point. Two men give chase and haul the ball back , the batsmen are just happy with a couple 7.5 Rubel to Shenwari , wide , the bumper from Rubel , but it 's too short and too high , wide called 7.4 Rubel to Shenwari , no run , fuller length delivery and a hint of wobble across Shenwari , there 's not much footwork from the batsman as he stabs it towards cover 7.3 Rubel to Nawroz , 1 run , back of a length and well outside off , dabbed away towards third man for a single 7.2 Rubel to Nawroz , no run , on a good length and a hint of shape away from the right-hander , Nawroz moved across his stumps , lifts his bat and lets it go 7.1 Rubel to Nawroz , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Nawroz prods across and pushes it back towards the bowler 6.6 Mortaza to Nawroz , 1 run , edged ! This was full and wide , looking to lure Nawroz into the drive , he obliges , throws his bat at that and gets a thick edge past second slip , there 's a third man in place , just a single 6.5 Mortaza to Nawroz , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Nawroz stays back and defends it with an angled bat 6.4 Mortaza to Nawroz , no run , Mortaza keeps it full and gets it to shape away from outside off , Nawroz is happy to let it go by 6.3 Mortaza to Nawroz , no run , this is even better from Mortaza , tad fuller and shapes away before straightening at the last moment , Mangal prods down the wrong line and is beaten 6.2 Mortaza to Nawroz , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Nawroz gets half-a-stride forward as he defends it with soft hands 6.1 Mortaza to Nawroz , no run , the ball is jagging around under the lights , this was pitched up in that sixth stump channel and nips away , Nawroz was rooted to his crease as he pushed forward , the ball whizzes past the outside edge 5.6 Rubel to Shenwari , 2 runs , short of a length and on Shenwari 's pads , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a couple of runs 5.5 Rubel to Shenwari , no run , the bumper from Rubel , Shenwari ducks underneath it and lets it go 5.4 Rubel to Shenwari , no run , fuller and just outside off , Shenwari waits on it and defends it back towards the bowler 5.3 Rubel to Shenwari , no run , Rubel keeps it full and just outside off , Shenwari gets behind the line and blocks it towards point 5.2 Rubel to Shenwari , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , left alone 5.1 Rubel to Shenwari , 2 runs , tad fuller and holding its line outside off , Shenwari gets behind the line and finds the gap past point , comes back for the second run 4.6 Mortaza to Nawroz , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , Mangal gets behind the line and defends it towards cover 4.5 Mortaza to Shenwari , 1 run , Mortaza finds the edge again , Shenwari was pushing at one that left him after pitching outside off , second slip dives to his right but ca n't make a clean stop , allows a single to be taken 4.4 Mortaza to Shenwari , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , Shenwari does n't need to play at those , left alone 4.3 Mortaza to Nawroz , 1 run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , Nawroz pushes at that and gets a thick edge towards third man 4.2 Mortaza to Nawroz , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended with a straight bat 4.1 Mortaza to Nawroz , no run , that 's an excellent channel from Mortaza , full and a hint of shape away from outside off , Mangal is lured into the drive and misses 3.6 Rubel to Shenwari , 2 runs , length delivery angling into the pads , Shenwari clips it through mid-wicket , there was a slight misfield that allows the batsmen to come back for the second 3.5 Rubel to Shenwari , no run , tad fuller and shaping away from outside off , easy leave for the batsman 3.4 Rubel to Nawroz , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Nawroz rides with the bounce and dabs it behind square on the off-side for a brace 3.3 Rubel to Nawroz , no run , another short ball from Rubel , the line is well outside off as well , Nawroz goes for an ambitious pull and missed , this is poor cricket so far from the Afghanis 3.2 Rubel to Nawroz , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Nawroz shuffled across on the cut , there 's no bounce on the ball and it beats the bottom edge 3.1 Rubel to Nawroz , no run , loud shout for a caught behind , but there 's no bat on that , lousy technique from Mangal , this was short and reared onto the batsman , he was in no position on the pull , the ball clips the flap of the pads on the way to the keeper Samiullah Shenwari , right handed bat , comes to the crease 2.6 Mortaza to Stanikzai , out Caught by Mahmudullah ! ! Edged and caught ! Disaster for Afghanistan. This is poor cricket from Stanikzai , fuller length delivery and holding its line outside off , Stanikzai pushed from his crease , there was very little foot movement there , the outside edge is found and it goes at a good height to Mahmudullah at 1st slip. He grabs at the ball , it bobbles in the air and he manages to hold on to it in his second attempt. Afghanistan have been reduced to 3/3. Stanikzai c Mahmudullah b Mortaza 1 ( 7 ) Mortaza to Stanikzai , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 2.5 Mortaza to Stanikzai , no run , fuller length delivery and on the off-stump channel , Stanikzai gets back and across as he pushes it towards mid-on 2.4 Mortaza to Stanikzai , no run , that 's a good channel from Mortaza , fuller and just outside off , Stanikzai gets solidly behind the line and defends it 2.3 Mortaza to Stanikzai , no run , Mortaza keeps it full and in that channel outside off , Stanikzai presses across and drives it towards cover 2.2 Mortaza to Stanikzai , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Stanikzai shuffles across and nudges it towards mid-on 2.1 Mortaza to Stanikzai , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , Stanikzai gets behind the line and blocks it back towards the bowler 1.6 Rubel to Nawroz , no run , tad fuller and on off , Nawroz prods across and defends it with a straight bat 1.5 Rubel to Nawroz , no run , back of a length and in that channel outside off , Mangal hops across in his crease and defends it 1.4 Rubel to Nawroz , no run , tad fuller and shaping away from outside off , Mangal covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 1.3 Rubel to Nawroz , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Mangal shuffles across and defends it towards the off-side 1.2 Rubel to Stanikzai , 1 run , Rubel goes for the wide yorker , Stanikzai reaches out for the drive , gets a bottom edge , Rahim dives across to his right and gets a hand onto it , the ball rolls away behind the keeper. Stanikzai is off the mark with a single Asghar Stanikzai , right handed bat , comes to the crease Three slips and a gully in place 1.1 Rubel to Zazai , out Lbw ! ! Rubel strikes first ball ! This was pitched up and nipped in from a length , Zazai was shuffling across on the clip , is beaten for pace and is struck on the pads , the impact was around off , the ball would have crashed into the off-stump. Umpire Davis lifts the dreaded finger. Zazai has a long chat with his partner and decides against reviewing it. Replays suggest that the impact was around off and it was hitting the top of the off-stump. Zazai lbw b Rubel 1 ( 5 ) Rubel to Zazai , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Zazai has been given out LBW. He is n't reviewing Rubel Hossain , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Nawroz Mangal , right handed bat , comes to the crease 0.6 Mortaza to Ahmadi , out Caught&Bowled ! ! Afghanistan have been dented early ! Mortaza has struck in his first over. He shortened his length and angled one onto Ahmadi 's pads , he was looking to work it towards the on-side , closes the face of the bat and gets a leading edge. Mortaza calls for the catch , runs across to his left and completes the dolly. Not the start the Afghans were hoping for. Ahmadi c and b Mortaza 1 ( 2 ) Mortaza to Ahmadi , THATS OUT ! ! Caught&Bowled ! ! 0.5 Mortaza to Zazai , 1 run , tad fuller and shaping away from outside off , Zazai leans forward , plays with an open face and guides it towards third run 0.4 Mortaza to Zazai , no run , on a good length and shaping away from off , Zazai is happy to let it go 0.3 Mortaza to Zazai , no run , Mortaza shortens his length and just gets it to shape away , that stayed a tad low as well , Zazai was looking to dab it down towards third man and missed 0.2 Mortaza to Zazai , no run , tad fuller and angling onto Zazai 's pads , flicked away towards mid-wicket , Ahmadi was backing up. The fielder has a shy and misses 0.1 Mortaza to Ahmadi , 1 run , short and wide from Mortaza , Ahmadi gets on top of the bounce and cuts it down towards third man for a single , the fielder at gully could n't stop it cleanly as he got a hand onto it Ahmadi and Zazai are at the crease. Ahmadi is on strike. Mortaza will open the attack A slip and a gully in place as Mashrafe steams in. . Welcome back.. Afghanistan started and ended well with the ball , but allowed Shakib and Rahim to build a 114-run stand for the fifth wicket - the highest partnership for any wicket for Bangladesh in a World Cup match. That helped Bangladesh post a more than competitive 267 from their allotted 50 overs. Afghanistan 's batting is their weaker link. Can they put up a good show and cause a surprise ? However , Mohammad Nabi 's bowlers came back strongly in the death overs , picking up 6 wickets in the last 6 overs to stem the run flow. Mirwais Ashraf , Aftab Alam , Shapoor Zadran and Hamid Hassan bagged two wickets apiece , but Shapoor was the best of the bowlers as he conceded just 20 runs in his 7 overs. Afghanistan will have to make history today if they are to win this match. This will be their highest succesful run chase against a Test playing nation. Can they do it ? We 'll find out in a while. Take a break and join us back for Afghanistan 's reply . Earlier , after opting to bat , Bangladesh got off to a slow start as the Afghans bowled with great discipline. Mirwais Ashraf removed Tamim Iqbal and ended his 47-run opening stand with Anamul Haque in the 14th over. Mirwais dismissed Anamul soon to put a bit of pressure on Bangladesh. Soumya Sarkar and Mahmudullah steadied the ship with a brisk fifty-run stand before both went in quick succession. The experienced duo of Shakib Al Hasan and Mushfiqur Rahim then recorded Bangladesh 's highest ever World Cup stand ( 114 ) to swing the pendulum in their favour . Bangladesh have lost 5 wickets for 34 runs in the last 5 overs. When Shakib and Rahim were going great guns , it looked like 280-290 was a certainty , but Afghanistan 's death bowling was great and Bangladesh could n't keep the momentum going . 49.6 Aftab Alam to Taskin Ahmed , out Bowled ! ! This is a strong finish from Afghanistan. Full and on the off stump , Taskin just goes leg-side a bit and swings hard at it , he misses and the ball crashes into the off stump. Aftab is absolutely pumped. Taskin Ahmed b Aftab Alam 1 ( 3 ) Aftab Alam to Taskin Ahmed , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 49.5 Aftab Alam to Taskin Ahmed , byes , 2 runs , a fine yorker from Aftab , Taskin does n't make contact with his swing , the keeper fumbles and they race back for two 49.4 Aftab Alam to Rubel , byes , 1 run , a run-out chance missed. Full and swinging back in , Rubel swings hard and misses , the non-striker takes off and escapes as the keeper was off target with his throw. He appeals for caught behind as well , but the umpire is unmoved. There was a sound as the ball passed the bat and the snicko shows a big spike. Afghanistan do n't review again 49.3 Aftab Alam to Rubel , no run , oh ! This good length delivery hurries onto the batsman and swings back in as well , Rubel was late in trying to defend , he 's hit on the pad , but it was going down the leg-side 49.2 Aftab Alam to Taskin Ahmed , 1 run , widish low full toss , Taskin reaches out and squeezes it out to sweeper cover Taskin Ahmed , left handed bat , comes to the crease 49.1 Aftab Alam to Mortaza , out Bowled ! ! Full and straight , you miss , I hit ! This offering from Aftab just swung back in very late , Mortaza slogs hard at it , he loses his shape while trying to meet the ball. He misses and the ball crashes into middle and leg. Mortaza b Aftab Alam 14 ( 9 ) [ 4s-3 ] Aftab Alam to Mortaza , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Aftab Alam [ 8.0-0-54-0 ] is back into the attack Rubel Hossain , right handed bat , comes to the crease 48.6 Hamid to Mortaza , out Mominul Run Out ! ! Slower delivery wide outside off stump , Mortaza swings hard and misses. The batsmen try to steal a run , but the keeper fires an accurate throw and catches Mominul well short of his crease. The non-striker was not even in the picture. Mominul run out ( Zazai ) 3 ( 3 ) Hamid to Mortaza , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 48.5 Hamid to Mortaza , no run , low full toss on the stumps , drilled to mid-on 48.4 Hamid to Mominul , 1 run , Mominul goes across the stumps and scoops it to short fine leg 48.3 Hamid to Mortaza , leg byes , 1 run , Mortaza tries to slog and misses , the ball rolls off the pad towards square leg 48.2 Hamid to Mortaza , FOUR , full and outside off stump , driven hard and wide of mid-off. This is a handy innings from the skipper 48.1 Hamid to Mominul , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Mominul drives it to the left of the man at cover , the fielder gets a hand onto it and deflects it to mid-off. There was a slight hesitation between the batsmen , but Mortaza was well home before the keeper took the bails off The third umpire has been called for a run-out check. Mortaza is the man in question. He 's well in . 47.6 Nabi to Mortaza , FOUR , and again ! This is good batting from Mortaza. Knew that there is no one at sweeper cover , so he anticipates a short ball , goes leg-side and cuts it hard in front of point this time 47.5 Nabi to Mortaza , FOUR , full toss again and the Bangladeshi captain takes his counterpart for a boundary. Mortaza backs away and smashes this backward of point for a boundary 47.4 Nabi to Mominul , 1 run , driven away to long-off Mominul Haque , left handed bat , comes to the crease 47.3 Nabi to Rahim , out Caught by Shenwari ! ! It 's a full toss and it 's a wicket. Great catch from Shenwari at deep mid-wicket. Rahim tries to smash this over the boundary , he hits it flat , the fielder in the deep runs to his right , dives to his right and takes it with both hands. The ball was dying on him but he did well to hold on. Rahim c Shenwari b Nabi 71 ( 56 ) [ 4s-6 6s-1 ] Nabi to Rahim , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 47.2 Nabi to Rahim , FOUR , cheeky from Rahim ! Nabi looks for a yorker , but bowls a low full toss around the off stump , Rahim gets across the stumps , kneels down and paddles it fine to the fine leg boundary 47.1 Nabi to Mortaza , 1 run , darter from Nabi , Mortaza advances and looks to go big , but yorks himself , manages to send it towards square leg though Fine over from Hamid. Just four singles and a wicket in it . 46.6 Hamid to Mortaza , 1 run , fullish delivery just outside off stump , Mortaza defends it to mid-wicket and gets off the mark Mashrafe Mortaza , right handed bat , comes to the crease 46.5 Hamid to S Rahman , out Bowled ! ! There it is ! He was n't covering for the angle coming in from wide of the crease and he 's dragged this on. Nothing but a good length delivery from Hamid , Rahman was very late in trying to guide it down to third man. In the end he gets a thick inside edge which shatters into middle and off. That is wicket number two for Hamid. S Rahman b Hamid 3 ( 8 ) Hamid to S Rahman , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 46.4 Hamid to S Rahman , no run , this short of length delivery rises steeply and beats Rahman 's attempted cut. The ball came in with the angle as well 46.3 Hamid to Rahim , 1 run , no pace on the ball , Rahim waits and guides it to short third man Fine leg goes back , third man comes in . 46.2 Hamid to S Rahman , 1 run , slower delivery on the off stump , worked away to square leg 46.1 Hamid to Rahim , 1 run , a wild swing across the line from Rahim , the ball takes the inside half of the bat and goes to deep square leg 45.6 Nabi to S Rahman , no run , good fielding ! Low full toss outside off stump , Rahman square-drives the ball nicely , the fielder at backward point dives to his left and makes a fine stop. That ball was heading to the boundary 45.5 Nabi to Rahim , 1 run , too straight from Nabi , Rahim flicks it through mid-wicket 45.4 Nabi to S Rahman , 1 run , easily flicks it along the ground to deep mid-wicket 45.3 Nabi to Rahim , 1 run , low full toss outside off stump , Rahim drills it along the ground to long-off 45.2 Nabi to S Rahman , 1 run , flighted delivery spinning back into the right-hander , Rahman turns it to backward square leg , there was a slight hesitation but Rahman made his ground 45.1 Nabi to Rahim , 1 run , high full toss , bunted down to long-on 44.6 Hamid to S Rahman , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , blocked gently into the off-side 44.5 Hamid to S Rahman , no run , low full toss outside off stump , Rahman drives it to cover Sabbir Rahman , right handed bat , comes to the crease 44.4 Hamid to Shakib , out Bowled ! ! Oh he 's dragged this on ! The umpires check if Hamid was cutting the crease , but he 's fine on that account. Slower delivery from Hamid again , Shakib goes early into the slog , he gets an inside edge which hits the thigh pad and disturbs the stumps. End of a fabulous innings from Shakib. His effort will lift the bowlers when they come on to bowl. Shakib b Hamid 63 ( 51 ) [ 4s-6 6s-1 ] Hamid to Shakib , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 44.3 Hamid to Shakib , no run , Hamid is very lucky that Shakib did n't hit the gap. It was a low full wide outside off stump , Shakib sliced it nicely but picked out backward point 44.2 Hamid to Shakib , SIX , looks like a top edge and it has gone all the way. There is a bit of a glove-love in the middle between Rahim and Shakib. Slower delivery on the stumps , Shakib slogs hard , gets a thickish top edge and it goes all the way over backward square leg 44.1 Hamid to Shakib , FOUR , friendly full toss , Shakib swings hard , does n't find the middle of the bat and mid-on was too square to catch it. The bowler had no chance as well and it escaped to the boundary This is the highest ever partnership for Bangladesh in World Cup cricket . 43.6 Nabi to Rahim , 2 runs , on the leg stump , Rahim flicks it to deep square leg 43.5 Nabi to Rahim , FOUR , this is the 4th 100-run stand stand in ODIs between these two. There is no one at sweeper cover , hence Rahim exposes all the stumps , it was a short offering from Nabi and Rahim cut it away nicely in front of point 43.4 Nabi to Shakib , 1 run , 'catch it ' is the call , but it does n't carry to long-off. Flighted delivery just outside off stump , Shakib steps out and lofts it over the infield 43.3 Nabi to Rahim , 1 run , driven away to long-on 43.2 Nabi to Shakib , 1 run , Nabi darts this full and on the leg stump , Shakib drives it to the left of the bowler , who tries to stop the ball , but it escapes to long-on 43.1 Nabi to Rahim , 1 run , Rahim goes deep in the crease and tries to dab this flatter ball fine , but picks out short third man 42.6 Hamid to Shakib , no run , slower ball full toss wide outside off stump , Shakib tries to reach out and send it square of the wicket on the off-side , but only manages a thin edge that goes on the bounce to the keeper 42.5 Hamid to Rahim , 1 run , a fantastic yorker from Hamid , Rahim digs it out , looks at his partner and then sets off for a sharp run. The bowler gave up very early 42.4 Hamid to Shakib , 1 run , the length is a little on the shorter side , Shakib slaps it hard to sweeper cover 42.3 Hamid to Rahim , 1 run , Rahim swings hard at it and gets a thick inside edge that rolls to backward square leg 42.2 Hamid to Rahim , no run , Rahim tries to be cheeky with a scoop to fine leg , but he walks right across the stumps and fails to make contact with this yorker length ball 42.1 Hamid to Shakib , 1 run , Shakib gets to his 27th ODI fifty. Round the wicket length ball from Hamid , Shakib nudges it to square leg and gets an easy run. Rahim congratulates his partner for getting to the milestone Hamid Hassan [ 6.0-0-37-0 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Nabi to Shakib , 1 run , on the leg stump , worked away to backward square leg 41.5 Nabi to Rahim , 1 run , that 's sloppy from Afghanistan. Rahim leans forward and defends it to point , the throw was very poor and the keeper could n't stop the ball 41.4 Nabi to Rahim , no run , flighted delivery on the leg stump , Rahim flicks it uppishly to mid-wicket 41.3 Nabi to Rahim , 2 runs , driven wide of long-off and it 's Rahim 's 19th ODI fifty. He raises his bats and acknowledges the applause , Shakib shakes hands with his partner. It was very full and wide outside off stump , Rahim drove it along the ground and raced back for the second 41.2 Nabi to Rahim , no run , spinning back into the right-hander , Rahim nudges this to mid-wicket 41.1 Nabi to Shakib , 1 run , quicker delivery from Nabi , drilled down to long-on 40.6 Aftab Alam to Rahim , no run , yorker from Aftab , Rahim digs it out 40.5 Aftab Alam to Rahim , 2 runs , too short and way outside off stump , Rahim reaches for it and cuts it to deep point 40.4 Aftab Alam to Rahim , SIX , oh he 's smashed that ! Full and on the leg stump , Rahim waits for the ball and slogs it handsomley over backward square leg 40.3 Aftab Alam to Rahim , no run , oh how did that miss the stumps ? Hang on ! Was it pad first ? This fuller length delivery just tails back into the right-hander , Rahim tries to run it down to third man but the inward movement foxes him , somehow manages to get an edge and it rolls past the off stump to the keeper. There was an appeal for LBW from the bowler , but umpire Davis was unmoved. Replays show that it was pad first and a review would have given Afghanistan the wicket 40.2 Aftab Alam to Shakib , 1 run , Aftab cramps Shakib for room as he back away and follows him with a short of length delivery , Shakib cuts it towards backward point 40.1 Aftab Alam to Rahim , 1 run , slower delivery outside off stump , Rahim steers it down to third man 48 runs came off the batting powerplay. Bangladesh are batting well now , courtesy of these two. But , they need to carry on the good work . 39.6 Nabi to Shakib , no run , low full toss outside off , Shakib was backing away and can only drag it back towards the bowler 39.5 Nabi to Shakib , 2 runs , lofts this tossed up delivery back over the bowler , the batsmen take another couple before the long-off fielder runs to his left and collects the ball 39.4 Nabi to Shakib , 2 runs , Shakib backs away and Nabi follows him with a fuller one , he drives it wide of long-off and comes back for the second easily 39.3 Nabi to Rahim , 1 run , low full toss on the pads , Rahim helps it down to long-on and gets off strike 39.2 Nabi to Shakib , 1 run , backs away and drills this fullish delivery towards long-on 39.1 Nabi to Shakib , 2 runs , quicker one on the stumps , Shakib goes hard at it and the ball rolls past mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat , the batsmen take a couple and even though there was a direct-hit from the deep , Rahim had made his ground at the non-striker 's end Mohammad Nabi [ 4.0-0-16-0 ] is back into the attack 38.6 Aftab Alam to Shakib , 1 run , slowish delivery angling in on middle and leg , Shakib knocks it down to long-on and he will keep the strike , the fielder at mid-on had been moved back after the boundary earlier in the over 38.5 Aftab Alam to Shakib , no run , yorker on the stumps , Shakib jams it out to cover 38.4 Aftab Alam to Shakib , FOUR , back-to-back boundaries for Shakib , this is superb batting , it was a full toss outside off , Shakib drives hard and gets it front of square for another boundary 38.3 Aftab Alam to Shakib , FOUR , overpitching on middle and leg , Shakib had backed away and he drills the drive to the right of mid-on , the fielder was inside the circle and the ball runs away to the fence 38.2 Aftab Alam to Rahim , 1 run , slowish fuller delivery around off , Rahim eases it down to long-on and gets off strike 38.1 Aftab Alam to Shakib , 1 run , run-out chance ! Shakib survives though after he digs a yorker to the left of mid-off , who runs forward , picks the ball and fires in the throw at the non-striker 's end. Shakib was charging to the other end , but a direct hit would have meant curtains for him 37.6 Hamid to Shakib , 1 run , on the pads once again , Shakib fails to get it fine and ends up mistiming the nurdle behind square , the batsmen take a single 37.5 Hamid to Shakib , no run , good yorker on the stumps , Shakib goes slightly across and jams it out to mid-wicket 37.4 Hamid to Rahim , 1 run , angling in on the pads , Rahim clips it behind square for a single 37.3 Hamid to Rahim , FOUR , good shot from Rahim , it was fullish and outside off , Rahim drives it through the cover and the ball runs away to the fence 37.2 Hamid to Shakib , 3 runs , backs away and looks to go inside-out , it was a yorker and in the end , Shakib can only get it square of the wicket off the outside half of the bat , the batsmen take three before the ball if fielded 37.1 Hamid to Rahim , 1 run , Rahim premeditates and goes right across his stumps to probably try and scoop one over short fine , Hamid follows him down leg and in the end Rahim can only push it towards mid-wicket 36.6 Aftab Alam to Shakib , FOUR , bad , bad ball to end the over. It was full and on leg , easy pickings for Shakib , who nurdles it fine to the right of fine leg and the ball runs away to the fence , with that boundary , Shakib also goes past 4000 runs in ODIs 36.5 Aftab Alam to Shakib , no run , good yorker around off , Shakib jams it out to extra cover and was looking for the single , but Rahim sends him back 36.4 Aftab Alam to Rahim , 1 run , low full toss outside off , Rahim pushes it towards cover off the toe-end of the bat and the batsmen pinch a quick run 36.3 Aftab Alam to Rahim , 2 runs , loopy full toss from alam , Rahim pulls it wide of long-on , he did n't time it well , but good running ensures that they come back for the second easily in the end 36.2 Aftab Alam to Rahim , no run , on a good length and targetting the stumps this time , Rahim blocks it towards point 36.1 Aftab Alam to Rahim , 2 runs , eases this fullish delivery down to long-on after coming across Aftab Alam [ 5.0-0-24-0 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Hamid to Shakib , no run , shortish and wide outside off , Shakib cuts it to backward point , he would feel that he has missed out on some runs there 35.5 Hamid to Rahim , 1 run , did he get an inside edge onto the pad there ? It was on a good length and angling into the pads , Rahim fails to work it through the leg-side and gets an inside edge onto the pad , there was an appeal for lbw , but it can never be given out. The batsmen sneak in a run as the ball rolls away into the off-side 35.4 Hamid to Rahim , FOUR , fullish delivery around off , Rahim clears the front leg and heaves it to the deep mid-wicket fence 35.3 Hamid to Rahim , 2 runs , gives the charge to this short delivery , he was not upto the pitch of the ball and cuts it very late , the ball flies off the top-edge and runs away to third man , the batsmen take two 35.2 Hamid to Rahim , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Rahim defends off the back foot 35.1 Hamid to Shakib , 3 runs , comes from round the wicket and bowls this on a length outside off , Shakib goes for the drive , but gets a thickish inside edge that runs past the off stump and goes fine , the batsmen take three before the short fine fielder hunts it down Hamid Hassan [ 4.0-0-17-0 ] is back into the attack It 's batting powerplay time. Bangladesh need a move on from here . 34.6 Ahmadi to Shakib , 1 run , full and outside off , Shakib drills the drive to sweeper cover and he will keep the strike 34.5 Ahmadi to Rahim , 1 run , drifting on middle and leg , Rahim works it behind square for a single 34.4 Ahmadi to Rahim , FOUR , dances down the track and lofts this tossed up delivery around off inside-out , the ball runs away to the fence in no time , good shot from the former captain 34.3 Ahmadi to Rahim , 2 runs , flighted delivery on the stumps , Rahim goes for the slog sweep , but ca n't time it that well , the ball goes towards the deep mid-wicket region and the batsmen take two 34.2 Ahmadi to Rahim , no run , shortish from Ahmadi , Rahim cuts but picks out backward point 34.1 Ahmadi to Rahim , no run , floated on off and middle , Rahim pushes it to the right of the bowler , the fielder at mid-wicket moves to his left and prevents the single 33.6 Aftab Alam to Shakib , no run , shortish delivery at the batsman , Shakib was looking to pull it , but ca n't connect and wears it high on his thigh pad , the ball rolls away into the off-side and the batsmen were looking for the single , but they decide against it at the end 33.5 Aftab Alam to Shakib , no run , yorker on off , Shakib jams it out to backward point 33.5 Aftab Alam to Shakib , wide , another one down the leg side , Shakib fails to glance it fine and the umpire signals a wide 33.4 Aftab Alam to Rahim , 1 run , fuller in length and around off , Rahim leans forward and drives it to sweeper cover 33.3 Aftab Alam to Shakib , 1 run , did that come off the pad or bat ? The umpire thinks it came off the bat , it was full and on the leg stump line , the ball rolls away fine after clipping the pad , the batsmen cross over 33.2 Aftab Alam to Shakib , no run , slightly fuller on middle , Shakib goes slightly across and turns it to mid-wicket 33.1 Aftab Alam to Rahim , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Rahim knocks it square of the wicket off the back foot 33.1 Aftab Alam to Rahim , wide , not a great delivery to start your new spell as he splays this one down leg , wided by the umpire Aftab Alam [ 4.0-0-19-0 ] is back into the attack Aftab Alam comes back , replacing Shapoor 32.6 Ahmadi to Shakib , no run , another flatter one outside off , it was quicker too. Shakib was looking to cut it hard , but the ball goes past his blade and the keeper collects 32.5 Ahmadi to Shakib , no run , shortish and slightly wide outside off , Shakib cuts and picks out the fielder at point 32.4 Ahmadi to Rahim , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle and leg , Rahim bunts it down to long-on 32.3 Ahmadi to Shakib , 1 run , flatter outside off , Shakib chops it to the right of the cover and the batsmen take a single 32.2 Ahmadi to Rahim , 1 run , poor ball from Ahmadi , too short and Rahim pulls it to deep mid-wicket , luckily for Ahmadi , there was a fielder there and it is only a single Javed Ahmadi [ 3.0-0-21-0 ] is back into the attack What has happened here ? Umpire Davis gives him the second warning and Shenwari is off the bowling attack. He ca n't bowl anymore in this game . 32.1 Shenwari to Shakib , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Shakib drives it wide of mid-off for a single Drinks are on the field now. After losing the openers in quick succession , Mahmudullah and Sarkar then put on a 50-run stand to stabilize the Bangladeshi innings. However , both of them got out and Afghanistan are back on top. Shakib and Rahim need to bat sensibly and accelerate at the same time if Bangladesh are to post a respectable total. It will be interesting to see how they go about their job during the batting powerplay as well . 31.6 Shapoor to Shakib , 1 run , another shortish delivery on the pads , Shakib helps it to fine leg after a swivel , with this run Shakib becomes the highest run-scorer for Bangladesh in ODIs 31.5 Shapoor to Rahim , 1 run , banged in short and slightly wide outside off , Rahim stays back , hangs his bat at it and the ball rolls away towards third man 31.4 Shapoor to Rahim , FOUR , full and outside off , Rahim presses forward , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and drives it through backward point for his first boundary 31.3 Shapoor to Rahim , no run , yorker from Shapoor , Rahim digs it out to mid-off 31.2 Shapoor to Rahim , no run , touch fullish this time and around off , Rahim pushes it into the off-side 31.1 Shapoor to Rahim , no run , short of length delivery on off , Rahim gets right behind the line and blocks solidly Just after the over , umpire Steve Davis has given an official warning to Shenwari for landing on the danger area . 30.6 Shenwari to Shakib , no run , bowls this one quicker and outside off , Shakib was looking to cut it , but fails to connect 30.5 Shenwari to Shakib , no run , tossed up on middle and leg , Shakib goes deep and works it to mid-wicket 30.4 Shenwari to Shakib , no run , flatter around off , Shakib goes back and cuts it to cover 30.3 Shenwari to Shakib , no run , on the pads , Shakib nudges it to short fine , he was looking for the single , but the non-striker sends him back 30.2 Shenwari to Rahim , 1 run , floated outside off , Rahim comes on the front foot and drives it to long-off 30.1 Shenwari to Rahim , no run , gives this one more air on middle and gets it to turn away , Rahim defends off the front foot Samiullah Shenwari , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack Shenwari comes onto bowl for the first time today 29.6 Shapoor to Shakib , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Shakib hangs back and defends , the ball rolls away to his right off the inside half of the bat 29.5 Shapoor to Rahim , 1 run , full and outside off , Rahim comes forward and looks to drive it hard , the ball rolls away down to third man off the outside half of the bat 29.4 Shapoor to Rahim , 2 runs , fullish in length and on middle , clipped through mid-wicket for a brace 29.3 Shapoor to Rahim , no run , good bumper from Shapoor , Rahim ducks underneath and the umpire signals one bouncer for the over 29.2 Shapoor to Rahim , no run , full toss angling in around off , Rahim helps it down to mid-on A slip in place for Rahim Mushfiqur Rahim , right handed bat , comes to the crease 29.1 Shapoor to Mahmudullah , out Caught by Zazai ! ! Shapoor strikes again and Mahmudullah has to go. It was just short of a good length and outside off , Mahmudullah was looking to run it down to third man and opens the face of the bat. The extra bounce on the ball catches the edge and the keeper takes a good catch diving low to his right. Bangladesh are 4 down now. Mahmudullah c Zazai b Shapoor 23 ( 46 ) Shapoor to Mahmudullah , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 28.6 Ahmadi to Shakib , FOUR , drags this one short and Shakib is quick to rock back , he pulls it to the deep mid-wicket fence and collects four , this is great batting , he has now raced to 13 off 7 balls 28.5 Ahmadi to Mahmudullah , 1 run , on middle and leg , Mahmudullah works it behind square and gets to the other end 28.4 Ahmadi to Mahmudullah , no run , goes down on one knee and looks to sweep , he gets a top-edge that falls to his left , but the keeper could n't get to it on time 28.3 Ahmadi to Shakib , 1 run , floated up on middle and leg , Shakib eases it down to long-on 28.2 Ahmadi to Shakib , no run , darted on the pad , Shakib leans forward and defends 28.1 Ahmadi to Shakib , 2 runs , shortish and slightly wide outside off , Shakib rocks back and cuts it past backward point for a couple 27.6 Shapoor to Mahmudullah , no run , yorker around off , Mahmudullah jams it out into the off-side The umpires are having a discussion. Maybe , it is about three fielders behind square on the leg-side. Shakib complained to the umpires about something. Not really sure about what . 27.5 Shapoor to Shakib , 1 run , full and around off , Shakib goes across and wrists it towards mid-wicket , the batsmen take a quick single A leg slip is in place now 27.4 Shapoor to Mahmudullah , 1 run , short of length delivery on top of off , Mahmudullah nudges it towards mid-wicket and sets off for a single 27.3 Shapoor to Mahmudullah , no run , full and slightly wide outside off , Mahmudullah chases it and goes after it , but fails to make a connection and the keeper collects 27.2 Shapoor to Mahmudullah , no run , was that going down leg ? Yes , it was. It was the fuller one from round the wicket , it comes in sharply around middle and leg , Mahmudullah fails to clip it into the leg-side and is hit on the pad , the ball was snaking down leg though 27.1 Shapoor to Mahmudullah , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Mahmudullah goes back and defends 26.6 Ahmadi to Mahmudullah , 1 run , drifting onto the pad , Mahmudullah works it towards square leg for a single 26.5 Ahmadi to Shakib , 1 run , flatter on the stumps , Shakib backs away and cuts it towards cover , the batsmen take a quick single 26.4 Ahmadi to Mahmudullah , 1 run , floated around off , Mahmudullah leans forward and wrists it to long-on 26.3 Ahmadi to Mahmudullah , no run , an appeal from the Afghanis , but that was too high. It was slowish and turning in on middle , Mahmudullah fails to work it into the on-side and wears it on his pad 26.2 Ahmadi to Mahmudullah , no run , gives this one more air , Mahmudullah works it towards mid-wicket , who dives to his left and stops the ball 26.1 Ahmadi to Mahmudullah , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Mahmudullah defends off the front foot Javed Ahmadi [ 1.0-0-10-0 ] is back into the attack 25.6 Shapoor to Shakib , FOUR , Shakib gets off the mark with a boundary , this was a poor ball , full and on the pads , Shakib tickles it to the fine leg fence Shakib Al Hasan , left handed bat , comes to the crease 25.5 Shapoor to Soumya Sarkar , out Lbw ! ! Shapoor gets the breakthrough. Sarkar departs after hitting a six and a four in the previous over. It was fuller and tailing in on middle stump line , Sarkar was looking to whip it through the on-side from the crease , he fails to lay bat onto it and the ball hits the front pad first and then gets deflected onto the back pad. The umpire took his time and then raised his finger. Shapoor is pumped and celebrates in delight. Sarkar had a chat with Mahmudullah and maybe , he was unaware that the review had already been used up by Anamul. Soumya Sarkar lbw b Shapoor 28 ( 25 ) [ 4s-3 6s-1 ] Shapoor to Soumya Sarkar , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Back over the wicket to the left-hander 25.4 Shapoor to Mahmudullah , 1 run , touch straighter in line , Mahmudullah goes slightly across and tucks it away to fine leg , this single also brings up the 50-run stand between these two 25.3 Shapoor to Mahmudullah , no run , length delivery outside off , Mahmudullah leans forward and blocks it to cover with an angular bat 25.2 Shapoor to Mahmudullah , no run , just short of a good length and angling in on off , Mahmudullah defends it to the left of the bowler 25.1 Shapoor to Mahmudullah , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Mahmudullah hops and defends it towards point Shapoor Zadran [ 3.0-1-4-0 ] is back into the attack Zadran comes back , replacing Ahmadi. Zadran only gave away 4 runs in his first 3 overs. Let 's see how his second spell goes. He will start from round the wicket 24.6 Mirwais to Soumya Sarkar , FOUR , strays this one onto the pads , Sarkar leans forward a touch and flicks it hard to the fine leg fence , 15 runs came off that over 24.5 Mirwais to Mahmudullah , 3 runs , fuller and just outside off , Mahmudullah presses forward and drives it between extra cover and mid-off 24.4 Mirwais to Mahmudullah , no run , fullish around off , Mahmudullah steps out of the crease and defends it to point 24.3 Mirwais to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle , Sarkar closes the bat face early , gets a leading edge to cover 24.2 Mirwais to Soumya Sarkar , SIX , fantastic shot from Sarkar ! Great use of the feet , comes charging down the track and pulls this back of a length delivery across the line to send it over the wide long-on fence for a big maximum 24.1 Mirwais to Mahmudullah , 1 run , back of a length and coming back into the right-hander , who moves across a touch and clips it to deep backward square leg 23.6 Ahmadi to Mahmudullah , 1 run , shuffles across and softly wrists it to mid-wicket for a quick single 23.5 Ahmadi to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , presses on the front foot and drives it to sweeper cover 23.4 Ahmadi to Mahmudullah , 1 run , gets forward and gently taps it towards long-on 23.3 Ahmadi to Mahmudullah , 2 runs , shuffles across and clips it through backward square leg , sets off for the run , the fielder fires a direct hit at the non-striker 's end but Mahmudullah was safely in , the batsmen then run for the second on overthrow Third umpire has been called for a run-out chance. Mahmudullah was the man in question. Not out is the call . 23.2 Ahmadi to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , guides it with an open bat face towards backward point , a slight misfield allows the batsmen to run a single 23.1 Ahmadi to Soumya Sarkar , FOUR , what a welcome for Ahmadi ! He bowls this one quite short , Sarkar had all the time in the world to rock back and pulls it to deep mid-wicket Javed Ahmadi , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 22.6 Mirwais to Mahmudullah , no run , stays behind the line and blocks it back , the ball keeps a little low as well , third maiden over from Mirwais 22.5 Mirwais to Mahmudullah , no run , a bit of a mix-up there. Mahmudullah stays back and dabs this back of a length delivery outside off with an open bat face to backward point , the fielder dives , makes a fine stop and has a shy at the non-striker 's end , Soumya Sarkar has to hurry back and a single is prevented 22.4 Mirwais to Mahmudullah , no run , shuffles across and turns this length delivery around off towards short mid-wicket 22.3 Mirwais to Mahmudullah , no run , touch fuller around off , Mahmudullah solidly defends off the front foot with an angled bat 22.2 Mirwais to Mahmudullah , no run , length delivery coming back into Mahmudullah , he wrists it towards short mid-wicket 22.1 Mirwais to Mahmudullah , no run , fullish on off , Mahmudullah defends it gently into the leg-side 21.6 Nabi to Mahmudullah , 1 run , shuffles across a touch and works it to square leg for a brisk single 21.5 Nabi to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , drifts it onto the pads , Sarkar clips it to square leg 21.4 Nabi to Soumya Sarkar , no run , makes room and cuts this shortish delivery behind point 21.3 Nabi to Mahmudullah , 1 run , full and on the off stump , driven to long-on 21.2 Nabi to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , on the off stump , tucked for a single through mid-wicket 21.1 Nabi to Soumya Sarkar , no run , flatter ball on the stumps , defended 20.6 Mirwais to Mahmudullah , no run , fuller around off , Mahmudullah gets behind the line and defends solidly. He wants a single but is sent back 20.5 Mirwais to Mahmudullah , no run , fullish and around leg once again , Mahmudullah works it behind square 20.4 Mirwais to Mahmudullah , 2 runs , straying onto Mahmudullah 's pad , Mahmudullah leans forward and flicks it through backward square leg 20.4 Mirwais to Mahmudullah , wide , full and going down leg , Mahmudullah does not connect with the glance 20.3 Mirwais to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , opens the face of the bat and guides it to third man 20.2 Mirwais to Mahmudullah , leg byes , 1 run , slides it down leg , Mahmudullah misses the glance and the ball goes off the pad behind square , a muted appeal for lbw but that was comfortably missing the leg-stump 20.1 Mirwais to Mahmudullah , no run , fuller around off , Mahmudullah brings his bat down and defends it towards mid-on 19.6 Aftab Alam to Mahmudullah , 3 runs , back of a length and coming back in , Mahmudullah shuffles across and clips it to deep mid-wicket , sloppy fielding there , allows the batsmen to take a third run 19.5 Aftab Alam to Mahmudullah , no run , fuller around off , Mahmudullah pushes at it , gets a thickish inside edge towards mid-on 19.4 Aftab Alam to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , leans forward to this full delivery on off and works it to mid-on for a brisk run 19.3 Aftab Alam to Mahmudullah , 1 run , length delivery around off , Mahmudullah shuffles across a touch and clips it to fine leg 19.2 Aftab Alam to Mahmudullah , no run , bouncer on off , Mahmudullah ducks underneath it 19.1 Aftab Alam to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , fullish around off , Sarkar taps it to cover-point and calls for a quick single , Mahmudullah responds well , good running between the wickets by the batsmen 18.6 Mirwais to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , opens the face of the bat and helps it to third man for a comfortable single 18.5 Mirwais to Soumya Sarkar , FOUR , nicely picked up by Sarkar ! It was a full delivery from Mirwais straying onto Sarkar 's pads , he just leans forward slightly and whips it to the deep mid-wicket fence 18.4 Mirwais to Soumya Sarkar , no run , Sarkar presses forward and pushes this full delivery around off towards mid-off 18.3 Mirwais to Soumya Sarkar , no run , keeps it full and angles it across the batsman , Sarkar drives it softly to cover 18.2 Mirwais to Soumya Sarkar , no run , fullish on middle and off , Sarkar knocks it towards cover-point , straight to the fielder 18.1 Mirwais to Soumya Sarkar , no run , fuller and angled across , Sarkar gets forward and drives it to cover 17.6 Aftab Alam to Mahmudullah , no run , opens the face of the bat and dabs this outside off delivery behind point 17.5 Aftab Alam to Mahmudullah , no run , low full toss coming back into the batsman , Mahmudullah pushes it towards mid-on 17.4 Aftab Alam to Mahmudullah , no run , fullish around off , Mahmudullah defends it with an angled bat towards cover 17.4 Aftab Alam to Mahmudullah , wide , a very high bumper from Alam outside off , Mahmudullah ducks under it and lets that go through 17.3 Aftab Alam to Mahmudullah , no run , fuller and in that channel outside off , Mahmudullah shoulders arms to it 17.2 Aftab Alam to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , knocks it towards square third man for a comfortable single 17.1 Aftab Alam to Soumya Sarkar , no run , appeal for a caught behind from the bowler but that seems to have come off the pad. It was a full ball around leg , Sarkar misses the glance and the ball goes off the pad into the keeper 's gloves. Replays showed that there was no bat involved Aftab Alam [ 2.0-0-11-0 ] is back into the attack Alam is back into the attack. Just a wide slip in place 16.6 Mirwais to Mahmudullah , 2 runs , Mahmudullah shuffles across , leans forward and clips it through backward square leg for a brace 16.5 Mirwais to Mahmudullah , no run , length delivery around off , Mahmudullah presses forward and defends it to cover Mahmudullah , right handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now 16.4 Mirwais to Anamul , out Lbw ! ! It was a back of a length delivery from Mirwais , Anamul gets forward and looks to push into the off-side , the ball nips back in and raps his back pad instead. The bowler and the wicketkeeper appealed straightaway. Hawk-Eye showed that impact was just around the off-stump , it was a 50 : 50 call. And the ball was just clipping the top of off-stump. Anamul will have to go ! Anamul lbw b Mirwais 29 ( 55 ) [ 4s-4 ] Mirwais to Anamul , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Anamul has been given out lbw. He has reviewed that after consultation with his partner. No problems with Mirwais ' front foot. No bat is involved. The impact is umpire 's call and it was just clipping off. The onfield decision stays and Anamul is OUT ! 16.3 Mirwais to Anamul , no run , fuller and around off , Anamul gets forward and drives it straight to the fielder at cover 16.2 Mirwais to Anamul , no run , presses forward once again and drives it towards cover-point 16.1 Mirwais to Anamul , no run , fullish and just outside off , Anamul gets forward and knocks it towards point 15.6 Nabi to Anamul , 1 run , on middle , Anamul gets forward and drives it softly to long-on 15.5 Nabi to Anamul , no run , looks to turn it down the leg-side , gets a soft leading edge back to the bowler 15.4 Nabi to Anamul , FOUR , quicker delivery by Nabi this time , Anamul uses the pace on that and steers it to the square third man fence , no chance for the fielder to stop that one. The bowler is not very happy about it 15.3 Nabi to Anamul , no run , stays on the front foot and defends comfortably 15.2 Nabi to Anamul , no run , fullish around the leg stump , Anamul nudges this into the on-side 15.1 Nabi to Anamul , no run , gets forward and knocks it in front of point 14.6 Mirwais to Soumya Sarkar , no run , fullish around off , Sarkar gets forward and defends it into the off-side. A maiden wicket over from Mirwais 14.5 Mirwais to Soumya Sarkar , no run , presses on the front foot and pushes it to mid-on 14.4 Mirwais to Soumya Sarkar , no run , length delivery on middle and off , Sarkar gets forward and pushes it to mid-off Soumya Sarkar , left handed bat , comes to the crease 14.3 Mirwais to Tamim , out Caught by Zazai ! ! Brilliant catch by the keeper and what a huge wicket for Afghanistan ! It was a short of good length delivery by Mirwais , no feet movement from Tamim as he just looks to run this down to third man , gets a thick outside edge instead. Zazai dives full length to his left and snaffles the take with one hand. The Afghan players are ecstatic , they have finally got their man. Tamim had survived a caught behind chance on 6 earlier. Tamim c Zazai b Mirwais 19 ( 42 ) [ 4s-2 ] Mirwais to Tamim , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 14.2 Mirwais to Tamim , no run , keeps it full and around off , Tamim gets forward and drives it towards mid-off again 14.1 Mirwais to Tamim , no run , fuller and coming back into the batsman , Tamim drives it hard to mid-off 13.6 Nabi to Anamul , no run , shuffles across a touch and works it in front of square on the leg-side 13.5 Nabi to Anamul , no run , stays behind the line and pushes it back to the bowler 13.4 Nabi to Tamim , 1 run , gets down on one knee and sweeps it to square leg 13.3 Nabi to Anamul , 1 run , gets forward and pushes at it , gets a thick outside edge to short third man for a streaky single 13.2 Nabi to Tamim , 1 run , opens the face of the bat to this quicker delivery outside off and gets a bottom edge to short third man for a brisk single 13.1 Nabi to Anamul , 1 run , gets forward and gently taps it towards long-on 12.6 Mirwais to Tamim , no run , length delivery on middle , Tamim gets forward slightly and defends it towards cover 12.5 Mirwais to Tamim , no run , short of a good length around off , Tamim bunts it just in front of point 12.4 Mirwais to Anamul , 1 run , comes down the track and clips it to mid-wicket for a quick single 12.3 Mirwais to Anamul , no run , length delivery coming back into the batsman , Anamul defends it from the crease 12.2 Mirwais to Tamim , 1 run , direct hit and Tamim would have been a goner ! He comes forward to this length delivery around off and taps it to cover , wants a single and comes halfway down the track , the fielder at cover fires a throw at the striker 's end and Tamim has to hurry back. The ball does not hit the stumps and the batsmen take a single on the overthrow 12.1 Mirwais to Tamim , no run , shortens the length and shapes it away from the left-hander , Tamim came down the track and slashed hard at it but missed it completely 11.6 Nabi to Anamul , no run , pushed through slower by Nabi , Anamul gets a good stride forward , plays with the spin and turns it towards mid-wicket 11.5 Nabi to Anamul , no run , slower and on off , Anamul gets well forward and blocks 11.4 Nabi to Anamul , no run , flighted and on the stumps , Anamul presses forward and defends it 11.3 Nabi to Tamim , 1 run , tossed up and on off , driven down towards long-off for a single 11.2 Nabi to Tamim , no run , another shout , for LBW this time , but the angle was taking it down leg , Tamim was looking to work one towards the on-side and missed 11.2 Nabi to Tamim , wide , appeal for a caught behind , but the umpire is n't fooled and signals it as a wide. This was slanted down leg-side by Nabi A slip is in place 11.1 Nabi to Anamul , 1 run , tossed up and on the stumps , Anamul works it in front of square on the on-side for a single Mohammad Nabi , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 10.6 Mirwais to Tamim , no run , a maiden over from Ashraf , nothing really special , just bowling to his field , this was full and in that channel outside off , Tamim presses forward and drives it straight to cover 10.5 Mirwais to Tamim , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Tamim prods forward , meets the ball on top of the bounce and drives it towards cover 10.4 Mirwais to Tamim , no run , Ashraf goes full and just outside off , Tamim goes hard on the drive , gets an inside edge towards mid-wicket 10.3 Mirwais to Tamim , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Tamim gets a good stride forward and pushes it towards the off-side 10.2 Mirwais to Tamim , no run , back of a length and in that channel outside off , Tamim hangs back and defends it towards cover 10.1 Mirwais to Tamim , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Tamim works it to the left of mid-wicket and calls for a single , Anamul is n't so sure and asks his partner to go back 9.6 Aftab Alam to Anamul , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , Anamul does n't need to fiddle at those , left alone 9.5 Aftab Alam to Anamul , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Anamul gets well forward and drives it towards mid-off 9.4 Aftab Alam to Anamul , no run , that 's much better from Alam , pitches this one further up and gets it to shape away , draws Anamul into the drive and beats his outside edge 9.3 Aftab Alam to Anamul , FOUR , this is poor bowling from Alam , he overcompensates and offers this one plenty of width outside off , cracked away square past cover for a boundary 9.2 Aftab Alam to Anamul , 2 runs , Alam is n't getting his line and length right , drifts one onto Anamul 's pads , whipped past square leg for a couple of more runs 9.1 Aftab Alam to Anamul , FOUR , way too short from Aftab Alam , he does n't have the pace to trouble the batsmen , Anamul swivels across , rolls his wrists and pulls it past mid-wicket , the ball races away to the mid-wicket boundary 8.6 Mirwais to Anamul , 1 run , full and nipping back into Anamul , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single 8.5 Mirwais to Anamul , no run , tad fuller and in that channel outside off , Anamul gets a good stride forward and defends it towards the off-side 8.4 Mirwais to Anamul , no run , on a good length and angling back into Anamul , defended towards the on-side 8.3 Mirwais to Anamul , no run , pushed up further and just outside off , not much bounce on that , Anamul was looking to pull and missed , the ball hits the thigh pad and rolls away towards the off-side 8.2 Mirwais to Anamul , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Anamul presses across and defends it towards the off-side 8.1 Mirwais to Tamim , 3 runs , poor start from Ashraf , a half-volley on Tamim 's pads , clipped away in front of square on the on-side , a long chase for the fielder and the batsmen get back for the third run Mirwais Ashraf , right-arm medium fast , comes into the attack 7.6 Aftab Alam to Anamul , no run , tad fuller and in that channel outside off , Anamul presses across and defends it with an angled bat 7.5 Aftab Alam to Anamul , no run , back of a length and in that channel outside off , Anamul is n't sure of his footwork , limply hangs his bat at that and the ball goes past the outside edge 7.4 Aftab Alam to Tamim , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Tamim presses across and nudges it in front of mid-wicket , there was a bit of hesitation between the two batsmen , but the single was always on 7.3 Aftab Alam to Tamim , no run , short of a length and well outside off , Tamim stays back and slaps it straight to cover-point 7.2 Aftab Alam to Tamim , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Tamim presses across and defends it towards the on-side 7.1 Aftab Alam to Tamim , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Tamim shuffles across and defends it Aftab Alam , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 6.6 Hamid to Anamul , no run , Hassan shortens his length outside off , Anamul watches it all along , lifts his bat and lets it go 6.5 Hamid to Anamul , no run , on a good length and a hint of shape back into Anamul , he closes the face of the bat and defends it towards mid-on 6.4 Hamid to Anamul , FOUR , Hassan releases the pressure , poor ball , full and on Anamul 's pads , he gets inside the line and flicks it very fine , the fine leg is pretty square , first boundary for Anamul 6.3 Hamid to Anamul , no run , tad fuller and in that corridor outside off , Anamul gets a good stride forward , presents the full face of the bat and blocks 6.2 Hamid to Anamul , no run , Hassan keeps it full and in that corridor outside off , Anamul is n't tempted at playing those , good carry and hits the keeper 's gloves hard 6.1 Hamid to Anamul , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Anamul gets well forward and drives it towards mid-off A slip and a short cover in place 5.6 Shapoor to Tamim , no run , Shapoor shortens his length and gets this one to drift into Tamim , turned away towards square leg , a maiden over from Shapoor 5.5 Shapoor to Tamim , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Tamim presses forward and defends it towards the off-side 5.4 Shapoor to Tamim , no run , back of a length and well outside off , punched off the back-foot , but ca n't get past extra cover 5.3 Shapoor to Tamim , no run , Shapoor is hitting the deck hard , gets good bounce on this back of a length delivery , Tamim hops across and defends it 5.2 Shapoor to Tamim , no run , Shapoor shortens his length and gets it to hold its line outside off , Tamim drops his gloves and sways away from the line 5.1 Shapoor to Tamim , no run , short of a length and angling acros Tamim , defended towards the off-side 4.6 Hamid to Anamul , no run , appeal for LBW , but there were two noises on that , must have been the inside egde of the bat. Anamul fell over as he went for the flick , umpire Davis says NO 4.5 Hamid to Tamim , 1 run , good shot but equally well fielded at mid-on , this was full and on off , Tamim presents the full face of the bat and drives it to the right of mid-on. The fielder tumbles and makes a half-stop , saves some runs for his team 4.4 Hamid to Tamim , no run , tad fuller and shaping away from outside off , Iqbal covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 4.3 Hamid to Tamim , no run , much better from Hassan , on a good length and in that channel around off , Tamim presents the full face of the bat as he blocks 4.2 Hamid to Tamim , FOUR , too full and too wide from Hassan , Tamim gets a big stride forward and crashes it through extra cover , no one moved , the ball races away to the fence 4.1 Hamid to Anamul , leg byes , 1 run , Hassan goes full and on Anamul 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away behind square on the on-side for a leg-bye 3.6 Shapoor to Anamul , 1 run , that 's poor cricket from Nabi at cover , he did exceedingly well to get across and intercept the drive. Anamul was looking for a single , would have been in trouble had Nabi gathered the ball. In the end , the return is poor and the ball rolls away towards square leg , Anamul gets the single 3.5 Shapoor to Anamul , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Anamul presses across and defends it with a straight bat 3.4 Shapoor to Anamul , no run , that 's a cracker from Shapoor , Anamul was completely taken by surprise , does well to drop his wrists at the last moment and sways out of the way. This one pitched around middle and reared from a length as it angled away , Anamul was pushing forward and is surprised as the ball jags past his outside edge 3.3 Shapoor to Anamul , no run , back of a length and shaping away from outside off , Anamul covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 3.2 Shapoor to Anamul , no run , short of a length and just outside off , rears up from a length , Anamul rides with the bounce and defends it The replays are out on that Tamim call. There 's a spike mark when the ball went past the bat , on the snicko. It ca n't be anything other than a thin edge. Why did n't you refer , Afghanistan ? 3.1 Shapoor to Anamul , 2 runs , short of a length and on Anamul 's pads , clipped away past square leg for a brace , poor running , there was a third run there 2.6 Hamid to Tamim , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , lures Tamim into the drive , there was a clear noise as the ball went past the outside edge. Zazai was sure , so was the bowler , but umpire Steve Davis says NO Loud shout for a caught behind. Almost the entire Afghanistan team deliberate on a review , and then decide against it 2.5 Hamid to Tamim , FOUR , that 's nicely played ! Tad fuller and wider from Hassan , Tamim gets well forward , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and caresses it past cover-point for a boundary 2.4 Hamid to Tamim , 2 runs , Tamim is off the mark , Hassan gets his line wrong , shortens his length and angles one onto Tamim 's pads , flicked past square leg for a couple of runs 2.3 Hamid to Tamim , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Tamim gets a good stride forward and drives it towards cover-point 2.2 Hamid to Tamim , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Iqbal presses across and defends it 2.1 Hamid to Tamim , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Iqbal rides with the bounce and defends it with an angled bat 1.6 Shapoor to Anamul , no run , on another day this might have well crashed onto the stumps , Shapoor shortens his length and angles across Anamul , he was looking to pull and gets an inside edge onto the thigh pad 1.5 Shapoor to Anamul , no run , tad fuller and on that off-stump channel , not much movement on offer for Shapoor , defended with an angled bat towards point 1.4 Shapoor to Tamim , leg byes , 1 run , too straight from Shapoor , ends up drifting onto Iqbal 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball goes off the pads towards square leg 1.3 Shapoor to Tamim , no run , short of a length and angling onto Iqbal 's ribs , he hops across , rides with the bounce and is hit high on the thigh pad Two slips for Tamim as well 1.2 Shapoor to Anamul , 1 run , back of a length and in that corridor outside off , Anamul rides with the bounce and dabs it down towards third man for a single 1.1 Shapoor to Anamul , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Anamul prods forward in defence and gets a thick edge to the left of backward point Shapoor Zadran , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Two slips in place for Shapoor 0.6 Hamid to Tamim , no run , on a good length and on the stumps , Tamim presses across and defends it towards the on-side 0.5 Hamid to Tamim , no run , nicely bowled by Hassan , goes full and looks to shape it away from outside off , Tamim just about gets his bat down in time and jams it towards the off-side 0.4 Hamid to Anamul , 1 run , too straight from Hassan , ends up drifting onto Anamul 's pads , clipped away behind square on the on-side for a single 0.3 Hamid to Anamul , no run , extra bounce for Hassan , on a good length and holding its line around off , rears off a length and hits Anamul high on the bat 0.2 Hamid to Anamul , no run , tad fuller and angling back into Anamul , he shuffles across on the flick and is struck high on the thigh pad 0.1 Hamid to Anamul , no run , on a good length and a hint of nip away from off , Anamul is slightly opened up as he looks to defend , gets a thick edge towards gully 0.1 Hamid to Anamul , wide , an extra to start with , Hassan floats one full and gets it to shape away further , wide called by the umpire Anamul and Tamim are at the crease. Anamul is on strike. Hamid will open the attack Right , the anthems are over. The Afghanis are in the middle of the team huddle. Hamid Hassan , their opening bowler , is a contrast , with a head band and the Afghanistan flag painted on his cheeks. He will open the bowling as well . The team anthems are in progress . Afghanistan have won 8 ODIs since January 2014 , while Bangladesh , who are ranked ahead of them , have just won 5. Do n't count this as a low-key affair . Teams : Afghanistan ( Playing XI ) : Afsar Zazai ( w ) , Javed Ahmadi , Nawroz Mangal , Asghar Stanikzai , Samiullah Shenwari , Mohammad Nabi ( c ) , Najibullah Zadran , Mirwais Ashraf , Aftab Alam , Shapoor Zadran , Hamid Hassan Bangladesh ( Playing XI ) : Tamim Iqbal , Anamul Haque , Mominul Haque , Mushfiqur Rahim ( w ) , Sabbir Rahman , Shakib Al Hasan , Mahmudullah , Mashrafe Mortaza ( c ) , Soumya Sarkar , Rubel Hossain , Taskin Ahmed Bangladesh have won the toss and have opted to bat Mashrafe Mortaza : " First match is very important for everyone. It has been set up nicely. Hopefully we will do well today. We will bat first. It looks to be a very good track and hopefully we will make a good total. No changes to our side. " Mohammad Nabi : " This is our World Cup and it is very exciting. Everyone is fit and hopefully we will do well in the tournament. We have three fast bowlers in our side. Hopefully the ball will reverse after 25 overs and hopefully we will chase a low total. " Pitch Report : " It is a fantastic looking pitch , hardly a blade of grass on it. It is very hard and well rolled. We have cracks here and there. There can be a bit of crumbling. 300 would be a good score here and it will be a good chase as well. Afghanistan will compete , I think it will be even stevens ( on Afghanistan giving a fight to the Bangladesh batters ) . Build your innings and maximise the score. Perfect batting pitch. Win the toss and bat first " , reckon Russell Arnold and Ramiz Raja . We are just minutes away from the toss and team updates. How will the pitch play ? What will be a par score on this track ? Answers coming up in a short while . Weather : It is bright and sunny out there and the great news is that there is no forecast of rain during the course of the match. It is currently 27 degrees and the maximum is expected to be around 29 degrees . The story is quite different for Bangladesh though. They lost to Pakistan in their first match and then could n't conquer Ireland either. This puts a bit of extra pressure on the team , but with world-class players like Shakib Al Hasan and Mushfiqur Rahim in their ranks , they do n't have to look far ahead for inspiration. The team had an intense three-hour training session at the Manuka Oval a couple of days ago and with coach Chandika Hathurusinghe revealing before the tournament that his side is targetting a place in the quarterfinals , it is quite clear that Bangladesh want to make a statement in their first game . Building up to this game , there is no doubt that the momentum is with the Afghans. Although they went down to India in their first warm-up game , they made sure that India could n't bowl them out. A few days later , they posted over 300 and held their nerve to edge UAE by 14 runs in their second warm-up fixture. In fact , Afghanistan believe that they have the fast bowlers to exploit the pace and bounce and trouble the Bangladeshi batsmen , most of whom are short . Ever since 2008 , the rise of Afghanistan , who are making their World Cup debut , has been great. They were ranked as the top Associate nation just a few days ago , placed 11th in the ICC ODI rankings , ahead of Ireland , Scotland and Kenya. Their journey has been an inspiring story so far , considering that they emerge from a war-torn country . The mind games have already started ! Speaking ahead of the match , Afghanistan captain Mohammad Nabi said that Bangladesh are under pressure coming into this contest. Their coach Andy Moles has also said that his side will give a tough fight to Bangladesh. On the other hand , when reminded about Bangladesh 's loss at the hands of Afghanistan in the 2014 Asia Cup , captain Mashrafe Mortaza was quick to say that his side was not bothered by the defeat . 13 : 15 Local Time , 02 : 15 GMT , 07 : 45 IST : It 's time for Canberra to join the 2015 World Cup party as the picturesque Manuka Oval gears up to host its second ever World Cup match. We have Bangladesh taking on Afghanistan today in this Group A fixture. Well , these two teams might have the tag of 'minnows ' , but this contest has all the makings to be an exciting match , especially after Afghanistan 's win over Bangladesh in their own backyard last year . Preview : The sleepy town of Canberra will be shaken out of its slumber when the World Cup party reaches the Manuka Oval , which hosts the Pool A fixture between Bangladesh and Afghanistan. They may not be cream of the subcontinent but both teams are capable of putting up eye-catching performances in the hope to make a winning start to their campaign . While Afghanistan make their debut at Canberra and would look to impress , Bangladesh 's stay as an ICC Full Member has been filled with disappointments intertwined with the odd success. Mashrafe Mortaza 's men would look to invoke their 2007 campaign where they upset India in the tournament opener , and a winning start here would go a long way in boosting their confidence . Venue : Manuka Oval , Canberra
