That 's it from this game. We enjoyed bringing you this close encounter. We have a big game in Wellington tomorrow as New Zealand and England lock horns with each other. Looking forward to your company then. Take care. Goodbye ! Let 's take a look at some of the tweets : Aakash Chopra : UAE had their moments but their fielding and defensive captaincy let them down. Zimbabwe not convincing either # ChaseCricket @ AltoK10 Liam Brickhill : Well played Sean Williams , controlled the innings superbly. Clinical at the finish , Zim win by 4 wickets . Peter Miller : Best contest of the tournament so far by a distance. UAE have acquitted themselves brilliantly , classy innings from Williams . Ayaz Memon : Tight game. Zimbabwe tackled pressure to win but result may well have been different had UAE shown greater self belief & aggressive tactics Bharath Seervi : This is the 9th highest target successfully chased in World Cups # ZIMvsUAE # CWC15 Chigumbura : " Disappointed about the fielding today , I think we are a better side than that. I thought the guys played well with the bat. The good thing about our team is that we 've got eight batters. We lost five wickets , but we still had batters in the hut so there was not much of pressure. When Ervine went in to bat , he was positive and he pulled the run rate down , it made life easy for the rest of the batters. That 's where we went wrong against South Africa , but today we showed some improvement on that. It 's good to take the momentum from this game into our next match against West Indies. Hopefully we improve our fielding and have a good game. " Tauqir : " Firstly , congratulations to Zimbabwe for winning the game. I think we played some good cricket , but we were expecting a different result. Even 300 was not enough on this wicket in the last game , but we know our limitations. We know if we can score 280-300 we can restrict the opposition. They bowled and batted well , and they won the game. I think overall the bowlers bowled well. One crucial partnership between both the left-handers ( Sean Williams and Craig Ervine ) saw them through. If one of them would have got out , I think it would have been a different result. It was a good learning experience for both the batters and the bowlers. We would like to put up a positive performance in the coming games. " Williams : " I tried not to feel the pressure. We lost wickets at the wrong stages of the game , but just felt that the wicket was really good to knock the ball down the ground. The coach and I were discussing about playing the sweeps and punches down the ground while building the innings. We focused on having wickets at the end and rotating the strike as much as possible and the plan worked for us. Some of their bowlers bowled well , credit to them. It was difficult to play across the line on this surface. It 's a learning curve for us , I have n't played many games and hopefully I 'll get better. " Sean Williams is the Man of the Match for his 76 With the ball too , Naveed and Javed started on a good note. In particular , Naveed generated away-swing and by flicking his wrist , surprised Zimbabwe 's batsmen for a bit of pace. It was Sikandar Raza , who initially looked to take on UAE 's bowlers. However , once he was dismissed , Zimbabwe lost a slew of wickets. Regis Chakabva playing out a lot of dot deliveries did n't help their cause either. To make it worse for them , Taylor was given out LBW. Taylor took a review , but the Hawk-Eye suggested that it was going on to hit the leg-stump. Ervine and Williams though , with their sterling efforts , eventually helped Zimbabwe win by 4 wickets. Zimbabwe will play their next match against the West Indies in Canberra. On the other hand , UAE will take on Ireland in Brisbane . Earlier , after Zimbabwe won the toss and inserted the opposition in , UAE showed that they were no pushovers. The 43-year-old Khurram Khan played a free-flowing innings of 45. Shaiman Anwar , known for his power-hitting , burst forth with a wide range of shots to take UAE to a competitive total of 285 for 7. Swapnil Patil , Karate , Mohammad Naveed and Amjad Javed also played key knocks . On the back of Sean Williams ' enterprising innings of 76 not out , Zimbabwe beat UAE in a keenly contested game. In a match that went right down to the wire , Williams and Ervine played with a mature head on their shoulders to steer Zimbabwe to victory. If we look back at the match when Solomon Mire 's wicket was snared by Mohammad Naveed , Zimbabwe were in a spot of bother at 167 for 5. But Ervine and Williams played fearless cricket. It was Ervine , who made his intentions clear by smashing Krishnachandran Karate for a six over deep mid-wicket. On the other hand , Williams used his feet and the slog sweep to collect boundaries . Williams and Chigumbura hug each other. Coach Dav Whatmore is a delighted man and the entire Zimbabwe dug out is happy. The Zimbabwean fans are ecstatic in the stands as well. The Zimbabwean players come down and shake hands with their opponents. They have now registered their first win of the 2015 Cricket World Cup . 47.6 Naveed to Sean Williams , FOUR , that 's it ! This is the highest successful run chase for Zimbabwe in World Cup cricket. They have avoided a humiliating loss. What a classy shot to get them past the line. Fullish and just outside off stump , leans forward and punches it beautifully off the front foot , it almost hit the stumps at the bowler 's end , before racing away to the boundary 47.5 Naveed to Sean Williams , FOUR , again too short and this time connects well with the pull shot ! There is no one at deep mid-wicket for some reason and Williams hits that big gap 47.4 Naveed to Sean Williams , FOUR , ca n't bowl short and down the leg-side with fine leg inside the ring. Williams swivels and helps it away fine , the ball hit the splice of the bat , but it went fine enough to beat the fielder 47.3 Naveed to Sean Williams , 2 runs , Naveed drags this short , Williams opts for the pull , mistimes it , but it lands safely at deep mid-wicket 47.2 Naveed to Chigumbura , 1 run , full delivery on the off stump , Chigumbura drills it down to long-on 47.1 Naveed to Sean Williams , 1 run , good length delivery on the off stump , Williams punches it to mid-off Mohammad Naveed [ 9.0-1-44-1 ] is back into the attack Just 16 needed off 18 balls. This is now Zimbabwe 's match to lose . 46.6 Karate to Chigumbura , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , the slower ball in fact , Chigumbura mistimes the pull to the left of mid-wicket 46.5 Karate to Chigumbura , FOUR , that 's a timely blow from Chigumbura. This slower ball goes very short , Chigumbura delays the cut shot , gets the placement right and sends it to the right of backward point 46.4 Karate to Chigumbura , no run , good length delivery on the stumps , Chigumbura punches it to mid-wicket 46.3 Karate to Sean Williams , 1 run , pace off the ball on this yorker , driven down to long-off 46.2 Karate to Sean Williams , 2 runs , slower ball , chipped in the air but it clears the bowler , long-off rushes in but the batsmen are quick enough to pinch two 46.1 Karate to Sean Williams , no run , Karate is very lucky to get away with a friendly ball down the leg-side as Williams flicks it straight to short fine leg 45.6 Amjad Javed to Chigumbura , FOUR , he gets it in the gap and it escapes to the boundary ! Javed just loses his line , bowls a juicy full ball wide outside off stump , Chigumbura leans forward and square-drives the ball along the ground between cover-point and backward point 45.5 Amjad Javed to Chigumbura , no run , good fielding at short mid-wicket. Full and on the off stump , Chigumbura gets the inside half of the bat on the drive , the fielder throws himself to his left and stops the ball 45.4 Amjad Javed to Sean Williams , 1 run , full and outside off stump , gently driven down to long-off 45.3 Amjad Javed to Chigumbura , 1 run , short of length delivery down the leg-side , tucked away to mid-wicket 45.2 Amjad Javed to Sean Williams , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Williams drives it down to long-off Round the wicket to the left-hander . 45.1 Amjad Javed to Chigumbura , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Chigumbura chops the cut just beside the pitch , Sean Williams calls for a run and makes his ground before the keeper under-arms the ball onto the sticks 44.6 Karate to Chigumbura , 1 run , full and around the leg stump , Chigumbura drives it down to long-on 44.5 Karate to Chigumbura , no run , pace off the ball again , Chigumbura could only punch it back to the bowler 44.4 Karate to Chigumbura , no run , slower ball on the stumps , Chigumbura tucks it into the on-side 44.3 Karate to Chigumbura , 2 runs , Chigumbura cuts very well , but the fielder at sweeper cover does extremely well to run to his left and save two with a dive 44.2 Karate to Sean Williams , 1 run , slower ball outside off stump , driven to long-on 44.1 Karate to Sean Williams , no run , full and outside off stump , driven to cover The equation is down to 35 off 36 balls . 43.6 Amjad Javed to Chigumbura , no run , was there an outside edge ? No , there was n't ! A nervy drive attempted away from the body , it was full and way outside off stump , the ball beats Chigumbura comprehensively in the end 43.5 Amjad Javed to Chigumbura , no run , full and outside off stump , Chigumbura checks the drive and sends it back to the bowler 43.4 Amjad Javed to Chigumbura , no run , on the leg stump , Chigumbura flicks it to mid-wicket 43.3 Amjad Javed to Sean Williams , 1 run , low full toss , punched down to long-off 43.2 Amjad Javed to Sean Williams , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , defended to point 43.1 Amjad Javed to Sean Williams , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , tapped back to the bowler Elton Chigumbura , right handed bat , comes to the crease The hard-hitting Chigumbura strides out . 42.6 Karate to C Ervine , out Caught&Bowled ! ! Oh ! That is a very soft dismissal. Is there a twist in the tale ? Slower delivery pitching around the off stump , Ervine checks his push , maybe it stopped on him and he ends up chipping it straight back to the bowler , who grabs it to his left in his followthrough. In fact , the ball took a sort of a leading edge as he closed the face of the bat. That ends a vital 83-run stand. C Ervine c and b Karate 42 ( 32 ) [ 4s-2 6s-2 ] Karate to C Ervine , THATS OUT ! ! Caught&Bowled ! ! 42.5 Karate to Sean Williams , 1 run , rolls his fingers over this length ball , punched to long-off and the 250 comes up for Zimbabwe 42.4 Karate to C Ervine , 1 run , on the leg stump , tucked away to deep square leg 42.3 Karate to C Ervine , FOUR , that 's in the air , but it 's in the gap. Slower ball goes short , Ervine backs away , delays the cut shot , ends up slicing it in the end , the ball bisects cover-point and backward point to perfection 42.2 Karate to C Ervine , 2 runs , easily done ! Does n't try to overhit the full ball , just places the drive wide of long-off and it 's good enough for a couple of runs 42.1 Karate to Sean Williams , 1 run , attempts the widish yorker , but Williams reaches out and drives it to long-off Krishnachandran Karate [ 6.0-0-39-0 ] is back into the attack What a great over ! Just 2 singles in it . 41.6 Amjad Javed to Sean Williams , 1 run , very full , driven down to long-on 41.5 Amjad Javed to Sean Williams , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Williams defends it into the off-side 41.4 Amjad Javed to Sean Williams , no run , full and on the off stump , defended gently into the off-side 41.3 Amjad Javed to Sean Williams , no run , slants this fuller length delivery into the left-hander , defended to cover 41.2 Amjad Javed to Sean Williams , no run , almost a yorker , dug out to mid-wicket 41.1 Amjad Javed to C Ervine , 1 run , full and outside off stump , driven to sweeper-cover Amjad Javed [ 6.0-0-38-1 ] is back into the attack Zimbabwe need 47 off 54 balls. UAE desperately need to break this stand ! 40.6 Naveed to C Ervine , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Ervine looks to drive but gets an inside edge that rolls to square leg 40.5 Naveed to Sean Williams , 1 run , good length delivery outside off stump , punched to cover-point and it 's another misfield from UAE 40.4 Naveed to Sean Williams , FOUR , sloppy fielding. Williams gets to his 18th ODI fifty. He 's played a great innings under pressure. Williams flicks this along the ground , mid-on runs to his left and tries to stop the ball with a dive , but fumbles 40.3 Naveed to Sean Williams , 2 runs , driven very hard to deep extra-cover and that 's good enough for a couple of runs 40.3 Naveed to Sean Williams , wide , another wide outside off stump. Maybe Naveed is trying to bowl that widish yorker , but he 's not getting it right 40.2 Naveed to Sean Williams , FOUR , no one at deep mid-wicket and Williams has made full use of it. A nothing short ball from Naveed , Williams pulls well and sends it along the ground. Looks like UAE have lost hope. Their body language is not looking great 40.1 Naveed to Sean Williams , 2 runs , sensible batting ! Just defends the short of length delivery with an angled bat and sends it to the right of backward point , calls for two and makes his ground 40.1 Naveed to Sean Williams , wide , and again , way outside off stump , UAE are feeling the pressure 40.1 Naveed to Sean Williams , wide , full and wide outside off stump , Williams lets it go and it 's an easy call for the umpire Mohammad Naveed [ 8.0-1-27-1 ] is back into the attack Zimbabwe have scored 45/0 in the 5-over batting powerplay and the momentum is with them now . 39.6 Rohan Mustafa to C Ervine , FOUR , slapped in the air but safe ! Slower ball short and outside off stump , Ervine backs away and does n't get the connection right , hits it in the air and luckily for him , it goes in the gap between extra-cover and cover 39.5 Rohan Mustafa to C Ervine , no run , full and outside off stump , driven back to the bowler 39.4 Rohan Mustafa to Sean Williams , 1 run , drilled down to long-on 39.3 Rohan Mustafa to C Ervine , 1 run , a fantastic yorker , right on the money , Ervine digs it out and brings up the fifty partnership off just 41 balls 39.2 Rohan Mustafa to C Ervine , 2 runs , he 's timed that slog nicely , long-on runs quickly to his right to save two runs 39.1 Rohan Mustafa to C Ervine , no run , full and outside off stump , Ervine pushes it back to the bowler Rohan Mustafa , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 38.6 Karate to Sean Williams , 2 runs , slower ball again , Williams flicks it along the ground to deep mid-wicket for a couple of runs. Zimbabwe are going nicely , they 've scored 37 runs off the last four overs 38.5 Karate to Sean Williams , FOUR , this time Williams slogs one over mid-wicket. Has that carried all the way ? No it has just bounced inside the boundary cushion. Ca n't really bowl full at Karate 's pace and he pays the penalty 38.4 Karate to C Ervine , 1 run , driven away to long-on 38.3 Karate to C Ervine , SIX , my word ! He 's bludgeoned that ! It was an authoritative shot from Ervine. Karate bangs the slower ball short , Ervine picked it early , he had so much time to camp on the back foot , in fact it took a while to reach him and as it arrived , he absolutely gave it all on the slog and it flew over deep mid-wicket 38.2 Karate to C Ervine , no run , fullish and outside off stump , driven to cover 38.1 Karate to Sean Williams , 1 run , slower delivery outside off stump , Williams works it wide of long-on 37.6 Aziz to Sean Williams , 1 run , 'catch it ' is the cry , but I am not sure if it carried to the fielder at extra-cover. Williams danced down the track for the inside-out drive , he did n't hit the gap and hit it in the air as well , the fielder dived low to his left but looks like it did n't carry to him 37.5 Aziz to C Ervine , 1 run , on the leg stump , driven to long-on 37.4 Aziz to Sean Williams , 1 run , Williams allows the ball to spin away , before driving it safely to long-off 37.3 Aziz to Sean Williams , FOUR , wonderful hit ! Flighted delivery on the off stump , Williams gets to the pitch of the ball by using his feet and slogs it over mid-wicket , it goes flat and almost clears the boundary 37.2 Aziz to C Ervine , 1 run , too full and easily driven to long-off 37.1 Aziz to Sean Williams , 1 run , flighted delivery on the off stump , Williams steps out and drives it to long-off 36.6 Karate to C Ervine , no run , slower delivery just outside off stump , Ervine guides it to point 36.5 Karate to C Ervine , no run , short enough for Ervine to hang back and punch to extra-cover 36.4 Karate to Sean Williams , 1 run , driven off the back foot to long-off 36.3 Karate to C Ervine , 1 run , poor line , down the leg-side , glanced away through backward square leg 36.2 Karate to C Ervine , SIX , just a flick of the wrists and it goes all the way. Full and in the slot , asking for trouble , the leg stump line made life very easy for Ervine , who simply picks it away over backward square leg for a maximum 36.1 Karate to C Ervine , no run , Ervine goes leg-side , but only manages to mistime this good length delivery towards cover 35.6 Aziz to C Ervine , 3 runs , innovative shot from Ervine. He gets down low on his knees and paddles this flighted delivery , in fact he took it on the full , the ball goes fine and short fine leg gives chase. The batsmen run hard and complete three 35.5 Aziz to C Ervine , no run , Ervine backs away and punches this flatter ball to extra-cover 35.4 Aziz to Sean Williams , 1 run , fires this is around the leg stump line , Williams drills it straight to long-on 35.3 Aziz to C Ervine , 1 run , tossed up this time , Ervine drives it just wide of long-on 35.2 Aziz to Sean Williams , 1 run , neatly taps this flatter delivery along the ground to long-on 35.1 Aziz to Sean Williams , no run , flatter ball from round the wicket , punched back to the bowler Batting powerplay has been enforced . This is still not out of Zimbabwe 's reach. They need these two to carry until 42 overs. Remember , Chigumbura is yet to come and he can hit the ball long and hard. We are heading for a tense finish ! However , for a brief period , Brendan Taylor , with a stamp of effortless batsmanship played sweeps and reverse sweeps to find gaps with needlepoint precision and lift the sagging morale of Zimbabwe. Aziz then , snared the wicket of Taylor by dismissing him LBW. Taylor took the review , but the Hawk-Eye suggested that the ball was going on to hit the leg-stump and Taylor had to take a long walk back to the pavilion. To make it worse for Zimbabwe , Solomon Mire 's wicket was taken by Mohammad Naveed. Zimbabwe certainly need Sean Williams to play with composure for them to win the game . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the last 18 overs : UAE 's spinners , Mohammad Tauqir and Nasir Aziz , bowled to the field that was set and picked up crucial wickets to give them a genuine chance of winning the game. Regis Chakabva , who struggled for timing was dismissed hit-wicket for a painstaking innings of 35 . Time for drinks . 34.6 Karate to Sean Williams , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Williams punches it to long-off 34.5 Karate to Sean Williams , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Williams shoulders arms 34.4 Karate to C Ervine , 1 run , slower delivery outside off stump , punched to the right of the bowler to long-off 34.3 Karate to C Ervine , no run , good length delivery just outside off stump , defended back to the bowler again 34.2 Karate to C Ervine , no run , full and outside off stump , Ervine drives it back to the bowler 34.1 Karate to C Ervine , no run , starts his new spell with a length ball from over the wicket , Ervine defends late and sends it towards backward point Krishnachandran Karate [ 3.0-0-15-0 ] is back into the attack 33.6 Aziz to Sean Williams , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Williams defends it to cover 33.5 Aziz to Sean Williams , 2 runs , a drop-and-run single attempted , oh this could be trouble at the bowler 's end and the throw is poor. In fact , they get one more run for the over throw. Williams tapped this flighted delivery to the right of cover and set off 33.4 Aziz to C Ervine , 1 run , on the leg stump , worked away to backward square leg 33.3 Aziz to Sean Williams , 1 run , too full and easily driven to long-off 33.2 Aziz to Sean Williams , no run , Williams opts for the sweep , but he gets a thick bottom edge and it rolls to short fine leg 33.1 Aziz to C Ervine , 1 run , stays round the wicket , flighted delivery on the off stump , driven along the ground to long-on 32.6 Naveed to C Ervine , 3 runs , driven along the ground to deep extra-cover , Ervine wants three , rushes back for the third , the throw was poor at the bowler 's end and he makes his ground easily in the end. A better throw would have been very , very close 32.5 Naveed to C Ervine , no run , Ervine defends this from the crease Craig Ervine , left handed bat , comes to the crease 32.4 Naveed to Solomon Mire , out Caught by Swapnil Patil ! ! Has the ball started to reverse ? This certainly swung away from the batsman. Clever stuff from the bowler. He angled a few balls into the right-hander earlier in the over and now he took this away. Mire was feeling for the ball away from the body and the away-going ball took a healthy edge , which was safely held by the keeper. Zimbabwe are 167/5 now. Naveed finally gets his first wicket , he has bowled well. Solomon Mire c Swapnil Patil b Naveed 9 ( 22 ) Naveed to Solomon Mire , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 32.3 Naveed to Solomon Mire , no run , Mire is swinging hard ! Slower ball from Naveed , at just 109kph , Mire slogs and gets an inside edge onto thigh pad 32.2 Naveed to Solomon Mire , no run , mistimes the punch towards mid-wicket 32.1 Naveed to Solomon Mire , no run , shout for LBW , not given , the bowler has a chat with the keeper about the review and they decide against it. Full and angling into the right-hander , Mire misses the drive and gets hit on the front pad. The impact was outside leg stump. Wisely , UAE opt not to review that 31.6 Aziz to Sean Williams , no run , floats this up outside off stump , it grips and turns away , Williams looks to push off the front foot and gets an outside edge that rolls along the ground to short third man 31.5 Aziz to Sean Williams , no run , yorker on the off stump , Williams digs it out 31.4 Aziz to Solomon Mire , 1 run , on the off stump , Mire flicks it along the ground to deep mid-wicket 31.3 Aziz to Solomon Mire , no run , no flight whatsoever on this one , defended back to Aziz 31.2 Aziz to Solomon Mire , no run , oh he 's hit that very hard , but the bowler did very well to stop the ball 31.1 Aziz to Sean Williams , 1 run , round the wicket , flatter ball on the off stump , punched off the back foot to long-on 30.6 Naveed to Sean Williams , 1 run , taps this short of length delivery to short-cover and sets off for a sharp run 30.5 Naveed to Solomon Mire , 1 run , drives the fuller length delivery with an angled bat to deep point 30.4 Naveed to Solomon Mire , no run , full and on the leg stump , defended to mid-on 30.3 Naveed to Sean Williams , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Williams drives it easily off the front foot through cover 30.2 Naveed to Solomon Mire , 1 run , punched along the ground to sweeper cover 30.1 Naveed to Solomon Mire , leg byes , FOUR , bad start to his spell for Naveed. Full toss down the leg-side , Mire misses the flick , the ball runs away off the thigh pad to the fine leg boundary Mohammad Naveed [ 6.0-1-20-0 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Aziz to Sean Williams , no run , full around off , Williams drives it into the covers region 29.5 Aziz to Sean Williams , no run , Williams comes on the front foot and looks to drive , the ball turns back in and takes the inside edge of the bat , he almost chopped that back on Aziz is coming round the wicket to the left-hander 29.4 Aziz to Solomon Mire , 1 run , full around off , Mire presses in front and drives it to long-off 29.3 Aziz to Solomon Mire , no run , hangs back and punches it to the left of the bowler 29.2 Aziz to Solomon Mire , no run , looks to punch it through the off-side but misses and the ball goes through to the keeper 29.1 Aziz to Solomon Mire , 2 runs , full on middle and off , Mire works it to mid-wicket , a slight fumble there allows the batsmen to get the second 28.6 M Tauqir to Sean Williams , SIX , good-looking shot by Williams ! He skips out and heaves this flighted delivery over the deep mid-wicket fence 28.5 M Tauqir to Solomon Mire , 1 run , shuffles across and flicks it off the pads to deep backward square leg 28.4 M Tauqir to Sean Williams , 1 run , full and just outside off , Williams softly drives it to long-off 28.3 M Tauqir to Solomon Mire , 1 run , gets forward and pushes it to cover , scampers through for a quick single , the cover fielder has a shy at the non-striker 's end by Mire is comfortably in 28.2 M Tauqir to Solomon Mire , no run , hangs back and turns it to the left of Tauqir , who moves across and fields it 28.1 M Tauqir to Solomon Mire , no run , slower on off , Mire punches it back , almost chipped it towards Tauqir 27.6 Aziz to Solomon Mire , 1 run , moves across a touch and works it to long-on 27.5 Aziz to Solomon Mire , no run , gets forward and drives it into the off-side 27.4 Aziz to Solomon Mire , no run , punches it towards mid-off Solomon Mire , right handed bat , comes to the crease 27.3 Aziz to Brendan Taylor , out Lbw ! ! Big wicket for UAE , Taylor was looking in fine touch. The ball goes on with the arm as Taylor shuffles across and looks to sweep , he misses and is rapped on the pads. The impact was on middle and leg and the ball was going on to hit the leg-stump. It was a good call by the umpire. Brendan Taylor lbw b Aziz 47 ( 44 ) [ 4s-5 6s-1 ] Aziz to Brendan Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Brendan Taylor has been given out lbw. He discusses with his partner and has reviewed the call. No problem with Aziz 's front foot. Taylor had gone across and he thought that it might be sliding down. Nothing on Snicko. The impact seems to be on middle and leg. The third umpire is taking a lot of time on this one. Hawk-Eye shows three reds ! Taylor has to go ! 27.2 Aziz to Brendan Taylor , no run , comes on the front foot and blocks it into the leg-side 27.1 Aziz to Brendan Taylor , 2 runs , flighted and closer to the off-stump , Taylor presses forward to defend but the ball takes the outside edge and rolls through the vacant slip region towards third man 26.6 M Tauqir to Sean Williams , no run , steps out of the crease and drives it back to the bowler 26.5 M Tauqir to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , drifts it on the pads , Taylor wrists it to mid-wicket 26.4 M Tauqir to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , shortish , wide and punished by Taylor ! He makes room to this delivery and cuts it powerfully to the deep backward point fence 26.3 M Tauqir to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , shuffles across , gets down on one knee and drags the sweep towards fine leg , Amjad Javed makes a mess at the rope , he bends down to pick up the ball but does not get his hands to it as the ball goes between his legs and crosses the fence 26.2 M Tauqir to Sean Williams , 1 run , gets down on one knee and sweeps it to deep square leg 26.1 M Tauqir to Sean Williams , no run , clips it to mid-wicket 25.6 Aziz to Brendan Taylor , no run , leans forward and flicks it towards mid-wicket 25.5 Aziz to Brendan Taylor , no run , advances and does not get to the pitch of the ball and pads it into the off-side 25.4 Aziz to Brendan Taylor , no run , gets forward and forces it to the left of the bowler , Aziz puts in a dive and parries the ball to cover 25.3 Aziz to Brendan Taylor , SIX , fantastic shot from Taylor ! He comes charging down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and lofts it over the long-on fence for a maximum 25.2 Aziz to Brendan Taylor , no run , gets forward and pushes it into the off-side 25.1 Aziz to Brendan Taylor , no run , flighted on off , Taylor defends it to the right of the bowler , who moves across quickly and fields it 24.6 M Tauqir to Sean Williams , no run , flighted around off , Williams drives it softly towards cover 24.5 M Tauqir to Sean Williams , no run , presses forward and defends it with an angled bat towards cover 24.4 M Tauqir to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , comes forward and drives it to long-on 24.3 M Tauqir to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , Taylor brings out his favourite shot ! He lunges forward , gets down on one knee and reverse sweeps it to the third man fence to get his 3rd boundary 24.2 M Tauqir to Brendan Taylor , no run , turns it just in front of square on the leg-side 24.1 M Tauqir to Brendan Taylor , no run , shuffles across and works it off the pads to square leg 23.6 Aziz to Sean Williams , no run , full around off , Williams pushes it to the right of the bowler , who moves across and cuts it off 23.5 Aziz to Sean Williams , no run , punches it to cover 23.4 Aziz to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , gets down on one knee and mistimes the sweep to fine leg 23.3 Aziz to Brendan Taylor , no run , flighted on off , Taylor leans forward and clips it towards mid-wicket 23.2 Aziz to Brendan Taylor , 2 runs , outside off , Taylor shuffles across , gets down and drags the sweep to fine leg 23.1 Aziz to Sean Williams , 1 run , full on off , Williams punches it to long-on for a comfortable single 22.6 M Tauqir to Sean Williams , 3 runs , comes on the front foot and drives it to sweeper cover , good fielding at the rope as the fielder slides and drags the ball back in 22.5 M Tauqir to Sean Williams , no run , fullish around off , Williams drives it firmly to the man at extra cover 22.4 M Tauqir to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , gets forward and works it to long-on 22.3 M Tauqir to Brendan Taylor , no run , steps out of the crease and turns it towards mid-wicket 22.2 M Tauqir to Sean Williams , 1 run , helps it to backward point and gets off the mark Sean Williams , left handed bat , comes to the crease 22.1 M Tauqir to Chakabva , out Hit Wkt ! ! Oh dear ! What has Chakabva done ? He has gone too deep inside the crease and lost his footing. Tauqir appeals in delight , a bonus wicket for UAE that ! It was a shortish one from the bowler , Chakabva goes way back into the crease in an attempt to flick it into the on-side , slips and his left leg slams into the stumps. Chakabva hit wkt b M Tauqir 35 ( 62 ) [ 4s-4 ] M Tauqir to Chakabva , THATS OUT ! ! Hit Wkt ! ! 21.6 Karate to Chakabva , 1 run , length ball coming back into the batsman , Chakabva deftly turns it through backward square leg 21.5 Karate to Chakabva , no run , hangs back and works it off the pads towards mid-on 21.4 Karate to Chakabva , 2 runs , around off , Chakabva shuffles across and works it through backward square leg for a brace 21.3 Karate to Chakabva , no run , hangs back and punches it to mid-wicket 21.2 Karate to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , Taylor comes on the front foot and drives it to long-off 21.1 Karate to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , short of length and outside off , Taylor opens the face of his bat and guides it to third man 20.6 M Tauqir to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , this time gets through the gap and works it to mid-wicket for a single 20.5 M Tauqir to Brendan Taylor , no run , leans forward and flicks to mid-wicket once again 20.4 M Tauqir to Brendan Taylor , no run , on middle , Taylor flicks it to mid-wicket 20.3 M Tauqir to Brendan Taylor , no run , on middle and leg , Taylor leans forward and turns it in front of square on the leg-side 20.2 M Tauqir to Chakabva , 1 run , stays on the back foot and punches it to long-off 20.1 M Tauqir to Chakabva , FOUR , drifts it on middle and leg , Chakabva gets down on one knee and slog sweeps it to the deep backward square leg fence 19.6 Karate to Chakabva , 1 run , flighted ball outside off stump , the batsman goes across the stumps and misses the sweep. Gets hit on the pad , but was well outside off stump , Taylor wants a run and Chakabva was late to respond. The keeper fires a throw at the bowler 's end but it is well wide of the stumps. It looked like a leg bye but the umpire reckons there was bat involved 19.5 Karate to Chakabva , no run , stays back and punches it towards mid-on 19.4 Karate to Chakabva , no run , gets forward and looks to drive , the ball whistles past the outside edge and goes through to the keeper 19.3 Karate to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , gets down on one knee and looks to sweep , the ball lobs off the top-edge and goes over the keeper 19.2 Karate to Chakabva , 1 run , full on off , Chakabva drives it off the inside half of the bat towards long-on 19.1 Karate to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , short of length on off , Taylor goes back and pulls it to deep mid-wicket , finds the fielder 18.6 M Tauqir to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , skips out of the crease and wrists it to mid-wicket to retain strike 18.5 M Tauqir to Brendan Taylor , no run , lunges forward and works it behind square 18.4 M Tauqir to Chakabva , 1 run , sweeps it off his pads through backward square leg 18.3 M Tauqir to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , steps out and on-drives it to long-on for a comfortable single 18.2 M Tauqir to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , nicely played by Taylor , he always plays this shot so well. He is quick to get down on one knee and reverse sweeps it to the third man fence 18.1 M Tauqir to Brendan Taylor , no run , full around off , Taylor gets forward and drives it towards cover-point Time for a drinks break ! 17.6 Karate to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , pitched up on off and middle , Taylor drives it down the ground to long-on 17.5 Karate to Brendan Taylor , no run , on a length just outside off , Taylor kneels down and looks to sweep , he misses and the keeper also does not glove the ball cleanly 17.4 Karate to Chakabva , 1 run , dropped ! It was a return chance and Karate took it easy. Fullish and on off , the ball holds up , Chakabva checks his shot and drives it uppishly to the right of the bowler , Karate sticks out his hand and gets a fingertip , the ball almost deflects onto the non-striker 's stumps , had that hit Taylor would have been out as he was backing up. So , both batsmen survive 17.3 Karate to Chakabva , no run , swing in the air and leaves the batsman late , Chakabva pushes at it and the ball goes off the outside edge to short third man 17.2 Karate to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , fuller and angling in , Taylor clips it away to deep mid-wicket 17.1 Karate to Brendan Taylor , no run , good length ball on off , defended to the right of the bowler Krishnachandran Karate , right-arm medium , comes into the attack It was Raza , who eventually decided to break the shackles by looking to play shots. Initially , Raza struggled for timing before he essayed a couple of glorious boundaries off Javed 's bowling. Raza used his feet to thwack a boundary over extra cover. It forced Javed to alter his length and bowl short. Raza duly took advantage of it with a sumptuous cut shot. Raza followed it up with a majestic pull shot off Naveed 's bowling over backward square-leg for a six. It was Mohammad Tauqir , the off-spinner , who finally dismissed Raza for a stirring knock of 46. Javed then snared the wicket of Hamilton Masakadza . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the first 17 overs : Mohammad Naveed and Amjad Javed bowled with zest and vigour to keep Zimbabwe 's batsmen on their toes for a few overs. Naveed , with a whippy action , generated away-swing. Both the seamers also flicked their wrist to surprise Sikandar Raza and Regis Chakabva for a bit of pace. Javed even hit Raza on the head with a skiddy bouncer . 16.6 M Tauqir to Chakabva , no run , tucked off the back foot to short mid-wicket , straight to the fielder 16.5 M Tauqir to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , tossed up on off , Taylor eases it past a diving mid-wicket and down to long-on 16.4 M Tauqir to Brendan Taylor , no run , slower on off and middle , Taylor works it softly towards square leg 16.3 M Tauqir to Brendan Taylor , no run , throws this up on off , Taylor presses forward and dead-bats it down the wicket 16.2 M Tauqir to Chakabva , 1 run , shortens the length , Chakabva goes back and wrists it wide of mid-wicket 16.1 M Tauqir to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , flighted on off , Taylor leans forward and nudges it to deep mid-wicket 15.6 Amjad Javed to Chakabva , no run , back of a length on off , Chakabva jams it onto the pads and the ball trickles towards point 15.6 Amjad Javed to Chakabva , wide , bumper down leg , Chakabva sees it sailing over him 15.5 Amjad Javed to Chakabva , no run , on a length just outside off , Chakabva watches it go past him and settle into Patil 's gloves 15.4 Amjad Javed to Chakabva , FOUR , fabulous shot ! That is the best shot he has played in this innings. Full on off and middle , Chakabva presents the straight bat and drives it to the right of mid-on , the timing kept taking it away from the fielder 15.3 Amjad Javed to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , back of a length on off , Taylor turns it wide of mid-wicket and gets to the other end 15.2 Amjad Javed to Brendan Taylor , 2 runs , wrong line from Javed , drifts it onto the pads , Taylor tickles it fine for a couple 15.2 Amjad Javed to Brendan Taylor , wide , splays it down leg , Taylor lets it pass , easy call for the umpire Brendan Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 15.1 Amjad Javed to H Masakadza , out Lbw ! ! Massive wicket ! All the UAE players rush to Javed to congratulate him. They know the importance of this wicket. It was a good length delivery on the stumps that straightened a touch , Masakadza played all round it , missed and was struck plumb in front. The umpire had no hesitation and raised his finger in a flash. Masakadza did n't even bother to discuss about the review. He knew he was gone. H Masakadza lbw b Amjad Javed 1 ( 4 ) Amjad Javed to H Masakadza , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 14.6 M Tauqir to H Masakadza , 1 run , nicely floated up on off and middle , Masakadza kneels down and paddles it to long leg 14.5 M Tauqir to Chakabva , 1 run , a misfield and Chakabva gets a single , punches it towards short mid-wicket , the fielder overruns and allows the ball to go past him 14.4 M Tauqir to Chakabva , no run , spins back in , Chakabva goes back and knocks it back to the bowler 14.4 M Tauqir to Chakabva , wide , that 's a tough call from the umpire , Chakabva moves across the stumps , misses the paddle sweep. If he had stood his ground , then it would have not been a wide 14.3 M Tauqir to Chakabva , no run , again , plays a nice looking drive to short mid-wicket 14.2 M Tauqir to Chakabva , no run , drives the tossed up delivery straight to short mid-wicket 14.1 M Tauqir to Chakabva , no run , flighted on middle , Chakabva closes the bat face early as he tries to work it through the on-side , the leading edge lands just in front of the bowler 13.6 Amjad Javed to H Masakadza , no run , pitched up and moving away , Masakadza hoists his bat up and lets it go 13.5 Amjad Javed to H Masakadza , no run , fuller and shaping away outside off , Masakadza covers the line and shoulders arms 13.4 Amjad Javed to Chakabva , leg byes , 1 run , shuffles a long way across his stumps , misses the nurdle and the ball dribbles off the thigh pad to fine leg 13.3 Amjad Javed to Chakabva , no run , back of a length on off , Chakabva defends off the inside part to the on-side 13.2 Amjad Javed to Chakabva , FOUR , poor delivery from Javed , strays down leg and Chakabva puts it away with ease , gets inside the line and glances it fine , the fielder was square and had no chance of cutting that off 13.1 Amjad Javed to Chakabva , no run , Javed goes for a caught behind appeal , but the umpire is not convinced. It was back of a length around off , Chakabva misses the steer down to third man , Patil takes it low and to his left. The Snicko confirms that there was no edge Amjad Javed [ 4.0-0-25-0 ] is back into the attack Hamilton Masakadza , right handed bat , comes to the crease 12.6 M Tauqir to S Raza , out Caught by Karate ! ! Raza has thrown it away. Chakabva was not scoring freely and the pressure has got to Raza. He tried to manufacture a shot and perished , it was not all that short , Raza goes deep in the crease and cuts , the ball takes the outer half of the bat and flies to backward point , where Karate takes a simple catch. UAE needed that wicket. S Raza c Karate b M Tauqir 46 ( 44 ) [ 4s-6 6s-1 ] M Tauqir to S Raza , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 12.5 M Tauqir to Chakabva , 1 run , slower and on off , Chakabva eases the drive to long-off 12.4 M Tauqir to S Raza , 1 run , drifts it down leg , Raza goes down on his knee and top-edges the sweep to long leg. That would have been a wide had he let it go 12.3 M Tauqir to S Raza , no run , worked away with the turn to the man at backward square leg 12.2 M Tauqir to Chakabva , 1 run , flatter and on off , Chakabva goes back and punches it to long-on 12.1 M Tauqir to Chakabva , no run , fraction short , Chakabva cuts it off the stumps to point , finds the fielder there Mohammad Tauqir , comes into the attack 11.6 Aziz to S Raza , no run , slower and outside off , Raza lunges forward and drops it to the off-side 11.5 Aziz to Chakabva , 1 run , nudged away wide of mid-wicket for a single 11.4 Aziz to Chakabva , no run , turns it gently to short mid-wicket 11.3 Aziz to S Raza , 3 runs , good sensible batting by Raza , uses the pace of the bowler and late cuts it past short third man , the fielder gives chase and hauls it in just before the rope 11.2 Aziz to S Raza , 2 runs , flighted just outside off , Raza kneels down and scoops it to long leg for a brace. A safe shot as there was no one at short fine 11.1 Aziz to S Raza , no run , tossed up on off , Raza drives it straight back to the bowler 10.6 Naveed to Chakabva , no run , a maiden for Naveed , pitches it up on off , Chakabva presses forward and blocks it to mid-on 10.5 Naveed to Chakabva , no run , that is five dots in a row , Chakabva punches this back of a length delivery straight to point 10.4 Naveed to Chakabva , no run , again , the length is a bit short , Chakabva hangs back and taps it to backward point 10.3 Naveed to Chakabva , no run , back of a length on off , Chakabva dabs it to the off-side , looks for the single but Raza sends him back 10.2 Naveed to Chakabva , no run , loose from Chakabva , shortish and on off , Chakabva arches back and looks to ramp it over the slip fielder. A dangerous shot to play considering there was a fielder 10.1 Naveed to Chakabva , no run , angling in on off , Chakabva defends with the bat and pad close together 9.6 Aziz to S Raza , no run , fires it in full and on off , Raza squeezes it towards short mid-wicket 9.5 Aziz to S Raza , no run , tossed up on off , Raza presses forward and defends it back down the wicket 9.4 Aziz to S Raza , FOUR , Raza is playing to the field , he sees that there is no one at deep backward square , shuffles across , goes down on one knee and sweeps it in the air over backward square for another four 9.3 Aziz to S Raza , FOUR , drops it short and pays the price for it , Raza uses the depth of the crease and cuts it in front of square. It is the powerplay and there was no one at sweeper cover to stop the ball 9.2 Aziz to S Raza , no run , slower and on off , Raza wrists it towards mid-wicket , Amjad Ali does well to dive and stop the single A slip and deepish leg slip in place.. . 9.1 Aziz to Chakabva , 1 run , quicker delivery on off , Chakabva punches it to deep mid-wicket Nasir Aziz , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 8.6 Naveed to S Raza , no run , short of length on off , Raza pushes it off the back foot to mid-on 8.5 Naveed to S Raza , SIX , he might not have played the pull well today , but he has nailed this. Dug in mid-way down the wicket , Raza was expecting this , goes deep in the crease and pulls it over backward square for a maximum 8.4 Naveed to S Raza , no run , back of a length on off , Raza stays in the crease and bunts it to mid-on 8.3 Naveed to Chakabva , 1 run , fuller and a bit of swing away from the batsman , Chakabva goes for the drive away from the body , the outside edge runs down to third man 8.2 Naveed to Chakabva , no run , bumper close to off , Chakabva gets away from the line of the delivery and lets it go 8.1 Naveed to Chakabva , no run , short of length on off , Chakabva punches it with an open face to backward point 7.6 Amjad Javed to S Raza , no run , 15 runs off the over , a very good one for Zimbabwe. Keeps it back of a length just outside off , Raza pats it to backward point 7.5 Amjad Javed to S Raza , no run , back of a length around off , Raza punches it straight to short cover 7.4 Amjad Javed to S Raza , FOUR , Javed under the pump , Raza has taken a liking towards him. Half tracker outside off , Raza cuts it in front of square , the power behind that takes it to the fence 7.4 Amjad Javed to S Raza , wide , wrong line from Javed once again , short and too far outside off , Raza throws his bat at it , but fails to make contact 7.3 Amjad Javed to S Raza , FOUR , superb shot ! A much more convincing shot from Raza. Shimmies down the wicket , gives himself a bit of room which allows him to go inside out , hits it in the air over extra cover for a boundary 7.3 Amjad Javed to S Raza , wide , Javed has lost it a bit , slips another one down leg , Raza ca n't reach it and wide given 7.3 Amjad Javed to S Raza , wide , splays it down leg , Raza lets it pass , wided by the umpire 7.2 Amjad Javed to S Raza , FOUR , Javed is not too happy with the effort and the fielder 's positioning. He thought it was a catch , short on middle and leg , Raza swivels and top-edges the pull towards deep backward square , the fielder runs to his right , dives in vain 7.1 Amjad Javed to S Raza , no run , shortens the length , Raza plays it late and guides it towards point , Chakabva was backing up too much and the throw comes in at his end , but fails to hit the target 6.6 Naveed to Chakabva , no run , back of a length on off , Chakabva camps on the back foot and dabs it to point 6.5 Naveed to S Raza , 1 run , Naveed once again hurries onto Raza , who shuffled across and was up in the air as he tucked it behind square leg for a single. He played it very awkwardly 6.4 Naveed to Chakabva , 1 run , well judged single , taps it in front of mid-on and calls early for the run , makes it easily 6.3 Naveed to Chakabva , no run , back of a length on off , Chakabva gets behind the line and bunts it to the on-side 6.2 Naveed to Chakabva , FOUR , lovely shot ! Chakabva needed that , he was feeling the pressure. Shortish and just outside off , Chakabva arches back and plays it late , third man was very square and had no chance of stopping that 6.1 Naveed to Chakabva , no run , shortens the length close to off , Chakabva hangs back and punches it to cover 5.6 Amjad Javed to S Raza , no run , does not provide room for Raza to free his arms , knocked back down the wicket 5.5 Amjad Javed to Chakabva , 1 run , a direct hit and Raza would have been a goner , he stares at his partner after completing the single. Short of a length around off , Chakabva mistimes the punch towards cover and sets off for a risky single , Amjad Ali runs in , picks up the ball and has a shy at the striker 's end , he misses and Raza makes his way in 5.4 Amjad Javed to Chakabva , no run , good call by the batsman , dabs the length delivery towards backward point , Raza wanted the single but Chakabva sends him back 5.3 Amjad Javed to Chakabva , no run , back of a length on middle and leg , Chakabva fails to lay bat on the clip shot , the ball thuds into the pad and pops to the on-side. The line was taking it down leg 5.2 Amjad Javed to S Raza , 1 run , not short enough to play the pull , he was also cramped for room , he somehow manages to pull it to backward square leg 5.1 Amjad Javed to S Raza , 2 runs , Raza is living dangerously , another shout for " catch it " and the ball eludes the fielder. Advances down the wicket and looks to go over the bowler , gets it high on the bat and the ball goes wide of the mid-off fielder 4.6 Naveed to Chakabva , no run , excellent delivery to end the over , Naveed goes wide of the crease and angles it in before getting it to straighten , Chakabva played for the angle and is beaten comprehensively 4.5 Naveed to S Raza , 1 run , Raza might feel missed out there , shortish and outside off , Raza slashes and picks out third man 4.4 Naveed to Chakabva , 1 run , the length is short , Chakabva jumps up , opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man 4.3 Naveed to S Raza , 3 runs , " catch it " was the call from Naveed , but there is no one in the deep. Banged in halfway down the wicket , it hurried onto Raza , who went for the pull and top-edged it over square leg , the fielder runs back and stops it before the rope 4.2 Naveed to S Raza , no run , back of a length close to off , Raza punches it with an open bat face and finds backward point , either side of the fielder and he would have picked up four 4.1 Naveed to S Raza , no run , short of length on off , Raza hops up and knocks it to cover , calls " no " for the single 3.6 Amjad Javed to Chakabva , no run , solid from Chakabva , good length ball on off , Chakabva gets a good stride forward and defends to mid-on 3.5 Amjad Javed to S Raza , 1 run , sensible batting , Raza tucks the short of length delivery in front of mid-on and calls for a quick single 3.4 Amjad Javed to S Raza , FOUR , width and Raza throws his bat at it , full delivery wide of off , Raza laces it over backward point , the ball bounces a couple of times before reaching the fence. That knock on the helmet has certainly woken up Raza 3.3 Amjad Javed to S Raza , no run , slightly fuller than the previous deliveries , Raza is half-forward and knocks it to cover 3.2 Amjad Javed to S Raza , no run , back of a length around off , Raza goes back and blocks it to the off-side 3.1 Amjad Javed to S Raza , no run , loud shout for caught and bowled , but the umpire shakes his head. Raza walks down the wicket , Javed sees that and slips in a short delivery , Raza decides to take it on , is hurried onto the pull , the ball hits the helmet and lobs back to the bowler. Good call for the umpire. A few of the UAE players go up to Raza and check if he is alright. Seems to be fine , checks his helmet and gets on with things 2.6 Naveed to Chakabva , no run , another tight over from Naveed , just the single off it. Back of a length and on off , Chakabva gets behind the line and knocks it to the on-side 2.5 Naveed to Chakabva , no run , short of length outside off , Chakabva lifts his bat and lets it go. Nice carry through to Patil 2.4 Naveed to Chakabva , no run , fullish and around off , Chakabva drives it to mid-off 2.3 Naveed to Chakabva , no run , good length ball on off , Chakabva turns it towards square leg 2.2 Naveed to S Raza , 1 run , back of a length and holds its line , Raza is late in bringing his bat down , the ball squirts off the inside edge to fine leg 2.1 Naveed to S Raza , no run , nice sound of the bat , pitched up just outside off , Raza drives it crisply onto the ground , the ball bounces towards cover , where the fielder leaps and makes a one-handed save 1.6 Amjad Javed to Chakabva , no run , fuller and on off , Chakabva leans forward and flicks , picks out the fielder at square leg 1.5 Amjad Javed to Chakabva , no run , short of length close to off , Chakabva shuffles across and drops it to the off-side 1.4 Amjad Javed to S Raza , leg byes , 1 run , drifts onto Raza 's pads , he fails to connect with the flick , the ball rolls off the pad to the left of the keeper , Chakabva calls for a quick single 1.3 Amjad Javed to S Raza , no run , pitched up just outside off , Raza comes forward and lets it go through to the keeper 1.2 Amjad Javed to Chakabva , 1 run , bit too straight , on off and middle , Chakabva gets inside the line and tucks it to fine leg for the first runs off the bat 1.1 Amjad Javed to Chakabva , no run , back of a length around off , Chakabva goes back and across , defends it to the off-side Amjad Javed , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Naveed to S Raza , no run , nice shape on that , it was touch fuller as well , Raza presses forward and lets it pass. Good start by Naveed after conceding a wide off the first ball 0.5 Naveed to S Raza , no run , closer to the off-stump line , but not close enough to make Raza play , shoulders arms to that 0.4 Naveed to S Raza , no run , short of length and just too wide for Raza to play at it , left alone with ease 0.3 Naveed to S Raza , no run , drags the length and gets it to tail away outside off , Raza shuffles across , covers his stumps , lifts his bat and lets it go 0.2 Naveed to S Raza , no run , on a length just outside off , Raza ignores it 0.1 Naveed to S Raza , no run , good length ball on off , Raza is half-forward and defending down the wicket 0.1 Naveed to S Raza , wide , swing straightaway for Naveed , but the line is too far outside off and shapes away further , easy call for the umpire S Raza and Chakabva are at the crease. S Raza is on strike. Naveed will open the attack Welcome back.. UAE batsmen have done their job. Now upto their bowlers. If they can keep it tight and field well , then they can cause an upset. Can Zimbabwe chase this down ? Or will they succumb to the pressure of chasing ? We 'll find out soon. The players make their way out to the middle. Raza will take strike first up. Naveed to start off proceedings. He has two slips in place.. . This is a good score for UAE. In fact , 285 is their highest ODI score as well. Their captain said at the toss that he would be happy with anything between 280-300 and his batsmen have n't let him down. Can UAE 's bowlers defend the total and give them a winning start to their campaign ? We 'll find out after the break . For Zimbabwe , Chatara bowled a fine spell upfront. Solomon Mire , with a whippy action , hit the bat hard and troubled the batsmen. But their fielding was n't up to the mark. It is an easy-paced track , but Zimbabwe need to bat well to overhaul the target set by a spirited UAE team . Khurram then , picked the length quickly and essayed fluent shots on both sides of the wicket to give UAE 's innings the much-needed impetus. It took a smart catch by Sean Williams at backward point to send the dangerous Khurram back to the pavilion. Once Khurram was dismissed , the 35-year-old Anwar , known for his ability to play powerful shots in UAE 's cricketing circles , gave a good account of himself with a crunching knock of 67. In particular , he took a heavy toll on Panyangara 's bowling by clobbering him for a four and a six in the 40th over of the innings. Anwar was well-supported by Swapnil Patel. Krishnachandran Karate , Amjad Javed and Mohammad Naveed too played key knocks for UAE . On the back of Shaiman Anwar 's pyrotechnics and Khurram Khan 's superlative innings , UAE notched up a sizeable score on the board. Zimbabwe 's bowlers , Tendai Chatara and Tinashe Panyangara started on a good note by bowling with good disciplines. However , Brendan Taylor , the wicket-keeper , dropped an easy chance to give Andri Berenger a reprieve off Chatara 's bowling. Chatara again produced the edge off Berenger 's bat , and Taylor completed the catch. Unfortunately , it turned out to be a no-ball. He was eventually rewarded for his perseverance with the wicket of Amjad Ali . 49.6 Chatara to Naveed , 2 runs , yorker from Chatara , Naveed flicks it wide of long-on and they get back for the second 49.5 Chatara to Amjad Javed , 1 run , low full toss from Chatara , Javed swings it away through square leg 49.4 Chatara to Amjad Javed , no run , yorker following the batsman as he backs away , Javed swings hard but the ball only brushes the pad en route to the keeper 49.3 Chatara to Amjad Javed , FOUR , top edge and it clears the man at short fine leg. Slower ball from Chatara , Javed pulls and gets lucky with the edge. The fielder gives chase but the ball wins the race 49.2 Chatara to Amjad Javed , no run , full and outside off stump , driven to extra-cover 49.1 Chatara to Amjad Javed , byes , FOUR , poor work from keeper Taylor ! Slower delivery outside off stump , Javed swings and misses. It should have been a dot ball , but he 's conceded four runs 48.6 Panyangara to Naveed , FOUR , what a strike and UAE have got 20 runs in the over ! Panyangara bowls a juicy full ball , as always , Naveed stays leg-side and loft-drives it over the infield. The ball runs away to the deep extra-cover fence 48.6 Panyangara to Naveed , wide , gives the charge to the bowler and tries to pull but misses. Surprisingly , the umpire calls it a wide for height. The batsman was a long way down the pitch 48.5 Panyangara to Amjad Javed , 1 run , in the air , but it lands safely. Slower ball on the stumps , Javed top-edges the slog , deep square leg rushes in but it just manages to evade him. Sean Williams puts in the dive but just could n't get there 48.4 Panyangara to Amjad Javed , SIX , this is even better ! He 's striking them alright. Full and in the slot , Javed stays leg-side and smashes it over extra-cover and this time it goes all the way. Already 14 runs in the over 48.3 Panyangara to Amjad Javed , no run , gets the yorker right this time , Javed digs it out to cover 48.2 Panyangara to Amjad Javed , FOUR , oh that is hit very hard. Panyangara misses the yorker again , Javed muscles the drive in the air , it goes flat and to the right of extra-cover , long-off runs to his left , but the ball wins the race 48.1 Panyangara to Amjad Javed , FOUR , no one at sweeper cover and it 's a safe shot ! Panyangara missed the yorker by an inch and Javed got under it. He timed it sweetly and hit it easily over extra-cover Tinashe Panyangara [ 8.0-0-46-0 ] is back into the attack 47.6 Chatara to Amjad Javed , 1 run , swings hard at this low full toss and gets it on the inside half of the bat , the ball rolls through backward square leg. Excellent over from Chatara , just 4 singles in it 47.5 Chatara to Naveed , 1 run , follows Naveed as he backs away , the drives the full ball to long-off 47.4 Chatara to Naveed , no run , a fine yorker on the leg stump , Naveed manages to dig it out 47.3 Chatara to Amjad Javed , 1 run , change of pace again from Chatara , Javed heaves it away to deep backward square leg 47.2 Chatara to Amjad Javed , no run , slower ball from Chatara , Javed swings early and misses 47.1 Chatara to Naveed , 1 run , tries a yorker , but it goes as a low full toss , driven down to long-off 46.6 Sean Williams to Naveed , 1 run , plays it with soft hands and calls for two , but the man from deep mid-wicket runs in quickly and keeps them down to one 46.5 Sean Williams to Amjad Javed , 1 run , slower and on the stumps , Javed nudges it to square leg 46.4 Sean Williams to Amjad Javed , no run , fired in around off , Javed moves away and ca n't connect with the cut , he backed away too far 46.3 Sean Williams to Naveed , 1 run , quicker and just outside off , Naveed makes room and hammers it hard and towards deep extra 46.2 Sean Williams to Amjad Javed , 1 run , tosses it up outside off , Javed throws his bat at it , ends up slicing it over extra cover for a single 46.1 Sean Williams to Amjad Javed , no run , flighted on off , Javed defends it to cover 45.6 Chatara to Naveed , no run , off-cutter around off , Naveed ca n't connect with the cut shot as he plays it a tad early 45.5 Chatara to Naveed , SIX , second six of the over and Naveed means business. The slower short ball , Naveed spotted it early , backed away to the leg-side and swung hard , the ball goes high and over deep mid-wicket 45.4 Chatara to Naveed , no run , another off-speed delivery , Naveed hangs back and bunts it in front of cover 45.3 Chatara to Naveed , no run , slower ball , Naveed looks to slog it towards cow corner , is deceived by the lack pace. The ball almost shaved the leg-stump 45.3 Chatara to Naveed , wide , dug in mid-way down the wicket , Naveed looks to ramp it over the keeper , it is too high and rightly called a wide 45.2 Chatara to Naveed , no run , short and on the stumps , Naveed pulls and misses 45.1 Chatara to Naveed , SIX , that 's a handsome hit. It was full and in the slot , Naveed cleared his left leg and swung it away over long-off for a maximum. Good start to the over for UAE 44.6 Sean Williams to Amjad Javed , no run , flatter from Williams , Javed defends 44.5 Sean Williams to Naveed , 1 run , shortish outside off stump , Naveed guides it short third man , he did n't want the run but Amjad Javed raced to the striker 's end. Luckily for Naveed , the throw went wide of the keeper and he had the time to recover and reach the bowler 's end 44.4 Sean Williams to Naveed , no run , on the stumps , defended straight back to the bowler 44.3 Sean Williams to Naveed , no run , defends with an angled bat this time 44.2 Sean Williams to Naveed , no run , flighted delivery from Williams , Naveed defends and gets a thickish edge that rolls to point Mohammad Naveed , right handed bat , comes to the crease 44.1 Sean Williams to Shaiman Anwar , out Caught by C Ervine ! ! Flighted delivery on the leg stump , Anwar takes his front leg out of the way and tries to hit it over the infield , but hits it straight to the man at mid-on. An excellent innings comes to an end. Shaiman Anwar c C Ervine b Sean Williams 67 ( 50 ) [ 4s-9 6s-1 ] Sean Williams to Shaiman Anwar , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Sean Williams [ 6.0-0-38-1 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Chatara to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , full and just outside off stump , Anwar flick-drives this uppishly to long-on 43.5 Chatara to Amjad Javed , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Javed guides it to third man Amjad Javed , right handed bat , comes to the crease 43.4 Chatara to Rohan Mustafa , out Caught by Brendan Taylor ! ! Third wicket for Chatara. Short of a length angling away from the left-hander , Mustafa tries to guide it down to third man , but edges it to the keeper. He played away from the body and paid the penalty. Rohan Mustafa c Brendan Taylor b Chatara 4 ( 6 ) Chatara to Rohan Mustafa , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 43.3 Chatara to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , steers the slower ball to third man 43.2 Chatara to Rohan Mustafa , 1 run , slower delivery on the leg stump , Mustafa softly turns it to short mid-wicket and takes off for a sharp run 43.2 Chatara to Rohan Mustafa , wide , this time too short from Chatara and Mustafa sits under it comfortably 43.1 Chatara to Rohan Mustafa , no run , Mustafa gives the charge to the bowler , but he gets a bouncer , tries to pull and he misses Tendai Chatara [ 6.0-1-13-2 ] is back into the attack 42.6 H Masakadza to Rohan Mustafa , 1 run , opens the face of the bat and gently guides the good length delivery ball to third man 42.5 H Masakadza to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , clears the front leg and tries to go big with a drive but gets it on the outside half of the bat and it rolls to sweeper cover 42.4 H Masakadza to Shaiman Anwar , no run , fullish delivery outside off stump , Anwar drives it to cover 42.3 H Masakadza to Shaiman Anwar , FOUR , in the air and it 's safe ! Anwar walks right across the stumps and tries to scoop it away over short fine leg , but the ball takes a top edge and flies over short third man. That 's unlucky for the bowler 42.2 H Masakadza to Shaiman Anwar , 2 runs , short and wide outside off stump , Anwar cuts it to the right of backward point for a couple 42.1 H Masakadza to Rohan Mustafa , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Mustafa guides it down to third man Hamilton Masakadza , right-arm medium , comes into the attack This is the highest team score for UAE against a full member nation in ODIs . 41.6 Sean Williams to Rohan Mustafa , 1 run , flighted delivery on the off stump , Mustafa flicks it to mid-wicket 41.5 Sean Williams to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , on the leg stump , Anwar flicks it to backward square leg Rohan Mustafa , left handed bat , comes to the crease 41.4 Sean Williams to Swapnil Patil , out Caught by Chakabva ! ! In the air and it 's an easy catch for the man at extra-cover. Patil steps out and tries to go inside-out , does n't get the timing right , Chakabva runs back a few steps and swallows the ball. End of a fine 82-run stand. Swapnil Patil c Chakabva b Sean Williams 32 ( 38 ) [ 4s-4 ] Sean Williams to Swapnil Patil , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 41.3 Sean Williams to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , backs away and flicks it to backward square leg 41.2 Sean Williams to Shaiman Anwar , no run , flatter delivery on the stumps , Anwar defends off the back foot 41.1 Sean Williams to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , flighted delivery on the leg stump , Patil drives it to long-on Sean Williams [ 5.0-0-34-0 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Kamungozi to Shaiman Anwar , FOUR , this is poor fielding from Zimbabwe. Short and outside off stump , Anwar cuts it through point , Mire runs to his left from sweeper cover , gets to the ball , he tries to pick up the ball with his left hand but he kicks it away for four 40.5 Kamungozi to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , drives this to the right of extra-cover and sets off , the throw comes in at the keeper 's end , but Anwar was home 40.4 Kamungozi to Swapnil Patil , no run , tossed up outside off stump , driven back to the bowler 40.3 Kamungozi to Swapnil Patil , no run , driven to cover 40.2 Kamungozi to Swapnil Patil , FOUR , this is brilliant batting from Patil. He allows the flighted delivery to spin away and just opens the face of the bat at the last moment to guide it very past the keeper. Short third man had no chance 40.1 Kamungozi to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , under-edges the sweep to short fine leg UAE have scored 49/0 in the 5-over batting powerplay . 39.6 Panyangara to Swapnil Patil , no run , fullish and outside off stump , Patil defends it to cover 39.5 Panyangara to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , flicked away to backward square leg 39.4 Panyangara to Shaiman Anwar , SIX , what a way to get to fifty number two in ODIs. It 's come off just 37 balls. One slower ball too many from Panyangara , Anwar picked it early , came down the track and muscled it straight past the bowler 's head. The 200 comes up for UAE 39.3 Panyangara to Shaiman Anwar , FOUR , short and down the leg-side , a really bad ball , Anwar rocks back and pulls it along the ground to the fine leg boundary 39.2 Panyangara to Shaiman Anwar , no run , in the air but just short of the man at mid-off. Slower ball outside off stump , Anwar looks to go big , but mistimes the loft and luckily for him , it does n't carry to the fielder 39.1 Panyangara to Shaiman Anwar , no run , Anwar gently turns this to mid-wicket 38.6 Kamungozi to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , on the leg stump , worked away to backward square leg 38.5 Kamungozi to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Patil drives it to long-off 38.4 Kamungozi to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , flatter delivery outside off stump , Anwar guides it to short third man for a sharp run 38.3 Kamungozi to Shaiman Anwar , FOUR , this time darts this full at 99kph , it 's outside off stump and Anwar lifts it over extra-cover for four more 38.2 Kamungozi to Shaiman Anwar , no run , flighted delivery , swept to backward square leg 38.1 Kamungozi to Shaiman Anwar , FOUR , top shot from Anwar. He goes inside-out and lofts it very well over extra-cover. The ball almost clears the boundary. Long-off tries to run to his left and stop the ball , but loses the race. Another poor ball from Kamungozi , it was short and Anwar had enough time on the back foot. The fifty partnership comes up as well The batting powerplay has been good so far for UAE. 27 runs have come off three overs . 37.6 Panyangara to Swapnil Patil , no run , length ball on the off stump , flicked to mid-wicket 37.6 Panyangara to Swapnil Patil , wide , sprays it down the leg-side 37.6 Panyangara to Swapnil Patil , wide, 37.5 Panyangara to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , on the pads , flicked away to deep square leg 37.4 Panyangara to Shaiman Anwar , 2 runs , shortish slower ball on the off stump , Anwar flicks it through square leg for a couple 37.3 Panyangara to Shaiman Anwar , FOUR , clever batting from Anwar. He waits for the short of length delivery to come and guides it in the gap between short third man and backward point 37.2 Panyangara to Shaiman Anwar , no run , full outside off stump , Anwar taps it to point 37.1 Panyangara to Shaiman Anwar , no run , slower ball outside off stump , Anwar defends it to cover Tinashe Panyangara [ 6.0-0-27-0 ] is back into the attack 36.6 Kamungozi to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , driven away to long-off 36.5 Kamungozi to Shaiman Anwar , FOUR , tries the yorker , but bowls a full toss at 90.9kph , Anwar gets down on one knee and sweeps with one hand , the ball rockets to the boundary through backward square leg 36.4 Kamungozi to Shaiman Anwar , no run , no flight whatsoever , Anwar defends it to cover 36.3 Kamungozi to Shaiman Anwar , no run , short enough to hang back and punch it into the on-side 36.2 Kamungozi to Shaiman Anwar , no run , short again , this time cut to cover-point , the fielder fumbles but they do n't take the run 36.1 Kamungozi to Shaiman Anwar , FOUR , a short by at 95kph , that was asking for trouble , Anwar had all the time to rock back and loft it hard over extra-cover Tafadzwa Kamungozi [ 7.0-0-23-0 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Solomon Mire to Swapnil Patil , no run , ugly dab attempted away from the body , Patil tries to run it down to third man but misses 35.5 Solomon Mire to Swapnil Patil , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Patil defends it to cover 35.4 Solomon Mire to Swapnil Patil , FOUR , outside edge and there is no one at slip. Third man is very square as well. Slower delivery outside off stump , Patil looks to cut , gets a thick outside edge and it runs away to the boundary 35.3 Solomon Mire to Swapnil Patil , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Patil defends it to backward point , Anwar takes off for a run but Patil says no 35.2 Solomon Mire to Swapnil Patil , FOUR , poor ball ! Short and down the leg-side , Patil just gets across the stumps and helps it on its way to the fine leg boundary 35.1 Solomon Mire to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , Mire starts off with a bumper , Anwar rolls his wrists and keeps the pull along the ground to deep backward square leg Solomon Mire [ 7.0-0-30-2 ] is back into the attack Batting powerplay has been enforced Drinks are on the field now 34.6 S Raza to Swapnil Patil , no run , steps out and drives it to cover 34.5 S Raza to Swapnil Patil , no run , full again from Raza , pushed to the right of the bowler 34.4 S Raza to Swapnil Patil , no run , full and outside off stump , Patil drives it the left of the bowler 34.3 S Raza to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , driven away to long-on 34.2 S Raza to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , lovely drive along the ground , good use of the feet , he got to the pitch of the ball and drove it wide of long-off 34.1 S Raza to Swapnil Patil , no run , flatter delivery on the off stump , defended back to the bowler Sikandar Raza [ 2.0-0-9-0 ] is back into the attack Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the last 17 overs : Khurram Khan continued to play eye-catching shots to keep the scorecard ticking. Khurram is a free-flowing stroke-maker , who picks the length quickly. Krishnachandran Karate too looked in fine touch before he was dismissed by the impressive Solomon Mire. Khurram , after composing a fluent innings of 45 , then lost his wicket on the back of a smart catch taken by Sean Williams at backward point . For Zimbabwe , Mire , with a whippy action , hit the bat hard and troubled the batsmen. On an easy-paced wicket , where the batsmen can play on the up and through the line , UAE need a sizeable total on the board to give Zimbabwe a run for their money . 33.6 Sean Williams to Shaiman Anwar , no run , quicker ball outside off stump , punched to cover 33.5 Sean Williams to Shaiman Anwar , 2 runs , reaches out for the short ball and cuts it to deep backward point 33.4 Sean Williams to Shaiman Anwar , FOUR , too short , Anwar rocks back and cuts well , puts it in the gap between cover and point and it races away 33.3 Sean Williams to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , advances and drives the flighted delivery along the ground to long-off 33.2 Sean Williams to Swapnil Patil , 2 runs , down the leg-side , Patil helps it down to fine leg 33.1 Sean Williams to Shaiman Anwar , leg byes , 1 run , down the leg-side , Anwar misses the flick and it rolls to backward square leg off the pad 33.1 Sean Williams to Shaiman Anwar , wide , sprays this down the leg-side from round the wicket 32.6 Chatara to Swapnil Patil , no run , length outside off stump , blocked to cover The fielder at short leg has been moved to mid-wicket . 32.5 Chatara to Swapnil Patil , no run , full and outside off stump , Patil leans forward and defends it towards point 32.4 Chatara to Swapnil Patil , no run , this time Patil sits under this bumper 32.3 Chatara to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , short again , pulled along the ground through mid-wicket 32.2 Chatara to Shaiman Anwar , no run , short delivery just outside off stump , Anwar hops and defends Now there is a man at short leg . 32.1 Chatara to Shaiman Anwar , no run , full and outside off stump , Anwar looks to drive but gets a thickish inside edge that rolls into the on-side 31.6 Sean Williams to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , again on the pads , worked away to backward square leg 31.5 Sean Williams to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , on the leg stump , flicked to square leg 31.4 Sean Williams to Shaiman Anwar , 3 runs , short and wide outside off stump , Anwar punches it to sweeper cover a slight fumble and they return for the third 31.3 Sean Williams to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , too straight and easily tucked to square leg 31.2 Sean Williams to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , waits for the ball and tucks it to square leg 31.1 Sean Williams to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , driven away to long-on Sean Williams [ 3.0-0-16-0 ] is back into the attack 30.6 Chatara to Shaiman Anwar , no run , and again. Chatara bowls a bumper , Anwar goes for the pull again but misses 30.5 Chatara to Shaiman Anwar , no run , short delivery , Anwar pulls and misses 30.4 Chatara to Shaiman Anwar , no run , leans forward and defends well 30.3 Chatara to Shaiman Anwar , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , defended 30.2 Chatara to Shaiman Anwar , no run , fullish and angling into the right-hander , Anwar misses the flick and is hit on the pad. The ball was going down the leg side though Shaiman Anwar , right handed bat , comes to the crease 30.1 Chatara to K Khan , out Caught by Sean Williams ! ! What a catch by Sean Williams at backward point. It was travelling but he did very well to dive and get his hands to his right. Mind you , it was not his natural side but he did well to grab the ball. Certainly not a wicket taking ball. Short and way outside off stump , Khan cuts well but does n't control it and in the end a good bit of fielding ends his stay. This is a big blow for UAE. Both Karate and Khan have been dismissed in quick succession. K Khan c Sean Williams b Chatara 45 ( 55 ) [ 4s-6 ] Chatara to K Khan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Tendai Chatara [ 4.0-0-12-1 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Solomon Mire to Swapnil Patil , no run , full and on the off stump , Patil punch-drives it to mid-on 29.5 Solomon Mire to K Khan , 1 run , keeps his bat close to the front pad , waits for the length ball to come and dabs it late to the right of backward point 29.4 Solomon Mire to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , slightly gets across the line and tucks the short of length delivery along the ground to long leg 29.3 Solomon Mire to Swapnil Patil , no run , short and outside off stump , left alone 29.2 Solomon Mire to Swapnil Patil , 2 runs , short and wide outside off stump , Patil guides it square of the wicket on the off-side for a couple 29.1 Solomon Mire to Swapnil Patil , no run , steeply rising bumper on the off stump , Patil adjusts well and defends with soft hands. In fact , the ball hit the handle as he drops his bottom hand 28.6 S Raza to K Khan , no run , short and wide outside off stump , should have been put away , but mistimes the cut to backward point 28.5 S Raza to K Khan , no run , no spin on this flatter ball , driven to the left of the man at cover 28.4 S Raza to K Khan , no run , full and on the stumps , worked away to mid-wicket 28.3 S Raza to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , floated up from Raza , driven to long-on 28.2 S Raza to K Khan , 1 run , steps out and drives the flighted delivery along the ground to long-off 28.1 S Raza to K Khan , no run , the slider coming in with the angle , Khan just manages to defend in time 27.6 Solomon Mire to Swapnil Patil , 2 runs , a punchy-drive to the right of the bowler , mid-on is very square , he gives chase and keeps it down to two 27.5 Solomon Mire to Swapnil Patil , no run , well outside off stump , left alone 27.4 Solomon Mire to Swapnil Patil , FOUR , that 's a top cover drive from Patil. That will settle the nerves. Full and in the slot , Patil leans forward and creams the drive through cover and that 's a great way to get off the mark 27.3 Solomon Mire to Swapnil Patil , no run , short and outside off stump , Patil was just ball-watching on that occasion 27.2 Solomon Mire to Swapnil Patil , no run , yes-no and Khurram Khan was almost run-out at the bowler 's end. Patil tapped this short ball to the right of the point , Khan wanted the run but Patil said no , luckily for Khan , the fielder had to cover a bit of ground and that gave him the time to go back Swapnil Patil , right handed bat , comes to the crease 27.1 Solomon Mire to Karate , out Caught by Chigumbura ! ! Oh he 's thrown it away and that ends a fine 82-run stand. A nothing ball from Mire. It was short and outside off stump , Karate gave the charge to the bowler and tried to slog , the ball hit the toe-end of the bat and went to mid-off , who took a few steps back to complete an easy catch. Karate c Chigumbura b Solomon Mire 34 ( 63 ) [ 4s-3 ] Solomon Mire to Karate , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Solomon Mire [ 5.0-0-20-1 ] is back into the attack 26.6 S Raza to K Khan , FOUR , a slog across the line and he 's got it in the gap. Khan waits for the flighted delivery to come , it was very full and he sent it to the left of the man at mid-wicket , Panyangara runs to his right in the deep but the ball wins the race 26.5 S Raza to Karate , 1 run , steps out and drives the flighted delivery to long-off 26.4 S Raza to Karate , no run , punched off the front foot , the bowler dives to his left and stops the ball 26.3 S Raza to K Khan , 1 run , tossed up well outside off stump , Khan drives along the ground and sends it wide of long-off Round the wicket to the left-hander 26.2 S Raza to Karate , 1 run , stays back in the crease and tucks this flatter ball to mid-wicket 26.1 S Raza to Karate , no run , a very optimistic shout for LBW , Karate misses the flick and is hit on the front pad , but the ball was easily sliding past the leg stump Sikandar Raza , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 25.6 Panyangara to Karate , 1 run , leans forward and punches it along the ground to long-on , Mire quickly tidies up in the deep 25.5 Panyangara to Karate , no run , slower ball outside off stump , Karate checks his drive and sends it to mid-off 25.4 Panyangara to K Khan , 1 run , width on offer outside off stump , Khan dabs this down to third man , thinks about the second run but the fielder got to the ball very quickly 25.3 Panyangara to Karate , 1 run , inswinging low full toss , Karate only manages to flick it along the ground to long leg 25.3 Panyangara to Karate , wide , attempts a bouncer , but it was way too short 25.2 Panyangara to Karate , no run , fullish and just outside off stump , worked away towards mid-wicket 25.2 Panyangara to Karate , wide , full and down the leg-side , easy call for the umpire 25.1 Panyangara to K Khan , 1 run , back of a length on middle , tucked away behind square leg for a single 24.6 Kamungozi to K Khan , 1 run , turning into the pads , Khan nurdles it with the spin to short fine leg 24.5 Kamungozi to K Khan , no run , tucks the batsman for room , Khan backs away and punches it down the wicket 24.4 Kamungozi to K Khan , no run , flighted on off , Khan jams the drive onto the pads , the ball rolls down the wicket 24.3 Kamungozi to K Khan , 2 runs , flighted on off , Khan kneels down and top-edges the sweep over the keeper 's head , Williams gives chase and keeps it down to a couple. He was outdone by the extra bounce there 24.2 Kamungozi to K Khan , no run , quicker and around off , Khan bunts it to cover 24.1 Kamungozi to K Khan , no run , slider just outside off , Khan guides it to short third with an open bat face 23.6 Panyangara to Karate , no run , back of a length just outside off , Karate punches it to mid-off , finds the fielder there 23.5 Panyangara to Karate , FOUR , Karate gives the charge and collects four. He converts it into a length delivery and swings it acrosss the line towards cow corner , the fielder at deep square ca n't get there in time to prevent the boundary 23.4 Panyangara to Karate , no run , banged in halfway down the wicket , Karate toe-ends the pull to mid-on 23.3 Panyangara to K Khan , 1 run , on a length close to off , Khan drops it wide of point and scampers across for the single. This time the call was early 23.2 Panyangara to Karate , 1 run , slight miscommunication , but no harm done. Fuller and on the stumps , Karate punches it to mid-on and takes a couple of steps out of the crease , Khan was late to respond , a direct hit from Mire would have meant curtains for Karate 23.1 Panyangara to Karate , no run , good length ball targeting the stumps , Karate turns it with soft hands towards short mid-wicket Tinashe Panyangara [ 4.0-0-15-0 ] is back into the attack 22.6 Kamungozi to K Khan , 2 runs , Kamungozi is not happy with that , touch short and just outside off , Khan cuts it towards backward point , the two fielders behind point converge on the ball and allow it to go past them 22.5 Kamungozi to K Khan , no run , flat and on off , punched off the back foot to cover 22.4 Kamungozi to K Khan , no run , straight roller , Khan goes back and turns it to short mid-wicket 22.3 Kamungozi to K Khan , no run , slower on middle and leg , Khan paddles it and almost picks out the fielder at short fine , the ball bounces in front of Williams 22.2 Kamungozi to Karate , 1 run , comes down the track and wrists it towards long-on 22.1 Kamungozi to Karate , no run , quicker and on the stumps , Karate works it to short mid-wicket , straight to the fielder 21.6 Solomon Mire to Karate , 1 run , short delivery that gets big on the batsman , Karate plays it rather awkwardly , takes his eyes off the ball and fends at it , the ball hits the splice and balloons towards backward square leg 21.5 Solomon Mire to K Khan , 1 run , shortens the length just outside off , Khan runs it down to third man with an angled bat 21.4 Solomon Mire to K Khan , no run , the ball bounces over the stumps , Mire has his hand on his head. On a length close to off , Khan looks to defend with soft hands , the ball rolls back and misses the stumps 21.3 Solomon Mire to Karate , 1 run , again , the length is on the shorter side , Karate tucks it to square leg 21.2 Solomon Mire to Karate , no run , beaut ! Back of a length and bit of extra bounce , Karate was hoping in the crease as he tried to work it through the on-side , the ball whizzes past the outside edge 21.1 Solomon Mire to Karate , no run , short of length on off , Karate whips it straight to short mid-wicket 20.6 Kamungozi to K Khan , no run , Khan is not too pleased with himself , he goes for the drive and picks out the point fielder. He wanted to place it better 20.5 Kamungozi to K Khan , no run , hangs back and punches it to the right of the bowler 20.4 Kamungozi to K Khan , no run , once again the stumps at the bowler 's end saves a single. Khan drives it straight down the ground and disturbs the timber 20.3 Kamungozi to K Khan , no run , straight roller , Khan was playing for the turn , the ball goes off a thickish outside edge to backward point 20.2 Kamungozi to Karate , 1 run , floated up around off , driven straight down the ground , the long-off fielder tidies up 20.1 Kamungozi to K Khan , 1 run , flighted on off , Khan drives it to long-off 19.6 Solomon Mire to Karate , no run , fuller and outside off , Karate looks to drive while on the move , the ball fizzes past the outside edge 19.5 Solomon Mire to Karate , no run , bumper just outside off , Karate arches back and lets it pass 19.4 Solomon Mire to K Khan , 1 run , back of a length on the hips , tucked away behind square for a single 19.3 Solomon Mire to Karate , 1 run , needless from Mire , short of length on off , Karate taps it to the on-side and takes a couple of steps , Mire runs to forward and to his right , sends in a throw at the striker 's end and there was no one backing up. The batsman was well in and the throw was not needed 19.2 Solomon Mire to Karate , no run , on a length just outside off , Karate plays it on the up and finds cover to perfection 19.1 Solomon Mire to Karate , no run , fuller and on off , Karate pushes it back to the bowler Solomon Mire [ 3.0-0-15-1 ] is back into the attack 18.6 Kamungozi to Karate , 1 run , shortens the length on off , Karate plays the short-arm pull to long-on 18.5 Kamungozi to K Khan , 1 run , good running , even though there was slight hesitation , they get the single comfortably in the end. Khan drops it in front of cover , looks up at his partner , Karate calls for it and gets it easily 18.4 Kamungozi to Karate , 1 run , slider on middle and leg , Karate shuffles across and nurdles it to backward square leg 18.3 Kamungozi to Karate , no run , driven back to the bowler 18.2 Kamungozi to K Khan , leg byes , 1 run , turning into the pads , Khan fails to work it through the on-side , the ball dribbles off the pads 18.1 Kamungozi to K Khan , no run , tucks the batsman for room , Khan taps it in front of short mid-wicket 17.6 Sean Williams to Karate , no run , straight roller on off , Karate tucks it to backward square , picks out the fielder there 17.5 Sean Williams to K Khan , 1 run , sloppy from Zimbabwe , Khan writs it to mid-on , Chigumbura lets it go past him and the batsmen pinch a single 17.4 Sean Williams to K Khan , FOUR , Williams lets out a grunt as soon as he delivered that , half tracker outside off , Khan had all the time in the world , to go back and cut it to the right of backward point 17.3 Sean Williams to K Khan , no run , stays back in the crease and punches it straight back 17.2 Sean Williams to K Khan , no run , slower and on off , Khan knocks it back to Williams 17.1 Sean Williams to K Khan , no run , flat and close to off , Khan punches it towards the bowler Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the first 17 overs : After Zimbabwe won the toss and elected to bowl , Tendai Chatara bowled with purpose to produce the edge off Andri Berenger 's bat , but Brendan Taylor , the wicket-keeper , grassed a straightforward chance. Chatara again forced Berenger to edge a delivery that shaped away from him and this time around , Taylor completed the catch. Unfortunately , it turned out to be a no ball . Chatara was finally rewarded for his persistence with the wicket of Amjad Ali. Solomon Mire then snaffled the wicket of Berenger. However , Khurram Khan , who averages a shade over 53 in ODIs showed his class by essaying a supreme cover-drive and followed it up with a crunching pull shot off the bowling of Mire . Time for some drinks ! 16.6 Kamungozi to Karate , no run , goes deep in the crease and bunts it to the right of the bowler 16.5 Kamungozi to Karate , no run , nice loopy delivery , Karate push-drives it to the left of the bowler , Kamungozi dives and stops the ball going any further 16.4 Kamungozi to K Khan , 1 run , fraction short , Khan is quick to rock back and pull it to deep backward square leg 16.3 Kamungozi to K Khan , no run , flighted close to off , Khan presses forward and blocks it to the right of Kamungozi 16.2 Kamungozi to K Khan , no run , pushed through on off , Khan goes back and looks to punch , the ball goes off the inside part to short mid-wicket 16.1 Kamungozi to Karate , 1 run , slower and around off , Karate eases the drive to long-off 15.6 Sean Williams to K Khan , FOUR , top shot ! At first everyone thought he did n't middle it , but that came right off the meat. Throws this up just outside off , Khan shimmies down the wicket and plays the lofted drive inside out , mid-off was inside the circle and it would n't have mattered if the fielder was on the fence either as the ball rocketed away to the fence 15.5 Sean Williams to K Khan , no run , tossed up close to off , Khan pushes it to the right of the bowler 15.4 Sean Williams to Karate , 1 run , arm-ball that skids on , Karate hangs back and punches it to long-on 15.3 Sean Williams to K Khan , 1 run , on leg-stump , nurdled away to square leg for a single 15.2 Sean Williams to Karate , 1 run , flighted on off , Karate drives it to long-off 15.1 Sean Williams to K Khan , 1 run , floated up on middle , Khan leans forward and nudges it to the left of mid-wicket 14.6 Kamungozi to Karate , FOUR , lovely shot ! Drops it short and the line was outside off , Karate goes right back and punches it sweetly through cover , there was no one guarding the sweeper fence. He relied on timing there 14.5 Kamungozi to Karate , no run , stays back and punches it to the right of cover , the fielder does well to get across , dive and stop the ball 14.4 Kamungozi to Karate , no run , push-drives it back to the bowler 14.3 Kamungozi to Karate , no run , punches it without much timing to cover 14.2 Kamungozi to Karate , FOUR , short and provides a bit of width , Karate goes for the cut , he gets a thick outside edge past short third man. Not where he intended but Karate will take the end result 14.1 Kamungozi to Karate , no run , the stumps at the non-striker 's end denies Karate a single. He drives it gun-barrel straight and the ball is stopped by the sticks Tafadzwa Kamungozi [ 1.0-0-2-0 ] is back into the attack 13.6 Sean Williams to Karate , 1 run , goes straight from round the wicket , Karate gets to the pitch and wrists it to long-on 13.5 Sean Williams to K Khan , 1 run , slower on middle , Khan eases it down to long-on 13.4 Sean Williams to Karate , 1 run , drags the length back , Karate punches it past the diving Williams to long-off 13.3 Sean Williams to Karate , no run , tossed up around off , Karate pushes it back to the bowler 13.2 Sean Williams to Karate , no run , flat and on off , Karate punches it towards mid-wicket , Raza does well to dive and stop the ball 13.1 Sean Williams to Karate , no run , flighted on off , Karate presses forward and blocks it to the on-side Sean Williams , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 12.6 Solomon Mire to K Khan , no run , fuller on off and middle , Khan comes slightly forward and wrists it to mid-on 12.5 Solomon Mire to K Khan , no run , again , on the pads , Khan fails to connect with the flick , is hit on the pads and the ball dribbles towards mid-wicket 12.4 Solomon Mire to K Khan , FOUR , bad delivery and Khan latches onto it. Mire got this completely wrong , short and on leg-stump , Khan swivels on the back foot and pulls it behind square , split the two fielders in the deep to perfection 12.3 Solomon Mire to K Khan , no run , back of a length just outside off , Khan dabs it to gully , calls " wait on " for the single The slips are taken out , only a gully in place now. . 12.2 Solomon Mire to K Khan , FOUR , fantastic shot ! That came right off the meat of the bat. On a length just outside off , Khan leans forward and drives it on the up through cover , the timing was sublime as the ball raced away to the fence 12.1 Solomon Mire to K Khan , no run , shortens the length around off , Khan hangs back and bunts it towards cover 11.6 Chigumbura to Karate , no run , stands up and punches it to mid-off. The UAE batsmen have looked solid in defence 11.5 Chigumbura to K Khan , 1 run , back of a length on the hips , Khan tucks it to square leg for an easy single 11.4 Chigumbura to K Khan , FOUR , streaky ! Too full and outside off , Khan reaches out and looks to drive , ends up jamming it off the inside edge past the stumps , the ball runs away fine and beats the fielder in the deep. That was not far away from the off-pole 11.4 Chigumbura to K Khan , wide , short and down leg , Khan looks to tickle it fine , gets nothing on it 11.3 Chigumbura to Karate , 1 run , full on off and middle , Karate punches it to the right of mid-on for a sharp single 11.2 Chigumbura to Karate , no run , drags the length back , Karate shuffles across , taps it to mid-on 11.1 Chigumbura to Karate , no run , on a length just outside off , Karate presses it to cover off the front foot 11.1 Chigumbura to Karate , 5 wides , poor cricket all-round , starts with a slower one and slips it down leg , Karate ca n't lay bat on ball , Taylor does not glove it cleanly and the ball runs away to the boundary Elton Chigumbura , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 10.6 Solomon Mire to K Khan , no run , fuller and slanted across , Khan lifts his bat and lets it go The slip cordon has been strengthened. Two slips in place now. . Khurram Khan , left handed bat , comes to the crease 10.5 Solomon Mire to Andri Berenger , out Caught by Brendan Taylor ! ! Berenger does not make the most of the chances he has got. Dug in mid-way down the wicket , bit of extra bounce on that occasion , Berenger goes for the pull , gets a feather and Taylor snaffles an easy take. Andri Berenger c Brendan Taylor b Solomon Mire 22 ( 36 ) [ 4s-3 ] Solomon Mire to Andri Berenger , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 10.4 Solomon Mire to Andri Berenger , no run , good length ball around off , Berenger comes half-forward and blocks it towards cover 10.3 Solomon Mire to Andri Berenger , no run , banged in short and on leg-stump , Berenger was early into the pull , is hit on the glove. The ball then deflects onto the helmet and drops on the wicket 10.2 Solomon Mire to Andri Berenger , 2 runs , too straight , on middle stump line , Berenger flicks it in the air through the vacant mid-wicket region for a couple 10.1 Solomon Mire to Andri Berenger , FOUR , superb shot ! Fuller and on off , Berenger is not fully forward , but hits it through the line , in the air and straight down the ground. The umpire was ducking for cover there 9.6 Kamungozi to Karate , no run , slider on leg-stump , Karate hangs back and misses the nudge through the on-side , is struck on the pad 9.5 Kamungozi to Andri Berenger , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Berenger punches it to long-on 9.4 Kamungozi to Andri Berenger , no run , defended solidly off the front foot back down the wicket 9.3 Kamungozi to Andri Berenger , no run , slower and close to off , Berenger leans forward and knocks it to cover 9.2 Kamungozi to Karate , 1 run , straight roller on the stumps , Karate gets inside the line and works it to square leg A slip and leg slip are the two catching fielders. . 9.1 Kamungozi to Karate , no run , tossed up on off , Karate turns it gently to short mid-wicket Tafadzwa Kamungozi , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 8.6 Solomon Mire to Andri Berenger , no run , on a length just outside off , Berenger shoulders arms 8.5 Solomon Mire to Andri Berenger , no run , touch fuller than the previous deliveries , Berenger inches forward and pushes it to cover 8.4 Solomon Mire to Karate , 1 run , shortens the length on middle , Karate gets inside the line and tucks it behind square 8.3 Solomon Mire to Karate , no run , on a length just outside off , Karate pushes it back to the bowler , Mire sticks out his left hand and stops it 8.2 Solomon Mire to Karate , no run , back of a length and well wide of off , left alone 8.1 Solomon Mire to Karate , no run , short of length around off , Karate stands tall and punches it to cover Solomon Mire , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 7.6 Chatara to Andri Berenger , no run , goes wide of the crease and slants it in , Berenger covers the line and leaves it alone 7.5 Chatara to Andri Berenger , no run , pitched up outside off , Berenger drives it gently to mid-off 7.4 Chatara to Andri Berenger , no run , dug in mid-way down the wicket , Berenger sways away from the line of the delivery 7.4 Chatara to Andri Berenger , wide , short and down leg , Berenger swivels and fails to connect with the pull , wided by the umpire 7.3 Chatara to Andri Berenger , no run , on a length just outside off , Berenger presses forward and knocks it to point 7.2 Chatara to Andri Berenger , no run , peach ! Angled in and straightens , Berenger is drawn forward , he is beaten by the late movement 7.1 Chatara to Andri Berenger , no run , well outside off , Berenger is happy to let it go through to Taylor 6.6 Panyangara to Karate , no run , full and homing in on off , Karate push-drives it to mid-on 6.6 Panyangara to Karate , wide , bouncer on leg-stump , Karate sinks under it and lets it pass. He has been penalized for height as it was well over the batsman 6.5 Panyangara to Karate , no run , seams back in from a length , Karate works it off the inside part to square leg 6.4 Panyangara to Karate , no run , good length ball on off , Karate is half-forward and defending to cover 6.3 Panyangara to Andri Berenger , 1 run , another drop and run , this time from Berenger , he plays it with soft hands towards mid-on and calls for a brisk single 6.2 Panyangara to Karate , 1 run , fuller and on the stumps , Karate taps it in front of mid-on and takes off for a quick single. The fielder was a touch late to react 6.1 Panyangara to Karate , no run , good length ball outside off , Karate lifts his bat and lets it go 5.6 Chatara to Karate , 1 run , back of a length and holds its line , Karate goes fishing at it away from the body , the ball takes the outside edge and runs down to third man. It was not far away from the second slip fielder Krishnachandran Karate , right handed bat , comes to the crease 5.5 Chatara to Amjad Ali , out Caught by C Ervine ! ! Finally , Chatara has a wicket to his name. The catch is taken and it is also a legal delivery. Full and well wide of off , Ali reaches out for it , looks to squeeze it but can only manage an outside edge that flies to second slip , Ervine stays low and takes a good catch to his right. Chatara did n't even celebrate the wicket. Amjad Ali c C Ervine b Chatara 7 ( 17 ) [ 4s-1 ] Chatara to Amjad Ali , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 5.4 Chatara to Amjad Ali , no run , angled across the left-hander , Ali shuffles across , covers his stumps and shoulders arms 5.3 Chatara to Andri Berenger , 1 run , shortens the length just outside off , Berenger rides the bounce and steers it to third man 5.2 Chatara to Andri Berenger , no run , the line is too far outside off , Berenger is not interested in playing at those 5.1 Chatara to Andri Berenger , 2 runs , drifts it onto Berenger 's pads , he leans forward and flicks it to deep backward square leg for a brace 4.6 Panyangara to Amjad Ali , no run , length ball close to off , Ali defends it solidly to cover 4.5 Panyangara to Amjad Ali , no run , bumper on off , Ali ducks under and allows it to sail over him 4.4 Panyangara to Amjad Ali , no run , fuller and on the fourth stump line , Ali presses forward and pushes it to mid-off 4.3 Panyangara to Amjad Ali , FOUR , lovely shot ! The best shot of the innings so far. Good length ball just outside off , Ali comes on the front foot and drives it on the up , pierces it through point and cover to pick up his first boundary 4.2 Panyangara to Amjad Ali , no run , on a length close to off , Ali gets a good stride forward and knocks it to cover 4.1 Panyangara to Amjad Ali , no run , Ali leans forward and looks to clip it through the on-side , closes the bat face early and gets a soft leading edge to cover 3.6 Chatara to Andri Berenger , no run , stifled appeal for lbw , but the umpire is not interested. This was slanted back in , Berenger falls over on the flick shot and is rapped on the pads. The angle was taking it down leg. In fact , he got an inside edge onto the pad 3.5 Chatara to Andri Berenger , leg byes , FOUR , poor delivery from Chatara , strays onto the pads , even though Berenger did n't get any wood , the ball brushes the thigh pad and runs away fine for a boundary 3.4 Chatara to Andri Berenger , no run , plays it away from the body , taps it towards backward point 3.3 Chatara to Andri Berenger , no run , good length ball around off , Berenger pushes it to cover after coming on the front foot 3.2 Chatara to Andri Berenger , FOUR , Berenger has made full use of the free-hit , banged in short on the stumps , he backs away to the leg-side and muscles the pull in front of square. The ball almost carried the distance 3.2 Chatara to Andri Berenger , no ball , Taylor is a relieved man. He completes the catch and throws the ball in the air. The umpires check for a no-ball. Oh no ! Looks like the bowler does n't have anything behind the line , it is a very close one and is given in favour of the batsman. Again , the length is short and just outside off , Berenger has a poke at it away from the body and edges it to the keeper. Taylor 's joy is a short-lived one as Chatara had overstepped. To add salt to the wound , free-hit coming up 3.1 Chatara to Andri Berenger , no run , shortens the length , Berenger looks to tuck round the corner , he misses and wears it on the thigh pad 2.6 Panyangara to Andri Berenger , 1 run , fullish and angling in , Berenger goes for the drive and the ball squirts off the inside half wide of mid-on 2.5 Panyangara to Andri Berenger , FOUR , first boundary for UAE and it was not a convincing one. Pitched up on off and middle , Berenger is not to the pitch of the ball , he chips it over mid-on. There was enought bat on that to elude the fielder 2.4 Panyangara to Andri Berenger , no run , fuller and close to off , Berenger presses it to cover after coming forward 2.3 Panyangara to Amjad Ali , 1 run , good length ball around off , Ali leans forward to defend , the ball takes the thickish outside edge and runs down to third man 2.2 Panyangara to Amjad Ali , no run , beaten ! Ali goes for the drive with laden feet , the ball shapes away to beat the outside edge 2.1 Panyangara to Amjad Ali , no run , edged and short ! Nagging line from Panyangara , in the channel around off , Ali has a feel for it away from the body , the ball kisses the outside edge and falls just in front of Masakadza at first slip 1.6 Chatara to Andri Berenger , no run , fuller and moving away outside off , Berenger has nothing to do with it as he lets it go 1.5 Chatara to Andri Berenger , no run , once again comes forward to defend , the ball straightens and takes the outside half of the bat , rolls to the left of backward point 1.4 Chatara to Andri Berenger , no run , good length ball close to off , Berenger plays it with soft hands and dabs it towards point 1.3 Chatara to Andri Berenger , no run , slightly fuller and outside off , Berenger lifts his bat and lets it go 1.2 Chatara to Andri Berenger , no run , back of a length around off , Berenger stands tall and drops it to the off-side 1.1 Chatara to Andri Berenger , 2 runs , dropped ! Taylor has grassed a straightforward chance. Short of length and just outside off , Berenger pokes at it away from the body , the ball takes the outside edge and goes to the right of the keeper , Taylor moved across , got both hands and was only able to palm it over the first slip fielder Tendai Chatara , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Panyangara to Amjad Ali , no run , pitched up outside off , Ali goes hard on the drive , mistimes it to mid-off 0.5 Panyangara to Amjad Ali , no run , fuller and on off , Ali presses forward and blocks it in front of mid-off 0.4 Panyangara to Amjad Ali , 2 runs , in the air and safe ! The ball was up for a long time , but luckily for Ali it lands safely. Fuller and shapes back in , Ali goes for the flick through the on-side , gets a leading edge that skies over the back-tracking mid-off. Chigumbura was the fielder who was running back , the ball just about evades him 0.3 Panyangara to Amjad Ali , no run , teasing delivery from Panyangara , pitched up outside off , Ali goes for the drive , the ball slants away enough to beat the outside edge 0.2 Panyangara to Amjad Ali , no run , angles this across the left-hander , Ali covers his sticks and shoulders arms 0.1 Panyangara to Amjad Ali , no run , starts with a fullish delivery on off , Ali is half-forward and defending towards mid-off Amjad Ali and Andri Berenger are at the crease. Amjad Ali is on strike. Panyangara will open the attack Chigumbura has his team in a huddle. He has a few words for them before they take the field. The UAE openers make their way out to the middle. Amjad Ali marks his guard. Andri Berenger will be his partner. Panyangara to open the attack. He has a couple of slips to assist him. . Zimbabwe have made one change from their previous game against South Africa. Regis Chakabva comes in place of Chamu Chibhabha. The national anthems of both teams are played out. There is plenty of support for Zimbabwe . Pitch Report : " This pitch is being used for the second time in a space of two days. There are some wear marks from the bowlers ' followthrough in the last game , but in general it really still looks a good surface. There may be some moisture early on. We saw in the last game that it got better for batting as the game went on. The grass cover is nicely rolled. I think it should be a really good surface , " says Shaun Pollock . Teams : United Arab Emirates ( Playing XI ) : Amjad Ali , Andri Berenger , Krishnachandran Karate , Khurram Khan , Swapnil Patil ( w ) , Shaiman Anwar , Rohan Mustafa , Amjad Javed , Mohammad Naveed , Mohammad Tauqir ( c ) , Nasir Aziz Zimbabwe ( Playing XI ) : Sikandar Raza , Regis Chakabva , Hamilton Masakadza , Brendan Taylor ( w ) , Sean Williams , Craig Ervine , Elton Chigumbura ( c ) , Solomon Mire , Tinashe Panyangara , Tendai Chatara , Tafadzwa Kamungozi Zimbabwe have won the toss and have opted to field Chigumbura : " We had a lot postivies from the last game and looking to bounce back in this game. We are going to bowl first. I think it 's a good wicket to chase down a score , almost similar to the one in Hamilton. We would like to bat second as the pitch would get better to bat on later in the day. Hopefully , we can play good cricket today. We tried to work on the finishing bit , both with batting and bowling. So , hopefully we can finish well today. " Tauqir : " It 's a beautiful town , we have been here for 4-5 days and the weather is like back home. It looks like a good wicket to bat on and we would like to put up a decent total. In the last game between West Indies and Ireland , even 300 was not enough. Seems like a good wicket to bat on first , we are targeting anything between 280-300. We played Australia at MCG , so most of the nervousness has gone. We are looking forward to this game. We are injury-free , all ready to play and have fun in this game. " Head to head : These two teams have never played against each other and this will be the first time they are meeting in ODIs. Who will come out on top ? We 'll find out in a few hours time. Do n't go anywhere as the toss and teams are coming up in short while... . UAE Meanwhile , UAE played two warm-up games and were beaten in both. They were a no match to the mighty Australians , who thrashed them by 188 runs , but they came close to beating Afghansitan in their second game. Chasing a target of 309 , the most experienced batsman , Khurram Khan led from the front with a solid 86. The rest of the batters revolved around him , but it was not enough as they fell short by 14 runs . Skipper Mohammad Tauqir has said that they have set themselves a few goals going into the World Cup. One of the main targets being , beating one of the Test playing nations. With the group they are in , this game provides them the best opportunity to achieve that. If they play to their potential and are disciplined in the field , there is no reason why they ca n't beat Zimbabwe . Zimbabwe This will be Zimbabwe 's second game of the tournament. Their first was against South Africa , where they put up a spirited fight. They were set a target of 340 , most teams would have given up on the chase seeing the bowling attack the Proteas possessed , but not Zimbabwe. The Chamu Chibhabha-Hamilton Masakadza partnership gave them hope as the pair added 105 runs for the second wicket. Brendan Taylor , then came out with an attacking mindset to score a run-a-ball 40. They were well on course at 191/2 in 32.5 overs , but lost Masakadza and Taylor in quick succession. Those two wickets acted as a catalyst for South Africa , who then bowled them out for 277 . Going by recent form , Masakadza is the their best batsman. He scored a brilliant hundred against Sri Lanka in the practise game and led his side to victory. The hard-hitting batsman was not finished there , he also scored a quickfire 80 versus South Africa. If only the other batsmen provide him the support , then they could be a dangerous side with the bat. The bowling looked sharp in the first half of the South Africa game , but could not handle pressure at the death. However , they should be able to do well against a team like UAE . Let us have a look at the recent form of these two teams . Most of the lesser known teams have been impressive so far in their display. Let it be Ireland , who beat West Indies , or Scotland and Zimbabwe , who almost scared New Zealand and South Africa respectively. UAE and Zimbabwe lock horns today in this Group B encounter. The former are playing their first World Cup game in almost 20 years. The latter , on the other hand , go into this encounter as favorites considering their recent form . Preview : Despite a spirited display in their opening match , Zimbabwe ended up on the losing side against South Africa and they will be eager to get their campaign back on track when they take on minnows United Arab Emirates. The team from UAE , making their second World Cup appearance since 1996 , will be hoping to pull off some surprises but given Zimbabwe 's current form , it will be a tough task for the Asian team . Venue : Saxton Oval , Nelson
