Graphs That 's it from us ! We enjoyed bringing you the game. It 's a double-header tomorrow. Pakistan and West Indies take on each other in Christchurch , before Australia and Bangladesh clash in Brisbane. Looking forward to your company then. Take care and goodbye ! Well , New Zealand v England , two good bowling attacks and it 's going to be a good contest they said. But , only one bowling attack proved its reputation right. Tim Southee was exceptional with the ball and captain Brendon McCullum was severe with the bat. With this thrashing defeat , England have put a lot of pressure on themselves. Every game from here on is almost a must-win game for them to progress to the quarterfinals. Can Eoin Morgan 's men handle the pressure ? Only time will tell . Let 's take a look at some of the tweets . Mark Butcher : everything 's fine , heads in the sand , nothing to see here # evolve Trent Johnston : I just sat down to watch the cricket and it 's over... # CWC2015 # Minnows Damien Fleming : After todays thrashing a lot of fall out re " Minnows " in WorldCup but England have only been playing cricket since 1664 # InventedGame # NZvENG Luke Wright : Love the way McCullum goes about it ! Attack first , putting all bowlers under huge pressure. Always looking for boundaries not survive. # gun Aakash Chopra : Scotland not only scored 19 runs more but also took seven Kiwi wickets. # justsaying Michael Vaughan : A year ago Paul Downton described Peter Moores as the 'Coach of his Generation ' ! ! ! Alex Tudor : Be very very interesting to see the next @ ECB_cricket team selection ! ' # CWC2015 McCullum : " It was an incredible performance. We wanted to bat first as well , the pitch was very good , but the ability of our bowlers to swing the ball , they were outstanding. When Southee and Boult bowl like this , it 's pretty difficult for the batsmen. World-class performance. The crowd was amazing. It is amazing to have this bowling attack and we have guys on the sidelines who have done well for us. We 've had a great first week in the tournament. Now we have a bit of a break. Our fielding performance was very good , it was as good as it has been in a pretty long time. I am sure England will bounce back , but good to get the points against a strong England side. Credit to all the bowlers and the fielders. I might have a quiet beer in the dressing room ( smiles , when asked about his plans after finishing the match in a hurry ) . It 's nice to get a 100 partnership with Guptill. Thanks to the crowd for supporting us. " Morgan : " To be fair , New Zealand bowled really well. Credit goes to them. It was swinging throughout the innings and we expected it to be a batting-friendly track. Our first two games were the most difficult ones in the group stage and hopefully we can win the next game and build momentum from there on. I feel a lot better after today , struggled in the last few innings. He ( Brendon McCullum ) is not the ideal candidate to be bowling when you 've got just 123. He 's one of the most destructive batsmen in the world if he comes off and today he did. " Southee : " It 's a packed house , it was pretty special to come out and play. I think we 've been bowling well as a group for a long time now. Everyone has had their moments and I think today was just one of those days where everything went well for us. He ( Shane Bond , bowling coach ) has been great in the time that he 's been with us. I think he just gives you the confidence as a player and a lot of work behind the scenes he does is amazing. As a player you have a bit of a niggle any time , but with the work that Chris Donaldson ( Strength and Conditioning coach ) has done with us , we are a pretty fit unit. Another great team performance. " Tim Southee is the Man of the Match for his 7/33 England will be shell-shocked after this heavy defeat. Eoin Morgan and Co. need to show great resolve to put this defeat behind them when they take on Scotland in their next game in Christchurch. On the other hand , New Zealand will play Australia in Auckland . Earlier , McCullum led from the front by setting aggressive fields for New Zealand 's strike bowlers , Trent Boult and Southee. In fact , he had four slips when Southee and Boult were bowling. He showed tactical nous by bringing Southee back into the attack after the dismissal of Eoin Morgan. Southee responded by taking a slew of wickets to skittle England for a paltry score. To make it a perfect day for New Zealand , they fielded brilliantly , with McCullum leading from the front . Brendon McCullum followed up Southee 's sterling performance by smashing the English attack to shreds. He used his feet to play sumptuous shots while facing up to the English bowlers. In the sixth over of the innings , he plundered Steven Finn by thumping him for four consecutive sixes. By reaching his fifty off just 18 balls , McCullum also broke the record for the fastest fifty in the history of the World Cup. The previous record was set by McCullum himself against Canada in the 2007 World Cup. It also turned out to be the fastest fifty by a New Zealand cricketer and the third fastest in the history of ODIs . On the back of Tim Southee 's splendid exhibition of swing bowling , New Zealand thrash England by eight wickets. Southee 's masterful performance of 7 for 33 also turned out to be the best figures by a New Zealand cricketer in the history of ODIs. Southee generated prodigious swing , bowled a fuller length , used the crease and showed supreme control to rip through the English line-up. In particular , the yorkers he bowled to castle Moeen Ali and James Taylor were superb deliveries . This is the third biggest victory for New Zealand in terms of number of balls left. On the other hand , England slump to their joint heaviest defeat in ODIs . 12.3 Broad to Williamson , 5 wides , the crowd love it. Short ball on the stumps , Williamson was shaping up for the pull , but he lets it go at the last moment , the ball bounces over his head , the keeper tries to jump high and grab the ball but it evades him. New Zealand win by 8 wickets and they are all smiles in the dug-out 12.2 Broad to Williamson , no run , good length delivery just outside off stump , Williamson defends off the front foot. The crowd boo Williamson for eating up dot balls 12.1 Broad to Ross Taylor , 1 run , in the airrrr and safe ! Short delivery from Broad , Taylor looks to pull , gets a top edge , it goes high in the air , there is no one at mid-wicket , Ballance races to his right from mid-on , but just could n't get there in time 11.6 Woakes to Williamson , no run , oh yes ! Woakes has bowled a maiden. Good length delivery just outside off stump , Williamson defends from the crease Williamson pulls out as Woakes was running in. Someone was moving behind the bowler 's arm . 11.5 Woakes to Williamson , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , punched to mid-off 11.4 Woakes to Williamson , no run , close to the off stump , Williamson offers a compact forward defence. Looks like he wants to have batting practice 11.3 Woakes to Williamson , no run , fullish delivery outside off stump , Williamson defends 11.2 Woakes to Williamson , no run , this length ball nips away , Williamson shoulders arms 11.1 Woakes to Williamson , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Williamson drives away from the body and gets beaten 10.6 Broad to Ross Taylor , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Taylor cuts well , but backward point makes a good save diving to his left 10.5 Broad to Williamson , 1 run , short ball pulled well by Williamson , but Finn is patrolling the deep mid-wicket boundary and he tidies up 10.4 Broad to Williamson , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Williamson defends off the front foot 10.3 Broad to Williamson , no run , 'wait ' is the call from Williamson , after punching the short of length delivery off the back foot into the off-side 10.2 Broad to Williamson , 2 runs , short of length delivery on the leg stump , Williamson flicks it to deep mid-wicket for a couple of runs. New Zealand are just a hit away now 10.1 Broad to Williamson , no run , length outside off stump , blocked off the front foot Stuart Broad [ 1.0-0-18-0 ] is back into the attack Two slips for Broad . 9.6 Woakes to Ross Taylor , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Taylor punches it to cover 9.5 Woakes to Ross Taylor , FOUR , on the pads and that 's a gift for Taylor. Full and on the leg stump , Taylor flicks it along the ground through mid-wicket and he gets off the mark in style 9.4 Woakes to Ross Taylor , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Taylor defends Ross Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease Alright ! England need someone to do a Malinga from both ends ! 9.3 Woakes to Guptill , out Bowled ! ! Woakes has got his second wicket. Short of a length delivery from Woakes , the ball just nips away after pitching , Guptill stays rooted to the crease and tries to flick , he fails to make contact with the bat and it kisses the pad before crashing into the top of off stump. Guptill b Woakes 22 ( 22 ) [ 4s-3 ] Woakes to Guptill , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 9.2 Woakes to Guptill , no run , Guptill offers a compact forward defence and Woakes grabs the ball in his followthrough 9.1 Woakes to Guptill , no run , fullish and on the off stump , Guptill pushes it to mid-off Good to see Morgan have two slips in place . Welcome back... It 's just a formality for the Black Caps now. The players are striding out. New Zealand need 12 runs to win off 246 balls . New Zealand raced to 103 off just 40 balls as Baz continued to smash the England bowlers. However , Woakes came on and knocked him over with a full toss and sent him back for a 25-ball 77. The Black Caps need just 12 more runs to complete a thumping win. Take a break and join us back at 18 : 15 Local Time for the last rites . Phew ! After Tim Southee derailed England with a 7-wicket haul , some insane batting from Brendon McCullum has blown them away. Baz made his intentions very clear from the start. He smashed Stuart Broad for a six and a hat-trick of fours in the second over to push England on the back foot. Since then , Eoin Morgan & Co. found it very tough to keep him calm. When Finn came on to bowl in the 4th over of the innings , McCullum hit him for two fours and two sixes. He then bludgeoned four consecutive sixes in Finn 's second over and also completed the fastest ever World Cup fifty , it was also the fastest fifty for New Zealand in ODIs . The umpires have called for the dinner break. The crowd do n't like it , they are booing as umpire Tucker takes the bails off to end the session. Well , one can understand their feelings. New Zealand need just 12 runs , but the umpires went by the rules . 8.6 J Anderson to Williamson , 2 runs , shortish and outside off stump , Williamson rocks back and cuts it behind backward point 8.5 J Anderson to Williamson , no run , gently driven towards mid-off 8.4 J Anderson to Williamson , no run , full and outside off stump , Williamson shoulders arms 8.3 J Anderson to Williamson , no run , back of a length outside off stump , punched into the off-side 8.2 J Anderson to Williamson , no run , goes on the back foot and punches the short of length delivery to cover 8.1 J Anderson to Guptill , 1 run , fuller length delivery on the off stump , Guptill slogs and gets an inside edge to deep mid-wicket This is the cheapest over England have bowled today . 7.6 Woakes to Williamson , no run , fullish delivery outside off stump , Williamson defends off the front foot 7.5 Woakes to Williamson , FOUR , nice and full , easy picking for a class player like Williamson. The batsman does n't try to overhit the ball , just leans forward and on-drives the ball along the ground through mid-on 7.4 Woakes to Williamson , no run , on the off stump , tucked away to mid-wicket 7.3 Woakes to Williamson , no run , stands tall and punches the short of length delivery to cover 7.2 Woakes to Williamson , no run , good length delivery on the off stump , Williamson defends Kane Williamson , right handed bat , comes to the crease 7.1 Woakes to Brendon McCullum , out Bowled ! ! Oh that 's a bizarre dismissal. Would you believe it ? Baz has missed a full toss after advancing down the track. He asks the square leg umpire for height and it has been sent upstairs. It 's not above the waist and he has to go. The Cake Tin gives him a standing ovation. What a knock he 's played. McCullum tried to hit the new bowler out of the park , the ball takes a thin outside edge and crashes into middle and leg. McCullum ca n't believe he 's missed out on a freebie. Brendon McCullum b Woakes 77 ( 25 ) [ 4s-8 6s-7 ] Woakes to Brendon McCullum , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Chris Woakes , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 6.6 J Anderson to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , wow ! After a long time , McCullum drives a ball softly along the ground. Oh yes ! He wanted to take a single to keep strike. Driven along the ground to long-off. Anderson has a word with Baz as he arrives at the non-striker 's end 6.5 J Anderson to Brendon McCullum , no run , slower delivery down the leg-side , McCullum swings hard and gets an inside edge that rolls to short fine leg 6.5 J Anderson to Brendon McCullum , wide , Anderson sprays this down the leg-side 6.4 J Anderson to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , it 's a slower ball , it 's a slog and it 's four ! These two have added 103 runs in 40 balls. McCullum picked that early , he waited for it to come , it came on the full and he swung it away through mid-wicket 6.3 J Anderson to Guptill , 3 runs , short of length delivery down the leg side , Guptill glances it fine to fine leg 6.2 J Anderson to Guptill , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , punched to point this time 6.1 J Anderson to Guptill , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , punched to mid-off 5.6 Finn to Brendon McCullum , SIX , the New Zealand skipper is unstoppable today. Finn has now gone for 49 runs in his 2 overs. No mercy whatsoever from Baz. Well , if you bowl juicy balls to a man who 's going absolutely berserk , you wo n't survive. This time McCullum hits it straight back over the bowler 's head 5.5 Finn to Brendon McCullum , SIX , this is insane batting ! Baz , the bloke who 's bowling got a fifer and a hat-trick in the last match. Please be kind on him. Full and on the off stump , McCullum lofts it handsomely over mid-off The England players have a conference meeting . 5.4 Finn to Brendon McCullum , SIX , my word ! He 's flat-batted that all the way. Oh he 's hit the roof of the car which is there for exhibition beyond the boundary line. Short and wide outside off stump , McCullum smashes it over wide long-off 5.3 Finn to Brendon McCullum , SIX , fastest World Cup fifty and the fastest for New Zealand in ODIs. What a way to get there. Short and wide outside off stump , McCullum slightly backs away and cuts fiercely , the ball sails over deep point. Guptill gives Baz a hug 5.2 Finn to Guptill , 1 run , big cheer from the crowd as Guptill defends this to mid-on and takes a single 5.1 Finn to Guptill , FOUR , boy ! What a shot ! His front leg was going right across the line towards cover-point , but he 's managed to time the pull shot so sweetly. Short of a length delivery on the off stump , Guptill smashes it through backward square leg 4.6 J Anderson to Guptill , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Guptill looks to drive , gets a thickish edge that goes uppishly to square third man. He 'll keep strike 4.5 J Anderson to Guptill , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Guptill shoulders arms 4.4 J Anderson to Guptill , leg byes , FOUR , bad ball ! Anderson attempts the inswinger but it goes down the leg-side , Guptill misses the flick , the ball runs off the thigh pad , interestingly there is no fine leg in place 4.4 J Anderson to Guptill , wide , down the leg-side , Guptill tries to tickle it away but misses 4.3 J Anderson to Guptill , FOUR , it 's a mere flick and it 's raced away for four ! Fullish and just outside off stump , Guptill flicks it uppishly , gets it in the gap between mid-on and mid-wicket 4.2 J Anderson to Guptill , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Guptill defends off the back foot 4.1 J Anderson to Guptill , no run , fullish and on the off stump , Guptill defends and gets a thickish edge that rolls to mid-wicket Twenty runs came off that Finn over. At this rate , this game should be over in 4-5 overs . 3.6 Finn to Brendon McCullum , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , McCullum steps out and throws the kitchen sink at it , but misses 3.5 Finn to Brendon McCullum , SIX , in the airrrrr and it goes all the way. Full and outside off stump , McCullum clears his front leg out of the way and lofts it hard over mid-off. Finn overcompensates his length and pays the penalty 3.4 Finn to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , pulled ! Too short , absolutely poor bowling from Finn. There is so much swing on offer if you bowl full , but he opts to bang it short and gets punished. McCullum rocks back and pulls powerfully through mid-wicket for four more. He 's already hit 7 fours 3.3 Finn to Brendon McCullum , no run , shortish from Finn again , McCullum tries the upper-cut but misses 3.2 Finn to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , oh he 's guided this straight back over the keeper 's head. Short ball from Finn , McCullum backed away and scooped it very straight , the ball almost went all the way 3.1 Finn to Brendon McCullum , SIX , James Anderson , Stuart Broad , Steve Finn , who have you got ? Bring them on ! Full and outside off stump , juicy ball from Finn , McCullum dances down the track and muscles it inside-out over extra-cover Steven Finn , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 2.6 J Anderson to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , Anderson takes pace off the ball this time , McCullum waits for the ball and works it to deep mid-wicket to keep strike 2.5 J Anderson to Brendon McCullum , no run , low full toss on the off stump , McCullum drives with an open face and picks out Root at backward point 2.4 J Anderson to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , full and swinging away around the off stump line , McCullum looks to drive hard through cover , but ends up slicing it in the end , the ball goes away to the deep backward point boundary again 2.3 J Anderson to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , down the track again. Fuller in length from Anderson , McCullum swings hard at it , he gets it on the outside half of the bat , it goes in the air but well over backward point 2.2 J Anderson to Guptill , 1 run , outswinging short of length delivery outside off stump , Guptill cuts uppishly and it goes on the bounce to third man 2.1 J Anderson to Guptill , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , punched off the back foot 1.6 Broad to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , ha ha ! Baz is having fun ! He 's a great sight to watch when he gets going. Full and in the slot , McCullum does n't try to overhit the ball this time , just lofts it inside-out over extra-cover and it runs away for four. 18 runs off the over and New Zealand are already 27/0 1.5 Broad to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , wow ! Only Baz can do it ! Hardly any width on offer on this offering from Broad , it 's a short of length delivery , McCullum backs away and cuts , what 's more , he cuts fiercely as well , it goes flat and one bounce into the backward point fence Anderson has a chat with Broad ! 1.4 Broad to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , Baz puts the dancing shoes on , the fact that Broad offered a juicy full ball helped his cause as well , McCullum gets to the pitch of the ball and lofts , it does n't catch the middle of the bat but it 's good enough to go over mid-on 1.3 Broad to Brendon McCullum , no run , McCullum gives the charge to the bowler , Broad follows him with a short of length delivery and beats the inside edge 1.2 Broad to Brendon McCullum , no run , he 's going hard at it ! Outswinger on a fuller length , McCullum looks to crash it through cover , but the ball hits the toe-end and rolls to point 1.1 Broad to Brendon McCullum , SIX , that 's an upper cut and it 's gone all the way ! What an authoritative shot ! Shortish delivery outside off stump , enough width on offer for Baz to free his arms , McCullum swings very fast and it sails over the third man boundary Just two slips for Broad ! Stuart Broad , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 J Anderson to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , nice and full from Anderson , McCullum steers it down to third man , who has been pushed back for McCullum 0.5 J Anderson to Guptill , 3 runs , outside edge , but Guptill played that with soft hands. Full and swinging away outside off stump , Guptill drives and gets a thick edge , the ball goes to the right of fourth slip , Moeen Ali gives chase and saves one with a slide 0.4 J Anderson to Guptill , FOUR , first runs off the bat ! Outswinger on a fuller length , Guptill leans forward and drives well with an angled bat , the ball runs along the ground through cover-point and races away to the boundary Moeen Ali has been moved from third man to fourth slip . 0.3 J Anderson to Guptill , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Guptill defends 0.2 J Anderson to Guptill , no run , full and swinging outside off stump , Guptill shoulders arms 0.1 J Anderson to Guptill , no run , big swing for Anderson. Guptill chases at this outswinger and almost edges it to the keeper 0.1 J Anderson to Guptill , wide , wayward start from Anderson. Attempts the outswinger , but bowls this way outside off stump Three slips in place . Guptill and Brendon McCullum are at the crease. Guptill is on strike. J Anderson will open the attack So then , the England players are striding out. McCullum and Guptill walk out as well. Are they going to go hard at England ? We 'll find out soon . Southee : " We are good swing bowlers and , though we lost the toss , it swung around the whole innings. The ball stayed in reasonable shape. It 's an amazing feeling. The atmosphere here has been amazing and it 's a pleasure to play in front of them. We 've done half of the job , but they have quality bowlers. " For England , only Joe Root showed the technique and application to play the swinging ball well. Rest of the batsmen paid the price for hanging back in the crease. England have an uphill task on their hands to make a comeback into the game after being bowled out for a paltry score . Brendon McCullum , New Zealand 's captain , also deserves the credit for setting aggressive fields. When New Zealand 's key bowlers , Trent Boult and Southee were bowling , he had four slips. He also showed tactical nous when Eoin Morgan was dismissed by bringing Southee back into the attack. Southee responded by taking a slew of wickets. To make it even better , New Zealand fielded brilliantly , with McCullum leading the way . Tim Southee produced a wonderful exhibition of swing bowling to put New Zealand on top. Southee generated prodigious swing , bowled a full length and used the crease to hoop it around the corners and trouble all the English batsmen. He started on a good note by shattering the stumps of Ian Bell , with the one that left the right-hander. He set-up Bell 's opening partner , Moeen Ali beautifully with a bouncer before uprooting the stumps with a searing yorker. He followed it up by taking the wickets of James Taylor , Jos Buttler , Chris Woakes , Stuart Broad and Steven Finn to finish with seven wickets to his name. It turned out to be the first time a bowler from New Zealand took seven wickets in One-Day cricket . New Zealand are absolutely ecstatic and Tim Southee leads them off the field. If he had got one more wicket , he would have snatched the record from Glenn McGrath for the best bowling figures in World Cups . 33.2 Milne to J Root , out Caught by Vettori ! ! That 's it ! England have been bowled out for 123. Southee can not get the best bowling figures in World Cup cricket. Short of a length delivery from Milne , Root tries to pull , similar to the previous match , he gets a top-edge and this time , it goes straight to fine leg , who does n't make a mistake. J Root c Vettori b Milne 46 ( 70 ) [ 4s-3 ] Milne to J Root , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 33.1 Milne to J Root , FOUR , cracking shot from Root ! Short of a length and a bit of width on it , Root rocks back and cuts it fiercely to the left of backward point and third man had no chance Adam Milne [ 5.0-1-21-0 ] is back into the attack 32.6 Southee to J Anderson , no run , low full toss outside off stump , Anderson does n't want to disturb the line of the ball and lets it go 32.5 Southee to J Root , 1 run , swinging away outside off stump , Root drives away to deep point for a run 32.4 Southee to J Anderson , 1 run , inswinger to Anderson , on a fuller length and Anderson manages to keep it out , gets an inside edge that rolls to deep square leg James Anderson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 32.3 Southee to Finn , out Caught by Ross Taylor ! ! Best bowling figures for New Zealand in ODIs. Full and swinging away outside off stump , Finn pushes tentatively at it , gets a thick edge , Taylor moves to his right and takes it easily at first slip. Root is not happy at the non-striker 's end. The New Zealand players mob Southee to congratulate him. Finn c Ross Taylor b Southee 0 ( 8 ) Southee to Finn , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Four slips in place . 32.2 Southee to Finn , no run , fullish delivery on the off stump , Finn defends and gets a thickish edge to square leg 32.1 Southee to J Root , 1 run , good length delivery swinging away outside off stump , Root defends it to deep backward point 31.6 Boult to Finn , no run , fullish and on the off stump , Finn defends. That 's a maiden from Boult and he ends with 10-2-32-1. He provided great support to Southee , who did all the damage 31.5 Boult to Finn , no run , full and outside off stump , Finn shoulders arms 31.4 Boult to Finn , no run , soft appeal for LBW , short of length delivery down the leg-side , Finn fails to defend and gets hit on the pad 31.3 Boult to Finn , no run , short of length delivery on the leg stump , Finn fends it into the on-side 31.2 Boult to Finn , no run , round the wicket , short and outside off stump , Finn drops his wrists and lets it go 31.1 Boult to Finn , no run , Finn defends this gently from the crease 30.6 Southee to J Root , no run , this is a leading edge , but it 's soft and it rolls into the off-side. Full and swinging away outside off stump , Root was looking to work it on the on-side on that occasion 30.5 Southee to J Root , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Root defends into the off-side Steven Finn , right handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now 30.4 Southee to Broad , out Caught by Vettori ! ! It 's a six-wicket haul now ! Take a bow Tim Southee ! This has been a great exhibition. England have lost 5 wickets for 12 runs now. Full and following the batsman as he was backing away , Broad , very worried about his foot , gets into a bit of a tangle as he tries to work this into the on-side , the bat turns in his hands and it pops up in the air. Mid-off runs to left and dives to complete the catch. Broad c Vettori b Southee 4 ( 10 ) Southee to Broad , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 30.3 Southee to Broad , no run , fullish and just outside off stump , blocked 30.2 Southee to Broad , 2 runs , this is ugly from Broad ! He is not even attempting to get behind the line of the ball ! It was very full , he attempted to loft it over the top , mistimed it completely and it lands safely behind mid-on 30.1 Southee to Broad , no run , yorker outside off stump , Broad looks to dig it out but gets an inside edge that rolls into the on-side 29.6 Boult to Broad , 1 run , slightly fuller this time and on middle and leg , Broad clips it towards mid-wicket and retains strike 29.5 Boult to Broad , no run , how did that miss the stumps ? It was slightly back of a length and on off and middle , Broad was looking to defend that off the back foot , the ball goes over his stumps , Broad was nowhere near the ball there 29.4 Boult to Broad , no run , stifled appeal from the Kiwis as Broad , who had backed away to this ball , misses one on the pads. It was snaking down leg though 29.3 Boult to Broad , no run , just short of a good length and on the stumps , Broad stays back and knocks it towards cover-point 29.2 Boult to Broad , no run , good ball from Boult , it was fuller and just outside off , Broad was looking to defend with laden feet , the ball goes past the outside edge Three slips in place for Broad 29.1 Boult to J Root , 1 run , in the channel outside off , Root runs it down to third man after opening the face of the bat , Broad will be on strike now Trent Boult [ 8.0-1-30-1 ] is back into the attack 28.6 Southee to J Root , 1 run , straying on the pads this time , Root clips it behind square for a single , he will keep the strike 28.5 Southee to Broad , 1 run , yorker outside off , Broad stays back , opens the face of the bat and squeezes it out to third man Stuart Broad , left handed bat , comes to the crease 28.4 Southee to Woakes , out Bowled ! ! Southee gets another one. A 5-wicket haul for him. This is just too pleasing to see from the Kiwi bowler. Southee went wide of the crease and bowls this on a good length. The ball straightens just a touch as Woakes was looking to defend , he misses and the ball rattles into the off stump. This is an exhibition of some great pace bowling from Southee. Woakes b Southee 1 ( 2 ) Southee to Woakes , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 28.3 Southee to J Root , leg byes , 1 run , walks across and looks to clip this delivery on the pads into the leg-side , he fails to connect and the batsmen sneak in a leg bye 28.2 Southee to Woakes , 1 run , ohh that was close ! It was almost a yorker on the stumps , but Woakes just about manages to get his bat down in time , the ball rolls away towards third man off the outside edge , had he missed that , he was a goner Chris Woakes , right handed bat , comes to the crease 28.1 Southee to Buttler , out Caught by Ronchi ! ! Southee is on fire here. England are in deep trouble , they are six down now. It was fuller and outside off , it swings away just enough to take the outside edge of Buttler , who was pushing at it away from his body. The ball swung late and did the trick for Southee. These are the best bowling figures by a New Zealnd player against England in a World Cup game. Buttler c Ronchi b Southee 3 ( 7 ) Southee to Buttler , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 27.6 Vettori to J Root , no run , defends this flatter delivery off the back foot 27.5 Vettori to J Root , no run , flatter on leg , Root came down the track , but fails to connect with the clip , the ball rolls away behind square off the pad 27.4 Vettori to Buttler , 1 run , floated up outside off , Buttler bunts it square of the wicket for a single 27.3 Vettori to Buttler , no run , pushed through on the stumps , Buttler looks to defend , the ball rolls away into the on-side off the inside half of the bat 27.2 Vettori to J Root , 1 run , eases this tossed up delivery outside off to long-off 27.1 Vettori to J Root , no run , was that pad first ? New Zealand do n't have a review though. It was floated up on middle , Root looks to defend , he leans forward but does n't meet the ball. It is pad first. The ball hits him high on the pad and rolls away into the off-side. He was a long way forward as well and the umpire was n't interested 26.6 Southee to Buttler , 2 runs , bowls this one on the pads , Buttler clips it past mid-wicket , the fielder gives chase and the batsmen take two before the ball is hunted down 26.5 Southee to Buttler , no run , beauty ! It was fuller and shapes away from just outside off , Buttler was pushing at it , but was nowhere near the ball , this is fantastic bowling as he is getting the ball to swing even at this stage 26.4 Southee to Buttler , no run , banged in short and outside off , Buttler sways away from the line and leaves it for the keeper 26.3 Southee to Buttler , no run , full toss angling in on middle and leg , Buttler works it to mid-wicket Jos Buttler , right handed bat , comes to the crease 26.2 Southee to James Taylor , out Bowled ! ! Southee gets another one. This is superb bowling from him , another peach of a delivery. Taylor , England 's mainstay in the last game , departs for a duck. It was very full in length and swinging away , Taylor was looking to defend , but he misses it completely as it swings away late. The ball crashes into the off stump and Southee is delighted to have his man. This is his third wicket of the innings. James Taylor b Southee 0 ( 2 ) Southee to James Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 26.1 Southee to James Taylor , no run , fuller and outside off , the ball shapes away as Taylor tries to jam it out , the bowler appealed , but the umpire was n't interested , good ball to start the new spell Tim Southee [ 5.0-0-23-2 ] is back into the attack James Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 25.6 Vettori to Eoin Morgan , out Caught by Milne ! ! Captain Morgan goes. That was a nothing shot from the English skipper. It was flighted delivery on the stumps , Morgan looked to loft this one over the long-on fence , but was n't upto the pitch of the ball. He had to reach out for it and ends up not going at it whole heartedly. Milne from long-on runs to his right , dives and takes a superb catch. The umpires check for the no-ball , but Vettori had some part of the foot behind the line , but only just. Eoin Morgan c Milne b Vettori 17 ( 41 ) [ 4s-1 ] Vettori to Eoin Morgan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 25.5 Vettori to Eoin Morgan , no run , tossed up around off and middle , Morgan pushes it into the off-side 25.4 Vettori to J Root , 1 run , floated up on off , Root comes forward and drives it to sweeper cover 25.3 Vettori to Eoin Morgan , 1 run , drifting on the pads , Morgan works it behind square and gets to the other end 25.2 Vettori to Eoin Morgan , no run , flighted delivery on middle and leg , Morgan eases it to the left of the bowler , where Baz from mid-wicket runs across , dives and prevents the batsmen from taking the single 25.1 Vettori to Eoin Morgan , no run , pushed through on middle and leg , pushed back to the bowler 24.6 Corey Anderson to Eoin Morgan , 1 run , slightly shortish and angling away outside off , Morgan cuts it towards point , who was a little deep. The batsmen take a single 24.5 Corey Anderson to J Root , leg byes , 1 run , on the pads once again , Root fails to work it through the on-side and the batsmen hare across for a leg bye as the ball dribbles away into the on-side , the bowler runs across and has a shy at the non-striker 's end , the batsman dived to make his ground 24.4 Corey Anderson to J Root , no run , in the channel outside off , Root gets behind the line and defends with a straight bat 24.3 Corey Anderson to Eoin Morgan , leg byes , 1 run , another one angling in on leg , Morgan fails to tickle it fine and the ball rolls away behind square on the leg-side , the batsmen take another leg bye 24.2 Corey Anderson to Eoin Morgan , no run , on a good length and outside off , Morgan defends it into the off-side 24.1 Corey Anderson to J Root , leg byes , 1 run , on the pads again , Root fails to glance it fine , the batsmen run a leg bye as the ball rolls away behind square after clipping the pad 23.6 Vettori to J Root , 1 run , pushed through on the stumps , Root clips it wide of mid-on , where Boult runs to his right , dives and saves some runs for his team 23.5 Vettori to J Root , no run , quicker and drifting onto the pads , Root turns it behind square Long-on comes into the circle for Root 23.4 Vettori to Eoin Morgan , 1 run , slows this one on leg , Morgan tucks it away behind square for a single 23.3 Vettori to Eoin Morgan , no run , tossed up on off , Morgan lunges forward in defence 23.2 Vettori to Eoin Morgan , no run , touch quicker and on the stumps , Morgan works it towards mid-wicket 23.1 Vettori to Eoin Morgan , no run , floated outside off , Morgan makes room and looks to cut , but the ball goes past his blade Daniel Vettori [ 4.0-0-13-0 ] is back into the attack Change of ends for Vettori 22.6 Corey Anderson to Eoin Morgan , 1 run , angling into the pads this time , worked away to deep square leg , Morgan will keep the strike 22.5 Corey Anderson to Eoin Morgan , FOUR , good shot from Morgan , Anderson ovepitched this one outside off , Morgan drills the drive through the covers and the ball runs away to the fence in no time 22.4 Corey Anderson to Eoin Morgan , no run , action replay of the last ball as Morgan chops another one and the ball rolls away behind the wickets 22.3 Corey Anderson to Eoin Morgan , no run , shortish and wide outside off , Morgan looks to cut , but ends up chopping it behind the pitch off the toe-end of the bat 22.2 Corey Anderson to J Root , 1 run , fuller in length and outside off , Root looks to drive and gets an outside edge that runs away to third man , had there been a gully , it would have carried straight to him Just a slip in place for Anderson 22.1 Corey Anderson to J Root , no run , in the channel outside off , Root pushes it towards the point region 22.1 Corey Anderson to J Root , wide , starts off with a poor delivery from round the wicket , it was down leg , Root fails to glance it fine and the umpire calls it a wide Corey Anderson , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Anderson comes into the attack , replacing Vettori 21.6 Milne to Eoin Morgan , no run , angled across off , Morgan pushes it towards extra cover 21.5 Milne to J Root , 3 runs , fuller on off and middle , Root punches it past the non-striker , Baz from mid-off gives chase , puts in the dive near the boundary and saves a run for his team , good fielding effort from Baz 21.4 Milne to Eoin Morgan , 1 run , bangs this one short and at the batsman , Morgan swivels and pulls it to long leg , he rolled his wrists over it to send it along the ground 21.3 Milne to J Root , 1 run , just short of a good length outside off , Root steers it past backward point and gets to the other end 21.2 Milne to J Root , no run , fuller this time and outside off once again , Root comes forward and drives it to mid-off 21.1 Milne to J Root , no run , on a good length and outside off , Root pushes it to short cover 20.6 Vettori to Eoin Morgan , 2 runs , backs away to this flatter delivery and punches it through the covers for a couple 20.5 Vettori to J Root , 1 run , dances down the track and clips this fullish delivery towards mid-on , the batsmen take a quick single 20.4 Vettori to J Root , no run , tossed up around off , Root drives it to the left of the bowler , where Baz runs across from cover , dives and stops the ball , good fielding from the Kiwi captain 20.3 Vettori to Eoin Morgan , 1 run , gives the charge to this flighted delivery outside off , Morgan was pushing at it hard , the ball goes square of the wicket off the outside half , it was in the air for a little while , but in the gap 20.2 Vettori to J Root , 1 run , floated up on off , Root eases it down to long-on 20.1 Vettori to J Root , no run , quicker and flatter from Vettori , Root hangs back , opens the face of the bat and guides it to short third man 19.6 Milne to Eoin Morgan , no run , back of a length delivery angling away outside off , Morgan stays back and dabs it towards shortish point 19.5 Milne to J Root , 1 run , slightly back of a length and outside off , Root hangs back , opens the face of the bat and steers it towards third man , easy single for the batsmen 19.4 Milne to J Root , FOUR , banged in short and at the batsman , Root goes for the hook , the ball goes off the top-edge and crashes into the fine leg fence on the bounce , Root was not in total control of that shot 19.3 Milne to J Root , no run , on a good length and outside off , Root comes on the front foot and drives it to mid-off 19.2 Milne to J Root , 2 runs , just short of a good length and outside off , Root opens the face of the bat and dabs it between the fielders at slip and gully , the batsmen take two before third man tidies up 19.1 Milne to J Root , no run , fuller in length and outside off , Root was drawn into the drive , but the ball goes past the outside edge 18.6 Vettori to Eoin Morgan , no run , pushed through on the pads , Morgan nurdles it towards short fine leg , ca n't get the single 18.5 Vettori to Eoin Morgan , no run , flighted delivery on middle and leg , Morgan defends 18.4 Vettori to Eoin Morgan , no run , slower through the air this time , Morgan was looking to come down the track , but defends at the last moment 18.3 Vettori to J Root , 1 run , gives this one more air around off , Root eases it down to long-off and gets to the other end 18.2 Vettori to J Root , no run , floated up on off , Root pushes it back to the bowler 18.1 Vettori to J Root , no run , flatter on off , Root turns it towards mid-wicket 17.6 Milne to Eoin Morgan , no run , length delivery angled across off , Morgan is happy to let that one go , the keeper collects 17.5 Milne to Eoin Morgan , no run , on a good length and on off , Morgan defends with soft hands Umpire Tucker gave Milne a friendly warning about running on the danger area. Not official though 17.4 Milne to Eoin Morgan , no run , in the channel outside off , Morgan gets behind the line and blocks it into the off-side 17.3 Milne to Eoin Morgan , no run , angles this one away outside off , Morgan puts his front foot forward and leaves it for the keeper 17.2 Milne to Eoin Morgan , no run , good ball from Milne , it was slightly back of a length and just outside off , Morgan leaves and the ball was not far away from the off stump 17.1 Milne to Eoin Morgan , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Morgan pushes it to the right of the non-striker and was looking for the single , but the fielder from cover was quick to get across and Morgan has to go back Adam Milne [ 2.0-0-9-0 ] is back into the attack 16.6 Vettori to J Root , no run , slightly short and little wide outside off , Root opens the face of the bat and dabs it towards short third man 16.5 Vettori to J Root , no run , floated up on off , Root defends with a straight bat 16.4 Vettori to J Root , 2 runs , pushed through on middle and leg , Root clips it through mid-wicket and gets back for the second 16.3 Vettori to Eoin Morgan , 1 run , tossed up on middle stump line , Morgan eases it past the bowler and the batsmen take a single 16.2 Vettori to Eoin Morgan , no run , flighted delivery on the stumps , Morgan defends 16.1 Vettori to J Root , 1 run , floated outside off , Root drives it to long off 15.6 Boult to J Root , 1 run , pushed past backward point for another run , he will keep the strike 15.5 Boult to J Root , no run , on a good length and on off , Root pushes it towards mid-off , where Baz dives to his right and stops the ball 15.4 Boult to Eoin Morgan , 3 runs , Boult bowls this one around off and gets Morgan to push at it , the ball rolls away past gully off the outside half of the bat , there was no third man in place and the batsmen take three 15.3 Boult to J Root , 3 runs , on a good length and outside off , Root crashes it past backward point , Vettori from third man dives and pulls the ball back just in time to save a run 15.2 Boult to J Root , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Root opens the face of the bat and looks to run it down to third man , but Williamson at gully dives to his right and stops the ball 15.1 Boult to J Root , no run , angles this one across , Root goes across and pushes it towards backward point Drinks are on the field now. It 's been a struggle for England. Boult and Southee were very impressive and reaped the rewards. Root is looking in good touch and Morgan has just arrived. They will need to stabilize the innings with a big stand . 14.6 Vettori to Eoin Morgan , no run , Vettori tosses one on the off-stump line , Morgan went for the reverse sweep and got hit on the glove 14.5 Vettori to J Root , 1 run , slower and on off , driven down towards long-off for a single 14.4 Vettori to Eoin Morgan , 1 run , Vettori drops one short and well outside off , Morgan makes room and cuts it square behind point for a single 14.3 Vettori to Eoin Morgan , no run , flatter and quicker from Vettori , Morgan dabbed it towards short third man and wants a single. Boult is quick on the ball , Root sends his skipper back , just in time 14.2 Vettori to J Root , 1 run , tossed up and just outside off , Root makes room and punches it square on the off-side for a single 14.1 Vettori to J Root , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Root shuffles across and clips it towards mid-wicket Daniel Vettori , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 13.6 Boult to Eoin Morgan , no run , fuller length delivery and nipping back into Morgan , he presses across and gets an inside edge onto the defensive push Three slips , a gully and a short point in place 13.5 Boult to Eoin Morgan , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , left alone 13.4 Boult to Eoin Morgan , no run , he 's followed it up with a yorker , the line is just outside off , Morgan was looking to squeeze it towards the off-side and misses , he 's under immediate pressure here 13.3 Boult to Eoin Morgan , no run , that 's nicely bowled , tad fuller and leaving Morgan at the last moment , opens Morgan up , gets the thick edge that does n't carry through to gully 13.2 Boult to Eoin Morgan , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , left alone Eoin Morgan , left handed bat , comes to the crease 13.1 Boult to Ballance , out Caught by Williamson ! ! That 's a tame dismissal for Ballance. Boult has bowled some excellent deliveries but gets a wicket with his worst ball of the spell. This was short , this was wide , it should have been put away to the boundary. Perhaps the ball did n't come on to the bat , Ballance was shaping for the pull , ends up hanging his bat at that , the ball goes off the cue end of the bat and loops gently towards short cover. Williamson takes the dolly diving to his right. Ballance walks away in disappointment. Ballance c Williamson b Boult 10 ( 26 ) Boult to Ballance , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 12.6 Milne to Ballance , 1 run , short and on Ballance 's hips , tucked away towards fine leg for a single 12.5 Milne to Ballance , no run , tad fuller and on the off-stump channel , Ballance tucks it towards mid-wicket with an angled bat 12.4 Milne to Ballance , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Ballance hops across and turns it towards short mid-wicket 12.3 Milne to J Root , 1 run , full and angling into Root 's pads , worked past Vettori at mid-on for a single 12.2 Milne to J Root , FOUR , nicely played by Root , tad fuller and well outside off , Root was leaning onto the shot , gets on top of the bounce and punches it past cover-point for a boundary 12.1 Milne to J Root , no run , short of a length and holding its line outside off , left alone 11.6 Boult to Ballance , no run , Boult goes past the outside edge once again ! This was pitched up and shapes away very late , draws Ballance forward and whizzes past the outside edge , excellent bowling from Boult , but he has n't had the rewards to show for it 11.5 Boult to Ballance , 2 runs , back of a length and well outside off , Ballance waits on it and dabs it past gully , there 's no third man in place. Milne runs behind the ball , puts in the slide and pulls the ball back in , two runs for Ballance 11.4 Boult to Ballance , 2 runs , too straight from Boult , allows Ballance to work it behind square on the on-side for a single 11.3 Boult to Ballance , no run , this is excellent bowling from Boult , he is getting some late movement to hassle Ballance , he is neither forward nor back , feels for the ball and is beaten on the outside edge 11.2 Boult to J Root , 1 run , short and on Root 's pads , tucked away towards long leg for a single 11.1 Boult to J Root , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Root presses forward and defends it towards the bowler 10.6 Milne to Ballance , no run , Milne shortens his length and angles one onto Ballance 's thigh pad , he was looking to nudge it towards the on-side and is struck high on the thigh pad 10.5 Milne to Ballance , no run , this is even better ! Tad fuller and shaping away very late , draws Ballance forward and zips past the outside edge 10.4 Milne to Ballance , no run , Ballance is beaten for pace , this one nipped back in from a length and hit Ballance high on the pads , the ball rolls away towards second slip 10.4 Milne to Ballance , wide , Milne has n't got his line right , slips this one down leg-side once again , signalled as a wide 10.4 Milne to Ballance , wide , another bumper from Milne , but this is well down leg-side , wide called 10.3 Milne to Ballance , no run , the bumper from Milne , Ballance watches it all along and ducks underneath it 10.2 Milne to J Root , 1 run , Milne keeps it on a back of a length channel and just outside off , dabbed away with an angled bat towards third man 10.1 Milne to J Root , no run , back of a length and well outside off , Root looks to punch and gets a bottom edge towards backward point Adam Milne , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 9.6 Boult to Ballance , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Ballance gets behind the line and defends it 9.5 Boult to J Root , 1 run , too short from Boult , Root swivels across , rolls his wrists and pulls it down towards long leg 9.4 Boult to J Root , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Root drops his bottom hand and defends it back towards the bowler 9.3 Boult to J Root , no run , another loud shout for LBW , but there was a big inside edge on that , Root was half-forward to one that nipped back in , just about gets his bat down in time 9.2 Boult to J Root , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Root shuffles across and dabs it towards the off-side 9.1 Boult to J Root , no run , on a length and just outside off , Root plays with an open face and pushes it towards point 8.6 Southee to Ballance , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Ballance presses across and defends it with a straight bat 8.5 Southee to J Root , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , worked in front of cover-point for a single 8.4 Southee to Ballance , leg byes , 1 run , another shout for LBW , but it looked like the ball pitched well outside leg , it was the cutter from Southee , Ballance was looking to flick and missed , was swinging down leg as well. Replays in : Hawk-Eye suggest that the ball pitched on leg and was hitting a fair share of leg-stump. Had NZ had a review , and if they had used it , Ballance would have been OUT 8.3 Southee to Ballance , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Ballance prods across and defends it 8.2 Southee to J Root , 1 run , a direct hit would have been close ! Root pushed a length ball in front of cover and set-off. The fielder is quick on the ball , turns around and aims at the bowler 's end , he misses but Root looked to be home 8.1 Southee to J Root , no run , on a good length and on the stumps , Root gets behind the line and defends it towards mid-on 7.6 Boult to J Root , 1 run , Boult angles one onto Root 's pads , flicked away towards long leg for a single 7.5 Boult to J Root , no run , Boult tumbles flat onto the pitch in his followthrough , ended up on all fours , he slipped as he completed his run-up , on a good length and well outside off , left alone 7.4 Boult to Ballance , 1 run , Boult errs in line , ends up offering a length ball on Ballance 's pads , clipped in front of square on the on-side for a single 7.4 Boult to Ballance , wide , Boult loses his line and drifts one well down leg-side , wide called 7.3 Boult to Ballance , no run , Boult drifts one wider and gets it to shape away from off , left alone 7.2 Boult to Ballance , no run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , Ballance covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 7.1 Boult to Ballance , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Ballance presses across and defends it back towards the bowler 6.6 Southee to J Root , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from off , Root covers the line and drives it towards mid-off 6.5 Southee to J Root , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , Root went for the expansive cut and missed , the ball bounces over the top of the angled bat 6.4 Southee to J Root , no run , tad fuller and angling into Root , he shuffles across and defends it towards mid-on Four slips in place for Root 6.3 Southee to J Root , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , left alone Joe Root , right handed bat , comes to the crease 6.2 Southee to Moeen Ali , out Bowled ! ! That 's a cracker of a yorker , Moeen was set-up superbly there ! He was looking for a short ball , this was fired full and on the off-stump line , Moeen was rooted to his crease , jams his bat down in a hurry , but it 's too late. The ball sneaks through and rattles the base of off-stump. England have lost both the openers now. Moeen Ali b Southee 20 ( 15 ) [ 4s-4 ] Southee to Moeen Ali , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 6.1 Southee to Moeen Ali , no run , on a length and just outside off , Moeen presses across and defends it with a straight bat 6.1 Southee to Moeen Ali , wide , that 's a good bumper from Southee , short and well directed , went sailing over Moeen 's head , wide called 5.6 Boult to Ballance , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Ballance stays besides the line and defends it towards backward point 5.5 Boult to Ballance , 2 runs , too straight from Boult , ends up drifting onto Ballance 's pads , worked past mid-wicket for a couple of runs 5.4 Boult to Ballance , no run , tad fuller and on off , Ballance prods across and defends it 5.3 Boult to Moeen Ali , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Moeen stands tall and steers it square on the off-side for a single 5.2 Boult to Ballance , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , worked in front of point for a single 5.1 Boult to Ballance , no run , tad fuller and shaping back into Ballance , he was shuffling across on the clip and missed , gets struck just above the knee-roll , the impact was in front of leg-stump and the ball would go on to just clip the top of leg Loud shout for LBW. Will New Zealand review ? Yes , they want one. Ronchi was adamant on going for the third umpire. Is the height an issue ? Hits Ballance just above the knee-roll. He was shuffling across there , that tempted NZ into the review. The impact is on the leg-stump line and its umpire 's call on hitting the stumps. NOT OUT will stay. NZ lose their review 4.6 Southee to Moeen Ali , no run , on a good length and well outside off , Moeen pushes it towards cover-point , 13 runs and a wicket from the over 4.5 Southee to Moeen Ali , FOUR , that 's a hat-trick of boundaries for Moeen , width on offer from Southee , Moeen throws his bat at that , gets a thick edge that flies over 1st slip and races away to the fence. Taylor was the man at slip . Southee changes to round the wicket 4.4 Southee to Moeen Ali , FOUR , another cracking shot , this was full and wide from Southee , Moeen leans forward and drives it on the up , it was in the air but goes well over the in-field , back to back boundaries for Moeen 4.3 Southee to Moeen Ali , FOUR , glorious from Moeen , this was pitched up and nipped back in slightly , Moeen made the adjustment for the swing , presents the full face of the bat and punches it back past the bowler for a boundary 4.2 Southee to Ballance , 1 run , lovely shape from Southee , full and snaking back in late , Ballance was pushing forward , gets an inside edge and gets a single behind square Gary Ballance , left handed bat , comes to the crease 4.1 Southee to Bell , out Bowled ! ! Cleaned up ! Bell was completely beaten for pace here. This was full and shaping away slightly , Bell was rooted to his crease as he went for the ambitious drive , the ball tailed away just fractionally , beat Bell 's outside edge and crashed into the off-stump. England have lost their first wicket , another excellent start for McCullum and his men. Bell b Southee 8 ( 17 ) [ 4s-1 ] Southee to Bell , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 3.6 Boult to Bell , 1 run , width on offer from Boult , Bell stands tall and cracks it square behind point on the off-side for a single 3.5 Boult to Moeen Ali , 1 run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from well outside off , Moeen leans into the drive and gets it square behind point for a single 3.4 Boult to Bell , 1 run , too straight from Boult , drifts onto Bell 's pads , whipped away behind square on the on-side for a single 3.3 Boult to Bell , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Bell plays with an open face and guides it to the left of point , the fielder gets across to his left and saves a single 3.2 Boult to Bell , no run , good comeback from Boult , fuller and a hint of nip back into Bell , punched towards mid-off 3.1 Boult to Bell , FOUR , classy from Bell , smidgen of width on offer from Boult , Bell stays leg-side , opens up the arc between cover and point and cuts it through the gap , no need to run for those 2.6 Southee to Moeen Ali , no run , Southee shortens his length around off , Moeen was looking to nudge it towards the on-side and gets an inside edge onto his thigh pad 2.5 Southee to Moeen Ali , FOUR , that 's the first boundary for England , Moeen has had issues with the short ball of late , but this was banged half-way down the track and without any venom , he swivels across , rolls his wrists and pulls it past square leg for a boundary 2.4 Southee to Moeen Ali , no run , tad fuller and a hint of shape back into Moeen , defended with a straight bat 2.4 Southee to Moeen Ali , wide , the bumper from Southee , but it 's well down leg-side , wide called 2.3 Southee to Bell , 1 run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Bell presents the full face of the bat and drives it back past the bowler , the timing was n't great , but Baz hares behind the ball and keeps them down to a single 2.2 Southee to Bell , no run , fuller length delivery and curling away from off , Bell prods forward on the drive , gets a thick inside edge towards mid-on 2.1 Southee to Moeen Ali , leg byes , 1 run , too straight from Southee , ends up drifting onto Moeen 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away behind square on the on-side for a leg-bye 1.6 Boult to Bell , no run , tad fuller and holding its line around off , Bell presses across and defends it towards the on-side 1.5 Boult to Moeen Ali , 1 run , that 's an excellent stop from BMac at mid-off , this was pitched up and held its line outside off , Moeen leans forward and drives with an open face , McCullum gets across to his right from mid-off , puts in the dive and keeps them down to a single 1.4 Boult to Bell , 1 run , tad fuller and a hint of nip back into Bell , he was pushing forward and gets an inside edge behind square on the on-side for a single 1.3 Boult to Bell , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , Bell watches it go through to the keeper Two slips and a short mid-wicket in place 1.2 Boult to Moeen Ali , 1 run , first run off the bat , back of a length and just outside off , Moeen plays with soft hands and nudges it to the right of cover-point for a single 1.1 Boult to Moeen Ali , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , Moeen prods forward and defends it Four slips for Boult. . Trent Boult , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Southee to Bell , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , not much inward movement though , Bell covers the line and is happy to let that go as well. Just a wide from the first over 0.5 Southee to Bell , no run , Southee is hitting a good line and length here , this was slightly short and in that channel outside off , Bell covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 0.4 Southee to Bell , no run , Southee shortens his length and gets this one to shape away from outside off , left alone 0.3 Southee to Bell , no run , on a good length and in that corridor outside off , Bell prods forward defensively , plays with soft hands and the edge does n't carry through to the slip cordon 0.3 Southee to Bell , wide , first run for England and it comes in the shape of an extra , Southee shortens his length and gets it to nip away , fraction too wide though , called by the umpire 0.2 Southee to Bell , no run , Southee shortens his length outside off and gets it to shape away slightly , Bell covers the line and is happy to let it go 0.1 Southee to Bell , no run , hint of swing for Southee , starts from that channel outside off and shapes away , Bell covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go Bell and Moeen Ali are at the crease. Bell is on strike. Southee will open the attack Three slips in place as Tim Southee steams in.. A full house at the Cake Tin.. this should be a cracker of a contest . The players are out in the middle. McCullum leads New Zealand 's huddle. The batsmen are out in the middle as well . Right , it 's time for the anthems. It 's 'God save the Queen ' - England 's first up and then followed by the anthem of New Zealand . Pitch Report : " It 's obviously a drop-in pitch. This particular one was last used against India and I think they scored 300. It is rock hard and well-grassed. It might provide a bit of pace and bounce. We have two very good pace attacks on show today , but essentially it is a very , very good pitch and we should have a few runs in store for us , " reckons Michael Atherton . Teams : New Zealand ( Playing XI ) : Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Martin Guptill , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Grant Elliott , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( w ) , Daniel Vettori , Adam Milne , Tim Southee , Trent Boult England ( Playing XI ) : Moeen Ali , Ian Bell , Gary Ballance , Joe Root , Eoin Morgan ( c ) , James Taylor , Jos Buttler ( w ) , Chris Woakes , Stuart Broad , Steven Finn , James Anderson England have won the toss and have opted to bat Morgan : " The guys have trained really hard. We obviously underperformed by quite a long way in all three departments , so we will look to improve on that today. We will bat first. The wicket looks good , it might not change much. We are going in with the same team. Hopefully , I can get some time in the middle and some runs under my belt. I 've struggled in the last couple of games to get a score , so hopefully today is the day. " McCullum : " Cricket is obviously important for the country at the moment. When you play good cricket , people want to turn up and watch. It is a loud ground and a packed house is going to be outstanding. The tag ( when asked about his thoughts on New Zealand being tagged as favourites for this contest ) does n't matter once the game gets underway. We would have batted as well. Looks a cracking wicket , hopefully it stays the same throughout the game. If we can do the first part well , then we certainly make the second part a lot easier. We are unchanged for this game. We are a little bit lucky that we have been playing a lot of cricket recently , so the guys are pretty tuned to playing a lot of games in a short space of time. " Folks , we are not too far away from the toss. As said earlier , New Zealand are fielding an unchanged side for this game. Stay tuned for England 's XI . Head-to-head : New Zealand have a slight advantage over England on head-to-head count in ODIs. Overall , they have won 38 matches and lost 33. When it comes to World Cup cricket though , there is not much to choose between these two sides as New Zealand only lead by a slender margin of 4-3. However , it is a concern for England that they have not beaten the Black Caps in their last four World Cup meetings . Weather : It is bright and sunny out there. With a high of 22 degrees , both teams will find the weather pleasant and good for cricket. There are no chances of rain and we should get a full match . England Eoin Morgan and Co. have n't had a great beginning to the tournament. Having bizarrely opted to field on a good batting surface at the MCG , the England bowlers found it hard to stop Aaron Finch , who was instrumental in Australia posting a massive total on the board. In reply , the English batsmen could not handle the pressure of the chase and gave Mitchell Marsh his first 5-wicket haul , before suffering a crushing 111-run defeat. However , there were two positives to take from that game. Steve Finn continued his good form with the ball and took a hat-trick at the fag end of the innings , which also helped him bag a fifer. James Taylor played no-fear cricket and scored 98 aggressive runs , only to be denied a hundred by an umpiring blunder . Although , Eoin Morgan has registered scores of 0 2 0 0 0 in his last 5 innings , he has received strong backing from batting coach Mark Ramprakash. " Look , he 's aware of the fact that he wants more runs and it 's important for the team that he plays his part. But in terms of handling the tournament , the pressures of it , you could n't really ask for a better character to be able to handle that , " said Ramprakash . In fact , Morgan 's counterpart , McCullum , too expects him to come good. " He 's a champion player. He 's one of my better mates from around the world in terms of cricket. He 's going through a bit of a tough time at the moment , but tough times do n't last , tough blokes do. So hopefully at some point he 'll come out of it. Hopefully tomorrow we 're able to keep him quiet. But I am very confident at some point he 'll bounce out of it because he 's a quality player and a tough bloke too , " said McCullum . New Zealand The Black Caps began their campaign on a great note on Valentine 's Day. After being asked to bat first by Sri Lanka , fine fifties from Brendon McCullum , Kane Williamson and Corey Anderson helped the World Cup co-hosts post a very good total of 331 , which was later easily defended by the bowlers. When they bowled Scotland out for a mere 142 in their second match , everyone thought New Zealand would cruise to victory , but with Scotland picking 7 wickets , a bit of vulnerability was exposed in their batting . " It got a little scarier than we wanted , I guess. When I 'm rushing around the changing room trying to check the pairs on it , it means we might be in a little bit of trouble. But , yeah , in the end we got the points and we got the job done , so , yeah , pretty satisfying , " said Trent Boult , who was named the Man of the Match. However , Boult was quick to point out that their performance against Scotland will not affect New Zealand going forward . Meanwhile , speaking ahead of today 's match New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum revealed that his side would play the same team , that took the field in the first two games. The wicket-keeper batsman was also wary of England 's bowling attack and admitted that they will pose a tough challenge. " I think they have a good bowling attack. They have a bit of pace and they get some bounce with ( Stuart ) Broad and ( James ) Anderson. So they 're going to pose some different challenges to what we 've probably faced in the last little while , but it 's a challenge the boys are looking forward to , " said McCullum . When reminded about his side being tagged as one of the title-favourites , the 33-year-old had this to say : " It 's kind of irrelevant , I think , the tag. We 're the favourites , we 're the underdogs , once you get out on the pitch , you start on an even keel. I think we 've been able to handle some of the expectation which has risen recently because of our calmness within the group. " As we build up to this contest , let 's have a close look at the teams and their performances thus far in the 2015 Cricket World Cup . Hello there ! We head to the Cake Tin today for this cracking Group A fixture , featuring the co-hosts , New Zealand , and England. Both sides have a very good bowling attack and there is no doubt that the intensity is going to be pretty high on the field. This is the first time that the Westpac Stadium in Wellington is hosting a World Cup game. Having lost their tournament opener , England are slightly under pressure going into this contest. In fact , the last time these two sides met in a World Cup game in Wellington , in 1992 , New Zealand registered a comfortable 7-wicket win , although the game was played at Basin Reserve. So maybe , New Zealand have that psychological advantage . Preview : New Zealand and England could n't have had a more contrasting start to the World Cup. After suffering a trouncing at the hands of Australia , England now travel to Wellington to face the other co-hosts of the tournament , also incidentally in equally good form. New Zealand , on the other hand , dispatched Sri Lanka rather convincingly in their tournament opener and despite stuttering to a victory against Scotland , they would look to establish their dominance in favourable conditions . Also on view will be two equally impressive bowling attacks squaring off against each other. While James Anderson and co. did n't find their rhythm against Australia , New Zealand 's bowlers have been spot on in both their previous matches and would look to do more of the same against England . Venue : Westpac Stadium , Wellington
