Graphs Things looked murky for the Indians before the start of the World Cup , but they have got running with two huge victories - in matches that were considered very tough. They now have 5 days time before they take on UAE in Perth. The World Cup moves across to Christchurch as England take on Scotland in a must-win game tomorrow. Do join us for all the action. For now , cheers and bye. . Derek Pringle : That has skewed the predictive path of World Cup , India showing they are not busted flush in Aussie conditions after trouncing South Africa . Mark Butcher : Sometimes injuries are a blessing - Mohit has made a massive difference to India 's bowling Michael Vaughan : India are Box Office... Might not Win this World Cup but they will bring plenty to the Party.. # ICCWorldCup2015 Anjum Chopra : At 9 am Indian time there was a doubt where the match could finish up # IndvsSA # WorldCup2015. Do n't think many expected this result so early Aakash Chopra : Mohit and Shami 's contribution might not be remembered after a few weeks but their contributions were crucial to the result. Kudos . Harsha Bhogle : ok , did anyone predict that ? could anyone ? Rajneesh Gupta : With today 's win MS Dhoni has equalled Sourav Ganguly 's tally of 10 wins by 100 + runs - most by an Indian captain in ODIs . Anil Kumble : Great victory for India. Out batted , out bowled and more importantly out fielded the South Africans ! Well played Ind ! Let us have a look at some of the interesting tweets of this match . MS Dhoni : 'Well I think more than just a result , it was how we played , I think it was back-to-back good performances , both by the bowling and the batting unit. I felt that 's one of the main reasons we can say we really enjoyed it. South Africa is a very good side , they are a fantastic side , so I feel you know overall , one more complete performance. It 's difficult to say because you can only speculate how important the toss was. I felt the wicket did change a bit , but I do n't think it was completely different. We were able to swing the ball under the lights , but overall I felt the bowlers bowled well. They bowled in the right areas. Even Jadeja I felt bowled really well , he varied his pace. He was not someone who was bowling quick and fast that he normally does. So , I think that was the reason he was quite successful today. He was backed well by all the other fast bowlers. Then also Ashwin , once he came in to bowl , he was also someone who varied his pace well. I think the couple of run-outs because we have been quite used to the fact of the opposition taking on our fast bowlers , specially when they are fielding in the deep. It is good to see Mohit and Umesh , both of them are quite fast. I wo n't say they are the fastest in the world , but they are quite good. They have got a decent arm and I felt that once the batsmen took them on , that was the real turning point to a lot of extent because both of them , who are the set batsmen , they are important batsmen for South Africa. Well again , yes , I feel what 's happening really well is we are able to execute our plans. I can give field to my fast bowlers , they are not giving too many loose deliveries. What I have seen is there is improvement in each and every game that we are playing. Today , they bowled really tight lines , their batsmen had to play the big shots to get runs. So , it 's very pleasing to see. It is not really our strength , but I think the fast bowlers , the amount of effort they are putting in the nets , it has started to show now.' AB de Villiers : 'Obviously , losing the game is a disappointment. The run-outs cost us dearly tonight , just when we got started with the bat in hand , that 's where we lost the game I think , where we lost our way. It looked like 350 at one stage and we got ourselves back nicely , but those run-outs cost us dearly tonight. I can be hard on my bowlers and say that it was probably a 270-275 kind of wicket , but the way the Indians batted today throughout the day , we restricted them down to 307 , it ended up being a good effort. I thought we could have gotten a lot closer tonight with the bat in hand , but it was n't good enough performance as the batting unit and we will just have to go and regroup , work hard and focus on our next game now. I do n't think it changed a hell of a lot , it does n't change the fact that I still thought that it was a good toss to win. It was one of those where you really wanted to bat first I feel in the afternoon and put a bit of pressure on the fielding team. We fielded a lot in heat and at the end of the day , there are no excuses and we should have played better tonight. That 's the end of the story right there. It ended up being a good decision , we lost Vernon throughout the innings and I needed Parnell 's overs today. Had we not done that , then I probably would have bowled again. We just did n't bat well enough as a top 6.' Dhawan : 'It was very important. I will say that of course when a batsman scores a century it 's a great feeling. More than that , it was important that the partnerships should have been going big for my team. That was our plan and that 's what we stick to. We lost an early wicket , AB hit a great run-out. We just wanted to stay on the wicket , we knew their three bowlers were very good , I respected the good balls , loose delivery , I was cashing on that. I was just relaxed and I was n't hurrying. I knew that once I am set , I can bring the run-rate up again. I guess after the 25th over , whenever I was getting loose deliveries , once you are set , you will hit more shots , so that 's what I did , playing on the merit and I knew that I would get the boundaries easily. They ( Kohli and Rahane ) batted beautifully. Virat at the start when we were under pressure and we both gave the stability and a good base. And then Ajinkya came in and Ajinkya started off on a good note. His strike-rate was quite up so I was just relaxing at that moment , I knew I just had to rotate the strike and it went really good. For sure , two wins and especially this tournament , we got one week break after each match , it 's a good thing. We are looking forward to the next game in the next week. Thanks to the crowd , they supported us greatly.' Shikhar Dhawan is the Man of the Match for his 137 It has to be said that MS Dhoni marshalled his resources wonderfully well to cajole a strong showing from his team. By winning the first two matches of the mega-event , India will be high on confidence when they take on UAE in their next match in Perth. On the other hand , South Africa need to show the self-belief to put this defeat behind them when they take on the West Indies in Sydney . Mohit followed it up by taking the crucial wicket of Faf du Plessis. Once du Plessis was dismissed , there was an air of inevitability to the result. To make it even better for India , the spin twins , Ravindra Jadeja and Ravichandran Ashwin , bowled well in tandem. The only batsman , who perhaps could have turned out to be the game-breaker for South Africa was their captain , AB de Villiers. However , he was run out on the back of a superb piece of fielding by Mohit . The Indian bowlers too put up an inspired show. Mohammed Shami bowled with purpose upfront and snared the wicket of opener , Quinton de Kock. In fact , when Shami bowled , the seam was proud and upright , and that helped him to generate swing. Mohit Sharma also gave a good account of himself. He surprised Hashim Amla with a short delivery and snared his wicket . The South African pacers tried to mix it up by bowling cross-seam , but as it was a true wicket , they struggled to get the ball to cut or grip. To make it worse for them , Vernon Philander was troubled by a hamstring problem and could bowl a mere four overs. Only Imran Tahir , with his googly and the quicker one , troubled the batsmen . In fact , after India won the toss and opted to bat , South Africa made a fine start with AB de Villiers effecting a direct-hit to run out Rohit Sharma. However , slowly but steadily , India gained the upper-hand and the South African bowlers struggled to pull the batting side back. Occasionally , by flicking their wrist , Morkel and Steyn got the ball to climb onto the Indian batsmen awkwardly , but credit has to go to Dhawan and Co. for showing the temperament and the technique to come through difficult periods . On the back of a fine all-round performance , India won their second match in a row by beating formidable foes South Africa. This turned out to be India 's first victory over South Africa in the history of the World Cup. Shikhar Dhawan touched fabulous and compelling peaks to compose a brilliant hundred. Ajinkya Rahane too with precise metre of timing bisected the gaps to send the ball scurrying past bemused and motionless fielders and scored 79. Dhawan pulled , cut , drove and even flicked the towering giant , Morne Morkel , over fine-leg for a six to send the capacity crowd into paroxysms of delight. Rahane matched him stroke-for-stroke. In particular , Rahane hoisting Dale Steyn over mid-off for a six in the 46th over of the innings , has to be one of the highlights of the day. Virat Kohli also played a fine hand by scoring 46 . A convincing win for India. This is their first ever victory over South Africa in WC competitions , coming in their fourth attempt. They now top Pool B with 4 points and have finished with their two big matches . 40.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Tahir , out Lbw ! ! Jadeja has the final say in this match. This was the slider , went through with the arm , Tahir was pushing forward in defence , the ball sneaks past the inside edge and crashes onto the pads. The impact was around off and the ball was going on to hit a fair share of middle stump. As plumb as it gets , umpire Dar 's finger went up straightaway. Tahir lbw b Ravindra Jadeja 8 ( 10 ) [ 4s-1 ] Ravindra Jadeja to Tahir , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! India WIN 40.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Parnell , 1 run , flatter and well outside off , mistimed cut towards cover where Rohit dives over the ball and allows a single 40.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Parnell , wide , Jadeja fires one well down leg-side , wide called Ravindra Jadeja [ 8.0-0-35-0 ] is back into the attack 39.6 Ashwin to Tahir , FOUR , Ashwin gives this one plenty of air , lures Tahir into the drive , he goes hard on the shot , gets a thick edge that races away past the lone slip. A boundary to end the batting PP. SA scored 19/2 during the period 39.5 Ashwin to Tahir , no run , flighted and on the stumps , Tahir gets his bat in front of the pads and blocks 39.4 Ashwin to Tahir , no run , Ashwin drifts one outside off , Tahir lunges forward and pushes it back towards the bowler 39.3 Ashwin to Tahir , no run , slower and just outside off , Tahir gets well forward and blocks 39.2 Ashwin to Parnell , 1 run , slower and just outside off , chipped past extra cover for a single 39.1 Ashwin to Parnell , no run , the reverse sweep from Parnell , does n't get it past backward point 38.6 Shami to Tahir , no run , the bumper from Shami , Tahir ducks under it and lets it go 38.5 Shami to Tahir , no run , on a good length and just outside off , pushed towards cover-point Shami changes to round the wicket 38.4 Shami to Parnell , 1 run , another short ball from Shami , another pull from Parnell , this time it 's not struck well , bounces well in front of deep mid-wicket for a single 38.3 Shami to Parnell , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Parnell was looking to ride with the bounce and dab it towards third man , misses it 38.2 Shami to Parnell , FOUR , Parnell went plenty with the ball and he wants some back on his own ! This was short and just outside off , Parnell swivels across , rolls his wrists and pulls it in front of square on the on-side for a boundary 38.1 Shami to Tahir , 3 runs , that 's nicely played by Tahir , leans forward to a full ball and works it square past cover , has enough to come back for the third run 37.6 Ashwin to Parnell , no run , he follows it up with the arm-ball , this one went with the angle , Parnell pushed forward and missed , the ball lobbed off his pads , the impact was on leg-stump and would have gone down leg 37.5 Ashwin to Parnell , no run , the slider from Ashwin , goes straight through after pitching , Parnell makes room and cuts it straight to the fielder at point 37.4 Ashwin to Tahir , 1 run , full toss from Ashwin , driven down towards long-off for a single 37.3 Ashwin to Tahir , no run , the carrom ball from Ashwin ! Spits away after pitching , pushed towards backward point Imran Tahir , right handed bat , comes to the crease 37.2 Ashwin to M Morkel , out Bowled ! ! Another one falls ! This was tossed up invitingly by Ashwin , Morkel could n't resist going for the slog sweep , cleared his left leg and attempted a massive heave over cow-corner , misses it completely. The ball sneaks past the bat and hits the top of leg-stump. Third wicket for Ashwin and India are just one wicket away from victory. M Morkel b Ashwin 2 ( 5 ) Ashwin to M Morkel , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 37.1 Ashwin to M Morkel , no run , pushed through and on Morkel 's pads , he looks to flick and takes it on his pads 36.6 Shami to M Morkel , 1 run , full and on Morkel 's pads , clipped in front of square on the on-side for a single 36.5 Shami to Parnell , 1 run , Shami keeps it short and on Parnell 's pads , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a single 36.4 Shami to M Morkel , 1 run , back of a length and on Morkel 's thigh pad , tucked behind square on the on-side for a single 36.3 Shami to M Morkel , no run , the bouncer first up for Morkel , he is taken by surprise as it came near his throat , hops across and manages to fend it away towards the off-side Morne Morkel , left handed bat , comes to the crease 36.2 Shami to Steyn , out Caught by Dhawan ! ! Catching practice for Dhawan at cover-point ! He will do no wrong today. This was banged in short and just outside off , Steyn made room for the cut , got some solid connection but hits it straight to Dhawan. Second wicket for Shami , this is getting over all too soon. India are on the verge of a historic first WC win over South Africa. Steyn c Dhawan b Shami 1 ( 7 ) Shami to Steyn , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 36.1 Shami to Parnell , 1 run , Shami goes for the yorker , ends up offering a full toss on Parnell 's pads , whipped away past square leg for a single Mohammed Shami [ 6.0-1-18-1 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Ashwin to Steyn , no run , the off-break from Ashwin , Steyn gets a long way forward and gets an inside edge onto the pads 35.5 Ashwin to Steyn , no run , Ashwin drifts one outside off , Steyn stays besides the line and blocks 35.4 Ashwin to Parnell , 1 run , this one is given more air , eased towards mid-on for a single 35.3 Ashwin to Parnell , no run , pushed through flatter and on the off-stump line , Parnell is cramped for room , gets a bottom edge towards the off-side 35.2 Ashwin to Parnell , no run , slower and around off , Parnell leans forward and takes it on his body 35.1 Ashwin to Parnell , no run , slower and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler The batting PP has come into effect 34.6 Raina to Steyn , no run , flighted and on off , patted back towards the bowler 34.5 Raina to Parnell , 1 run , slower and on the stumps , eased down towards long-on for a run 34.4 Raina to Steyn , 1 run , pushed through by Raina , worked in front of square on the on-side for a single 34.3 Raina to Steyn , no run , full and on off , driven back towards the bowler 34.2 Raina to Steyn , no run , Raina drifts one on off , driven back towards the bowler 34.1 Raina to Parnell , 1 run , tossed up and on the stumps , worked past square leg for a single Suresh Raina , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Dale Steyn , right handed bat , comes to the crease 33.6 Ashwin to Philander , out Lbw ! ! It 's all unravelling for South Africa. This was tossed up just outside off and spins back into Philander , the off-break from Ashwin. He was shuffling across on the defensive push , misses and is rapped on the pads. The impact was just around off and the ball was going on to clip the top of middle stump. Umpire 's call on both counts , the original decision was OUT and it stays with the umpire. South Africa have lost their seventh wicket. Philander lbw b Ashwin 0 ( 2 ) Ashwin to Philander , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Philander has been given out LBW. He wants a review. No problems with the no-ball. Philander was caught in his crease , looks like it clipped the front pad first , no bat , the Snicko confirms it. The impact looks to be around the knee-roll and in front of off. Umpire 's call , the decision will stay. Philander is OUT 33.5 Ashwin to Philander , no run , tossed up and on off , Philander gets across and blocks Vernon Philander , right handed bat , comes to the crease 33.4 Ashwin to D Miller , out D Miller Run Out ! ! 1 run completed. This should be it for South Africa. Ashwin drifts one on the middle stump line , Miller went down low on his knees and swept it behind square on the on-side. He was quick on the first run , and just like AB , decided to take on the arm of one of India 's fastest bowler. The return from Umesh is good and Dhoni is even quicker as he breaks the stumps by flicking the ball on. Miller put in the dive , but is just short with the bat in the air , before the line. D Miller run out ( U Yadav/Dhoni ) 22 ( 23 ) [ 4s-2 ] Ashwin to D Miller , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Another appeal for a run-out. Miller is the man in question. He 's struggling. He 's OUT 33.3 Ashwin to Parnell , 1 run , flighted delivery and on off , pushed in front of mid-on for a single 33.2 Ashwin to Parnell , no run , tossed up and on off , nudged towards the on-side 33.1 Ashwin to Parnell , no run , tossed up and going with the angle , Parnell pushed down the wrong line and misses , was n't straightening enough , Hawk-Eye shows it 's just clipping the leg-stump Loud shout for LBW. Will India review ? NO Drinks are on the field now. It 's India all the way. They have struck thrice in this mini-session. RSA 's hopes now rests on Miller , but he needs some support from the other end 32.6 Shami to Parnell , 1 run , another bumper from Shami , Parnell swivels across , rolls his wrists and pulls it towards deep mid-wicket for a single 32.5 Shami to Parnell , no run , Shami shortens his length and gets this one to angle across Parnell , he was in no position as he went for the pull and missed 32.4 Shami to Parnell , no run , Shami shortens his length on off , Parnell prods across and defends it back towards the bowler 32.3 Shami to Parnell , no run , the bumper from Shami , Parnell ducks underneath it and lets it go 32.2 Shami to Parnell , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Parnell slashes it square on the off-side. There 's confusion in the running , Parnell was always coming back for the second run , Miller responded very late. The throw went to Dhoni , he removes his gloves and fires it towards the bowler 's end , Shami whipped the bails off , but Miller 's dive saved him Appeal for a run-out call. The Indians are n't all that excited. Looks like Miller is in and replays confirm that . 32.1 Shami to Parnell , no run , back of a length and on the stumps , Parnell hops across and defends it towards mid-wicket Mohammed Shami [ 5.0-1-15-1 ] is back into the attack 31.6 Ashwin to Parnell , 1 run , Ashwin drifts one onto Parnell 's pads , nudged in front of square on the on-side for a single 31.5 Ashwin to Parnell , no run , fraction shorter and just outside off , Parnell backs away and cuts it straight to the fielder at point 31.4 Ashwin to Parnell , no run , slower and just outside off , defended with an angled bat towards point Wayne Parnell , left handed bat , comes to the crease 31.3 Ashwin to Duminy , out Caught by Raina ! ! Is this the end for RSA ? The extra bounce of Ashwin has done in Duminy completely ! This was tossed up and held its line outside off , Duminy was looking to play the reverse sweep , got into an awkward position while doing so , fails to account for the bounce. The ball lobs off the gloves and it 's a dolly for Raina at 1st slip. Umpire Kettleborough lifts his finger , Duminy walks off a dejected man. South Africa have lost half their side. Duminy c Raina b Ashwin 6 ( 15 ) Ashwin to Duminy , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 31.2 Ashwin to Duminy , no run , flighted and just outside off , defended towards the off-side 31.1 Ashwin to Duminy , no run , what happened there ! This one bounced back into Duminy , he was prodding forward , the ball hits the flap of the pads and rolls to the left of slip , looked like it grazes Dhoni 's helmet on the way 30.6 Mohit Sharma to Duminy , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Duminy runs it to the left of first slip. Raina moves across , dives and stops the ball. He shies at the striker 's end , there 's no one backing up , so Mohit has to run across , dive and prevent extra runs 30.5 Mohit Sharma to Duminy , 2 runs , that 's nicely played by Duminy , back of a length and just outside off , Duminy waits on it , opens the face of the bat and dabs it fine towards third man. Shami gets across , bends down and stops the ball , keeps the batsmen down to a couple 30.4 Mohit Sharma to Duminy , no run , extra bounce for Mohit , that one reared from a length , Duminy did well to drop his bottom hand , the ball rolls away towards the on-side , they think about a single but decide against it 30.3 Mohit Sharma to Duminy , no run , on a length and around off , Duminy gets behind the line and defends it towards mid-off 30.2 Mohit Sharma to D Miller , 1 run , tad fuller and shaping away from outside off , driven square past cover for a single 30.1 Mohit Sharma to Duminy , 1 run , on a length and around off , worked away in front of square on the on-side for a single Unfortunately from South Africa 's perspective , just when du Plessis and AB de Villiers were playing well , de Villiers was run out on the back of a sharp piece of fielding by Mohit Sharma. Now , that wicket could turn out to be a decisive blow. Du Plessis , then reached his fifty in 65 deliveries , but just in the nick of time , Mohit took his wicket to derail the chase. South Africa 's hopes of winning the game now rest on the shoulders of David Miller and JP Duminy. From India 's point of view , Ravindra Jadeja , the slow left-arm orthodox , has kept the pressure on the batsmen by bowling an economical spell . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the last 10 overs : Faf du Plessis showed his ability to use the crease by lofting Ravichandran Ashwin over the infield for a boundary in the 22nd over of the innings. In fact , ever since du Plessis succeeded for Lancashire in List A games in 2008 , he has been known for using the depth of the crease while facing up to the spinners . 29.6 Ashwin to D Miller , no run , a shout for lbw as Miller shuffles across to this delivery on middle and leg , he was looking to work it through the on-side , but ca n't connect and wears it on his pad , umpire did n't think it was out , but it was n't a bad shout either 29.5 Ashwin to Duminy , 1 run , floated up on off , Duminy pushes it towards cover point off the front foot , there was a misfield and Duminy was looking for the second , but Miller sends him back 29.4 Ashwin to D Miller , 1 run , flatter and around off , Miller punches it towards long-off and gets off strike 29.3 Ashwin to Duminy , 1 run , drifts this one onto middle and leg , Duminy pushes it towards square leg off the inside half of the bat , the batsmen pinch a run Comes round the wicket 29.2 Ashwin to D Miller , 1 run , pushed through on off , Miller drops it in front of cover point and the batsmen take a single 29.1 Ashwin to D Miller , FOUR , good shot from Miller as he sweeps this tossed up delivery on middle to the fine leg fence , the ball races away to the fence 28.6 Mohit Sharma to Duminy , no run , fuller and on middle stump line , Duminy bunts it towards mid-on 28.5 Mohit Sharma to Duminy , no run , on a good length and on off , Duminy pushes it back to the bowler , who bends down to field in his followthrough 28.5 Mohit Sharma to Duminy , wide , bowls a bumper this time around , Duminy ducks and the umpire calls it a wide for height 28.4 Mohit Sharma to Duminy , no run , just short of a good length and angled across off , Duminy gets behind the line and defends it into the off-side 28.3 Mohit Sharma to Duminy , no run , touch fuller and just outside off , Duminy stays back and defends it towards short cover 28.2 Mohit Sharma to Duminy , no run , angling away outside off , Duminy lifts his bat and leaves it for the keeper Jean-Paul Duminy , left handed bat , comes to the crease Mohit pulls out of his run-up. He will have to bowl that one again . 28.1 Mohit Sharma to du Plessis , out Caught by Dhawan ! ! Mohit Sharma comes into the attack and du Plessis perishes first ball. It was a back of a length delivery from Mohit , du Plessis gave the charge and was looking to flat-bat it over mid-off , who was inside the circle. He ends up getting it high on the bat and gives a very simple catch to Dhawan at mid-off. du Plessis has thrown it away here and Dhawan celebrated with Kohli by jumping and sharing high-fives. It 's a big wicket and the Indians are delighted. du Plessis c Dhawan b Mohit Sharma 55 ( 71 ) [ 4s-5 ] Mohit Sharma to du Plessis , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Mohit Sharma [ 5.0-0-25-1 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Ashwin to D Miller , no run , darted on middle and leg once again , Miller works it into the on-side 27.5 Ashwin to D Miller , no run , flatter on middle , Miller punches it towards the mid-on region , where Dhawan from mid-wicket runs to his right , puts in the dive and stops the ball , good fielding there 27.4 Ashwin to du Plessis , 1 run , pushed through on the stumps , du Plessis bunts it down to long-on and gets to the other end 27.3 Ashwin to du Plessis , no run , touch quicker and turning in from outside off , du Plessis was looking to work it through the on-side , but fails to connect , he wears it on his pad 27.2 Ashwin to D Miller , 1 run , slowish outside off , Miller pushes it to the left of point and the batsmen take a single 27.1 Ashwin to D Miller , no run , gives this one more air around off , Miller drives it towards point off the front foot 26.6 Ravindra Jadeja to D Miller , 1 run , on middle and leg , Miller turns it past square leg and he will keep the strike 26.5 Ravindra Jadeja to du Plessis , 1 run , gently drives this flighted delivery on the stumps back to the bowler , Jadeja dives to his right and tries to stop the ball , but the ball rolls away towards the mid-off region and the batsmen take a single easily 26.4 Ravindra Jadeja to du Plessis , 2 runs , floated outside off , du Plessis drives it wide of long-off and the batsmen run for a brace 26.3 Ravindra Jadeja to D Miller , 1 run , flatter on the stumps , Miller punches it down to long-on for a single 26.2 Ravindra Jadeja to D Miller , FOUR , goes down on one knee and sweeps it in the air towards the deep mid-wicket fence , the fielder dives to his left , but could n't stop the ball from reaching the fence 26.1 Ravindra Jadeja to du Plessis , 1 run , eases this one down to long-off for a single 25.6 Ashwin to du Plessis , 1 run , clips this one to deep square leg to get to his 13th ODI fifty , good innings from Faf 25.5 Ashwin to D Miller , 3 runs , pushed through around off , Miller goes down on one knee and sweeps it towards deep mid-wicket , where Umesh Yadav manages to pull the ball back in time to save a run for his team 25.4 Ashwin to du Plessis , 1 run , flighted delivery on the stumps , du Plessis tucks it away through square leg for a single 25.3 Ashwin to du Plessis , no run , did it get the inside edge there ? The umpire does n't think so. Ashwin gives this one more air and gets it to turn in from outside off , du Plessis was pushing at it , but the ball beats the inside edge and lobs up off the pad , Dhoni runs to his left and takes it , appeals , but the umpire says no 25.2 Ashwin to D Miller , 1 run , tossed up around off , Miller drives it to sweeper cover for a single 25.1 Ashwin to D Miller , no run , floated up on the stumps , pushed into the off-side AB de Villiers usually puts in the dive if he feels that he will be short of his ground , but this time he did n't do it. Will that cost South Africa the game ? 24.6 Ravindra Jadeja to D Miller , 1 run , floated up on off stump line , Miller works it past mid-wicket and he will keep the strike 24.5 Ravindra Jadeja to D Miller , no run , steps out of the crease and turns this flighted delivery outside off towards mid-wicket 24.4 Ravindra Jadeja to D Miller , no run , pushed through on leg , Miller flicks it towards mid-wicket after going across just a touch 24.3 Ravindra Jadeja to du Plessis , 1 run , gives the charge this time and eases this delivery on middle and leg to long-on 24.2 Ravindra Jadeja to du Plessis , no run , touch quicker and on the stumps , du Plessis gently drives it towards cover 24.1 Ravindra Jadeja to du Plessis , no run , pushes this flighted delivery around off to mid-on 23.6 Ashwin to du Plessis , 1 run , pushed through on leg , du Plessis glances it to short fine and sets off , even though there was a direct hit at the striker 's end , the batsmen take a single easily 23.5 Ashwin to D Miller , 1 run , quicker one on the stumps , Miller pushes it towards mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat , the batsmen take a single 23.4 Ashwin to du Plessis , 1 run , on the pads once again , du Plessis clips it past square leg and gets to the other end 23.3 Ashwin to D Miller , 1 run , on the pads this time around , Miller goes down on one knee and sweeps it to deep square leg 23.2 Ashwin to D Miller , no run , drifting on middle and leg , Miller works it towards mid-wicket 23.1 Ashwin to du Plessis , 1 run , pushed through from Ashwin , du Plessis pushes it down to long-on for a single 22.6 Ravindra Jadeja to D Miller , no run , steps out and looks to pushes it back to the bowler , who threatens to throw it back and Miller has to rush back David Miller , left handed bat , comes to the crease 22.5 Ravindra Jadeja to de Villiers , out de Villiers Run Out ! ! 1 run completed. It was a flighted delivery outside off , de Villiers drives it off the front foot and gets it to the left of sweeper cover , who was quick to run across and de Villiers decided to come back for the second. Mohit quickly picks it up and fires in the throw at the striker 's end and Dhoni takes the bails off in a flash. de Villiers was just short and the Indians are extremely happy. de Villiers run out ( Mohit Sharma/Dhoni ) 30 ( 38 ) [ 4s-3 ] Ravindra Jadeja to de Villiers , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! The third umpire has been pressed into service for a run-out appeal. It 's out as de Villiers is short and India get this crucial breakthrough . 22.4 Ravindra Jadeja to de Villiers , no run , gives this one more air and on the stumps , de Villiers pushes it back to the bowler off the inside half of the bat 22.3 Ravindra Jadeja to de Villiers , no run , tosses up outside off , de Villier drives it to cover 22.2 Ravindra Jadeja to de Villiers , no run , floated up on off and middle , AB pushes it to cover 22.1 Ravindra Jadeja to de Villiers , no run , flighted delivery on middle and leg , AB pushes it to the right of the bowler , who puts his right foot out and deflects it towards the fielder at mid-wicket Ravindra Jadeja [ 5.0-0-22-0 ] is back into the attack 21.6 Ashwin to du Plessis , FOUR , another one that 's flat and outside off , du Plessis goes deep in the crease and looks to cut hard , gets an outside edge that runs away to the third man fence , 10 runs came off that over from Ashwin 21.5 Ashwin to du Plessis , no run , floated up outside off , du Plessis opens the face of the bat and guides it towards short third man , ca n't get off strike 21.4 Ashwin to du Plessis , FOUR , shortish and outside off , Plessis lifts it over the infield and the ball races away to the fence , the fielder at cover was inside the circle 21.3 Ashwin to du Plessis , no run , touch flatter and outside off , du Plessis knocks it to cover 21.2 Ashwin to du Plessis , no run , goes right across to this slowish delivery outside off , pushes it in front of point and was looking for the single , but de Villiers sent him back because Dhoni was quick to reach the ball 21.1 Ashwin to du Plessis , 2 runs , floated on off and middle , du Plessis works it past square leg and the batsmen come back for the second as well , Mohit was a little too deep and that allowed the batsmen to come back First time Ashwin comes onto bowl , replacing Jadeja , who went for 8 runs in his last over. He will start from over the wicket Ravichandran Ashwin , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 20.6 U Yadav to du Plessis , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off , du Plessis allows the ball to come to him , opens the face of the bat and guides it towards third man , he will keep the strike 20.5 U Yadav to de Villiers , 1 run , touch fuller and slightly wider outside off , AB drives it square of the wicket 20.4 U Yadav to de Villiers , no run , back of a length delivery on middle stump line , AB hops in the crease and defends it into the off-side 20.3 U Yadav to de Villiers , 2 runs , straying on the pads , AB nurdles it fine on the on-side , he comes back for the second and takes on the throw from the fielder in the deep , makes it easily in the end even though Dhoni tries to flick it back onto the stumps 20.2 U Yadav to du Plessis , 1 run , angles this one on leg , du Plessis turns it towards square leg and sets off for a single , Dhawan was quick to run forward , pick the ball and fires in the throw at the non-striker 's end , but du Plessis would have been safe anyway 20.1 U Yadav to du Plessis , no run , back of a length delivery targetting the stumps , du Plessis pushes it towards the point region With the dismissal of Amla , it is up to AB de Villiers to compile a game-changing knock. In fact , after struggling to time the ball , de Villiers captured the hearts of the crowd with a couple of wonderful shots in the 15th over of the game off Mohit 's bowling. His partner at the other end , Faf du Plessis , too is playing well . In recent times , India have been severely criticised for banging it short , but the problem with the bowlers was that they were n't getting it head high and outside the off-stump. It also has to be said that it was a good strategy to try the short delivery as a surprise weapon to Amla , as he is n't known for playing the pull shot . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the last 10 overs : Mohit Sharma followed up Mohammed Shami 's fine spell upfront by sending one of the lynchpins of South Africa 's batting line-up , Hashim Amla , back to the pavilion. Mohit bowled a fine short delivery that was head high and outside the off-stump to induce Amla to play the pull shot and Shami took a fine catch in the deep . 19.6 Ravindra Jadeja to de Villiers , FOUR , goes down on one knee and drags the sweep from outside off to the deep mid-wicket fence , good way to end the over for the South Africans 19.5 Ravindra Jadeja to du Plessis , 1 run , touch flatter from Jadeja , du Plessis makes room and punches it towards sweeper cover 19.4 Ravindra Jadeja to de Villiers , 1 run , drifting on middle and leg , AB works it down to long-on after coming down the track and gets to the other end 19.3 Ravindra Jadeja to de Villiers , no run , flighted delivery from Jadeja , de Villiers backs away and pushes it back to the bowler 19.2 Ravindra Jadeja to du Plessis , 1 run , gives the charge , but was n't upto the pitch of the ball , he pushes it towards cover-point and the batsmen take a quick single 19.1 Ravindra Jadeja to de Villiers , 1 run , gives this one more air outside off , AB eases it down to long-off 18.6 U Yadav to du Plessis , FOUR , very fine , another one that 's banged in short and du Plessis gives the charge and has a swat at it , the ball takes the top-edge and goes over the keeper 's head , another boundary for du Plessis 18.5 U Yadav to du Plessis , no run , bowls this one in the channel just outside off , du Plessis shuffles across and clips it to square leg 18.4 U Yadav to de Villiers , 1 run , allows this back of a length delivery to come towards him , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and runs it down to third man , easy single available there 18.3 U Yadav to de Villiers , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , de Villiers punches it to cover off the back foot 18.2 U Yadav to de Villiers , no run , short of length delivery around off , AB defends off the back foot , he was looking for the single as the ball rolled away to his right , but the bowler was quickly onto the ball 18.1 U Yadav to de Villiers , no run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , AB tucks it away to mid-wicket 17.6 Ravindra Jadeja to de Villiers , 1 run , floated up outside off , AB punches it to sweeper cover off the back foot 17.5 Ravindra Jadeja to du Plessis , 1 run , dances down the track and looks to go big , but gets it off the inside half of the bat and the ball rolls away to deep square leg 17.4 Ravindra Jadeja to du Plessis , no run , drifting on middle stump , du Plessis pushes it to short mid-wicket 17.3 Ravindra Jadeja to du Plessis , 2 runs , dances down the track and drives it wide of long-off , the batsmen come back for the second easily 17.2 Ravindra Jadeja to de Villiers , 1 run , touch slower on off , AB drives it to sweeper cover and the batsmen cross over 17.1 Ravindra Jadeja to de Villiers , no run , floated up on middle stump , AB pushes it back to the bowler 16.6 U Yadav to du Plessis , FOUR , very fine , goes for the pull off a short one , gets a top-edge that goes over Dhoni and crashes into the fence 16.5 U Yadav to du Plessis , no run , short of length delivery outside off , du Plessis shuffles across and looks to work it through the on-side , the ball rolls away into the off-side off the body 16.4 U Yadav to du Plessis , no run , back of a length delivery on off , du Plessis works it towards short mid-wicket 16.3 U Yadav to du Plessis , FOUR , gives the charge and drills this length delivery straight down the ground , he was not in total control , but he will take the boundary 16.2 U Yadav to de Villiers , 1 run , bit straighter again , AB slips it through backward square leg and gets to the other end 16.1 U Yadav to de Villiers , 2 runs , straying on the pads , AB works it behind square and good running ensures that they come back for the second Umesh Yadav [ 3.0-0-13-0 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now. This has been a disciplined bowling effort from the Indians. But AB has taken his time and has just started looking dangerous. The required rate is well above 7 RPO 15.6 Ravindra Jadeja to du Plessis , no run , Jadeja drifts one back into du Plessis with the angle , he looks to drive and gets an inside edge towards mid-wicket 15.5 Ravindra Jadeja to du Plessis , no run , pushed through flatter and quicker , du Plessis was making room for the drive , gets an inside edge onto the pads 15.4 Ravindra Jadeja to de Villiers , 1 run , Jadeja drops one short and well outside off , AB makes room and cuts it square on the off-side for a single 15.3 Ravindra Jadeja to du Plessis , 1 run , flighted and just outside off , du Plessis comes down the track and eases it towards long-on for a single 15.2 Ravindra Jadeja to du Plessis , no run , du Plessis comes down the track , looks to go past cover and gets an inside edge onto the pads 15.1 Ravindra Jadeja to du Plessis , no run , slower and a hint of spin away from off , pushed towards cover 14.6 Mohit Sharma to de Villiers , FOUR , that 's even better ! AB dances down the track , shortens Mohit 's length and drills it through extra cover , no one moved. AB is off and running 14.5 Mohit Sharma to de Villiers , FOUR , you ca n't keep AB down for long ! Mohit bangs one short and on the stumps , AB swivels across , rolls his wrists and pulls it in front of square on the on-side for a boundary 14.4 Mohit Sharma to de Villiers , no run , Mohit keeps it full and just outside off , driven with a straight bat towards mid-off 14.3 Mohit Sharma to de Villiers , no run , full and on AB 's pads , he drives with a straight bat and finds short mid-wicket 14.2 Mohit Sharma to du Plessis , 1 run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , du Plessis shuffles across and clips it through mid-wicket for a single 14.1 Mohit Sharma to du Plessis , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended with soft hands towards backward point 13.6 Ravindra Jadeja to du Plessis , 1 run , Jadeja slows one outside off , bunted down towards long-off for a single , takes du Plessis onto 2000 career ODI runs 13.5 Ravindra Jadeja to du Plessis , no run , another pre-meditated sweep from du Plessis , the line is full and well outside off , the ball sneaks underneath the bat , good glovework from Dhoni , prevents any byes 13.4 Ravindra Jadeja to de Villiers , 1 run , Jadeja drifts one on the middle stump line , eased past the bowler for a single 13.3 Ravindra Jadeja to du Plessis , 1 run , tossed up and on off , punched down towards long-off for a single 13.2 Ravindra Jadeja to du Plessis , no run , slower and just outside off , driven back towards the bowler 13.1 Ravindra Jadeja to du Plessis , no run , appeal for LBW , but du Plessis was struck well outside off , it was a pre-meditated sweep , the impact was outside off and the ball was n't spinning back enough either 12.6 Mohit Sharma to de Villiers , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , AB presents the full face of the bat and punches it straight to mid-on 12.5 Mohit Sharma to de Villiers , no run , that was uppish ! Looked like it did n't come onto the bat , AB was on the back-foot punch , plays at it a bit too early and nearly spoons a simple catch to cover-point 12.4 Mohit Sharma to du Plessis , 1 run , du Plessis shuffles across to a short of a length delivery and nudges it backward of square on the on-side for a single 12.3 Mohit Sharma to de Villiers , 1 run , much better from Mohit , tad fuller and just outside off , AB was flat-footed as he went for the drive , ends up getting an inside edge behind square on the on-side 12.2 Mohit Sharma to de Villiers , no run , Is Mohit looking to bounce out AB ? Another short ball and just outside off , pulled straight to the fielder at short mid-wicket 12.1 Mohit Sharma to de Villiers , no run , short and just outside off , AB shuffles across and plays the bottom handed swipe , does n't get it past the fielder at short mid-wicket 11.6 Ravindra Jadeja to de Villiers , 1 run , Jadeja gives this one more air and goes wider outside off , driven towards deep cover for a single 11.5 Ravindra Jadeja to du Plessis , 1 run , Jadeja drops one shorter and wider outside off , du Plessis cuts it square on the off-side for a single 11.4 Ravindra Jadeja to de Villiers , 1 run , slower and just outside off , eased past cover for an easy single 11.3 Ravindra Jadeja to de Villiers , no run , Jadeja gives this one more air , AB has to reach out for the drive , ends up mistiming the swat towards point 11.2 Ravindra Jadeja to de Villiers , no run , tossed up and wider outside off , AB goes hard on the drive and mistimes it towards cover-point 11.1 Ravindra Jadeja to du Plessis , 1 run , pushed through flatter and quicker , Faf makes room and cuts it to the right of backward point for a single Time for spin. Jadeja is into the attack. . Ravindra Jadeja , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 10.6 Mohit Sharma to de Villiers , no run , tad fuller and angling into AB 's pads , turned towards short mid-wicket 10.5 Mohit Sharma to du Plessis , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , du Plessis plays with an open face and runs it towards third man 10.4 Mohit Sharma to de Villiers , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , AB lets it go past him , brings his bat down at the last moment and runs it down towards third man 10.3 Mohit Sharma to du Plessis , 1 run , too straight from Mohit , ends up drifting onto du Plessis ' pads , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a single AB de Villiers , right handed bat , comes to the crease 10.2 Mohit Sharma to Amla , out Caught by Shami ! ! The short-ball theory has worked wonders ! This was banged in short and just outside off , Amla went for the pull instinctively , does n't get hold of the shot , gets a thick top-edge. The ball goes high and towards long-leg. Shami was the fielder in the deep , he watches it all along and takes the catch going backwards. He then stops , makes sure that he is well within the ropes and joins in the celebrations. Huge wicket for India , Amla was one man who could have anchored RSA home. Amla c Shami b Mohit Sharma 22 ( 28 ) [ 4s-2 ] Mohit Sharma to Amla , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 10.1 Mohit Sharma to du Plessis , 1 run , another short ball from Mohit , du Plessis pulls but does n't get it anywhere near the middle of the bat , it drops well in front of the fielder at deep mid-wicket 10.1 Mohit Sharma to du Plessis , wide , the bumper from Mohit , but it 's a bit too short and too high , called as a wide by the square-leg umpire Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the first 10 overs : Mohammed Shami bowled with unremitting accuracy and was rewarded with the wicket of Quinton de Kock. De Kock looked to tee off for South Africa by attempting to play on the up and through the line , but he was eventually caught by Virat Kohli off Shami 's bowling for just seven. It could have been worse for South Africa , as Hashim Amla escaped from getting run out . In fact , Shami also troubled Amla and Faf du Plessis. When Shami bowled , the seam was proud and upright , and he generated swing. India 's fielding too has been right on the money. For South Africa , it is up to the experienced duo of Amla and du Plessis to steady the innings by stitching a fine partnership . 9.6 Shami to Amla , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Amla throws his hands at that and drives it straight to cover 9.5 Shami to Amla , FOUR , the first real bad ball from Shami , drops this one short and just outside off , not much venom on it , Amla swivels across and pulls it over mid-wicket , the ball bounces away to the ropes 9.4 Shami to Amla , 2 runs , that 's a rare misfield , Kohli is the culprit , this was full and wide from Shami , driven to the left of mid-off where Kohli makes a hash of a simple stop , allows the ball to sneak under his legs and allows a couple of runs 9.4 Shami to Amla , wide , Shami sprays this one full and down leg-side , wide called 9.3 Shami to Amla , no run , the bumper from Shami , Amla ducks underneath it and lets it go 9.2 Shami to Amla , no run , on a length and just outside off , Amla drives it straight towards point 9.1 Shami to du Plessis , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , du Plessis dabs it in front of backward point for a quick single 8.6 Mohit Sharma to Amla , no run , that could have been a run-out , Amla is very very lucky. Brilliance on the field from Rahane at cover , he intercepted the drive , dives full length to his left and stops the ball. Amla had set-off for a quick single , he has to hare back at the striker 's end , the shy from Rahane misses the stumps. Raina has a chance coming across from square leg , he runs forward and under-arms the throw , misses the stumps once again. Amla was short on both occasions. Will the Indians pay for this miss ? 8.5 Mohit Sharma to Amla , no run , on a length and just outside off , Amla stays behind the line and punches it towards cover-point Amla has asked a for a new bat 8.4 Mohit Sharma to Amla , no run , Mohit keeps it full and just outside off , Amla was looking to drive it through cover , the bat turned slightly and he ends up slicing it towards Jadeja at point 8.3 Mohit Sharma to Amla , no run , much better from Mohit , on a good length and just outside off , defended with a straight bat 8.2 Mohit Sharma to Amla , 2 runs , once again tad too straight from Mohit , allows Amla to shuffle aross and clip it in front of square on the on-side for a brace 8.1 Mohit Sharma to Amla , no run , on a length and just outside off , Amla stays back and punches it towards mid-off 7.6 Shami to du Plessis , no run , that beat du Plessis comprehensively ! Late movement under the lights for Shami , du Plessis came down the track , the ball curved away from him at the last moment , he ends up swishing across the line and misses it completely 7.5 Shami to du Plessis , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , du Plessis prods across and defends it 7.4 Shami to Amla , 1 run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , pushed in front of mid-off for a quick single. Kohli is quick on the ball and shies at the bowler 's end , but Amla was too quick 7.3 Shami to Amla , no run , length ball on Amla 's pads , whipped uppishly but well in front of Rahane at square leg 7.2 Shami to Amla , no run , back of a length and on off , Amla shuffles across and turns it towards mid-on 7.1 Shami to du Plessis , 1 run , short of a length and on du Plessis ' pads , tucked past square leg for a single Shami is back. He was being attended to by the Indian team physio. . 6.6 Mohit Sharma to Amla , FOUR , edged and four , unlucky for Mohit , this was pitched up and nipped away very late , Amla was looking to work it towards the on-side , gets a thick outside edge that rolls away all along the carpet and past Dhoni. There was n't any slip for Mohit for Amla , would n't have carried either 6.5 Mohit Sharma to Amla , 2 runs , short of a length and on the off-stump channel , whipped in front of square on the on-side for a couple of runs 6.4 Mohit Sharma to du Plessis , 1 run , Mohit keeps it short and just outside off , du Plessis comes down the track and pulls it towards deep mid-wicket for a single 6.3 Mohit Sharma to du Plessis , no run , Mohit keeps it full and on off even as du Plessis shimmied down the track , defended back towards the bowler. Mohit picks it up and throws it back at the stumps , hits du Plessis on his ankle in the process , tenders an immediate apology Shami is off the field , not sure exactly why , Rayudu is in as a substitute 6.2 Mohit Sharma to du Plessis , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away , du Plessis leans forward and pushes it towards cover 6.1 Mohit Sharma to du Plessis , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , du Plessis prods across and defends it towards point Mohit Sharma , right-arm medium , comes into the attack One slip and a gully in place for Mohit 5.6 Shami to Amla , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Amla watches it all along and presents a defensive blade , the ball rolls away towards point 5.5 Shami to Amla , no run , too straight from Shami , but there 's a man placed for the whip at square leg , Amla rolls his wrists , times his shot well but ca n't get the placement right 5.4 Shami to du Plessis , 1 run , fuller and just outside off , punched to the right of extra cover for a single 5.3 Shami to du Plessis , no run , pitched up and in that channel outside off , du Plessis presses across and defends it with an angled bat 5.2 Shami to du Plessis , no run , on a good length and just outside off , du Plessis presses across and defends it towards the off-side 5.1 Shami to Amla , 1 run , in the air and safe , Shami is hitting the deck hard , this one rears off from a length , Amla was prodding forward in defence , the ball lobs off the gloves and lands behind square on the on-side 4.6 U Yadav to du Plessis , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , du Plessis watches the ball all along and defends it towards cover-point 4.5 U Yadav to Amla , 1 run , full and on the middle stump line , easy pickings for Amla as he nudges it behind square on the on-side for a single 4.4 U Yadav to du Plessis , 1 run , tad fuller and just outside off , du Plessis plays with an open face and guides it behind square on the off-side for a single 4.3 U Yadav to du Plessis , no run , on a length and around the off-stump line , du Plessis prods across and defends it with an angled bat towards mid-on 4.2 U Yadav to du Plessis , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , du Plessis covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 4.1 U Yadav to Amla , 3 runs , nicely played by Amla , tad too straight from Yadav , ends up swinging into Amla 's pads , clipped away behind square on the on-side. Shami gets across from long-leg , gets a boot and saves a run for his team 3.6 Shami to du Plessis , no run , a wicket-maiden from Shami , fuller length delivery and on du Plessis 's pads , he shuffles across and flicks it towards mid-on 3.5 Shami to du Plessis , no run , short of a length and shaping away from outside off , du Plessis stays behind the line and cracks it towards point 3.4 Shami to du Plessis , no run , fuller length delivery and a hint of nip away from outside off , left alone Faf du Plessis , right handed bat , comes to the crease 3.3 Shami to de Kock , out Caught by Kohli ! ! de Kock never looked settled and he falls now ! This was pitched up and pretty wide outside off , goes away with the angle. de Kock was rooted to his crease as he aimed a flashy drive , does n't get anywhere near the middle of the bat , ends up spooning it in the air and straight to mid-off. Kohli bends forward and gleefully accepts the catch. First failure for de Kock against India , in three previous knocks , he had made three hundreds. de Kock c Kohli b Shami 7 ( 15 ) [ 4s-1 ] Shami to de Kock , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 3.2 Shami to de Kock , no run , tad fuller and on off , de Kock presses across and defends it towards the off-side 3.1 Shami to de Kock , no run , on a good length and just outside off , de Kock prods across and blocks 2.6 U Yadav to Amla , no run , another quick bumper from Yadav , he is getting some pace from the deck , Amla was down on his haunches as he made a late call to pull , misses it by a margin 2.5 U Yadav to de Kock , leg byes , 1 run , that was quick from Yadav , clocked 144 kmph on the meter , de Kock was early on the pull , misses and is struck on the thigh pad , the ball rolls away towards third man 2.4 U Yadav to de Kock , 2 runs , nicely played by de Kock , overpitched and well outside off from Yadav , de Kock leans forward and punches it square past cover. Rohit gives chase and keeps them down to a brace 2.3 U Yadav to de Kock , no run , Yadav goes full and just outside off , de Kock gets forward and drives it towards mid-off 2.2 U Yadav to de Kock , no run , fuller and just outside off , de Kock stays behind the line and defends it towards cover 2.1 U Yadav to de Kock , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , de Kock leans forward and drives it to the right of cover-point where Rohit makes a smart stop 1.6 Shami to de Kock , 1 run , back of a length and in that corridor outside off , de Kock pushes away from his body , gets a thick inside edge behind square , just 3 runs from Shami 's first over 1.5 Shami to de Kock , no run , tad fuller and shaping away from off , de Kock gets behind the line and blocks it solidly 1.4 Shami to Amla , 1 run , back of a length and in that channel outside off , Amla punches and gets a thick edge that evades the fielder at gully , just a single to third man 1.3 Shami to Amla , no run , Shami shortens his length and gets this one to shape away , mistimed cut towards cover 1.3 Shami to Amla , wide , Shami bangs one short and just outside off , the ball gains height as it passes the batsman. Dhoni has to leap and gets a hand onto it , called as a wide 1.2 Shami to Amla , no run , fraction fuller and on the stumps , Amla shuffles across and whips it straight to the fielder at square leg 1.1 Shami to Amla , no run , fuller length delivery and a hint of shape away from off , Amla gets a bottom edge on the drive , the ball rolls away towards cover-point A slip and a gully in place for Shami Mohammed Shami , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 U Yadav to de Kock , no run , Yadav keeps it full and well outside off , de Kock drives without much foot movement , ends up pushing it towards cover , a scratchy start from the RSA keeper 0.5 U Yadav to de Kock , no run , tad fuller and in that channel outside off , de Kock gets half-a-stride forward and pushes it towards mid-off 0.4 U Yadav to de Kock , no run , Yadav shortens his length outside off , de Kock gets behind the line and defends it towards the off-side 0.4 U Yadav to de Kock , wide , Yadav keeps it short and sprays this one wide outside off , de Kock went chasing after that and missed , wide called 0.3 U Yadav to de Kock , no run , short of a length and just outside off , de Kock goes hard on the cut and gets a bottom-edge towards the off-side 0.2 U Yadav to de Kock , FOUR , top-edge and four , this was banged in short and angled across de Kock , he was looking to pull , gets a fat top-edge , the ball goes over the keeper and bounces away to the ropes , Dhawan gives the chase but in vain 0.1 U Yadav to Amla , 1 run , Amla is off the mark straightaway , tad fuller and on Amla 's pads , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single Amla and de Kock are at the crease. Amla is on strike. U Yadav will open the attack Umesh will open the bowling. . Welcome back.. India have posted 300 or more for the second successive time. The bowlers had it easy against Pakistan. But South Africa is a different opposition altogether. . Jinks : " I really enjoyed batting in the middle. I knew I was batting well , I got a few fifties in the practice games so I just had to continue my momentum. I just took my time initially and later on capitalised. It was important to carry that momentum because Virat and Shikhar was batting really well. I thought when I went in , I had to carry that momentum forward. The wicket was really good and Shikhar was batting really well. I had the confidence in my mind and I just took my chances. I think it 's a pretty decent total , big outfields here , I 'm sure we will bowl well. First 10 overs will be very crucial for us. " It is a true wicket and South Africa still should fancy their chances of chasing down the target. For India , it is up to the bowlers to step up to fashion a victory. It would be interesting to see whether the seamers will get a few deliveries to skid off the surface under lights by bowling cross-seam . On a flat wicket , barring Imran Tahir , none of the South African bowlers were able to stem the run flow. To make it worse for the Proteas , Vernon Philander was troubled by a hamstring problem and could only bowl four overs . Earlier , after India won the toss and elected to bat , the South African pacers started on a good note. Steyn got a good shape away from Rohit Sharma. AB de Villiers , then effected a brilliant direct-hit to run out Rohit. Steyn and Morkel also flicked their wrist to get a few deliveries to climb awkwardly on Dhawan. But Virat Kohli played with composure and Dhawan opened up his shoulders to hit a flurry of boundaries , as India slowly but steadily picked themselves up and turned the screws on South Africa 's bowling. Hashim Amla dropping a catch at backward point to give Dhawan a reprieve certainly did n't help their cause . In the 39th over of the innings , he lofted Morkel down the ground for a boundary before slapping him through the cover-region for yet another four. To make it even better , he hoisted Dale Steyn over mid-off for a six in the 46th over. Rahane has also been known for playing horizontal-bat shots and with the South African bowlers testing the middle of the pitch , he used that stroke to collect runs . Ajinkya Rahane , who too essayed a stirring knock , matched Dhawan stroke-for-stroke by playing an innings full of poise and balance. He took a heavy toll off JP Duminy 's bowling before smashing the rest of South Africa 's attack to shreds . On the back of Shikhar Dhawan 's majestic innings of 137 , India posted a massive total. However , South Africa took a slew of wickets in the end overs to gain a bit of momentum. Dhawan played with a dash of bravado to flay the famed South African pace attack to all corners of the ground. When South Africa bowled short , he used the pull shot to great effect. He also showcased good footwork by getting his front foot more to the pitch of the ball to essay cover-drives with a royal flourish. In fact , the way he shuffled across to flick a delivery from Morne Morkel over fine-leg for a six gave an indication that he had no time for the reputation of the bowler . 49.6 Steyn to Shami , no run , three dots in a row to end ! Length outside off , Shami swings and misses. Should have gone with a straight bat , instead of across the line , de Kock taunts Shami to run. Has a smile and threatens to under-arm the throw back onto the stumps. So India on 307 49.5 Steyn to Shami , no run , excellent bowling. Steyn is bowling wide of off , it makes Shami 's job difficult , full and wide , Shami reaches out , but ca n't lay bat on ball 49.4 Steyn to Shami , no run , Shami made too much room and missed the big hit over the off-side , Steyn went full and wide outside off 49.3 Steyn to Shami , FOUR , Shami swings and connects. Steyn missed the yorker , length delivery angling into middle and leg , Shami gets it over backward square leg and beats fine leg 49.2 Steyn to Ashwin , 1 run , pitched up on the stumps , Ashwin is deep on his crease and wristed it wide of mid-on , single taken 49.1 Steyn to Ashwin , no run , pitched up outside off , Ashwin winds up for a big swing to leg , ca n't connect Dale Steyn [ 9.0-1-50-1 ] is back into the attack 48.6 M Morkel to Shami , no run , Shami ca n't connect with the slash. Another off-cutting short ball , Shami arched back to cut and missed Mohammed Shami , right handed bat , comes to the crease 48.5 M Morkel to Dhoni , out Caught by de Kock ! ! Top edge and gone. Good catch by de Kock. An off-cutting short ball , Dhoni too early into the pull and takes the top edge , it was going to the left of de Kock who leapt and caught it. Dhoni walked and did n't even wait for the decision. Dhoni c de Kock b M Morkel 18 ( 11 ) [ 4s-3 ] M Morkel to Dhoni , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 48.4 M Morkel to Ashwin , 3 runs , Ashwin shuffles across a lot and then lofts the full toss over mid-on 's head. Tahir running back slides near the rope to pull it back , saves a run for his side Dhoni walks up to Ashwin to have a chat 48.3 M Morkel to Ashwin , no run , Ashwin makes room and too much room , Morkel follows him with a back of a length delivery , Ashwin ca n't connect with the ramp 48.2 M Morkel to Dhoni , 1 run , Morkel cramps Dhoni up , who was making room , nudged to short mid-wicket 48.1 M Morkel to Ashwin , 1 run , Steyn comes in and then allows the ball to bounce at third man , in front of him , Ashwin backing away and cutting it in the air , Steyn decided to save the boundary , instead of going for the catch Morne Morkel [ 9.0-0-54-1 ] is back into the attack 47.6 Parnell to Dhoni , no run , Dhoni winds up for a big hit and completely splices it , wanted to go over mid-wicket , the ball goes to mid-off , sends Ashwin back. Has a smile and word with his partner Now Parnell comes round the wicket 47.6 Parnell to Dhoni , wide , very short and wide called. The slower ball bouncer and Dhoni just left it What will Parnell do now ? 47.5 Parnell to Dhoni , FOUR , short again and that 's three fours in a row for Dhoni. Down leg too with short fine in , poor , poor bowling from Parnell , Dhoni swivels and pulls one bounce over the ropes at backward square leg 47.4 Parnell to Dhoni , FOUR , now the full toss goes for a four. Mid-off is in , Dhoni had to place it and did so , beating the umpire at the other end. Too easy for Dhoni 47.3 Parnell to Dhoni , FOUR , fine leg was up and Dhoni gets a boundary. Controlled the pull and sent it wide of the man inside the ring , beats deep square running across and diving , the short ball was at stomach height and Dhoni did n't miss out Ravichandran Ashwin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 47.2 Parnell to Ravindra Jadeja , out Ravindra Jadeja Run Out ! ! Two in two for AB today. Driven to mid-off , Ravindra Jadeja is n't quick to beat AB 's throw. Direct hit and Jadeja did n't even dive , was hit too hard for Jadeja 's liking. Ravindra Jadeja run out ( de Villiers ) 2 ( 4 ) Parnell to Ravindra Jadeja , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 47.1 Parnell to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , Ravindra Jadeja left it thinking it was a wide , but the fuller length delivery outside off , was just inside the guideline. Good bowling from Parnell Wayne Parnell [ 8.0-0-72-1 ] is back into the attack 46.6 Tahir to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , very full on the stumps , clipped away to deep mid-wicket 46.5 Tahir to Dhoni , 1 run , fired in on the pads , clipped to square leg , quick single 46.4 Tahir to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , floated up outside off , Ravindra Jadeja comes on the front foot and eases it to long-off 46.3 Tahir to Dhoni , 1 run , googly from Tahir , Dhoni watches it and nudges it to the short mid-wicket area 46.2 Tahir to Dhoni , 2 runs , short outside off , Dhoni smashes the cut square of the wicket , and hurries back for the second 46.1 Tahir to Dhoni , no run , shortish outside off , Dhoni thumps and finds short cover Imran Tahir [ 9.0-0-42-1 ] is back into the attack Ravindra Jadeja , left handed bat , comes to the crease 45.6 Steyn to Rahane , out Lbw ! ! Steyn comes back to get Rahane. Straight and on a length , fast as well , the cross-seam delivery and Rahane misses the swing to leg , hit on the back thigh and that looked out , despite Rahane bending his knee. Aleem Dar had the finger up in a flash. Steyn roars in delight. Rahane lbw b Steyn 79 ( 60 ) [ 4s-7 6s-3 ] Steyn to Rahane , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 45.5 Steyn to Rahane , SIX , Rahane has connected as Steyn misses the yorker. Overpitched outside off and Rahane lofts the quickie over mid-off , inside the ring. Hit well to carry all the way. Kohli is up from his seat and clapping the hit 45.4 Steyn to Rahane , no run , fabulous yorker from Steyn , Rahane digs it out and looks for the quick single , but Dhoni is n't interested , sent back as Steyn charges in 45.3 Steyn to Rahane , no run , another yorker outside off , Rahane throws his bat and misses with the shot 45.2 Steyn to Rahane , no run , Steyn finds the yorker outside off , produces an inside edge from Rahane , great diving one-handed stop by de Kock , saved a boundary 45.1 Steyn to Dhoni , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Dhoni goes hard and finds deep extra cover Dale Steyn [ 8.0-1-43-0 ] is back into the attack 44.6 M Morkel to Rahane , 2 runs , full on the stumps , Rahane shuffles across and clips it to deep square leg , for a couple of runs. Quick running does the job MS Dhoni , right handed bat , comes to the crease 44.5 M Morkel to Raina , out Caught by ( sub ) Rossouw ! ! This time Rossouw does n't make a mistake. Similar shot to the one two balls ago , this one had more elevation and height , Rossouw back-tracked from deep mid-wicket and took a simple catch. On any other ground it would 've been into the crowd , but here at the 'G ' the square boundaries are huge. Raina connected well , but did n't connect enough to send it over the fence. Raina c ( sub ) Rossouw b M Morkel 6 ( 5 ) [ 4s-1 ] M Morkel to Raina , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 44.4 M Morkel to Raina , no run , Raina makes room and has to reach out to make contact , in the end he can only find cover after coming down the track 44.3 M Morkel to Raina , 2 runs , dropped by Rossouw ! Raina pulls and looks to have hit it in the gap , but Rossouw runs to his right at deep mid-wicket , slides on his knees and gets both hands , but it spills out. Once he got there , he should 've held on A slip in place now 44.2 M Morkel to Raina , no run , Morkel beats Raina with a delivery outside off , Raina pokes and misses After Dhawan was dismissed , he twirled his moustache on the way back. Kohli punched him on the glove , with a smile on his face. What were they saying about those two not getting along ? 44.1 M Morkel to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man Morne Morkel [ 8.0-0-49-0 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Parnell to Raina , FOUR , Raina is off the mark with a cracker of a cut shot. Short and wide outside off , Raina cuts and beats point. That was hit really hard 43.5 Parnell to Rahane , 1 run , Parnell comes round the wicket and bowls it full outside off , Rahane eases it off the front foot to sweeper cover Suresh Raina , left handed bat , comes to the crease 43.4 Parnell to Dhawan , out Caught by Amla ! ! The crowd clap and send Dhawan off. They are checking for the no-ball now. The crowd cheer as they think Parnell might have overstepped. But he has n't. The heel landed behind the line and slid forward. That 's fine. Dhawan pulls and gets a top edge , this time the fine leg is back and Amla takes it cooly near his shoelaces. So nonchalantly done. But that 's how Amla is. Never fussed about anything. Dhawan walks off to a standing ovation. Well deserved too. It has been a brilliant , brilliant innings. Dhawan c Amla b Parnell 137 ( 146 ) [ 4s-16 6s-2 ] Parnell to Dhawan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 43.3 Parnell to Dhawan , no run , full toss outside off , Dhawan wants to smash it wide of cover , but drags it straight to the fielder at mid-on , went too hard at it 43.2 Parnell to Rahane , 1 run , low full toss on the stumps , clipped to mid-wicket , where there is a fumble Free-hit coming up. AB and Parnell have a chat. About the field 43.2 Parnell to Rahane , no ball , 2 runs , Parnell has overstepped here. Or has he ? Because the first no-ball call was a wrong one. Here he has overstepped. Low full toss outside off , Rahane slaps it towards deep cover , Duminy does a great job , runs to his right and dives to get a hand and save the boundary 43.2 Parnell to Rahane , wide , Rahane charges Parnell , who digs it in very short , called a wide for height 43.1 Parnell to Rahane , 2 runs , short on the stumps , pulled to deep mid-wicket , where Rossouw - the sub - dives to his left to field and keep it to a couple 42.6 Tahir to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane was setting up for a big sweep , then saw the length was full , jammed it to the right of short mid-wicket 42.5 Tahir to Rahane , no run , another googly , flicked straight to the fielder at short mid-wicket 42.5 Tahir to Rahane , wide , googly gone wrong , down leg , Rahane paddles and misses 42.4 Tahir to Rahane , no run , comes down the track and drives , but picks out cover 42.3 Tahir to Rahane , no run , skidding on , Rahane can only find cover 42.2 Tahir to Rahane , SIX , terrific batting from Rahane. He comes down the track and then gets the legs out of the way , lofts it beautifully over long-on , who was a mere spectator. All class in the shot 42.1 Tahir to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan comes down the track and mishits the full toss to long-off Imran Tahir [ 8.0-0-33-1 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Parnell to Dhawan , 1 run , Parnell fires in the low yorker outside off , seeing Dhawan charge , the batsman gets a big inside edge of sorts in front of mid-on , they take a single 41.5 Parnell to Dhawan , no run , pitched up outside off , Dhawan sat down and wound up for a big hit , but can only find mid-off This now is the highest score by any batsman against South Africa in World Cups. Dhawan 's 135 that is 41.4 Parnell to Rahane , 1 run , now backs away and dabs it to point , quick single taken 41.3 Parnell to Rahane , SIX , Rahane is a fine player of the pull and the hook. Takes on the short ball and pulls handsomely over mid-wicket. The ball lands flush on the ad-hoardings. The crowd are going mental at the 'G' 41.2 Parnell to Rahane , no run , now comes down the track and swipes across the line , but finds short mid-wicket 41.1 Parnell to Rahane , no run , looked like a slower delivery outside off , Rahane throws the bat at it and does n't connect Wayne Parnell [ 6.0-0-52-0 ] is back into the attack 40.6 M Morkel to Rahane , 1 run , 50 for Jinks now. Slower ball on the pads , glanced away to fine leg , Rahane looks at the heavens and soaks in the applause. Gets a hug from Dhawan 40.5 M Morkel to Dhawan , 1 run , sensible batting that time , dabs it in front of point and takes off 40.4 M Morkel to Dhawan , no run , wild slog now from Dhawan and he misses , the ball flies over the stumps. That shot had no conviction at all. Maybe Dhawan is getting tired 40.3 M Morkel to Dhawan , no run , Morkel beats Dhawan with one that hits the seam and moves away , short of length outside off and moves past the poke of Dhawan , de Kock appeals for caught behind , but no dice 40.2 M Morkel to Dhawan , SIX , Dhawan is bringing on his A game out now , that is arrogant from Dhawan. He shuffles across and then flicks a middle and off delivery over fine leg , almost Viv Richards-esque. So nonchalantly done 40.1 M Morkel to Dhawan , 2 runs , on the hips , nudged wide of deep backward square leg , good running gives them a couple 44 have come off the batting powerplay. A good one for India. If one casts their mind back to the 2011 WC game , it was the batting powerplay that cost India the game. Tendulkar got out and the rest just imploded. Steyn finished with five that day. Looks like a repeat of that match is n't on the cards . With Rahane too playing a quickfire knock , India are in a position of strength. In particular , Rahane took heavy toll of some poor bowling by JP Duminy to thump him for a couple of boundaries in the 36th over of the innings. He followed it up by lofting Morne Morkel down the ground for a boundary and then slapped him through the cover region. Rahane has played with poise and balance . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the last 10 overs : Shikhar Dhawan continued to play with a dash of bravado and adventurism to amass his seventh ODI century. It was an innings , where he did n't just play majestic shots , but also showcased good defence while facing up to South Africa 's pacers. South African pacers tested Dhawan 's technique on the back-foot , but he washed away the challenge with aplomb . 39.6 Steyn to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan does n't know where the ball went to , full and on leg , Dhawan clipped that and it went off a thick leading edge to third man 39.5 Steyn to Rahane , 1 run , back of a length outside off , Rahane dabs it down to third man 39.4 Steyn to Dhawan , 1 run , full on the legs , clipped to deep mid-wicket 39.3 Steyn to Dhawan , FOUR , intelligent batting. The length is short and Dhawan arches back to ramp it to the third man fence , the fielder could n't get there in time. Steyn is a disappointed man. Dhawan is turning it on big time at the 'G' 39.2 Steyn to Dhawan , SIX , take that Steyn says Dhawan ! Mid-on is up and Dhawan deposits the slower delivery over the fence. Wound up and belted the ball , a flat hit and it went all the way 39.1 Steyn to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan is shuffling around a lot , now he moves outside off , low full toss , squeezed to point 38.6 M Morkel to Rahane , no run , now tries to run a back of a length delivery outside off , down to third man , gets an edge , that is fielded by Amla on the bounce at slip 38.5 M Morkel to Rahane , FOUR , Rahane packs a punch when he hits them ! Here he backs away and slaps the leather off the ball through cover , that was hit very , very hard 38.4 M Morkel to Rahane , no run , angling in , on a back of a length , Rahane closes the face of the bat a bit early , the leading edge pops up but falls well in front of Morkel 38.3 M Morkel to Rahane , FOUR , magnificent shot from Rahane. When Morkel pitches it up , Rahane takes him on and goes over mid-off , emphatic shot , one bounce over the ropes 38.2 M Morkel to Rahane , no run , that is good from Morkel. Again disconcerting lift from a back of a length , Rahane was forward to play and then had to take his head back as the ball flew past the bat 38.1 M Morkel to Rahane , no run , now Morkel beats Rahane with extra pace and bounce , outside off , Rahane dabs and misses Morne Morkel [ 6.0-0-31-0 ] is back into the attack 37.6 Steyn to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan had made so much room , so soon that Steyn could bowl it where he wanted it to , Dhawan backs away outside leg and Steyn slips in the slower delivery , following the batsman , Dhawan ca n't lay bat on it 37.5 Steyn to Rahane , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Rahane closes the face of the bat and wrists it to fine leg 37.4 Steyn to Rahane , no run , that flew through to de Kock. Rahane playing a square drive and beaten by the pace of Steyn 37.3 Steyn to Rahane , no run , low full toss on the stumps , was the attempted yorker , Rahane chips it in front of the onrushing mid-on , falls just short 37.2 Steyn to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan makes room and dabs that to backward point , quick single taken , there is backing up this time 37.1 Steyn to Dhawan , no run , what a delivery from Steyn. Pitches outside off and rears up on Dhawan , who was looking to defend off the back foot , the ball flies over the edge. Looked a cross-seam delivery from Steyn Dale Steyn [ 6.0-1-28-0 ] is back into the attack 36.6 Tahir to Dhawan , 1 run , on the middle and leg stump line , calmly worked away through mid-wicket 36.5 Tahir to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane comes down the track and turns it with soft hands wide of short mid-wicket for a single 36.4 Tahir to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan gets forward and drives to long-off 36.3 Tahir to Dhawan , FOUR , poor ball and easy for Dhawan , in that kind of form , just shuffles across and then scoops it over backward square leg , everyone were in and that became an easy ball to deal with 36.2 Tahir to Rahane , 1 run , googly and Rahane goes back to wrist it to short mid-wicket , for a single 36.1 Tahir to Dhawan , 1 run , low full toss , Dhawan reverse laps to short third man , the fielder somehow dives and keeps it to a single Imran Tahir [ 7.0-0-24-1 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Duminy to Rahane , FOUR , Duminy kicks the turf in disgust after bowling it full and down leg , Rahane had to get something and did so , glancing it to the fine leg fence , short fine was inside and that meant , it was a gift for Rahane 35.5 Duminy to Rahane , FOUR , the round-arm delivery goes wrong , dragged down and Rahane smashes it flat over mid-off , needed to get it over the man and did so 35.4 Duminy to Rahane , no run , short and wide outside off , Rahane misses out , cuts and finds point 35.3 Duminy to Dhawan , 1 run , shortish on the stumps , Dhawan gets back and punches it to long-on 35.2 Duminy to Dhawan , 2 runs , Dhawan gets forward and glances it through backward square leg , for a couple of runs Huge smile as Dhawan celebrated. Raina was the first man up from the dug-out to pump his fist. Rahane embraced his partner as well . 35.1 Duminy to Rahane , 1 run , nudged to backward square leg , single taken 34.6 Parnell to Dhawan , FOUR , 100 for Dhawan ! Must say that is a fabulous innings. He was under immense pressure coming into the tournament , but he has produced the goods at the right time for India. Gets to a 100 with a punchy drive on-the-up , wide of cover-point , the ball races away and Dhawan starts celebrating. His trademark pose - with both arms stretched wide. Rahane too joined in the celebration. The crowd make their presence felt . Seven inside the ring as chants of Dhawan and Dhawan ring around the 'G' 34.5 Parnell to Rahane , 1 run , length ball outside off , Rahane comes on the front foot and eases it square of the wicket 34.4 Parnell to Rahane , 2 runs , on the hips , Rahane nudges it to deep backward square leg , good running gives the batsmen two 34.3 Parnell to Rahane , no run , short of length on the stumps , Rahane wrists it back to Parnell 34.2 Parnell to Rahane , FOUR , that came right off the toe end , still it beat Morkel at third man. Width from Parnell and Rahane reached out to drive , Morkel is n't the greatest of movers in the field and ca n't get there 34.1 Parnell to Rahane , no run , pitched up outside off , Rahane drives and picks out mid-off , straight to the fielder 33.6 Duminy to Dhawan , no run , uses his feet and drives to short cover , still on 99 There are six men inside the ring. Good captaincy that 33.5 Duminy to Dhawan , no run , now dabbed to short cover , no run again as du Plessis is there 33.4 Duminy to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan is smiling at Rahane. He pushed it in front of Duminy and set off , Rahane sent him back and Dhawan got back. Gives the thumbs up to Rahane. Not a run at all The crowd are up as Dhawan is on 99 33.3 Duminy to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane gets forward and turns it softly to square leg , Dhawan is quick and makes it to the other end 33.2 Duminy to Rahane , no run , no timing on the pull as Rahane finds square leg 33.1 Duminy to Dhawan , 1 run , nudged to short fine leg , Dhawan moves to 99 Jean-Paul Duminy [ 5.0-0-25-0 ] is back into the attack 32.6 Parnell to Rahane , FOUR , edged and did it carry to de Kock ? Full and wide outside off , Rahane threw his bat at it , got a thick edge , it was dying on the diving de Kock and he could only get a glove , parried it away and the ball still had enough to roll into the ad hoardings at third man. Once the replay is in , will confirm whether it carried or not 32.5 Parnell to Rahane , FOUR , that is a brilliant pull shot. Rahane goes back and then takes it from outside off , to pull to deep mid-wicket , the fielder went to his left , but could only watch the ball race past him 32.4 Parnell to Dhawan , 1 run , on the pads , full and Dhawan flicks to deep square leg , for a single 32.3 Parnell to Rahane , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Rahane gets forward and drives to sweeper cover 32.2 Parnell to Dhawan , leg byes , 1 run , down leg and it 's a poor delivery , Dhawan flicks and misses , they take a leg bye to fine leg 32.1 Parnell to Dhawan , 2 runs , Dhawan shuffles across and clips to fine leg , there is a fumble from Morkel and they come back for the second 32.1 Parnell to Dhawan , wide , slower delivery gone wrong , down leg Wayne Parnell [ 4.0-0-28-0 ] is back into the attack Time for the second drinks break 31.6 M Morkel to Dhawan , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Dhawan bottom-edges the cut to third man Once again Dhawan pulls away. de Kock is unhappy , wondering what the fuss is all about 31.5 M Morkel to Dhawan , no run , tight delivery on the stumps , Dhawan hops and defends to the left of Morkel 31.4 M Morkel to Dhawan , no run , nips back in and catches Dhawan on the pads , but that pitched outside leg , the ball rolls to de Kock off the pads , he keeps the batsmen down to a dot 31.3 M Morkel to Rahane , 1 run , dabbed with soft hands to the left of backward point , quick single 31.2 M Morkel to Rahane , no run , nothing shot from Rahane , short and wide outside off , Rahane plays a iffy dab to third man and the ball beats him. There was extra bounce on offer that time for Morkel 31.1 M Morkel to Dhawan , 1 run , short of length outside off , Dhawan opens the face of the bat and guides it to the right of backward point , they take the single Morne Morkel [ 5.0-0-28-0 ] is back into the attack 30.6 Duminy to Rahane , 2 runs , that was risky as Rahane took it from middle and leg , reverse swept it from there square of the wicket , and got two 30.5 Duminy to Rahane , no run , a delivery that drifts away now , Rahane is beaten on the flashy drive and de Kock whips the bails off , but Rahane was going nowhere 30.4 Duminy to Rahane , no run , goes straight on and beats Rahane 's attempted dab to third man , so close to the outside edge 30.3 Duminy to Rahane , 2 runs , Rahane makes room and punches it in the gap at cover for a couple 30.2 Duminy to Rahane , 2 runs , Morkel now at backward square leg dives to his left and makes a half-stop , saved two runs , Rahane swept and must 've felt that he got a boundary , until Morkel 's intervention 30.1 Duminy to Dhawan , 1 run , shortish outside off , punched to deep extra cover Jean-Paul Duminy [ 4.0-0-18-0 ] is back into the attack Despite the track occasionally offering the pacers variable bounce , it is still a true wicket. As a result , the South African pacers have struggled to get the ball to cut or grip the surface when they have looked to bowl cross-seam . For South Africa , Imran Tahir , with his googly and the quicker one is the one bowler , who has troubled Dhawan. He got the reward for some fine bowling by dismissing Virat Kohli. Steyn though , has struggled to make an impact. In his second spell , he was smashed around and gave away 18 runs in just two overs . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the last 10 overs : Barring a few moments of alarm , Shikhar Dhawan reprised the fine form that he showed in India 's first game against Pakistan and scored a fifty. He twinned good defence with improvisation to put the South African bowlers under pressure. South Africa tested him with short stuff , but Dhawan was up to the challenge. He effortlessly ramped a short delivery from Wayne Parnell over the wicket-keeper before playing a sparkling shot down the ground in the same over. Dhawan followed it up by pulling Dale Steyn for a boundary. Dhawan has certainly played with better footwork in this World Cup and that has helped his cause . 29.6 Tahir to Rahane , no run , Rahane gets forward and defends towards short cover , immediately the call is for 'no' 29.5 Tahir to Dhawan , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Dhawan cuts in the air and Morkel does well at backward point to dive and keep it to a single , it spun back in and into Morkel 's hands , which helped him too 29.4 Tahir to Rahane , 1 run , dabbed to backward point , quick single taken 29.3 Tahir to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan gets forward and pushes it past the dive of Tahir , straight down the ground 29.2 Tahir to Rahane , 1 run , skidding on outside off , Rahane pushes it off the back foot wide of cover 29.1 Tahir to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan uses his feet and drives to long-off AB is off the field. Amla is the acting captain. Not sure why AB is off though 28.6 M Morkel to Dhawan , 1 run , on the pads , Dhawan tucks it through the vacant square leg area for a single 28.5 M Morkel to Rahane , 1 run , short of length outside off , Rahane rises onto his toes and runs it down to third man 28.4 M Morkel to Rahane , no run , Rahane opens the face of the bat and dabs the short of length delivery outside off to point A slip in place for Rahane 28.3 M Morkel to Dhawan , 1 run , back of a length on the hips , Dhawan nudges it through square leg 28.2 M Morkel to Dhawan , no run , short of length on the stumps , Dhawan defends it close to him 28.1 M Morkel to Dhawan , no run , pitched up on the stumps , Dhawan 's bat turns as he mistimes the drive to mid-off Morne Morkel [ 4.0-0-25-0 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Tahir to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan comes down the track and drives to long-off , keeps the strike 27.5 Tahir to Dhawan , no run , slower and on the stumps , Dhawan gets forward and defends softly to point 27.4 Tahir to Dhawan , no run , skids on to off , Dhawan punches and finds short cover 27.3 Tahir to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan gets forward and defends to short cover 27.2 Tahir to Rahane , 1 run , the googly , Rahane picks out and gets forward to defend in front of cover point , quick single taken Ajinkya Rahane , right handed bat , comes to the crease 27.1 Tahir to Kohli , out Caught by du Plessis ! ! Kohli is gone. He is livid with himself. He swings his bat in the air and walks off. Tahir meanwhile , is off and celebrating. Skidding on and on middle , Kohli went back and played that bottom-handed whip , failed to keep it down and finds du Plessis at short mid-wicket. A sharp catch as the ball was travelling. It was hit straight to the fielder , but still had to be taken. Kohli punches the bat in frustration and yells as he knew he had made a mistake , throwing his wicket away after getting in. Kohli c du Plessis b Tahir 46 ( 60 ) [ 4s-3 ] Tahir to Kohli , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 26.6 Steyn to Kohli , 1 run , now Amla with a good stop at mid-wicket , pulled to his right and he got down to parry it close to him. Kohli hit it down and not in the air as he took it from outside off 26.5 Steyn to Kohli , 2 runs , pitched up outside off , Kohli leans into a drive , square of the wicket , Philander tries a one-handed pick up and throw , fumbles and that allows the second. That wo n't make Steyn happy 26.4 Steyn to Kohli , 2 runs , Kohli swivels on the pull and gets it down to deep backward square leg , Tahir runs to his left , slides and makes the stop , saved two with that effort , Steyn claps Tahir 's effort , so too de Kock 26.3 Steyn to Kohli , no run , short outside off , Kohli sways out of the line and sits , lets it go 26.2 Steyn to Kohli , no run , punched back to Steyn , who sticks his right-hand out and deflects it towards short cover , stops the single though 26.1 Steyn to Kohli , FOUR , class from Kohli. Full from Steyn , outside off , Kohli shows the full face of the bat and on-drives superbly through mid-on , the fielder was well wide and it beat him easily 25.6 Tahir to Dhawan , no run , punched off the back foot to short cover 25.5 Tahir to Dhawan , no run , tries to sweep and misses , the ball rolls off the pad behind de Kock , Dhawan wants a single , is sent back by Kohli 25.4 Tahir to Dhawan , no run , pushed off the back foot to short cover 25.3 Tahir to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan wants to hammer Tahir out of the attack , charges Tahir and looks to go over cover , a thick outside edge is found and it lands in front of short third , so easily could 've carried to the fielder , Dhawan gets lucky once more 25.2 Tahir to Dhawan , FOUR , edged and lucky ! Through the vacant slip , Dhawan forced at one and the edge ran away , beating short third inside the ring 25.1 Tahir to Dhawan , no run , du Plessis almost runs Kohli out ! It was punched towards mid-off , Dhawan was halfway down for the single , as he thought the ball would go away from du Plessis , but the South African dives after running a long way , fields and then flicks it back to Tahir , Kohli too was down and had to get back. A direct hit would 've had him Imran Tahir [ 4.0-0-13-0 ] is back into the attack 24.6 Steyn to Dhawan , 1 run , driven to deep extra cover , for a single 24.5 Steyn to Kohli , 1 run , Steyn is n't a happy man at all ! du Plessis with the throw from point even as Dhawan was inside the crease , it was defended to point , there was no run and du Plessis dived forward to field , got up and shied , hit , gave away an extra run off the ricochet. Steyn was livid and let his frustration known. A huge release of anger from the quick. du Plessis meanwhile , smiles 24.4 Steyn to Dhawan , 1 run , another short delivery and again Dhawan pulls , but straight to the fielder at fine leg , this time 24.3 Steyn to Dhawan , FOUR , Dhawan is on song and that is another four ! Short and down leg , Dhawan pulls and gets a boundary , couple of bounces and into the ropes , fine leg had no chance. Bad delivery from Steyn as he could n't get it up near the chest area of Dhawan or in line with his face Steyn pulls out as he loses his run-up 24.2 Steyn to Dhawan , 2 runs , tight single as Dhawan defends to cover and sets off , Miller runs in and misses the throw at the striker 's end , if he had hit , it would 've been close. Instead there is no-one backing up and they come back for the second 24.1 Steyn to Dhawan , no run , off cutter from Steyn , on the stumps , Dhawan sees it and defends to point Dale Steyn [ 4.0-1-10-0 ] is back into the attack 23.6 Parnell to Kohli , 2 runs , pitched up outside off , Kohli plays his trademark punchy cover drive through the diving fielder at cover , the man from sweeper comes around to keep it to a couple 23.5 Parnell to Kohli , no run , short and down leg , Kohli got inside the line to hook , but ca n't connect. An appeal for caught behind is turned down as there was no contact with bat , Kohli is disappointed that he missed out , while AB claps Parnell 's delivery 23.4 Parnell to Kohli , no run , yorker length outside off , Kohli fails to dig it out , the ball goes to de Kock 23.3 Parnell to Dhawan , 1 run , short of length outside off , Dhawan stays back and opens the face of the bat to run it down to third man 23.2 Parnell to Dhawan , FOUR , Dhawan has smashed that ! Pitched up outside off , Dhawan 's weight is on the back foot and hammers it through mid-off , the fielder was in and Dhawan got it wide of him. Dhawan is making a statement of sorts. The Indians in the crowd clear their throats 23.1 Parnell to Dhawan , FOUR , Dhawan was wanting to play that against Parnell , he had left it the last two times , but this time ramps the short delivery to the third man fence , beats Steyn comfortably , a safe shot too 22.6 Duminy to Dhawan , 1 run , skidding on , punched off the back foot down to long-on 22.6 Duminy to Dhawan , wide , what happened there ? Duminy tried something which did n't come off , a different delivery , almost missed the cut-strip. Well kept by de Kock 22.5 Duminy to Kohli , 1 run , tossed up on middle , Kohli gets forward and drives to long-on 22.4 Duminy to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan uses his feet and drives to long-off 22.3 Duminy to Dhawan , FOUR , very poor ball and Dhawan has put it away , rocked back and hammered the pull to the deep square boundary , as Duminy dropped it very short. Hit the gap well 22.2 Duminy to Dhawan , no run , down leg , Dhawan misses out on the clip , the ball rolls away off the pads into the off-side It has gone a bit dark at the 'G'. A shower is predicted , hope that stays away 22.1 Duminy to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli comes down the track and drives to long-on Coming back to the no-ball , Aleem Dar may have got it wrong. The heel landed behind and then the foot crossed the line , dragging over. Should n't have been called a no-ball 21.6 Parnell to Kohli , 1 run , down leg and it 's been glanced away to fine leg 21.5 Parnell to Kohli , no run , pitched up outside off , Kohli looks for an off-drive , but the ball hits the inside half and runs to mid-on 21.4 Parnell to Kohli , 2 runs , caught by Miller at deep mid-wicket , buit it 's a free-hit. So it wo n't count. Kohli mishit the pull and was caught in the deep , they come back for the second Free-hit time ! The field can change as they took the run. AB and Parnell have a chat. Kohli patiently waits 21.4 Parnell to Dhawan , no ball , 1 run , Parnell has overstepped and the crowd cheer. It was tucked through square leg for a single 21.3 Parnell to Kohli , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Kohli gets forward and plays a drive , the ball runs off a thick outside edge to third man 21.2 Parnell to Dhawan , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Dhawan hops and reaches out , toe-ends the cut to third man 21.1 Parnell to Dhawan , no run , shortish and outside off , Dhawan lets it go and it carries well to de Kock 20.6 Duminy to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan plays a controlled reverse paddle to short third and keeps the strike 20.5 Duminy to Kohli , 1 run , worked away off the back foot to deep mid-wicket , for a single 20.4 Duminy to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan uses his feet and drives wide of the diving cover 20.3 Duminy to Kohli , 1 run , Dhawan almost is caught napping ! If Duminy had hit , Dhawan was gone. It was punched back to Duminy and Dhawan was backing up , Duminy under-armed and missed the stumps , Dhawan would 've been just short. A stroke of luck for Dhawan Now goes round the wicket 20.2 Duminy to Kohli , no run , tossed up and turning in , Kohli pats with soft hands to short mid-wicket 20.1 Duminy to Kohli , no run , Kohli turns it with the spin , straight to the fielder at square leg Morkel occasionally extracted variable bounce by hitting back of a length and tested Dhawan 's technique on the back-foot. In the 16th over of the innings , he even got one to climb awkwardly from back of a length to hit Dhawan on the left glove. Dhawan gave Morkel a fitting riposte by pulling the next delivery for a four. South Africa did n't help their cause , with Hashim Amla dropping a catch at backward point to give Dhawan a reprieve. To make it worse for them , Vernon Philander is down with a hamstring problem and is off the field for assessment of the injury. Proteas need to break the partnership to pull the batting side back . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the last 10 overs : Shikhar Dhawan and Virat Kohli farmed the strike superbly to help India gather steady momentum after they lost the wicket of Rohit Sharma. AB de Villiers , South Africa 's captain , marshalled his resources well by introducing Imran Tahir and Morne Morkel into the attack. However , Dhawan and Kohli used their feet to Tahir to keep the scoreboard ticking . 19.6 Parnell to Kohli , 1 run , drop and run to short cover , good thinking from the Indians 19.5 Parnell to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man , saw the length and played the safe shot 19.4 Parnell to Kohli , leg byes , 1 run , Kohli shuffles across and misses the clip , the ball rolls off the pad in front of de Kock and they take a quick single 19.3 Parnell to Kohli , no run , good length outside off , Kohli gets forward and defends to short cover 19.2 Parnell to Kohli , no run , yorker length outside off , squeezed to point 19.1 Parnell to Dhawan , 1 run , dropped by Amla ! Great captaincy by AB , to put a fielder there at backward point. An extra man that is. Dhawan went hard at the cut and hit it in the air , Amla went to his right and got both hands , but it spilled out. The ball was travelling and it was not an easy catch at all. Someone from the team pats Amla on the back after that chance went down 18.6 Duminy to Kohli , no run , clipped straight to the fielder at square leg 18.5 Duminy to Dhawan , 1 run , shortish outside off , Dhawan rocks back and punches to deep extra cover 18.4 Duminy to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan gets forward and clips to short mid-wicket 18.3 Duminy to Dhawan , no run , cut straight to the fielder at point , Behardien is on and makes the stop 18.2 Duminy to Kohli , 1 run , on the stumps , Kohli prefers to go back and wrists it to deep mid-wicket 18.1 Duminy to Kohli , no run , shortish outside off , Kohli goes back and dabs to short third Jean-Paul Duminy [ 1.0-0-3-0 ] is back into the attack 17.6 Parnell to Dhawan , FOUR , even AB is impressed with that cut shot. The crowd roar and roar. The Indians in the dug-out are up applauding Dhawan 's fifty. Width on offer , short and wide outside off , Dhawan plays a rasping cut to the right of point , beating third man handsomely. That raced to the fence in a jiffy 17.5 Parnell to Dhawan , no run , short outside off , Dhawan hops and sees it through to de Kock , wanted to play the ramp and then decided against it 17.4 Parnell to Dhawan , no run , pitched up on off , Dhawan gets forward and drives , but picks out cover 17.3 Parnell to Kohli , 1 run , pitched up on the pads , Kohli clips it to deep square leg 17.2 Parnell to Dhawan , 1 run , shortish outside off , Dhawan plays a late cut to third man , single taken 17.2 Parnell to Dhawan , wide , way outside off and wide called 17.1 Parnell to Dhawan , no run , pitched up outside off , Dhawan goes for a big drive and misses. Encouraging start by Parnell Wayne Parnell , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Snicko shows nothing as well on the Dhawan caught behind appeal 16.6 Tahir to Dhawan , 1 run , uses his feet and drives to long-on 16.5 Tahir to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan comes down the track and looks to defend , the ball was very close to the glove , but from the replay it looks like it may have missed it , de Kock and Tahir were celebrating , but Kettleborough made the right call. The review was n't taken after a discussion de Kock and Tahir are convinced , that Dhawan has edged one onto his pad. They are having a conversation and decide against the review 16.4 Tahir to Kohli , 1 run , shortish outside off , punched to sweeper cover 16.3 Tahir to Kohli , no run , Kohli closes the face of the bat and inside-edges the tuck onto the pads. He practices the shot again 16.2 Tahir to Kohli , no run , driven hard to cover , AB makes a flying stop to his right and throws the ball at Dhawan 's end , Dhawan was going nowhere 16.1 Tahir to Dhawan , 1 run , shortish on middle , punched off the back foot to long-on Drinks have been taken now 15.6 M Morkel to Dhawan , 1 run , the pull now and it does n't carry to Tahir at fine leg , the fielder does n't come running in and dive forward to take it , he opts to field on the bounce. Dhawan rolled his wrists , but still it went in the air , it was more of a help as Morkel went short again Dhawan does a little shimmy outside leg and Morkel was in his run. He does n't deliver 15.5 M Morkel to Dhawan , no run , Morkel hits the bat hard and forces Dhawan on the back foot , one hand comes off the bat handle as he defends to short mid-wicket 15.4 M Morkel to Dhawan , no run , pitched up outside off , Dhawan gets forward and defends solidly to point Square leg goes back now 15.3 M Morkel to Dhawan , FOUR , what a riposte from Dhawan. This short delivery sits up for Dhawan to hit and he pulls hard and to the deep square leg fence , one bounce over the ropes. That is an emphatic hit 15.2 M Morkel to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan is in all sorts of strife as Morkel delivers a short ball and hits Dhawan on the left glove. Dhawan was looking to duck and was late in doing so , the ball thudded into the glove and went behind him. He did n't know where the ball had gone , as he was shaken by the impact. The body swung back due to the force 15.1 M Morkel to Kohli , 1 run , short of length on middle and leg , Kohli shuffles across and turns it in the gap at short mid-wicket Harsha Bhogle on air says that Vernon Philander has a tight hamstring. He is off the field currently 14.6 Tahir to Kohli , 1 run , flighted outside off , Kohli gets forward and wrists it down to long-on 14.5 Tahir to Dhawan , 1 run , quick single taken as Dhawan drops and runs in front of cover-point. Kohli responded well too 14.4 Tahir to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli opens his stance a bit and dabs that in front of point , for a single 14.3 Tahir to Kohli , no run , full and on middle and leg , clipped to short mid-wicket 14.2 Tahir to Dhawan , 1 run , shortish on off , Dhawan gets back and punches it to long-off 14.1 Tahir to Kohli , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Kohli gets forward and pushes it in the gap at cover point 13.6 M Morkel to Dhawan , FOUR , clipped away ! Past the diving mid-on. Length on middle and leg , Dhawan gets forward and forces through the diving fielder. Dhawan looks in good nick 13.5 M Morkel to Dhawan , no run , almost dragged on ! Dhawan looks for a dab to third man , the length is n't there to be playing the shot and the inside edge bounces over the stumps Dhawan pulls away at the very last second as Morkel almost completes his action. Must say , that must make the bowler very unhappy. But Morkel takes it well and walks back without any fuss 13.4 M Morkel to Kohli , 1 run , that kept low and Kohli did well to crouch low and pull to deep mid-wicket , rolled his wrists and kept it down. That was the cutter from Morkel 13.3 M Morkel to Kohli , no run , dabbed to the left of backward point , Dhawan is way down , but manages to get back as the fielder does n't shy 13.2 M Morkel to Dhawan , 1 run , length outside off , Dhawan goes for a big drive and gets a thick outside edge to third man , wide of the slip fielder 13.1 M Morkel to Kohli , 1 run , full on middle , Kohli shuffles across and clips towards mid-wicket 12.6 Tahir to Dhawan , no run , use of the feet from Dhawan and he finds short mid-wicket 12.5 Tahir to Dhawan , 2 runs , Steyn misfields running to his right at long-off and that allows a couple , it was driven past Faf and Steyn charged at the ball , but could n't pick it up cleanly with one hand 12.4 Tahir to Kohli , 1 run , very full outside off , Kohli shovels a bottom-handed whip to long-on 12.3 Tahir to Dhawan , 1 run , skidding on , punched to long-off 12.2 Tahir to Dhawan , no run , Faf at cover dives to his left and stops a fierce drive , saved at least a couple of runs. Superb stop that 12.1 Tahir to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan comes down the track and finds Tahir in the way 11.6 M Morkel to Kohli , FOUR , too full and too straight from Morkel and Kohli makes him pay. A delightful flick of the wrists and the ball is sent scurrying across the turf wide of mid-on. The quick outfield does the rest 11.5 M Morkel to Dhawan , 1 run , even though Dhawan is cramped for room , he finds a way to chop it down to deep backward point 11.4 M Morkel to Kohli , 1 run , 'two , two ' was the call from Kohli as he tucked it through square leg , but the fielder got to the ball quickly and the batsmen were content with just a single. Kohli sent Dhawan back 11.3 M Morkel to Dhawan , 1 run , too straight from Morkel and Dhawan gets inside the line to nudge it down to fine leg 11.2 M Morkel to Kohli , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Kohli gets forward and pushes it through cover , for a single 11.1 M Morkel to Kohli , no run , Kohli shuffles across and defends to the right of Morkel , mid-on fields Sachin is seen taking a selfie at the ground ! 10.6 Tahir to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan makes room and cuts , finds cover-point , the fielder did well as the ball bounced in front of his face 10.5 Tahir to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan uses his feet and finds short mid-wicket 10.4 Tahir to Dhawan , no run , quicker and on the middle and leg stump line , Dhawan pushes it to short mid-wicket 10.3 Tahir to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan shimmies outside leg and then comes back in line to drive to cover 10.2 Tahir to Kohli , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Kohli gets forward and plays a whippy bottom-handed drive to long-off 10.1 Tahir to Kohli , no run , down leg , swept to short fine , inside the ring , Kohli looks for a quick single , sent back Imran Tahir , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack Among the South African pacers , Steyn was impressive. He got a nice shape away from the right-handed Rohit , early on in the innings. He also troubled Dhawan with short stuff. His ability to flick the wrist to get the ball to climb awkwardly on the batsman reminds cricket pundits of former England pacer , John Snow. On the other hand , Vernon Philander extracted subtle seam movement to occasionally trouble the Indian batsmen. With Rohit being dismissed , India need both Dhawan and Virat Kohli to set a solid platform . For India , Dhawan looked in fine touch. Dhawan was getting his front foot more to the pitch of the ball rather than planting it straight down the ground and that helped him to handle the South African pacers reasonably well. The point can be encapsulated by Dhawan getting more to the pitch of the ball to essay a cover-drive off Steyn 's bowling in the seventh over of the innings . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the first 10 overs : South Africa started on a superb note with AB de Villiers running out Rohit Sharma. Rohit slipped at the non striker 's end and that cost him his wicket , as de Villiers effected a brilliant direct-hit , with the batsman finding himself short of the crease. The wicket sparked scenes of great celebration in the South African camp . 9.6 M Morkel to Dhawan , no run , pitched up on the stumps , Dhawan drives and picks out mid-off There is a bit of seam protruding out of the ball. The umpire uses his scissors to cut the extra bit 9.5 M Morkel to Dhawan , no run , pitched up on the stumps , Dhawan gets forward and defends towards mid-off 9.4 M Morkel to Dhawan , FOUR , cracked by Dhawan ! Short and wide outside off , Dhawan slashes it up and over point. Deliberately hit in the air and Kohli comes up to punch gloves , pats Dhawan on the back too 9.3 M Morkel to Dhawan , no run , pitched up on off , Dhawan gets forward and defends to backward point , played with an open face 9.2 M Morkel to Dhawan , no run , short of length on off , Dhawan hops back and defends to point 9.1 M Morkel to Dhawan , no run , pitched up on middle and leg , Dhawan drives and finds Morkel Morne Morkel , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 8.6 Duminy to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan uses his feet and flicks to deep mid-wicket 8.5 Duminy to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan looks for a drop and run single to cover , Kohli sends him back 8.4 Duminy to Dhawan , no run , tossed up on the stumps , Dhawan dead-bats it 8.3 Duminy to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli goes on the backfoot and whips that to deep mid-wicket Only a slip in place for Kohli as Duminy continues from round the wicket A slip and a leg slip that is deep , is in place for Dhawan 8.2 Duminy to Dhawan , 1 run , tossed up on off , Dhawan gets forward and drives to long-off 8.1 Duminy to Dhawan , no run , drifts in from round the wicket , sliding on , Dhawan is on the back foot , misses the defence and is rapped on the pads , would 've gone down Jean-Paul Duminy , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 7.6 Philander to Dhawan , 1 run , driven wide of short cover 's dive and Dhawan beats AB 's effort from mid-off , makes the quick single even as AB misses the throw. I guess , Dhawan would 've made it anyway No slips in place. The lone slip has moved to short cover catching 7.5 Philander to Dhawan , FOUR , no problems with the timing that time. Hit on-the-up as Dhawan leathers the ball through cover. Right off the middle and time for the Indian flags in the crowd to flutter in the breeze 7.4 Philander to Dhawan , no run , pitched up on middle and leg , turned softly to short mid-wicket 7.3 Philander to Dhawan , no run , once again against Philander , Dhawan mistimes a punch , the ball bounces a bit and catches the splice , rolls towards mid-off 7.2 Philander to Kohli , 1 run , too straight from Philander , Kohli shuffles across a tad and works it to deep square leg 7.1 Philander to Kohli , FOUR , Kohli gets his first boundary. Gets a good stride forward and finds the gap at cover. Not hit off the middle , but in the gap and it beats the chasing fielder. A long chase and the ball trickles into the ad hoardings 6.6 Steyn to Dhawan , no run , now du Plessis at short point makes a fine stop as Dhawan cuts and finds him. It was hit with power but Faf intercepted it well Sachin Tendulkar is in the building at the 'G'. The crowd see him on the big screen and go wild. Sachin is chatting to Dave Richardson , with a smile on his face 6.5 Steyn to Dhawan , no run , back of a length outside off , Dhawan defends to short point 6.4 Steyn to Dhawan , no run , short of length on middle and leg , Dhawan defends to mid-off and looks for a quick single , takes a step out and then retreats , knowing there is no single on offer 6.3 Steyn to Dhawan , FOUR , Dhawan picks the slower delivery and blasts the cover drive through cover , the off cutter and Dhawan got forward to lace the drive , splitting cover and mid-off. The variation in pace did n't work out for Steyn that time 6.2 Steyn to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli gets forward and opens the face of the bat to run it down to third man Steyn v Kohli is the battle that the crowd have come to see. Steyn is steaming in at the moment. He has two slips to assist him and how he would love to get India 's premier batsman out and make a statement of sorts 6.1 Steyn to Kohli , no run , that 's a good leave , short of length and outside off , carried nicely to de Kock as Kohli shoulders arms 5.6 Philander to Dhawan , no run , cramped for room by a good length delivery on off , Dhawan mistimes the punch as the ball rolls away to mid-off 5.5 Philander to Dhawan , no run , pitched up on off , Dhawan gets forward and plays a crisp drive , but straight to the fielder at mid-off 5.4 Philander to Dhawan , 2 runs , short and on the stumps , Dhawan pulls , but does n't get it off the middle , over short fine inside the ring , Parnell runs around from deep backward square to keep it to a couple 5.3 Philander to Dhawan , no run , length on the stumps , Dhawan with that open stance of his , punches straight to the fielder at short cover 5.2 Philander to Kohli , 1 run , quick single taken as Kohli plays with soft hands and turns to the right of short mid-wicket 5.1 Philander to Dhawan , 1 run , length on the hips , nudged to deep square leg Coming back to Rohit 's run out , it was Duminy who fumbled at cover but AB was there at mid-off. Rohit should 've realised that , but set off thinking it was an easy single . 4.6 Steyn to Kohli , no run , Kohli is iffy and nervy. That is a nervous stroke. Width outside off - short and wide , Kohli does n't go hard on the cut but just flails at it. As often is the case , he is beaten 4.5 Steyn to Dhawan , 1 run , low full toss as Steyn attempts the yorker , driven wide of cover 4.4 Steyn to Dhawan , no run , just in front of Parnell at square leg. He dived forward but could n't get there. An awkward pull as the short ball got big on Dhawan , he jabbed at it and was lucky that the ball did n't go into Parnell 's hands 4.3 Steyn to Dhawan , no run , that is a ripper and Dhawan is smiling. Short and Dhawan was late in swaying away from the line of that delivery. Hit on the left forearm protector. That delivery followed Dhawan and he was caught in no-man 's land. Steyn does n't say a word and walks back to his mark 4.2 Steyn to Dhawan , no run , another length delivery on middle and leg , Dhawan defends to the left of Steyn 4.1 Steyn to Dhawan , no run , short of length on the hips , turned to square leg The reactions from Steyn and AB after Rohit 's dismissal said it all. While AB was fist pumping , Steyn punched the air with ferocity. That trademark Steyn celebration , bringing his right hand into play and going hard at thin air. The South African team are surely pumped up for the clash. There is intensity brimming from them all around 3.6 Philander to Kohli , no run , Kohli shuffles across to cover off and then shows the full face of the bat to defend it back to Philander 3.5 Philander to Kohli , no run , short of length outside off , Kohli plays a nice looking punch , but finds point 3.4 Philander to Kohli , no run , pitched up outside off , Kohli gets a nice stride forward and blocks solidly to cover 3.3 Philander to Kohli , no run , Philander is probing away in the corridor of uncertainty , on a fuller length and outside off , Kohli gets forward and shoulders arms 3.2 Philander to Kohli , no run , Kohli is beaten ! That 's a Philander special , short of length and jagging away , Kohli has an iffy poke and is comprehensively beaten. Did well not to nick it. Taken near first slip by the keeper 3.1 Philander to Kohli , no run , pitched up outside off , Kohli gets forward and shoulders arms. Saw it and left it 2.6 Steyn to Dhawan , no run , short of length on off , defended firmly to cover Virat Kohli , right handed bat , comes to the crease 2.5 Steyn to Dhawan , out Rohit Run Out ! ! Brilliant from AB and Rohit is gone. It was driven to cover 's left , the fielder dived and misfielded it , the ball went towards mid-off , that forced Rohit to set off , Dhawan sent him back as he knew AB was circling around , Rohit slipped and that cost him , he tried to get back with a dive , but AB threw down the stumps with a direct hit , with just one stump to aim it. He knew it as soon as he hit the stumps. Minimal followthrough from AB as he rifled it in. Rohit lost his bat while getting back too. The third ump confirmed Rohit 's fears. Rohit run out ( de Villiers ) 0 ( 6 ) Steyn to Dhawan , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Rohit has been run out ! He is shaking his head as he walks back. What sensational fielding from AB. Unbelievable stuff and India lose their first wicket 2.4 Steyn to Dhawan , no run , Steyn keeps Dhawan quiet with a full one on off , the batsman defends to the right of Steyn 2.3 Steyn to Dhawan , FOUR , superb square drive from Dhawan. The width was there from Steyn , full and wide outside off , Dhawan opens the face of the bat and drives wide of the point fielder , third man had no chance 2.2 Steyn to Dhawan , no run , on a good length and outside off , nice carry to de Kock. This was bowled at 145kph , left alone 2.1 Steyn to Dhawan , no run , short of length outside off , Dhawan plays a careful defensive shot to point 1.6 Philander to Dhawan , 1 run , driven well and wide of AB at mid-off , who slides and throws , but without the ball in hand , they are happy with a single 1.5 Philander to Dhawan , no run , pitched up on middle and leg , Dhawan mistimes the on-drive , to mid-on 1.4 Philander to Dhawan , FOUR , that 's the first runs of the game. India have waited till the 10th delivery to open their account. Philander helps them with a full one on leg stump , Dhawan flicks wide of the square leg umpire , the quick outfield does the rest 1.3 Philander to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan stays back and punches a good length delivery on off to cover Two slips in place for Philander too 1.2 Philander to Dhawan , no run , full and on the stumps , Dhawan gets forward to defend to mid-off 1.1 Philander to Dhawan , no run , look at that piece of fielding by Miller at backward point , bad ball by Philander , short and wide outside off , Dhawan cuts and to the right of Miller , who dives and knocks it down with his right-hand. Saved a boundary Vernon Philander , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Steyn to Rohit , no run , Steyn starts with a maiden over. Drew the false stroke from Rohit after aiming for that all over , pitched up and swinging away , Rohit went for the cover drive and was lucky that he did n't edge it. Just about carried to de Kock 0.5 Steyn to Rohit , no run , short of length outside off , Rohit plays a dab to the right of point 0.4 Steyn to Rohit , no run , short of length and moving away , but starts well wide of off , definitely swinging for Steyn , but Rohit can leave that and does so Two slips in place 0.3 Steyn to Rohit , no run , there is that outswinger , but starts off well wide of off , easy leave for Rohit 0.2 Steyn to Rohit , no run , nice shot but timed straight to the fielder at mid-on , pitched up on off and middle , Rohit gets forward to play a crisp on-drive , the fielder slid to his left to cut it off 0.1 Steyn to Rohit , no run , shape away for Steyn , but not alarming first up , on a good length and on off , Rohit presses forward to defend solidly Rohit and Dhawan are at the crease. Rohit is on strike. Steyn will open the attack The national anthems are done. Lots of passion displayed when the anthems were being played. Blue outnumbering Green in the crowd. The South African team are in a huddle. They break out of it. The Indian openers are out in the middle. Dale Steyn is marking his run. The countdown is over and we are all set to go. The crowd go ballistic. So here is the first ball ! Teams : South Africa ( Playing XI ) : Quinton de Kock ( w ) , Hashim Amla , Faf du Plessis , AB de Villiers ( c ) , David Miller , Jean-Paul Duminy , Wayne Parnell , Vernon Philander , Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel , Imran Tahir India ( Playing XI ) : Rohit Sharma , Shikhar Dhawan , Virat Kohli , Suresh Raina , Ajinkya Rahane , MS Dhoni ( w/c ) , Ravindra Jadeja , Ravichandran Ashwin , Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav , Mohit Sharma India have won the toss and have opted to bat MS Dhoni : " Well what we have done so far is get a couple of practice sessions in the middle , in between every alternate day was off for us. We have been here for a long time , what 's important is to keep the guys fresh , but at the same time , whenever we turn up for a practice session we want it to be a high intensity practice session. It 's a fantastic ground and the atmosphere is great over here. The capacity is good and when it comes to ODI cricket we have got plenty of fans irrespective of where we play. The stadium is slightly different from Adelaide , the reason being , I think the voices stay inside the stadium. So definitely it 's a bit louder. There was more capacity crowd at Adelaide but yes it 's a good atmosphere. I felt it was quite a complete performance. The batters batted really well , in these conditions , when you have not lost too many wickets close to the 25th or 26th over , you feel as if you need to go hard. You need to capitalise , so that you get into the powerplay with a few more wickets in hand and then accelerate after that. Looking at the conditions , that 's the best bowling attack , unless the wicket is very different. Maybe a Perth wicket , where there is lot more bounce , that 's the time , where we will look to change. Other than that we are playing with the same squad " AB de Villiers : " Hell of a exciting. As big a stage as you can get. India is a fantastic cricket team. We are as prepared as we could be. I sure enjoy it , it 's a good opportunity for the team to reset and re-strategise again. Spend time away from cricket , which is always important and so very excited to get going again today and break it up again after the game. Probably gon na bat first as well. Not too unhappy though , the bowlers have been in good form of late. We have got a great opportunity here to make some inroads early on and hopefully put them under pressure. So one difficult thing about batting first here , is you do n't often known what is gon na be enough on the day. Hopefully we can put them under enough pressure so that they stumble along the way. I do n't know really , it 's nice to know that you are in a good space as a team and you are in good form. People rate you as a cricket team , so I guess you can take the confidence from that. That comes with a bit of pressure , but look these tournaments are huge pressure tournaments , anyways. You cant ' hide from the pressure and the fact that you gon na face some big moments. We are prepared for some big moments again today. For sure , wherever you go there always is big Indian support , for the team , it 's great to see. It 's great support for cricket here today. I ca n't imagine the stadium being full , it 's not full yet. But we will see in half-an-hour 's time or so. Get the juices flowing. " Pitch report by Sourav Ganguly and Pommie Mbangwa : There is a fair bit of grass. It will be a lot quicker than what it was when Australia played England. The grass is quite green. The pitch looks hard and there will be pace and bounce through to the keeper. The key according to Mbangwa is to hit a back of a length and use the bounce on offer. There wo n't be much for the spinners. This is not a 300 pitch. Whichever team which wins the toss will look to bat first as there will be a lot of movement under the lights in the evening . Our man , Raj at the venue has this : " India playing football at the venue. South Africa are limbering up too. Also the Indian team are having their fielding practice in two groups " So that will be a wrap of the pre-match build-up. Now our focus will be on the game. As always we will engage the viewers with our 'have your say ' feature. To begin with there is no specific question for you guys today. You can send us your views on the game whatever it may be , as long as it is sensible and match-related we will publish them. Make sure you use a printable name. Makes our job easier , you know. Get going then as there is still time for the toss and the team news to happen . Today 's encounter takes place at the 'G ' one of the iconic venues in modern sport. Want to know more about the ground then head here - click on the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 section on the homepage and then click on more > > Venues. Lots of interesting and fascinating facts about the ground in there. You do n't want to miss out on such a treasure trove of information . Virat Kohli : " A win against a team like South Africa will strengthen our immense self-belief that we can beat big sides in the knockout stages as well. " Some quotes as we continue our build-up to the game. Here is AB de Villiers : " I have enjoyed busy , intense games. It should get the blood flowing , playing in front of the big crowd in a big stadium with great tradition and history. We always love playing in big games , so nothing will change. We 're just looking forward to playing some good cricket on Sunday. " What is the weather forecast for Sunday ? There was a light shower in Melbourne on Saturday but the weather is expected to be clear with a high in the mid-thirties predicted . South Africa : AB de Villiers has backed Imran Tahir , calling him a match-winner and also ruled out the possibility of playing an all-seam attack. So expect South Africa to play the same team that won against Zimbabwe . Pre-match team news , India : After such a convincing win against Pakistan , India would in all likelihood go in with the same side from that game. Bhuvneshwar Kumar is still unfit , while it looks unlikely that Stuart Binny will get a game despite him having a heavy training session on Friday . " In every series we have played , there has been a subtle mention of the World Cup in a few months ' time and we tried to put ourselves under pressure in every game we have played , whether in Zimbabwe , Sri Lanka , or Dubai. " This is very interesting from South Africa coach Russell Domingo , who revealed that the team had approached a dead rubber against Pakistan in Sharjah a year and a half ago as if it were a must-win World Cup quarterfinal to be able to deal with the pressure of such a big game. " There has always been a subtle mention of it being a World Cup knockout match , " he said . " The South African pace attack is similar to that of Australia , and more potent than Pakistan. Having seen the pace , bounce and swing during Australia 's defeat of England a few days ago , I believe that South African pacers will be able to put the Indian batting line-up under pressure and utilise the new ball with a couple of early wickets. India 's task is really cut out , " said the 45-year-old Jonty . Former South African great Jonty Rhodes feels that the Indian batsmen will struggle against South Africa 's quicks at the 'G'. " Much as I see India putting up an improved performance over the past few months in Australia , fresh from their rejuvenating win against Pakistan , I foresee a South African win with their strong batting , lethal bowling and an all-round fielding side led by mercurial AB de Villiers , " Rhodes told PTI . AB de Villiers too reckons Ashwin is a dangerous bowler , but refused to admit that his side will have a problem dealing with him. We covered all their players , batters and bowlers. Ashwin is a wonderful bowler. They 've got other match winners as well. We 've played spin really well over the last few years. It 's definitely not a weakness of our team , " de Villiers said . Ahead of the game , one man who is turning out to be the centre of much discussion is Indian offie R Ashwin. Kohli praised Ashwin 's role in India 's win against Pakistan at Adelaide last week. " I was really happy to see the way he bowled in that first game. He 's at his best when he wants to take wickets and he was really aggressive. It 's more of a mental battle going on the field and I think he was on top most of the time when he bowled , " he said . " Once you get hold of the momentum , like we did beautifully in the 2011 World Cup , you can see the team looks like a unit when you see it on the field. There 's not an extra effort to prove that to people , but it just is conveyed through watching the game. " Virat Kohli the Indian vice-captain is banking his team to build a 'beautiful momentum ' just as the Class of 2011 had done in winning the ICC Cricket World Cup. " We got the momentum in the first game and want to carry it forward , " he said , his own 107 against Pakistan at Adelaide sparking that. " Yes , we are looking to hold onto that. " " Every game we play , we want to win. I ca n't tell you now because I do n't know what 's going to happen the next four games we play. Maybe it 's a make or break for us , maybe not , but all I know is that we want to win the game. We 've prepared in order for us to win this game , and we 're as ready as we can be. We 're just going to go out there and give it our best shot tomorrow. " " It 's a World Cup. You 're playing for your country , representing South Africa , and they 're obviously representing India. Both nations are very proud cricketing nations , so it 's a matter of really putting it out there on the field and leaving everything out there on the field in order for you to win the game. Friendships are not going to play a role tomorrow. That 's for sure , " de Villiers said on the eve of the match on Saturday . Now moving on and what is all the news ahead of the big clash. First up AB de Villiers wants to keep " friendship " aside ahead of India game. Everyone are aware that de Villiers has a lot of friends in the Indian team. He is a team-mate of Virat Kohli at Royal Challengers but the Proteas captain believes the World Cup is the stage to be fierce , not friendly . Zimbabwe started well with the bat too and were well on course at 214/3 after 36 overs with Brendan Taylor and Sean Williams at the crease. The platform was set by Chibhabha and Masakadaza 's fifties and it needed a good partnership down the order to keep up with the pace. But Morkel dismissed Brendan Taylor and that sparked a collapse. All the bowlers shared the wickets as South Africa bowled out Zimbabwe for 277 , winning the game by 62 runs . South Africa 's clash with Zimbabwe : It was all Zimbabwe as they got four quick wickets to leave their neighbors at 83/4. Enter David Miller and JP Duminy who then sent the Zimbabweans on a leather hunt. The duo put on an unbroken stand of 256 as they registered hundreds against their name. Miller made 138 with nine sixes while Duminy finished with 115 and three sixes. Both scored their runs at well over run-a-ball as South Africa ended on 339 . Pakistan lost Younis Khan early in the chase , but were going smoothly when Shehzad and Haris Sohail were batting. But a collapse saw them behind the eight-ball and it was left to Misbah to wage a lone battle. He made 76 but none of his partners were willing to stay with him. Eventually they lost the game by 76 runs to extend their winless run against India. For India , Mohammad Shami took 4 wickets and stood out amongst the bowlers . What happened when India met Pakistan ? The pressure was on Pakistan coming into the big clash. India won the toss and batted first and were helped by Dhawan and Kohli 's partnership. Dhawan looked good for a hundred before he was run out for 73. Kohli though promptly made it three consecutive tons at the Adelaide Oval since he set foot in Australia last year. Raina 's 56-ball 74 took India to exactly 300. Sohail Khan the bustling seamer finished with a five-for . So that 's the flashback done of their three previous meetings. Now let 's concentrate on what happened in this tournament when South Africa and India played their opening games. Let 's begin with India . India were left to rue their collapse in the batting powerplay when they went from 267 for 1 , in the 40th over , to be bowled out for 296. Later , Dhoni had strong words about that collapse : " You do n't play for the crowd , you play for the country. " Chasing 300 , South Africa were guided by fifties from Amla , Kallis and de Villiers. But regular wickets at the end meant that they needed 13 off the final over. MS Dhoni went for Ashish Nehra despite Harbhajan having one over left. Harbhajan had given just five in his previous over and was the favorite. South Africa had Robin Peterson and Dale Steyn at the crease and the former finished off the game with 4 , 6 , 2 and 4 off the first four balls . India started off well with Sachin Tendulkar and Virender Sehwag putting on 142 in 18 overs. The platform was set for a huge total , but the batting powerplay proved to be catastrophic for the Indians. India were well placed at 253 for 1 but lost four wickets for 30 runs in the Powerplay and their last nine for 29 to collapse to 296. Sachin made a superb 111 while Dale Steyn who had been expensive initially finished with a five-for . 2011 World Cup : South Africa won by 3 wickets. Man of the Match - Dale Steyn Coming to the match , India made 253 on a chilly day at Hove. Sourav Ganguly made a brilliant 97 before he was run out. Dravid chipped in with a fifty. The target was n't enough for a strong South African batting line-up who coasted home with 16 balls to spare. They were in trouble at 68/3 but Jacques Kallis showed his class with 96. The others gave him company with Rhodes and Klusener finishing off things . " We probably should have asked permission from the ICC. I suppose it was a little naive of me not to do that. All it is is a two-way radio which allows me to talk to the players. All we 're trying to do is give the players advice and help them more quickly rather than send on someone with gloves or whatever to pass on the same information. " South Africa moved swiftly in an attempt to defuse the row and coach Woolmer said : " If I have upset anyone , then I apologise. I was just trying to be innovative. " It said : " The World Cup is not the event to experiment with new devices without first seeking permission from the ICC. " The International Cricket Council was outraged by the episode and made its views clear to South Africa in a terse statement . This game was famous for the piece of innovation that South Africa 's captain and coach tried to introduce to the cricketing world. Hansie Cronje and Allan Donald were wired up to coach Bob Woolmer , who sat in the dressing-room dispensing advice. South Africa were experimenting with a one-way radio system. When Cronje was spotted talking to the coach , match referee , Talat Ali promptly pulled the plug on the invention. The ICC later ruled out any such instances happening for the rest of the World Cup . 1999 World Cup : South Africa won by 4 wickets. Man of the Match - Jacques Kallis . The target was stiff with South Africa needing more than 6rpo but they made light work of the chase with Peter Kirsten - brother of Gary - starring with 84. He put on a opening stand of 128 with Andrew Hudson and put the game out of India 's reach. There was a slight wobble when four quick wickets fell , but the Proteas won with five balls to spare . In a game reduced to 30-overs per side due to rain , it was South Africa who came out on top. Batting first India made 180 for 6 with Mohammad Azharuddin making a 77-ball 79. Kapil Dev provided the late fireworks as he hit 42 off 29 balls with three fours and a six . 1992 World Cup : South Africa won by 6 wickets. Man of the Match - Peter Kirsten . So will the jinx be finally broken today ? Howdy folks ! A warm welcome wherever you may be as we start our coverage of this big match. Before we head any further , we 'll have a look back at India 's three past meetings with South Africa. Starting with the clash in 1992 . So that 's that then ! Pakistan have a 0-6 record against India in World Cups. The Pakistani fan is a frustrated man , still waiting for a win. While the South African fans are happy. You want to know the reason ? Then here is the answer - India have never beaten South Africa in a World Cup. Never ! They have played them three times and have lost all three . Wondering what I 'm going on about ? Then you need to know the context behind the ad. For the India-Pakistan game , the official broadcasters had an ad where a Pakistani fan waits and waits - with crackers waiting to be burst - for his side 's win over India in World Cups. His wait starts from his teenage years and still it continues as he gets married and has a son. His frustrated son asks him when can they burst the crackers as he keeps the box safely in the house . 12 : 30 Local Time , 01 : 30 GMT , 07 : 00 IST : In one of the ads being broadcast by the official broadcasters , a group of Indian fans are intently watching a game on television , only for the doorbell to ring. No-one is willing to open the door , but finally one is forced to. When the door is opened , two South African fans stand there with crackers in hand. They handover the box of crackers to the perplexed Indian fan and start singing mauka , mauka in Hindi which translates to chance in English . Preview by G Rajaraman The vast , empty and silent terraces of the Melbourne Cricket Ground lay in anticipation on Saturday for Sunday 's ICC Cricket World Cup Group B game between India and South Africa to electrify the vast hordes of fans enjoying a battle royale on what looks like a bald , hard pitch . A fortnight ago , any optimism around Sunday 's match being a competitive battle would have been looked at with disdain. But the emphatic manner in which India secured victory over Pakistan in Adelaide as well as South Africa 's less than convincing show against Zimbabwe in Hamilton last week have combined to heighten expectations of a keen battle . Some amazing friendships struck on the international circuit and in the much-maligned IPL notably MS Dhoni 's association with Faf du Plessis and Virat Kohli 's bonding with AB de Villiers and Dale Steyn will be set aside on Sunday when the teams step on the field , wearing their respective colours and singing their own national anthems . There can be no doubt that South Africa are the better side on paper , with a series of explosive batsmen like de Villiers , du Plessis , David Miller , JP Duminy and Quinton de Kock to make the most of Hashim Amla 's anchoring approach , a quality bowling line-up that can test the best of teams and an eagerness to make this World Cup their own . Bowling Coach Allan Donald had indicated that South Africa will treat this as a home game for India , considering that Dhoni 's team will secure massive crowd support. It led to some talk about how some of South Africa players do not have the experience of playing before large crowds . However , de Villiers pointed out he has always enjoyed big crowds. " I have enjoyed busy , intense games. It should get the blood flowing , playing in front of the big crowd in a big stadium with great tradition and history. We always love playing in big games , so nothing will change. We 're just looking forward to playing some good cricket on Sunday , " de Villiers said . On the contrary , it will help India if they go into the match believing that they are playing a knockout game rather than only their second fixture in the league stage. A huge effort here can not only help them in their bid to take top spot in the pool but also ensure that they maintain the momentum from the big victory over Pakistan last week . Virat Kohli , who fronted for the team at the media briefing on Saturday , said it was important for the side to hold momentum in a tournament like the World Cup. " A win against a team like South Africa will strengthen our immense self-belief that we can beat big sides in the knockout stages as well , " he said . South Africa may bring left-arm paceman Wayne Parnell in place of Farhaan Behardein or Vernon Philander , who is battling to regain fitness from a stiff hamstring. India will most likely retain the XI against Pakistan. The vast terraces will neither be empty nor silent on Sunday afternoon when the teams roll out a heady contest . Teams : South Africa ( From ) : Hashim Amla , Quinton de Kock ( w ) , Faf du Plessis , AB de Villiers ( c ) , David Miller , Jean-Paul Duminy , Farhaan Behardien , Vernon Philander , Dale Steyn , Imran Tahir , Morne Morkel , Wayne Parnell , Rilee Rossouw , Aaron Phangiso , Kyle Abbott India ( From ) : Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , Suresh Raina , MS Dhoni ( c/w ) , Ravindra Jadeja , Ravichandran Ashwin , Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav , Mohit Sharma , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Axar Patel , Stuart Binny , Ambati Rayudu Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
