Graphs It was a great day in cricketing history as Chris Gayle lit up the World Cup and the Manuka Oval with his swashbuckling double century. The World Cup carnival does n't stop here as the action now shifts to Brisbane , where two associate nations , Ireland and UAE , will lock horns. So , join us tomorrow to witness another great contest hopefully. Until then , take care. Hasta la vista ! Here 's another interesting snippet before we go. On February 24 , 2010 , Sachin Tendulkar had hit the first ODI double hundred at Gwalior. Chris Gayle today got to the landmark exactly after five years . West Indies ' 372 is also the highest ever team total in ODIs played in Australia. The previous one was 368-5 by Australia against Sri Lanka in 2006 . West Indies ' 372 is the fifth highest team total in World Cups. This is also West Indies ' highest total in ODI history . This is also the first time in ODI history that a double hundred and hundred have been scored in the same innings . The 372-run stand between Gayle and Samuels is the highest for any wicket in ODI history . Chris Gayle now has over 400 sixes in international cricket. He is only the second player after Shahid Afridi to achieve this milestone . Chris Gayle is the first player in the history of the game to score a triple in Tests , a double in ODIs and a hundred in T20Is . Chris Gayle hit 16 sixes in his 215 , equalling the most number of sixes by an individual in a single innings. Rohit Sharma and AB de Villiers have also hit 16 sixes each . Chris Gayle 's 215 is also the highest individual ODI score by a West Indian. He broke Sir Viv Richards ' record of 189 , scored against England in 1984 . Chris Gayle scored his double hundred in 138 balls , it is the fastest in ODI history. Virender Sehwag had got to the landmark in 140 deliveries . Chris Gayle 's double ton is the first such instance in World Cups. The previous highest score in the tournament history was 188 * by Gary Kirsten in 1996 . Chris Gayle scored the fifth double ton in ODI history. It is also the third highest individual score in ODIs , after Rohit Sharma 's 264 and Virender Sehwag 's 219 . Let us have a look at some of the records that were broken today . @ usainbolt : Big up yourself me boss @ henrygayle keep doing your thing.. # WIvZIM # CricketWorldCup Niall O'Brien : Great to see @ henrygayle back in form ESP as we have gotten our game out of the way lol. Well played big boss great to see . @ YUVSTRONG12 : Finally he 's got a double hundred in one day cricket ! That does n't surprise me who els than @ henrygayle what a stage to get it thou @ bhogleharsha : Nice way to celebrate the anniversary of odi cricket 's first 200 ! @ henrygayle @ cricketwallah : Given some of the bowling attacks in the World Cup , do n't be surprised if @ henrygayle 's record is broken --- by Gayle himself ! @ TheVijayMallya : Congratulations my friend @ henrygayle so proud of you. Watched your double ton and records you have created. Looking forward to IPL . @ VVSLaxman281 : Congrats @ henrygayle on scoring first 200 in a World Cup match. Welcome back to form mate. Watch out bowlers : ) @ darrensammy88 : That was outstanding @ henrygayle and Marlon Samuels # justBrilliant # WorldCup2015 congrats to # teamwindies keep pressing forward. # maroonFire Before we leave , here 's a few more tweets celebrating Chris Gayle 's double-hundred , the fifth in ODI cricket Holder : 'Very pleased. Obviously , the way we batted was just exceptional. The beauty about that is the two guys just took the game straight down to the end and they both finished it off for us. One stage it was probably a little concernning , but I know the firepower of the two individuals that were batting at that stage. But , it was important and I wanted them to bat at least till the 45th over and took us in excess of 300 runs , which was very important here on this pitch. I found the pitch was a very good pitch. I thought we needed some leeway to give our bowlers to bowl. We are gaining some momentum which is important , but we still have some areas that we can improve on. In terms of our bowling , we could be a little bit tighter. Having said that , having 4 fielders outside the circle in this format is pretty difficult. I just need to tighten up a bit more again on the bowling , I think we can , but that should be a lot better for us. It is obviously a proud moment , but feeling I did n't have anything to do with it , in a sense it is a proud thing. I do n't really dwell too much on it but it 's more team than anything else for me. Once we keep moving forward in the right way , then I am happy. It is quite important , Chris is a very entertaining player and he has been a very good player for us over the years. I think today was his 23rd century and he is leading the century list for West Indian players so , it is just great to have him back in form. Hopefully , he can carry us straight to the finals.' Elton Chigumbura : 'It 's been the weakness so far , the three games we have played so far. So , I think there 's a lot of work to be done. But I thought the way we bowled , Gayle 's lbw , we were just unlucky. He played a massive innings today , it made a big difference. I think we will be fine , but he is a kind of player who is destructive. So , we just have to forget about what happened today and focus on the next game. Hopefully , we can improve on the last part of the innings when we are bowling. Obviously , it was a hard score to chase down but I thought the way we went out there , we showed lots of positives. So , it is just a matter of keep working hard and hopefully , our bowling will come into play in the next game and hopefully , we can chase if we are chasing a large score. I think it 's about the skills , we are not executing our skills , especially at the death. We just need to work hard on our death bowling and it showed a big difference. If you bowl well during the death , it 's a massive difference , between chasing 370 or chasing 300. We just have to go back to the drawing board and work hard on those last 10 overs.' Chris Gayle : 'I ca n't put my finger in my ears ( laughs loudly ) . It was a fantastic day for me , from my personal point of view and from my team point of view , it was a good all-round performance by the team. Just try and build momentum , South Africa , another tough game coming up as well and we are looking forward to that as well. Too hard , but when you work hard , the result will actually come. It 's been a while , you have to face it. Eventually , I got it today. To get to score my first double century in an ODI is fantastic as well. So , I just try and build on this as much as possible. Losing Smith early , when Marlon came in , he asked me did those two balls , what the wicket was doing. Smith one kept a bit low and just try and consolidate there. It was a bit tricky start in the early part of the innings , the wicket was a bit slow and we just have to try and make the necessary adjustments there as well and try and be attacking as well and try and push them back a bit. And eventually , it actually worked and things became much easier for us in the middle and then you choose whichever bowler you want to target at a particular time. Eventually , we get this big total and it was a fantastic effort. Marlon accelerating , did a fantastic job as well. Not worried about my bowling at all , trust me I am too good. Coming off a loss in the first game , we beat Pakistan and now Zimbabwe , another tough task ahead which I mentioned earlier which is South Africa , they are coming off a loss as well. They will be looking to try and beat us as well. We have a score to settle against South Africa. They have beaten us 4-1 back home and hopefully , we can actually get them in a World Cup event.' Chris Gayle is the Man of the Match for his record-breaking 215 Earlier in the day , Chris Gayle and Marlon Samuels had put up an enormous 372-run stand , the highest in ODI history for any wicket. While Gayle brought up his double ton , only the fifth in ODIs , Samuels remained unbeaten on a well made 133. The duo smashed the Zimbabwean bowlers all over the park , eventually putting up the fifth best team total in World Cups. A host of records were broken in the West Indies innings ( which we will put up later ) . The Caribbean team will now face South Africa on Friday at the SCG while Zimbabwe will take on Pakistan at the Gabba on Sunday . Ervine fought bravely at the other end but the 'man of the day ' Christopher Henry Gayle removed him on 52. He then took Matsikenyeri 's wicket and snaffled Chigumbura 's catch off Taylor 's bowling. Zimbabwe approached the chase remarkably well but with too much expected from them , it was only a matter of time before they were bowled out on 289. They scored at over 6 an over , however , West Indies ' mammoth total meant that their pace was never enough to chase this down . Chasing a gigantic total of 373 was never going to be easy. Zimbabwe stuttered in the second over itself , with Chakabva falling to Holder on review. The rain paid a visit soon after , disrupting play for a while. The match was then reduced to 48-overs and the target for Zimbabwe was revised to 363 on the basis of the D/L/S method. Coming onto bat after the rain delay , Zimbabwe lost Hamilton Masakadza and Sikandar Raza in a space of three overs. A collapse seemed imminent but Brendan Taylor and Sean Williams combined beautifully to put up 80 runs for the fourth wicket. Taylor was unlucky to be given out on 37. He was caught behind off Samuels , but the ball had in fact brushed his forearm and not the bat. Williams continued with the good work and brought up his 19th ODI fifty in the process. Just when things had started to look good for Zimbabwe , he perished on 76 , giving Holder his third wicket of the game . So , West Indies have romped to a comprehensive 73-run victory over Zimbabwe. After a poor show in the warm-ups and a loss against Ireland in their first fixture , hardly anyone had expected them to bounce back. However , they have drastically turned things around in their last two ODIs , securing important wins. With 4 points to their name and a net run-rate of 1.34 , West Indies find themselves at the second place on the Pool B points table . The players walk off the field as Chris Gayle leads them off. Holder is seen exchanging a hug with his destructive opener. Both teams shake hands as they trudge off the field . 44.3 Nikita Miller to Chatara , out Bowled ! ! That 's it and West Indies win by 73 runs ( D/L method ) . Another comprehensive win for the Caribbean team. It was the quicker one from Miller , Chatara was looking to push at it , he gets an inside edge onto the pad and the ball crashes into the stumps. Chatara b Nikita Miller 16 ( 20 ) [ 4s-1 ] Nikita Miller to Chatara , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 44.2 Nikita Miller to Chatara , 2 runs , looks to play this one down the ground , but the ball rolls away to deep mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat 44.1 Nikita Miller to Chatara , no run , quicker and on the pads , Chatara defends 44.1 Nikita Miller to Chatara , wide , drifts it down leg , back-to-back wides from Miller A slip is in place for Miller 44.1 Nikita Miller to Chatara , wide , down the leg-side , wided by the umpire Nikita Miller [ 6.0-0-44-0 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Gayle to Kamungozi , FOUR , another short one from Gayle , do n't know what Gayle is trying to do here , this time Kamungozi rocks back and muscles the pull over mid-wicket , the ball runs away to the fence 43.5 Gayle to Kamungozi , no run , drifting on the pads , Kamungozi nudges it to short fine and ca n't get through for the single 43.4 Gayle to Chatara , 1 run , slowish short ball from Gayle , Chatara short-arm pulls it to long-on 43.3 Gayle to Chatara , no run , another flatter one and on the stumps , Chatara pulls it to mid-wicket 43.2 Gayle to Chatara , no run , shortish delivery from Gayle , Chatara mistimes the pull back towards the bowler 43.1 Gayle to Chatara , FOUR , drags this one short and wide outside off , Chatara goes deep in the crease and cuts it square of the wicket for a boundary 42.6 Jerome Taylor to Chatara , 1 run , yorker on leg , Chatara clears his front leg and pushes at it , the ball runs away fine off the inside half of the bat and he will keep the strike 42.5 Jerome Taylor to Chatara , no run , Chatara gives the charge to a fast bowler like Taylor , it was banged in short as well and he manages to duck in time as he was looking to pull that one first up 42.4 Jerome Taylor to Kamungozi , 1 run , fullish on off , Kamungozi mistimes the drive to the left of mid-off for another run 42.3 Jerome Taylor to Kamungozi , no run , good bouncer from Taylor , it was well directed as well as Kamungozi was surprised by it , he just about manages to duck in time , the keeper takes it 42.2 Jerome Taylor to Chatara , 1 run , short and slightly wide outside off , Chatara hangs his bat at it and gets it down to third man for another single 42.1 Jerome Taylor to Chatara , 2 runs , banged in short and at the batsman , the ball does n't rise much as Chatara goes for the pull , he gets a top-edge that goes over a back-tracking Ramdin , the batsmen take two before he hunts it down 41.6 Gayle to Kamungozi , no run , gives himself room and has a swing at this tossed up delivery outside off , ca n't make a connection and drags his foot back in time before Ramdin took the bails off 41.5 Gayle to Kamungozi , no run , stays back to this flighted delivery on off , he turns it into the on-side 41.5 Gayle to Kamungozi , wide , quicker one down the leg-side , wided by the umpire 41.4 Gayle to Chatara , 1 run , touch flatter from Gayle , Chatara knocks it down to long-on for a single 41.3 Gayle to Chatara , no run , gives this one more air just outside off , Chatara pushes it to the left of the bowler in an awkward fashion 41.2 Gayle to Kamungozi , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Kamungozi drives it to long-off and gets to the other end 41.1 Gayle to Kamungozi , no run , slowish delivery turning in from outside off , Kamungozi pushes it into the off-side 41.1 Gayle to Chatara , 2 wides , fires it down leg , the keeper ca n't collect it cleanly and the batsmen take an extra run on the bye apart from the wide 40.6 Jerome Taylor to Kamungozi , no run , on a good length and on off and middle , Kamungozi pushes it towards cover off the front foot Tafadzwa Kamungozi , right handed bat , comes to the crease 40.5 Jerome Taylor to Chigumbura , out Caught by Gayle ! ! You ca n't keep this man out of action. It was another full delivery around off from Taylor , Chigu clears his front leg and drives it uppishly towards cover , where Gayle snaffles it easily. He gets down on the floor after taking the catch and started rolling over in his own way of celebrating dismissals. West Indies are just a wicket away from another comprehensive win. Chigumbura c Gayle b Jerome Taylor 21 ( 20 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] Jerome Taylor to Chigumbura , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 40.4 Jerome Taylor to Chatara , 1 run , full and on the stumps , Chatara drives it towards mid-on and takes a quick single 40.3 Jerome Taylor to Chigumbura , 1 run , in the blockhole just outside off , Chigumbura opens the face of the bat and drives it towards sweeper cover 40.2 Jerome Taylor to Chatara , 1 run , another fullish delivery on off , Chatara drills the drive towards mid-off and sets off , Russell at mid-off picks the ball 40.1 Jerome Taylor to Chigumbura , 1 run , fuller delivery around off , Chigumbura lofts it towards the fielder at long-off , the ball bounces in front of him as Chigu did n't time it that well , the batsmen take a run 39.6 Gayle to Chatara , no run , stays back in the crease and looks to guide one down to third man , but fails to lay bat onto that quicker one 39.5 Gayle to Chigumbura , 1 run , in the blockhole once again , Chigumbura jams it out towards extra cover for a single 39.4 Gayle to Chigumbura , FOUR , flighted delivery on middle and leg , Chigumbura goes across slightly and clips it uppishly through mid-wicket , the fielder at deep mid-wicket ran across to his left and put in the dive , but he was in contact with the rope there and the umpire signals it as a four 39.3 Gayle to Chigumbura , no run , goes down on one knee and looks to sweep , he ca n't connect and wears it on his pad , but the ball was snaking down leg 39.2 Gayle to Chigumbura , no run , yorker on the stumps , Chigumbura backs away and jams it out into the off-side 39.1 Gayle to Chatara , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Chatara guides it towards backward point and sets off for a single , the fielder fires in the throw at the striker 's end , but the batsman was in The third umpire has been pressed into service to check a run-out chance. Looked like the batsman was in and replays show that the batsman had made it comfortably 38.6 Jerome Taylor to Chigumbura , no run , on a good length and around off , Chigumbura punches it to mid-off 38.6 Jerome Taylor to Chigumbura , wide , slower one well wide outside off , Chigumbura lets it go and the umpire calls it a wide 38.5 Jerome Taylor to Chigumbura , no run , yorker outside off , Chigumbura chases it and tries to dig it out , fails to make a connection though 38.4 Jerome Taylor to Chatara , 1 run , fuller in length this time , Chatara pushes it down towards mid-on and the batsmen take a quick single 38.3 Jerome Taylor to Chatara , no run , another bumper from Taylor and this time it is closer to the off stump , Chatara drops his wrists and lets it pass 38.2 Jerome Taylor to Chatara , no run , bumper from Taylor , Chatara just about manages to get down in time , the keeper gloves it Tendai Chatara , right handed bat , comes to the crease Apparently , Chatara came out without his helmet. The West Indian players have a laugh about it. He has to go back and get it on 38.1 Jerome Taylor to Panyangara , out Caught by Ramdin ! ! Taylor gets another one. His good bowling has provided him with the results. It was a back of a length delivery just outside off , Panyangara was looking to run it down to third man , the ball bounces extra and takes the glove on its way to the keeper. Zimbabwe are 8 wickets down now and Taylor is ecstatic. Panyangara c Ramdin b Jerome Taylor 4 ( 8 ) Jerome Taylor to Panyangara , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 37.6 Gayle to Chigumbura , no run , yorker from Gayle , Chigumbura gets an inside edge onto the boot , the ball rolls away back towards the bowler 37.5 Gayle to Chigumbura , SIX , gives the charge this time and launches it over the cow corner fence for his first maximum , good use of the feet there from the Zimbabwean captain 37.4 Gayle to Panyangara , 1 run , the umpire think it came off the bat , but that was the wrong call from the umpire , it was darted in the blockhole , Panyangara was looking to sweep it fine , but fails to connect and wears it on his boot , the batsmen cross over West Indies have decided to review an lbw decision. Panyangara is the man in question here. Gayle 's front foot is fine. Was it sliding down leg ? There is definitely no bat involved as Snicko also points out. The ball is clipping the outside half of the leg stump and the onfield decision stays 37.3 Gayle to Chigumbura , 1 run , in the blockhole , Chigumbura goes deep in the crease and jams it out to long-on 37.2 Gayle to Panyangara , 1 run , drags the slog sweep from outside off to deep mid-wicket , only a single available there 37.1 Gayle to Chigumbura , 1 run , gives this one more air on middle and leg , Chigumbura comes down the track and works it towards mid-wicket for a single 36.6 Jerome Taylor to Panyangara , no run , lines up for this big heave but ends up mistiming the full delivery towards mid-on 36.5 Jerome Taylor to Chigumbura , 1 run , full toss from Taylor once again , Chigumbura bunts it down to long-off 36.4 Jerome Taylor to Panyangara , 1 run , another yorker from Taylor , this is great bowling , Panyangara just about manages to squeeze it out to third man 36.3 Jerome Taylor to Panyangara , no run , full toss from Taylor , Panyangara drives it to cover 36.2 Jerome Taylor to Chigumbura , 1 run , yorker from Taylor , right in the blockhole , Chigu jams it out to long-on 36.1 Jerome Taylor to Panyangara , 1 run , that could have been close had Carter at cover-point picked it up cleanly , it was fuller and outside off , Panyangara drives it towards cover-point , who misfields and allows the batsmen , who were stuck in the middle of the pitch , the batsmen take a single easily at the end Jerome Taylor [ 6.0-0-23-1 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Gayle to Chigumbura , no run , quicker one again from Gayle , Chigumbura pushes it back to the bowler 35.5 Gayle to Panyangara , leg byes , 1 run , darted full and on the pads , Panyangara was looking to play across the line and completely misses it , the ball rolls away into the on-side after clipping the pad , the batsmen sneak in a leg bye , there was also an appeal , but the ball was going down leg Tinashe Panyangara , right handed bat , comes to the crease 35.4 Gayle to Matsikenyeri , out Lbw ! ! Gayle has his second. There 's just no way that this man can do wrong today. It was the quicker one from Gayle , Matsikenyeri was looking to push at it , but fails to lay bat onto it. The ball strikes him below the knee roll as he was stuck inside the crease , it ca n't get easier than this for the umpire , who raised his finger in a flash. Gayle celebrates with his mates. Matsikenyeri lbw b Gayle 19 ( 23 ) [ 4s-2 ] Gayle to Matsikenyeri , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 35.3 Gayle to Chigumbura , 1 run , flatter once again from Gayle , Chigumbura pulls it towards short fine and the batsmen take a quick run 35.2 Gayle to Matsikenyeri , 1 run , shortish delivery from Gayle , Matsikenyeri pulls it to behind square , the batsmen take a single , he did n't time it that well 35.1 Gayle to Matsikenyeri , no run , did it clip the pad ? The umpire thinks so. It was down the leg-side , Matsikenyeri goes down on one knee and looks to sweep , but ca n't connect , the keeper collects Time for the batting powerplay 34.6 A Russell to Matsikenyeri , 1 run , good delivery from Russell to end the over , it was fuller and around off , Matsikenyeri drills it towards mid-off and the batsmen take a single , the batsman was hurried into the drive there as the ball was quickly onto him , it was bowled at 143kph 34.5 A Russell to Matsikenyeri , 2 runs , back of a length delivery angling into the batsman , who was backing away , he tucks it away behind square and the batsmen run for a brace 34.4 A Russell to Matsikenyeri , no run , another short one from Russell , Matsikenyeri has a swat at it , but the ball goes past the blade 34.3 A Russell to Matsikenyeri , FOUR , banged in short and at the batsman , Matsikenyeri hangs back in the crease and pulls it to the deep mid-wicket fence for a boundary 34.2 A Russell to Chigumbura , 1 run , fuller in length and angling in on middle and leg , Chigumbura looks to work it through the on-side , the ball rolls away fine off the inside half of the bat 34.1 A Russell to Matsikenyeri , 1 run , banged in short and outside off , the ball hurried onto Matsikenyeri , who was looking to cut. He gets a thick edge that rolls away down to third man 33.6 Gayle to Chigumbura , 2 runs , darted on middle and leg , Chigumbura clips it wide of long-on and the batsmen have ample time to come back for the second 33.5 Gayle to Chigumbura , no run , floated up on middle stump line , turned to mid-wicket Elton Chigumbura , right handed bat , comes to the crease 33.4 Gayle to C Ervine , out Bowled ! ! There 's no stopping this man , is there ? He picks up a wicket in his first over. The dangerman Ervine is gone. Ervine shuffled across way too much here and Gayle darted it on the leg stump line , Ervine tried to sweep it away , but failed to make a connection. The ball cannons into the leg stump and Gayle is delighted. He started dancing as soon as the ball hit the stumps. C Ervine b Gayle 52 ( 41 ) [ 4s-7 6s-1 ] Gayle to C Ervine , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 33.3 Gayle to Matsikenyeri , leg byes , 1 run , gives the charge and looks to work it through the leg-side , the batsmen sneak in a leg bye as the ball rolls away off the pad 33.2 Gayle to Matsikenyeri , no run , shortish delivery from Matsikenyeri , Matsikenyeri pulls it behind square , where Russell dives to his left and stops the ball , he has some problem with his shoulder as soon as he threw the ball towards the striker 's end Comes over the wicket to the right-hander 33.1 Gayle to C Ervine , 1 run , drifting on the pads , Ervine works it through mid-wicket for a single Chris Gayle , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Gayle will chance his arm with the ball now 32.6 A Russell to C Ervine , 1 run , another short delivery to end the over , this time Ervine gets hurried into the pull , but manages to get it away down to fine leg , he will keep the strike 32.5 A Russell to C Ervine , no run , bumper angling away outside off , Ervine drops his wrists and lets it go 32.4 A Russell to C Ervine , FOUR , banged in short from Russell , Ervine pulls it to the fine leg fence , the fielder at fine leg was fine and even though he ran to his right , the ball beat him to the fence , brings up the 6th ODI fifty for Ervine 32.3 A Russell to Matsikenyeri , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Matsikenyeri hangs back and guides it down to third man 32.2 A Russell to Matsikenyeri , FOUR , good shot from Matsikenyeri , it was slightly fuller and around off , Matsikenyeri just lofts it straight over the bowler and the ball runs away to the fence in no time , stand and deliver stuff from Matsikenyeri 32.2 A Russell to Matsikenyeri , wide , Russell goes down the leg-side once again , the umpire exercises his arms 32.1 A Russell to Matsikenyeri , no run , just short of a good length and on off , Matsikenyeri opens the face of the bat and pushes it towards point Andre Russell [ 3.0-0-24-0 ] is back into the attack Russell will start the proceedings after the drinks break Drinks are on the field now. This has been a gallant chase from Zimbabwe but one gets the feeling that they are just a couple of wickets away from defeat. Ervine is looking in sublime touch , but the loss of Williams has hurt them . 31.6 Sammy to C Ervine , no run , short of a length and well outside off , Ervine looks to cut and misses , the ball stayed a tad low and sneaked underneath Ervine 's bat 31.5 Sammy to Matsikenyeri , 1 run , Sammy slips in the slower ball , did n't come onto the bat as Matsikenyeri expected , he 's very early on the pull , gets a top-edge that drops well in front of short third man 31.4 Sammy to Matsikenyeri , no run , full toss from Sammy , Matsikenyeri missed out there , drives it back towards the bowler 31.3 Sammy to C Ervine , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven down towards long-off for a single 31.2 Sammy to C Ervine , FOUR , Ervine is playing a blinder here , short and wide from Sammy , Ervine slaps it square on the off-side , the man in the deep is very square and the ball races away to the fence 31.1 Sammy to C Ervine , 2 runs , on a good length and well outside off , Ervine shuffles across and whips it behind square on the on-side , he did n't hit it cleanly , that allows the fielder to get across and keeps them down to a brace Darren Sammy , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 30.6 Nikita Miller to C Ervine , 1 run , flighted and on off , eased down towards long-on for a single 30.5 Nikita Miller to C Ervine , no run , slower and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler 30.4 Nikita Miller to C Ervine , FOUR , Taylor makes a mess of a chance , Ervine came down the track , was n't there to the pitch but goes through with the lofted drive , the ball hung in the air , Taylor got across to his right from long-on , he looked to be worried about the ropes that was just behind him , in the end he does n't clasp it cleanly and allows the ball to bounce over the ropes 30.3 Nikita Miller to C Ervine , 2 runs , Miller drops one short and gets it to spin back into Ervine , he backs away a long way and cuts it square on the off-side for a brace 30.2 Nikita Miller to C Ervine , no run , the reverse sweep from Ervine , Miller fired it flatter and just outside off , the shot is not on with that angle 30.1 Nikita Miller to Matsikenyeri , 1 run , flatter and skidding through to Matsikenyeri , worked towards long-on for a single Nikita Miller [ 5.0-0-36-0 ] is back into the attack 29.6 J Holder to C Ervine , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Ervine defends it with an open face towards backward point. He wants a single and is sent back , makes his ground with a dive 29.5 J Holder to C Ervine , FOUR , this is clean hitting from Ervine , Holder banged one short and on the stumps , Ervine swivels across and pulls it over square leg , the ball races away to the fence in a jiffy 29.4 J Holder to Matsikenyeri , 1 run , on a length and just outside off , Matsikenyeri was looking to chop it towards the off-side and got an inside edge , Ervine called him through for a quick single. Holder gets in front of the batsman and tries his soccer skills , does n't get hold of the ball , Ervine dives to make his ground 29.3 J Holder to C Ervine , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , dabbed towards third man for a single 29.2 J Holder to C Ervine , SIX , this is even better ! Full and on Ervine 's pads , he leans forward after coming down the track , uses his wrists to good effect and whips it high and over mid-wicket for a maximum 29.1 J Holder to C Ervine , FOUR , nicely played by Ervine , this was overpitched and on the stumps , Ervine leans forward , presents the full face of the bat and drives it through mid-on for a boundary 28.6 Jerome Taylor to Matsikenyeri , no run , another near perfect yorker from Taylor , Matsikenyeri just about manages to dig it out 28.5 Jerome Taylor to Matsikenyeri , 2 runs , short and just outside off , Matsikenyeri was cramped for room as he went for the slash , the thick edge goes through the vacant slip cordon , Sammy moves across to his left at third man and keeps them down to a brace 28.4 Jerome Taylor to Matsikenyeri , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Matsikenyeri was prodding forward in defence , gets it high on the bat 28.4 Jerome Taylor to Matsikenyeri , wide , Taylor loses his line once again and slips this one down leg , wide called 28.3 Jerome Taylor to Matsikenyeri , no run , full and a hint of late swing back into Matsikenyeri , he gets behind the line and drives it back towards the bowler 28.3 Jerome Taylor to Matsikenyeri , wide , Taylor slips one well down the leg-side , wide called 28.2 Jerome Taylor to Matsikenyeri , no run , that very nearly went right through Matsikenyeri 's defences , Taylor slipped in the yorker , but the line was just outside off , Matsikenyeri was late in bringing his bat down and is beaten 28.1 Jerome Taylor to Matsikenyeri , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended towards the off-side Jerome Taylor [ 5.0-0-19-1 ] is back into the attack 27.6 J Holder to C Ervine , no run , fuller length delivery and on off , jammed towards mid-on Stuart Matsikenyeri , right handed bat , comes to the crease 27.5 J Holder to Sean Williams , out Caught by Dwayne Smith ! ! That 's a body blow for Zimbabwe. Good short delivery from Holder , the line was just outside off , Williams was looking to play the pull , is hurried onto the shot and ends up top-edging it to the right of square leg. Smith runs across to his left and claims the catch. Williams falls once again in his seventies. Sean Williams c Dwayne Smith b J Holder 76 ( 61 ) [ 4s-9 ] J Holder to Sean Williams , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 27.4 J Holder to C Ervine , 1 run , full and on Ervine 's pads , clipped away behind square on the on-side for a single 27.3 J Holder to Sean Williams , 1 run , the slower yorker from Holder , Williams gets his bat down in time and digs it to the left of square leg for a run 27.2 J Holder to C Ervine , 1 run , this one comes back with the angle , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a single 27.1 J Holder to C Ervine , no run , the off-cutter from Holder , grips on the surface and spins past the outside edge of Ervine , he was looking to dab it towards third man 26.6 Samuels to C Ervine , 1 run , pushed through by Samuels , Ervine makes room and cuts it towards deep cover for a single 26.5 Samuels to C Ervine , FOUR , back-to-back boundaries from Ervine , Samuels dropped this one short and just outside off , Ervine rocks back and pulls it past mid-wicket for another boundary 26.4 Samuels to C Ervine , FOUR , the sweep from Ervine , goes down on his knees , gets a big stride forward , rolls his wrists and sweeps it behind square on the on-side for a boundary 26.3 Samuels to Sean Williams , 1 run , slower and just outside off , Williams was early into thne push , nearly chipped a return catch back at the bowler 26.2 Samuels to Sean Williams , no run , pushed through by Samuels , Williams chops it straight to cover 26.1 Samuels to Sean Williams , no run , flatter and wider from Samuels , Williams cuts it straight to the fielder at extra cover 25.6 J Holder to Sean Williams , 1 run , Holder shortens his length and angles this one back into Williams , he plays a short-arm jab and gets a single past square leg 25.5 J Holder to C Ervine , 1 run , back of a length and well outside off , Ervine rides with the bounce and dabs it towards third man 25.4 J Holder to C Ervine , no run , tad fuller and on off , Ervine gets across and defends it with an angled bat , the ball rolls away towards mid-wicket 25.3 J Holder to C Ervine , no run , Holder bangs one short and just outside off , Ervine drops his wrists and lets it go Holder is bowling from round the wicket 25.2 J Holder to Sean Williams , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , Williams shuffles across and tucks it past mid-wicket for a single 25.1 J Holder to Sean Williams , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Williams plays with an open face and guides it towards cover Jason Holder [ 4.0-0-26-2 ] is back into the attack 24.6 Samuels to Sean Williams , 1 run , too short and too wide from Samuels , Williams rocks back and cuts it towards deep cover for a single 24.5 Samuels to Sean Williams , 2 runs , flatter and well outside off , Williams prods across and pulls it in front of square on the on-side for a couple of runs 24.4 Samuels to Sean Williams , FOUR , good use of the feet from Williams , comes down the track , was n't there to the pitch of the ball but goes through with the shovel , gets it back over the bowler 's head , a couple of bounces and over the fence 24.3 Samuels to C Ervine , 1 run , tossed up and spinning away from off , cut square on the off-side for a single 24.2 Samuels to C Ervine , no run , Samuels drops one short and just outside off , pulled straight to the fielder at mid-wicket 24.1 Samuels to Sean Williams , 1 run , Samuels flights one outside off , Williams makes room and cuts it square on the off-side for a single Meanwhile Roach is on the field ? No , Sammy 's back in Williams looks to be down with a bout of cramps. The physio is out and is helping him stretch his legs. He 's played a blinder but Zimbabwe need more runs from him. Now , some tapping on his back , is it muscle cramps ? 23.6 A Russell to C Ervine , no run , the loopy bouncer from Russell , angles across Ervine , he drops his wrists and lets it go 23.5 A Russell to Sean Williams , 1 run , short and on the stumps , Williams swivels across and pulls it straight to deep square leg for a single 23.4 A Russell to Sean Williams , 2 runs , short and on the stumps , Williams swivels across and pulls it in front of square on the on-side. Simmons gets across from the deep , puts the slide and saves a couple of runs 23.3 A Russell to Sean Williams , FOUR , cracking shot , Russell drifts one around the middle stump line , Williams leans forward and flicks it in front of square on the on-side , no one in the deep , the ball races away to the fence 23.2 A Russell to Sean Williams , no run , on a good length and going away with the angle , Williams stays rooted to his crease and plays a flat-footed drive towards cover 23.1 A Russell to C Ervine , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed away square on the off-side for a single 22.6 Samuels to C Ervine , 1 run , flatter and just outside off , punched off the back-foot towards long-off 22.5 Samuels to C Ervine , no run , Samuels drifts one around off , pushed off the back-foot 22.4 Samuels to C Ervine , no run , slower and just outside off , defended towards the off-side 22.3 Samuels to C Ervine , no run , flatter and just outside off , punched towards cover-point 22.2 Samuels to C Ervine , no run , slower and just outside off , defended towards the off-side 22.1 Samuels to Sean Williams , 1 run , Williams comes down the track , does n't get to the pitch of the ball and ends up dragging it towards long-on 21.6 A Russell to Sean Williams , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Williams plays with an open face and guides it past cover-point for a single 21.5 A Russell to Sean Williams , no run , tad fuller and on the stumps , pushed towards mid-on 21.4 A Russell to Sean Williams , FOUR , that 's nicely played by Williams , this was pitched up and around off , Williams clears his left leg and lifts it over mid-on for a boundary 21.4 A Russell to Sean Williams , wide , Russell goes short and way outside off , wide called. The free-hit remains Free Hit for Williams , the field can change though 21.4 A Russell to C Ervine , no ball , 1 run , Russell oversteps once again as he bangs this one short and well outside off , mistimed pull towards extra cover for a single Free Hit 21.4 A Russell to C Ervine , no ball , short and wide from Russell , Ervine looks to cut and misses. But Russell has overstepped 21.3 A Russell to Sean Williams , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Williams throws his bat at that and slices it away towards third man 21.2 A Russell to Sean Williams , no run , excellent stop from Carter at backward point , this was short and wide from Russell , Williams cracked it hard and to the right of Carter , he dives and saves a certain boundary 21.1 A Russell to Sean Williams , 2 runs , 19th ODI fifty for Williams , this was full and wide from Russell , driven square on the off-side for a couple of runs 20.6 Samuels to Sean Williams , 1 run , slower and just outside off , eased down towards long-off for a single 20.5 Samuels to Sean Williams , no run , Samuels drops one short and well outside off , Williams makes room and cracks it to the right of Holder at extra cover , he dives and saves a certain boundary 20.4 Samuels to Sean Williams , no run , flighted and just outside off , Williams comes down the track and gets an inside edge on the drive 20.3 Samuels to Sean Williams , 2 runs , flatter and well outside off , Williams makes room and cuts it square on the off-side , gets back for the second run 20.2 Samuels to C Ervine , 1 run , that could have been close for Sean Williams , confusion between the two batsmen after Ervine dabbed one in front of cover. Williams had to put in the dive in the end to make his ground. Holder was the fielder , he was slow onto the ball , that gave some time for Williams Craig Ervine , left handed bat , comes to the crease 20.1 Samuels to Brendan Taylor , out Caught by Ramdin ! ! That 's another perplexing call from the third umpire , Taylor walks away disappointed. Another decision that has gone against Zimbabwe. Can we call it as a howler from third umpire , Ranmore Martinesz ? This was tossed up and just outside off , Taylor went for the sweep , the ball ballooned off the forearm ? But did it brush the gloves as well ? The third umpire certainly thought so , Gould has to change his decision. Brendan Taylor c Ramdin b Samuels 37 ( 48 ) [ 4s-2 6s-1 ] Samuels to Brendan Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Shout for a caught behind. West Indies want a review. Ramdin was very confident , so was the bowler. Brendan Taylor is suggesting to his partner that it went off his forearm and replays prove him right. But did it flick the gloves on the way , nothing on the Snicko. The original call from Ian Gould is NOT-OUT , but he has changed his decision. OUT is the call 19.6 A Russell to Sean Williams , 2 runs , too short from Russell , Williams swivels across on the pull , gets it in front of square on the on-side for a brace 19.5 A Russell to Sean Williams , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , pushed off the back-foot towards point 19.4 A Russell to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , dabbed towards backward point for a single 19.3 A Russell to Brendan Taylor , no run , that 's a good bumper from Russell , short and well-directed , Taylor was looking to ramp it towards third man , makes a late call to sway away from the line 19.2 A Russell to Brendan Taylor , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Taylor was making room outside leg and ends up dabbing it in front of point 19.1 A Russell to Sean Williams , 1 run , on a good length and going with the angle , driven square on the off-side , he thinks about a second run and decides against it Andre Russell , right-arm fast , comes into the attack Drinks are on the field now. Zimbabwe lost three wickets early but Taylor and Williams have stabilized the innings somewhat. Taylor has dropped anchor while Williams has been aggressive. Still a long way to go though 18.6 Samuels to Sean Williams , 1 run , tossed up and on the off-stump channel , Williams was looking for a repeat of the last shot , does n't get hold and the ball rolls backward of square on the on-side for a single 18.5 Samuels to Sean Williams , FOUR , that 's nicely played by Williams , gets down on his knees , uses the pace of Samuels ' and sweeps it behind square on the on-side , beats Taylor getting across from deep square leg 18.4 Samuels to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , slower and wider from Samuels , eased past cover for a single 18.3 Samuels to Brendan Taylor , no run , flighted and just outside off , pushed back towards the bowler 18.2 Samuels to Brendan Taylor , no run , another reverse sweep attempted by Taylor , gets a bottom edge as the ball rolls past the keeper 18.1 Samuels to Sean Williams , 1 run , flatter and just outside off , Williams comes down the track and drills it towards long-off for a single 17.6 Nikita Miller to Brendan Taylor , no run , slower and wider from Miller , Taylor lunges forward and blocks 17.5 Nikita Miller to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , nicely done by Taylor , gets down on his knees , changes stance , gets on top of the bounce and reverse-sweeps it past short third man for a boundary 17.4 Nikita Miller to Brendan Taylor , no run , Taylor comes down the track and looks to defend , does n't get to the pitch of the ball and opts to pad it away 17.3 Nikita Miller to Sean Williams , 1 run , pushed through and just outside off , whipped away behind square on the on-side for a single 17.2 Nikita Miller to Sean Williams , FOUR , lovely shot , a little shimmy down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and caresses it sweetly past mid-off. Smith puts in the slide , but the ball was always going to beat him to the fence 17.1 Nikita Miller to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , flatter and wider from Miller , Taylor went for the cut , gets a bottom edge that bounces past the keeper , just a single 16.6 Samuels to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , this was tossed up and well outside off , Taylor goes for the sweep and gets a single behind square on the on-side 16.5 Samuels to Brendan Taylor , no run , pushed through by Samuels , Taylor clipped it behind square on the on-side , wants a single but is sent back 16.4 Samuels to Sean Williams , 1 run , flatter and wider from Samuels , Williams backs away and cuts it square on the off-side for a single 16.3 Samuels to Sean Williams , FOUR , that 's excellent cricket from Williams , comes down the track , goes inside out over extra cover , the fielder at long-off gets across and pushes the ball back into play , as he did so , his foot was touching the cushions , that 's a boundary. Russell was the fielder 16.2 Samuels to Sean Williams , no run , tossed up and on off , driven back towards the bowler 16.1 Samuels to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , tossed up and drifting back into Taylor , punched down towards long-on for a single 15.6 Nikita Miller to Sean Williams , no run , slower and just outside off , pushed back towards the bowler 15.5 Nikita Miller to Sean Williams , no run , this was tossed up and well outside off , Williams goes for the big sweep behind square on the on-side , misses and is hit on the body 15.4 Nikita Miller to Sean Williams , no run , flatter and on off , clipped towards mid-wicket 15.3 Nikita Miller to Sean Williams , FOUR , Williams nails the reverse sweep this time around , rolls his wrists and sweeps it square on the off-side for a boundary 15.2 Nikita Miller to Sean Williams , 2 runs , top-edge and safe , Williams went for the sweep , is done in by the bounce and gets the top-edge , no one out there at short fine leg , a couple of runs for Williams 15.1 Nikita Miller to Sean Williams , no run , the reverse sweep attempted by Williams , this was tossed up and well outside off , he is late on the shot and misses 14.6 Samuels to Sean Williams , 1 run , gets forward and drives it to sweeper cover 14.5 Samuels to Sean Williams , FOUR , nicely done by Williams ! He kneels down and drags the sweep to the deep backward square leg fence 14.4 Samuels to Sean Williams , no run , gets forward and pushes at it towards point 14.3 Samuels to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , shuffles across and turns it to square leg 14.2 Samuels to Sean Williams , 1 run , strides forward and works it to deep mid-wicket for a single 14.1 Samuels to Sean Williams , FOUR , lovely shot from Williams ! He skips out , makes a bit of room and creams the drive to the deep extra cover fence 13.6 Nikita Miller to Sean Williams , 1 run , fullish around off , Williams drives it to long-on 13.5 Nikita Miller to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , punches it to long-off , finds the fielder 13.4 Nikita Miller to Brendan Taylor , no run , makes room and cuts it to cover point 13.3 Nikita Miller to Sean Williams , 1 run , gets forward and works it to long-on for a single 13.2 Nikita Miller to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , gets back and mistimes the cut square of the wicket 13.1 Nikita Miller to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , fantastic shot from Taylor ! It was full and outside off , Taylor comes on the front foot and drives it uppishly towards deep extra cover , Sammy dives near the rope in an attempt to stop the ball but ends up palming it into the fence Jerome Taylor is going off the field. Not sure why. Cottrell comes in to replace him . 12.6 Samuels to Sean Williams , 2 runs , Williams gets down on one knee and sweeps it through backward square leg for a couple 12.5 Samuels to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , leans forward and clips it to short fine leg for a quick run , the fielder has a shy at the non-striker 's end and misses , Taylor was well in anyway 12.4 Samuels to Brendan Taylor , no run , gets forward and gently defends it down the track 12.3 Samuels to Sean Williams , 1 run , goes back and forces it to long-on for a comfortable single 12.2 Samuels to Sean Williams , no run , skips forward and mistimes the drive towards cover 12.1 Samuels to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , moves across and wrists it to mid-wicket 11.6 Nikita Miller to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , comes on the front foot and drives it to long-off 11.5 Nikita Miller to Brendan Taylor , SIX , Taylor gets down on one knee and drags the sweep , the ball flies off the top-edge over the fine leg fence 11.4 Nikita Miller to Sean Williams , 1 run , gets forward and drives it to long-on 11.3 Nikita Miller to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , gets forward and eases it towards cover point 11.2 Nikita Miller to Brendan Taylor , no run , presses forward and defends solidly 11.1 Nikita Miller to Sean Williams , 1 run , gets forward and whips it to long-on 10.6 Samuels to Brendan Taylor , 2 runs , comes down the track and drills it in the air over the bowler towards long-off for a brace 10.5 Samuels to Brendan Taylor , no run , presses forward and defends with an angled bat 10.4 Samuels to Brendan Taylor , no run , shuffles across and works it towards short mid-wicket 10.3 Samuels to Brendan Taylor , no run , gets back and punches it to cover 10.2 Samuels to Sean Williams , 1 run , full around off , Williams drives it to long-off 10.1 Samuels to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , leans forward and clips it towards deep mid-wicket Marlon Samuels , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Samuels from the other end now . 9.6 Nikita Miller to Sean Williams , no run , gets forward and jams it back to the bowler 9.5 Nikita Miller to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , works it to long-on for a single 9.4 Nikita Miller to Brendan Taylor , leg byes , 2 runs , Taylor goes for the reverse sweep , misses and the ball goes off the pad towards fine leg 9.3 Nikita Miller to Brendan Taylor , no run , works it off the pads behind square on the leg-side 9.2 Nikita Miller to Sean Williams , 1 run , punches it to long-on for a comfortable single 9.1 Nikita Miller to Sean Williams , no run , pushed through around off , Williams gets forward and punches it back to the bowler Nikita Miller , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack A bowling change as Nikita Miller comes into the attack . 8.6 Jerome Taylor to Brendan Taylor , no run , short of length and outside off , Taylor cuts it straight towards backward point 8.5 Jerome Taylor to Sean Williams , 1 run , fuller around off , Williams gets forward and drives to get off the mark , mid-off runs to his right and gets to the ball 8.4 Jerome Taylor to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Taylor knocks it square of the wicket and sets off for the single , Sean Williams wants two but Taylor sends him back as the ball is fielded 8.3 Jerome Taylor to Brendan Taylor , 2 runs , short and outside off , Taylor ramps it towards third man for a couple 8.2 Jerome Taylor to Brendan Taylor , no run , back of a length and outside off , Taylor punches it to point 8.1 Jerome Taylor to Brendan Taylor , no run , slides it around leg , Taylor looks to flick , misses and the ball goes off the thigh pad , the keeper dives to his left and completes a good take , he appeals but the umpire is unmoved. There was no bat involved there Sean Williams , left handed bat , comes to the crease 7.6 J Holder to S Raza , out Caught by Simmons ! ! Raza perishes while going for quick runs ! He made room to his short of length delivery which was slower as well , Raza backed away and slashes it in the air , finds the fielder at third man to perfection. S Raza c Simmons b J Holder 26 ( 20 ) [ 4s-5 ] J Holder to S Raza , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 7.6 J Holder to Brendan Taylor , 2 wides , another bumper from Holder ! It was too high and called wide by the umpire. The keeper leaps up to field it but only manages to get a glove on it as the ball rolls behind 7.5 J Holder to Brendan Taylor , leg byes , FOUR , banged in short by Holder ! It takes Taylor by surprised , he jumps into the crease and looks to fend , the ball brushes the forearm and goes over the keeper to the fine leg fence. That was very vicious ! 7.4 J Holder to S Raza , 1 run , back of a length and coming back into the batsman , Raza wrists it to short mid-wicket for a quick single 7.3 J Holder to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , full one on the pads , Taylor deftly clips it to deep backward square leg 7.2 J Holder to Brendan Taylor , no run , banged in short by Holder , Taylor ducks under it 7.1 J Holder to Brendan Taylor , 2 runs , shuffles across a touch and works it off the pads through backward square leg 6.6 Jerome Taylor to S Raza , no run , short and coming into the batsman , Raza gets on top of the bounce and defends it towards cover point 6.5 Jerome Taylor to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Taylor runs it down off the open bat face towards third man 6.5 Jerome Taylor to Brendan Taylor , wide , slides it down the leg-side , Taylor misses the clip , the keeper dives to his left and fields the ball 6.4 Jerome Taylor to Brendan Taylor , no run , short of length around off , Taylor defends it to the left of the bowler 6.3 Jerome Taylor to Brendan Taylor , no run , beautiful delivery from Jerome Taylor ! That was pretty close to the off stump as Brendan Taylor let go of it 6.2 Jerome Taylor to Brendan Taylor , no run , in the channel outside off , Taylor shoulders arms to it 6.1 Jerome Taylor to Brendan Taylor , no run , back of a length and coming back into the batsman , Taylor defends it , the ball drops into the off-side , wants a quick single but decides against it 5.6 J Holder to S Raza , no run , length delivery outside off , Raza drives it on the up and finds the man at cover 5.5 J Holder to S Raza , FOUR , short and punished ! Raza swivels on his back foot and pulls it hard towards deep mid-wicket , he did not get it off the middle of the bat but has managed to put it in the gap 5.4 J Holder to S Raza , FOUR , fantastic shot from Raza ! He is looking in good touch here. It was a short of length delivery from Holder , Raza hops inside the crease and punches it powerfully to the deep extra cover fence 5.3 J Holder to S Raza , no run , short of a good length and moving in , Raza stays inside the line and bunts it towards mid-off 5.2 J Holder to S Raza , no run , back of a length and coming back in a touch , Raza stays back and blocks it with a straight bat 5.1 J Holder to S Raza , no run , opens the face of the bat and knocks it behind point Brendan Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 4.6 Jerome Taylor to H Masakadza , out Lbw ! ! A very poor review by Zimbabwe ! The ball nips back in sharply as Masakadza goes for a swipe across the line , misses and is hit on the back leg. Hawk-Eye shows three reds. The impact was in line and the ball was going onto hit the middle stump. H Masakadza lbw b Jerome Taylor 5 ( 14 ) Jerome Taylor to H Masakadza , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Masakadza have been given out lbw. He has reviewed it. Does not look like a good review. Yes , that was crashing into middle. The on-field call stays ! Masakadza has to go ! 4.5 Jerome Taylor to S Raza , 1 run , gets forward and taps it to mid-off for a brisk single 4.4 Jerome Taylor to S Raza , FOUR , beautiful shot by Raza ! It was a fullish delivery around off , Raza gets forward and plays the lofted drive to send the ball racing to the long-off fence 4.3 Jerome Taylor to H Masakadza , 1 run , edged and just falls short of the first slip. It was a length delivery moving away from the batsman , Masakadza pushes at it , gets a thick outside edge and the ball just bounces in front of Gayle at first slip. Maybe , if the keeper had gone at it , he could have got the ball. The batsmen scamper through for a quick single as the throw comes in at the striker 's end 4.2 Jerome Taylor to H Masakadza , no run , full on middle and leg , Masakadza works it towards mid-on , finds the fielder there 4.1 Jerome Taylor to H Masakadza , no run , length delivery on off , Masakadza defends it back to the bowler 3.6 J Holder to S Raza , no run , back of a length and outside off , Raza punches it towards backward point , who moves to his right and fields the ball 3.5 J Holder to H Masakadza , 1 run , fullish on middle , Masakadza shuffles across and clips it to mid-wicket 3.4 J Holder to H Masakadza , no run , in the corridor outside off , Masakadza leaves it alone 3.3 J Holder to H Masakadza , no run , fullish and outside off , Masakadza covers the sticks and lets it go through 3.2 J Holder to S Raza , 1 run , back of a length around off , Raza defends it towards mid-off and scampers through for a brisk single 3.1 J Holder to S Raza , no run , length ball around off , Raza gets forward and pushes , the ball goes off the inside half towards mid-wicket 2.6 Jerome Taylor to H Masakadza , no run , length delivery on off , Masakadza gets forward and drives firmly , straight to the man at mid-off 2.5 Jerome Taylor to H Masakadza , no run , length ball coming into the batsman , Masakadza misses the flick and is hit on the pads. However , that was sliding down leg 2.4 Jerome Taylor to H Masakadza , no run , in the channel outside off , Masakadza goes for a booming drive and is beaten Players are back on the field. The rain has stopped but it is still dark. The match has been reduced to 48 overs and the target for Zimbabwe is 363 . 19 : 23 Local Time , 08 : 23 GMT , 13 : 53 IST : Some good news coming in - covers have been taken off . The rain has become heavier and the umpires have called the groundstaff to cover the pitch area. The West Indian players are a little reluctant to get off the field , but the umpires have made their decision. Let 's hope that it is only a small delay . 2.3 Jerome Taylor to H Masakadza , no run , back of a length around off , Masakadza bunts it towards cover point 2.2 Jerome Taylor to H Masakadza , no run , fullish and in the channel outside off , Masakadza shoulders arms to it 2.1 Jerome Taylor to H Masakadza , 2 runs , outside off , Masakadza gets forward to defend , the ball takes the outside edge and runs down towards third man for a couple 1.6 J Holder to S Raza , FOUR , length delivery around off , Raza just lifts it over extra cover and holds his pose for a while , good-looking shot that one ! 1.5 J Holder to H Masakadza , 1 run , nudges it off the pads to square leg to get off the mark Hamilton Masakadza , right handed bat , comes to the crease 1.4 J Holder to Chakabva , out Lbw ! ! Wicket for West Indies in the second over and that is a good review by skipper Jason Holder. It was a a length delivery coming back into the batsman , Chakabva was just pushing forward , misses and is rapped on the pads. Holder had no doubt he had got his man and reviewed after a brief discussion with his mates. He was right as Hawk-Eye showed that that ball was crashing into leg. Chakabva lbw b J Holder 2 ( 5 ) J Holder to Chakabva , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Loud appeal for lbw but the umpire is unmoved. However , Holder is convinced he has got Chakabva and has reviewed straightaway. The commentators on air thought that there was a big inside edge but replays show that the ball has missed the bat. There was a loud sound but there is no wood involved. Hawk-Eye shows that the impact was in line and the ball was hitting leg. The on-field decision is overturned ! 1.3 J Holder to S Raza , 1 run , opens the face of the bat and dabs it to third man 1.2 J Holder to S Raza , no run , on a good length and bit of a shape away. That , however , was closer to the off-stump , Raza covers the sticks and lets it go through 1.1 J Holder to S Raza , FOUR , fantastic shot from Raza ! It was full and wide from Holder , a bit of outswing on that one , Raza reaches out and slaps it square of the wicket for the first boundary Jason Holder , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Holder will share new ball duties with Taylor. Two slips for him as well.. . 0.6 Jerome Taylor to S Raza , 1 run , length ball on off , Raza gets a bit squared up , opens the bat face and runs it down towards third man 0.5 Jerome Taylor to Chakabva , leg byes , 1 run , fuller and around leg , Chakabva looks to clip , the ball goes off the pad behind square 0.5 Jerome Taylor to Chakabva , wide , slides it down leg , Chakabva misses the glance , the ball also clipped the thigh pad en route to the keeper 0.4 Jerome Taylor to Chakabva , no run , back of a length around off , Chakabva stays back and looks to defend , gets a bottom edge and luckily for the batsman , the ball bounces just wide of the off stump 0.3 Jerome Taylor to Chakabva , 2 runs , on a length and on the pads , Chakabva tucks it through backward square leg 0.2 Jerome Taylor to Chakabva , no run , fullish and coming back into the the batsman a touch , Chakabva pushes it back to the bowler 0.1 Jerome Taylor to S Raza , 1 run , fuller and angling in on off , Raza gets forward and drives it towards cover , where the fielder dives and parries the ball further S Raza and Chakabva are at the crease. S Raza is on strike. Jerome Taylor will open the attack Zimbabwe openers Raza and Chakabva are walking towards the middle. For how long can Zimbabwe survive under pressure ? We will know soon. Jerome Taylor will be opening the bowling with two slips in place. Here we go.. . Welcome back. The conditions are still overcast. Russell is signing autographs at the fence. Curtly Ambrose has some encouraging words for the West Indies players. They break up after a brief huddle and are now taking the field . @ rameshsrivats : 200s in ODIs - Indian , Indian , Indian , Indian , West Indian . @ cricketaakash : If this game was in B'lore Gayle would 've become the first batsman to score an ODI triple ton...club class bowling . @ rgcricket : Chris Gayle is the first player to score a... . 300 in Tests 200 in One-Day Internationals 100 in Twenty20 Internationals @ fwildecricket : Chris Gayle is an IPL Boss , has two Test triple centuries & an ODI double. Love him or hate him he 's a legend of the game . @ cricket_U : RECORD ALERT : This is highest ever team total in all the ODIs played in Australia , beating 368-5 by AUS vs SL at Sydney in 2006 . Here 's some tweets on Gayle 's stupendous innings : We have Chris Gayle 's interview transcribed word-by-word. Here it is. Gayle : " I 'm getting a bit of cramps now , I 'm tired , still have to field 50 overs so hopefully we can restrict them. Overall in the innings , struggled at the start , scary the first ball as well , come on - you ca n't be serious , I ca n't be out on the first ball. No , I need a chance and I get a break and I made the best use of it. I just said thank god and that 's all I did when I put my head on the sky. You know , it 's been a lot of pressure and the runs have n't been coming. This is the first time in my career , so many people wanted me to score runs and the messages keep coming in , on twitter on your cellphone and everything - this is the first time I have ever seen , so many people wanting Chris Gayle to perform so badly and in the end I 'm really glad , I gave them something actually to cheer about. It was slow at the start to be honest and it was keeping a bit low as well. You got to take the bull by its horns and try and play some shots and try and put some pressure back on them. And I did n't want to actually dig myself into a shell as well and just try and be aggressive out there and then eventually the field spread , took ones and twos , and when you want to pick it up as well then you can choose which bowler to target and get your runs. That 's how I actually played this innings and I 'm really happy in the end , but out on the last ball ( smiles ) . Sometimes a lot of people see you on the field and they do n't know what you are going through. Still struggling with the injuries and these sort of things. Got to push myself to try and get the preparation right. I have been restricted in that area as well. It 's been different and I 'm not getting any younger as well , age catching up on you as well and I have to cut down on the party as well. These sort of things I have to put in place and eventually get a performance out there , but overall I 'm really happy and like I said , let 's try and build on this as much as possible. The team can gain some momentum going into South Africa , which is another important game , but let 's finish it off and move ahead. Since the rule came in , to be honest with you - 4 players out I maybe score one half-century since that rule actually came out. Like I said it was a bit easy for batters to score more runs , but in the end like I said , if I get past a hundred , I definitely gon na make it a big one and I 'm happy to get my first double-century in ODI cricket. A lot of fans have tweeted about this since Rohit Sharma scored two double-hundreds , you know , Sehwag and those guys , everybody expected me to do it as well. I 'm glad I get a chance to do it and I did today. I 'm satisfied. " The Zimbabwe players looked dejected as they walked off the field. That is understandable considering the colossal total on the board. Also , the West Indian bowlers are in fabulous form , having mercilessly destroyed Pakistan in their previous game. All Zimbabwe can do is take it one ball at a time and concentrate on building partnerships. The match was under the threat of rain for the last one hour or so. But the slight drizzle was not heavy enough to take the players off the field. Let 's hope the rain stays away for the second innings. Join us back for the chase in a few minutes.. . The highlight of the innings was no doubt , the burly Chris Gayle , who became the only non-Indian batsman to get a double hundred in ODIs. This , by the way , is the fastest double ton in ODIs and also the highest individual score in World Cups. The intimidating Jamaican smashed 10 fours and 16 huge sixes thoroughly destroying Zimbabwe 's bowling attack. West Indies scored 152 runs in the last 10 overs to finish on this monstrous total. For Zimbabwe , except Sikandar Raza , all bowlers went for over 6 an over. The duo of Gayle and Samuels completely spoiled the figures of the remaining bowlers , who had enjoyed a decent run until the powerplay . The West Indian batsmen struggled initially to get bat on ball but eventually managed to steady the ship. Zimbabwe , who were able to keep them quiet in the middle overs , failed to sustain the momentum for long. Gayle brought up his fifty , subsequently also crossing 9000 ODI runs. He became only the second West Indian , after Brian Lara to achieve this landmark. Samuels , who looked streaky initially , got going once he went past his fifty as well. West Indies accelerated in the third over of the batting powerplay and never looked back since then. They scored 55 runs in the powerplay and kept hammering the bowlers ruthlessly from there on . West Indies finish on a mammoth 372 on the board , the fifth highest team total in World Cups. In fact , they have posted above 300 in all of their three games so far. The credit for this total goes to Chris Gayle and Marlon Samuels , who put up the highest partnership in ODI history for any wicket. At the start of the innings Zimbabwe were terrific , with Panyangara snaring the wicket of Dwayne Smith on the second ball of the innings. Chris Gayle then survived a close lbw review later in the same over . Gayle walks off the field amidst cheers from the crowd. He waves his bat towards the crowd , who applaud for the belligerent display they have been witness to today. You put him under too much pressure and this is how he responds. He was under fire from all quarters for his poor form coming into this game. His response was the fastest double ton in ODIs. It was just special to witness the knock. Even though there was a drizzle and strong breeze at the Manuka Oval , it was the Gayleforce that blew everyone away. Bow down to the champion from West Indies . 49.6 H Masakadza to Gayle , out Caught by Chigumbura ! ! Finally an outstanding innings comes to an end. All the Zimbabwean players come upto Gayle and congratulate him for his breathtaking batting today. What a knock it has been. Coming back to the ball , it was fuller and outside off , Gayle goes down on one knee and looks to launch it into the crowd , he ends up slicing it very high in the air. Chigu runs forward from point and takes a good low catch. Gayle c Chigumbura b H Masakadza 215 ( 147 ) [ 4s-10 6s-16 ] H Masakadza to Gayle , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Last ball coming up 49.5 H Masakadza to Samuels , 1 run , fullish outside off , Samuels drives hard and finds sweeper cover at the fence , only a single Hamilton Masakadza [ 6.0-0-38-0 ] is back into the attack 49.5 Chatara to Gayle , no ball , 1 run , ohh dear , another high full toss and he 's off the attack , Gayle pulls it towards the deep mid-wicket region and gives the strike back to Samuels , that was just poor , poor bowling from Chatara 49.5 Chatara to Gayle , no ball , 2 runs , too high a full toss from Chatara , Gayle slices it high in the air and the batsmen take a couple as the ball rolls away towards long-off , umpire Ian Gould calls it a no-ball because it was over waist high , first warning from the umpire as well 49.4 Chatara to Gayle , 2 runs , fuller in length and outside off , Samuels lofts the drive inside-out over cover , the fielder from deep extra cover runs to his left , slides and keeps the batsmen down to a couple 49.3 Chatara to Samuels , 1 run , gets this one down in the blockhole , Samuels digs it out to long-on and gives the strike back to Gayle 49.2 Chatara to Samuels , SIX , mammoth ! Samuels is having a party now , it was dragged short and wide outside off , Samuels pulls it over the deep mid-wicket fence for another six 49.1 Chatara to Gayle , 1 run , banged in short and outside off , Gayle mistimes the pull towards long-on 48.6 Panyangara to Samuels , SIX , great shot to end the over , it was full outside off , Samuels gets under it and smashes it over the long-off fence for another maximum , his second of the over and the innings as well 48.5 Panyangara to Samuels , 2 runs , fullish outside off , Samuels drills it over mid-off , the fielder from long-on runs across and dives to stop the ball , saves two for his team , 350 of the partnership also comes up 48.4 Panyangara to Samuels , FOUR , poor fielding effort at wide long-off , it was fuller and outside off , Samuels lofts it inside-out over cover , Ervine was charging towards the ball from the boundary and the ball bounces in front of him , it runs away to the fence as well , poor effort from him 48.3 Panyangara to Samuels , no run , yorker length delivery wide outside off , Samuels goes after it and looks to dig it out , but ca n't lay bat onto it 48.2 Panyangara to Samuels , SIX , Samuels gets one over the rope , it was full and outside off , Samuels opens the face of the bat and slices the lofted drive over the sweeper cover fence for his first six of the innings 48.1 Panyangara to Samuels , FOUR , low full toss from Panyangara , Samuels smashes it past the bowler , the fielder at long-off runs to his left , dives but it all goes in vain as the ball crosses the fence , good try though 47.6 Chatara to Gayle , 2 runs , full outside off , Gayle lofts it past the bowler , the ball was running away to the fence , but the fielder at long-off ran across to his left , dived and saved a couple of runs there 47.5 Chatara to Samuels , 1 run , dropped ! It was a fullish delivery outside off , Samuels drills it uppishly and hard back at the bowler , who ca n't hold onto it , he parries it towards the long-off fielder and the batsmen take a single , the ball went very quickly towards him and it was a difficult chance 47.4 Chatara to Samuels , no run , takes the pace off this length delivery outside off as Samuels has a swing at it , he ca n't connect 47.3 Chatara to Samuels , no run , low full toss on the pad , Samuels gets hit on his thigh and falls over in pain , ca n't get through for a single as well 47.2 Chatara to Samuels , 2 runs , length delivery outside off , Samuels lofts it inside-out over covers , the batsmen take a couple as the boundary rider cuts it off in time 47.1 Chatara to Samuels , FOUR , Samuels gets to his ton , it was bowled on the pads , Samuels tickles it fine and the ball races away to the fence , it has been a little tough for Samuels , but he has given good support to Gayle , Samuels makes a cut-throat gesture after reaching his ton , his team-mates applaud and he waves his bat to the applause This is now the highest partnership in ODI World Cups 46.6 Panyangara to Samuels , 1 run , good ball from Panyangara , it was full and wide , Samuels jams out the drive towards deep extra cover , he can only take a single and will be on strike next over Free-hit coming up 46.6 Panyangara to Gayle , no ball , 1 run , high full toss wide outside off , Gayle slices it towards long-off , Panyangara has overstepped and will have to bowl another one 46.5 Panyangara to Samuels , 1 run , full and slightly wide outside off , Samuels drills the drive towards sweeper cover and gets off strike Comes round the wicket now 46.4 Panyangara to Gayle , 1 run , low full toss slightly wide outside off , Gayle has to reach out for it and drives it towards long-off Panyangara will have to bowl that one again as the ball comes off his hand when he was coming in to bowl 46.3 Panyangara to Samuels , 1 run , slower delivery and fuller in length , Samuels drives it towards the mid-off region for a single 46.3 Panyangara to Samuels , wide , way outside off from Panyangara , wide called 46.2 Panyangara to Samuels , no run , low full toss , Samuels punches it back to the bowler and Panyangara fields 46.1 Panyangara to Samuels , no run , driven back to the bowler Coming back to Gayle 's double ton , his team-mates cheer him on from the dug-out. Sammy was extremely happy and had a few words to say. This innings could further lift the spirit in the team. Meanwhile , Zimbabwean coach Dav Whatmore also claps for Gayle 's effort 46.1 Panyangara to Samuels , wide , down the leg-side , Samuels fails to glance it fine , wided by the umpire Tinashe Panyangara [ 7.0-0-52-1 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Chatara to Gayle , FOUR , drags his length back and Gayle latches onto it in a flash , he pulls it to the deep mid-wicket fence and the ball races away 45.5 Chatara to Gayle , FOUR , Gayle becomes the first non-Indian to score a double ton in ODIs , what a knock this has been , he chuckles as he takes his helmet off , hugs his mate Samuels and waves to the crowd as Chris Gayle chants are continuously heard. This has been special , it was a full toss outside off , Gayle drives it to the deep extra cover fence and reaches the landmark 45.4 Chatara to Samuels , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Samuels tucks it away off his pads towards mid-wicket , hands over the strike back to Gayle 45.3 Chatara to Gayle , 1 run , low full toss wide outside off , Gayle chases it and ends up knocking it towards cover , who moves to his left and stops the ball Chatara pulls out of his run-up as the field was still being shuffled around 45.2 Chatara to Gayle , SIX , 16th six for Gayle , that 's massive from him , it was short and at the batsman , Chatara took the pace off the ball and it did n't help his cause , he pulls it handsomely over the deep backward square leg fence with relative ease 45.1 Chatara to Samuels , 1 run , just short of a good length and on off , Samuels goes across and works it towards the vacant mid-on region , the batsmen take an easy single Tendai Chatara [ 7.0-0-33-0 ] is back into the attack 44.6 Sean Williams to Samuels , 1 run , comes down the track and drives it to long-on , 300 of the partnership also comes up 44.5 Sean Williams to Gayle , 1 run , quicker and fuller , Gayle looks to go hard , but gets an inside edge onto the boot and the ball rolls away into the off-side 44.4 Sean Williams to Gayle , SIX , this is ridiculous batting from Gayle , it was floated on off and middle from round the wicket , Gayle goes down on one knee and slog sweeps it over the deep mid-wicket fence , the ball carried 95 metres there , this is also now the highest score in a World Cup match 44.3 Sean Williams to Gayle , SIX , back-to-back sixes for the big man , it was full and down leg , Gayle picks it off his pads and puts it into the crowd behind square on the leg-side , super shot from Gayle 44.2 Sean Williams to Gayle , SIX , there 's no stopping Gayleforce or is there ? Gayle pulls this shortish delivery and gets it over the deep mid-wicket fence with ease 44.1 Sean Williams to Samuels , 1 run , dances down the track and eases this tossed up delivery to long-on 43.6 Kamungozi to Gayle , FOUR , this time he lofts this flighted delivery wide of long-on , the fielder had little distance to cover , but it still beat the fielder to the fence , 21 runs came off that over 43.5 Kamungozi to Gayle , SIX , drifting on the pads , Gayle clears his front leg and just smashes it behind square off his pads , the ball goes over the fence and Gayle is on fire here 43.4 Kamungozi to Gayle , FOUR , another shortish delivery from Kamungozi , this is poor bowling to a man who is batting on 157 , he pulls it hard and towards the deep square leg fence , where the deep mid-wicket fielder runs to his left , puts in the dive , but ca n't cut it off 43.3 Kamungozi to Gayle , SIX , drags his length short and Gayle dispatches him for a maximum , this is now the highest score for Gayle , he pulled it magnificently over the deep mid-wicket fence and collects six 43.2 Kamungozi to Samuels , 1 run , floated up around off , Samuels drives it to long-off , this is now the highest partnership for West Indies in ODI , that too for any wicket 43.1 Kamungozi to Samuels , no run , flatter on middle , Samuels makes room and punches hard , picks out cover to perfection Tafadzwa Kamungozi [ 2.0-0-16-0 ] is back into the attack 42.6 Sean Williams to Samuels , 1 run , gives the charge to a flatter delivery , eases it into the off-side and he will keep the strike 42.5 Sean Williams to Gayle , 1 run , another slog sweep after coming down the track and this time he finds the fielder at deep square leg , only a single 42.4 Sean Williams to Gayle , 2 runs , 150 for Gayle , the fourth time in his ODI career that he has reached this figure , it was flighted on the stumps , Gayle goes for another slog sweep but this time he mistimes it , the fielder from deep mid-wicket runs to his left , dives and keeps the batsmen down to a couple 42.3 Sean Williams to Samuels , 1 run , looks to come down the track but decides against it as Williams fires this one , pushes to extra cover for a single 42.2 Sean Williams to Gayle , 1 run , flighted delivery on the stumps , Gayle goes down on one knee and slog sweeps it towards deep square leg Over the wicket to Gayle 42.1 Sean Williams to Samuels , 1 run , takes a step forward and eases this tossed up delivery on off to long-off Sean Williams [ 3.0-0-20-0 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Chigumbura to Gayle , SIX , mammoth six ! It was on a good length and was at the batsman , who had backed away. Gayle clears his front leg and launches it over the deep mid-wicket fence , 250 partnership comes up between these two , this is also the second highest partnership for West Indies in ODIs 41.5 Chigumbura to Gayle , no run , good ball finally from Chigu as he gets this one right in the blockhole , Gayle squeezes it out 41.5 Chigumbura to Gayle , wide , fifth wide of the over , another one down the leg-side , wided by the umpire 41.4 Chigumbura to Samuels , 1 run , on a good length and around off , Samuels drives it to deep extra cover and gets to the other end 41.3 Chigumbura to Samuels , 2 runs , dishes out a low full toss in trying to bowl a yorker , Samuels helps it wide of long-on and comes back for the second easily 41.3 Chigumbura to Samuels , wide , fourth wide in a row from Chigu , this time it is way outside off , do n't know what he is trying to do here 41.3 Chigumbura to Samuels , wide , another one down leg , Samuels fails to glance it fine , the umpire signals a wide Comes round the wicket now 41.3 Chigumbura to Samuels , wide , this is poor bowling from the Zimbabwean captain as he bowls another one down leg , easy call again for the umpire 41.3 Chigumbura to Samuels , wide , splays this one down leg , wided by the umpire 41.2 Chigumbura to Samuels , no run , full toss from Chigu , Samuels must be disappointed with himself for not putting it away , he ends up knocking it straight to mid-off , ca n't even get a single there 41.1 Chigumbura to Samuels , FOUR , another boundary from Samuels , looks like he is getting his timing right now , it was a back of a length delivery outside off , Samuels just flat-bats it over deep extra cover for another boundary Elton Chigumbura [ 6.0-0-26-0 ] is back into the attack Gayle is currently on 141 right now. With 9 overs to go , can he get a double hundred here ? If he gets it , he will be the only non-Indian batsman to ever achieve this feat 40.6 H Masakadza to Gayle , SIX , great shot from Gayle ! It was fuller and outside off , Gayle had enough room to free his arms and he launches it straight down the ground , this is great batting from Gayle as he gets it over the rope with ease 40.5 H Masakadza to Samuels , 1 run , another one that 's slightly wide outside off , Samuels slaps it square of the wicket , but this time the fielder in the deep cuts it off 40.4 H Masakadza to Samuels , FOUR , Samuels is also getting into the groove now , it was short and wide outside off , Samuels had enough room to just cut it to the deep backward point fence , the ball runs away to the fence in a flash 40.3 H Masakadza to Samuels , no run , on a good length and around off , Samuels looks to drive hard , but gets an inside edge that rolls away to his left 40.2 H Masakadza to Gayle , 1 run , fuller in length and slightly wide outside off , Gayle reaches out and drives it towards long-off , he was looking for the second run , but it was n't there for the taking 40.1 H Masakadza to Samuels , 1 run , slightly wide outside off , Samuels cuts it towards sweeper cover and gives the strike back to Gayle Hamilton Masakadza [ 5.0-0-25-0 ] is back into the attack The batting powerplay yielded 55 runs for the West Indies. 3 fours and 3 sixes were hit during that period . 39.6 Panyangara to Gayle , SIX , another maximum for Gayleforce ! It was another short delivery from Panyangara , Gayle just smashes it over the deep mid-wicket fence 39.5 Panyangara to Samuels , 1 run , shortish and slightly wide outside off , it was the slower one as well , Samuels looks to cut hard , but mistimes it towards point for another single 39.4 Panyangara to Gayle , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Gayle ca n't get it away past extra cover , but the batsmen still take a single 39.3 Panyangara to Gayle , no run , slower bouncer from Gayle , Gayle looks to pull but is early into the shot and misses it 39.3 Panyangara to Gayle , wide , down the leg-side and the umpire calls it a wide , Gayle was looking to make room there and that 's why he put the bowler off his line 39.2 Panyangara to Gayle , 2 runs , slices this back of a length delivery outside off towards sweeper cover , another couple for Gayle 39.1 Panyangara to Gayle , 2 runs , free-hit ball and Gayle ca n't get it over the rope , it was slightly wide outside off , Gayle drags the slog towards deep mid-wicket and the batsmen can only take two , he was caught again this time , but no harm done 39.1 Panyangara to Gayle , no ball , 2 runs , ohh dear ! Chris Gayle has been caught off a no-ball , it was full and outside outside off , Gayle slogs hard , but picks out Raza at long-on , who dives to his left and takes the catch , Raza did n't hear the umpire 's call and was happy thinking he had caught his man 39.1 Panyangara to Gayle , wide , was it too high ? The umpire certainly thinks so. It was banged in short , Gayle backs away and looks to flat-bat it hard , but ca n't connect , wided by the umpire 38.6 Chatara to Samuels , 2 runs , full toss from Chatara to end the over , Samuels helps it past mid-wicket and the batsmen come back for the second 38.5 Chatara to Samuels , no run , slightly wide outside off , Samuels backs away and cuts it straight to backward point 38.4 Chatara to Gayle , byes , 1 run , good slower ball bouncer from Chatara , Gayle ducks under it , but Taylor does n't collect it cleanly , the batsmen sneak in a bye , Taylor should have done better there , the fielders need to support their bowlers 38.3 Chatara to Samuels , 1 run , 200 of the partnership comes up for these two , it was the short delivery from Chatara , Samuels just swats it away to long-on and gets to the other end 38.2 Chatara to Samuels , FOUR , Samuels backs away once again and Chatara follows him with a back of a length delivery , Samuels looks to cut it , but gets an inside edge that runs away fine and beats the chase from the short fine leg fielder 38.1 Chatara to Samuels , no run , slower delivery from Chatara , Samuels backs away and looks to run it down towards third man , but picks out backward point instead 37.6 Panyangara to Samuels , 1 run , length delivery around off , Samuels pushes it past the bowler and he will keep the strike , 18 runs came off that over 37.5 Panyangara to Samuels , FOUR , slightly shortish and wide outside off , Samuels hangs back and cuts it to the deep backward point fence for a boundary 37.4 Panyangara to Gayle , 1 run , almost a great catch from the bowler himself , it was the slower one from Panyangara , Gayle was looking to go hard at it and was completely beaten by the pace , ends up chipping it towards the mid-wicket region , where the bowler ran across , dived but the ball just about evades him , good effort though as he had to make a lot of ground there 37.3 Panyangara to Gayle , SIX , this this he connects well and gets it over the rope , it was fuller once again , Gayle gets under it and slogs it over the deep mid-wicket fence 37.2 Panyangara to Gayle , 2 runs , in the airrr but safe , it was fuller and on the stumps , Gayle looks to loft it for a maximum , but mistimes it completely , the fielder at long-on was interested for sometime , but the ball falls short of him as well , Gayle survies and takes two for that shot 37.1 Panyangara to Gayle , FOUR , Gayle starts off with a boundary after the drinks break , it was short and angled across off , it was a poor delivery from Panyangara , Gayle clubs it to the deep square leg fence for a boundary Tinashe Panyangara [ 5.0-0-17-1 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now. The West Indies have done well to keep wickets in hand , but their scoring rate has n't been good. Chris Gayle got to his hundred and is threatening to cut loose from here on. Samuels reached his fifty as well , but has looked uncomfortable on a number of occasions. It is time for the West Indies to go hard and get some big overs in. With rain looming over the Manuka Oval , D/L/S method might come into play later on. So , the West Indies will have to keep that in mind as well . 36.6 Chatara to Samuels , no run , gives himself room once again , looks to run it down to third man , but ends up guiding it straight to backward point 36.5 Chatara to Samuels , no run , slower delivery that was banged in short and at the batsman , Samuels was early into the pull and wears it on his shoulder , he ca n't get off strike as well even though the ball rolled away to the right of the keeper 36.4 Chatara to Samuels , no run , good change of pace from Chatara , it was shortish and wide outside off , Samuels looks to cut hard , but gets a bottom edge that goes on the bounce to the keeper 36.3 Chatara to Samuels , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Samuels backs away and punches hard , but picks out cover 36.2 Chatara to Gayle , 1 run , angles this one across the batsman , Gayle knocks it towards mid-on for another run 36.1 Chatara to Samuels , 1 run , slightly fuller and on off and middle , Samuels goes across slightly and works it past square leg for a single Tendai Chatara [ 5.0-0-24-0 ] is back into the attack 35.6 H Masakadza to Gayle , SIX , heaved away to the cow corner fence , it was on a fuller length and on the stumps , Gayle heaves it over the boundary with little effort , this was the 6th six of the innings for Gayle 35.5 H Masakadza to Samuels , 1 run , length delivery outside off , Samuels opens the face of the bat and dabs it to the right of point , the fielder misfields and the batsmen take an easy single at the end 35.4 H Masakadza to Gayle , 1 run , short and outside off , Gayle pulls it towards wide of long-on , where the fielder quickly runs across , collects and prevents the batsmen from taking the second run 35.3 H Masakadza to Gayle , no run , length delivery angled across off , Gayle pushes it to cover 35.2 H Masakadza to Samuels , 1 run , just short of a good length and around off , Samuels pushes it to point off the back foot , he was in two minds whether to go for the run or not , the batsmen finally go through with it as the fielder was a little deep 35.1 H Masakadza to Gayle , 1 run , Gayle gets to his 22nd ODI century with this single , it was back of a length and outside off , Gayle punches it to long-off , he takes off his helmet and waves his bat to the applause Time for the batting powerplay. Can West Indies launch from here ? Let 's find out. Gayle is on 99 Raza has finishes his spell. His figures : 10-1-45-0 . 34.6 S Raza to Samuels , no run , another quicker one from Raza , Samuels punches it to the left of the bowler , who quickly moves to his left and stops the ball , does n't allow the single, 34.5 S Raza to Samuels , no run , touch flatter from Raza , Samuels backs away and ends up punching it back to the bowler 34.4 S Raza to Gayle , 1 run , slowish on middle and leg , Gayle eases it down to long-on 34.3 S Raza to Gayle , no run , flighted delivery on middle and leg , Gayle tucks it away towards mid-wicket 34.2 S Raza to Samuels , 1 run , quicker one on the pads , Samuels works it behind square , he was a little late to get off the blocks , but makes it easily at the end 34.1 S Raza to Gayle , 1 run , floated up on middle , Gayle clips it towards long-on for a single 33.6 H Masakadza to Gayle , 1 run , slightly wide outside off and fullish in length , Gayle drives it to long-off and will keep the strike 33.5 H Masakadza to Samuels , 1 run , full and outside off , Samuels drives uppishly through the vacant mid-off region and gets to the other end 33.4 H Masakadza to Gayle , 1 run , bit straighter this time around , Gayle tucks it away behind square off his pads 33.3 H Masakadza to Gayle , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Gayle punches it towards cover , who moves to his left and fields the ball 33.2 H Masakadza to Gayle , no run , angles this one away outside off , Gayle opens the face of the bat and guides it towards point 33.1 H Masakadza to Samuels , 1 run , angles this one on off and middle , Samuels eases it down to long-on for an easy single 32.6 S Raza to Gayle , no run , floated up on the stumps , Gayle pushes it into the off-side , a maiden over from Raza 32.5 S Raza to Gayle , no run , in the blockhole this time , Gayle jams it out back to the bowler 32.4 S Raza to Gayle , no run , flighted delivery on off , Gayle defends off the front foot 32.3 S Raza to Gayle , no run , touch quicker from Raza , Gayle pushes it back to the bowler 32.2 S Raza to Gayle , no run , pushes this one towards point after opening the face of the bat 32.1 S Raza to Gayle , no run , darted on middle , Gayle pushes at it off the front foot , the ball rolls away into the off-side off the outside half of the bat , Gayle was looking for the single there , but the bowler ran across to his right quickly and prevented the single 31.6 H Masakadza to Samuels , no run , on a good length and angling in on off , Samuels defends it back towards the bowler 31.5 H Masakadza to Samuels , no run , full and slightly wide outside off , Samuels goes for the drive once again , but the ball goes past his blade 31.4 H Masakadza to Gayle , 1 run , drop-and-run single from Gayle as he pushes this length delivery around off in front of cover and sets off 31.3 H Masakadza to Samuels , 1 run , fuller just outside off , Samuels drives it towards sweeper cover off the front foot , it was a little uppish , but was in the gap 31.2 H Masakadza to Samuels , no run , on a good length and outside off , Samuels puts his front foot forward and looks to drive it hard , gets a thick inside edge onto the pad 31.1 H Masakadza to Samuels , 2 runs , shortish and wide outside off , Samuels cuts it past a diving backward point , the sweeper tidies up in the deep and the batsmen take a couple 30.6 S Raza to Gayle , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Gayle leans forward and defends it to cover 30.5 S Raza to Gayle , no run , flatter outside off , Gayle pushes it towards cover 30.4 S Raza to Samuels , 1 run , 26th ODI fifty for Samuels , it was on the pads , Samuels clips it through mid-wicket and gets to the other end 30.3 S Raza to Gayle , 1 run , drifting on the pads , Gayle works it past square leg for a single 30.2 S Raza to Gayle , 2 runs , slows this one outside off , Gayle was pushing at it , the ball turns away ever so slightly and takes the outside edge towards third man , the batsmen take two 30.1 S Raza to Samuels , 1 run , floated up on middle and leg , Samuels works it wide of long-on , the single also brings up the 150-run partnership between thse two 29.6 H Masakadza to Samuels , 1 run , shortens his length and bowls it slightly wide outside off , Samuels stays back and cuts it towards deep backward point 29.5 H Masakadza to Gayle , 1 run , another one that 's full and in the channel outside off , Gayle mistimes the drive towards long-off and takes the single 29.4 H Masakadza to Gayle , no run , fuller in length and just outside off , Gayle comes on the front foot and drives it towards cover , where the fielder dives to his left and stops the ball 29.3 H Masakadza to Samuels , 1 run , bowls this one slightly wide outside off , Samuels knocks it towards sweeper cover with laden feet 29.2 H Masakadza to Gayle , 1 run , slightly fuller and on off this time , Gayle eases it down to long-off 29.1 H Masakadza to Gayle , no run , on a good length and on middle stump line , Gayle pushes it to the left of the bowler , who moves across and fields There is a persistent drizzle at the ground. Umpire Davis and Gould look concerned about the ball. It is getting a bit slippery out there 28.6 S Raza to Gayle , 1 run , touch flatter and around off , Gayle punches it to long-off and will keep the strike 28.6 S Raza to Gayle , wide , another one down the leg-side , wided by the umpire 28.6 S Raza to Samuels , 2 wides , drifting down leg , Samuels fails to glance it fine and Taylor ca n't glove it cleanly either , the batsmen take an extra run on the wide 28.5 S Raza to Gayle , 1 run , floated up outside off , Gayle was looking to push at it , the ball goes off the outside half of the bat and rolls past the cover point region 28.4 S Raza to Gayle , 2 runs , flighted delivery on the stumps , Gayle drives it past the bowler , the batsmen take two before the fielder from the deep can cut it off 28.3 S Raza to Gayle , SIX , Chris Gayle goes downtown once again , it was floated up on middle and leg , Gayle just lofts it over the leaping long-on fielder and collects six 28.2 S Raza to Samuels , 1 run , drifting on the pads , Samuels works it behind square and gets to the other end 28.1 S Raza to Samuels , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Samuels goes back in the crease and punches it to cover 27.6 H Masakadza to Samuels , 1 run , another misfield and this time it 's the captain Chigu , it was on a good length and around off , Samuels punches it towards extra cover , where Chigu allows the ball to go through and the batsmen take a single 27.5 H Masakadza to Samuels , no run , opens the face of the bat and guides it towards backward point from the crease 27.4 H Masakadza to Samuels , no run , on a good length and on the stumps , Samuels punches it towards extra cover 27.3 H Masakadza to Gayle , 1 run , Gayle completes 9000 ODI runs with this single , he becomes the second West Indian after Brian Lara to do so. It was slightly fuller and angled across off , Gayle opens the face of the bat and pushes it square of the wicket 27.2 H Masakadza to Samuels , 1 run , slightly wide outside off , Samuels cuts it square of the wicket for a single 27.1 H Masakadza to Samuels , no run , on a good length and on off and middle , Samuels pushes it back towards the bowler , his bottom hand came off the bat as he pushed at it Hamilton Masakadza , right-arm medium , comes into the attack Another change in bowling as Masakadza replaces Kamungozi into the attack after he got hit for two sixes in his last over 26.6 S Raza to Samuels , 1 run , pushed through quicker from Raza , Samuels backs away and tucks it towards mid-wicket , where the fielder dives to his right , but ends up parrying it further away from him , the batsmen take an easy single at the end , Samuels will keep the strike 26.5 S Raza to Gayle , 1 run , floated up outside off , Gayle drives it to long-off 26.4 S Raza to Samuels , 1 run , tossed up on the stumps , Samuels knocks it back towards the bowler , who misfields yet again , the batsmen take a single as the ball rolls away into the on-side off his hands 26.3 S Raza to Samuels , 2 runs , flighted delivery outside off , Samuels comes on the front foot and drives it through the covers for a brace 26.2 S Raza to Gayle , 1 run , floated up outside off , Gayle looks to cuts and gets an inside edge that goes behind the wicket and beats the keeper as well , the batsmen take another run 26.1 S Raza to Samuels , 1 run , full toss from Samuels , Samuels drills it back towards the bowler , who ca n't field the ball and the batsmen take a single The groundstaff is ready to come on if the umpires give them the signal 25.6 Kamungozi to Gayle , no run , darted on the stumps , Gayle looks to work it into the on-side , but ca n't connect , wears it on his pad , but the ball pitched outside leg 25.5 Kamungozi to Gayle , SIX , back-to-back sixes for Gayle as he lofts this tossed up delivery straight down the ground , the ball just about carried over the rope , looks like the rain has made him accelerate a little 25.4 Kamungozi to Gayle , SIX , another maximum for Gayle as he goes down on one knee to this flighted delivery just outside off , he slog sweeps it over the deep mid-wicket fence for a six , did n't time it that well , but the ball still sailed over the rope 25.3 Kamungozi to Samuels , 1 run , floated up outside off , Samuels steps out of the crease and drives it wide of long-off , he was looking for the second run there but the fielder was quickly onto the ball 25.2 Kamungozi to Gayle , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Gayle drives it towards cover , where Raza misfields and allows the single 25.1 Kamungozi to Gayle , no run , shortish and slightly wide outside off , Gayle cuts it towards cover point 24.6 S Raza to Samuels , no run , backs away and punches it behind point , finds the fielder 24.5 S Raza to Gayle , 1 run , leans forward and drives it to long-on 24.4 S Raza to Samuels , 1 run , stays back and punches it to long-on 24.3 S Raza to Samuels , FOUR , fantastic shot from Samuels , excellent placement from him. He creates the width by making room to this shortish ball , exposes his stumps and cuts it to the deep extra cover fence 24.2 S Raza to Gayle , 1 run , outside off , Gayle punches it to long-off 24.1 S Raza to Gayle , no run , full around off , Gayle gets forward and drives it towards mid-off 23.6 Kamungozi to Samuels , no run , full and just outside off , Samuels drives it to cover 23.5 Kamungozi to Samuels , no run , comes down the track and pushes it back to the bowler , who deflects it onto the non-striker 's stumps 23.4 Kamungozi to Samuels , no run , gets forward and clips it towards mid-wicket 23.3 Kamungozi to Gayle , 1 run , stays on the back foot and punches it to long-off , to bring up the 100 partnership between these two 23.2 Kamungozi to Samuels , 1 run , shuffles across and glances it off the pads through backward square leg 23.1 Kamungozi to Samuels , no run , makes room and punches it straight to cover Tafadzwa Kamungozi , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack Spin from both ends as Kamungozi comes into the attack . 22.6 S Raza to Samuels , 1 run , skips forward and works it to long-on 22.5 S Raza to Samuels , no run , widish delivery this time , Samuels cuts it towards cover point 22.4 S Raza to Samuels , no run , comes down the track and works it towards mid-wicket once again 22.3 S Raza to Samuels , no run , shuffles across and clips it towards mid-wicket 22.2 S Raza to Samuels , no run , backs away and punches it towards cover 22.1 S Raza to Gayle , 1 run , gets forward and drives it to long-on 21.6 Chigumbura to Gayle , 1 run , length delivery on the pads , Gayle works it to long-on for a comfortable single 21.5 Chigumbura to Gayle , no run , length delivery on off , Gayle drives it off the front foot , straight to the fielder at mid-off 21.4 Chigumbura to Gayle , no run , shuffles across and clips it off the pads behind square on the on-side , he wants a single but is sent back by Samuels as the ball is fielded by short fine leg 21.3 Chigumbura to Gayle , no run , length delivery on middle and off , Gayle gets forward and pushes it to mid-off 21.2 Chigumbura to Gayle , no run , leans forward and defends to the left of the bowler , into the on-side The rain has got a touch heavier 21.1 Chigumbura to Gayle , no run , back of a length on middle , Gayle defends it towards mid-off 20.6 S Raza to Gayle , 1 run , full around off , Gayle gets forward and drives it to long-off 20.5 S Raza to Gayle , no run , comes on the front foot and defends it into the off-side , Raza moves across to his right and stops it 20.4 S Raza to Samuels , 1 run , comes down the track and works it to long-on 20.3 S Raza to Samuels , no run , walks forward and pushes it back to the bowler 20.2 S Raza to Samuels , no run , slides it down leg again , the ball takes the pad and rolls behind square 20.2 S Raza to Samuels , wide , strays it down leg , Samuels misses the glance 20.1 S Raza to Samuels , no run , full on middle , Samuels jams it back to the bowler 19.6 Chigumbura to Samuels , 1 run , fullish and outside off , Samuels presses on the front foot and drives it to sweeper cover , finds the fielder It has started to drizzle slightly now 19.5 Chigumbura to Samuels , no run , length delivery coming back in a touch , Samuels defends it into the off-side 19.4 Chigumbura to Samuels , no run , well directed bumper from Chigumbura ! Samuels is forced to sway away and let it go through 19.3 Chigumbura to Gayle , 1 run , length delivery around off , Gayle drives it to mid-off for a quick single 19.2 Chigumbura to Gayle , FOUR , good use of the feet by Gayle. Chigumbura slides it down leg , Gayle just leans forward a touch and tickles it off the pads to the fine leg fence 19.1 Chigumbura to Gayle , no run , defends it with a straight bat back to the bowler 18.6 S Raza to Samuels , no run , gets forward and pushes it towards point 18.5 S Raza to Gayle , 1 run , stays on the back foot and punches it to sweeper cover 18.4 S Raza to Gayle , no run , punches it back to the bowler 18.3 S Raza to Samuels , 1 run , gets forward and drives it to long-off 18.2 S Raza to Samuels , no run , gets back and looks to work into the on-side , the ball hits him on the pad and drops down , that was sliding down It is overcast and lights are on at the Manuka Oval 18.1 S Raza to Gayle , 1 run , full around off , Gayle softly drives it to extra cover , it was misfield and the batsmen scampered through for a single 17.6 Chigumbura to Samuels , no run , full on middle and off , Samuels pushes it towards mid-on 17.5 Chigumbura to Gayle , 1 run , back of a length outside off , Gayle punches it to mid-off and sets off for a quick single , he gets to his 47th fifty in ODIs. He raises his bat and acknowledges the crowd , his teammates are applauding in the dug-out. This is his first fifty in nine innings 17.4 Chigumbura to Gayle , no run , on the pads , Gayle leans forward and wrists it to the left of the bowler 17.3 Chigumbura to Gayle , no run , on middle and leg , Gayle works it towards mid-wicket 17.2 Chigumbura to Gayle , 2 runs , length delivery around off , Gayle drills it past mid-off 17.1 Chigumbura to Gayle , SIX , what a shot by Gayle ! Chigumbura bowls it full around off , Gayle gets down on one knee and clubs it between extra cover and mid-off for his second maximum Free hit coming up ! 17.1 Chigumbura to Gayle , no ball , Chigumbura has overstepped ! Gayle works it into the leg-side Drinks are on the field now. Steady going from West Indies. They were in a bit of trouble earlier when they lost Smith on the second ball of the innings. Also , Gayle survived a close lbw review soon after. Since then , they have hung on and put up a 73-run stand for the second wicket . 16.6 S Raza to Samuels , no run , dropped by Chatara at backward point ! It was shortish from Raza , Samuels makes room and slices it behind point , where Chatara dives forward , gets his hands to the ball but is not able to hold on 16.6 S Raza to Samuels , wide , slides it around leg , Samuels misses the glance , Taylor behind the stumps whips off the bails without the ball in his hands. Samuels had his back foot firmly grounded , anyway. The ball had rolled towards short fine leg 16.5 S Raza to Samuels , no run , blocks it off the back foot to the right of the bowler 16.4 S Raza to Samuels , no run , on leg , Samuels tucks it to backward square leg 16.3 S Raza to Samuels , no run , works it off the pads behind square on the leg-side 16.2 S Raza to Samuels , no run , pushes it towards cover 16.1 S Raza to Samuels , no run , stays back and tucks it off the pads towards mid-wicket Sikandar Raza , right-arm medium , comes into the attack Raza replaces Williams and will be bowling round the wicket to Samuels 15.6 Chigumbura to Gayle , no run , on a length and angled across the left-hander , Gayle covers the sticks and lets it go through 15.5 Chigumbura to Gayle , 2 runs , comes forward and drills it straight down the ground for a couple 15.4 Chigumbura to Gayle , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Gayle punches it towards mid-off 15.3 Chigumbura to Gayle , no run , stays back and works it just in front of square 15.2 Chigumbura to Gayle , no run , looks to work it into the on-side off the back foot , the ball goes off the pad and rolls behind square on the off-side , that was too high 15.1 Chigumbura to Samuels , 1 run , length delivery outside off , Samuels runs it down towards third man 14.6 Sean Williams to Gayle , FOUR , Gayle spoils an otherwise tame over by Williams. He gets down on one knee and slog sweeps it hard to the deep square leg fence 14.5 Sean Williams to Samuels , 1 run , touch shortish on middle and off , Samuels gets back and pulls it to long-on 14.4 Sean Williams to Samuels , no run , presses forward and defends it into the leg-side 14.3 Sean Williams to Gayle , 1 run , full on middle and off , Gayle leans forward and drives it to long-on 14.2 Sean Williams to Samuels , 1 run , stays back and punches it softly towards long-off 14.1 Sean Williams to Gayle , 1 run , flighted around off , Gayle gets forward and drives it towards long-off , Williams dives to his right on the followthrough but is not able to get to the ball 13.6 Chigumbura to Samuels , 2 runs , shortish and outside off , Samuels looks to cut , the ball takes the outside edge and flies through the vacant slip region towards third man , the ball is fielded at the rope by Masakadza It has gone a bit dark at the Manuka Oval. Dark clouds are hovering over the ground 13.5 Chigumbura to Samuels , 2 runs , shuffles across and flicks it off his pads through backward square leg for a comfortable brace 13.4 Chigumbura to Samuels , no run , length delivery on middle , Samuels defends it to the right of the bowler , fielded by mid-on 13.3 Chigumbura to Samuels , no run , shaping away from the right-hander , Samuels pokes at it away from his body , the ball beats the outside edge of his bat and goes through 13.2 Chigumbura to Samuels , no run , fullish on middle and off , Samuels leans forward and works it towards mid-wicket 13.1 Chigumbura to Samuels , no run , full and outside off , left alone by Samuels 12.6 Sean Williams to Samuels , 1 run , widish delivery , Samuels cuts it to backward point , where Chatara dives and stops the ball 12.6 Sean Williams to Samuels , wide , turning down leg , Samuels looks to glance and misses 12.5 Sean Williams to Samuels , no run , shuffles across and turns it off the pads towards square leg 12.4 Sean Williams to Gayle , 1 run , gets forward and softly drives it to long-on 12.3 Sean Williams to Gayle , 2 runs , backs away and cuts this shortish ball to deep backward point , the fielder from cover point gives the ball a chase and keeps the batsmen to two 12.2 Sean Williams to Gayle , no run , fuller around off , Gayle gets forward and defends it to cover-point 12.1 Sean Williams to Samuels , 1 run , goes on the back foot and punches it to long-off for a comfortable single 11.6 Chigumbura to Gayle , no run , keeps it full and across the batsman once again , Gayle lets it go through 11.5 Chigumbura to Gayle , no run , full and angled across from the left-hander , left alone 11.4 Chigumbura to Samuels , 1 run , fullish and coming back into the batsman , Samuels clips it to square leg for a single 11.3 Chigumbura to Samuels , no run , full and just outside off , Samuels shuffles slightly and defends it back to the bowler 11.2 Chigumbura to Samuels , no run , full and in the corridor outside off , Samuels is not interested in playing those 11.2 Chigumbura to Samuels , wide , slides it down leg , Samuels misses the clip , easy call for the ump 11.1 Chigumbura to Samuels , no run , full on middle and off , Samuels drives with a straight bat , Chigu dives to his right and parries the ball towards mid-on Elton Chigumbura , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 10.6 Sean Williams to Gayle , SIX , good pick-up shot by Gayle ! He gets forward and hammers this delivery on middle over the long-on fence for a big maximum 10.5 Sean Williams to Gayle , no run , shortish and wide , Gayle cuts it straight to the fielder at cover-point 10.4 Sean Williams to Gayle , no run , full around off , Gayle looks to work into the on-side , the ball goes off the leading edge towards cover 10.3 Sean Williams to Gayle , no run , comes on the front foot and drives it into the off-side again 10.2 Sean Williams to Gayle , no run , flighted around off , Gayle drives it towards extra cover , where the fielder dives to his left and stops it 10.1 Sean Williams to Gayle , no run , full on off , Gayle gets forward and gently pats it down the track Sean Williams , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack Time for some spin . 9.6 Chatara to Samuels , no run , outside off , Samuels opens the face of the bat and taps it towards gully 9.5 Chatara to Samuels , FOUR , width on offer and Samuels makes full use of it. It was short of length and outside off , Samuels makes room and slaps it to the sweeper cover fence 9.4 Chatara to Samuels , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Samuels dabs it just behind point towards gully 9.3 Chatara to Samuels , no run , swing and a miss. It was moving away from the batsman , Samuels flays at it and is beaten 9.2 Chatara to Samuels , no run , short on middle , Samuels sways away from the line , ducks slightly and lets it go through 9.1 Chatara to Samuels , no run , length delivery coming back into the batsman , Samuels manages to bunt it towards cover 8.6 Panyangara to Gayle , no run , full and outside off , left alone by Gayle , Panyangara falls down in his followthrough 8.5 Panyangara to Gayle , no run , slower delivery from Panyangara , Gayle gets forward and drives it towards cover 8.4 Panyangara to Gayle , 2 runs , on middle and leg , Gayle pulls it towards deep mid-wicket , the fielder cuts off the ball near the rope 8.3 Panyangara to Gayle , no run , goes for a drive but is beaten and the ball goes through to the keeper 8.2 Panyangara to Gayle , 2 runs , slower ball on middle , Gayle comes down the track and whips it to deep mid-wicket for a brace 8.1 Panyangara to Gayle , no run , swing and a miss. Gayle swipes hard across the line but the length delivery holds its line and goes through to the keeper 7.6 Chatara to Gayle , 1 run , length delivery angling in on middle , Gayle looks to defend , the ball goes off the face of the bat towards square third man 7.5 Chatara to Samuels , leg byes , 1 run , bowls this onto the pads , Samuels looks to work it across the line , the ball goes off the pad and rolls towards square leg 7.4 Chatara to Samuels , no run , around the off stump , Samuels defends it with an angled bat towards cover-point 7.3 Chatara to Samuels , no run , back of a length around off , Samuels defends it off the back foot 7.2 Chatara to Samuels , no run , length delivery outside off , Samuels bunts it towards point 7.1 Chatara to Samuels , no run , touch fuller and coming back in , Samuels shuffles across and turns it towards mid-wicket , he wanted a single but is sent back by Gayle as that went straight to the fielder 6.6 Panyangara to Gayle , no run , back of a length on middle and leg , Gayle stays back and defends to the right of the bowler , taking his bottom hand off the bat 6.5 Panyangara to Samuels , 1 run , full and outside off , Samuels gets forward and mistimes the drive to mid-off , where the fielder makes a fine stop 6.4 Panyangara to Samuels , no run , short of length and outside off , Samuels gets back and looks to cut but is beaten by the extra bounce , Panyangara falls in his followthrough , third time it has happened 6.3 Panyangara to Samuels , no run , back of a length around off , Samuels punches it to point 6.2 Panyangara to Gayle , 1 run , length on off , Gayle opens the face of the bat and dabs it wide of point 6.1 Panyangara to Gayle , no run , in that channel outside off , left alone by Gayle 5.6 Chatara to Gayle , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Gayle plays a controlled pull wide of mid-on 5.5 Chatara to Gayle , 2 runs , wide and far from Chigumbura , who was running to his right at mid-off. It was a length delivery around off , Gayle looks to hammer it through cover but slices it instead , the ball goes swirling between mid-off and extra cover , Chigu running back from mid-off tries desperately to get to the ball but it falls beyond his reach 5.4 Chatara to Gayle , FOUR , Gayle is turning on the heat now. It was a length delivery on middle , Gayle comes down the track , rolls his wrists and flicks it to the deep square leg fence 5.3 Chatara to Gayle , no run , length delivery on off , Gayle defends it towards point 5.2 Chatara to Gayle , no run , back of a length around off , Gayle looks to drive it into the off-side , the ball goes off the inside half towards mid-on 5.1 Chatara to Gayle , FOUR , width on offer and Gayle has cracked that into the off-side. Gayle makes room to this back of a length delivery and cuts it powerfully past cover for another boundary 4.6 Panyangara to Samuels , no run , length delivery outside off , Samuels knocks it behind point 4.5 Panyangara to Samuels , FOUR , full on off , draws Samuels on the front foot , the batsman handsomely drives it past the bowler towards the long-off fence , Panyangara dives to his left but the ball evades him and races away 4.4 Panyangara to Samuels , no run , Panyangara is getting some good movement here ! The ball moves back in sharply from a length , Samuels looks to drive away from the body , the ball beats the inside edge of his bat and goes through to the keeper 4.3 Panyangara to Samuels , no run , length delivery outside off , Samuels gets forward and drives it softly towards point 4.2 Panyangara to Samuels , no run , coming back into the batsman once again , Samuels misses as he looks to work it across the line , the ball hits him on the left thigh. That must have stung ! 4.1 Panyangara to Samuels , no run , another beauty from Panyangara ! This was a length ball nipping back in a touch , Samuels is beaten 3.6 Chatara to Gayle , no run , well fielded by Chigumbura at mid-off ! It was a full and angling on off , Gayle drives it with a straightish bat , Chigumbura dives to his left and makes a fine stop restricting the batsmen from taking a run 3.5 Chatara to Samuels , 1 run , on a length and outside off , Samuels guides it to backward point 3.4 Chatara to Samuels , no run , beautiful delivery by Chatara ! Samuels is pushed back into the crease with this short of length delivery coming back in. He looks to defend but is comprehensively beaten 3.3 Chatara to Gayle , 1 run , brings out the pull shot this time but mistimes it , swivels back and pulls the shortish ball towards deep backward square leg 3.2 Chatara to Gayle , FOUR , nicely done by Gayle ! He skips out , gets to the pitch of the ball and lofts it over the mid-on fielder for a boundary 3.1 Chatara to Gayle , no run , fuller and angling away from the left-hander , Gayle watches it closely and lets it go through 2.6 Panyangara to Samuels , FOUR , cracking shot from Samuels ! It was full and wide from Panyangara , Samuels reaches out and slaps it to the long-off fence for the first boundary. Panyangara fell in his followthrough 2.5 Panyangara to Samuels , no run , fullish around off , Samuels is half-forward and pushes it back to the bowler 2.4 Panyangara to Samuels , no run , on a length around off , Samuels drives it towards mid-off 2.3 Panyangara to Samuels , no run , on middle and leg , Samuels gently wrists it into the on-side 2.2 Panyangara to Samuels , no run , back of a length and angling on the pads , Samuels clips it towards short mid-wicket 2.1 Panyangara to Samuels , no run , back of a length and around off , Samuels defends it in front of square on the off-side Coming back to the lbw appeal - there were two sounds there. But it was the bat hitting the pad 1.6 Chatara to Gayle , no run , fullish and in the channel outside off , Gayle shoulders arms 1.5 Chatara to Gayle , no run , back of a length and coming back in a touch , Gayle comes down the track , misses the clip and the ball raps him on the pads and rolls into the off-side. Loud lbw appeal there but the ball was pitching outside leg 1.4 Chatara to Samuels , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Samuels dabs it towards third man 1.3 Chatara to Gayle , leg byes , 1 run , looks to work it across the line , the ball brushes the thigh pad and rolls behind square , where Taylor misfields it allowing the batsmen to scamper through for a quick single 1.2 Chatara to Samuels , 1 run , holds its line outside off , Samuels runs it down to third man 1.1 Chatara to Samuels , no run , pokes at this outswinger with laden feet , misses and the ball goes through to the keeper Tendai Chatara , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Panyangara to Gayle , 2 runs , leans forward and clips it off the pads towards deep mid-wicket , was in the air , but in the gap , over mid-wicket 0.5 Panyangara to Gayle , no run , full and outside off , Gayle looks to drive off the front foot and is beaten 0.4 Panyangara to Gayle , no run , Gayle should consider himself very very lucky ! It was a good length delivery from Panyangara that shapes back in sharply. Gayle looks to play across the line and is rapped on the pads. The impact was in line with the middle stump. However , Hawk-Eye reckons it was a touch high and was just clipping middle. Warne , on air , says that according to him it was banging straight into middle and Gayle should be thankful to be still out there An lbw appeal against Gayle now. The umpire is not interested. Zimbabwe have asked for a review. The ball nipped back in sharply and it looks like a close call. Nothing on Snicko. Will the decision be overturned ? Hawk-Eye shows that the ball was in line with the middle stump. It was just clipping middle and hence umpire 's call remains ! Gayle is safe ! Panyangara broke into a little gig after taking the wicket. He was very ecstatic and is congratulated by his teammates . 0.3 Panyangara to Samuels , 1 run , another one that keeps low and comes back in , Samuels gets forward and pokes , the ball takes the inside edge and rolls towards fine leg Marlon Samuels , right handed bat , comes to the crease 0.2 Panyangara to Dwayne Smith , out Bowled ! ! What a start for Zimbabwe ! They needed early wickets and have got one on the second ball of the game. Panyangara moved the first ball away from the batsman. This time , the ball holds its line after pitching on a length. Smith was listlessly pushing at it keeping a huge gap between the bat and the pad. The ball keeps low , sneaks in and crashes into the off stump. Dwayne Smith b Panyangara 0 ( 2 ) Panyangara to Dwayne Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 0.1 Panyangara to Dwayne Smith , no run , a bit of a swing there for Panyangara straightaway. It was a fullish and shaping away from the batsman , left alone by Smith Dwayne Smith and Gayle are at the crease. Dwayne Smith is on strike. Panyangara will open the attack Panyangara will start off with the new ball. Two slips to assist... . West Indian openers Dwayne Smith and Chris Gayle are now making their way to the middle. Gayle is just 79 runs away from 9000 runs in ODIs. He is yet to fire in the tournament. Will he cross the landmark today ? The Zimbabwe players are in a huddle. The skipper Elton Chigumbura is having a chat with the boys. Alright , they break up and are now taking their positions on the field . The teams are making there way out for the national anthems. The good thing is that the sun is out. It is suddenly very bright and sunny right now . Zimbabwe have faced West Indies five times in the World Cup but have not won any of the games. Can they rewrite history today ? Teams : Zimbabwe ( Playing XI ) : Sikandar Raza , Regis Chakabva , Hamilton Masakadza , Brendan Taylor ( w ) , Sean Williams , Craig Ervine , Stuart Matsikenyeri , Elton Chigumbura ( c ) , Tinashe Panyangara , Tendai Chatara , Tafadzwa Kamungozi West Indies ( Playing XI ) : Dwayne Smith , Chris Gayle , Jonathan Carter , Marlon Samuels , Denesh Ramdin ( w ) , Lendl Simmons , Darren Sammy , Andre Russell , Jason Holder ( c ) , Jerome Taylor , Nikita Miller West Indies have won the toss and have opted to bat Elton Chigumbura : " Yeah , he has brought a lot to the team , especially the team is fantastic at the moment ( when asked about coach Dav Whatmore 's contribution to the team ) . Hopefully we can carry on that form that we are in. We wanted to bat first but anyway we just have to play good cricket. Hopefully we can restrict them to a lower score and we can chase it down. Obviously , a good start is important to us. Hopefully we can take early wickets and put them under pressure. Not really , just have to control things that we can control ( when asked about the inclement weather ) . Hopefully we can play good cricket. Solomon Mire is out and Stuart Matsikenyeri is in. " Jason Holder : " That 's one thing we stress in our team meetings. It is all about being consistent. After the last game , just need to be consistent and keep moving forward. We will bat first. It seems to be a pretty good wicket. We played here before and seemed to have done well when we have batted. So hopefully we can put some runs on the board. The top four batters have started to set it up but have not carried on. We are just stressing on them to carry on. And we have the firepower in the middle and the end to finish. We hope today is the day they actually fire. I have full confidence in them ( when asked about the opening partnership ) . We have got two forced changes. Darren Bravo is out with a torn hamstring. Carter replaces him. Sulieman Benn misses out today with a sore back and Nikita Miller gets his opportunity. " Pitch Report : " The pitch looks very good. It is nice and dry. There is a bit of grass rolled in. Traditionally , it is a batting surface but intelligent bowling will do well here. The team winning the toss might want to bat first. But it does not really make a difference. It will stay consistent throughout , " reckon Pommie Mbangwa and Allan Border . For now , let us hope the rain stays away. We are just minutes away from the toss and team updates. Do n't go anywhere.. . Weather report : It rained all night and the conditions are still overcast in Canberra. Rain is expected to pay a visit later and it is quite humid as well . The West Indian camp is also not too worried about their batting line-up. Andre Russell believes in the team 's ability to post big scores. " Chris has been struggling and we are still scoring 300 , " Russell said after their victory against Pakistan. " I guess when his contribution comes , we 'll get somewhere close to 400 hopefully , " he added . Chris Gayle 's poor form was the talking point before this match. However , Zimbabwe are not taking him lightly. Hamilton Masakadza said in the pre-match conference that they do not consider Gayle as a diminished force. " He has n't really played that well , like you said , in the recent past , but that does n't make him any less of a player. I still think he 's a very good player , and I still think he 's their biggest threat , " said Masakadza . Team news : West Indies suffered another blow as one of their star batsmen , Darren Bravo , sustained a hamstring injury in the match aganst Pakistan. In his absence , Jonathan Carter is expected to come into the side. Ideally , Zimbabwe would like to play the same team. However , Chamu Chibhabha , who made a solid 64 against South Africa in their first fixture , might come back into the side in place of Sikandar Raza . Zimbabwe : They impressed everyone in the warm-up fixtures with strong performances against New Zealand and Sri Lanka. Continuing from where they left off , they did well in the first game against South Africa , reducing them to 83-4 at one stage. Although they could not sustain the momentum and allowed the opposition to post a mammoth total , their confident start with the bat earned them high praise. Against UAE in their second game , they were even better , both with the bat and ball , securing a comfortable 4-wicket victory . West Indies : Their first match was a forgettable affair with Ireland winning the game by 4 wickets. Despite putting up an excellent batting show and amassing 304 runs on the board , the bowlers failed miserably , allowing the Irish side to win with more than 4 overs to spare. They bounced back remarkably well in their next match against Pakistan , romping to a massive 150-run victory. This time the bowlers upped their reputation to annihilate the Pakistani top-order with their lethal bowling. They reduced the Asian team to 1 for 4 , with Jerome Taylor picking up the first three wickets . Let us have a look at how these teams have fared so far . 13 : 00 Local Time , 02 : 00 GMT , 07 : 30 IST : Normally a match between West Indies and Zimbabwe would be considered as a one-sided affair. However , the level of performances in this tournament so far has been so high that any definite assumptions can not be made. West Indies and Zimbabwe will face off today in the 15th game of the competition at the picturesque Manuka Oval. Both teams are entering this fixture on the back of a win and a loss each . Preview West Indies and Zimbabwe have demonstrated an ability to bounce back after a poor start in the tournament. West Indies started off their 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup campaign with a four-wicket loss to Ireland at Nelson , but bounced back in spectacular style by defeating Pakistan by 150 runs , their best win against the team from sub-continent in ODIs in terms of runs. On the other hand , Zimbabwe let South Africa off the hook at Hamilton and they were punished by David Miller and JP Duminy , who put on a world record fifth wicket stand of 256. They shook off the defeat and chased down 286 against a spirited UAE side in Nelson. Heading into 15th match of the tournament on Tuesday at the Manuka Oval in Canberra , both teams look even on paper due to their inconsistency but the pressure will be more on Zimbabwe as they aim to put up a better show against big teams . Venue : Manuka Oval , Canberra
