Graphs Who says that the games between the Associate nations ca n't be interesting ? Look at what happened today , it was a thrilling finish to say the least. Tomorrow , it 's a Pool A double-header coming your way. First up , it will be Afghanistan vs Scotland in Dunedin. The second game of the day is the battle between the Asian teams , Sri Lanka vs Bangladesh in Melbourne. Folks , many thanks for your company today. Join us tomorrow to follow the action. Until then , take care. See you ! Ian Bishop : @ Irelandcricket made it harder than it should have been but came back very well. Most thrilling game of the CWC 2015 so far. Well fought UAE Gautam Bhimani : Luck of the Irish. Skill of the Irish. Chase of the Irish . Ayaz Memon : Brave performance by UAE with bat and ball , but poor fielding cost them the match. Ireland 's march continues . Ramesh Srivats : # IREvsUAE Kevin O'Brien is hitting so much that this win will be called O'Brien Ke Win . Freddie Wilde : This is cricket. This is the World Cup. What a match. Are you watching @ ICC ? Let us have a look at some of the interesting tweets of today 's game . Porterfield : 'Well , it was very close than what we would have wanted , but you will take the win any day of the week. I could n't get going myself , but wickets in hand are always a big thing , especially if you have lads like ( Gary ) Wilson and Kev ( Kevin O'Brien ) , they are very good strikers of the ball and it makes it a bit easier. Keeping wickets in hand is a big thing in this format. The confidence is high within the squad. Obviously , we had a big break before this game and it 's nice to get a win here again. Fixtures start coming a bit thicker and faster. So , we just got to keep putting in the performances. We took early wickets upfront and managed to restrict them , but one key factor was the way we played from probably 30 overs out with the bat.' Tauqir : 'It was a decent batting effort by Shaiman ( Anwar ) , he played a superb knock. From 130/6 to 280 , it was a very , very good innings from Shaiman. The credit goes to him , it was a brilliant innings. Congratulations to both ( Anwar and Amjad Javed ) of them , they played superbly. We know they are very good batsmen , especially Shaiman , coming lower down the order. Initially upto 35 overs ( when asked if they initially bowled well ) , but later on in the second half of the innings , there was dew and the ball became slightly wet , so it was not helping the seamers. It was a very good batting wicket. They batted well and it went down to the wire.' Gary Wilson : 'I was delighted to get a few , I had n't had too many coming into the game. So , it 's nice to come back and make a good contribution. I was confident to be honest and told myself that it was my day. Luckily , it worked out. I have batted a lot with Kev ( Kevin O'Brien ) over the years , both at county and international level. We adapted quite well together. So , it was great to have him come in like that. Definitely ( when asked if Ireland can qualify for the quarterfinals ) , we may need 4 wins , but all we got to do is take each game as it comes.' Gary Wilson is the Man of the Match for his knock of 80 off 69 balls One has to feel for UAE though. They had pegged back Zimbabwe in their first game but lost the plot in the death overs. Even today , they had a grip over the match until the 40th over but Ireland took the game away from them in the last 10 overs. The Irish team has now won two in two games. They are currently placed third on the Pool B table. They will next face South Africa on March 3. Before that , UAE will lock horns with India coming Saturday . UAE put on a very spirited performance today. Their batters did not disappoint and after a middle-over slump , they managed to post a competitive 278. Their batting was led by the centurion Shaiman Anwar , who recorded the highest 7th-wicket stand in World Cups along with Amjad Javed. Their bowlers then put up a good show as the Irish team struggled initially to up their run-rate. Javed was the pick of the bowlers as he scalped three wickets. He was well supported by Naveed and Tauqir , who snared two each . After Ireland lost Balbirnie in the batting powerplay , Wilson and the younger O'Brien brother stepped on the gas. With Ireland requiring 95 off the last 10 overs , they scored 59 runs in the next 27 balls. Kevin O'Brien got to his 11th fifty ( off just 24 balls ) in the process but immediately ended up offering a simple catch to extra cover. The drama continued as Wilson survived a close lbw review in the 47th over. He continued playing his shots narrowing the equation to 12 in 16 balls. However , UAE bounced back into the game as Naveed picked up Wilson on 80 in the 48th over of the innings. A lot of close chances followed , but UAE proved to be unlucky. Dockrell and Cusack somehow managed to keep their cool and got Ireland over the finish line . The Irish side got off to a poor start with Stirling falling in the second over of the innings. Skipper Porterfield combined well with Ed Joyce to stabilize the innings for a while. However , Joyce looked streaky and survived a couple of close calls before Javed removed him on 37. Ireland lost two more wickets in a space of 25 runs and were reduced to 97/4 in the 26th over. That is when Gary Wilson came to their rescue. The right-hander played some excellent shots and formed crucial partnerships - first a 74-run fifth-wicket stand with Andrew Balbirnie and then a 72-run sixth-wicket stand with Kevin O'Brien . The players shake hands as they walk off the field. The Irish players greet Dockrell and Cusack with hugs and words of encouragement. They are all very chirpy right now 49.2 Naveed to Dockrell , 2 runs , Ireland win by 2 wickets ! What a dramatic finish at the end , Dockrell takes off his helmet and is jubilant. The crowd also goes berserk. Coming back to the ball , it was a back of a length delivery outside off , Dockrell just lifts it over extra-cover , the ball falls in no-man 's land even though the fielder from mid-off ran back to try and take it , the batsmen take an easy two and that 's all they need 49.1 Naveed to Cusack , 1 run , run-out chance missed ! It was full from Naveed , Cusack jams it out towards mid-off and sets off , the fielder at mid-off picks the ball up quickly and fires in the throw at the bowler 's end , Cusack dives , but it would have been out had that been a direct hit 3 runs needed off 6 balls 48.6 Amjad Javed to Dockrell , no run , a dot ball to finish the over , it was angling into the right-hander and going down leg , Dockrell fails to clip it into the on-side and the ball rolls away into the off-side off the pad , the batsmen ca n't go through for a leg bye as well 48.5 Amjad Javed to Dockrell , FOUR , good shot to take some pressure off , it was on a length and on middle , Dockrell backs away and lofts it inside-out over wide mid-off , the ball reaches the fence on the bounce , 3 needed off 7 balls 48.4 Amjad Javed to Cusack , 1 run , fuller outside off , Cusack drills it hard to the left of the bowler , who puts his hand out and half-stops the ball , the batsmen take the single as the ball rolled away towards the cover region , the fielder has a shy at the bowler 's end , but the batsman was well home 48.3 Amjad Javed to Cusack , 2 runs , low full toss on the stumps , Cusack mistimes the heave behind square , the fielder from mid-wicket runs across , slides but fumbles , allowing the batsmen to come back for the second easily 48.2 Amjad Javed to Cusack , no run , shortish and slightly wide outside off , Cusack looks to cut hard , but fails to make a connection 48.1 Amjad Javed to Cusack , no run , yorker on middle , Cusack drills it back towards the bowler , who dives to his right but fails to get a hand on it , the batsman at the bowler 's end was backing up too far and the ball hit the stumps. But luckily for the non-striker , the bowler never got a touch Ireland need 10 runs off 12 balls. Mid-off and mid-on are inside the ring . 47.6 Naveed to Cusack , 1 run , run-out chance missed ! It was a back of a length delivery on middle stump line , Cusack just turns it towards short mid-wicket and sets off for the single , Khurram Khan at short mid-wicket picks the ball up very quickly and fires in the throw at the non-striker 's end , the batsman dived , but he would have been short had that hit the stumps directly 47.5 Naveed to Dockrell , 1 run , was that a dropped chance ? No , it was n't as it did n't carry to the fielder. It was a back of a length delivery outside off , Dockrell cuts uppishly towards point , who dives forward and tries to take the catch but the ball bounces just short , the batsmen take a single as the ball rolls away behind point 47.4 Naveed to Dockrell , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Dockrell hangs back , opens the face of the bat and dabs it towards short third man George Dockrell , right handed bat , comes to the crease 47.3 Naveed to G Wilson , out Caught by Amjad Javed ! ! Drama at the Gabba. Wilson falls now and the game is heading towards a tight finish here. It was the slower delivery outside off , Wilson was looking to cut it late and past the fielder at short third man , he cuts uppishly and the fielder at short third man dives to his left and completes a great catch. This is getting very , very tight. UAE are back into it. G Wilson c Amjad Javed b Naveed 80 ( 69 ) [ 4s-9 ] Naveed to G Wilson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 47.2 Naveed to G Wilson , FOUR , back-to-back boundaries for Wilson , that was travelling at some pace and almost took the umpire 's head , it was fuller on the stumps , Wilson lofts it right at the umpire and the ball runs away to the fence 47.1 Naveed to G Wilson , FOUR , fuller in length and on off and middle , Wilson gets under it and lofts it over the mid-off fielder 's head and the ball runs away to the fence Alex Cusack , right handed bat , comes to the crease 20 runs needed off 18 balls. Wilson is the key here for Ireland . 46.6 Amjad Javed to J Mooney , out Caught by Amjad Ali ! ! Next ball Mooney falls , he was trying to be cheeky there. He kneels down and looks to scoop this fullish delivery over short fine leg , but ends up scooping it high in the air , the fielder at short fine leg goes back and takes a simple catch. Ireland are 7 down now. J Mooney c Amjad Ali b Amjad Javed 2 ( 6 ) Amjad Javed to J Mooney , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 46.5 Amjad Javed to G Wilson , leg byes , 1 run , it was a good length delivery on off and middle , Wilson was looking to scoop it over short fine , ca n't connect and wears it on the thigh , it was very close and it looked like a great review , but the on-field decision is upheld and Wilson is lucky to survive there UAE have decided to review an lbw decision. Wilson is the man in question. Javed 's front foot is fine. This looks very close. It hit him on the thigh. Ohh dear , the impact is in line , it was going on to hit middle and leg , but the ball was just clipping the top of the stumps reckons Hawk-Eye. Hence , the on-field decision stays ! That 's cruel ! 46.4 Amjad Javed to G Wilson , no run , gives the charge to this length delivery outside off , he looks to cut , but he was cramped for room there , ca n't connect and the keeper gloves it 46.3 Amjad Javed to J Mooney , 1 run , angles this one into the pads , Mooney clips it behind square and gives the strike back to Wilson 46.2 Amjad Javed to J Mooney , no run , fuller in length and outside off , Mooney has a swing at it , but the ball beats the outside edge once again Comes round the wicket to the left-hander 46.1 Amjad Javed to G Wilson , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Wilson chops it towards point for a quick single Ireland now need 23 off 24 balls 45.6 Naveed to G Wilson , 1 run , fuller and angling in on off and middle , Wilson clips it through the mid-wicket region for a single , he will keep the strike 45.5 Naveed to G Wilson , FOUR , Wilson is playing a gem of a knock here , it was fuller and around off , Wilson dances down the track and lofts it inside-out over cover , the ball runs away to the fence in no time , great use of the feet there 45.4 Naveed to J Mooney , 1 run , angles this one on the pads , Mooney just works it towards fine leg and gets to the other end 45.3 Naveed to G Wilson , 1 run , just short of a good length and on off , Wilson drops it in front of cover from the crease and gets to the other end 45.2 Naveed to G Wilson , 2 runs , short and wide outside off , Wilson cuts it over backward point and it 's good enough for a couple of runs 45.1 Naveed to G Wilson , FOUR , that 's a cute shot from Wilson , it was on a back of a length and on the stumps , Wilson was backing away and just opens the face of the bat at the last moment , gets it past the keeper , who was going to his left and was wrong-footed , the ball runs away to the fence in no time Mohammad Naveed [ 7.0-1-39-1 ] is back into the attack Ireland need 36 from 30 balls 44.6 Amjad Javed to J Mooney , no run , another peach from Javed , Mooney was feeling for it outside off , the ball comes back with the angle and goes past the blade , good ball to end the over 44.5 Amjad Javed to J Mooney , no run , on a good length and outside off , Mooney was looking to force it through the off-side off the front foot , the ball goes past the outside edge Comes round the wicket John Mooney , left handed bat , comes to the crease 44.4 Amjad Javed to K O'Brien , out Caught by Naveed ! ! O'Brien falls against the run of play. But , he has given his team good momentum here. It was the slower shortish delivery outside off , O'Brien was surprised by the lack of pace , he was looking to loft it over covers , but ends up spooning it to the man at extra cover. Nevertheless , he has played a blinder here. K O'Brien c Naveed b Amjad Javed 50 ( 25 ) [ 4s-8 6s-2 ] Amjad Javed to K O'Brien , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 44.3 Amjad Javed to K O'Brien , SIX , what a way to reach his 11th ODI fifty , it was another mammoth hit from the big man , he just lifts this length delivery over the long-off fence with sheer ease , it was all power from him , the fielder at long-off could only watch it sail over him 44.2 Amjad Javed to K O'Brien , no run , slower , fuller and following the batsman , who was backing away , the batsman mistimes the heave towards mid-wicket 44.1 Amjad Javed to K O'Brien , SIX , humongous ! It was the good length delivery on middle and leg , O'Brien backs away a touch , gets under it and launches it up and over the long-on fence , the ball went quite far in the stands 43.6 Rohan Mustafa to G Wilson , FOUR , another boundary to end the over , it was floated up on the stumps , Wilson dances down the track and plays the pick up short towards the cow corner fence , the fielder from long-on runs across , dives but fails to prevent the ball from reaching the fence 43.5 Rohan Mustafa to K O'Brien , 1 run , steps out of the crease and almost yorks himself , did well to drill it out to long-off for a single 43.4 Rohan Mustafa to G Wilson , 1 run , gives the charge and works this flighted delivery to deep mid-wicket 43.3 Rohan Mustafa to K O'Brien , 1 run , down the leg-side , O'Brien tries to paddle it fine , but mistimes it to short fine leg 43.2 Rohan Mustafa to K O'Brien , FOUR , super shot ! It was floated up from round the wicket , O'Brien backs away and just lofts it inside-out over cover , the ball runs away to the fence in no time 43.1 Rohan Mustafa to G Wilson , 1 run , employs the reverse sweep and gets it to the right of backward point , only a single as he did n't time it that well Rohan Mustafa [ 8.0-0-33-0 ] is back into the attack Captain Tauqir is back on the field. He is rallying his troops around the park and Mustafa comes back into the attack 42.6 Amjad Javed to K O'Brien , no run , backs away and Javed follows him once again , he was looking to work it through the on-side , but the ball goes through the gap between his legs , ca n't be called a wide and that 's the over 42.5 Amjad Javed to K O'Brien , no run , slower one on leg , O'Brien was looking to nurdle it fine , but wears it on the pad , the ball rolled behind the wicket and there was a stifled appeal from the bowler too. The ball was however going down leg 42.4 Amjad Javed to K O'Brien , FOUR , O'Brien backs away a touch and Javed follows him with a short one , he pulls it magnificently to the deep backward square leg fence , two bounces and over the rope 42.3 Amjad Javed to G Wilson , 1 run , low full toss from Javed , Wilson helps it towards extra cover for a single Wilson is down and looks like he is struggling with cramps. The physio is out there. Looks like he is fine now and we are ready to go again 42.2 Amjad Javed to K O'Brien , byes , 3 runs , what has happened to UAE 's fielding ? This time the keeper costs them three , it was slower and on a good length , O'Brien backs away and looks to slog it through the on-side , he ca n't connect and the ball goes past the leg stump and the keeper ca n't glove it cleanly , three byes for the Irish 42.1 Amjad Javed to K O'Brien , FOUR , ohh dear , will this dropped catch cost UAE the game ? It was fuller and on middle stump line , O'Brien goes hard and lofts it high in the air , Nasir Aziz , the substitute fielder at long-off gets under it , but he ca n't hold onto it , to make matters worse , he ends up parrying it to the fence Amjad Javed [ 6.0-0-30-1 ] is back into the attack Ireland need 72 off 48 balls Captain Tauqir is off the field. Before leaving , he gave some instructions to Amjad Javed , who is coming onto bowl. Khurram Khan will take over in his absence 41.6 Karate to K O'Brien , 1 run , slightly shortish and little wide outside off , O'Brien cuts it late towards backward point , the batsmen cross over 41.5 Karate to K O'Brien , 2 runs , fuller in length and outside off , O'Brien drives and drives it hard wide of long-off , gets back for the second easily 41.4 Karate to K O'Brien , FOUR , back-to-back boundaries for O'Brien , it was a full toss angling down leg , O'Brien just helps it over the short fine leg fielder , the ball runs away to the fence in a flash , this is great batting from the younger O'Brien brother 41.3 Karate to K O'Brien , FOUR , great shot from O'Brien ! He backed away and manufactured the width for himself , he just cracks it over the infield and the ball runs away to the sweeper cover fence 41.2 Karate to G Wilson , 1 run , on a good length and outside off , Wilson slog sweeps it in the air towards deep square leg , Wilson was halfway down the track for the second run there , but O'Brien was n't even looking 41.2 Karate to G Wilson , wide , bowls this one down leg , Wilson wanted to sweep it very fine , but ca n't connect , wided by the umpire 41.1 Karate to G Wilson , no run , another short ball from Karate , Wilson mistimes the pull to mid-wicket 40.6 Naveed to K O'Brien , no run , too full from Naveed , O'Brien drags it towards mid-wicket , Wilson wanted the single , but O'Brien was not interested 40.6 Naveed to K O'Brien , no ball , ohh dear ! This time it is definitely a no-ball , that was a beamer and life threatening , O'Brien just about manages to get his bat on that and saves his face , the umpire gives a warning straightaway , O'Brien 's bat is also broken and he will need a replacement 40.5 Naveed to K O'Brien , no run , full toss from Naveed , O'Brien should have put that away , but he can only picks out cover on the off-side , he looks at the square leg umpire to check whether it was a no-ball , but the umpire said it was below the waist The substitute fielder Saqlain needs another substitute as he has done something to his leg. The physio was checking up on him , but he ca n't continue further. The substitute is being substituted here . 40.4 Naveed to K O'Brien , FOUR , full and around off , O'Brien drills the drive back towards the bowler , who tries to stop the ball after bending down in his followthrough , but he fails to stop it as the ball was travelling there , good shot from O'Brien 40.3 Naveed to K O'Brien , FOUR , angles this one on middle and leg , O'Brien mistimes the heave wide of mid-on , the ball however had enough legs to reach the fence , that 's the power of this man 40.2 Naveed to G Wilson , leg byes , 1 run , did he get some bat on that ? No , he did n't. Wilson puts his front foot outside off and tries to play the scoop , ca n't connect , the ball rolls away behind square and the batsmen sneak in a leg bye , there was an appeal , but that can never be given out 40.1 Naveed to G Wilson , no run , fuller and angling in on middle , Wilson drives it to mid-on and shouts a loud 'no ' for the single The batting powerplay yielded 33/1 for Ireland 39.6 Karate to G Wilson , 1 run , angling in towards the batsman , who had moved away from the stumps , eased down to long-on and Wilson will keep the strike 39.5 Karate to G Wilson , 2 runs , 8th ODI fifty for Wilson as he works this fullish delivery wide of long-on , the batsmen come back for the second easily 39.4 Karate to K O'Brien , 1 run , mistimes the loft towards long-on and the batsmen take a single 39.3 Karate to K O'Brien , no run , O'Brien goes leg-side of this slowish delivery and tries to force it through the off-side , he ca n't connect and wears it on the pad , the ball was however going down leg by a long , long way 39.2 Karate to G Wilson , 1 run , bowls this one on a fuller length , Wilson backs away a touch and drills it past the non-striker for a single , it was a little uppish , but there was no way the bowler could have reached it 39.1 Karate to G Wilson , FOUR , poor delivery from Karate , it was short and little wide outside off , Wilson hangs back and cuts it to the deep backward point fence , great shot that as the fielders on the off-side were inside the circle 38.6 Naveed to K O'Brien , FOUR , banged in short and directed at the batsman , O'Brien stays back , lifts his front leg and pulls it to the deep backward square leg fence , good way to get off the mark 38.5 Naveed to K O'Brien , no run , just short of a good length and angling in around off , O'Brien punches it to mid-off Kevin O'Brien , right handed bat , comes to the crease 38.4 Naveed to Balbirnie , out Caught by ( sub ) Saqlain Haider ! ! Balbirnie goes and it is a soft dismissal for the middle-order batsman. It was on a length and outside off , Balbirnie was looking to loft it on the up , but does n't get the desired elevation. He ends up giving a simple catch to the man at mid-off. UAE players are delighted to break this 74-run stand. Balbirnie c ( sub ) Saqlain Haider b Naveed 30 ( 41 ) [ 4s-1 ] Naveed to Balbirnie , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 38.3 Naveed to G Wilson , 1 run , another full delivery outside off , Wilson charges down the track and drives it through the covers , the fielder at sweeper cover was quick to get to the ball and the batsman decide against taking on the throw 38.2 Naveed to G Wilson , no run , just short of a good length and the ball jags back in from outside off , Wilson was looking to play the late cut from the crease , but the ball cramps him for room , the keeper collects 38.1 Naveed to Balbirnie , 3 runs , fuller in length and outside off , Balbirnie leans forward and drives it past a diving cover , the fielder from sweeper comes across in the deep and the batsmen decide to take the third run as well , the throw comes in at the non-striker 's end , but the batsman was well in Mohammad Naveed [ 5.0-1-22-0 ] is back into the attack 37.6 Karate to Balbirnie , 1 run , slower ball from Karate , Balbirnie pushes it to the right of the bowler , who dives but ca n't stop the ball , the batsmen take a single as the ball rolls away towards the long-on region 37.5 Karate to G Wilson , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Wilson punches it to long-on 37.4 Karate to G Wilson , 1 run , drags his length back and cramps the batsman for room , who nurdles it behind square for a couple , but wait a minute , the umpire signals one short as Wilson did n't ground his bat inside the crease when he was turning for the second 37.3 Karate to G Wilson , no run , how did that miss the off stump ? It was the slower one from Karate , Wilson backs away and looks to pull hard , but fails to connect and the ball goes through to the keeper , but it was inches away from the off stump 37.2 Karate to G Wilson , no run , short and outside off , Wilson backs away but fails to connect with the cut 37.1 Karate to G Wilson , 2 runs , short and at the batsman , who was backing away , Wilson pulls it behind square for a couple of runs 36.6 Rohan Mustafa to G Wilson , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle stump line , Wilson eases it down to long-on 36.5 Rohan Mustafa to G Wilson , no run , drags this short and outside off , Wilson cuts but picks out short third man 36.4 Rohan Mustafa to Balbirnie , 1 run , floated up around off , Balbirnie pushes it down to long-on 36.3 Rohan Mustafa to G Wilson , 1 run , quicker through the air this time , Wilson eases it down to long-on for a single 36.2 Rohan Mustafa to G Wilson , no run , the batsman backs away and looks to pull hard , but the ball turns back in and cramps him for room , pulled to short mid-wicket 36.1 Rohan Mustafa to Balbirnie , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Balbirnie punches it down to long-on 35.6 Karate to G Wilson , no run , slower short ball outside off , Wilson looks to pull , but the ball goes under his bat 35.5 Karate to Balbirnie , 1 run , fuller in length and just outside off , Balbirnie just leans forward and drives it to long-off 35.4 Karate to G Wilson , 1 run , another one that 's short and around off , Wilson pulls it to deep mid-wicket for a single 35.3 Karate to G Wilson , FOUR , short and width on offer outside off stump , Wilson rocks back and cuts it to the right of point for four 35.2 Karate to Balbirnie , 1 run , slower ball and fuller in length , Balbirnie drills it towards long-off 35.1 Karate to Balbirnie , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Balbirnie punches it to cover Time for the batting powerplay 34.6 Rohan Mustafa to G Wilson , 4 runs , floated up outside off , Wilson drives it past a diving cover off the front foot , the fielder from long-off runs across , pulls the ball back in but the batsmen decide to go for the fourth run as the throw was coming in , it was a relay throw and the batsman had to put in the dive at the bowler 's end to get in , a direct-hit would have meant curtains for him 34.5 Rohan Mustafa to Balbirnie , 3 runs , full toss on the pads , Wilson just helps it towards the deep mid-wicket region , the fielder from deep square leg runs across , dives and pulls the ball back in just in time to save a run 34.4 Rohan Mustafa to G Wilson , 1 run , turning in towards the batsman from around off , Wilson glances it towards short fine leg with the turn 34.3 Rohan Mustafa to G Wilson , no run , floated up outside off , Wilson takes a step forward and drives it to cover 34.2 Rohan Mustafa to G Wilson , no run , steps out of the crease and pushes this flighted delivery outside off back to the bowler 34.1 Rohan Mustafa to Balbirnie , 1 run , flatter and on middle , Balbirnie works it through mid-wicket Drinks are on the field now. UAE are well on top here. After Joyce and Porterfield threatened to take the game away , but the spinners , especially captain Tauqir , have done reasonably well to pull things back. Joyce was very lucky on many occasions , but eventually fell on 37. Porterfield followed soon and Niall O'Brien could n't put up a stand as well. Wilson and Balbirnie have since then put on a small partnership here , but there 's still a long way to go for Ireland. With the required run-rate creeping up all the time , the batting powerplay will be very important . 33.6 Karate to G Wilson , no run , touch slower and on a good length just outside off , Wilson leans forward , opens the face of the bat and pushes it towards the point region 33.5 Karate to G Wilson , 2 runs , another short delivery outside off , Wilson pulls it towards deep mid-wicket and the batsmen run for a brace 33.4 Karate to G Wilson , FOUR , slower short ball outside off , Wilson looks to flat-bat it , gets a bottom edge that runs past the keeper and to the third man fence as well 33.3 Karate to Balbirnie , 1 run , fullish on off , Balbirnie drives it towards wide long-off , the fielder runs quickly to his left and keeps the batsmen down to a single 33.2 Karate to G Wilson , 1 run , touch short and outside off , Wilson stays back and cuts it to square of the wicket for another run 33.1 Karate to Balbirnie , 1 run , on a good length and outside off , Balbirnie knocks it to sweeper cover for a single Krishnachandran Karate , right-arm medium , comes into the attack Karate comes onto bowl as captain Tauqir decides to keep his last over for later 32.6 Rohan Mustafa to Balbirnie , 1 run , a shade quicker this time , Balbirnie eases it down to long-off and he will keep the strike 32.5 Rohan Mustafa to Balbirnie , no run , floated up on off and middle , Balbirnie pushes it towards mid-wicket 32.4 Rohan Mustafa to Balbirnie , no run , full toss from Mustafa , Balbirnie helps it towards the mid-on region , where the mid-wicket fielder moves to his left and stops the ball 32.3 Rohan Mustafa to Balbirnie , no run , touch quicker on middle , Balbirnie clips it towards backward square leg 32.2 Rohan Mustafa to G Wilson , 1 run , works this flighted delivery towards mid-wicket for a single 32.1 Rohan Mustafa to G Wilson , no run , floated up on off and turning in , Wilson pushes at it , the ball takes the inside edge onto the pad and rolls away into the on-side 31.6 M Tauqir to G Wilson , 1 run , goes back in the crease and gets it past square leg , the batsmen were looking for the second there , but decide against it 31.5 M Tauqir to G Wilson , FOUR , kneels down and sweeps it in the air behind square , the ball was timed beautifully and it races away to the fence in no time , the fielder at deep square leg could only watch it go to the fence 31.4 M Tauqir to Balbirnie , 1 run , leans forward and drives it wide of long-off , Balbirnie was looking for the second there , but Wilson sends him back. The throw from the deep comes in and hits the stumps at the bowler 's end directly , good decision they did n't go for the second run 31.3 M Tauqir to Balbirnie , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Balbirnie defends off the front foot 31.2 M Tauqir to G Wilson , 1 run , flatter from Tauqir , Wilson punches it down to long-off 31.1 M Tauqir to Balbirnie , 1 run , turning into the batsman , who works it away towards backward square leg , where the fielder dives , gets a hand , but ca n't stop the ball completely , the batsmen take a single as the ball trickles away from him 30.6 Rohan Mustafa to G Wilson , no run , touch flatter from Mustafa , Wilson works it into the on-side 30.5 Rohan Mustafa to Balbirnie , 1 run , flighted delivery on the stumps , Balbirnie pushes it down to long-on for a single 30.4 Rohan Mustafa to Balbirnie , no run , floated up on off , Balbirnie defends it back to the bowler 30.3 Rohan Mustafa to G Wilson , 1 run , eases this full toss down to long-on after coming down the track for a single 30.2 Rohan Mustafa to G Wilson , no run , tossed up this time , Wilson flicks it towards mid-wicket 30.1 Rohan Mustafa to Balbirnie , leg byes , 1 run , darted on the pads , Wilson gets an inside edge onto the pad , the batsmen take a single as the ball rolls away behind square 29.6 M Tauqir to G Wilson , no run , glances it with the spin to short fine leg Guruge is feeling the back of his right thigh. Play has been stopped because of that. It seems to be cramp. The physio is still not there. He is walking off the field. In the meantime , the players sip on few drinks. He is seen stretching just outside the rope . 29.5 M Tauqir to Balbirnie , 1 run , Tauqir misfields and allows the batsmen to take a single , driven straight back to the bowler 29.4 M Tauqir to G Wilson , 1 run , fetches it from outside off and wrists it to long-on 29.3 M Tauqir to G Wilson , 2 runs , takes a couple of steps down the wicket and whips it in the air , wide of deep mid-wicket , easy two on offer 29.2 M Tauqir to G Wilson , 2 runs , school boy stuff from Javed , Wilson cuts it towards short third man , the ball turns and beats Javed to his left , the batsmen run two before the ball is hunted down 29.1 M Tauqir to G Wilson , no run , nicely tossed up on off , Wilson defends it back to the bowler 28.6 Rohan Mustafa to G Wilson , 1 run , jumps out of the crease and drives it to long-off 28.5 Rohan Mustafa to G Wilson , no run , comes down the track , almost yorks himself , squeezed towards mid-wicket 28.4 Rohan Mustafa to Balbirnie , 1 run , presents the full face and drives it to long-on 28.3 Rohan Mustafa to G Wilson , 1 run , nudged away with the turn wide of mid-wicket 28.2 Rohan Mustafa to Balbirnie , 1 run , this time the punch is placed to the right of the bowler , who dived in vain 28.1 Rohan Mustafa to Balbirnie , no run , stands tall and punches it to a straightish mid-wicket 27.6 M Tauqir to G Wilson , no run , slower and on off , Wilson turns it with soft hands to short mid-wicket 27.5 M Tauqir to Balbirnie , 1 run , eased away down to long-on 27.4 M Tauqir to Balbirnie , FOUR , Balbirnie goes for the reverse sweep and connects well , it was a full toss around off , Balbirnie middles it and beats the short third man fielder. He has taken full toll of the free-hit Free hit coming up ! 27.4 M Tauqir to G Wilson , no ball , 1 run , that is rare , a spinner overstepping , Wilson nudges it to backward square leg for a single 27.3 M Tauqir to G Wilson , no run , leans forward and taps it to the on-side 27.2 M Tauqir to G Wilson , no run , comes down the track and turns it to short mid-wicket 27.1 M Tauqir to Balbirnie , 1 run , another run-out chance ! And the throw was at the wrong end. Balbirnie punches it gently towards mid-wicket , Amjad Ali runs to his left , dives and stops the ball , he throws it to the bowlers end , rather than the striker 's end. Wilson was ball watching and was late to respond to Balbirnie 's call 26.6 Rohan Mustafa to Balbirnie , 1 run , places this right between the bowler and cover fielder , picks up an easy single 26.5 Rohan Mustafa to G Wilson , 1 run , too straight in line , on middle and leg , Wilson advances down the wicket and nurdles it wide of mid-wicket 26.4 Rohan Mustafa to Balbirnie , 1 run , quicker and on the stumps , Balbirnie knocks it off the back foot to long-on 26.3 Rohan Mustafa to Balbirnie , no run , punched back to the bowler 26.2 Rohan Mustafa to Balbirnie , no run , drags the length back , Balbirnie hangs back and blocks it down the wicket 26.1 Rohan Mustafa to G Wilson , 1 run , flighted on off , Wilson drives it to long-on , Balbirnie wanted the second and was chargiing down before being sent back , no harm done 25.6 M Tauqir to Balbirnie , no run , pushed to cover 25.5 M Tauqir to Balbirnie , no run , stumping missed ! Patil should have done better. This goes straight on with the angle , Balbirnie plays for the turn and is beaten all ends up , loses his balance and drags his back leg out of the crease , but Patil fails to gather the ball 25.4 M Tauqir to G Wilson , 1 run , slower and on off , Wilson goes on his knee and top-edges the sweep over the keeper 's head 25.3 M Tauqir to G Wilson , no run , continues round the wicket , flighted on off , Wilson defends it down the wicket Gary Wilson , right handed bat , comes to the crease 25.2 M Tauqir to N O'Brien , out Lbw ! ! Once again Tauqir provides the crucial breakthrough. All three batsmen who scored fifties against West Indies have been dismissed. It looked like a set-up from the UAE skipper , he tossed up the previous delivery and pushed this through , O'Brien kneels down and misses the sweeep , the ball straightens enough and would have hit middle stump. N O'Brien lbw b M Tauqir 17 ( 24 ) [ 4s-1 ] M Tauqir to N O'Brien , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! O'Brien has been given out LBW. He discusses with his partner and goes for the review. No problems with the no-ball. Snicko does not find anything. The impact is on middle stump. Remember it should be missing the stumps for the decision to be overturned. Hawk-Eye shows it is hitting middle stump. He is OUT ! 25.1 M Tauqir to N O'Brien , no run , nice loopy off-break just outside off , O'Brien lets it go through to the keeper 24.6 Rohan Mustafa to Balbirnie , no run , straight roller , Balbirnie leans forward and works it to mid-wicket , finds the fielder 24.5 Rohan Mustafa to N O'Brien , 1 run , quicker and outside off , O'Brien eases it to sweeper cover 24.4 Rohan Mustafa to N O'Brien , no run , flatter and on off , O'Brien goes deep in the crease and punches it to cover , shouts " wait on , wait on " 24.3 Rohan Mustafa to Balbirnie , 1 run , gets to the pitch of the ball and drives it to long-on 24.2 Rohan Mustafa to Balbirnie , no run , stays on the back foot and punches it to mid-wicket 24.1 Rohan Mustafa to N O'Brien , 1 run , tossed up outside off , O'Brien drives inside out to deep extra cover 23.6 M Tauqir to Balbirnie , no run , punched back to the bowler 23.5 M Tauqir to Balbirnie , no run , sits on the back foot and turns it to mid-wicket 23.4 M Tauqir to Balbirnie , no run , floated up on off , Balbirnie defends it to backward point Andrew Balbirnie , right handed bat , comes to the crease 23.3 M Tauqir to Porterfield , out Bowled ! ! Tauqir has won the battle of captains. Porterfield was struggling the whole innings and has finally been dismissed. It was very well bowled by Tauqir , slows this up considerably , Porterfield is way too early into the sweep , misses and the ball crashes into middle and leg. Ireland are in a bit of trouble now. Porterfield b M Tauqir 37 ( 64 ) [ 4s-2 ] M Tauqir to Porterfield , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 23.2 M Tauqir to Porterfield , no run , drives and picks out the cover fielder 23.1 M Tauqir to N O'Brien , 1 run , gives this plenty of air outside off , O'Brien skips out of the crease and almost yorks himself , digs it out to sweeper cover 22.6 Rohan Mustafa to Porterfield , no run , push-drives it to cover , straight to the fielder 22.5 Rohan Mustafa to N O'Brien , 1 run , fired into the blockhole , O'Brien squeezes it to long-off 22.4 Rohan Mustafa to N O'Brien , 2 runs , floated up on off , O'Brien advances down the wicket and drives it inside out wide of long-off , easy two there 22.3 Rohan Mustafa to N O'Brien , no run , goes straight on , O'Brien leans forward and knocks it to backward point 22.2 Rohan Mustafa to Porterfield , 1 run , tossed up on off , driven down to long-off 22.1 Rohan Mustafa to N O'Brien , 1 run , starts from round the sticks , O'Brien drops it to the off-side and calls for a quick single Rohan Mustafa , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 21.6 M Tauqir to Porterfield , no run , camps on the back foot and punches it off the inside part to short mid-wicket 21.5 M Tauqir to N O'Brien , 1 run , reaches for the drive and slices it square of the wicket for a single 21.4 M Tauqir to N O'Brien , FOUR , superb shot ! Great use of the feet , shimmies down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and lofts it handsomely over the bowler 's head , long-off tried to get around but failed 21.3 M Tauqir to N O'Brien , no run , goes on with the arm , O'Brien leans forward and defends it in front of point 21.2 M Tauqir to N O'Brien , no run , touch quicker and on off , O'Brien presses it to point , no chance for a single as the fielder swoops in quickly 21.1 M Tauqir to Porterfield , 1 run , flighted on off , Porterfield drives it to long-off 20.6 Amjad Javed to N O'Brien , no run , short delivery , O'Brien was shaping to play the pull , decides against it and lets it pass 20.5 Amjad Javed to Porterfield , 1 run , full and on the stumps , Porterfield leans forward and flicks it to deep mid-wicket 20.4 Amjad Javed to Porterfield , no run , darts away after pitching , Porterfield was in a dilemma whether to play or leave , he decides to feel for it and is beaten 20.3 Amjad Javed to N O'Brien , 1 run , fullish and outside off , O'Brien drives it to sweeper cover 20.2 Amjad Javed to N O'Brien , no run , back of a length close to off , O'Brien hangs back and knocks it to point 20.1 Amjad Javed to Porterfield , 3 runs , Javed errs in line , drifts onto the pads , Porterfield whips it past short fine , the fielder gives chase and pulls the ball in just before the rope 19.6 M Tauqir to N O'Brien , no run , flighted on off , O'Brien defends off the inside part of the bat to the on-side 19.5 M Tauqir to N O'Brien , no run , beats the outside edge once again , floated up and spins away , O'Brien goes for the drive and misses 19.4 M Tauqir to N O'Brien , 2 runs , slides it down leg , O'Brien helps it on the way to long leg , picks up another brace 19.3 M Tauqir to N O'Brien , no run , drifts in on off , O'Brien leans forward and taps it to the off-side 19.2 M Tauqir to N O'Brien , 2 runs , teases the new batsman with a tossed up delivery outside off , O'Brien reaches out and slices the drive behind point , splits backward point and short third 19.1 M Tauqir to Porterfield , 1 run , flatter and on middle , Porterfield gets inside the line and works it to the left of mid-wicket 18.6 Amjad Javed to N O'Brien , no run , full and attacking the stumps , O'Brien presents a straight bat and defends down the wicket 18.5 Amjad Javed to N O'Brien , no run , loose shot from O'Brien , first delivery and he tries to take the cover off the ball , pitched up outside off , O'Brien throws his bat it and is beaten. Plenty of chatter from the close-in fielders Niall O'Brien , left handed bat , comes to the crease 18.4 Amjad Javed to Ed Joyce , out Caught by Swapnil Patil ! ! Something had to give and it is a wicket for UAE. Joyce was riding his luck for far too long and finally has managed to nick one to hand. Fuller and slanted across the left-hander , Joyce goes for the drive without any footwork , the outside edge is found and Patil does the rest behind the stumps. Ed Joyce c Swapnil Patil b Amjad Javed 37 ( 49 ) [ 4s-3 ] Amjad Javed to Ed Joyce , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 18.3 Amjad Javed to Porterfield , 1 run , now a ball drops just in front of the fielder. Banged in halfway down the wicket , Porterfield pulls it in the air and on the bounce to deep square leg , Amjad Ali does well to get his body behind the ball 18.2 Amjad Javed to Ed Joyce , 1 run , run out chance missed ! The Irish batsmen are taking some risks now. Joyce drops it to the left of point and takes off for the single , the fielder swoops in and fires a throw at the non-striker 's end , Joyce was gone by a long way had that hit 18.1 Amjad Javed to Ed Joyce , 2 runs , sloppy from Javed , steered down to third man , he hurried in and tried to pick it up with one hand , misses and gives away an extra run 17.6 M Tauqir to Porterfield , no run , floated up just outside off , Porterfield checks his shot and pushes it uppishly to the right of the bowler , luckily it was wide of Tauqir 17.5 M Tauqir to Ed Joyce , 1 run , chips the loft down to long-on 17.4 M Tauqir to Porterfield , byes , 1 run , beaten ! This is top bowling from the UAE skipper , drifts it in and gets it to straighten , Porterfield presses forward and plays down the wrong angle , is beaten comprehensively 17.3 M Tauqir to Porterfield , no run , Porterfield is squared up completely , he looks to work it to the on-side , closes the bat face early , the leading edge falls short of the backward point fielder 17.2 M Tauqir to Ed Joyce , 1 run , makes room and lofts it inside out to sweeper cover 17.1 M Tauqir to Ed Joyce , no run , dropped ! The UAE skipper puts down a dolly. It was slower and around off , Joyce comes down the track and chips it back towards the bowler , Tauqir did n't time his jump , went with one hand and the ball hit the wrist before going down. That is twice in two deliveries that Joyce has escaped being dismissed 16.6 Amjad Javed to Ed Joyce , 1 run , direct hit and it would have been close ! Too straight , Joyce wrists it towards mid-on , he waited for the ball to go past the diving mid-wicket before calling for the single , the fielder shies at the non-striker 's end and misses , he would have been just short of the ground 16.5 Amjad Javed to Porterfield , 1 run , the length is full and outside off , Porterfield drives it to the left of sweeper cover 16.4 Amjad Javed to Ed Joyce , 1 run , fuller and close to off , Joyce eases the drive to long-off 16.3 Amjad Javed to Porterfield , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Porterfield leans forward and drives it towards point , where the fielder allows the ball to go through him 16.2 Amjad Javed to Porterfield , no run , fuller and on off , Porterfield pushes it back down the wicket 16.1 Amjad Javed to Porterfield , no run , back of a length just outside off , Porterfield guides it towards backward point Drinks are on the field now ! Ireland have made a cautious start. The UAE bowlers kept it tight and have been disciplined. Which team can take the initiative in the middle orders ? A couple of wickets will change the game. Or if this stands continues , then the Irish will feel secure. And in the meantime the stumps that helped Joyce survive have been changed . 15.6 M Tauqir to Ed Joyce , no run , backs away to the leg-side , Tauqir keeps him calm by pushing it quicker , blocked to the off-side 15.5 M Tauqir to Ed Joyce , no run , flighted around off , Joyce presses forward and blocks it to cover 15.4 M Tauqir to Ed Joyce , no run , makes room and mistimes the cut back to the bowler 15.3 M Tauqir to Ed Joyce , no run , appeal for lbw , but umpire Llong remains unmoved. It goes on with the arm , Joyce presses forward and ekes out an inside edge onto the pad , that was the only thing that saved him. Otherwise he right in front 15.2 M Tauqir to Porterfield , 1 run , reaches for the drive and hits it down to long-off 15.1 M Tauqir to Porterfield , no run , starts from round the wicket , driven off the toe-end to cover Mohammad Tauqir , comes into the attack 14.6 Amjad Javed to Porterfield , 1 run , good length ball around off , Porterfield eases it to sweeper cover and keeps strike 14.5 Amjad Javed to Porterfield , FOUR , Porterfield joins the party , gets a good stride forward to the full delivery and creams the drive to the right of mid-off. The sweet timing kept taking it away from the fielder 14.4 Amjad Javed to Ed Joyce , 1 run , short and outside off , Joyce cracks the cut to sweeper cover , couple of meters to the right or left and he would have picked up four more 14.3 Amjad Javed to Ed Joyce , FOUR , fabulous shot ! It was not a bad delivery and did n't deserve four. But the quality of the shot was just superb. On a length close to off , Joyce lofts it through the line , straight back over the bowler 's head , couple of bounce and into the fence 14.2 Amjad Javed to Ed Joyce , no run , the fielders inside the circle did well to move quickly and keep the batsmen at their respective ends , Joyce dropped it towards cover-point 14.1 Amjad Javed to Ed Joyce , no run , back of a length on off , Joyce gets behind the line and bunts it in front of point 13.6 Manjula Guruge to Porterfield , no run , fuller and attacking the stumps , Porterfield moves across and taps it to mid-on 13.6 Manjula Guruge to Porterfield , wide , splays it down leg , Porterfield ca n't connect with the flick , wided by umpire Llong 13.5 Manjula Guruge to Ed Joyce , 1 run , back of a length around off , Joyce opens the bat face and runs it down to third man. He did well to elude the wide slip fielder 13.4 Manjula Guruge to Porterfield , 1 run , once again the off-speed delivery from Guruge , Porterfield plays it with soft hands to the off-side , Joyce responds nicely to the quick single 13.3 Manjula Guruge to Porterfield , no run , takes the pace off the ball , Porterfield leans forward and knocks it to cover 13.2 Manjula Guruge to Porterfield , 2 runs , Porterfield feeling the pressure , charges Guruge and looks to hit him out of the park , mistimes it completely and fortunately for him , clears the mid-on fielder 13.1 Manjula Guruge to Ed Joyce , 1 run , that was a risky single , back of a length around off , Joyce drops it wide of point and sets off , the fielder gets across to his left and under-arms the ball to the stirker 's end , Porterfield had made it in though 12.6 Amjad Javed to Porterfield , no run , hint of shape away from the batsman this time , Porterfield presses forward and defends to mid-off. He checked his shot there 12.5 Amjad Javed to Ed Joyce , 1 run , too full and outside off , Joyce brings his bat down and jams it square of the wicket 12.4 Amjad Javed to Porterfield , 1 run , fullish outside off , Porterfield drives it to the right of mid-off , he went hard on the drive and did n't time it as he would have liked 12.3 Amjad Javed to Porterfield , no run , Javed gets away with a full toss , it shaped back in , Porterfield knocks it to mid-on 12.2 Amjad Javed to Porterfield , no run , pitched up outside off , Porterfield drives it crisply , finds the fielder at mid-off. He should have placed it better 12.1 Amjad Javed to Porterfield , no run , full and homing in , Porterfield drives and picks out mid-on 11.6 Manjula Guruge to Porterfield , 1 run , on a length outside off , Porterfield presses it to sweeper cover after leaning forward 11.5 Manjula Guruge to Porterfield , no run , good length ball close to off , Porterfield plays it with soft hands and steers it to wide slip 11.4 Manjula Guruge to Ed Joyce , 1 run , angled in on off and middle , Joyce wrists it through mid-wicket for a single 11.3 Manjula Guruge to Ed Joyce , no run , shortens the length around off , Joyce dabs it towards the wide slip fielder , he dives and parries it to the keeper. Saved a single there 11.2 Manjula Guruge to Ed Joyce , no run , fullish and outside off , Joyce drives without much timing to mid-off , where the fielder makes a tumbling stop. The bat turned in his hands , hence foiling the timing 11.1 Manjula Guruge to Ed Joyce , no run , back of a length just outside off , Joyce taps it towards cover 10.6 Amjad Javed to Ed Joyce , 1 run , tucks the batsman for room , Joyce nurdles it towards square leg and retains strike 10.5 Amjad Javed to Ed Joyce , FOUR , this is adding salt to injury , pitched up on off , Joyce presents the straight bat and drives it down the wicket past the non-striker , no chance for the mid-off fielder had no chance to stop that 10.4 Amjad Javed to Ed Joyce , no run , Javed should have had his man , full and tails back in , Joyce plays all over it , he is beaten off the inside edge , the ball kisses the off-stump and goes to the keeper. The UAE players started to celebrate , but it is a shortlived one. The bail does n't fall and Joyce survives. That is a harsh one for UAE What happened there ? Javed is celebrating as though he got his man. Joyce stands his ground. The ball brushes the off-pole , the off bail jumps but then it sits back in the groove. Unlucky for the bowler ! 10.3 Amjad Javed to Ed Joyce , no run , tight line from Javed , Joyce presses forward and defends to cover 10.2 Amjad Javed to Ed Joyce , no run , on a length close to off , Joyce prefers to hang back and knock it to point 10.1 Amjad Javed to Ed Joyce , no run , short of length on off , Joyce bunts it to the right of Javed , who ca n't get there but mid-off tidies up Amjad Javed , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 9.6 Manjula Guruge to Porterfield , no run , coming back into the batsman a touch , Porterfield gets forward and pushes it back to the bowler 9.5 Manjula Guruge to Porterfield , no run , length delivery around off , Porterfield knocks it towards cover point 9.4 Manjula Guruge to Ed Joyce , 3 runs , full and angled in on middle and leg , Joyce leans forward and clips it through mid-wicket 9.3 Manjula Guruge to Ed Joyce , no run , gets forward to this fuller length delivery around off and defends it to gully 9.2 Manjula Guruge to Ed Joyce , no run , full and on the fifth stump line , does not interest Joyce into playing at it 9.1 Manjula Guruge to Ed Joyce , no run , outside off , Joyce defends it towards gully 8.6 Naveed to Ed Joyce , 3 runs , fullish delivery outside off , Joyce gets forward and drives it between extra cover and mid-off 8.5 Naveed to Porterfield , 1 run , Porterfield comes on the front foot and pushes it towards cover , the fielder picks up the ball and throws it to the keeper , who leaps up to take it but is unable to get to the ball and that allows the batsmen to take a single 8.4 Naveed to Porterfield , FOUR , beautiful shot outside off , Porterfield comes on the front foot and creams the drive to the deep extra cover fence 8.3 Naveed to Porterfield , no run , shortish and outside off , Porterfield gets back to pull and is beaten 8.2 Naveed to Porterfield , no run , chance for a run-out but Porterfield is safe ! It was a length delivery outside off , Porterfield drives it towards point , the fielder moves to his left and fires a throw at the striker 's end. Porterfield was sent back by his partner and makes his ground as the throw comes in 8.1 Naveed to Porterfield , no run , full and coming back into the batsman , Porterfield gets forward and defends it towards mid-off 7.6 Manjula Guruge to Ed Joyce , no run , good length ball outside off , Joyce just watches it closely and lets it go through 7.5 Manjula Guruge to Ed Joyce , no run , slower delivery on leg , Joyce works it towards mid-wicket 7.4 Manjula Guruge to Porterfield , 1 run , slower delivery from Guruge , Porterfield gets forward and looks to loft , the ball goes off the outside half of the bat and flies towards cover , drops in no-man 's land 7.3 Manjula Guruge to Porterfield , 2 runs , length delivery moving away , Porterfield gets forward and eases it through extra cover and mid-off , good fielding in the deep 7.2 Manjula Guruge to Porterfield , no run , shuffles across to this fullish ball and works it in front of square on the leg-side 7.1 Manjula Guruge to Porterfield , no run , fullish ball coming back into the batsman , Porterfield walks forward and defends it with a straight bat 6.6 Naveed to Ed Joyce , no run , length ball angled across the batsman , Joyce shuffles and covers the sticks , lets it go through 6.5 Naveed to Ed Joyce , no run , in the channel outside off , does not interest Joyce into playing at it 6.4 Naveed to Ed Joyce , FOUR , lovely shot from Joyce ! It was a shortish delivery outside off , Joyce rocks on the back foot and muscles the pull towards the deep mid-wicket fence for a one bounce four 6.3 Naveed to Porterfield , 1 run , good length ball just outside off , Porterfield punches it to mid-off 6.2 Naveed to Ed Joyce , 1 run , outside off , Joyce knocks it towards square third man for a comfortable single 6.1 Naveed to Porterfield , 1 run , length delivery around off , Porterfield gets forward and drives it wide of mid-off , the fielder moves across to his right and fields it 5.6 Manjula Guruge to Porterfield , 1 run , fullish and onto the pads , Porterfield leans forward to defend , gets an inside edge to fine leg 5.5 Manjula Guruge to Porterfield , no run , on a good length and around off , Porterfield defends it with an angled bat 5.4 Manjula Guruge to Porterfield , no run , length delivery just outside off , Porterfield defends it off the front foot towards cover 5.3 Manjula Guruge to Porterfield , no run , full around off , Porterfield shuffles and drives it off the inside half of the bat straight to mid-on 5.2 Manjula Guruge to Porterfield , no run , leans forward a touch and turns this length ball towards square leg 5.1 Manjula Guruge to Porterfield , no run , a 117kph length delivery coming back in , Porterfield presses forward to it , gets an inside edge onto the pads 4.6 Naveed to Ed Joyce , no run , keeps the length short and outside off , Joyce stays inside the line and knocks it towards point 4.5 Naveed to Ed Joyce , no run , short of length and outside off , Joyce stays back and cuts it towards point 4.4 Naveed to Ed Joyce , 2 runs , shortish on middle , Joyce gets back and pulls , he gets it high on the bat and the ball drops into the no-man 's land at deep mid-wicket 4.3 Naveed to Ed Joyce , no run , length delivery angled across the batsman , Joyce gets forward and pushes at it , the ball beats the outside edge of his bat 4.2 Naveed to Porterfield , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Porterfield cuts it to third man 4.1 Naveed to Porterfield , no run , Porterfield is pushed onto the back foot to this short of length delivery and blocks it with a straight bat 3.6 Manjula Guruge to Porterfield , 3 runs , length delivery outside off , Porterfield reaches out and cuts it square of the wicket , the outfield is a bit slow , allows the fielder to get to the ball and restrict the batsmen to three 3.5 Manjula Guruge to Porterfield , no run , on a length on off , Porterfield leans on the front foot and blocks it down the track 3.4 Manjula Guruge to Porterfield , no run , fullish ball outside off , Porterfield presses forward and lets that go through 3.3 Manjula Guruge to Ed Joyce , 1 run , length delivery coming back into the batsman , Joyce shuffles across and tucks it towards mid-wicket 3.2 Manjula Guruge to Ed Joyce , no run , full around off , Joyce gets forward and drives it back to the bowler 3.1 Manjula Guruge to Ed Joyce , no run , stays on the back foot and punches it towards cover 2.6 Naveed to Porterfield , no run , in that channel outside off , does not interest Porterfield into playing at it 2.5 Naveed to Porterfield , no run , short of length onto the pads , Porterfield misses the clip 2.4 Naveed to Porterfield , no run , on a good length and close to the off stump , Porterfield covers the sticks and lets it go , good leave by him 2.3 Naveed to Porterfield , no run , beautiful delivery from Naveed , it was a fuller one outside off , Porterfield gets forward to drive , the ball whistles past the inside edge of his bat and goes through to the keeper , he was beaten by the inward movement 2.2 Naveed to Porterfield , no run , back of a length and coming back into the batsman , Porterfield defends it off the back foot 2.1 Naveed to Porterfield , no run , back of a length and angled across the batsman , Porterfield covers the sticks and shoulders arms to it 1.6 Manjula Guruge to Ed Joyce , 2 runs , outside off , Joyce punches it off the back foot to sweeper cover for a brace 1.5 Manjula Guruge to Ed Joyce , no run , defends it off the back foot back to the bowler Ed Joyce , left handed bat , comes to the crease 1.4 Manjula Guruge to Stirling , out Caught by Swapnil Patil ! ! Fantastic start for UAE ! It was a fuller length delivery outside off , lures Stirling onto the front foot , he goes for a booming drive. He was looking for the inswing but the ball holds its line and takes the thickish outside edge of his bat. The keeper makes no mistake. Guruge is ecstatic ! He celebrates with his mates. Stirling c Swapnil Patil b Manjula Guruge 3 ( 9 ) Manjula Guruge to Stirling , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 1.3 Manjula Guruge to Stirling , no run , just outside off , Stirling gets forward and drives it straight to mid-off 1.2 Manjula Guruge to Stirling , no run , length ball coming back in , Stirling punches it to the the left of the bowler 1.1 Manjula Guruge to Stirling , no run , full around off , Stirling presses forward and defends it to mid-off Manjula Guruge , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Manjula Guruge at the other end. Just a slip in place for him.. . 0.6 Naveed to Stirling , 1 run , Stirling is squared up once again , looks to defend , the ball takes the outside edge of the bat and runs down towards square third man 0.5 Naveed to Stirling , no run , short of length and coming back in a touch , Stirling manages to defend it toward cover point , wants a single but Porterfield shouts a loud 'no' 0.4 Naveed to Stirling , no run , back of a length around the off-stump , Stirling defends it back to the bowler 0.3 Naveed to Stirling , 2 runs , touch back of a length around off , Stirling gets forward and pushes it with an angled bat towards sweeper cover 0.2 Naveed to Stirling , no run , length delivery around off , Stirling presses forward and defends it into the off-side 0.1 Naveed to Porterfield , 1 run , off the mark straightaway. It was a back of a length delivery from Naveed , Porterfield is squared up a bit and runs it down to third man Porterfield and Stirling are at the crease. Porterfield is on strike. Naveed will open the attack Welcome back. William Porterfield and Paul Stirling have walked out to the middle. Mohammad Naveed will open the attack for UAE. Two slips in place for him.. . Anwar : " It 's a good total for the team and I wanted to put maximum runs on the board. I am really happy. We can now put pressure on the opposition and we will try to win the match. I was always comfortable at the crease , I trust myself. It 's a big game. I think it 's my best knock. " Ireland then managed to pull things back a bit in the final overs. Stirling was the pick of the bowlers , registering figures of 2/27 in his 10 overs. Sorensen , Cusack and Kevin O'Brien picked up two as well but they were expensive. Overall a decent effort from UAE but Ireland have the batting fire-power to chase this down. Join us back in a few minutes for the run chase... . Veteran Khurram Khan stabilized the innings in the middle overs along with Shaiman Anwar but Khan was not able to hang in for long. Shaiman Anwar continued and combined well with Amjad Javed to lift UAE from the slump. The duo accelerated in the batting powerplay and hit the bowlers all over the park. Javed was unfortunate to fall on 42 , but not before the duo had put up the highest 7th-wicket stand in the history of the tournament. Anwar then went on to score his maiden ODI hundred and also became the first UAE batsman to register a ton in World Cups . UAE will be pleased to finish on 278/9 after surviving a bit of a wobble. After being put into bat , they started off steadily moving at a decent pace. However , a change in bowling from Ireland turned things around , with Stirling picking up Berenger and Karate in back-to-back overs. Soon after , Kevin O'Brien picked up two wickets in his two overs , reducing UAE to 78 for four . 49.6 Cusack to M Tauqir , 2 runs , slower ball outside off stump , Tauqir goes hard at it and gets a thick inside-edge that rolls towards mid-wicket Manjula Guruge , right handed bat , comes to the crease 49.5 Cusack to Naveed , out Caught&Bowled ! ! Naveed has a wild swing at it. It was a short of a length ball , but he 's sliced it in the air , the bowler calls for the catch and takes it easily in the end. Naveed was actually trying to go over mid-wicket. Naveed c and b Cusack 13 ( 11 ) [ 4s-2 ] Cusack to Naveed , THATS OUT ! ! Caught&Bowled ! ! 49.4 Cusack to Naveed , no run , a fine yorker outside off stump , Naveed tries to squeeze it out but misses 49.3 Cusack to Naveed , FOUR , oh he 's late cut that ball really well. Slower delivery on the leg stump , Naveed goes leg-side and meets the ball very late , the ball goes to the left of short third man , who had no chance 49.2 Cusack to Naveed , 2 runs , chips the slower ball in the air towards long-off , a better throw to the keeper would have been curtains for Naveed 49.1 Cusack to Naveed , no run , off-spinning slower ball outside off stump , Naveed swings and misses Alex Cusack [ 9.0-0-46-1 ] is back into the attack 48.6 Sorensen to M Tauqir , no run , good length delivery on the off stump , Tauqir defends 48.5 Sorensen to Naveed , 1 run , flat-bats the short of length delivery to mid-off Mohammad Tauqir , right handed bat , comes to the crease 48.4 Sorensen to Shaiman Anwar , out Caught by G Wilson ! ! That 's gone straight up in the air and the keeper does n't make a mistake. Anwar gets a standing ovation as he walks off. He 's played a terrific knock. He raises his bat as he rushes off the field with a big smile. Slower ball outside off stump , Anwar does n't pick it , tries to smash it hard , but it goes off the bottom of the bat and goes miles up in the air , the keeper moves to his right and takes an easy catch. Shaiman Anwar c G Wilson b Sorensen 106 ( 83 ) [ 4s-10 6s-1 ] Sorensen to Shaiman Anwar , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 48.3 Sorensen to Naveed , byes , 1 run , Naveed swings early and misses the slower ball completely 48.2 Sorensen to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , slower ball outside off stump , Anwar drives it wide of mid-off 48.1 Sorensen to Shaiman Anwar , 2 runs , shortish from Sorensen , Anwar pulls uppishly to deep mid-wicket 47.6 K O'Brien to Shaiman Anwar , 3 runs , full and down the leg-side , Anwar flicks it uppishly past the man at short fine leg and it 's good enough for three. 19 came off that over 47.5 K O'Brien to Naveed , 1 run , short and outside off stump , Naveed goes early into the pull , the ball goes off the toe-end , the keeper dives to his right and half-stops the ball 47.4 K O'Brien to Shaiman Anwar , 3 runs , deft touch and is it running all the way ? No , the fielder does well but Anwar completes three. Maiden ODI hundred for Anwar and he 's played exceptionally well today. He takes his helmet off , raises his bat and acknowledges the applause. He gets a hug from the partner and his teammates are absolutely elated in the dressing room. He just waited for the slower ball to come and guided it at the last moment to third man 47.3 K O'Brien to Shaiman Anwar , 2 runs , full and outside off stump , Anwar slices it over backward point and moves onto 97 47.3 K O'Brien to Shaiman Anwar , wide , this is wide outside off stump again , Anwar lets it go and gets a wide 47.2 K O'Brien to Shaiman Anwar , FOUR , when you can smash the ball like that , why move across the stumps ? Too short from O'Brien , Anwar rocks backs , waits and absolutely smashes the pull to the deep mid-wicket boundary And again. O'Brien pulls out because of the same reason. The umpires have a word with the batsman this time . O'Brien stops on seeing Anwar move across the off stump. He has a chat with the batsman . 47.1 K O'Brien to Shaiman Anwar , FOUR , this is unbelievable ! Anwar jumps across the stump and stands well outside off stump even before O'Brien got into his delivery stride. The bowler bowls one wide outside off stump , Anwar tries to flick , but gets a leading edge that flies over short third man to frustrate the bowler 47.1 K O'Brien to Shaiman Anwar , wide , easy pickings for the umpire. It was way outside off stump and Anwar simply let it go 46.6 Sorensen to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , low full toss from Sorensen , Anwar flicks it towards mid-wicket 46.5 Sorensen to Shaiman Anwar , 2 runs , too short from Sorensen and Anwar opts to flat-bat it over mid-off for a couple of runs 46.4 Sorensen to Naveed , 1 run , width outside off stump , Naveed mistimes the cut to cover-point 46.3 Sorensen to Naveed , no run , yorker from Sorensen , Naveed digs it out 46.2 Sorensen to Naveed , FOUR , what a shot straightaway. Short slower ball on the stumps , Naveed pulls and splits long-on and deep mid-wicket Mohammad Naveed , right handed bat , comes to the crease 46.1 Sorensen to Amjad Javed , out Caught by Ed Joyce ! ! That 's a well judged catch at deep square leg. He was looking into the sun , but he managed to take it very well. Short ball outside off stump , Javed rocks back and pulls , the fielder runs back as he was well inside , takes it to his right before falling onto the ground. End of a sensational 107-run stand. Amjad Javed c Ed Joyce b Sorensen 42 ( 35 ) [ 4s-5 ] Sorensen to Amjad Javed , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 45.6 K O'Brien to Amjad Javed , 1 run , slower ball bumper outside off stump , Javed pulls it to mid-wicket 45.5 K O'Brien to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , this time he cuts in the air and it does n't carry to the man at sweeper 45.4 K O'Brien to Shaiman Anwar , no run , Anwar walks right across the stumps anticipating a widish ball again from O'Brien , he tries to cut but misses 45.4 K O'Brien to Shaiman Anwar , wide , O'Brien gets the radar wrong again , bowls one wide outside off stump 45.3 K O'Brien to Amjad Javed , 1 run , short and wide outside off stump , cut uppishly to sweeper cover 45.2 K O'Brien to Amjad Javed , no run , Javed backs away and tries to slice this full ball but misses 45.1 K O'Brien to Shaiman Anwar , 3 runs , slower ball short and wide outside off stump , Anwar reaches out and cuts it past backward point 45.1 K O'Brien to Shaiman Anwar , wide , and that 's the 100 partnership between these two off just 65 balls. O'Brien tries the widish length ball , but sprays it way past the off stump Kevin O'Brien [ 5.0-0-34-2 ] is back into the attack This is a record 7th wicket stand in World Cup cricket . 44.6 Sorensen to Amjad Javed , no run , short and outside off stump , Javed guides it straight to short third man. He wanted a run but Anwar said no 44.5 Sorensen to Amjad Javed , no run , short ball on the leg stump , Javed ducks under it 44.4 Sorensen to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , friendly slower ball down the leg-side , Anwar glances to fine leg , looks for two but the fielder was quick to get to the ball 44.3 Sorensen to Shaiman Anwar , 2 runs , works the slower ball to square leg , calls 'two , two , two ' and charges back for the second. Excellent running between the wickets 44.2 Sorensen to Amjad Javed , 1 run , low full toss this time , glanced away to fine leg 44.1 Sorensen to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , short ball outside off stump , Anwar pulls it to the right of mid-wicket UAE have scored 74 runs in the last 6 overs. Can they get to 270-280 ? 43.6 Cusack to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , full and wide outside off stump , Anwar drives it along the ground to deep cover 43.5 Cusack to Amjad Javed , 1 run , low full toss outside off stump , Javed guides it to sweeper cover 43.4 Cusack to Amjad Javed , no run , slower ball bumper , Javed ducks under it 43.3 Cusack to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , slower ball following Anwar , the batsman checks his shot and chips it uppishly towards mid-on 43.2 Cusack to Shaiman Anwar , FOUR , there is a man at deep square leg , but he 's hit it in the gap. He 's hitting the ball very hard. Short ball from Cusack , Anwar rocks back and pulls very well , the fielder , who was moving to his left , had no chance 43.1 Cusack to Shaiman Anwar , FOUR , my word ! He 's literally muscled that ! Low full toss outside off stump , asking for trouble and Anwar smashes it flat over mid-off. Great start to the over for UAE. This is his career-best ODI score now Alex Cusack [ 8.0-0-35-1 ] is back into the attack Umpire Llong officially warns Javed for running on the pitch . 42.6 Sorensen to Amjad Javed , 2 runs , tucks the slower ball to backward square leg , calls for two straightaway and makes his ground 42.5 Sorensen to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , short from Sorensen , Anwar flat-bats it hard to long-on 42.4 Sorensen to Shaiman Anwar , leg byes , FOUR , cheeky stuff from Anwar ! Fullish and just around the off stump , the slower ball in fact , Anwar goes right across the stumps and tries to scoop it fine , the ball took the edge before brushing the thigh pad and running away to the fine leg boundary. The umpire did n't spot the edge 42.3 Sorensen to Shaiman Anwar , 2 runs , pulled aggressively again , but does n't get the placement right , long-on runs to his right and saves two 42.2 Sorensen to Amjad Javed , 1 run , gets across the sticks slightly and tucks the short of length delivery to mid-wicket 42.1 Sorensen to Amjad Javed , FOUR , third man is inside the ring and he 's placed it to perfection. Ireland look clueless at the moment. Short of a length delivery from Sorensen , Javed makes room and cuts late , puts it in the gap between backward point and short third man to pick up four more Max Sorensen [ 6.0-0-33-0 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , FOUR , 200 up for UAE. This is fine batting from Anwar. Dockrell offers a short ball again , Anwar smashes it over the infield again and long-on had no chance 41.5 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , no run , turns it towards short mid-wicket 41.4 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , FOUR , he 's made up for the three dot balls in the over. Again Anwar gives himself a bit of room , he was trying to go inside-out earlier in the over but hit it straight to the fielder on the occasion. This time time , he hits it over the top and it escapes to the deep extra-cover boundary 41.3 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , no run , pulled away off the back foot but this time mid-wicket comes into play 41.2 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , no run , goes leg-side and drives the full ball well , but the man at extra-run rushes to his right and makes a diving save 41.1 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , no run , cut nicely off the back foot , but this flatter ball goes straight to backward point 40.6 J Mooney to Amjad Javed , no run , Javed slighlty makes room to smash this slower ball , but in the end taps it towards cover 40.6 J Mooney to Shaiman Anwar , no ball , 1 run , no ball called for attempting a third bouncer above shoulder height in the over. Anwar pulls the slower ball bouncer to deep square leg 40.5 J Mooney to Shaiman Anwar , FOUR , it 's in the slot and it 's easily lofted over the infield. This slower ball goes very full , Anwar waits for it to come and sends it over wide mid-off 40.5 J Mooney to Shaiman Anwar , wide , Mooney tries the slower ball bouncer again , Anwar looks to pull but the ball bouncer over the batsman 's head 40.4 J Mooney to Shaiman Anwar , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Anwar guides it into the on-side 40.3 J Mooney to Shaiman Anwar , 2 runs , slower ball bumper , Anwar pulls it softly towards square leg and races back for the second. Third successive ODI fifty for Anwar and he 's a delighted man. He hands his hands aloft in joy and the entire dressing room gives a great round of applause 40.2 J Mooney to Amjad Javed , 1 run , slower ball outside off stump , muscled hard , but on the bounce to long-off 40.1 J Mooney to Amjad Javed , FOUR , lovely shot ! Angled in on middle and leg , Javed shuffles across , leans forward and plays the pick up shot over short fine leg. This is clever batting from Javed John Mooney [ 5.0-0-18-0 ] is back into the attack The batting powerplay produced 47 runs. These two have counter-attacked and managed to put the pressure back on Ireland . 39.6 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , no run , once again finds the bowled with a crisp punch 39.5 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , no run , drives it back to the bowler 39.4 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , SIX , superb shot ! He went deep in the crease and uses the depth of it. Short and on off , Anwar rocks back and pulls it in front of square. That came right off the meat as the ball cleared the deep mid-wicket fence 39.3 Dockrell to Amjad Javed , 3 runs , drops it short and just outside off , Javed makes room and slaps it over extra cover , the duo come for the third before the ball is hunted down 39.2 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , touch short and just outside off , Anwar cuts square of the wicket for a single 39.1 Dockrell to Amjad Javed , 1 run , easily done , Javed presses it to cover-point and sets off immediately 38.6 K O'Brien to Shaiman Anwar , 2 runs , calls for two and gets it comfortably , slower short ball , Anwar rides the bounces and pulls it behind square. Very expensive over for Ireland , 16 runs came off it 38.5 K O'Brien to Amjad Javed , 1 run , back of a length just outside off , Javed moves away to the leg-side and slashes it off the outside half to third man 38.4 K O'Brien to Amjad Javed , FOUR , O'Brien is dishing out freebies and is getting punished. Slower ball which is dropped halfway down the wicket , Javed makes room and slaps it over cover-point. No one guarding the sweeper fence 38.3 K O'Brien to Amjad Javed , FOUR , no real purpose in O'Brien 's deliveries , too straight , on middle and leg , Javed shuffles across and plays the pick up shot over short fine , the fielder was inside the ring 38.2 K O'Brien to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , shortens the length , Anwar steers it to third man 38.1 K O'Brien to Shaiman Anwar , FOUR , fantastic shot ! It was a short delivery , off-speed one from Kevin O'Brien , it sat up nicely for Anwar , who rocks back and pulls it in front of square . Kevin O'Brien [ 4.0-0-18-2 ] is back into the attack 37.6 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , darts it in on the pads , Anwar nudges it to the right of mid-wicket 37.5 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , no run , pushed through around off , Anwar knocks it to cover 37.4 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , no run , punched back to the bowler 37.3 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , no run , plays it with soft hands in front of short third man , wants a single but Javed is not interested 37.2 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , no run , quicker and on middle , Anwar makes room and punches it back to the bowler 37.1 Dockrell to Amjad Javed , 1 run , slower and on the stumps , Javed stays back and nurdles it in front of backward square leg 36.6 Cusack to Amjad Javed , 3 runs , Cusack overcompensates and pitches it up outside off , Javed drives it between extra cover and mid-off , Dockrell runs behind the ball and hauls it in with the help of a slide , saves a run for the team 36.5 Cusack to Amjad Javed , FOUR , short and around off , Javed backs away to the leg-side , gives himself room to free his arms , slashes it up and over backward point for a boundary 36.5 Cusack to Amjad Javed , wide , bumper which is too high and well wide of off , called for height 36.4 Cusack to Amjad Javed , no run , another short one which Javed has nothing to do with , left alone 36.3 Cusack to Amjad Javed , no run , digs it in short and on off , Javed gets away from the line and lets it pass 36.2 Cusack to Amjad Javed , 2 runs , on a length just outside off , Javed drives it on the up to the left of mid-off for another brace 36.1 Cusack to Amjad Javed , 2 runs , slower ball on off and middle , Javed works it to square leg , the fielder had a long way to run in , and by the time the keeper ran across the batsmen picked up two 35.6 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , FOUR , poor delivery to end the over , rank long hop from Dockrell , it was on middle and leg as well , Anwar had all the time to rock back and pull it to the deep square leg fence. No chance for the fielder in the deep to stop that 35.5 Dockrell to Amjad Javed , 1 run , this time Anwar responds to the call , Javed eases it to the right of backward point 35.4 Dockrell to Amjad Javed , no run , tossed up on off , Javed drops it in front of point , takes a step out for the single but Anwar sends him back 35.3 Dockrell to Amjad Javed , no run , goes on with the arm , Javed leans forward and blocks it to the off-side 35.2 Dockrell to Amjad Javed , no run , flighted on off , Javed pushes it to the left of Dockrell , who dives and stops the ball 35.1 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , quicker and on off , Anwar stays on leg-stump and punches it to sweeper cover The batting powerplay has been enforced ! 34.6 Cusack to Amjad Javed , no run , short delivery , Javed arches back and watches it sail past him 34.5 Cusack to Amjad Javed , no run , good length ball angles into the batsman , Javed presses forward and defends off the inside part to short mid-wicket 34.4 Cusack to Amjad Javed , no run , banged in halfway down the wicket , Javed sways away from the line of the delivery 34.3 Cusack to Amjad Javed , no run , on a length close to off , Javed comes slightly forward and defends it back to the bowler Amjad Javed , right handed bat , comes to the crease 34.2 Cusack to Rohan Mustafa , out Caught by G Wilson ! ! Very loose from Mustafa. He had tried this shot for a couple of times in Cusack 's previous over , this time he manages to nick it to the keeper. It was short of length outside off , even though there are two slips in place , Mustafa tries to guide it to third man and edges it to the keeper. Rohan Mustafa c G Wilson b Cusack 2 ( 9 ) Cusack to Rohan Mustafa , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 34.1 Cusack to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , slower short ball , Anwar pulls it behind square , there was a chance for the second but the duo do n't risk it Time for the official drinks break ! Ireland have done well to keep chipping away at the wickets. Just when UAE were getting a partnership going through Khurram Khan and Shaiman Anwar , the former was dismissed LBW. A lot now depends on how Anwar plays and guides the lower-order . 33.6 Dockrell to Rohan Mustafa , no run , opens the bat face and guides it to backward point , straight to the fielder 33.5 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , shortish and just outside off , Anwar cuts it to sweeper cover 33.5 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , wide , fired down the leg-side , easy call for the ump 33.4 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , no run , flatter and around off , Anwar knocks it towards point , wants a single but Mustafa is not interested 33.3 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , no run , Dockrell gets away with a half tracker down leg , Anwar gets inside the line and pulls it towards short fine , the fielder dives to his right and saves a boundary 33.2 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , no run , tossed up on off , Anwar drops it dead near his feet 33.1 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , no run , slower and close to off , Anwar presses forward and blocks it to the off-side 32.6 Cusack to Rohan Mustafa , 2 runs , fuller and around off , Mustafa drives it with laden feet , the ball takes the outside edge and evades the second slip fielder , the third man does well to keep it to a couple 32.5 Cusack to Rohan Mustafa , no run , on a length outside off , Mustafa has a go at it and once again fails to make contact 32.4 Cusack to Rohan Mustafa , no run , fuller and just outside off , Mustafa leans forward and drives it to mid-off 32.3 Cusack to Rohan Mustafa , no run , back of a length well wide of off , Mustafa goes on a fishing expedition and is lucky not to have got an edge 32.2 Cusack to Rohan Mustafa , no run , goes round the wicket , keeps it on a length just outside off , Mustafa lifts his bat and lets it go 32.1 Cusack to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , takes the pace off the short of length delivery , Anwar waits , rolls his wrists and pulls it to deep square leg 31.6 Dockrell to Rohan Mustafa , no run , flighted around off , Mustafa defends it to the off-side 31.5 Dockrell to Rohan Mustafa , no run , floated up outside off , Mustafa lunges forward and dabs it with an angled bat to backward point Rohan Mustafa , left handed bat , comes to the crease 31.4 Dockrell to K Khan , out Lbw ! ! Khurram Khan is not a happy man as he walks back to the pavilion. It was a 50-50 decision that could have gone either way. Slower and turning in , Khan shuffles across and was on the move as he looked to work it to the on-side , misses and is rapped on the pads. The impact was on off and the ball was spinning in to hit the top of off-stump. Big wicket this for Ireland. K Khan lbw b Dockrell 36 ( 53 ) [ 4s-2 ] Dockrell to K Khan , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Khan has been given out LBW. He has challenged the decision. It is a legal delivery. Was the impact outside off ? No bat involved. Impact is in-line. The ball was clipping the top of leg-stump. So , the on-field decision stays . 31.3 Dockrell to K Khan , 2 runs , uses his feet , meets the pitch of the ball and drives it to the left of the bowler , the fielder from long-on tidies up 31.2 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , bit of extra bounce , Anwar gets inside the line and nurdles it to deep square leg 31.1 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , no run , drags the length back , Anwar mistimes the cut to cover , it was too close to be playing the cut An unofficial drinks break has been taken. Hence there is a slight delay in play . 30.6 Cusack to K Khan , no run , shortens the length close to off , Khan stands tall and taps it to backward point 30.5 Cusack to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , slower short ball , Anwar was deceived on the pull , the ball dribbles off the right shoulder to backward point , the umpire thought he got some wood on that. Khan calls for a sharp run , Anwar was late to respond but makes it in comfortably 30.4 Cusack to Shaiman Anwar , FOUR , top shot ! It was a free-flowing shot and a calculated one as well. It was back of a length , Anwar transfers his weight onto the back foot and lofts it over mid-on , the ball almost carried the distance 30.3 Cusack to Shaiman Anwar , no run , that cut him into half , angled in from wide of the crease , it was the slower ball , Anwar was early into the nudge through the on-side , the ball beats the inside edge and goes over the stumps 30.2 Cusack to Shaiman Anwar , no run , back of a length around off , Anwar hangs back and bunts it to cover 30.1 Cusack to K Khan , 1 run , touch short and outside off , Khan cuts it to sweeper cover Alex Cusack [ 4.0-0-13-0 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Dockrell to K Khan , 1 run , quicker and on off , Khan leans forward and flicks it uppishly , but well wide of the mid-wicket fielder 29.5 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , plays it with soft hands in front of backward point , calls for a quick single and gets a good response from Khan 29.4 Dockrell to K Khan , 1 run , goes straight on , Khan eases it down to long-on 29.3 Dockrell to K Khan , 2 runs , tad short and around off , Khan backs away and cuts it square of the wicket , the sweeper had some distance to travel , that allowed the duo to get back for the second 29.2 Dockrell to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , goes on with the arm , Anwar stays back and nurdles it to square leg 29.1 Dockrell to K Khan , 1 run , trifle short , Khan cuts it off the back foot to sweeper cover George Dockrell , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack The wait is over. The 22-year-old spinner who caught a few eye-balls in the 2011 World Cup has the ball . 28.6 Sorensen to K Khan , 1 run , around the hip , tucked away behind square , K Khan retains the strike with that run 28.5 Sorensen to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , a bit of width outside the off stump and fuller as well , caressed through cover , there is a man in the deep. They are dealing in singles for the moment 28.4 Sorensen to K Khan , 1 run , a touch fuller , turned away with soft hands towards square leg and they amble across for a single 28.3 Sorensen to K Khan , no run , K Khan stays behind the line of the ball and defends it with straight bat 28.2 Sorensen to K Khan , no run , K Khan gets forward and defends it to the on-side 28.1 Sorensen to K Khan , no run , angled across the left hander , he dabs it towards point , Shaiman Anwar was looking for a quick single , sent back by K Khan , a direct hit at the non-striker 's end but Shaiman Anwar is safe 27.6 Stirling to Shaiman Anwar , no run , bit more air on this , Anwar comes slightly forward and taps it to cover 27.5 Stirling to K Khan , 1 run , slightly short and just outside off , Khan cuts it to sweeper cover 27.4 Stirling to K Khan , no run , tossed up on off , Khan drops it towards cover and wants the run , but Anwar sends him back 27.3 Stirling to Shaiman Anwar , 3 runs , floated up around off , Anwar bends down and paddles it fine , Sorensen gives chase and pulls it back just before the rope 27.2 Stirling to K Khan , 1 run , flighted on off , Khan comes down the track and drives it to long-off 27.1 Stirling to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , fraction short and just outside off , Anwar cuts it to sweeper cover 26.6 Sorensen to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , shortens the length around off , Anwar punches it to sweeper cover and retains strike. 100 up for UAE with that single 26.5 Sorensen to Shaiman Anwar , 2 runs , short and width on offer , Anwar cuts it behind point , Dockrell runs to his right from third man , slides and flicks it to Kevin O'Brien , who fires it in to the striker 's end 26.4 Sorensen to Shaiman Anwar , no run , back of a length close to off , Anwar guides it to backward point 26.3 Sorensen to Shaiman Anwar , no run , good length ball on off , Anwar presses it to cover after coming forward 26.2 Sorensen to Shaiman Anwar , 2 runs , on a length just outside off , Anwar drives it on the up through cover , Kevin O'Brien runs to his right from sweeper and keeps it down to two 26.1 Sorensen to K Khan , 1 run , fuller and around off , Khan eases the drive to sweeper cover Max Sorensen [ 4.0-0-24-0 ] is back into the attack 25.6 Stirling to Shaiman Anwar , no run , works it with the turn to backward square , straight to the fielder 25.5 Stirling to K Khan , 1 run , flatter and close to off , Khan punches it to sweeper cover 25.4 Stirling to K Khan , no run , pushed through on off , Khan leans forward and clips it short mid-wicket , the fielder dives and makes a fine stop 25.3 Stirling to K Khan , no run , slower and around off , Khan knocks it to backward point 25.2 Stirling to K Khan , no run , kneels down and misses the sweeep , no appeal for lbw as the impact was outside off 25.1 Stirling to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , cracks the cut to sweeper cover 24.6 K O'Brien to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , Anwar stays back and punches it to sweeper cover 24.5 K O'Brien to Shaiman Anwar , no run , slower delivery around off , Anwar gets forward and defends it to cover 24.4 K O'Brien to K Khan , 1 run , shortish ball from O'Brien this time , Khan gets back and pulls it through backward square leg 24.3 K O'Brien to K Khan , no run , length delivery , 111kph , Khan shuffles across and looks to defend , gets an inside edge onto the pads , muted appeal for lbw but the umpire had spotted the wood on that 24.2 K O'Brien to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , slower one , just 110kph delivery from Kevin O'Brien , wide of off as well , Anwar drives it on the up towards square third man 24.1 K O'Brien to Shaiman Anwar , no run , full on off , Anwar gets forward and drives it straight to mid-off 23.6 Stirling to K Khan , no run , shuffles across and looks to clip , misses and the ball goes off the pad towards short fine leg 23.5 Stirling to K Khan , no run , drifts it on leg , Khan gets down and sweeps , finds the fielder at short fine 23.4 Stirling to K Khan , no run , skips out and pushes it back to the bowler 23.3 Stirling to K Khan , no run , touch shortish again , Khan backs away and cuts it to point 23.2 Stirling to K Khan , no run , shuffles across a touch and turns it towards mid-on 23.1 Stirling to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , moves deep inside the crease and cuts it square of the wicket 22.6 K O'Brien to K Khan , FOUR , nicely done by Khan ! It was a short ball from O'Brien , Khan swivels on the back foot and pulls it through backward square leg for his second boundary 22.5 K O'Brien to Shaiman Anwar , 3 runs , good length ball outside off , Anwar comes on the front foot and caresses the drive towards deep extra cover , Sorensen gives the ball a chase , slides near the rope and saves one run 22.4 K O'Brien to Shaiman Anwar , no run , length delivery coming back into the batsman , Anwar turns it towards short mid-wicket 22.3 K O'Brien to Shaiman Anwar , no run , length ball outside off , Anwar gets forward and punch-drives it towards mid-off 22.2 K O'Brien to Shaiman Anwar , no run , back of a length around off , Anwar defends it off the back foot to the left of the bowler 22.1 K O'Brien to K Khan , 1 run , length delivery outside off , Khan runs it down to third man off the open bat face 21.6 Stirling to K Khan , 1 run , drifts it on leg , Khan leans forward and clips it through backward square leg 21.5 Stirling to K Khan , no run , full around off , Khan blocks off the front foot with an angled bat 21.4 Stirling to K Khan , no run , gets forward and bunts it towards point 21.3 Stirling to K Khan , no run , flatter and outside off , Khan gets forward and drives it softly towards cover 21.2 Stirling to K Khan , no run , knocks it towards point 21.2 Stirling to K Khan , wide , slides it down leg , left alone 21.1 Stirling to K Khan , no run , leans on the front foot and solidly defends it towards short cover 20.6 K O'Brien to Shaiman Anwar , no run , full on off , Anwar gets forward and drives it to mid-off Shaiman Anwar , right handed bat , comes to the crease 20.5 K O'Brien to Swapnil Patil , out Caught by Stirling ! ! Another wicket for Kevin O'Brien. Ireland are on a roll here ! It was a short of length delivery wide of off , Patil just flays at it , the ball takes the outside edge and travels into the safe hands of Stirling at the first slip. There was some extra bounce on that delivery. Swapnil Patil c Stirling b K O'Brien 2 ( 8 ) K O'Brien to Swapnil Patil , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 20.4 K O'Brien to K Khan , 1 run , short on off , Khan rocks back , rolls his wrists and pulls it along the ground to deep backward square leg 20.3 K O'Brien to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , opens the face of the bat and runs it down towards third man 20.2 K O'Brien to Swapnil Patil , no run , back of a length and outside off , Patil punches it to cover 20.1 K O'Brien to K Khan , 1 run , makes room and steers this short of length delivery towards third man 19.6 Stirling to K Khan , 1 run , backs away to this widish ball and punches it towards sweeper cover 19.5 Stirling to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , flatter outside off , Patil gudies it to deep backward point 19.4 Stirling to Swapnil Patil , no run , outside off , Patil pushes it back to the bowler 19.3 Stirling to Swapnil Patil , no run , goes back and turns it towards short mid-wicket 19.2 Stirling to Swapnil Patil , no run , was that a drop ? Nope ! Looked close ! Patil gets forward and looks to drive , misses the ball as it sneaks past the bat and goes through to the keeper , who fumbles 19.1 Stirling to Swapnil Patil , no run , stays back and bunts it in front of point 18.6 K O'Brien to K Khan , no run , back of a length on off , Khan defends it off the back foot Swapnil Patil , right handed bat , comes to the crease 18.5 K O'Brien to Amjad Ali , out Caught by Sorensen ! ! Change in bowling and another wicket goes down for UAE. Amjad Ali was looking in fine touch but has picked out the fielder at deep mid-wicket to perfection. It was a shortish ball from Kevin O'Brien , Ali gets back and pulls , ends up playing it straight into the hands of Sorenson , simple catch. Amjad Ali c Sorensen b K O'Brien 45 ( 71 ) [ 4s-5 ] K O'Brien to Amjad Ali , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 18.4 K O'Brien to Amjad Ali , no run , stays back to this back of a length delivery on middle and off and defends it to the left of the bowler 18.3 K O'Brien to Amjad Ali , no run , stays inside the line and defends it behind point 18.2 K O'Brien to Amjad Ali , no run , back of a length delivery on middle , Ali defends it back to the bowler 18.1 K O'Brien to Amjad Ali , FOUR , shortish and down leg , there was not much of pace on it either , Ali had enough time to go back and help it on its way , the ball goes fine to the fine leg boundary Kevin O'Brien , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Kevin O'Brien will replace John Mooney 17.6 Stirling to K Khan , no run , flatter and going down leg , Khan looks to clip but misses it 17.5 Stirling to K Khan , no run , gets forward and defends it down the track 17.4 Stirling to K Khan , 2 runs , drifts it onto the pads , Khan leans forward and flicks it towards mid-wicket 17.3 Stirling to K Khan , 2 runs , full and outside off , draws Khan on the front foot , the batsman creams the drive towards deep extra cover , the fielder moves across to his left from sweeper and makes a fine stop 17.2 Stirling to Amjad Ali , 1 run , gets down on one knee and gently sweeps it to deep square leg 17.1 Stirling to Amjad Ali , no run , stays on the back foot and defends with an angled bat towards cover Drinks are on the field now. UAE got off to a good start and were moving along at a decent pace. However , a change in bowling brought about a change in Ireland 's fortune. Stirling picked Berenger and Karate in a space of 5 balls and has bowled very well. Amjad Ali is looking good on 40 . 16.6 J Mooney to K Khan , no run , loud appeal for lbw but the umpire is not interested. Ireland do not take a review either. Khan shuffles across and looks to work this fuller delivery into the leg-side , misses and is rapped on the pads. The impact seemed to be outside off. Also , he might have got an inside edge onto the pad. Not sure about that and neither were Ireland , so they did n't go for the review 16.5 J Mooney to Amjad Ali , 1 run , short of length and on off , Ali comes down the track , drags the pull and mistimes it to deep mid-wicket 16.4 J Mooney to Amjad Ali , no run , length delivery just outside off , Ali gets forward and defends softly 16.3 J Mooney to K Khan , 1 run , short of length and outside off , Khan reaches out and slaps it towards third man 16.2 J Mooney to Amjad Ali , 1 run , short of length outside off , Ali gets back and pulls it towards mid-on for a quick single 16.1 J Mooney to Amjad Ali , no run , gets forward and drives it towards mid-off 15.6 Stirling to K Khan , no run , quicker one from Stirling , Khan stays inside the crease and blocks 15.5 Stirling to K Khan , FOUR , lovely shot ! Some width on offer here by Stirling , Khan comes on the front foot and creams the drive to the deep extra cover fence 15.4 Stirling to Amjad Ali , 1 run , gets down on one knee in a flash and reverse sweeps , he gets an inside edge onto the back thigh , the ball hits the back of the bat and lobs over the keeper to go very fine. The Irish thought that it had missed the bat and they wanted to go for a lbw review , but decided against it 15.3 Stirling to Amjad Ali , no run , skips forward and defends it to the right of the bowler , who moves across and fields it 15.2 Stirling to Amjad Ali , no run , comes on the front foot and defends it down the track 15.1 Stirling to K Khan , 1 run , flighted around off , Khan gets forward and drives it past a diving cover fielder towards mid-off 14.6 J Mooney to Amjad Ali , no run , full and outside off , Ali drives it towards mid-off after coming forward and across 14.5 J Mooney to Amjad Ali , no run , on a good length and outside off , Ali shuffles across and bunts it to the right of the bowler A slip in place for Mooney 14.4 J Mooney to Amjad Ali , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Ali leans forward and pushes it back to the bowler 14.3 J Mooney to K Khan , 1 run , angling into the pads this time , Khan nudges it towards fine leg for a single 14.2 J Mooney to K Khan , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Khan drives it to cover 14.1 J Mooney to K Khan , no run , low full toss outside off , Khan drives it towards mid-off John Mooney [ 3.0-0-14-0 ] is back into the attack 13.6 Stirling to Amjad Ali , no run , drifting on middle and leg , Ali fails to clip it into the on-side and the ball loops up for the keeper to snaffle it , the Irish make a stifled appeal , but it never came off the bat , good over from Stirling 13.5 Stirling to Amjad Ali , no run , lunges forward in defence to this tossed up delivery just outside off 13.4 Stirling to Amjad Ali , no run , slows this one around off , Ali blocks 13.3 Stirling to Amjad Ali , no run , floated up just outside off , Ali defends it back to the bowler 13.2 Stirling to K Khan , 1 run , flighted delivery just outside off , Khan leans forward and drives it towards the cover-point region for a single Khurram Khan , left handed bat , comes to the crease 13.1 Stirling to Karate , out Caught by K O'Brien ! ! Stirling picks another wicket. Good piece of fielding from Kevin O'Brien at slip. It was floated up just outside off , Karate leans forward and looks to drive and gets an outside edge. It gets deflected off the keeper 's thigh and loops up for Kevin to put his right hand up and try to catch it , luckily he takes the pace off and then finally hangs on with both hands in his second attempt. The ball was travelling towards him , but he did really well there. Kevin celebrated Karate 's wicket by posing like the Karate Kid from the movies. Good fun for the Irish players. Karate c K O'Brien b Stirling 0 ( 4 ) Stirling to Karate , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 12.6 Cusack to Amjad Ali , no run , good comeback from the bowler after going for a boundary off the first ball , it was in the channel outside off , Ali gets behind the line and defends 12.5 Cusack to Amjad Ali , no run , on a good length and angling away from outside off , Ali goes across and looks to drive , the ball beats the outside edge and goes through to the keeper , good ball from Cusack 12.4 Cusack to Amjad Ali , no run , full and outside off , Ali leans forward and drives it gently towards cover 12.3 Cusack to Amjad Ali , no run , shuffles across and knocks this length delivery around off to the left of the bowler 12.2 Cusack to Amjad Ali , no run , length delivery angled across off , Ali opens the face of the bat and pushes it towards point 12.1 Cusack to Amjad Ali , FOUR , good shot from Ali , it was short and slightly wide outside off , Ali rocks back in the crease and pulls it to the left of mid-on , who dives but ca n't get a hand , the ball runs away to the fence in no time 11.6 Stirling to Karate , no run , flighted delivery around off , Karate was looking to work it into the on-side , closes the face of the bat a little too early and the ball rolls away to his right off the outside half of the bat 11.5 Stirling to Karate , no run , good ball from Stirling , it was floated up outside off , Karate was pushing at it off the back foot , the ball just beats the outside edge and the keeper collects 11.4 Stirling to Karate , no run , slows this one outside off , Karate gets back in the crease and defends Krishnachandran Karate , right handed bat , comes to the crease 11.3 Stirling to Andri Berenger , out Caught by Porterfield ! ! A wicket against the run of play. Soft , soft dismissal for Berenger. It was the flatter delivery from Stirling , Berenger was looking to tuck it away into the on-side , but ends up chipping it straight to the Irish captain at short mid-wicket. Ireland get the first breakthrough of the day. Andri Berenger c Porterfield b Stirling 13 ( 25 ) [ 4s-1 ] Stirling to Andri Berenger , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 11.2 Stirling to Amjad Ali , 1 run , floated up around off , Ali employs the reverse sweep and gets it to the right of backward point , who dives and stops the ball , the batsmen take a single as the ball rolled away further to his right , the fielder fired in the throw at the non-striker 's end , but the batsman made his ground easily 11.1 Stirling to Amjad Ali , no run , gives this one more air around off , Ali presses forward and dead-bats it 10.6 Cusack to Andri Berenger , 2 runs , on a good length and angling in on off and middle , Berenger plays the pick up shot and gets it behind square for a couple of runs before the fielder from fine leg gets around 10.5 Cusack to Andri Berenger , no run , bowls this fuller in length and just outside off , Berenger drills the drive back towards the bowler , who collects in his followthrough 10.4 Cusack to Amjad Ali , 1 run , fuller and outside off , Ali comes on the front foot and drives it to sweeper cover for another run 10.3 Cusack to Amjad Ali , no run , closer to the off stump this time , Ali defends off the front foot 10.2 Cusack to Amjad Ali , no run , comes forward and across to this length delivery outside off , Ali shoulders arms and leaves it for the keeper 10.1 Cusack to Amjad Ali , no run , on a good length and angling away slightly wide outside off , Ali goes across and chases it , looks to cut , but ca n't make a connection 10.1 Cusack to Amjad Ali , wide , bumper from Cusack to start the over , Ali ducks and the umpire calls it a wide for height , Cusack is not happy with that decision 9.6 Stirling to Andri Berenger , no run , tosses this up just outside off , Berenger leans forward and drives , picks out cover 9.5 Stirling to Andri Berenger , no run , full toss just outside off , Berenger just helps it down to mid-off 9.4 Stirling to Andri Berenger , no run , touch quicker and on the stumps , Berenger defends off the front foot 9.3 Stirling to Andri Berenger , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Berenger drives it towards cover Just a slip in place for Stirling. For the right-hander , he will come over the wicket and there 's a leg gully in place as well 9.2 Stirling to Amjad Ali , 1 run , floated up outside off , Ali drives it off the front foot to long-off and gets to the other end 9.1 Stirling to Amjad Ali , no run , tossed up outside off , Ali pushes it back to the bowler Paul Stirling , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Spin for the first time today. Stirling will start from round the wicket 8.6 Cusack to Andri Berenger , no run , pushes this length delivery around off to cover 8.5 Cusack to Amjad Ali , 1 run , full again and outside off , Ali leans forward and drives it towards the extra cover region , where the fielder dives to his right and gets a hand on it , he took the pace off the ball and the batsmen can only take a single 8.4 Cusack to Amjad Ali , no run , touch fuller and just outside off , Ali leans forward and defends 8.3 Cusack to Amjad Ali , no run , length delivery around off , Ali defends it off the inside half of the bat to the left of the bowler 8.2 Cusack to Amjad Ali , no run , in the channel outside off , Ali knocks it towards cover 8.1 Cusack to Amjad Ali , no run , angles this one slightly wide outside off , Ali is happy to let it go 7.6 Sorensen to Amjad Ali , 1 run , another full delivery angled across off , Ali leans forward and looks to drive off the front foot , the ball takes the outside edge once again and flies towards the third man region 7.5 Sorensen to Amjad Ali , FOUR , touch fuller and outside off this time , Ali goes for the drive through the off-side , the ball takes the outside edge and flies to the left of Kevin O'Brien at first slip , who dives across to his left but could n't get a hand to it , the ball runs away to the fence 7.4 Sorensen to Andri Berenger , 1 run , short and slightly wide outside off , Berenger hangs back and cuts it towards backward point , who dives to his left and gets a hand on it , the batsmen take a single as the ball rolls away behind him , good effort though to save some runs for his team 7.3 Sorensen to Andri Berenger , no run , in the channel around off , Berenger gets behind the line and defends it into the off-side 7.2 Sorensen to Andri Berenger , FOUR , full and outside off , Ali gets forward and drives it on the up past a diving mid-off , the fielder then gave chase to the ball as it slowed down near the boundary , but his legs were touching the rope as he slid and tried to pull the ball back in 7.1 Sorensen to Amjad Ali , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Ali was pushing at it off the front foot , the ball takes the outside edge and runs away down to third man 6.6 Cusack to Andri Berenger , no run , comes on the front foot and drives this full delivery outside off towards cover 6.5 Cusack to Andri Berenger , no run , fuller in length with a hint of inswing around off , Berenger drives it towards mid-off after leaning forward 6.4 Cusack to Andri Berenger , no run , yorker just outside off , Berenger squeezes it out towards mid-off 6.3 Cusack to Amjad Ali , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , Ali pulls it towards fine leg , who moves to his right to stop the ball , he rolled his wrists over it to send it along the ground 6.2 Cusack to Amjad Ali , 2 runs , fuller in length and angling away outside off , Ali leans into the drive and gets it past extra cover , he did n't time it that well , but it was good enough for a couple of runs 6.2 Cusack to Amjad Ali , wide , full and down the leg-side , Ali fails to clip it fine and the umpire exercises his arms 6.1 Cusack to Amjad Ali , no run , on a good length and outside off , Ali reaches to the pitch of the ball and defends it towards cover Alex Cusack , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack First change in bowling , Cusack replaces Mooney 5.6 Sorensen to Andri Berenger , no run , a loud shout for lbw , but the umpire says no , it looked a little too high , it was the inswinger from Sorensen , Berenger was pushing at it off the front foot , the ball beats the inside edge and hits the pad above the knee roll , easy decision for the umpire 5.5 Sorensen to Amjad Ali , 1 run , in the channel outside off , Ali stays back , opens the face of the bat and guides it towards the squarish third man region for a single 5.4 Sorensen to Amjad Ali , no run , good shot for no runs , it was full and outside off , Ali drives it towards cover , who dives forward and makes the stop , the ball was travelling there and the fielder did well 5.3 Sorensen to Amjad Ali , no run , angling away outside off , Ali gets behind the line and pushes it in front of cover 5.2 Sorensen to Amjad Ali , no run , slightly back of a length and on the stumps , Ali stays on the back foot and defends 5.1 Sorensen to Amjad Ali , no run , full and outside off , Ali leans forward and drives it towards cover , who dives to his right to stop the ball 4.6 J Mooney to Andri Berenger , no run , on a good length and around off , Berenger defends off the front foot 4.5 J Mooney to Andri Berenger , no run , short once again , Berenger goes for the pull , but the ball brushes the jersey on its way to the keeper , who dives to his left to collect the ball , there was an appeal , but the bowler was not at all interested 4.4 J Mooney to Amjad Ali , 3 runs , goes wide of the crease and bowls this fuller outside off , Ali drives it through the extra cover region , the batsmen take three as the ball stops just before the boundary 4.3 J Mooney to Amjad Ali , no run , banged in short and at the batsman , Ali was looking to pull it with a swivel , gets an inside edge onto his body 4.2 J Mooney to Amjad Ali , no run , slightly fuller and a little wide outside off , Ali leans forward , reaches out for it and drives towards cover , who moves to his left and stops the ball 4.1 J Mooney to Amjad Ali , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Ali defends it back to the bowler off the front foot , the bowler threatened to throw the ball back at the striker 's end , but did n't do it at the end 3.6 Sorensen to Andri Berenger , no run , just short of a good length and just outside off , Berenger defends it towards the point region once again 3.5 Sorensen to Andri Berenger , no run , in the channel outside off , Berenger opens the face of the bat and pushes it towards point 3.4 Sorensen to Andri Berenger , 2 runs , on a good length and on off and middle , Berenger shows the full face of the bat and punches it over the bowler , the batsmen take a couple before the fielder from mid-on cuts it off 3.3 Sorensen to Amjad Ali , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Ali pushes at it from the crease , the ball rolls away down to third man off the outside half of the bat 3.2 Sorensen to Amjad Ali , FOUR , lucky to get a boundary there , it was fuller and outside off , Ali comes on the front foot and looks to drive , he closes the face of the bat slightly and the ball takes the inside edge and runs past the leg stump and into the fine leg fence 3.1 Sorensen to Amjad Ali , no run , just short of a good length and angled across off , Ali gets behind the line and defends it back towards the bowler 2.6 J Mooney to Andri Berenger , 2 runs , straying on the pads once again , Berenger works it through mid-wicket and gets back for the second with ease 2.6 J Mooney to Andri Berenger , wide , bowls this one well outside off and gets it to shape away further , Berenger leaves and the umpire signals a wide 2.5 J Mooney to Amjad Ali , 3 runs , goes fuller this time but was a touch straighter , Ali works it past a diving mid-on , the batsmen take three before the mid-on fielder gives chase and cuts the ball before the rope 2.4 J Mooney to Amjad Ali , no run , on a length and around off , Ali goes across and works it towards mid-on 2.3 J Mooney to Amjad Ali , no run , very full and angling in on off , Ali was looking to clip it through the on-side , the ball takes the inside edge onto the pad , good bit of inswing there for Mooney 2.2 J Mooney to Amjad Ali , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Ali puts his front foot forward and defends with the bat close to the pad 2.1 J Mooney to Amjad Ali , 2 runs , full and angling in around off , Ali comes on the front foot and drives it through the extra cover region , the batsmen take a couple before the mid-off runs across and fields the ball Mooney comes round the wicket to the left-hander 1.6 Sorensen to Andri Berenger , no run , length delivery shaping away outside off , Berenger leaves it for the keeper 1.5 Sorensen to Amjad Ali , 1 run , on middle stump line and fuller in length , Ali goes across ever so slightly and clips it towards the mid-wicket region for a single 1.4 Sorensen to Amjad Ali , no run , fuller in length and just outside off , Ali leans forward and defends it towards mid-off 1.3 Sorensen to Amjad Ali , FOUR , first boundary of the day , it was very full on off and middle , Ali goes slightly across and drives it past a diving mid-on , the ball runs away to the fence 1.2 Sorensen to Amjad Ali , no run , just short of a good length and angled across off , Ali pushes it into the off-side Two slips in place for Sorensen 1.1 Sorensen to Amjad Ali , no run , bit straighter in line this time , Ali flicks it towards square leg Max Sorensen , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 J Mooney to Andri Berenger , no run , good ball to end the over , it was on a good length and holds its line outside off , Berenger was pushing at it off the front foot , the ball beats the outside edge 0.5 J Mooney to Andri Berenger , 2 runs , shortish and shaping away outside off , Berenger goes back in the crease , gets on top of the bounce and cuts it square of the wicket for a couple 0.4 J Mooney to Andri Berenger , no run , just short of a good length and on off , Berenger gets behind the line and defends it into the off-side Three slips in place for the right-hander 0.3 J Mooney to Amjad Ali , 1 run , goes wide of the crease and bowls this on middle and leg , Ali clips it off his pads behind square to get off the mark 0.2 J Mooney to Amjad Ali , no run , back of a length delivery shaping away outside off , Ali leaves it as well 0.1 J Mooney to Amjad Ali , no run , angling away outside off , Ali lifts his bat and lets it go Amjad Ali and Andri Berenger are at the crease. Amjad Ali is on strike. J Mooney will open the attack The Irish team is in a huddle. The UAE openers also walk out to the centre. Amjad Ali will take the strike first up. Mooney will open the bowling for Ireland. There are two slips in place. Here we go then.. . The players are walking out for the national anthems . Teams : United Arab Emirates ( Playing XI ) : Amjad Ali , Andri Berenger , Krishnachandran Karate , Khurram Khan , Swapnil Patil ( w ) , Shaiman Anwar , Rohan Mustafa , Amjad Javed , Mohammad Naveed , Mohammad Tauqir ( c ) , Manjula Guruge Ireland ( Playing XI ) : William Porterfield ( c ) , Paul Stirling , Ed Joyce , Niall O'Brien , Andrew Balbirnie , Gary Wilson ( w ) , Kevin O'Brien , John Mooney , Alex Cusack , Max Sorensen , George Dockrell Ireland have won the toss and have opted to field Mohammad Tauqir : " I had a bit of break , for about one year because of work commitments , but I am back with the team for 8-10 months now. Very exciting to play at the Gabba. It was a good game of cricket against Zimbabwe. Looking forward to this game as well. Even a score of 350-360 is chased down nowadays. We need to bowl well and field well to restrict that. We wanted to bat first as well. It is a good toss to lose. Just put runs on the board and put them under pressure. It is a great event , mega exposure to all the guys. We need to play good and positive cricket. As I said , put runs on the board and put them under pressure. " William Porterfield : " It was a very good win against West Indies. We had a lot of time to rest and get ready for this game. It does n't count for anything unless you back it up. I think the long wait has n't been too bad. Got a couple of days to relax and build up again for this game. We will bowl first. It is going to be a belter of a pitch today. We will make use of the swing , it is a bit humid. We want to go out there and do what we got to do. We want to put a big performance. We want to take each day as it comes. " Pitch Report : " The pitch is a little bit thirsty after that washed out game between Australia and Bangladesh. There is not too much of a live grass. There is a little bit of cracking , but I do n't think that will come into play much. The average score batting first in the last 5 games here is 250. If you can bat first , it can be 300 day , " reckon Damien Fleming and Dean Jones . Both teams are expected to field the same sides , but we will only know for sure after the toss. Stay tuned . Ireland are the favourites here , especially after the dominating performance they put against the West Indies , who have since then won both their games. But , take UAE lightly at your own peril , they did put up a good show against Zimbabwe. Both teams are going to face each other for the first time in an ODI World Cup game. West Indies and Pakistan would also have great interest in this contest. A win for Ireland today would make it tough for both teams to progress to the quarterfinals . Weather update : Brisbane has been bright and sunny for the past few days , but today it 's going to be a little cloudy. Some rain is expected during the final hours of the day , but hopefully , we will get a full game in. The maximum temperature is expected to be around 28 degree Celsius . Ireland Ireland were magnificent in their first game. After West Indies posted a total above 300 against them , their batters came to the party and thrashed the West Indian bowlers all over the park. The Irish batsmen never looked in any sort of trouble against their Caribbean counterparts. Paul Stirling , Ed Joyce and Niall O'Brien all notched up fluent 70 + scores to help their team win. Even though Ireland lost 4 wickets for 18 runs during the final stages of their innings , Niall O'Brien stayed till the end to see his team through with 25 balls to spare . UAE The team from the Middle East has only played one game so far and it was a closely fought contest between them and Zimbabwe. After being put into bat , UAE braved through the initial hiccups and went onto post 285/7 in their 50 overs. The star of their batting was Shaiman Anwar , who made a 50-ball 67 and it was his acceleration that helped his team reach the 285 mark. Their bowlers did n't start off well , but came back strongly in the middle overs to reduce Zimbabwe to 167/5 in the 33rd over. But , a 83-run partnership in quick time between Sean Williams and Craig Ervine , helped Zimbabwe beat UAE by 4 wickets in the end . Before we go forward , let 's take a look at the form of both the teams : 12 : 15 Local Time , 02 : 15 GMT , 07 : 45 IST : Yesterday , we witnessed the Gaylestorm 's firepower as Chris Gayle notched up the first ODI double ton by a non-Indian batsman. He wreaked havoc on the Zimbabwean bowlers at the Manuka Oval. Today the World Cup party moves to the city of Brisbane. A few days ago , the Australia vs Bangladesh game was washed out due to Cyclone Marcia and torrential rains that followed the cyclone. Today , we are expecting to get a full game in at the Gabba. It promises to be an interesting game , with two associates , Ireland and UAE pitted against each other . Preview Ireland have a golden opportunity to strengthen their case for the knockouts when they play fellow Associates United Arab Emirates in a Pool B encounter at Brisbane in the ICC World Cup on Wednesday . The Irish 's shock win against West Indies in their opener has given the group a big twist. India , Pakistan , South Africa and West Indies - due to their immense experience at the international level - were the pre-tournament favourites to advance from the group but the way Ireland chased down 305 - with 25 balls remaining and four wickets in hand - against the Caribbean team , the fourth spot in the group is not certain to go to a Test team anymore . While both Ireland and UAE are Associate nations , the chasm between their cricket standards is very big. Ireland are considered to be the best Associate nation by many , and there is big support for them in their bid for the Test status.UAE , on the other hand , impressed against Zimbabwe in their opener , even though they ended up on the losing side. After making a competitive 285 , they made their opponents ' life difficult and if it were n't for a sixth-wicket 83-run stand between Sean Williams and Craig Ervine , they result might have been different . Venue : The Gabba , Brisbane Start : 9 am IST Weather : Brisbane saw a washout without a ball being bowled between Australia and Bangladesh on February 21 , but there has been good sunshine over the last few days. However , it 's been predicted to be not so sunny tomorrow with the temperatures expected to hover between 20 and 30 degrees Celcius . Team News : Ireland The possibility of Ireland changing their winning composition is very slim. In case of injuries , Alex Cusack and Craig Young , left out against West Indies , might be called upon . Probable XI : 1 William Porterfield ( capt ) , 2 Paul Stirling , 3 Ed Joyce , 4 Niall O'Brien , 5 Gary Wilson ( wk ) , 6 Andy Balbirnie , 7 Kevin O'Brien , 8 John Mooney , 9 George Dockrell , 10 Max Sorensen , 11 Andy McBrine UAE They too are unlikely to make any changes. Captain Mohammad Tauqir would like to keep the same XI that gave Zimbabwe a good run for their money . Probable XI : 1 Amjad Ali , 2 Andri Berenger , 3 Krishna Chandran , 4 Khurram Khan , 5 Swapnil Patil ( wk ) , 6 Shaiman Anwar , 7 Rohan Mustafa , 8 Mohammad Naveed , 9 Amjad Javed , 10 Mohammad Tauqir ( capt ) , 11 Nasir Aziz Players to watch out for : Shaiman Anwar 's 67 off 50 balls at No 6 against Zimbabwe was the reason why UAE reached a fighting total. Expect another cracker from him . For Ireland , it has to Ed Joyce. The left-hander 's 84 went a long way towards getting the team over the line against West Indies. He must be eyeing another significant innings . Quotes : The squad are great. All the lads are firing. We have a full 15 to pick from again and it will be tough to pick the starting team. Four lads will miss out. We know that whatever eleven go out onto the park we know they will give it all and the lads on the sidelines will back them up. You need competition to keep everybody fresh and on their toes. That 's the way it should be and will be for the next six weeks : Porterfield , when asked whether he was considering any changes They 'll be targeting us. We 've played lots of games against them. I think it 's a wonderful opportunity because it 's a very important game for us as well. So we 're definitely targeting this game : Khurram , when asked about his team 's approach for the game Stats : 1. Porterfield needs just 18 runs to overtake Kevin O'Brien as the leading ODI run-getter for the Irish team . 2. The Irish beat UAE in the T20 WC last year in Bangladesh. However , in the 50-over World Cup , both are playing each other for the first time . Teams : United Arab Emirates ( From ) : Amjad Ali , Andri Berenger , Krishnachandran Karate , Khurram Khan , Swapnil Patil ( w ) , Shaiman Anwar , Rohan Mustafa , Amjad Javed , Mohammad Naveed , Mohammad Tauqir ( c ) , Nasir Aziz , Manjula Guruge , Fahad Alhashmi , Kamran Shazad , Saqlain Haider Ireland ( From ) : William Porterfield ( c ) , Paul Stirling , Ed Joyce , Niall O'Brien , Andrew Balbirnie , Gary Wilson ( w ) , Kevin O'Brien , John Mooney , Max Sorensen , George Dockrell , Andy McBrine , Peter Chase , Alex Cusack , Stuart Thompson , Craig Young Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
