Graphs It 's time I take a deep breath. Two games in a row , two thrilling finishes and it was fun bringing it to you guys. Now , if anyone says that the games between Associates are not interesting , show them the highlights of the last two games. You can now switch tabs to follow the action from the game between Sri Lanka and Bangladesh. On behalf of Bhanu , Sriram and co-commentator Akshay Maanay , this is Sidhant Maheshwari signing off. Take care . @ cricketwallah : Spectacular turnaround by Afghanistan to win first World Cup match ! Their ascent as cricketing nation is among greatest stories in sport.. . @ irbishi : I feel for Scotland but that was another most compelling cricket match. Associates nations are providing so many highlights @ this CWC2015 . @ bhogleharsha : What a finish , what a thriller. Delighted for Afghanistan , but well played Scotland . @ cricketaakash : Super duper win for Afghanistan...there 's so much to like about the way they play their cricket @ G_Rajaraman : This win means a lot to all Afghanistan. Am told cricket unites the different strands of society there like nowhere else @ cricket_U : So in space of 24 hours we have seen two best games of the tournament , involving four Associate teams Let 's take a look at some of the interesting tweets from this game : Nabi : 'This is our first win of the World Cup , everyone has enjoyed this win. There was a lot of pressure and the boys did n't bat well in the middle. We threw away 4-5 wickets early. Sami ( Samiullah Shenwari ) just batted brilliantly and he took the pressure on himself and took the game till the end. It 's a good way of learning how to handle the pressure. We will work in the upcoming games and it 's good to put 2 points on the board with 3 games left. Everyone enjoyed and we hope that we win more games. We have got plenty of support in Australia and New Zealand. Back home too , everyone 's supporting us ( on the support they have received so far ) .' Mommsen : 'It is never easy losing a game , but this is particularly a difficult one for us. We knew what to expect and the type of cricket they play. We knew if we were patient upfront , get a couple of wickets and that might lead to a few more and that happened. We had them 7 down pretty early on. So , very disappointed we could n't finish them off. Obviously , we were always trying to take wickets , but we could n't. We wanted to get those 8,9 and 10 , but unfortunately , it just was n't to be.' Shenwari : 'I am happy that I had the strength to stand for Afghanistan. It was a big pressure situation because we lost lot of wickets quickly. So , my coach gave me the responsibility to stay at the wicket till the end. I did my job and I am happy. That was a very poor shot from me , but I was trying to hit more sixes to help us chase it down. Unfortunately , I middled the ball , but I do n't know why it did n't go over the boundary. It was a good win for us in the tournament to get 2 points and we are looking forward to win more games and qualify for the next stage.' Shenwari is the Man of the Match for his gritty 96 Berrington was the pick of the Scottish bowlers. He registered his career best figures , 4/40 in his 10 overs. Davey and Evans supported him well by scalping two wickets each. Haq as usual was at his slowest best , tossing the ball and keeping things tight at his end. He also kept his cool and snared the wicket of Shenwari in the 47th over. However , they could not keep Shenwari quiet when it mattered. Wardlaw had a forgettable day with the ball , he was also the one who bowled the final over of the innings . Nabi was given out LBW , he reviewed it and Hawk-Eye showed that it was just clipping the leg-stump. Zazai , Najibullah and Naib played some poor strokes and threw their wickets away. Shenwari kept battling at the other end , stitched another crucial partnership with Dawlat Zadran , who went for the glory shot just before the batting powerplay and got out. Hassan hung in there and Shenwari did all the scoring by farming most of the strike. The latter choose which bowler to attack and which bowler to defend , he deserved a hundred but fell four runs short. Shapoor and Hassan held their nerve to finish the game off. The former hit a couple of crucial blows , including the boundary that won them the game . Ahmadi got Afghanistan to a flier , he played some delightful strokes. Even though Mangal and Stanikzai fell cheaply , he carried on and added 39 runs with Shenwari. However , he threw it away just after reaching his 5th ODI fifty. That wicket opened the floodgates for the Scottish bowlers . For the Scottish players , this is heartbreaking. They looked extremely sad and were not in a mood to leave the field. Complete contrast for both the teams. Scotland 's captain Mommsen ca n't believe his luck , he is sitting right next to the track in sheer disappointment. Earlier , it was Scotland , who were delighted when Afghanistan were 97/7 at one stage. The way they turned things around to pull off an improbable win will give the Afghan players a lot of confidence going forward. They were ecstatic and why should n't they be , they have done a brilliant job of winning this game from nowhere. Shenwari started off slowly , but probably played the best and the most important knock of his life. His 96 was fabulous to say the least , lifting his team from a losing position to taking them very close to the win. He was unhappy that he could n't finish things off , but the tail-enders did the job for him. This was the best game of the World Cup so far , undoubtedly . 49.3 Iain Wardlaw to Shapoor , FOUR , Afghanistan have done it , Shapoor has won it for them , he dispatches this to the deep backward square leg fence , takes off his helmet and runs towards his team-mates , he then drops down on the ground , has his arms aloft in the air , Hamid Hassan comes and hugs him after he goes flat on the floor. These are emotional scenes for the Afghan team , their first ever win in a World Cup. A few players run onto the field and hug him. It has been a breathtaking encounter. Shenwari , who got out with 19 runs needed , breathes a sigh of relief . Shapoor has hurt his finger while putting in the dive. The physio is out there and tending to him. He seems to be fine. The game resumes after a slight delay.. . 49.2 Iain Wardlaw to Shapoor , no run , run-out chance missed ! Afghanistan are still in the game , it was on leg , Zadran fails to clip it into the leg-side , the ball rolls away towards mid-wicket and he sets off for the single , Machan from mid-wicket runs in and under-arms the throw at the striker 's end , Shapoor Zadran was struggling to get back , he puts in the dive and was still short of his crease , but luckily the ball missed the stumps Captain Mommsen has a discussion with his bowler about the field placements 49.1 Iain Wardlaw to Hamid , 1 run , good ball from Wardlaw , it was the yorker that tails away in the air , Hassan did well to squeeze it out to third man , the batsmen take a single Iain Wardlaw [ 9.0-0-56-0 ] is back into the attack 5 needed from 6 balls 48.6 Berrington to Shapoor , FOUR , it goes for a boundary , back of a length delivery angling in on middle and leg , Zadran shuffles across and helps it away to the fine leg fence , this game just keeps getting interesting 48.6 Berrington to Shapoor , wide , not a great time to give away extra runs , it was full and wide outside off , the umpire exercises his arms and signals a wide , let 's see what happens with the extra ball 48.5 Berrington to Hamid , leg byes , 1 run , slower back of a length delivery on middle stump line , Hassan was looking to tuck it away into the on-side , but he ca n't connect , the ball goes off the pad to the right of the keeper and the batsmen sneak in a leg bye 48.4 Berrington to Hamid , no run , on a good length and outside off , Hassan pushes it towards cover-point and he ca n't take a single there 48.3 Berrington to Shapoor , 1 run , back of a length delivery angling away outside off , Zadran punches it towards sweeper cover , 200 up for Afghanistan as well 48.2 Berrington to Hamid , 1 run , back of a length delivery angled across off , Hassan opens the face of the bat and steers it down to third man for a single The crowd is getting tensed as well. You can see a number of supporters praying for their respective teams 48.1 Berrington to Shapoor , 1 run , just short of a good length and hurrying onto Shapoor on middle and leg , Zadran did well there to work it through square leg for a single Richie Berrington [ 9.0-0-32-4 ] is back into the attack 14 needed from 12 balls 47.6 Alasdair Evans to Shapoor , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Zadran opens the face of the bat and bunts it past point for a single , he will keep the strike 47.5 Alasdair Evans to Hamid , 1 run , Hamid drops this back of a length delivery in front of point and Zadran was looking for the single , he was out of his crease at the non-striker 's end and Hamid sends him back , the fielder has a shy and hits the stumps just when Zadran had made his ground , the batsmen run on the ricochet , the bowler is not very pleased there 47.5 Alasdair Evans to Hamid , wide , bumper that sails way over the batsman 's head , Hassan ducks and the umpire calls it a wide 47.4 Alasdair Evans to Shapoor , 1 run , angling in on middle and leg , Zadran clips it off his pads to deep mid-wicket and gets to the other end 47.3 Alasdair Evans to Shapoor , no run , angling down the leg-side , Zadran fails to glance it fine , the ball goes off the pad towards the keeper , who dives to his right and collects the ball , the Scots go up in appeal , but the umpire says 'Not Out ' , they lose their review as well Scotland have decided to review a caught behind appeal. It looked like it came off the thigh pad. In fact , it was the thigh pad and hence , the onfield decision will stay . 47.2 Alasdair Evans to Shapoor , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Zadran was looking to force it through the off-side off the back foot , but the ball goes past his blade 47.1 Alasdair Evans to Hamid , 1 run , length delivery outside off , Hassan opens the face of the bat and guides it down towards third man Alasdair Evans [ 9.0-1-25-2 ] is back into the attack Coming back to the wicket , Shenwari was very disappointed. He was sitting down and did n't want to leave. In fact , he still has n't taken his helmet off in the dug-out . 46.6 Haq to Shapoor , no run , loopy delivery on middle , Zadran leans forward and dead-bats it , 19 runs came off that over Shapoor Zadran , left handed bat , comes to the crease 46.5 Haq to Shenwari , out Caught by Davey ! ! Ohh dear , Shenwari has holed out to deep mid-wicket. This is the big wicket. A wonderful innings comes to an end. It was floated on off , Shenwari again went for the slog sweep , but ends up hitting it straight to the fielder at deep mid-wicket. Davey holds onto a fine catch under pressure. There 's some confusion in the middle as the third umpire wanted to check whether there were only 4 fielders outside the circle. But , he is happy with what we saw and Shenwari has been given the marching orders. Shenwari c Davey b Haq 96 ( 147 ) [ 4s-7 6s-5 ] Haq to Shenwari , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Comes back over the wicket now 46.4 Haq to Shenwari , SIX , third six of the over ! This is great batting , Shenwari kneels down to this tossed up delivery and sends it sailing over the deep square leg fence 46.3 Haq to Shenwari , no run , very full around off , Shenwari jams it out back to the bowler 46.2 Haq to Shenwari , SIX , drags this one down leg again , Shenwari just slog sweeps it over the deep backward square fielder , who jumped in the air , but the ball sailed over him , great shot 46.2 Haq to Shenwari , wide , down the leg-side , Shenwari looks to sweep , but ca n't connect , wided by the umpire Comes round the wicket now 46.1 Haq to Shenwari , SIX , another super shot from Shenwari , it was dragged short and on the stumps , Shenwari muscles the pull over the cow corner fence 38 needed from 24 balls 45.6 Iain Wardlaw to Shenwari , 1 run , fuller and outside off , Shenwari drives it gently in front of point and sets off , the fielder picks the ball , but does n't throw , the batsmen would have in fact made it comfortably irrespective of the throw 45.5 Iain Wardlaw to Hamid , 1 run , banged in short and just outside off , Hassan opens the face of the bat and steers it down to third man 45.4 Iain Wardlaw to Hamid , no run , back of a length delivery on off and middle , Hassan defends off the back foot , the ball rolls away past the off-stump , was n't that far though , 3 dots in a row now 45.3 Iain Wardlaw to Hamid , no run , on a good length and angling in on off and middle , Hassan shuffles across just a touch and turns it towards mid-wicket 45.2 Iain Wardlaw to Hamid , no run , back of a length delivery slightly wide outside off , Hassan was looking to run it down to third man , but ca n't connect 45.1 Iain Wardlaw to Shenwari , 1 run , full just outside off , Shenwari looks to drive it through the off-side , the ball rolls away past the off stump and towards short fine off the inside edge , the batsmen take a single 41 needed off 30 balls 44.6 Haq to Shenwari , 1 run , pushed through around off , Shenwari goes down on one knee and slog sweeps it to deep backward square leg , he will keep the strike 44.5 Haq to Shenwari , no run , gives the charge this time and goes for a big heave off the ball that was turning in from middle , he misses and the ball hits him on the back pad , luckily for him , the back pad prevented the ball from going through to the keeper 44.4 Haq to Shenwari , no run , quicker and around off , Shenwari pushes it back to the bowler 44.3 Haq to Shenwari , no run , flatter on off , Shenwari punches it back to the bowler 44.2 Haq to Hamid , 1 run , tucks this one behind square and sets off , both batsmen were stranded in the middle and Hamid decided to go through for the run at the end , the fielder throws at the non-striker 's end , where Haq collects , but was away from the stumps. By the time , he whipped the bails off , Hamid was in Ohh dear ! Is it a run-out ? The third umpire has been pressed into service. But Hamid is well home. This is not out . 44.1 Haq to Hamid , no run , opens the face of the bat and guides it towards short third man , Hamid was going for the single , but Shenwari sends him back , good call from Shenwari 43 needed off 36 balls 43.6 Iain Wardlaw to Shenwari , no run , another yorker from Wardlaw , well directed as well , Shenwari squeezes it out 43.5 Iain Wardlaw to Hamid , 1 run , yorker on off and middle , Hassan jams it out in front of mid-on and sets off , takes the single easily at the end 43.4 Iain Wardlaw to Hamid , FOUR , two slips and he bowls a short one at the batsman , who pulls it hard and gets it behind square , the ball runs away to the fence , good shot from Hassan Two slips in place 43.3 Iain Wardlaw to Shenwari , 1 run , fuller on the stumps , Shenwari drills it straight down the ground for a single 43.2 Iain Wardlaw to Hamid , 1 run , touch fuller and angling in on middle , Hassan drops it in front of mid-on and sets off , the fielder has a shy at the non-striker 's end , but the batsman was well in , the fielder backing up did well even though the ball jumped off the turf , he saved his face as well by putting his hands in front of his face 43.1 Iain Wardlaw to Hamid , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Hassan pushes it towards short cover and was looking for the single , sent back as the fielder was charging towards the ball Iain Wardlaw [ 7.0-0-46-0 ] is back into the attack 50 needed from 42 balls 42.6 Haq to Shenwari , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Shenwari shuffles across and looks to work it through the on-side , closes the bat face a little too early and gets a leading edge that falls in front of the bowler 42.5 Haq to Shenwari , SIX , mammoth six from Shenwari , it hit the roof and broke one of the tiles there , it was floated up around off , Shenwari goes down on one knee and slog sweeps it over the deep mid-wicket fence 42.4 Haq to Shenwari , no run , loopy fullish delivery just outside off , Shenwari dances down the track and goes for another heave , the ball rolls away behind square on the on-side off the inside edge 42.3 Haq to Shenwari , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Shenwari defends off the inside half of the bat 42.2 Haq to Shenwari , no run , flighted delivery on off and middle , turns back in , Shenwari fails to work it into the on-side and the ball rolls away into the on-side off the pad 42.1 Haq to Shenwari , no run , great piece of fielding at wide long-on , saved a boundary there , it was floated up on off , Shenwari heaves it towards wide long-on , where MacLeod dives to his right and prevents the boundary , the batsmen did n't take the single as well Majid Haq [ 7.0-0-18-0 ] is back into the attack Afghanistan supporters not yet given up according to Jamie , " Afghan fans cheering as they sense something special. Shenwari has batted amazingly so far. Can he get support ? " 41.6 Alasdair Evans to Hamid , no run , super save from the keeper ! It was angling down leg , Hassan fails to glance it fine , the ball clips the pad and was going for a boundary , before Cross dived full length to his left and stopped it , saved 4 leg byes for his team , great effort from him 41.5 Alasdair Evans to Hamid , no run , short and wide outside off , Hassan leaves it for the keeper 41.4 Alasdair Evans to Hamid , no run , fuller in length and outside off , Hassan opens the face of the bat and drives to the right of backward point , who slides and stops the ball 41.3 Alasdair Evans to Hamid , no run , bumper outside off , Hassan lets it go , signalled as one for the over 41.2 Alasdair Evans to Hamid , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Hassan was looking to push at it , but just about pulls out at the last moment 41.1 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , 1 run , full outside off , Shenwari mistimes the drive wide of mid-on , where Mommsen from extra-cover dives to his right and keeps them down a single , saved some runs for his team there Alasdair Evans [ 8.0-1-24-2 ] is back into the attack 57 needed off 54 balls 40.6 Davey to Hamid , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Hassan pushes it towards the cover-point region , was thinking about the single , but Shenwari says no 40.5 Davey to Hamid , no run , shortish and slightly wide outside off , Hassan decides to leave it for the keeper 40.4 Davey to Hamid , no run , length delivery on middle stump line , Hassan gently works it into the on-side 40.3 Davey to Hamid , no run , slightly back of a length and outside off , Hassan punches it to short cover 40.2 Davey to Shenwari , 1 run , full and on the stumps again , Shenwari drills the drive down to long-on , this time he takes the single 40.1 Davey to Shenwari , no run , full on off and middle , Shenwari drives it down to long-on , but does n't take the single on offer The batting powerplay produced 21/0 for Afghanistan. . 39.6 Haq to Hamid , no run , Haq goes over the wicket , tosses it up around off , Hassan pushes it to cover 39.5 Haq to Shenwari , 1 run , eases it down to long-on for a single and lets Hassan face only one delivery 39.4 Haq to Hamid , 3 runs , slanted across off , Hassan waits for it in the crease , opens the bat face and runs it down to third man , Evans gives chase and hauls it just in. First runs for Hassan after 12 balls 39.3 Haq to Shenwari , 1 run , goes down on one knee and sweeps it to deep square leg , he hit hard and straight to the fielder 39.2 Haq to Shenwari , no run , pushed across off , Shenwari defends off the inner half to the right of mid-wicket 39.1 Haq to Shenwari , no run , flatter and on off , Shenwari blocks it back to the bowler Majid Haq [ 6.0-0-13-0 ] is back into the attack 38.6 Davey to Hamid , no run , good length ball outside off , Hassan watches the ball settle into Cross ' mitts 38.5 Davey to Hamid , no run , full and on the stumps , Hassan presents the straight bat and defends to the right of the bowler 38.4 Davey to Shenwari , 1 run , back of a length on off , Shenwari drops it towards mid-wicket , calls for the single and they get it comfortably 38.3 Davey to Shenwari , FOUR , short and outside off , Shenwari shuffles across and hammers the cut , no one at sweeper to protect the boundary. Shenwari is playing according to the field. This is amazing batting 38.2 Davey to Shenwari , SIX , what a shot ! It was all power from Shenwari. The slower ball from Davey , Shenwari spots it early , kneels down and swipes it across the line , the ball hardly took off the ground. Went flat and over deep mid-wicket for a maximum 38.1 Davey to Shenwari , no run , starts with a slower one , Shenwari hangs back and knocks it towards point Josh Davey [ 8.0-1-22-2 ] is back into the attack 37.6 Alasdair Evans to Hamid , no run , fuller and on the stumps , Hassan pushes it down the wicket and to mid-on 37.5 Alasdair Evans to Hamid , no run , bunts it off the back foot in front of cover 37.4 Alasdair Evans to Hamid , no run , shortens the length around off , Hassan dabs it towards the slip cordon Two slips in place for Hassan. . 37.3 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , 1 run , low full toss on leg-stump , Shenwari clips it to deep mid-wicket and decides to take a single 37.2 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , no run , digs it in short , Shenwari nails the pull , finds the deep square leg fielder to perfection 37.1 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , no run , fuller and outside off , Shenwari goes for the booming loft , fails to make contact. He was trying to hit that out of the park Alasdair Evans [ 7.0-1-23-2 ] is back into the attack 36.6 Berrington to Hamid , no run , back of a length outside off , Hassan has been given clear instructions to just hang in there by Shenwari , he lets it go through to the keeper 36.5 Berrington to Hamid , no run , on a length just outside off , Hassan ignores it 36.4 Berrington to Shenwari , 1 run , good length ball on off , Shenwari eases it down to long-on for a single 36.3 Berrington to Shenwari , 2 runs , Shenwari brings up his 9th ODI fifty. He does n't even celebrate , seems to be in a grumpy mood after Dawlat 's dismissal. Short and on off , Shenwari swivels and pulls it to deep mid-wicket for a brace 36.2 Berrington to Shenwari , no run , slower delivery which is short in length , Shenwari slaps it straight to extra cover , where Mommsen fields 36.1 Berrington to Shenwari , no run , fuller and just outside off , Shenwari pushes it back to the bowler By the way , the batting powerplay is in progress. Dawlat got out just before it could be taken. It was a complete brain fade from the fast bowler . 35.6 Haq to Hamid , no run , floated up around off , Hassan is content in defending at the moment 35.5 Haq to Hamid , no run , goes on with the arm , Hassan lunges forward and drops it in front of cover 35.4 Haq to Hamid , no run , knocks it down the wicket , this one went straight on and Hassan read it off the turf 35.3 Haq to Hamid , no run , leans forward and blocks it to the off-side 35.2 Haq to Hamid , no run , flighted on off , Hassan presses forward and blocks 35.1 Haq to Shenwari , 1 run , short and on the stumps , Shenwari pulls it over mid-wicket , but there was a fielder on the rope Hamid Hassan , right handed bat , comes to the crease 34.6 Berrington to Dawlat Zadran , out Caught by Mommsen ! ! Rameez Raja on air , " Dawlat after defending so well , showed the tail-enders temperament " . It was a very poor shot from Dawlat. Shenwari is not a happy man. It was on a length just outside off , Zadran goes for the loft , skies it towards mid-off , Mommsen runs back from cover and takes a good catch. Shenwari slammed his bat onto the ground as soon as the ball went up. He also had a few words for Dawlat , who went pass him. Dawlat Zadran c Mommsen b Berrington 9 ( 25 ) [ 4s-1 ] Berrington to Dawlat Zadran , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 34.5 Berrington to Dawlat Zadran , no run , solidly defended off the front foot , the ball rolls back to the bowler 34.4 Berrington to Shenwari , 1 run , back of a length just outside off , Shenwari punches it to sweeper cover 34.3 Berrington to Shenwari , no run , on a length close to off , Shenwari presses it to cover after coming forward 34.2 Berrington to Shenwari , FOUR , super shot ! How could he generate so how much power ? It was a yorker around off , Shenwari squeezes it past the diving bowler , mid-on was inside the ring and had no chance of stopping that. The timing takes it away to the boundary 34.1 Berrington to Dawlat Zadran , 1 run , low full toss on the pads , Zadran glances it down to fine leg 33.6 Haq to Shenwari , no run , turns it gently to short mid-wicket 33.5 Haq to Dawlat Zadran , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Zadran milks it square on the leg-side 33.4 Haq to Dawlat Zadran , no run , goes round the wicket , slows it up just outside off , Zadran lunges forward in defence 33.3 Haq to Shenwari , 1 run , tossed up on off and middle , driven away to long-on for a single 33.2 Haq to Shenwari , no run , defended to the right of the bowler 33.1 Haq to Shenwari , no run , floated up outside off , Shenwari drops it in front of cover , looks for the single but Zadran sends him back 32.6 Berrington to Shenwari , 1 run , fuller and outside off , Shenwari eases it off the front foot to sweeper cover 32.5 Berrington to Shenwari , no run , back of a length around off , Shenwari knocks it towards point 32.4 Berrington to Dawlat Zadran , 1 run , hint of shape back into the batsman , Zadran looks to defend , the ball takes the inside part and runs to deep backward square leg 32.3 Berrington to Dawlat Zadran , FOUR , Berrington errs in line and pays the price. He drifts it onto leg-stump , Zadran tickles it fine , the ball runs away to the fence. He just helped it round the corner 32.2 Berrington to Shenwari , 1 run , full and on the pads , Shenwari flicks it to deep square leg 32.1 Berrington to Shenwari , no run , good length ball around off , Shenwari presses forward and defends to the left of the bowler Richie Berrington [ 6.0-0-16-3 ] is back into the attack Time for a drinks break ! Scotland are in the driver 's seat and it is their match to lose. Afghanistan were cruising at 85/2 , but lost 5 wickets for 12 runs. Berrington was the chief destroyer as he scalped 3 wickets. Shenwari has battled it out at one end and needs some support , if Afghanistan are to win this game . 31.6 Haq to Dawlat Zadran , no run , gives this plenty of air outside off , Zadran shuffles across and dabs it in front of point 31.5 Haq to Dawlat Zadran , no run , throws this up invitingly outside off , Zadran is happy to defend it into the off-side 31.4 Haq to Dawlat Zadran , no run , flighted on off and middle , Zadran lunges forward and blocks A slip comes in for Zadran. . 31.3 Haq to Shenwari , 1 run , flatter and just outside off , Shenwari punches it to backward point 31.2 Haq to Shenwari , no run , glances it fine and picks out the fielder at short fine leg 31.1 Haq to Shenwari , no run , slower and on off , Shenwari turns it gently to mid-wicket Majid Haq [ 3.0-0-9-0 ] is back into the attack 30.6 Iain Wardlaw to Shenwari , 1 run , back of a length on the stumps , Shenwari shuffles across and nurdles it to mid-wicket 30.5 Iain Wardlaw to Shenwari , no run , yorker on the stumps , Shenwari squeezes it out to the on-side 30.4 Iain Wardlaw to Shenwari , no run , pitched up around off , blocked 30.3 Iain Wardlaw to Shenwari , FOUR , Shenwari has decided that it is time to go , fullish and just outside off , he takes the aerial route , lofts it over mid-off and the ball trickles away to the fence 30.2 Iain Wardlaw to Shenwari , FOUR , length delivery around off , Shenwari clears his front leg and mistimes the heave to deep mid-wicket , he had enough wood for the ball to reach the fence. The fielder gives chase , pulls the ball back in but was in contact with the ad cushions 30.1 Iain Wardlaw to Shenwari , no run , fuller and on off , Shenwari defends it down the wicket 29.6 Alasdair Evans to Dawlat Zadran , no run , length delivery on off , Zadran pushes at it , the ball takes the outside edge and rolls away down to third man , Shenwari denies the single to keep the strike 29.5 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Shenwari punches it to sweeper cover off the back foot 29.5 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , wide , bumper that sails well over the batsman , who was ducking under it , signalled a wide 29.4 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , no run , low full toss on off , Shenwari pushes it back to the bowler , who threatened to throw it back at the stumps , but did n't go through with it 29.3 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , no run , length delivery around off , Shenwari leans forward and bunts it to cover 29.2 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , no run , on a good length and on off , Shenwari offers a straight bat and defends it to the right of the bowler 29.1 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Shenwari hops and defends it into the off-side 28.6 Iain Wardlaw to Dawlat Zadran , no run , full and on the pads , Zadran fails to work it fine , the ball hits the pad on the full , there was a stifled appeal , but the ball was sneaking down leg by a long way 28.5 Iain Wardlaw to Shenwari , 1 run , straying on the pads , Shenwari nurdles it to fine leg for a single 28.4 Iain Wardlaw to Shenwari , no run , back of a length delivery angling in on off and middle , Shenwari jumps up and was looking to tuck it away into the on-side , closes the bat face a little too early and gets a leading edge that bounces well short in front of the bowler 28.3 Iain Wardlaw to Shenwari , 2 runs , short and wide outside off , Shenwari cuts it to deep backward point , the batsmen take two before the fielder from sweeper cover runs across and cuts it off 28.2 Iain Wardlaw to Shenwari , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Shenwari drills the drive towards mid-off , the ball raced away to the man there , no runs for a good shot 28.1 Iain Wardlaw to Shenwari , no run , almost a yorker from Wardlaw , Shenwari squeezes it out 28.1 Iain Wardlaw to Shenwari , no ball , too high a full toss to start with , called a no-ball and the bowler has been warned as well. It was angling in on leg , Shenwari was hopping in the crease and is hit high near the waist area Iain Wardlaw [ 5.0-0-33-0 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Alasdair Evans to Dawlat Zadran , no run , length delivery just outside off and shapes away , Zadran was pushing at it , the ball goes past the outside edge , good ball to end the over 27.6 Alasdair Evans to Dawlat Zadran , no run 27.5 Alasdair Evans to Dawlat Zadran , no run , good yorker on off , Zadran squeezes it out in front of backward point 27.4 Alasdair Evans to Dawlat Zadran , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Zadran punches it towards backward point with a slightly open face of the bat 27.3 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , 1 run , just short of a good length and angling in on off and middle , Shenwari shuffles across and works it to deep mid-wicket for a single 27.2 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , no run , length delivery just outside off , Shenwari leans forward and defends it into the off-side 27.1 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , no run , length delivery on off , Shenwari punches it to mid-off , the ball went very quickly to the fielder there Alasdair Evans [ 5.0-1-20-2 ] is back into the attack 26.6 Berrington to Dawlat Zadran , no run , length delivery on off , Zadran defends off the front foot 26.5 Berrington to Dawlat Zadran , no run , length delivery on off , Zadran leans forward and blocks it back to the bowler 26.4 Berrington to Dawlat Zadran , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Zadran defends off the back foot , the ball rolls away behind square on the off-side off the outside half of the bat 26.3 Berrington to Dawlat Zadran , no run , touch fuller and just outside off , Zadran leans forward and pushes it towards cover 26.2 Berrington to Dawlat Zadran , no run , in the channel outside off , Zadran lifts his bat and leaves it alone 26.1 Berrington to Dawlat Zadran , 2 runs , length delivery homing in on middle , Zadran works it towards deep mid-wicket , the batsmen come back for the second run with ease 25.6 Davey to Shenwari , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Shenwari hops in the crease and drops his wrists on it 25.5 Davey to Shenwari , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Shenwari was a little suprised by the extra bounce on that one , but did well to keep it down , the ball rolls away towards backward point 25.4 Davey to Shenwari , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Shenwari punches it to cover 25.3 Davey to Shenwari , no run , length delivery outside off , it was bowled at 123.3kph , Shenwari was poking at it away from his body , the ball goes past the outside edge 25.2 Davey to Shenwari , no run , banged in short and at the batsman , Shenwari ducks under it and the keeper takes it 25.1 Davey to Shenwari , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Shenwari goes half-forward and defends 24.6 Berrington to Dawlat Zadran , no run , fuller in length on off and middle , Zadran pushes it into the leg-side 24.5 Berrington to Dawlat Zadran , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Zadran defends it from the crease towards the cover-point region 24.4 Berrington to Shenwari , 1 run , fullish and on the pads , Shenwari nurdles it to fine leg for a single 24.3 Berrington to Shenwari , no run , length delivery outside off , Shenwari was in two minds whether to play at it or let it go , the ball catches the face of the bat and goes to the left of backward point , who dives to his left and prevents the single 24.2 Berrington to Shenwari , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Shenwari defends off the back foot 24.1 Berrington to Shenwari , no run , fuller and angling in on off and middle , Shenwari wrists it into the on-side 23.6 Davey to Dawlat Zadran , no run , fuller and angling in on off and middle , Zadran just about gets his bat down in time to block it , had he missed , that was plumb in front 23.5 Davey to Dawlat Zadran , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Zadran defends Dawlat Zadran , right handed bat , comes to the crease 23.4 Davey to Naib , out Caught by Haq ! ! Haq is on fire here , he judges the catch very well. Another golden duck for an Afghan batsmen. It was a back of a length delivery just outside off , Naib was caught surprised by the extra bounce here. He was trying to fend it away and gets it off the shoulder of the bat , the ball loops up and goes towards slip , the fielder at gully leaps up , but ca n't get it. However , Haq read it very well and was moving to his right , takes a good catch at the end. Well judged by him. Naib c Haq b Davey 0 ( 1 ) Davey to Naib , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 23.3 Davey to Shenwari , 1 run , angling in on off and middle , Shenwari works it gently into the on-side and sets off 23.2 Davey to Shenwari , no run , slower ball on off , Shenwari defends from the crease 23.1 Davey to Shenwari , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Shenwari leaves it alone Gulbadin Naib , right handed bat , comes to the crease 22.6 Berrington to Najibullah , out Caught by Haq ! ! Finally , Haq makes up for his mistake. Takes a good catch at first slip. It was fuller outside off and inviting the batsman to drive , Zadran goes after it and gets an outside edge that flies to Haq , who snaffles it this time around. 6 wickets down now , they have lost 4 wickets for 11 runs in the last 5 over now. Najibullah c Haq b Berrington 4 ( 5 ) [ 4s-1 ] Berrington to Najibullah , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 22.5 Berrington to Najibullah , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Zadran gets behind the line and defends Comes round the wicket 22.4 Berrington to Najibullah , FOUR , fuller and slightly wide outside off , Zadran leans forward and drives it uppishly through the covers for a single , this is the first boundary in 33 balls 22.3 Berrington to Najibullah , no run , good delivery , it was a back of a length off-cutter angling away outside off , Zadran pokes at it , the ball bounces extra and beats the outside edge 22.2 Berrington to Shenwari , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Shenwari punches it past a diving point for a single 22.1 Berrington to Shenwari , no run , length delivery just outside off , Shenwari pushes it to short cover 22.1 Berrington to Shenwari , wide , not a great start to the over , down the leg-side , wided by the umpire 21.6 Davey to Najibullah , no run , on a good length and angled across off , Zadran defends it in front of mid-off 21.5 Davey to Shenwari , 1 run , angling in on leg , Shenwari glances it towards fine leg and gets to the other end 21.4 Davey to Shenwari , no run , bumper outside off , Shenwari ducks under it and the keeper collects 21.3 Davey to Shenwari , no run , bowls this one in the channel outside off , Shenwari lifts his bat and lets it go 21.2 Davey to Shenwari , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Shenwari pushes it to the left of the bowler , where the short cover fielder moves across to his right and stops the ball 21.1 Davey to Shenwari , no run , fuller and around off , Shenwari defends it back to the bowler Najibullah Zadran , left handed bat , comes to the crease 20.6 Berrington to Zazai , out Lbw ! ! Afghanistan are falling apart here. Zazai departs for a golden duck. This is as plumb as it gets. It was fuller on off and middle , Zazai was pushing at it after shuffling across a touch and misses it completely. The ball hits the back pad and that was cannoning into the middle stump. So , half the Afghanistani side are back in the hut now. Zazai lbw b Berrington 0 ( 1 ) Berrington to Zazai , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 20.5 Berrington to Shenwari , 1 run , fuller in length and on the pads , Shenwari clips it through mid-wicket for a single 20.4 Berrington to Shenwari , no run , shortish and wide outside off , Shenwari cuts it to backward point , who has a shy at the non-striker 's end , but the batsman was well in 20.3 Berrington to Shenwari , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Shenwari pushes it back to the bowler 20.2 Berrington to Shenwari , no run , angling in off and middle , Shenwari turns it into the on-side 20.1 Berrington to Shenwari , no run , ohh no ! Haq has put it down ! It was on a good length and outside off , Shenwari drives at it away from his body , gets an outside edge that travels towards Haq at first slip , who fails to even get a hand on that , the ball hits his chest and falls on the ground. That was a very poor effort from the veteran spinner Afsar Zazai , right handed bat , comes to the crease 19.6 Davey to Nabi , out Lbw ! ! This is a big wicket for Scotland. The Afghan captain is back in the hut. It was on a good length and was angling on middle and leg , Nabi shuffles across slightly and looks to clip it through the on-side , he fails to connect and wears it on his pad. There was a loud appeal , the umpire took his time and raised his finger at the end. The ball was just clipping the leg stump and Afghanistan lose the review. Nabi lbw b Davey 1 ( 3 ) Davey to Nabi , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Nabi has decided to review the lbw decision. He has been given out. Remember , the ball has to miss the stumps for Nabi to stay. Hawk-Eye shows that the ball was just clipping the outside half of the leg stump and the onfield decision stays . 19.5 Davey to Shenwari , 1 run , length delivery outside off , Shenwari opens the face of the bat and gets a thick outside edge past a diving backward point for a single 19.4 Davey to Shenwari , no run , on a good length and homing in on off , Shenwari pushes at it , but the bat turns in his hands , the ball rolls away to square leg off the inside half of the bat 19.3 Davey to Shenwari , no run , fuller and on off and middle , Shenwari drives it to mid-on off the inside half of the bat 19.2 Davey to Shenwari , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Shenwari goes on the back foot and pushes it towards short cover 19.1 Davey to Shenwari , no run , length delivery just outside off , Shenwari defends from the crease Josh Davey [ 4.0-0-19-0 ] is back into the attack 18.6 Berrington to Nabi , no run , on a good length and around off , defended back to the bowler 18.5 Berrington to Shenwari , 1 run , close run-out chance ! It was fuller and around off , Shenwari drives it to the left of the bowler , where Mommsen from cover comes across and puts in the dive , parries the ball towards Machan at mid-on , the batsman was charging towards the non-striker 's end , Machan fires in the throw , but the batsman had made his ground 18.4 Berrington to Shenwari , no run , short of length delivery on top of off , Shenwari hops in the crease and blocks it back to the bowler 18.3 Berrington to Shenwari , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Shenwari pushes it to the right of the bowler after shuffling across 18.2 Berrington to Nabi , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Nabi punches it towards cover-point and gets off the mark Mohammad Nabi , right handed bat , comes to the crease 18.1 Berrington to Ahmadi , out Caught by Machan ! ! Ohh dear ! Ahmadi has thrown it away. This was a brain fade from Ahmadi , who looked so good today. He came charging down the track and went for the loft , but the length was not there. He ends up skying it high and Machan at mid-on takes a simple catch. End of a good innings from Ahmadi. Ahmadi c Machan b Berrington 51 ( 51 ) [ 4s-8 ] Berrington to Ahmadi , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Richie Berrington [ 1.0-0-4-0 ] is back into the attack Change of ends for Berrington as he replaces Haq into the attack 17.6 Iain Wardlaw to Ahmadi , 1 run , homing in on middle , Ahmadi shuffles across just a touch and nurdles it behind square , he was looking for the second there , but does n't go through with it as the fielder in the deep was charging towards the ball 17.5 Iain Wardlaw to Ahmadi , no run , short and slightly wide outside off , should have been put away to the fence , Ahmadi cuts well , but picks out Machan at backward point 17.4 Iain Wardlaw to Shenwari , 1 run , touch fuller and outside off , Shenwari opens the face of the bat and bunts it towards third man 17.3 Iain Wardlaw to Shenwari , no run , banged in short and outside off , Shenwari was looking to play at the , but pulls his bat back at the last moment , did well to leave it in the end 17.2 Iain Wardlaw to Ahmadi , 1 run , 5th ODI fifty for Ahmadi , who opens the face of the bat and guides this short of a good length delivery outside off to third man 17.1 Iain Wardlaw to Ahmadi , FOUR , ohh that was close , but the ball runs away to the fence. It was banged in short and outside off , Ahmadi waits for it and ramps it over a leaping slip fielder , it was close to the fielder , but the ball runs away to the fence nevertheless Iain Wardlaw [ 4.0-0-26-0 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now. " If Scotland lose , they can lay blame equally at the fault of their quicks to feed Afghanistan 's batsmen the cut and pull , " says Jamie 16.6 Haq to Shenwari , no run , presses forward and defends this tossed up delivery just outside off 16.5 Haq to Shenwari , no run , flighted delivery on off , Shenwari defends off the front foot 16.4 Haq to Shenwari , no run , floated up on middle , Shenwari turns it in front of mid-wicket and sets off , Ahmadi sends him back Now , the deep backward square fielder has been moved finer 16.3 Haq to Shenwari , FOUR , tosses this up on off , Shenwari goes down on one knee and sweeps it behind square , the ball runs away to the fence , the man in the deep was very square 16.2 Haq to Shenwari , no run , very slow through the air just outside off , Shenwari leans forward and blocks 16.1 Haq to Shenwari , no run , flatter outside off , Shenwari cuts but picks out cover Haq continues , there is a leg slip in place 15.6 Berrington to Ahmadi , no run , on a length and outside off , Ahmadi opens the face of the bat and pushes it towards backward point 15.5 Berrington to Shenwari , 1 run , angling into the pads , Shenwari clips it towards deep mid-wicket and gets to the other end 15.4 Berrington to Shenwari , no run , fuller in length and on off , Shenwari defends it back to the bowler Just a slip in place for Berrington 15.3 Berrington to Shenwari , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Shenwari shuffles across and pushes it to the right of the bowler 15.2 Berrington to Ahmadi , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Ahmadi hops in the crease , opens the face of the bat and guides it down to third man 15.1 Berrington to Ahmadi , 2 runs , not a great way to start your spell , it was short and wide , Ahmadi cuts it past backward point , the batsmen take a couple before the sweeper runs to his left and tidies up Richie Berrington , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 14.6 Haq to Ahmadi , 1 run , comes down the track , takes it on the full and drives it to long-on 14.5 Haq to Shenwari , 1 run , plays it round his pads and nudges it to square leg , good early call for the single 14.4 Haq to Shenwari , no run , leans forward and blocks it back to the bowler 14.3 Haq to Shenwari , no run , gives this bit more air , Shenwari drives and gets a thickish inside edge to short mid-wicket 14.2 Haq to Shenwari , no run , too full and around off , Shenwari squeezes the drive back to the bowler 14.1 Haq to Ahmadi , 1 run , 75.3kph tossed up delivery , Ahmadi works it wide of mid-wicket for a quick single 13.6 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , no run , the extra delivery almost got Scotland a wicket , on a length and in the channel around off , Shenwari presses forward to defend , the ball holds its line and beats the outside edge 13.6 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , wide , down the leg-side , straightforward call for the umpire 13.5 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , FOUR , bad delivery and it deserved the treatment. All the pressure that was built up has been released. Short and plenty of width on offer , Shenwari cuts it in front of square , the ball travelled quickly to the fence 13.4 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , no run , on a length just outside off , Shenwari drives with an open bat face to backward point 13.3 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , no run , shortens the length , Shenwari jumps up and defends it to the on-side 13.2 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , no run , Machan saves a certain boundary , back of a length just outside off , Shenwari punches it towards cover , Machan dives to his left and stops the ball , it was an acrobatic save 13.1 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , no run , good length ball on off and middle , Shenwari stays behind the line and knocks it to mid-on 12.6 Haq to Shenwari , 1 run , nice loopy delivery to finish the over , Shenwari nudges it to square leg and keeps strike. No problems with the calling this time around 12.5 Haq to Shenwari , no run , floated up on off , Shenwari turns it to the right of mid-wicket , was halfway down the wicket before being sent back , the throw comes in at the striker 's end , by the time Cross collected and took the bails off , Shenwari had made it in comfortably The third umpire has been called into service for a run-out chance. Shenwari has made it in. Easy call for the the TV ump . 12.4 Haq to Shenwari , no run , slight miscommunication , but no harm done , Shenwari works it towards backward square , Ahmadi wanted the single but Shenwari was not interested 12.3 Haq to Shenwari , no run , Haq goes up for lbw , but no support from the rest of his mates. Tossed up and turning in , Shenwari shuffles across and misses the nudge , the impact was on middle but the ball was spinning down leg 12.2 Haq to Shenwari , no run , nice loopy delivery , Shenwari presses forward and defends back to the bowler 12.1 Haq to Ahmadi , 1 run , drops it short , Ahmadi goes back and pulls it to deep mid-wicket Majid Haq , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 11.6 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , no run , closer to the off-stump , Shenwari goes back and knocks it to the right of point , calls " wait " for the single 11.5 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , FOUR , lovely shot ! This was very similar to the previous two deliveries. Shenwari this time decides to play it , he stands tall and punches it through cover-point. The timing is sweet as the ball races away to the fence 11.4 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , no run , keeps it outside off , Shenwari is happy to let it go through to Cross 11.3 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , no run , back of a length just outside off , Shenwari watches it sail past him 11.2 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , no run , short of length around off , Shenwari was looking to poke at it , but does well to bring his bat inside the line and let it go 11.1 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , no run , another lifter just outside off , Shenwari sways away from the line of the delivery 11.1 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , wide , bumper on the stumps , Shenwari sinks under it , too high and the square leg umpire calls it a wide 10.6 Davey to Ahmadi , no run , good comeback from Davey , keeps it in the channel around off , Ahmadi pokes at it and is beaten. That 's the line and length he should be hitting consistently 10.5 Davey to Ahmadi , FOUR , bangs it in short at 127.8kph , Ahmadi had all the time to pick his spot , he pulls it to deep mid-wicket , where there are acres of space available. No chance for the deep square leg fielder to reach that 10.4 Davey to Ahmadi , no run , fuller on off and middle , Ahmadi knocks it softly to mid-on 10.4 Davey to Ahmadi , wide , bouncer down leg , Ahmadi ca n't connect with the pull , wided for line 10.3 Davey to Shenwari , 1 run , fuller and close to off , Shenwari drives away from the body , the ball squirts off the inside edge to fine leg 10.2 Davey to Ahmadi , 1 run , on middle and leg , too straight from Davey , nudged away in front of square for a single 10.1 Davey to Ahmadi , no run , Davey has his hands on his head. Angled in and following the batsman , Ahmadi charges down and looks to go big , gets an inside edge onto the pad , the ball lobs past off-stump. That was very well bowled 9.6 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , no run , shortens the length and gets Shenwari hopping in his crease , dabbed to backward point 9.5 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , no run , beauty ! It was in the corridor of uncertainty , gets it to shape away as well , Shenwari had to play at that and he can only get beaten. That ball hardly carried to Cross 9.4 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , no run , shortish delivery just outside off , Shenwari brings his gloves inside the line and lets it pass 9.3 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , no run , back of a length around off , Shenwari knocks it towards point , wants the single but Ahmadi is not interested A leg gully in place. . 9.2 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , no run , full and on off , Shenwari shuffles across and taps it to mid-on 9.1 Alasdair Evans to Shenwari , no run , back of a length on middle and leg , Shenwari fails to connect with the clip , wears it on the thigh pad 8.6 Davey to Ahmadi , no run , full and targeting the stumps , Ahmadi works it gently to mid-wicket 8.5 Davey to Ahmadi , no run , pitched up just outside off , Ahmadi square drives and picks out backward point 8.4 Davey to Shenwari , 1 run , fullish and straightens , Shenwari plays it with loose hands , the ball takes the edge and rolls down to third man 8.3 Davey to Shenwari , no run , fuller and close to off , Shenwari knocks it to mid-off with a straight bat 8.2 Davey to Shenwari , no run , low full toss , it was the attempted yorker , Shenwari manages to keep it out , brings his bat down at the right time 8.1 Davey to Ahmadi , 1 run , too straight , on middle stump line , Ahmadi gets inside the line and nurdles it to backward square leg Josh Davey [ 2.0-0-10-0 ] is back into the attack Samiullah Shenwari , right handed bat , comes to the crease 7.6 Alasdair Evans to Stanikzai , out Caught by Matthew Cross ! ! Second wicket of the over ! A loose shot from Stanikzai. There were three slips in place and he goes for the steer down to third man , the ball grazes the outside edge and goes to the keeper , Cross makes no mistake. That bounced a bit extra than Stanikzai expected. Stanikzai c Matthew Cross b Alasdair Evans 4 ( 3 ) [ 4s-1 ] Alasdair Evans to Stanikzai , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 7.5 Alasdair Evans to Stanikzai , FOUR , hammered ! Pitched up outside off , Stanikzai drills the drive towards cover , the fielder lets the ball go through him , he failed to get his body behind the line. Poor effort and the bowler is not impressed 7.4 Alasdair Evans to Stanikzai , no run , takes a step forward and turns it gently towards mid-on Asghar Stanikzai , right handed bat , comes to the crease 7.3 Alasdair Evans to Nawroz , out Bowled ! ! Knocked over ! A dream delivery for any fast bowler. The ball hits the top of off-stump. Nip-backer from Evans , Mangal has his feet stuck in cement as he looks to defend , the ball beats the inside edge and crashes into off-stump. Mangal never looked settled. A much needed wicket for Scotland. Nawroz b Alasdair Evans 7 ( 13 ) Alasdair Evans to Nawroz , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 7.2 Alasdair Evans to Ahmadi , 1 run , Gardiner almost pulls off a spectacular catch. Banged in halfway down the wicket , Ahmadi takes it on , top-edges the pull towards fine leg , Gardiner runs forward , dives full length but the ball drops just in front of him , he manages to get his body behind the line and does not allow the ball to go any further 7.1 Alasdair Evans to Nawroz , 1 run , sensible batting from Mangal , steered down to third man and handed the strike back to Ahmadi 6.6 Iain Wardlaw to Ahmadi , FOUR , top shot ! He shows off his pull shot now. Back of a length and close to off , Ahmadi plays the short-arm pull , places it to the right of mid-on and the fielder did n't even bother to chase it 6.5 Iain Wardlaw to Ahmadi , FOUR , fabulous shot ! He explains to Mangal that he was looking to hit it a lot straighter. However , he will take the boundary , length ball and Ahmadi is quick to skip out of the crease and loft it over mid-on. He was looking to go back over the bowler 's head 6.4 Iain Wardlaw to Ahmadi , no run , fuller and around off , Ahmadi pushes it back to the bowler 6.3 Iain Wardlaw to Ahmadi , no run , jags back in from short of length , Ahmadi jabs at it and gets an inner edge back past the stumps 6.2 Iain Wardlaw to Ahmadi , no run , short of length on off and middle , Ahmadi gets into a tangle and fends it awkwardly , the ball pops up off the leading edge and falls safely on the leg-side 6.2 Iain Wardlaw to Ahmadi , wide , that was a harsh call , Ahmadi goes for his favorite shot , charges down , makes room and fails to connect the loft. The ball was just within the tram-line , but the umpire thinks otherwise 6.1 Iain Wardlaw to Ahmadi , no run , shortish and outside off , Ahmadi cuts and finds backward point , he rode the bounce well on that occasion 5.6 Alasdair Evans to Nawroz , no run , on a length close to off , Mangal is slightly forward and defends to cover 5.5 Alasdair Evans to Nawroz , no run , back of a length in the channel around off , Mangal has a waft at that and the ball beats the outside edge 5.4 Alasdair Evans to Nawroz , no run , this one keeps tad low , Mangal manages to bring his bat down and jam it to the on-side , the ball went off the inside part. He was surprised by the bounce there 5.3 Alasdair Evans to Ahmadi , 1 run , shortens the length around off , Ahmadi guides it down to third man 5.2 Alasdair Evans to Nawroz , 3 runs , Coetzer and MacLeod combine well to save a run for the team. Fuller and shaping away outside off , Mangal plays it late and drives it to deep extra cover , Coetzer gives chase from mid-off and pulls it in , but the ball was rolling back , however , MacLeod also dived and hauled it back in 5.1 Alasdair Evans to Nawroz , no run , back of a length on middle and leg , Mangal ekes out an inside edge onto the thigh pad , the ball lobs up and falls safely on the on-side Alasdair Evans , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 4.6 Iain Wardlaw to Ahmadi , FOUR , superb shot ! Ahmadi charges down the wicket and hammers it to deep extra cover. He manages to convert it into a length ball and lofts it inside out , the ball whistled away to the fence. Ahmadi stood there and admired the shot 4.5 Iain Wardlaw to Nawroz , 1 run , Mangal brings up 1000 ODI runs. He becomes the third player from Afghanistan to reach the landmark. Back of a length on off and middle , nurdled away to deep backward square leg 4.4 Iain Wardlaw to Nawroz , no run , loose from Mangal , there are two slips in place and he still goes for the steer down to third man , the ball whizzes past the outside edge 4.3 Iain Wardlaw to Nawroz , no run , back of a length around off , Mangal dabs it towards backward point 4.2 Iain Wardlaw to Ahmadi , 3 runs , banged in mid-way down the wicket , Ahmadi swivels and pulls it in front of square , the mid-wicket dives and fails to stop it , then runs behind the ball and hauls it in just before the rope 4.1 Iain Wardlaw to Nawroz , 1 run , dropped ! Mommsen puts down a tough chance. He almost pulled off a stunner. Nonetheless , it will go down as a drop. Short of a length well wide of off , Mangal pokes at it away from the body , the outside edge flies to the right of second slip , Mommsen dives full length , but just could n't hold on 3.6 Davey to Ahmadi , no run , on a length close to off , Ahmadi presses forward and defends off the inside part to short mid-wicket 3.5 Davey to Ahmadi , no run , now is beaten on the cut , Ahmadi goes for it and is outdone by the extra bounce. He would have been better off had he let that go 3.4 Davey to Ahmadi , FOUR , crunched ! Finally , he has managed to connect with the cut. It was short and plenty of width on offer , Ahmadi goes back and cuts it powerfully to the right of backward point , no chance for the fielder to stop that 3.3 Davey to Ahmadi , FOUR , terrific shot ! He looks comfortable while hitting down the ground. Once again shimmies down the track , converts it into a length delivery and lofts it over mid-off , that came right off the meat of the bat 3.2 Davey to Ahmadi , no run , touch short and outside off , Ahmadi under edges the cut to the slip cordon , he is going a bit too hard on the cut 3.1 Davey to Ahmadi , no run , good length ball around off , Ahmadi knocks it off the back foot to point 2.6 Iain Wardlaw to Nawroz , no run , short of length just outside off , Mangal gets his gloves out of the way and watches it settle into Cross ' gloves 2.5 Iain Wardlaw to Ahmadi , 1 run , waits for the ball to arrive and late cuts it well wide of backward point , third man tidies up 2.4 Iain Wardlaw to Ahmadi , no run , hint of inward movement , Ahmadi stays leg-side of the ball and dabs it to backward point 2.3 Iain Wardlaw to Ahmadi , FOUR , cracking shot ! Ahmadi charges Wardlaw and flays it away to sweeper cover. He gave himself some room as well , the ball travelled to the boundary in no time. A much needed four as the pressure was being applied 2.2 Iain Wardlaw to Ahmadi , no run , keeps it tight around off , Ahmadi drops it with soft hands in front of cover 2.1 Iain Wardlaw to Nawroz , 1 run , good length ball just outside off , Mangal prefers to hang back , gets a thickish outside edge and the ball rolls all along the ground to third man 2.1 Iain Wardlaw to Nawroz , wide , bouncer outside off , called for height 1.6 Davey to Ahmadi , no run , back of a length around off , Ahmadi taps it to point 1.5 Davey to Ahmadi , no run , touch short and on the fourth stump line , Ahmadi mistimes the cut to backward point , it was too close to the body for that shot 1.4 Davey to Ahmadi , no run , on a length close to off , Ahmadi plays the perfect forward defence , the ball rolls towards cover 1.3 Davey to Ahmadi , no run , good length ball on off , Ahmadi leans forward and defends it solidly 1.2 Davey to Ahmadi , 2 runs , poor running , there was three available but they do n't risk it. Back of a length just outside off , Ahmadi stands tall and punches it through cover-point , the fielder from backward point gives chase and keeps it down to two 1.1 Davey to Ahmadi , no run , starts with a short of length delivery close to off , Ahmadi hops up and chops it to the left backward point , they thought about the single but decided against it Josh Davey , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Iain Wardlaw to Ahmadi , 1 run , Coetzer saved runs there , on a length just outside off , Ahmadi frees his arms and drives it on the up to the right of mid-off , Coetzer dives and makes a half stop. He was able to take the pace off the ball 0.5 Iain Wardlaw to Ahmadi , no run , much better line and length from Wardlaw , good length ball in the corridor around off , Ahmadi presses forward and shoulders arms 0.4 Iain Wardlaw to Ahmadi , no run , shortens the length on off and middle , Ahmadi jumps back in the crease and taps it to short mid-wicket 0.3 Iain Wardlaw to Ahmadi , no run , back of a length around off , Ahmadi gets behind the line and knocks it to cover 0.2 Iain Wardlaw to Ahmadi , no run , gets this to shape back in , Ahmadi is cramped for room , he defends this rather awkwardly to the on-side 0.1 Iain Wardlaw to Ahmadi , no run , short and outside off , Ahmadi cracks the cut and picks out backward point , either side and he would have opened his account with a boundary Ahmadi and Nawroz are at the crease. Ahmadi is on strike. Iain Wardlaw will open the attack Record 9th wicket stand for Scotland has helped them put up a decent total on the board. When they were 144/8 , nobody thought 200 was achievable , but Haq and Evans batted sensibly to add 62 runs. Now , upto their bowlers defend this score. Can they restrict Afghanistan ? We 'll find out soon as the openers make their way out to the middle. Ahmadi takes guard and Mangal will be partnering him. Wardlaw with the new ball. He has a couple of slips in place.. . Hamid Hassan : 'We are happy with the score. We bowled really well. Their last few batsmen scored quite a few runs though. Hopefully , we can chase this down. If we can see off the new ball , we should get these runs. The pitch becomes easier after the few overs early on. I am enjoying my cricket , these conditions suit me.' For Afghanistan , every bowler chipped away with a wicket , but Dawlat Zadran was the pick of the bowlers. In his 10 overs , he picked up 3 wickets and went for only 29 runs. Even though Shapoor Zadran picked up 4 wickets and was very economical , it was the other Zadran who troubled the batsmen the most. Now , it is upto their batsmen to chase this down. It 's not going to be easy though as the ball will do plenty in the first few overs. Whichever team wins this game , it will be their first World Cup win. Join us in a short while to follow the run-chase . Captain Mommsen then joined Machan at the crease and both of them steadied the innings for some time , before Machan had a brain fade and was out bowled , ending the 4th wicket partnership of 53. Mommsen also edged one soon after and half the Scottish side was back in the hut before the team had crossed 100. The lower-order of Berrington , Haq and Evans made useful contributions. In fact , Haq and Evans put on a 62-run record 9th wicket stand for Scotland , to propel the score past 200. It is also the first time that they have registered a 200-plus score in World Cups . Scotland started off poorly , losing MacLeod for a duck. Coetzer and Gardiner then put up a small partnership , before Gardiner was trapped in front by Hassan. Coetzer , who was looking in great touch , got a gaffer that knocked his off stump over and Scotland were 40/3 at that stage . 49.6 Shapoor to Alasdair Evans , out Caught by Nabi ! ! Evans falls off the last ball of the innings. It was just short of a good length from Shapoor , Evans backs away and has a swing at it , but ends up slicing in high. The fielder from extra cover runs to his left and takes an easy catch. Scotland will be happy though the final score. Alasdair Evans c Nabi b Shapoor 28 ( 37 ) [ 4s-3 ] Shapoor to Alasdair Evans , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 49.5 Shapoor to Alasdair Evans , 2 runs , back of a length delivery from Shapoor , Evans backs away and mistimes the heave through mid-wicket , it was however , good enough for the batsmen to take two 49.4 Shapoor to Iain Wardlaw , 1 run , backs away a touch and pushes hard at a length delivery , the ball runs away down to third man off the outside edge 49.3 Shapoor to Iain Wardlaw , no run , slower yorker outside off , Wardlaw tries to jam it out into the off-side , but ca n't connect 49.2 Shapoor to Alasdair Evans , 1 run , low full toss on the stumps , Evans drives it to sweeper cover and gets off strike Iain Wardlaw , right handed bat , comes to the crease 49.1 Shapoor to Haq , out Caught by Naib ! ! Haq falls in the final over after a fine innings. It was full on the stumps , Haq backs away and looks to go inside-out , but ends up slicing it high , the fielder at point takes a good low catch diving to his left. Haq c Naib b Shapoor 31 ( 51 ) [ 4s-3 ] Shapoor to Haq , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 48.6 Naib to Alasdair Evans , no run , fuller in length and outside off , Evans drills the drive towards cover , who gets down to stop the ball , good effort from the fielder as the ball was travelling 48.5 Naib to Alasdair Evans , leg byes , FOUR , what sort of french cricket is this ? Evans shuffles across and looks to scoop it fine on the on-side , but the ball instead takes the pad and runs away past the fielder at short third man , four leg byes for Scotland , they would n't mind it one bit 48.4 Naib to Alasdair Evans , 2 runs , on a good length and around off , Evans pushes it square of the wicket and the batsmen hare back for the second 48.3 Naib to Alasdair Evans , no run , has another wild swing at a fullish delivery outside off , the ball goes past the outside edge 48.2 Naib to Alasdair Evans , FOUR , slower delivery outside off , Evans lofts it over mid-off and the ball runs away to the fence , he premeditated the shot and knew that the ball will be a slower one 48.1 Naib to Alasdair Evans , no run , slower delivery slightly wide outside off , Evans looks to go for the drive , but ca n't connect Gulbadin Naib [ 8.0-0-47-1 ] is back into the attack 47.6 Shapoor to Haq , FOUR , short and wide outside off , Haq slashes hard at it , the ball takes the outside edge and runs away to the third man fence , 50 of the partnership comes up 47.5 Shapoor to Haq , no run , short ball angling in , Haq fails to connect with the clip and is hit high on the thigh 47.5 Shapoor to Haq , no ball , FOUR , what happened there ? Shapoor has been given a warning for bowling a beamer. It was a very high and angling down leg , Haq just helps it past the short fine leg fielder for four runs , this is now the highest score for Scotland in World Cups 47.4 Shapoor to Haq , 2 runs , angling on the pads , Haq plays the pick up shot over mid-wicket , the fielder from deep square leg gets around and keeps them down to a couple 47.3 Shapoor to Haq , no run , slower and very full from Shapoor , Haq was looking to slog it , but the lack of pace beats him 47.3 Shapoor to Haq , wide , down the leg-side , wided by the umpire 47.2 Shapoor to Haq , no run , another run-out chance missed ! It was angling in on off , Haq pushes at it , the ball rolls away towards mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat , Evans thought that there was a single there and was a long , long way down , the fielder has a shy at the stumps , but he ca n't get a direct hit , Evans survives Back over the wicket 47.1 Shapoor to Alasdair Evans , 1 run , low full toss outside off from round the wicket , Evans drives it towards mid-off and sets off , the fielder has a shy , but the batsman was in Shapoor Zadran [ 8.0-1-21-2 ] is back into the attack 46.6 Hamid to Haq , no run , comes round the wicket and bowls this just short of a good length delivery just outside off , Haq pokes at it and the ball goes past the outside edge 46.5 Hamid to Alasdair Evans , 1 run , backs away and looks to dig out the yorker , gets an inside edge that rolls away down to third man 46.4 Hamid to Alasdair Evans , no run , on a good length and around off , Evans pushes it into the off-side 46.3 Hamid to Alasdair Evans , no run , back of a length delivery from Hamid , Evans looks to flat-bat it but gets it high off the bat , the ball goes in the air to the left of the bowler , who was probably trying to take it first , then thought about doing the cartwheel as he knew the ball was very far away. At the end , he could n't do both things right 46.2 Hamid to Alasdair Evans , no run , full and on off and middle , Evans squeezes it out towards mid-on 46.1 Hamid to Alasdair Evans , no run , angling on leg , Evans fails to clip it into the on-side and wears it high on the thigh pad , it was high and going down though Hamid Hassan [ 9.0-1-31-1 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Nabi to Haq , no run , quicker one on the stumps , Haq defends it back towards the bowler 45.5 Nabi to Haq , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Haq punches it towards mid-wicket , who dives to his right and stops the ball 45.4 Nabi to Alasdair Evans , 1 run , drifting on middle and leg , Evans works it with the turn to deep mid-wicket 45.3 Nabi to Haq , 1 run , gives this one more air outside off , Haq drives it past a diving cover off the front foot , the batsmen take another run 45.2 Nabi to Haq , no run , touch flatter outside off , Haq pushes it towards cover 45.1 Nabi to Haq , no run , pushed through on off , Haq pushes at it , the ball rolls away to his right off the inside half of the bat Mohammad Nabi [ 9.0-0-36-1 ] is back into the attack 44.6 Ahmadi to Alasdair Evans , no run , blocks this flighted delivery on the off stump 44.5 Ahmadi to Alasdair Evans , no run , pushed through on off and middle , Evans defends 44.4 Ahmadi to Haq , 1 run , floated on off , Haq bunts it down to long-on 44.3 Ahmadi to Alasdair Evans , 1 run , eases this flighted delivery down to long-on 44.2 Ahmadi to Haq , 5 runs , run-out chance missed ! It was floated up on off , Haq drives with an open face to point and sets off , the fielder has a shy at the bowler 's end and just misses the stumps , the bowler does n't collect it and the fielder in the deep did a poor job of backing up there , misfields and the ball runs away for 4 extra runs apart from the single Comes round the wicket 44.1 Ahmadi to Alasdair Evans , 1 run , drifts it down leg , Evans shuffles across and works it behind square for a single Javed Ahmadi , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 43.6 Naib to Alasdair Evans , 1 run , glanced away fine for a single , retains strike 43.5 Naib to Alasdair Evans , no run , back of a length around off , Evans gets behind the line and blocks it to cover 43.4 Naib to Haq , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Haq drives it with an open bat face square of the wicket on the off-side 43.4 Naib to Haq , wide , slips the slower one down leg , wide signalled 43.3 Naib to Haq , no run , good length ball on off , Haq defends it towards cover , shouts " no " for the single 43.2 Naib to Haq , 2 runs , full toss outside off , Haq slaps it wide of sweeper cover and hares back for the second 43.1 Naib to Haq , no run , fuller and outside off , Haq drives and misses , the ball fizzes past the outside edge 42.6 Shapoor to Haq , 1 run , fullish and close to off , Haq pushes at it and the ball squirts off the inside edge to deep backward square 42.5 Shapoor to Haq , no run , slanting in on off , Haq turns it gently towards mid-on 42.4 Shapoor to Haq , no run , back of a length and bit of extra bounce , Haq jabs at it and fends it to the off-side 42.3 Shapoor to Haq , 2 runs , goes over the wicket and angles it in , Haq nudges it to deep mid-wicket , he was slow to turn but gets the second in the end 42.2 Shapoor to Alasdair Evans , 1 run , on a length close to off , Evans drops it to the right of point and scampers across for a quick single 42.1 Shapoor to Alasdair Evans , no run , edged and safe ! Short of a length and in the channel around off , Evans pokes and gets an outside edge , he played it with soft hands and hence did n't carry to the slip fielder Shapoor Zadran [ 7.0-1-17-2 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Naib to Haq , no run , Haq is looking to bat out the full quota of overs as he lets this one go to the keeper 41.5 Naib to Haq , no run , good length ball just outside off , Haq lifts his bat and lets it go 41.5 Naib to Haq , wide , splays it down leg , Haq did n't bother with it , some excerise for the umpire 41.4 Naib to Alasdair Evans , 1 run , too straight , on middle and leg , Evans glances it down to fine leg 41.3 Naib to Alasdair Evans , no run , back of a length on off , Evans bunts it in front of cover 41.2 Naib to Alasdair Evans , no run , fuller and around off , Evans presses forward and blocks it to cover 41.1 Naib to Alasdair Evans , FOUR , where is third man ? Fullish and outside off , Evans reaches out and drives , the ball takes the outside edge and runs down to the vacant third man region Gulbadin Naib [ 6.0-0-36-1 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Dawlat Zadran to Haq , no run , back of a length and close to off , Haq jabs at it , the ball hits the shoulder and goes to the left of the slip fielder. Evans was halfway down the wicket before Haq sends him back. Dawlat 's speed is such that the bat is broken and Haq calls for a replacement. A great amount of wood chipped off as ball made contact with the bat. Dawlat finishes a terrific spell , his figures read : 10-1-29-3 40.5 Dawlat Zadran to Haq , no run , slanted across off , left alone 40.4 Dawlat Zadran to Haq , no run , back of a length on off , Haq gets his bat behind the line and defends to the off-side 40.3 Dawlat Zadran to Alasdair Evans , 1 run , too full and around off , almost a yorker , Evans squeezes it down to third man 40.2 Dawlat Zadran to Haq , 1 run , fuller and hint of away movement , Haq plays it with soft hands and the outside edge rolls down to third man 40.1 Dawlat Zadran to Haq , no run , superb line from Dawlat , close to the off-stump and it was angled across the left-hander , Haq has a feel for it away from the body , is beaten all ends up The batting powerplay yielded 13 runs and the wicket of Berrington . 39.6 Hamid to Alasdair Evans , FOUR , super shot ! It was overpitched and Evans puts it away. He comes on the front foot and caresses the drive through the off-side , no one protecting the sweeper fence 39.5 Hamid to Alasdair Evans , no run , fuller and just outside off , Evans prods forward and pushes , the ball rolls off the inside edge to mid-wicket 39.4 Hamid to Haq , 1 run , back of a length on off , Haq stays in the crease and nurdles it to deep square leg 39.3 Hamid to Alasdair Evans , 1 run , good length ball and straightens , Evans is squared up as he tries to defend , the ball squirts off the outside edge to third man 39.2 Hamid to Alasdair Evans , no run , Hassan has beaten the bat on a numerous occasions and this one such instance , on a length close to off , Evans pokes at it with laden feet , the ball fizzes past the outside edge 39.1 Hamid to Alasdair Evans , no run , fullish and on the fourth stump , Evans pushes it to cover 38.6 Dawlat Zadran to Haq , no run , fuller and on off , Haq comes forward , opens the bat face and guides it to backward point 38.5 Dawlat Zadran to Haq , no run , too far outside off , Haq is happy to let it go to the keeper 38.4 Dawlat Zadran to Haq , no run , shortens the length around off , Haq hoists his bat up and lets it pass 38.3 Dawlat Zadran to Haq , no run , on a length slanted across off , Haq lifts his bat and lets it go 38.2 Dawlat Zadran to Haq , no run , good length ball on off , Haq was late in bringing his bat down , but gets there in time to keep it out 38.1 Dawlat Zadran to Alasdair Evans , 1 run , direct hit and Evans was a goner , turns this length delivery towards mid-wicket and takes off for a risky single , the fielder has a go at the bowlers end , misses the target by a couple of inches. Evans would have been out by a long way Change of gloves for Haq. That is holding up play. He has got a new pair and is ready to resume . 37.6 Hamid to Haq , FOUR , poor delivery to end the over , full toss outside off , this time Haq does not miss out , he slashes it with an open face to the right of backward point. The ball hurried across to the fence 37.5 Hamid to Haq , no run , good length ball around off , Haq presses forward and taps it towards point 37.4 Hamid to Haq , no run , bumper just outside off , Haq sees it sail past him , the umpire signals one for the over 37.3 Hamid to Haq , no run , back of a length just outside off , Haq lifts his bat and lets it go 37.2 Hamid to Haq , no run , on a length close to off , defended off the front foot to cover 37.1 Hamid to Haq , no run , full toss outside off , Haq fails to lay bat on that , he did n't get the yorker right 36.6 Dawlat Zadran to Alasdair Evans , no run , fuller and around off , Evans drives it gently to mid-off 36.5 Dawlat Zadran to Alasdair Evans , no run , angled in on middle , Evans shuffles across and misses the flick , wears it on the pad , no appeal for lbw as it was sneaking down leg Alasdair Evans , right handed bat , comes to the crease 36.4 Dawlat Zadran to Berrington , out Caught by Zazai ! ! Excellent bowling from Dawlat. He has been outstanding today. After getting a couple to nip back in , he gets this to tail away. Berrington had to play at it and can manage only an outside edge , the ball goes low and to the right of the keeper , Zazai does well to hang onto it. Berrington c Zazai b Dawlat Zadran 25 ( 46 ) [ 4s-2 ] Dawlat Zadran to Berrington , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 36.3 Dawlat Zadran to Berrington , no run , takes a couple of steps down the wicket and knocks it to the right of the bowler 36.2 Dawlat Zadran to Berrington , no run , peach ! This was very similar to the ball that got Coetzer out. Jags back in from a length , Berrington misses the forward defensive , the ball beats the inside edge and goes over the stumps. Berrington has a look at the pitch 36.1 Dawlat Zadran to Berrington , no run , good length ball around off , Berrington presses it to cover after leaning forward 36.1 Dawlat Zadran to Berrington , wide , splays it down leg , Berrington fails to tickle it , wided by the umpire Dawlat Zadran [ 7.0-1-25-2 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Hamid to Haq , no run , drags the length back outside off , Haq lifts his bat and lets it go 35.5 Hamid to Haq , no run , on a length just outside off , Haq shoulders arms 35.4 Hamid to Berrington , 1 run , Berrington has been pushed back by those first three deliveries , but this is full and around off , Berrington ekes out an inside edge onto the pad and the ball rolls behind square 35.3 Hamid to Berrington , no run , shortens the length around off , Berrington looks to defend , the ball holds its line and beats the outside edge 35.2 Hamid to Berrington , no run , back of a length around off , Berrington bunts it to the off-side 35.1 Hamid to Berrington , no run , Hassan goes up for lbw , but the umpire is unmoved. This one nips back in , Berrington stays rooted to the crease , defends it to the off-side. Afghanistan thought it was pad first , but the umpire did n't think so Hamid Hassan [ 6.0-1-20-1 ] is back into the attack The batting powerplay has been enforced ! 34.6 Shapoor to Haq , no run , shortens the length on middle , Haq stays in the crease and bunts it in front of short mid-wicket 34.5 Shapoor to Berrington , 1 run , low full toss outside off , Berrington leans into the drive square of the wicket. It was the attempted yorker from Shapoor 34.4 Shapoor to Berrington , no run , short of length on off , delivered from round the wicket , Berrington rides the bounce and guides it towards backward point , there was a single on offer but Haq was not interested 34.3 Shapoor to Haq , 1 run , back of a length on middle , Haq nurdles it behind square on the leg-side 34.2 Shapoor to Haq , no run , good length ball on off , Haq blocks it back to the bowler 34.1 Shapoor to Haq , no run , dug in short and around off , Haq drops his wrists it and lets it pass 33.6 Nabi to Berrington , FOUR , lovely shot ! Touch too full from Nabi , Berrington gets a good stride forward and caresses the drive between extra cover and mid-off. The rich timing takes it to the fence 33.5 Nabi to Haq , 1 run , slower and on the stumps , Haq rolls his wrists glances it to short fine leg 33.4 Nabi to Haq , no run , goes on with the arm from round the wicket , Haq pushes it to cover 33.3 Nabi to Berrington , 1 run , leans forward and nudges it wide of mid-wicket for a single 33.2 Nabi to Berrington , no run , tossed up on off , Berrington goes down on one knee and misses the sweep , no appeal for lbw as the impact was just outside off 33.1 Nabi to Berrington , no run , flighted on off , Berrington presses forward and defends to the off-side Jamie Alter talks about the vociferous crowd at Dunedin : " There 's a group of Afghanistan supporters giving the Barmy Army a run for their money. Drums , flags , cheers , chants. Good spirit. " 32.6 Shapoor to Haq , no run , huge shout for caught behind , but the umpire is not interested. Good decision from the ump as it came off the pad , slides it onto the pads , Haq fails to connect with the flick , the ball brushes the pad on the way to the keeper Majid Haq , left handed bat , comes to the crease Time for the second drinks break ! Afghanistan are right on top. They have kept plugging away at the wickets. None of the Scottish batsmen have got going and most of them have failed to convert starts. They need something special from their lower-order to put up a competitive total on the board . 32.5 Shapoor to Davey , out Caught by Hamid ! ! What a celebration ! Hamid takes a good low catch. Stays down and stretches his hands in joy. He then tries to do a cartwheel , which he still ca n't get it right. Remember he did that when he got Sanga out in the previous game. It was a needless shot from Davey , looks to drive the full delivery , does n't bother to keep it down , picks out mid-off to perfection. Davey c Hamid b Shapoor 1 ( 9 ) Shapoor to Davey , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 32.4 Shapoor to Davey , no run , back of a length just outside off , Davey knocks it down the wicket 32.3 Shapoor to Davey , no run , full and outside off , Davey push-drives it to cover 32.2 Shapoor to Davey , no run , short of length on off , Davey goes on his toes and fends it to the right of the bowler 32.1 Shapoor to Davey , no run , continues round the wicket , fuller and just outside off , Davey drives without much timing to cover 31.6 Nabi to Davey , 1 run , floated up on off , Davey eases it down to long-on 31.5 Nabi to Davey , no run , slower and close to off , Davey turns it gently towards short mid-wicket 31.4 Nabi to Berrington , 1 run , kneels down and sweeps it behind square leg for a single 31.3 Nabi to Berrington , no run , flighted around off , Berrington leans forward and pushes it to the left of the bowler 31.2 Nabi to Berrington , no run , comes down the track and drives it to the right of Nabi , who throws it back to the keeper , Berrington had to dive in to make his ground and he does so comfortably 31.1 Nabi to Berrington , no run , Zazai juggled a couple of times before hanging onto this. And as soon as he took it , he called for the review. Nabi was not that confident. The tossed up delivery on middle , Berrington presses forward and misses the defence , the ball turns back in and hits the pad before deflecting to the keeper. There was no inside edge and the ball was just kissing the stumps. Hence the on-field call remains Afghanistan have reviewed a caught behind appeal. Zazai seemed very confident. No issues with the front foot. Did he get an inside edge ? It is close to being lbw as well. If there is no bat involved then they will check if the batsman is out lbw. Snicko does not pick up out anything when the ball passes the bat. So , now we move onto the Hawk-Eye. It pitched in-line and was just clipping the top of the stumps. Berrington survives ! 30.6 Shapoor to Davey , no run , yorker just outside off , Davey squeezes it off the toe-end to the left of the bowler 30.5 Shapoor to Davey , no run , on a length close to off , Davey presses it to cover after coming forward Josh Davey , right handed bat , comes to the crease 30.4 Shapoor to Matthew Cross , out Caught by Zazai ! ! Superb catch from the keeper. That was an acrobatic take from Zazai. Short of a length and close to off , Cross had to play at it , the ball shapes away enough to take the outside edge and flies to the right of the keeper , who dives full length and hangs onto it with one hand. Shapoor is ecstatic as he celebrates with his hands pointing skywards. Matthew Cross c Zazai b Shapoor 15 ( 26 ) [ 4s-1 ] Shapoor to Matthew Cross , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 30.3 Shapoor to Matthew Cross , no run , back of a length around off , Cross hangs back and dabs it to backward point 30.3 Shapoor to Matthew Cross , wide , he will have to bowl that again as it is too far outside off and the umpire calls it 30.2 Shapoor to Berrington , 1 run , digs it in mid-way down the wicket , Berrington pulls it to deep backward square leg 30.1 Shapoor to Berrington , no run , starts from round the wicket , on a length just outside off , Berrington lets it through to the keeper Shapoor Zadran [ 4.0-0-13-0 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Nabi to Matthew Cross , no run , another on on the pads , Cross works it towards square leg 29.6 Nabi to Matthew Cross , wide , down the leg-side , wided by the umpire 29.5 Nabi to Matthew Cross , no run , turns this delivery on middle and leg to square leg 29.4 Nabi to Berrington , 1 run , touch flatter from Nabi , Berrington bunts it down to long-on 29.3 Nabi to Berrington , no run , floated up on the stumps , turned to mid-wicket 29.2 Nabi to Berrington , 2 runs , flatter outside off , Berrington rocks back and punches it through the cover , there was no one in the deep and the cover fielder ca n't prevent the couple as he hunts it down 29.1 Nabi to Matthew Cross , 1 run , pushed through on middle and leg , Cross turns it past mid-wicket for a single 28.6 Naib to Berrington , 2 runs , touch fuller and outside off , Berrington drives it through the covers , the batsmen run for a brace before the fielder from sweeper cover comes around and tidies up 28.5 Naib to Berrington , no run , on a good length and shaping away just outside off , Berrington pokes at it away from his body , the ball goes past his outside edge 28.4 Naib to Berrington , FOUR , poor ball from Naib , it was short , wide and deserved to be put away , Berrington stays back and cuts it in the air square of the wicket for a boundary , the fielder at third man had no chance of cutting that off 28.3 Naib to Matthew Cross , 1 run , just short of a good length and shaping away just a touch from outside off , Cross jabs at it and gets it past backward point for a single 28.2 Naib to Matthew Cross , no run , on a good length and just outside off , pushes to cover off the front foot 28.1 Naib to Berrington , 1 run , back of a length delivery angling down leg , Berrington helps it away behind square Gulbadin Naib [ 5.0-0-28-1 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Nabi to Berrington , 1 run , floated up on middle and leg , Berrington clips it to deep mid-wicket , he will keep the strike 27.5 Nabi to Matthew Cross , 1 run , floated up on leg , Cross works it to the right of mid-wicket , the fielder puts in the dive and prevents the batsmen from taking the second run 27.4 Nabi to Berrington , 1 run , touch quicker on leg , Berrington kneels down and sweeps it behind square for a single 27.3 Nabi to Berrington , no run , flatter outside off , Berrington punches it off the back foot to cover 27.2 Nabi to Matthew Cross , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Cross drives it to long-off 27.2 Nabi to Matthew Cross , 5 wides , poor delivery , way down the leg-side , the batsman leaves and the keeper also ca n't get around it , it runs away to the fence and those are 5 extra runs for the batting side 27.1 Nabi to Matthew Cross , no run , floated up just around off , Cross defends The keeper finally gets the helmet after one ball bounced extra in the last over from Nabi 26.6 Hamid to Berrington , no run , on a good length and in the channel outside off , Berrington lifts his bat and lets it go through to the keeper 26.5 Hamid to Berrington , no run , another good yorker on the stumps , Berrington squeezes it out to mid-on 26.4 Hamid to Berrington , no run , short of length delivery on the stumps , Berrington pushes it into the off-side off the back foot 26.3 Hamid to Berrington , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Berrington hops in the crease and drops it in front of point 26.2 Hamid to Matthew Cross , 1 run , full delivery outside off , Cross looks to drive , the ball runs away down to third man after taking a thick outside edge 26.1 Hamid to Matthew Cross , no run , yorker on the stumps , Cross jams it out back to the bowler 25.6 Nabi to Matthew Cross , 1 run , tossed up on middle , Cross drives it to long-on 25.5 Nabi to Matthew Cross , no run , pushed through on middle , Cross shuffles across and works it a little uppishly towards short mid-wicket 25.4 Nabi to Matthew Cross , no run , this one he gets to shape away and beats Cross , who was pushing at it , the keeper was surprised too as the ball bounces a touch extra as well 25.3 Nabi to Berrington , 1 run , gives the charge and works this with the turn to deep mid-wicket 25.2 Nabi to Matthew Cross , 1 run , floated on off and middle , Cross eases it past the non-striker for a single 25.1 Nabi to Matthew Cross , no run , quicker just outside off , Cross jabs it into the off-side 24.6 Hamid to Berrington , no run , jumps in the crease and bunts this shortish delivery from Hamid into the off-side 24.5 Hamid to Berrington , no run , that 's a peach ! It was just short of a good length and around off , Berrington was pushing at it , the ball moves away just a touch and beats the outside edge , Berrington was clueless there 24.4 Hamid to Berrington , no run , short of length delivery on the stumps , Berrington hops in the crease and defends it to his right 24.3 Hamid to Matthew Cross , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Cross drops it into the off-side and sets off 24.2 Hamid to Matthew Cross , no run , very full on off , Cross defends 24.1 Hamid to Matthew Cross , FOUR , goes for a boundary first ball of his new spell , it was overpitched outside off , Cross squeezes it out after opening the face of the bat and gets it past backward point , the ball races through the quick outfield and into the fence Hamid Hassan [ 4.0-1-14-1 ] is back into the attack Hamid Hassan comes back , replacing Naib 23.6 Nabi to Berrington , no run , on middle and leg , Berrington shuffles across just a touch and works it to mid-wicket 23.5 Nabi to Matthew Cross , 1 run , clips this flighted delivery on middle to deep mid-wicket for a single 23.4 Nabi to Matthew Cross , no run , floated up outside off , Cross pushed it back to the bowler off the outside half of the bat , closed the bat face a little too early there , sort of a soft leading edge 23.3 Nabi to Berrington , 1 run , tossed up on off , Berrington turns it past mid-wicket for a single 23.2 Nabi to Matthew Cross , 1 run , touch fuller and just outside off , Cross whips it through mid-wicket for a single 23.1 Nabi to Matthew Cross , no run , gives this one more air just outside off , Cross defends it into the off-side 22.6 Naib to Berrington , no run , good carry this time as Berrington leaves this just short of a good length ball outside off , the keeper collects 22.5 Naib to Berrington , no run , in the channel outside off , Berrington pushes it towards mid-off after coming forward 22.4 Naib to Matthew Cross , 1 run , fuller outside off , Cross drives past a diving short cover and gets off the mark with a single before the fielder at mid-off moves to his left and fields 22.3 Naib to Matthew Cross , no run , on a good length and shaping away , Cross is happy to leave that one for the keeper A slip is in place now Matthew Cross , right handed bat , comes to the crease 22.2 Naib to Mommsen , out Caught by Zazai ! ! This time he gets the edge and captain Mommsen is out. It was the leg-cutter from Naib , Mommsen pokes at it away from his body , the ball moves away and takes the outside edge to the keeper. Naib is delighted with this breakthrough. Half the Scotland side is back in the hut now. Mommsen c Zazai b Naib 23 ( 36 ) [ 4s-4 ] Naib to Mommsen , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 22.1 Naib to Mommsen , no run , fuller delivery with a hint of away movement , Mommsen gets drawn into the drive and the ball shapes past his outside edge 21.6 Nabi to Berrington , 2 runs , quicker one from Nabi , Berrington shuffles across and nurdles it fine , the batsmen take two before the short fine leg fielder hunts the ball down 21.5 Nabi to Berrington , no run , down the leg-side , Berrington flicks it straight to backward square leg 21.4 Nabi to Berrington , no run , shuffles across and wrists this flighted delivery towards mid-wicket 21.3 Nabi to Berrington , no run , floated up on off , Berrington pushes it to cover Richie Berrington , right handed bat , comes to the crease 21.2 Nabi to Machan , out Bowled ! ! That 's a poor , poor shot from Machan. He has thrown it away after another good start. It was bowled a touch slower and on off , Machan makes room and wanted to go inside-out over cover , he fails to connect and the ball crashes into off. An unnecessary risk at this stage and Scotland are 4 down now. Machan b Nabi 31 ( 28 ) [ 4s-4 ] Nabi to Machan , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 21.1 Nabi to Mommsen , 1 run , flighted delivery on off and middle , Mommsen turns it in front of mid-wicket and sets off , the batsmen complete the single quite easily at the end 20.6 Naib to Mommsen , 1 run , fullish outside off , Mommsen leans forward and drives it to the left of mid-off , the batsmen pinch a quick run 20.5 Naib to Mommsen , no run , in the channel outside off , Mommsen lets this one go 20.4 Naib to Machan , 1 run , square of the wicket , fuller delivery outside off , Machan goes for the drive , the bat turns in his hand and he ends up slicing it square of the wicket , the fielder was point at interested at first , but it was well over him 20.3 Naib to Machan , no run , low full toss outside off , Machan drives and picks out cover 20.2 Naib to Machan , no run , shortish and wide outside off , Machan goes hard at it , but the ball goes past his blade. It was very close to the tram line as well 20.1 Naib to Machan , 2 runs , goes wide of the crease and it was very close to the side line , on a good length and outside off , Machan opens the face of the bat and bunts it past backward point , the batsmen take a couple before the sweeper tidies up Naib comes round the wicket 19.6 Nabi to Mommsen , no run , pushed through on middle and leg , Mommsen stays back and defends it into the on-side 19.5 Nabi to Mommsen , no run , tossed up just outside off , Mommsen pushes it towards cover 19.4 Nabi to Machan , 1 run , floated up on the stumps , Machan eases it down to long-on 19.3 Nabi to Machan , no run , an appeal for lbw , but it was going down leg. It was the quicker one on middle and leg , Machan goes for the sweep , but fails to connect and wears it on the pad. The ball was snaking down leg though 19.2 Nabi to Machan , no run , floated up on off , Machan drives it towards cover 19.1 Nabi to Machan , 2 runs , flighted delivery around off , Machan kneels down and sweeps hard towards deep backward square leg , where a fumble allows the batsmen to come back for the second 18.6 Naib to Machan , 1 run , angling away outside off , Machan stays back , opens the face of the bat and dabs it towards squarish third man 18.5 Naib to Mommsen , 1 run , tucks it away to square leg and the batsmen cross over 18.4 Naib to Mommsen , FOUR , another great shot , this time from Mommsen. It was full and outside off , Mommsen drives it through the cover , the fielder at cover-point should have done better there , but he dives and still ca n't stop the ball , the bowler wo n't be happy with that effort as the ball ran away to the fence 18.3 Naib to Mommsen , no run , angles this one on off and middle , Mommsen shuffles across and pushes it into the on-side 18.2 Naib to Machan , 1 run , on a good length and angled across off , Machan pushes at it with soft hands , gets a thick edge that runs away past a diving slip , the third man fielder gets around and keeps the batsmen down to a single 18.1 Naib to Machan , FOUR , classic shot ! It was full and outside off , Machan leans forward and drives it through the covers , the fielder at sweeper cover had to move a few metres to his left , but he had no chance there , raced away to the fence 17.6 Nabi to Machan , 1 run , touch flatter from Nabi this time , Machan goes back and punches it to long-off , he will keep the strike 17.5 Nabi to Machan , no run , gives this one more air and on the stumps , Machan defends with a straight bat 17.4 Nabi to Machan , no run , floated up just outside off , Machan opens the face of the bat and pushes it behind square on the off-side Comes round the wicket to the left-hander. There 's a slip in place 17.3 Nabi to Mommsen , 1 run , goes down on one knee and paddles this tossed up delivery just outside off to fine leg 17.2 Nabi to Mommsen , no run , flighted delivery around off , Mommsen gives the charge and defends it back to the bowler 17.1 Nabi to Mommsen , no run , slowish just outside off , Mommsen lunges forward in defence Mohammad Nabi , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Introduction of spin for the first time as captain Nabi comes onto bowl . 16.6 Naib to Machan , no run , back of a length delivery this time , Machan defends from the crease 16.5 Naib to Machan , FOUR , on a good length and angled on off , Machan pushes at it with laden feet , gets a thick outside edge that runs past a diving slip , the ball races away to the fence 16.4 Naib to Machan , FOUR , good shot from Machan , it was fullish and shaping away outside off , Machan reaches to the pitch of the ball and drives it through the cover region , the fielder at cover-point gives chase , but the ball runs away 16.3 Naib to Machan , no run , angling away outside off , Machan thinks about playing at that , but leaves it at the last moment by pulling his bat back 16.2 Naib to Machan , no run , full again and slightly wide outside off , Machan lifts his bat and lets it go 16.1 Naib to Machan , no run , fuller in length and angled across off , Machan pushes at it , gets an inside edge onto the pad 15.6 Dawlat Zadran to Mommsen , no run , in the channel just outside off , Mommsen leans forward and defends it into the off-side 15.5 Dawlat Zadran to Mommsen , no run , on a length and on off , Mommsen presses forward and blocks 15.4 Dawlat Zadran to Mommsen , no run , on a good length and on off , Mommsen lunges forward in defence 15.3 Dawlat Zadran to Mommsen , no run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Mommsen stays back and defends it back to the bowler with a straight bat 15.2 Dawlat Zadran to Machan , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Machan waits back and runs it down to third man after opening the face of the bat 15.1 Dawlat Zadran to Machan , FOUR , overpitching little wide outside off , Machan reaches out and drives it to the left of backward point , the fielder gives chase , but the ball beats him to the fence The drinks trolley arrives on the field. Jamie analyses the first 15 overs ,  Scotland  s batsmen have been guilty of getting themselves out. The Zadrans and Hassan have bowled in the right areas for the most part , barring a few short and wide deliveries that were punished , all three wickets have been owned to poor footwork. This track has some carry on it. If it evens out in the afternoon sun - its 14 degrees right now but expected to warm up - there could be runs on offer.  14.6 Naib to Mommsen , no run , shortens the length , Mommsen goes back and taps it gently towards cover 14.5 Naib to Mommsen , no run , on a length just outside off , Mommsen has nothing to do with it 14.4 Naib to Mommsen , no run , good length ball on off , Mommsen presses forward , defends with bat and pad close together 14.3 Naib to Mommsen , FOUR , ca n't bowl short at that pace. It is around 120kph , Mommsen has all the time in the world , to rock back and pull it in front of square , the ball bounces only once before reaching the fence 14.2 Naib to Mommsen , no run , superb delivery , teasing length from Naib , full and invites the batsman to drive , Mommsen does so , away from the body , the ball curls in and beats the inside edge. It was not far away from the off-stump either 14.1 Naib to Mommsen , no run , on a length just outside off , Mommsen shoulders arms to it. This one hardly carried to the keeper Gulbadin Naib , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 13.6 Dawlat Zadran to Mommsen , leg byes , 1 run , slides one onto leg-stump , Mommsen fails to nail the flick , picks up a leg bye as the ball tickles off the pad towards backward square Hamid Hassan is getting some treatment done on his right knee , just outside the boundary rope. He has not left the field though , it was in between balls . 13.5 Dawlat Zadran to Mommsen , no run , good length ball around off , Mommsen lifts his bat and lets it go 13.4 Dawlat Zadran to Mommsen , no run , well directed yorker , aimed right at the base of off , Mommsen manages to bring his bat down and jam it back to the bowler 13.3 Dawlat Zadran to Mommsen , no run , shortens the length around off , Mommsen rides the bounce and guides it to backward point 13.2 Dawlat Zadran to Mommsen , 2 runs , too straight , on off and middle , Mommsen gets inside the line and clips it to deep mid-wicket , the call was for two and he gets it easily 13.1 Dawlat Zadran to Mommsen , FOUR , superb shot ! It was a half volley alright , but still needed to be put away. Mommsen presses forward and creams the drive through cover , none of the fielders moved as the ball raced away to the fence 12.6 Hamid to Machan , no run , fullish and on the fourth stump line , Machan drives off the inside part to mid-off 12.5 Hamid to Machan , no run , on a length around off , Machan is half-forward and knocks it towards point 12.4 Hamid to Mommsen , 1 run , full toss on the stumps , might have been the attempted yorker , Mommsen works it off the inner half to the left of square leg 12.3 Hamid to Mommsen , no run , full and close to off , Mommsen defends it solidly off the front foot to mid-off 12.2 Hamid to Machan , 1 run , shortens the length around off , Machan waits for it and dabs it to square third man 12.1 Hamid to Machan , 2 runs , continues round the sticks for the left-hander , fullish and outside off , Machan drives it to the right of mid-off , Stanikzai makes a mess of it and allows the second run to be taken 11.6 Dawlat Zadran to Mommsen , FOUR , poor delivery to end a very good over , short and wide outside off , Mommsen gets on top of the bounce and cracks the cut through cover-point , the timing takes it to the fence 11.5 Dawlat Zadran to Mommsen , no run , fuller and curling away outside off , Mommsen lifts his bat and lets it go 11.4 Dawlat Zadran to Mommsen , no run , another appeal for lbw , the umpire shakes his head and says not-out. Jags back in from short of length , Mommsen remains stuck in the crease and misses the nudge through the on-side , is hit high on the pads. Height was a factor there 11.3 Dawlat Zadran to Mommsen , no run , pitched up just outside off , Mommsen pushes it rather tentatively towards point , he shouts " wait " for the single 11.2 Dawlat Zadran to Mommsen , no run , fuller and attacking the stumps , Mommsen presents the full face and defends down the wicket Preston Mommsen , right handed bat , comes to the crease 11.1 Dawlat Zadran to Coetzer , out Bowled ! ! Cleaned up ! That is a peach of a delivery. Afghanistan are delighted as they have picked up 2 wickets in 3 balls. This though is a huge wicket. The in-form batsman has been dismissed. Nip-backer from Dawlat , it was full as well , Coetzer goes for the drive and leaves a gap between bat-pad , the ball goes past the inside edge and hits the top of off-stump. Coetzer b Dawlat Zadran 25 ( 41 ) [ 4s-5 ] Dawlat Zadran to Coetzer , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 10.6 Hamid to Machan , 2 runs , goes round the wicket straightaway , angles it in on middle , Machan jumps up and nurdles it behind square for a brace Matt Machan , left handed bat , comes to the crease 10.5 Hamid to Gardiner , out Lbw ! ! Hassan has his man now ! Third time lucky. Full and tails back in , Gardiner stays in the crease and fails to connect with the clip , is rapped low on the pads. The umpire took his time before raising his finger. The batsmen discussed whether to take the review or not , in the end they do n't go through with it. The ball seemed to be crashing into leg-stump. Gardiner lbw b Hamid 5 ( 20 ) Hamid to Gardiner , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 10.4 Hamid to Gardiner , no run , another huge shout , this time for a caught behind. Gardiner shuffles across and looks to flick , he misses and the ball brushes the thigh pad on the way to the keeper. Once again , Afghanistan do n't take the review 10.3 Hamid to Gardiner , no run , loud shout for lbw , but the umpire is not interested. Afghans ponder over a review , but do n't go through with it. Good call as the batsman got an inside edge. Nips back in from a length , Gardiner stays rooted to the crease and ekes out an inside edge onto the back pad. The impact was just outside off 10.2 Hamid to Gardiner , no run , fuller and around off , Gardiner drives it back to the bowler , who mocks throws at the striker 's end 10.1 Hamid to Gardiner , no run , tight line from Hassan , on off-stump , Gardiner gets half-forward and defends off the inner half to the right of the bowler 9.6 Dawlat Zadran to Coetzer , no run , back of a length on the fourth stump line , Coetzer punches it to mid-off , no timing on that 9.5 Dawlat Zadran to Gardiner , 1 run , on a length close to off , Gardiner opens the bat face at the last instant , runs it past gully and down to third man 9.4 Dawlat Zadran to Gardiner , 2 runs , short and outside off , Gardiner cuts it hard to square third man , comes back for two before the ball is fielded 9.3 Dawlat Zadran to Coetzer , leg byes , 1 run , once again , the batsman is hurried for pace , Coetzer was late to bring his bat down , the ball hits the thigh pad and dribbles behind square 9.2 Dawlat Zadran to Gardiner , leg byes , 1 run , shortens the length on leg-stump , Gardiner is late on the glance , the ball thuds into the thigh pad and rolls to fine leg 9.1 Dawlat Zadran to Gardiner , no run , fuller and outside off , Gardiner walks forward and defends it with soft hands towards point Dawlat Zadran [ 3.0-1-7-1 ] is back into the attack 8.6 Hamid to Coetzer , no run , too far outside off to interest Coetzer in playing at that , left alone 8.5 Hamid to Coetzer , no run , short of length and close to off , Coetzer gets behind the line and blocks it to mid-on 8.4 Hamid to Coetzer , no run , the attempted yorker , ends up being a full toss , Coetzer mistimes the flick to mid-on 8.3 Hamid to Coetzer , no run , on a length and moves away outside off , Coetzer judges it well and lets it go through to the keeper 8.2 Hamid to Coetzer , no run , fraction short and outside off , Coetzer misses out on the cut , he was beaten for pace there 8.1 Hamid to Coetzer , no run , short of length on the fourth stump , Coetzer camps back and blocks it to cover 7.6 Shapoor to Coetzer , 1 run , banged in halfway down the wicket , Coetzer looks to pull with one leg in the air , the ball thuds into the glove and rolls towards fine leg 7.5 Shapoor to Coetzer , no run , another drive which comes right off the meat of the bat , finds cover this time 7.4 Shapoor to Coetzer , no run , short of length on off , Coetzer jumps up and knocks it in front of cover 7.3 Shapoor to Coetzer , no run , pitched up just outside off , Coetzer plays a crisp drive , straight to mid-off. Either side of the fielder and he would have picked up another four 7.2 Shapoor to Coetzer , no run , pulls the length back , Coetzer covers his stumps and shoulders arms 7.1 Shapoor to Gardiner , 1 run , that was well played , fuller and angling away , Gardiner stays rooted to the crease and plays it with loose hands , the ball takes the outside edge and runs down to third man Shapoor Zadran [ 3.0-0-11-0 ] is back into the attack 6.6 Hamid to Coetzer , no run , again , the length is slightly short , Coetzer lifts his bat and lets it go 6.5 Hamid to Coetzer , no run , back of a length close to off , Coetzer gets right behind the line and defends to cover 6.4 Hamid to Coetzer , FOUR , fabulous shot ! This has to be the shot of the day so far. It was slightly overpitched , Coetzer gets a good stride forward and drives it beautifully to the left of the bowler , no chance for the fielder at mid-off 6.3 Hamid to Coetzer , FOUR , sloppy from the fielder , short and just outside off , Coetzer rides the bounce and cuts it uppishly towards third man , the fielder runs around , gets both hands and allows it to go through 6.2 Hamid to Coetzer , no run , homes in from outside off , Coetzer allows it to sail past him 6.1 Hamid to Coetzer , no run , beats the bat straightaway , touch back of a length and around off , Coetzer flashes a cut and fails to make contact. Too close to be playing the cut Hamid Hassan , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 5.6 Dawlat Zadran to Gardiner , no run , good length ball just outside off , Gardiner this time knows where his off-pole is and lets it through to the keeper , who under-arms a throw at the striker 's end , Gardiner was on the move and out of the crease. If that had hit , he would have been out. That was reckless from the batsman 5.5 Dawlat Zadran to Gardiner , no run , beaut ! It was too good a delivery to get a wicket. Angled in and shapes away late , Gardiner had to play at that , he looks to defend and is beaten comprehensively The third slip has been moved to a gully position. . 5.4 Dawlat Zadran to Gardiner , no run , back of a length and shapes away , Gardiner is opened up slightly as he bunts it to point 5.3 Dawlat Zadran to Gardiner , no run , very good channels from Dawlat , in and around the off-stump , Gardiner comes forward , covers his sticks and shoulders arms 5.2 Dawlat Zadran to Gardiner , no run , on a length just outside off , Gardiner lifts his bat and lets it go 5.1 Dawlat Zadran to Gardiner , no run , back of a length and hint of inward movement , Gardiner sits back and blocks it to the off-side 4.6 Shapoor to Coetzer , no run , drags the length back , Coetzer gets behind the line and defends it to cover-point 4.5 Shapoor to Coetzer , FOUR , lovely shot ! Pitched up close to off , Coetzer stays rooted to the crease and allows his arms to reach the ball , lofts it over extra cover and the ball races away on this fast outfield 4.4 Shapoor to Coetzer , no run , back of a length just outside off , it was not all that short for Coetzer to play the cut , there was some extra bounce as well and beats Coetzer 's outside edge 4.3 Shapoor to Gardiner , 1 run , shortens the length , Gardiner shuffles across and tucks it to square leg , there are acres of vacant area on the leg-side 4.2 Shapoor to Gardiner , no run , back of a length on off , Gardiner drops it in front of point , looks for the single that would get him off the mark , Coetzer is not interested though 4.1 Shapoor to Gardiner , no run , fullish and slanted across the right-hander , left alone Jamie Alter gives us his perspective on the start ,  There  s some carry on this surface. Shapoor and Dawlat have both got deliveries to sit up and get the batsmen leaving and missing. A good toss to win. Wardlaw and Davey would have been a handful had Scotland fielded.  3.6 Dawlat Zadran to Coetzer , no run , much better , no room on this occasion , Coetzer hangs back and defends with a straightish bat down the wicket Nabi runs all the way from the slip cordon and has a word with his bowler . 3.5 Dawlat Zadran to Coetzer , FOUR , Coetzer has been critical with anything that has been short and wide. He hops across and cuts it square of the wicket , beats point and cover to collect his second boundary 3.4 Dawlat Zadran to Coetzer , no run , back of a length just outside off , Coetzer punches and finds backward point 3.3 Dawlat Zadran to Coetzer , 2 runs , nips back in from short of length , Coetzer goes back and looks to defend , the ball takes the inside part and rolls towards square leg. There are only two fielders on the leg-side , one at fine leg and the other at mid-on 3.2 Dawlat Zadran to Coetzer , no run , loose from Coetzer , short and wide of off , it was there to be put away , but Coetzer did n't move his feet and flashed at it , the ball zips past the outside edge 3.1 Dawlat Zadran to Coetzer , no run , pitched up around off , Coetzer drives it to mid-off , no real timing on that 2.6 Shapoor to Gardiner , no run , fuller and angled across off , Gardiner comes forward and lets it pass 2.5 Shapoor to Coetzer , 1 run , back of a length on off , Coetzer tucks it to the vacant mid-wicket region 2.4 Shapoor to Coetzer , FOUR , short , wide and four. There was plenty of width on this delivery and Coetzer made full use of it , rocks back and cuts it fiercely in front of point , he has enough power to collect his first boundary 2.3 Shapoor to Coetzer , no run , Shapoor makes use of his height , keeps it back of a length and gets it to rise , Coetzer goes on his toes and steers it to backward point 2.2 Shapoor to Coetzer , no run , cramped for room , Coetzer hops up and blocks it down the wicket , it came off the inside half of the bat 2.1 Shapoor to Coetzer , no run , shortens the length close to off , Coetzer hoists his bat up and lets it pass Hamish Gardiner , right handed bat , comes to the crease 1.6 Dawlat Zadran to MacLeod , out Caught by Najibullah ! ! Afghanistan strike early ! It was not a wicket taking delivery , but they will take it. Short and wide outside off , MacLeod could have hit that anywhere he would have liked , instead picks out the fielder at backward point to perfection. Yet another failure for MacLeod , his scores in the World Cup , 0 , 4 and now 0. Very good take by Najibullah as the ball was travelling. MacLeod c Najibullah b Dawlat Zadran 0 ( 5 ) Dawlat Zadran to MacLeod , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 1.5 Dawlat Zadran to MacLeod , no run , short of length and outside off , MacLeod is happy to let it go 1.4 Dawlat Zadran to MacLeod , no run , back of a length just outside off , MacLeod lifts his bat and lets it go 1.4 Dawlat Zadran to MacLeod , wide , Dawlat still not getting the line right , drifts it down leg , easy call for the umpire 1.3 Dawlat Zadran to Coetzer , leg byes , 1 run , once again slips one onto the pads , Coetzer ca n't connect with the clip and has to be content with a leg bye Our man at the ground , Jamie Alter , has this to say : " Small crowd gathered , mostly supporting Scotland because of Dunedin  s Scottish heritage. But there are a few Afghanistan supporters at deep cover , waving large Afghanistan flags in national attire. " 1.2 Dawlat Zadran to Coetzer , no run , jaffa ! Wasim Akram reckons it was a leg-break. Pitched on middle and shapes away , Coetzer is squared up as he plays down the wrong angle. The extra bounce on the wicket takes it over the stumps. Coetzer has a wry smile on his face , he knows he was beaten neck and crop 1.1 Dawlat Zadran to Coetzer , leg byes , FOUR , not a great delivery to start off by Dawlat , splays it down leg , Coetzer ca n't connect with the glance , the ball brushes the pad and runs away to the fine leg fence Dawlat Zadran , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Shapoor to MacLeod , no run , too far outside off , MacLeod has no problems in waving it through to the keeper 0.5 Shapoor to MacLeod , no run , back of a length around off , MacLeod covers his sticks and shoulders arms. Good carry through to Zazai , who collects it head high 0.4 Shapoor to Coetzer , 1 run , the first runs are through a misfield , pitched up just outside off , Coetzer drives it to mid-off , Stanikzai fumbles and allows Coetzer to get off the mark 0.3 Shapoor to Coetzer , no run , not much swing for Shapoor , that might be because of the length he is bowling , short and on off , Coetzer jumps up and knocks it down the wicket 0.2 Shapoor to Coetzer , no run , short of length and bit of bounce , Coetzer rides it and plays it with soft hands to the left of backward point Nabi has three slips in place. . 0.1 Shapoor to Coetzer , no run , starts with a back of a length delivery around off , Coetzer goes back and dabs it towards backward point Coetzer and MacLeod are at the crease. Coetzer is on strike. Shapoor will open the attack The national anthems of both teams are done. Nabi gathers his team in a huddle before they take the ground. The Scotland openers make their way out to the middle. Coetzer marks his guard as the countdown begins. We are all set for the game to start. Here we go. . Pitch Report : " It could just be a little bit tricky for the batsmen , how they manage the off-stump channel. But it looks more Scottish kind of conditions than Afghanistan because there is a lot of grass cover. Having said that , you can still score runs provided that you are disciplined , provided that you see off the new ball. The first 10 overs are going to be critical because there are patches of green , there is a thick layer of grass which must be alien to an Afghanistan cricketer. The average score is 240-250 , you should be looking to target that " , reckons Rameez Raja Teams : Afghanistan ( Playing XI ) : Javed Ahmadi , Nawroz Mangal , Asghar Stanikzai , Samiullah Shenwari , Mohammad Nabi ( c ) , Najibullah Zadran , Afsar Zazai ( w ) , Gulbadin Naib , Dawlat Zadran , Hamid Hassan , Shapoor Zadran Scotland ( Playing XI ) : Calum MacLeod , Kyle Coetzer , Hamish Gardiner , Matt Machan , Preston Mommsen ( c ) , Richie Berrington , Matthew Cross ( w ) , Josh Davey , Majid Haq , Alasdair Evans , Iain Wardlaw Afghanistan have won the toss and have opted to field Nabi : " The boys performed well in the last game and hopefully we can perform well in this game as well because the pitch is very good for fast bowling. We will bowl first. It is a totally fresh wicket and we will look to put pressure on the Scotland guys. We have a good fast bowling unit. In the practice session they were looking good and we will try to perform well in this game. Everyone is watching this , watching every game. In Afghanistan it is 2 : 30 in the night , but everyone is watching the game. " Mommsen : " I think the first two games , England and New Zealand , have put us in a better place. We have played a lot of cricket against Afghanistan and hopefully that will work for us today. We need to get some runs on the board and put them under pressure. I think it will remain pretty much the same the whole day. It will have something for us when we bowl. Upfront we need to be tight , we need to get runs on the board. We will have to assess. Obviously the start is fundamental. A partnership platform upfront to give ourselves a chance to get some runs at the back end. " Head-to-Head : These two teams have played quite a few times against each other. Afghanistan have the upper hand as they have won 5 out of those 8 games. Will they make it 6 today ? Or can Scotland beat them where it matters the most ? Stay tuned as the toss and teams are coming up in a short while.. . Scotland The bowling looks alright with Iain Wardlaw leading the pace attack. He is well supported by Alasdair Evans , Josh Davey and the spinner , Majid Haq. Haq was superb in the last game versus England , he slowed it down considerably and ended with figures of 1/51 in his 10 overs. They are a much better fielding side than Afghanistan and it might well turn out to be the difference today . Scotland 's first game was against the high flying Kiwis. The New Zealand bowlers used the swinging conditions in Dunedin to good effect as they bowled out Scotland for a paltry 142. Nonetheless , the bowlers did not give up easily as they scalped 7 wickets and made it a bit difficult for the Black Caps to reach the target. In the second game against England , the bowlers once again pulled things back after Moeen Ali 's century and were set a target of 304. However , the batting failed yet again. Apart from Kyle Coetzer , no one else showed the application which is needed to beat the big teams . Afghanistan The three pacers , Shapoor Zadran , Dawlat Zadran and Hamid Hassan have been absolutely brilliant. They have bowled with pace and hit the right areas. If only their batsmen could stand and deliver , Afghanistan will be a difficult team to beat. They will also have to improve their fielding , especially during pressure situations . Afghanistan started their campaign against familiar foes , Bangladesh. They were outplayed by the Tigers. Even though they restricted Bangladesh to 267 , the batsmen failed to get going and were rolled over for 162. Against Sri Lanka , they had a very good chance of registering their first win. After Mathews sent them in , Afghanistan batsmen did well to post a competitive 232. In reply , the Asian giants were stuttering at 51/4 before Mahela scored a brilliant hundred and eventually , Thisara Perera got them home with his power-hitting . Today 's game also promises to be a cracker. We can term it as the battle of equals. Afghanistan and Scotland come into this encounter with a couple of losses behind them. So , who will come out on top remains to be seen. Let us have a look at the form guide of both the teams . The battle between the Associate nations continues. Yesterday we saw the first close game of the competition and it was played between Ireland and UAE. After being reduced to 131/6 , UAE fought back through Shaiman Anwar 's hundred to post 278 on the board. Ireland looked down and out and would have lost the game had it not been for the pyrotechnics from Kevin O'Brien and Gary Wilson. Both scored their respective fifties and saw their side through . Preview On paper , the 17th match of the 2015 ICC World Cup appears little more than a battle for bragging rights between two of the tournament 's less-fancied teams. Neither Scotland or Afghanistan are expected to make it to the quarter-finals , but considering the ICC 's plan to shrink the World Cup to ten teams in 2019 and the reduction of opportunities for Associate nations to improve at the highest level , making as many ticks in the W column is of utmost importance to them . At every juncture of Scotland 's World Cup campaign , Preston Mommsen has found himself defending his team 's position as minnows. He has spoken of how they have nothing to prove because they won matches to qualify for the World Cup , but equally he has emphasised the importance of taking points home because of the make-up of the 2019 tournament. Scotland and Afghanistan have needed to win every match because there is so much riding on the success of the Associates . Scotland have lost both their matches , to New Zealand by three wickets and England by 119 runs , while Afghanistan lost to Bangladesh by 105 runs and Sri Lanka by four wickets. Yet both teams will know that victories were close in one each of their previous games , and that with a bit more runs , they could beat Full Member teams. Right here in Dunedin , Scotland had New Zealand seven wickets down chasing 143 and Afghanistan reduced Sri Lanka to 51 for 5 and then 178 for 6 when defending 233. More is needed , and the two sides should know just what that is . That Scotland have not been competitive enough so far in this World Cup owes largely because not enough players have delivered in tandem. Against New Zealand , from 12 for 4 the team was carried by Matt Machan 's 56 and Richie Berrington 's 50 , but the innings gave way once the pair was separated. Against England , barring Kyle Coetzer 's splendid 71 the next best contribution was Mommsen 's 26. The hard-hitting opener Calum MacLeod has yet to click , making 0 and 4 , and that has meant early pressure on the batting . Despite two defeats , Mommsen could take positives from the team 's performance , especially considering that apart from the offspinner Majid Haq , no member of the squad had played in a World Cup before this. " It 's been vital to get that experience under the belt and bank that. Obviously , it 's one thing talking about playing in a World Cup , but actually doing it , on the day there 's so much that goes on , there 's far more pressure , " he said . " But , I think we 're better for those two games and the experience of that , and I think we 've played good cricket in parts in both those games , but just not for long enough. I think England , the way we came back with the ball in the second half of the first innings was a great credit to our bowlers , to only restrict them to 300. I thought that was a brilliant effort. And with the bat we 've threatened at times , just , as I said , not being able to do those good things for long enough and get those bigger partnerships to have a proper crack at chasing those totals. We do take a lot from those first two games. " Scotland made two changes for the England game in Christchurch , swapping Hamish Gardiner and Rob Taylor with Freddie Coleman and Alasdair Evans. While Coleman made just 7 at No 3 , seamer Evans was the most economic Scotland bowler with 1 for 46 off his ten overs. It is likely that Coleman will be persisted with , because Gardiner doesnt have much form to show for . Afghanistan improved on 162 all out against Bangladesh by posting 232 against Sri Lanka , but they should have gotten more from a scoreline of 138 for 2 after 27 overs. The problem has been starts and finishes - the middle order has done well - and against Scotland , those are areas which they will hope to improve ahead of bigger tests with Australia , New Zealand and England. With allrounder Mirwais Ashraf injured and unlikely to recover for the game , one of Nasir Jamal and Gulbadin Naib could come in . " We learned a lot of things from the Sri Lanka game , and hopefully we are doing good against Scotland , " said Afghanistan opener Javed Ahmadi. " They are also one of the ICC Associate members and they 're doing good in this tournament , as well , so we will try our best and look forward. It 's very important for us , especially because both sides are Associate member , and hopefully we beat Scotland strongly. That would be very good because we 're showing our country. " The two teams have played each other eight times in ODIs , with Afghanistan holding a 5-3 advantage over Scotland. During the Dubai Triangular Series played in January , the two results between the teams were contrasting : in the first , Afghanistan chased down 238 with eight wickets and 42 balls remaining but in the second , set 214 , they were bowled out for 63 in 18.3 overs . Mommsen felt that the last match would be added inspiration for Scotland. " We take a huge amount of confidence from that game in Abu Dhabi , huge psychological advantage , I think. We had a clear , clear strategy and tactic against them , and I 'm pretty sure that we 'll resort to the same formula tomorrow , " he said. " In terms of our approach to Afghanistan , yes , I think you will see a slightly different approach in the way we play. Generally , a Scotland-Afghanistan game is quite feisty and there 's quite a bit of passion on display , quite a bit of aggression , and I think tomorrow will be no different. " Wednesday afternoon was chilly , with temperatures dropping to 12 degrees as drizzle fell on the city , but the forecast for game day is only marginally better. The overcast conditions and Dunedin 's Scottish heritage , hoped Mommsen , would work in Scotland 's favour. " We 're hoping this would almost be like a home game for us with the support that we 'll hopefully have tomorrow , " he said. " We 're used to playing against Afghanistan in the UAE where they have thousands and thousands of support , and that genuinely does make a difference for the way they play. Hopefully for once we 'll have more support than they 'll have , and that 'll give us an extra edge. " Teams : Scotland ( From ) : Kyle Coetzer , Calum MacLeod , Freddie Coleman , Matt Machan , Preston Mommsen ( c ) , Richie Berrington , Matthew Cross ( w ) , Josh Davey , Majid Haq , Alasdair Evans , Iain Wardlaw , Rob Taylor , Safyaan Sharif , Michael Leask , Hamish Gardiner Afghanistan ( From ) : Javed Ahmadi , Nawroz Mangal , Asghar Stanikzai , Samiullah Shenwari , Mohammad Nabi ( c ) , Najibullah Zadran , Afsar Zazai ( w ) , Mirwais Ashraf , Dawlat Zadran , Hamid Hassan , Shapoor Zadran , Usman Ghani , Aftab Alam , Nasir Jamal , Gulbadin Naib Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
