Graphs So , that brings us to the end of our coverage for this game. Hope you enjoyed it. Many thanks for your company. You can now switch tabs to follow the India vs UAE game. On behalf of Bhanu , Sriram and my co-commentator , Akshay Maanay , this is Sidhant Maheshwari , signing off. Take care. Ciao ! Ohh ! What a game it was ! There was drama all around. Who would have thought that it will turn out to be the closest game of the tournament ? Well , cricket just never ceases to entertain. Australia and New Zealand proved to us why they are the favourites to win this tournament. Let 's just hope that the big nations produce more such nail-biters . Let 's take a look at some of the interesting tweets from this game : @ RossLTaylor : Wow that was close. Awesome game . @ glennmcgrath11 : Amazing game between @ CricketAus & @ BLACKCAPS Great fight back by the Aussies but just could n't get there. Well played Kiwis @ Swannyg66 : What a game of cricket that was ! ! ! ! Unbelievable stuff from Boult , Stark , McCullum and Williamson. Ca n't remember seeing a better one @ JimmyNeesh : # nervesofwilliamsteel @ cricketaakash : The best game of the World Cup happened between the two best sides . @ DeepDasgupta7 : Super display of fast bowling , lived up to the expectations . what a game @ anilkumble1074 : NZ do n't believe in playing under lights ! Two in a row , ashes rivals , albeit 2nd one too close a call ! Earlier in the day , Boult rattled the Aussie batsmen with his swing and pace. He scalped his maiden 5-wicket haul and was the chief destroyer. However , it has to be said that it was Vettori , who changed the course of the game. The wily left-arm spinner , pulled things back after Warner went berserk at the start. He took the crucial wickets of Watson and Smith , which gave an opening for the rest of the bowlers. McCullum was once again brilliant in marshalling his troops . Starc was the standout performer with the ball for Australia. The left-arm quick swung the ball at high speeds and troubled all the batsmen. He finished with career-best figures of 6/28. Cummins supported him well with his pace and extra bounce. But , Johnson had a forgettable day as he conceded 68 runs in his 6 overs , the worst economy rate for him in ODIs. Overall , they were a few runs short . Everyone thought that the game was over by then , but with Anderson 's wicket , Australia were back in it. Starc ripped through the lower-order and was a wicket away from taking his side to a thrilling victory. He knocked over Milne and Southee in one over , and had two balls at Boult , who survived and Williamson finished it off the very first ball the next over . New Zealand somehow managed to scrape through. They will have to thank Williamson for his calm composure towards the end. And they have reclaimed the Chappell-Hadlee Trophy. With this win , they will host the semi-final , even if they have to face Australia. When Starc castled Elliott 's stumps , Australia were given a glimmer of hope. However , Anderson and Williamson added a solid 52-run partnership. The former looked scratchy , but he managed to stick it out with his partner. Meanwhile , Williamson was tight in his technique and pounced on anything that was loose. Together they took New Zealand to the brink of victory . Brendon McCullum : 'Great crowd. I was saying to Pup ( Michael Clarke ) that we should go and do that again. It was one hell of a game. Both teams showed how quality their bowlers are. I thought Mitchell Starc 's spell that was right out of the top shelf , Trent Boult obviously for us as well. Amazing atmosphere , a great game to be a part of. It did n't go the distance , but I am pretty sure that everyone will go home happy. Trent Boult was outstanding , Mitchell Starc was outstanding. I thought the support acts were brilliant as well. The fielding was good by both teams. Some of the batting was n't as good as it should have been. When you 're up against high class swing bowling at genuine pace as well , that can happen. Overall , the spirit was outstanding. The boys love playing in front of crowds like this. It 's a great result and now , we have to move onto the next game. Well , it 's the brand of cricket we want to play , we want to be an aggressive team with bat , ball and in the field. Same with captaincy as well. I thought Michael Clarke and the Aussie boys did the same today , it was probably Test match fields right throughout the game. It 's a great spectacle and everyone likes to see 300 play 300 and sometimes 150 plays 150/9 , it is obviously a great game as well. Finish 7 : 48 , you can go have a beer. So , it 's a great game. Without being disrespectful to anyone else , I would n't swap the boys for anyone going around ( talking about Southee and Boult ) . They are outstanding in ODIs and Tests , and have done it for a long period of time. No disrespect to others , but we are happy with the lot we have got. It will be alright , it 's fine ( on his arm ) . " Michael Clarke : 'It was pretty similar the whole game to be honest ( talking about the tense environment ) . Just talking to Brendon ( McCullum ) there , it was obviously a very entertaining game. We would have liked the result to go the other way , but credit to New Zealand and obviously the way Kane ( Williamson ) played and Brendon himself was outstanding. Our batting was horrendous to put it politely and Mitchell Starc was a genius. Entertaining game , but we would have liked to have won this , no doubt about it. I think both teams will probably say that we did n't bat as well as we would have liked. I thought it was a really good wicket to be honest. I think there was enough there for the bowlers , the ball swung , did n't seam , but then if you got in , it was still nice enough to bat on. Credit to the groundsmen , I thought they came up with a wonderful wicket , a beautiful ground and obviously , fantastic crowd as well. It 's always the same when you come here , you know you are in for a battle. Look , I think the crowd like Australia , you want your home team to win. But , I think they wanted to see good entertaining cricket. I hope everybody goes home happy. I do n't think so ( on being asked whether the Aussies were a little rusty because of lack of match time ) . I think credit to New Zealand the way they bowled , I thought they swung the ball really well and executed their skills really well. And , we were disappointed enough with our defence , so we let ourselves down with the bat.' Trent Boult : 'I can easily say those two deliveries ( on being asked whether he was more nervous while bowling out there or facing those 2 deliveries in Starc 's over ) . The build-up in the change room to have to go there and do that was just frightening as you can imagine. Dan ( Vettori ) put in some good work and tied them down very nicely. I guess my mindset was to come back and take some wickets , did n't realize that I was going to take five , but it was nice. It started off with a hiss and a roar. But like I said , Dan ( Daniel Vettori ) pulled it back nicely. Everyone chipped in as a group to keep them to a chaseable score. So , it was nice to get the win at the end. We have just been working well over the past six months to even a year , we enjoyed our home summer here. Things just rolled on from there and we are looking forward to the game next Sunday. Hopefully , some more results in our way.' Trent Boult is the Man of the Match for his figures of 5/27 The crowd at Eden Park were all up in anticipation for the last ball. What a game of cricket ! Who says that low-scoring games are boring ? Look at this. Midway through the game , no one would have thought that it will go down to the wire , but this is why it was being touted as the best match of the World Cup. First Australia were cruising through , then New Zealand just annihilated their batting. When the Black Caps batters came out , they showed intent , intent of finishing off the game in a hurry. They were also in a very strong position when McCullum was at the crease , but in the end , it just turned out to a be game that is not advisable for the faint-hearted . What a thrilling encounter ! New Zealand win by a wicket ! Starc in the deep can only feel disappointed as he did all he could. Williamson punches the air in delight. Boult at the other end is also extremely happy. Ian Smith was so delighted. This was a superb game. Williamson celebrates with Boult and then shakes hands with the Australian players. Williamson is just unbelievable , with so much pressure and so much to do , he just gives the charge and that was simply too good. Ian Smith shouts on air , 'Ey , Warney. Ey , Warney.' 23.1 P Cummins to Williamson , SIX , what a game and what a finish ! Take a bow , Kane Williamson ! From No. 3 he has batted till the end and eventually , took his team through. It was fuller and around off , Williamson offers the full face of the bat after giving the charge and lofts it over the long-on fence . Folks , tighten your seat belt ! It has turned out to be one of the best ever games in World Cups 22.6 Starc to Boult , no run , bowls it very full and well outside off , Boult leaves it easily this time , the crowd at Eden Park gives a standing ovation for the leave Clarke is rallying his troops around. There 's a spring in his stride now. He is slowing down the game , perfect tactic in this situation . 22.5 Starc to Boult , no run , back of a length delivery on off and middle , Boult defends it off the back foot past the non-striker , Williamson does n't risk the single Hat-trick ball coming up Trent Boult , right handed bat , comes to the crease 22.4 Starc to Southee , out Bowled ! ! Ohh my god ! This game has turned on its head. Can Australia pull it off ? New Zealand need 6 runs to win with just a wicket left. What a thrilling finish. This is the second time in this innings that Starc is on a hat-trick. It was the yorker on the base of off , Southee was pushing at it , but the ball sneaks under his bat and hits off. Warne at the start of this over said that he feels that Starc will take 2 wickets in the over and well , he has been proven right once again. Southee b Starc 0 ( 1 ) Starc to Southee , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Tim Southee , right handed bat , comes to the crease 22.3 Starc to Milne , out Bowled ! ! Is there a twist in the tale ? Warne the Oracle called it right on air. It was fuller delivery shaping in from off , the ball beats the drive by Milne and crashes into the middle stump. Warne predicted it right. Also , this is Starc 's 5th 5-wicket haul. Milne b Starc 0 ( 2 ) Starc to Milne , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Three slips and a gully in place 22.2 Starc to Williamson , 1 run , length delivery on off , Williamson leans forward and pushes it in front of mid-off and sets off , the batsmen complete the single easily at the end , well Starc would n't mind bowling at Milne either 22.1 Starc to Williamson , no run , yorker around off , Williamson digs it out back to the bowler 21.6 P Cummins to Milne , no run , ohh that was so close to taking the edge ! It was fuller outside off , Milne flashes at it away from his body , the ball goes past his outside edge , it was not that far away from the off stump as well Adam Milne , right handed bat , comes to the crease 21.5 P Cummins to Vettori , out Caught by Warner ! ! What is going on here ? Like the Scotland game where they were chasing a low score , New Zealand are 7 down once again. It was a full toss from Cummins , Vettori just chips it straight to mid-on. He is very disappointed with himself and he should be , it was not a wicket taking delivery. A soft dismissal for the veteran. Vettori c Warner b P Cummins 2 ( 3 ) P Cummins to Vettori , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 21.4 P Cummins to Vettori , no run , goes across a little too much and fails to lap this behind square on the on-side , the ball was not that far away from the leg-stump , the keeper takes it and not called a wide as well 21.3 P Cummins to Vettori , 2 runs , banged in short and at the batsman , Vettori short-arm jabs it behind square , the fielder from square leg gives chase , but ca n't prevent the couple Three slips and a gully for Vettori 21.3 P Cummins to Vettori , wide , too short and wide outside off , Vettori had shuffled across his stumps , but he has nothing to do with it , the umpire calls it a wide for height 21.2 P Cummins to Williamson , 1 run , bowls this one in the channel outside off , Williamson stays back , opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man 21.1 P Cummins to Williamson , 2 runs , fuller and angling into the pads , Williamson flicks it behind square on the on-side for a brace Pat Cummins [ 5.0-0-26-1 ] is back into the attack Daniel Vettori , left handed bat , comes to the crease 20.6 Starc to Ronchi , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Now , Ronchi goes and he is Starc 's fourth wicket of the innings. It was a good short ball from Starc , caught Ronchi by surprise , who was looking to leave it at the last moment by swaying away from the line. However , he does n't drops his bat in time and the ball takes the glove on its way to the keeper. Ronchi c Haddin b Starc 6 ( 7 ) [ 6s-1 ] Starc to Ronchi , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 20.5 Starc to Ronchi , no run , yorker outside off , Ronchi opens the face of the bat and squeezes it out to towards gully , who dives to his left and stops the ball 20.4 Starc to Ronchi , no run , fuller and shaping back in from around off , Ronchi looks to drive , gets an inside edge that dribbles away towards mid-wicket 20.3 Starc to Ronchi , no run , length delivery angling away just outside off , Ronchi punches it to cover 20.3 Starc to Ronchi , wide , down the leg-side , the umpire exercises his arms and Starc walks back to his mark a little disappointed with himself 20.2 Starc to Ronchi , no run , squares him up there , it was just short of a good length and around off and middle , Ronchi was pushing at it off the back foot , the ball shapes away just a touch and takes the outside edge , goes on the bounce to gully , Ronchi did well to play it with soft hands there 20.1 Starc to Williamson , 1 run , length delivery and just outside off , Williamson hangs back , opens the face of the bat and dabs it towards third man 19.6 Maxwell to Ronchi , SIX , ohh what a shot to get off the mark , it was floated up on the stumps , Ronchi gets under it , offers the full face of the bat and just lofts it over the long-on fence with ease 19.5 Maxwell to Ronchi , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Ronchi punches it back to the bowler Luke Ronchi , right handed bat , comes to the crease 19.4 Maxwell to Corey Anderson , out Caught by P Cummins ! ! Anderson has thrown it away. It was dragged slightly short and outside off , the ball got stuck into the pitch as Anderson went for the pull. He did n't get the timing right nor the elevation , picks out Cummins at mid-off , who takes a good low catch. The umpire check for the no-ball. Wait a minute , did Cummins catch that cleanly ? Or did he touch the turf. Anderson is still waiting as the TV umpire looks at the replay. In fact , Ronchi is also out and the umpire needs to get this right first. This is a doubtful decision , but Anderson has finally been given his marching orders now. Anderson was not happy there , he threw his gloves after reaching the dug-out. Corey Anderson c P Cummins b Maxwell 26 ( 42 ) [ 4s-2 6s-1 ] Maxwell to Corey Anderson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 19.3 Maxwell to Corey Anderson , no run , touch flatter and outside off , Anderson rocks back and chops it towards cover-point 19.2 Maxwell to Corey Anderson , no run , floated up around off , Anderson drives it towards mid-on 19.1 Maxwell to Williamson , 1 run , drifting on the pads , Williamson works it behind square for a single Glenn Maxwell , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 18.6 Starc to Corey Anderson , no run , fuller and homing in on middle and leg , Anderson fails to work it into the on-side and wears it on his pad , there was a loud appeal , but the umpire says 'Not Out ' , Australia decide to review but lose the call Michael Clarke has decided to review an lbw appeal. The onfield decision is not out. Starc 's front foot is fine. Remember , the ball needs to be hitting the leg stump and not just clipping it , for the decision to be overturned. As I thought , the ball was clipping the outside half of the leg stump and the onfield decision is upheld 18.5 Starc to Corey Anderson , no run , full and angling in on leg , Anderson fails to work it through the on-side , there was a stifled appeal as the ball hit the pad , but it was snaking down leg though 18.4 Starc to Corey Anderson , no run , full and on middle and leg , Anderson clips it to the left of mid-on , who slides to his left and stops the ball 18.3 Starc to Corey Anderson , no run , fuller in length and shaping away outside off , Anderson leaves that one alone 18.2 Starc to Williamson , 1 run , straying on the pads , Williamson tickles it fine , the batsmen cross over before the fielder from fine leg moves to his right and collects the ball 18.1 Starc to Williamson , no run , fuller just outside off , Williamson presses forward and looks to drive , drags it back towards the bowler off the inside half of the bat , Starc bends down but ca n't stop the ball , but luckily for him the mid-on fielder was just behind him and stops the ball Mitchell Starc [ 6.0-0-24-3 ] is back into the attack 17.6 M Marsh to Williamson , 1 run , waits for this slightly back of a length delivery outside off , opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man , he will keep the strike and this single also brought up the 50-run partnership between these two 17.5 M Marsh to Williamson , 2 runs , full and angling in on middle , Williamson shuffles across just a touch and works it wide of mid-on , the batsmen come back for the second easily 17.4 M Marsh to Williamson , FOUR , great shot from Williamson , it was short and wide outside off , Williamson reaches out for it and crashes it to the sweeper cover fence , it was in the air for a little wide , but well over the two fielders at short cover 17.3 M Marsh to Williamson , no run , fuller and around off , Williamson leans forward and drives it to mid-on 17.2 M Marsh to Williamson , no run , in the channel just outside off , Williamson leaves it 17.1 M Marsh to Williamson , FOUR , poor delivery from Marsh to start his spell , it was short and little wide outside off , Williamson rocks back and pulls it to the deep mid-wicket fence , did n't middle it , but this ground is too small for that ball to be stopped Mitchell Marsh , right-arm medium , comes into the attack The third Mitchell comes into the attack now 16.6 Johnson to Corey Anderson , no run , back of a length delivery shaping in on middle and leg , Anderson pushes at it and gets an inside edge onto the pad , good comeback from Johnson as he bowled a maiden after going for 16 in his last over 16.5 Johnson to Corey Anderson , no run , almost a yorker angling in on middle and leg , Anderson clips it towards mid-on 16.4 Johnson to Corey Anderson , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Anderson stays back and blocks it towards mid-off 16.3 Johnson to Corey Anderson , no run , fuller and in the channel outside off , Anderson leaves that for the keeper 16.2 Johnson to Corey Anderson , no run , back of a length delivery on top of off , Anderson transfers his weight on the back foot and defends it into the off-side 16.1 Johnson to Corey Anderson , no run , back of a length delivery shaping away outside off , Anderson lifts his bat and lets it go 15.6 P Cummins to Corey Anderson , 3 runs , fuller in length and angled across off , Anderson leans forward and lofts it over cover , he did n't time it properly , but the batsmen take three before the fielder from cover chased it down 15.5 P Cummins to Corey Anderson , 2 runs , angling in on off and middle , Anderson mistimes the heave to the right of mid-wicket , the batsmen take two before Finch from mid-on runs to his left and hunts the ball down 15.4 P Cummins to Corey Anderson , no run , yorker on off , Anderson jams it out towards mid-off 15.3 P Cummins to Williamson , 1 run , too straight , on middle , Williamson nudges it to the right of mid-wicket for a single 15.2 P Cummins to Williamson , no run , fuller and just outside off , Williamson drives and finds mid-off 15.1 P Cummins to Williamson , FOUR , New Zealand getting back the momentum. Cummins provides width outside off , Williamson stands in his crease and flays it up and over extra cover. He did n't middle it , but the ball had enough to reach the fence 14.6 Johnson to Corey Anderson , 2 runs , full and on the stumps , Anderson leans forward and clips it to deep square leg , scampers back for the second before the ball is hunted down. An expensive over from Johnson , 16 runs came off it. His figures as of now : 5-0-68-0 14.5 Johnson to Corey Anderson , no run , good length ball closer to off , Anderson protects his sticks and lets it pass 14.4 Johnson to Corey Anderson , no run , goes back over the wicket , on a length just outside off , Anderson is content to let it go. Sensible ! 14.3 Johnson to Corey Anderson , SIX , nailed it ! The ploy of bowling short to Anderson is not working , he is expecting it , sits on the back foot , swivels and pulls it powerfully over deep backward square for a maximum. That gets the crowd going once again 14.2 Johnson to Corey Anderson , FOUR , streaky four ! Johnson ca n't believe how that misses the stumps. Tucks the batsman for room , Anderson looks to steer it to third man , gets an inside edge that runs away to the fine leg fence. That missed the stumps by inches 14.1 Johnson to Corey Anderson , FOUR , Johnson starts from round the sticks , banged in halfway down the pitch , Anderson flat-bats the pull to the left of Johnson , he sticks his hand out but the ball evades him comfortably Mitchell Johnson [ 4.0-0-52-0 ] is back into the attack 13.6 P Cummins to Williamson , no run , too full and on the stumps , Williamson leans forward and clips , the fielder at mid-wicket dives to his left and makes a fine save 13.5 P Cummins to Williamson , no run , on a length close to off , Williamson pushes it to mid-off , the bat turned in his hands and hence foiling his timing 13.4 P Cummins to Williamson , 2 runs , short and outside off , Williamson had the room to free his arms , he cuts it in front of square , Warner runs behind the ball , slides and hauls it back in 13.3 P Cummins to Williamson , no run , fuller and just outside off , Williamson comes well forward , presents the high elbow and drives it to mid-off. Everything right about that shot , just that he could not place it better 13.2 P Cummins to Williamson , no run , this one stays a tad low , Williamson hangs on the back foot and bunts it off the toe-end to backward point 13.1 P Cummins to Williamson , no run , short of length around off , Williamson mistimes the punch back to Cummins 12.6 Starc to Corey Anderson , no run , fuller and on the stumps , Anderson works it towards mid-on , Johnson dives to his right and keeps the batsmen at their respective ends 12.5 Starc to Corey Anderson , no run , keeps it tight on off-stump , Anderson stays in the crease and defends it to the left of Starc 12.4 Starc to Corey Anderson , no run , now teases the batsman with a full and wide one , Anderson watches it carefully and shoulders arms to it. Good carry on that as Haddin takes it chest height 12.3 Starc to Corey Anderson , no run , back of a length close to off , Anderson swivels on the pull and fails to make contact. It was not short enough to play that shot 12.3 Starc to Corey Anderson , wide , splays it down leg , Anderson ca n't lay bat on the tickle , excellent stop by Hadds diving to his right. He saved a certain boundary there 12.2 Starc to Corey Anderson , no run , drags the length back , Anderson is quick to transfer his weight back , toe-ends the pull to a widish mid-on. He should have timed and placed it better 12.1 Starc to Corey Anderson , no run , Starc probes away in and around the off-stump , Anderson is drawn into a tentative poke , the ball whizzes past the outside edge 11.6 P Cummins to Williamson , no run , again , a bit of extra bounce for Cummins , Williamson rides with it and punches it to backward point , finds Warner there 11.5 P Cummins to Corey Anderson , 1 run , each and every run is being cheered. Too straight , on middle stump line , Anderson wrists it wide of mid-on and gets across for a single 11.4 P Cummins to Corey Anderson , no run , Anderson missed out there , full delivery on the pads , he is late on the clip , ball strikes him on the pad and rolls towards square leg 11.3 P Cummins to Williamson , 1 run , on a length close to off , Williamson runs it down to third man with an angled bat 11.2 P Cummins to Williamson , FOUR , just a bit of width from Cummins and Williamson pounches on it. Jumps up off his feet and punches it handsomely through cover-point , Warner gives chase and dives to stop the ball , all goes in vain as it touches the rope 11.1 P Cummins to Williamson , no run , Williamson has been rock solid , goes back and across , defends it with the straightest of bats to short cover 10.6 Starc to Corey Anderson , no run , keeps it back of a length outside off , Anderson dabs it tentatively towards backward point 10.5 Starc to Corey Anderson , 2 runs , loud cheer from the crowd as Anderson gets a couple , it was a very low full toss , inches away from being a yorker , Anderson toe-ends the clip through the vacant mid-wicket region and scampers back for the second 10.4 Starc to Corey Anderson , no run , beauty ! Fullish and curling away in the corridor around off , Anderson looks to whip it across the line , nowhere close to the ball and is beaten by a long way 10.3 Starc to Corey Anderson , no run , shortens the length on off , this one holds its line , Anderson closes his bat face and gets a soft leading edge back to the bowler 10.2 Starc to Corey Anderson , no run , peach ! This is high quality bowling from Starc. Back of a length close to off , shapes away late , Anderson had to play at it , is beaten comprehensively. Oohs and aahs from the slip cordon 10.1 Starc to Corey Anderson , no run , nice shape on this , fuller and homing away outside off , Anderson ignores it 9.6 P Cummins to Williamson , no run , again , hurries onto the batsman , Williamson fails to get bat on the glance , is pinged on the thigh pad and the ball pops up and falls safely on the leg-side 9.5 P Cummins to Williamson , no run , back of a length on off , Williamson shuffles back and across , blocks it to cover 9.4 P Cummins to Corey Anderson , 1 run , in the air and safe ! Cummins generates some extra bounce , Anderson takes his eyes off the ball and fends it , the ball takes the shoulder of the bat and balloons over the slip cordon. Plenty of chatter from the close-in fielders 9.3 P Cummins to Corey Anderson , no run , shortens the length outside off , Anderson goes for the swipe across the line , the ball goes under his bat. Cummins has a smile on his face. He can sense a bit of nerves from Anderson 9.2 P Cummins to Corey Anderson , no run , touch fuller and in the channel around off , Anderson presses forward , covers his stumps and shoulders arms 9.1 P Cummins to Corey Anderson , no run , back of a length just outside off , Anderson lifts his bat and lets it go 8.6 Starc to Williamson , no run , great delivery to end the over , yorker that tails back in , Williamson manages to get his bat down in time and jam it to the off-side. Maxwell went up for an LBW appeal , but it clearly came off the bat 8.5 Starc to Williamson , no run , short of length on the hips , Williamson jumps up and taps it with soft hands to short leg , Maxi stays low and stops the ball from going any further 8.4 Starc to Corey Anderson , 1 run , good length ball angling in , Anderson wrists it in front of mid-on and takes off for a quick single. The throw comes in at the striker 's end , but Williamson had made his ground 8.3 Starc to Corey Anderson , no run , Anderson negotiates the hat-trick ball , on a length close to off , Anderson gets behind the line and defends it to the left of the bowler Hat-trick ball coming up ! Three slips in place along with a short leg . Corey Anderson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 8.2 Starc to Elliott , out Bowled ! ! Cleaned up ! What a way to start after the break ! Starc is on a hat-trick. It was a terrific delivery to get first up. Full and tails back in , Elliott comes slightly forward and tries to push at it , leaves a gap between bat and pad , the ball crashes into middle stump. Starc runs away in excitement and his mates catch up with him. Game not over yet ! Elliott b Starc 0 ( 1 ) Starc to Elliott , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Welcome back.. Elliott is the new man in. Starc will resume proceedings after the break. He has two slips , a gully and a short leg in place. . Martin Crowe has been inducted into the ICC Hall of Fame during the break. He gets the cap and medallion. Some of the games greats congratulate him , including Shane Warne. It is an emotional moment at Eden Park as Crowe is in tears as he makes the walk back to the dug out. Not a single person is sitting on his chair , they are up on their feet applauding one of their proudest sons . Ian Smith on air talks about the atmosphere today at Eden Park 'I have been lucky enough to be on the sideline for some All Blacks ( New Zealand rugby team ) Test matches and 80 minutes of euphoria , this has outdone it. What I have seen in the last 3 hours here in Eden Park has been the most astonishing atmosphere , these are the most astonishing scenes I have ever seen in New Zealand.' That will be the supper break ! Those couple of wickets just before the break , brings the match back in balance. New Zealand still need 73 runs and Australia require 7 wickets. The short burst of play saw McCullum play a magnificent innings. Even though he was hit on the forearm by a Johnson short delivery , he continued attacking and got to his fifty off just 21 balls. Guptill , who started off with a four and a six went for a loft and holed out to mid-off. And just before the break Taylor played a reckless shot to give Australia a sniff. The onus is now on Williamson to see the Black Caps home. Can the rest of the batsmen support him ? Or will the Aussies pull off a miraculous win ? Join us in a few minutes to find out.. . 8.1 Starc to Ross Taylor , out Bowled ! ! Knocked over ! A nothing shot from Rosco. Australia slowly clawing their way back into the game. Full and tails back in , Taylor is drawn into the drive , goes for it with no footwork , gets an inside edge that crashes into off-stump. It was an unnecessary shot considering the supper break is a few minutes away. Ross Taylor b Starc 1 ( 2 ) Starc to Ross Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Mitchell Starc [ 3.0-0-20-1 ] is back into the attack 7.6 P Cummins to Williamson , no run , back of a length close to off , Williamson gets right behind the line and blocks 7.5 P Cummins to Ross Taylor , 1 run , short and outside off , Taylor upper cuts it to third man. The ball goes on the bounce to the fielder Ross Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 7.4 P Cummins to Brendon McCullum , out Caught by Starc ! ! The entertainment comes to an end ! A whirlwind innings from Baz comes to an end. Cummins sees the batsman give charge , drops it short and just outside off , McCullum still goes through with the shot , flat-bats it in the air to mid-off , Starc standing right on the edge of the circle holds onto it. Australia can breath a sigh of relief. Brendon McCullum c Starc b P Cummins 50 ( 24 ) [ 4s-7 6s-3 ] P Cummins to Brendon McCullum , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 7.3 P Cummins to Brendon McCullum , no run , shimmies down the track and looks to flat-bat , gets a bottom edge and the ball rolls to the slip fielder Cummins slips and goes down in his followthrough. He lost his footing while landing. It was his back leg and thankfully , he is alright. Walks back to his run-up 7.2 P Cummins to Brendon McCullum , no run , short and on the stumps , McCullum backs away , arches back and looks to ramp it over the slip cordon , fails to make contact 7.2 P Cummins to Brendon McCullum , 5 wides , horrible delivery from Cummins , Haddin had no chance. Dug in mid-way down the wicket , the ball drifts away way down leg , McCullum just watches it go , Haddin did n't even try to gather it 7.1 P Cummins to Williamson , 1 run , short of length just outside off , Williamson goes on his toes and punches it to sweeper cover Pat Cummins , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 6.6 Johnson to Williamson , 1 run , fuller and around off , Williamson drives it towards cover , calls for a quick single and gets it easily 6.5 Johnson to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , McCullum brings up his fifty off just 21 balls. It is his 30th in ODIs. The crowd are up on their feet and bowing down to their captain. What an innings it has been ! Williamson walks up to him and shakes his hand. McCullum waves his bat at the crowd and appreciates the ovation. It was a full delivery outside off , McCullum squeezes it to mid-off and scampers across for a single 6.4 Johnson to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , McCullum is getting stuck into Johnson. The crowd are loving it. Another short delivery , McCullum rocks back and pulls it over backward square. He did n't middle it , but he will take four 6.3 Johnson to Brendon McCullum , SIX , fabulous shot ! Johnson tries to overcompensate , pitches it up outside off , McCullum goes through with the loft , launches it over long-off for a maximum 6.2 Johnson to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , no ducking or swaying from McCullum. Short delivery on the body , he swivels and pulls it behind square leg , the fielder at fine leg was inside the circle and he saw the ball fly over him 6.1 Johnson to Williamson , 1 run , on a length close to off , Williamson opens the bat face and dabs it down to third man 5.6 Starc to Brendon McCullum , no run , length delivery on the pads , McCullum turns it gently to square leg 5.5 Starc to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , edged and four ! McCullum looks at the square leg umpire for the height on that full toss. He feels it is a legal delivery. A high full toss around off , McCullum slashes and the ball takes the edge , runs away between keeper and first slip 5.4 Starc to Brendon McCullum , no run , too full and on off , McCullum digs it out to short cover 5.3 Starc to Brendon McCullum , no run , dropped ! But it was a tough chance. Actually , Starc saved four there. Good length ball close to off , McCullum mistimes the pull to the right of the bowler , Starc sticks out his hand and tries to catch it , but was not able to do. It would have been a stunner 5.2 Starc to Williamson , 1 run , too full and just outside off , it was almost a yorker , Williamson squeezes the drive through cover 5.1 Starc to Williamson , no run , short of length on off , Williamson rides the bounce and taps it in front of backward point 4.6 Johnson to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , take that says McCullum , gives the charge to Johnson , makes it into a fuller length delivery , drills it straight down the ground. The bowler tries to stop it with his left boot , but fails to do so. The 50 is up in only the 5th over 4.5 Johnson to Brendon McCullum , no run , targets the stump with a fuller length delivery , McCullum moves forward and defends it to cover 4.4 Johnson to Williamson , 1 run , fuller and around off , Williamson goes for the drive , gets a thickish inside edge towards short mid-wicket , good early for the single 4.3 Johnson to Williamson , FOUR , Johnson errs in line , slips one on leg-stump , he was actually going for the inswinging yorker , does n't get it right , Williamson leans forward and glances it to the fine leg fence 4.2 Johnson to Williamson , no run , lifter on leg-stump , Williamson sinks down and lets it pass. Does it quite easily McCullum has decided to wear the arm-guard. The substitute brought it for him after the end of Starc 's over . 4.1 Johnson to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , short of length on the pads , tucked away to fine leg 3.6 Starc to Williamson , no run , welcomes the new batsman with a bumper , Williamson ducks underneath and evades it comfortably Kane Williamson , right handed bat , comes to the crease 3.5 Starc to Guptill , out Caught by P Cummins ! ! Starc strikes ! Guptill goes for a needless shot and throws it away. Fuller delivery around off , Guptill goes for the on-the-up drive , hits it in the air , does n't get the elevation to clear mid-off , Cummins moves to his right and holds onto to a good catch. Guptill c P Cummins b Starc 11 ( 14 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] Starc to Guptill , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 3.4 Starc to Guptill , no run , full and on the stumps , Guptill leans forward and flicks it wide of mid-on , Marsh dives and makes a fine stop 3.3 Starc to Guptill , no run , pitches it up outside off , Guptill drives it towards mid-off , the fielder moves to his right and fields the ball 3.3 Starc to Guptill , wide , splays it down leg , Guptill ca n't lay bat on the glance , wided by the umpire 3.2 Starc to Guptill , no run , too full and outside off , Guptill squeezes it to cover 3.1 Starc to Guptill , no run , fullish and slanted across off , Guptill covers his sticks , hoists his bat up and lets it go 2.6 Johnson to Brendon McCullum , no run , charges Johnson and decides to take on the short delivery , does n't connect , gets an inside edge onto the body and the ball rolls down the wicket 2.5 Johnson to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , " catch it " was the shout from Johnson , but Clarke needed a ladder to get that. Back of a length close to off , McCullum slashes and gets a thick outside edge , it flies over Clarke at first slip He has taken off his helmet and the physio is out there tending to him. Hopefully , it is nothing serious. It has swollen up and he is still not wearing an arm-guard. Puts on a pressure bandage kind of thing and decides to continue. Guptill pumps his hand and tells him to carry on . 2.4 Johnson to Brendon McCullum , no run , banged in halfway down the wicket , right at the batsman , McCullum tries to get out of the way , is not able to and takes a blow on the left forearm. No guard and that will sting . Short leg in place. Johnson might be going for the short stuff. The crowd are booing Michael Clarke , who is taking a lot of time to set his field. The helmet comes out for Maxi , he is the one standing at short leg . 2.3 Johnson to Brendon McCullum , no run , that is the place to bowl , low full toss right on the stumps , McCullum does n't have the room , he jams it towards mid-off 2.2 Johnson to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , Alan Wilkins says , " McCullum is laying into the Aussies " . Sure he is. Ca n't bowl there , full and just outside off , McCullum stays leg-side of the ball and hammers it over extra cover for another boundary 2.1 Johnson to Brendon McCullum , SIX , the ball is flying all over Eden Park. Dances down the wicket , converts it into a full length delivery , slices it over backward point , gets enough wood to clear the rope 1.6 Starc to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , low full toss just outside off , McCullum advances down the wicket , goes hard on the drive , the ball takes the edge and runs down to third man 1.5 Starc to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , mid-off back in the circle ? No problem I will still take it on says , McCullum. Pitched up just outside off , McCullum drills it in the air back past Guptill , the long-off fielder did n't even bother to move Third man and long-off are the two fielders outside the circle. No one in the deep on the leg-side . 1.4 Starc to Guptill , 1 run , straight from Starc , on middle and leg , Guptill gets inside the line and nurdles it behind square for a single 1.3 Starc to Guptill , no run , on a length close to off , Guptill presses forward and blocks it to cover. Copybook stuff from Guptill 1.2 Starc to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , Starc gets away with a full toss , McCullum goes hard at it , the outside edge rolls down to third man. He relied more on power than placement , hence he could n't get the desired result 1.1 Starc to Brendon McCullum , SIX , fantastic shot ! No sighters needed for the Kiwi captain. Shimmies down the wicket and hammers it inside out , lofts it handsomely into the crowd at deep extra cover 1.1 Starc to Brendon McCullum , wide , straightaway gives the charge , Starc sees that and fires it well wide of off , McCullum ca n't reach it , umpire Erasmus signals it a wide Mitchell Starc , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Johnson to Guptill , no run , shortens the length just outside off , Guptill punches it to backward point , picks out Maxwell there 0.5 Johnson to Guptill , no run , on a length close to off , Guptill presses it to cover after coming forward 0.4 Johnson to Guptill , no run , slanted across the right-hander , Guptill has nothing to do with it , he watches it go past him 0.3 Johnson to Guptill , no run , back of a length on off , Guptill gets right behind the line and defends it down the wicket. That is solid from the Kiwi opener 0.2 Johnson to Guptill , no run , drifting onto the pads , Guptill fails to nail the flick , the ball thuds into the thigh pad and rolls behind square. Johnson still not getting his line right. He has to settle down quickly , if Australia have to make a match of it 0.1 Johnson to Guptill , SIX , massive ! Free-hit and Guptill has cashed in. It was short and just outside off , Guptill backs away slightly , frees his arms and clobbers it over long-off. He stood there and admired the shot 0.1 Johnson to Guptill , no ball , FOUR , poor start from Johnson , strays it onto the pads , Guptill stays back and tickles it to the fine leg fence. To make matters worse , Johnson has overstepped. The fielder at fine leg had no chance of stopping that Guptill and Brendon McCullum are at the crease. Guptill is on strike. Johnson will open the attack Welcome back... Brendon McCullum and Martin Guptill are out in the middle. Johnson has the new cherry in his hands. He has two slips to assist him. . Vettori : " You come to this ground and it 's quite difficult to bowl with this small boundaries. Particularly the start Australia got , to fightback like that behind Trent 's ( Boult ) bowling , was amazing. Once again the noise was fascinating. To hear the crowd get so excited. That one over from Trent where we got a couple of wickets , they got right involved in it. I think I have n't heard something so loud , since playing in New Zealand. It 's going to be a tricky score and the wicket has just enough in it and we know the quality of the Australian attack. So , it 's going to be a good run-chase and lot of fun for the crowd. I think if you hit a length , then it would hold a little for the seamers and also for myself. I think it 's not a typical run-scoring wicket here , but hopefully we will get through. " Brendon McCullum was aggressive in his field placements and his bowlers responded beautifully. From 80/1 to 106/9 , the Kiwi bowlers pulled the curtains down on Australia. Eventually , after a 45-run partnership between Haddin and Cummins , Australia folded for 151. McCullum will surely come out attacking. But , what will be Australia 's approach ? The run-chase will being very shortly. Do stay tuned ! After that the floodgates were opened. Warner was trapped LBW , he reviewed and Hawk-Eye showed that it was kissing the bails. Boult returned for his second burst and just ran through the famed Australian batting line-up. The left-arm pacer send back Maxwell and Marsh in one over. Clarke was battling it out , but he too succumbed to the attacking fields set by B-Mac. Boult , then registered his maiden ODI 5-wicket haul by ripping through Johnson and Starc. Haddin then hit a few meaty blows to give some respectability to the score. Nonetheless , it is still Australia 's lowest score in World Cups batting first . What an anti-climax at Eden Park ! Billed to be the biggest game of the 2015 World Cup , it has been a one-sided affair so far. Warner and Finch came out all guns blazing. They took the score 30/0 in 2.1 overs , but Southee struck and sent back Finch. Watson and Warner kept attacking and added 50 runs for the second wicket. However , the introduction of Vettori stemed the run flow. The veteran also provided the crucial wicket of Warner . 32.2 Corey Anderson to Haddin , out Caught by ( sub ) Tom Latham ! ! That 's it ! All over for Australia. They have been bowled out for their lowest World Cup score batting first. On a length just outside off , Haddin pokes at it rather feebly , the ball takes the outside half of the bat and flies to short third man , Latham completes the simplest of catches. Boult leads the team out of the field. Haddin c ( sub ) Tom Latham b Corey Anderson 43 ( 41 ) [ 4s-4 6s-2 ] Corey Anderson to Haddin , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 32.1 Corey Anderson to Haddin , SIX , what a welcome to the attack for Anderson ! Full and right in the slot , Haddin presses forward and hits it through the line , launches it over long-off for a maximum Corey Anderson , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 31.6 Milne to P Cummins , no run , on a length and well wide of off , Cummins lifts his bat and lets it go 31.5 Milne to P Cummins , no run , fuller and on leg-stump , Cummins closes the face of the bat little early , gets a soft leading edge back down the wicket 31.4 Milne to P Cummins , no run , Guptill saved four with a spectacular save. Low full toss outside off , Cummins opens the bat face and drives it on the bounce to the right of backward point , Guptill dives full length and makes an acrobatic stop 31.3 Milne to P Cummins , no run , 147.3kph bumper outside off , Cummins sinks under it and lets the bail sail over his head 31.2 Milne to P Cummins , no run , short of length just outside off , Cummins is happy to let it go through to the keeper 31.1 Milne to Haddin , 1 run , too straight from Milne , on middle and leg , Haddin tucks it in front of square , thinks about the second but decides against it as Boult got there quickly That will be the second drinks break ! It has been all New Zealand so far at Eden Park. Boult ripped through the Australian middle-order and recorded his maiden 5-wicket haul. Since then , these two have batted sensibly and added 38 runs. Australia 's lowest score in World Cup is 159. Can they go past that ? We 'll soon find out. . 30.6 Southee to P Cummins , no run , another short delivery , directed right at the batsman , Cummins sways away from the line of the delivery 30.5 Southee to P Cummins , no run , goes searching for the yorker , ends up bowling a full toss , Cummins drives it to mid-off 30.4 Southee to P Cummins , no run , bouncer close to off , Cummins does extremely well to get out of the way , he arches back and allows the ball to sail past him. The umpire signals one for the over 30.3 Southee to P Cummins , no run , sensible batting from Cummins , covers his sticks and shoulders arms to this length delivery 30.2 Southee to P Cummins , no run , on a length just outside off , Cummins lifts his bat and lets it go 30.1 Southee to P Cummins , FOUR , lovely shot ! It was pitched up and attacking the stumps , Cummins leans forward , presents the full face and on-drives it to the left of mid-on. The rich timing takes it to the fence 29.6 Milne to Haddin , FOUR , too many full tosses now from Milne , he needs to pitch the ball on the wicket first , Haddin backs away just a touch and bunts it square of the wicket , Guptill from third man runs to his right , puts in the dive but ends up dragging it back towards the rope off the trailing hand 29.5 Milne to Haddin , no run , low full toss from Milne , Haddin helps it in front of mid-wicket and was looking for the single there , but the ball went too quickly to the fielder there and they decide against it 29.4 Milne to Haddin , no run , in the blockhole , Haddin squeezes out the drive to extra cover 29.3 Milne to Haddin , no run , banged in short , Haddin backs away and looks to ramp it over the keeper 's head , ca n't connect though , the keeper jumps and gloves it 29.2 Milne to Haddin , no run , full and angling in on middle and leg , Haddin clips it to deep square leg , but does n't take the single once again 29.1 Milne to Haddin , no run , Haddin backs away once again and Milne follows him with a low full toss , he bunts it towards cover-point The batting powerplay yielded 25 runs 28.6 Southee to P Cummins , no run , angling down leg , Cummins nurdles it towards fine leg , he was looking for the single there but Haddin sends him back 28.5 Southee to P Cummins , no run , back of a length don off , Cummins defends off the back foot 28.4 Southee to Haddin , 1 run , full on middle , Haddin drives it to long-on and takes the single 28.3 Southee to Haddin , 2 runs , Haddin backs away once again and tries to late cut this short delivery once again , but ca n't time it well , the ball actually went a little high in the air off the face of the bat , beats the backward point fielder , who was running back and the batsmen come back for the second 28.2 Southee to Haddin , no run , backs away and looks to cut it through the infield on the off-side , but mistimes it and the ball rolls away to short third man 28.1 Southee to Haddin , FOUR , banged in short and outside off , Haddin backs away and cuts it late over short third man and the ball runs away to the fence , almost took the face of the security personnel there beyond the rope 27.6 Milne to P Cummins , no run , another yorker from Milne , Cummins jams it out once again , Cummins is doing well here to give Haddin company 27.5 Milne to P Cummins , no run , full and shaping away just a touch outside off , Cummins goes after it , but the ball goes past his outside edge 27.4 Milne to Haddin , 1 run , another full toss from Milne , Haddin bunts it towards mid-off , where Baz collects and throws the ball back towards the keeper , the ball however hits the joint between the pitch and the field and spins away from Ronchi , the batsmen then run for the overthrow before the fielder at fine leg gets around to stop it before the boundary 27.3 Milne to Haddin , no run , 150.4kph high full toss from Milne , Haddin pushes it to point 27.2 Milne to Haddin , no run , 151.5kph yorker on middle , Haddin jams it out back to the bowler 27.1 Milne to Haddin , no run , that was very close to shaving the off stump , it was full and just outside off , Haddin backs away and looks to drive it through the off-side , he misses and the ball goes through to the keeper Adam Milne , right-arm fast , comes into the attack Milne for the first time today , comes into the attack . 26.6 Southee to P Cummins , no run , length delivery just outside off , Cummins leans forward and pushes it in front of point 26.5 Southee to Haddin , 1 run , full and on the stumps , Haddin drives it down to long-on and gets off strike 26.4 Southee to Haddin , 2 runs , slower and banged in short , Haddin waits for it and short-arm pulls it behind square , the batsmen run for a brace before the fielder from deep square leg can cut it off 26.3 Southee to Haddin , no run , touch fuller and outside off , Haddin drives it uppishly off the front foot , the ball bounces just short of a diving McCullum at mid-off 26.3 Southee to Haddin , wide , bumper from Southee this time , Haddin goes for the hook , but the ball goes over his bat , the square leg umpire signals that it was over the head of the batsman , signalled a wide 26.2 Southee to Haddin , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Haddin drops it in front of cover and was thinking about the single there , but decides against it 26.1 Southee to Haddin , no run , just short of a good length and a little wide outside off , Haddin mistimes the flat-batted shot back to the bowler Tim Southee [ 6.0-0-50-2 ] is back into the attack Boult finishes his spell , a wonderful spell from him. His figures : 10-3-27-5. Remember he had given away 24 runs and was wicketless after 5 overs . 25.6 Boult to P Cummins , no run , how did that miss the stumps ? It was angling in on middle and leg , Cummins was pushing at it , but the ball beats the outside edge and also goes over the stumps 25.5 Boult to P Cummins , no run , comes round the wicket and bowls this just short of a good length and around off , Cummins defends it into the off-side There are 3 slips and a gully for Cummins 25.4 Boult to P Cummins , no run , good ball from Boult , it was the yorker and right on the stumps , Cummins manages to keep it out 25.3 Boult to P Cummins , no run , fuller and outside off , Cummins leans forward and drives it a little uppishly , the ball went on the bounce to Baz at mid-off 25.2 Boult to P Cummins , no run , good bumper from Boult , Cummins just about manages to sway away in time , must have surprised him though 25.1 Boult to P Cummins , no run , on middle and leg , Cummins turns it towards short mid-wicket Vettori has finished his spell. His figures : 10-0-41-2 24.6 Vettori to Haddin , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Haddin goes deep in the crease and punches it to cover 24.5 Vettori to Haddin , no run , floated up on off , Haddin leans forward and defends 24.4 Vettori to Haddin , SIX , touch too full from Vettori , Haddin just launches it over the long-off fence with ease , there was a fielder at long-off , but it went way over him 24.3 Vettori to Haddin , 2 runs , shortish and outside off , Haddin cuts it towards deep extra cover , the batsmen take two before the fielder from cover cuts it off just before the boundary 24.2 Vettori to Haddin , FOUR , tossed up outside off , Haddin lofts it to the long-on fence , the fielder at mid-on jumps , but ca n't get a hand on it , it was n't too high though 24.1 Vettori to P Cummins , 1 run , quicker on the pads , Cummins works ito mid-wicket for a single Australia have decided to take the batting powerplay 23.6 Boult to Haddin , no run , a loud shout for LBW , but that may have pitched outside leg , just short of a good length and angled across , Haddin fails to lay his bat onto it and wears it on the pad , Boult appealed but he knew it was n't a close shout 23.5 Boult to Haddin , no run , fuller and outside off , Haddin opens the face of the bat and pushes it towards backward point , where Guptill dives to his left to stop the ball Comes round the wicket now 23.4 Boult to P Cummins , 1 run , homing in on the pads , Cummins works it to fine leg and takes a single There are 4 slips in place for Cummins 23.3 Boult to P Cummins , no run , another good ball , on a good length and on the stumps , Cummins defends off the outside half of the bat 23.2 Boult to P Cummins , no run , full and angled across off , Cummins leaves it alone 23.1 Boult to Haddin , 1 run , angling in on middle and leg , Haddin flicks it in the air over mid-wicket and strangely , takes the single 22.6 Vettori to Haddin , 1 run , flighted delivery just outside off , Haddin leans forward and pushes it to long-off , he will keep the strike 22.5 Vettori to P Cummins , 1 run , in the blockhole this time , Cummins jams it out towards mid-off for a single 22.4 Vettori to P Cummins , no run , quicker and on the pad , Cummins fails to connect with the clip and wears it on the pad 22.3 Vettori to P Cummins , no run , tossed up just outside off , Cummins defends off the front foot 22.2 Vettori to P Cummins , no run , floated inside edge onto the pads around off , Cummins leans forward and blocks 22.1 Vettori to Haddin , 1 run , drifting on the pads , Haddin clips behind square for another run Pat Cummins , right handed bat , comes to the crease 21.6 Boult to Starc , out Bowled ! ! Boult takes a 5-fer ! This is just too good for the Australians. They are playing worse than a Divison 5 side here. It was on a good length and angling in on middle , Starc was looking to work it through the on-side , but fails to connect at all. He plays all around it and his middle stump is uprooted. Boult is just turning out to be too good for them. Mark Waugh on air says , " Well , I do n't know what to say " . Remember Waugh is an Australian selector and he 's pretty shaken with this performance. Australia are being blown away here. Starc b Boult 0 ( 3 ) Boult to Starc , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 21.5 Boult to Starc , no run , on a good length and on off and middle , Starc pushes it down to mid-on 21.4 Boult to Starc , no run , angling down leg , Starc was backing away just a touch , fails to connect with the clip and the ball goes off the thigh pad towards the keeper , who dives to his right and stops the ball Mitchell Starc , left handed bat , comes to the crease 21.3 Boult to Johnson , out Caught by Williamson ! ! Boult-Williamson duo back in action as Johnson goes now. A very poor shot from him there. It was fuller just outside off , Johnson went for the drive , but hits it uppishly , Williamson at short cover dives to his right and takes another good catch. Is there any stopping the Kiwi charge here ? Australia are falling like nine pins. Johnson c Williamson b Boult 1 ( 7 ) Boult to Johnson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 21.2 Boult to Johnson , no run , that 's not what you should do Johnson,especially when your side is 7 down for just 106 runs on the board , it was a back of a length delivery outside off , Johnson went for the pull , but missed it by a long way 21.1 Boult to Johnson , no run , touch fuller and holding its line outside off , Johnson shoulders arms 20.6 Vettori to Haddin , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Haddin goes right back in the crease and defends it with a straight bat 20.5 Vettori to Johnson , 1 run , drifting onto the pads this time , Johnson works it behind square and gets off the mark 20.4 Vettori to Johnson , no run , tossed up around off , Johnson pushes it into the off-side 20.3 Vettori to Johnson , no run , ohh , that was very close to taking the edge , it was pushed through outside off , Johnson was pushing at it , the ball just about beats the outside edge , Ronchi ca n't take it cleanly either 20.2 Vettori to Johnson , no run , slider a little wide outside off , Johnson goes after it , but the ball goes past the outside edge 20.1 Vettori to Haddin , 1 run , flighted delivery just outside off , Haddin opens the face of the bat and pushes it towards cover-point off the front foot , the batsmen cross over Mitchell Johnson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 19.6 Boult to Clarke , out Caught by Williamson ! ! Boult picks up his third wicket in two overs time. This is the big wicket , captain Clarke goes back in his comeback game. Australia are sliding down further here. It was on a good length and angled across off , Clarke pushes at it and ends up chipping it straight to Williamson at short cover. A very , very soft dismissal for Clarke. Clarke c Williamson b Boult 12 ( 18 ) [ 4s-1 ] Boult to Clarke , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 19.5 Boult to Clarke , no run , slightly back of a length and just outside off , Clarke defends to short cover off the back foot , shouts a loud 'No ' for the single 19.4 Boult to Clarke , no run , full and well outside off once again , Clarke is happy to leave that alone Comes round the wicket now 19.3 Boult to Clarke , no run , full and angling away well outside off , Clarke puts his front foot forward and shoulders arms 19.2 Boult to Clarke , no run , just short of a good length and on middle stump line , Clarke defends from the crease into the off-side 19.1 Boult to Haddin , leg byes , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the pads , Haddin ca n't tuck it away into the on-side , the ball goes off his thigh pad towards fine leg , the batsmen sneak in a single What has happened here ? Boult was in his delivery stride and Haddin just backs away just when Boult delivers the ball , the umpire signals a dead ball 18.6 Vettori to Haddin , 1 run , tossed up just outside off , Haddin presses forward and eases it down to long-off , he will keep the strike 18.5 Vettori to Haddin , FOUR , Vettori is not at all happy with himself here , drifts this on the pads , Haddin tickles it fine and the ball races away to the fence , a rare poor ball from the veteran 18.4 Vettori to Haddin , no run , floated up around off , Haddin leans forward and defends it to the left of the bowler 18.3 Vettori to Haddin , no run , quicker one on leg , Haddin stays back and pushes it towards short mid-wicket 18.2 Vettori to Clarke , 1 run , the slider on middle and leg , Clarke shuffles just a touch inside the crease and works it to square leg 18.1 Vettori to Clarke , no run , steps out of the crease and defends this slowish delivery outside off with his bat close to the pad 17.6 Boult to Haddin , no run , angles this one full on the stumps , Haddin drills it back to the bowler , who threatens to throw it back at the stumps , good aggression there from Boult Comes round the wicket now 17.5 Boult to Haddin , no run , just short of a good length and just outside off , Haddin shuffles across just a touch and defends off the back foot Brad Haddin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 17.4 Boult to M Marsh , out Bowled ! ! Ohh dear ! What is happening here ? The Australians have lost the plot. Marsh goes for a duck. It was a back of a length delivery shaping away outside off , Marsh pushes at it away from his body , gets an inside edge that crashes into the stumps. Boult is extremely happy once again. He is punching the air in delight. The Kiwis are on a roll here. M Marsh b Boult 0 ( 2 ) Boult to M Marsh , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 17.4 Boult to M Marsh , wide , down the leg-side , wide given 17.3 Boult to M Marsh , no run , angled across off , Marsh pushes at it , the ball rolls away past a diving short mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat , the fielder at mid-on was behind the fielder to collect the ball , hence , no chance of a run there Mitchell Marsh , right handed bat , comes to the crease 17.2 Boult to Maxwell , out Bowled ! ! The Black Caps are on fire here. Boult gets his first of the game. It was back of a length delivery angling away outside off , Maxwell went after it and looks to cut , but he ends up chopping it back onto the stumps. The Kiwis are jumping in the air in celebration. Half the Australian side is back in the hut now. They have lost 4 wickets for 18 runs in the last 27 balls. Maxwell b Boult 1 ( 3 ) Boult to Maxwell , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 17.1 Boult to Maxwell , no run , that 's a good ball from Boult in his new spell , a yorker right on the money , Maxwell squeezes it out into the off-side Trent Boult [ 5.0-0-24-0 ] is back into the attack 16.6 Vettori to Clarke , no run , quicker through the air , Clarke defends it back to the bowler 16.5 Vettori to Clarke , no run , pushed through on the stumps , Clarke turns it towards short mid-wicket 16.4 Vettori to Maxwell , 1 run , flighted delivery around off , Maxwell bunts it past the non-striker for a single Glenn Maxwell , right handed bat , comes to the crease 16.3 Vettori to S Smith , out Caught by Ronchi ! ! Another one bites the dust. Smith goes very early. It was the arm ball from Vettori that skids on from outside off , Smith was looking to force it through the off-side , the ball takes the outside edge and Ronchi snaffles it easily. Vettori was pumped up after that , not a usual sight , but he was extremely delighted there. S Smith c Ronchi b Vettori 4 ( 11 ) Vettori to S Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 16.2 Vettori to Clarke , 1 run , touch flatter and on middle , Clarke shuffles across and works it behind square for a single 16.1 Vettori to Clarke , no run , short and outside off , Clarke pulls but picks out short mid-wicket Vettori will continue after the drinks break Drinks are on the field now. Australia got off to a blistering start with both Warner and Finch going hard at the new ball bowlers. The Kiwi bowlers , especially Southee , looked a little nervous at the start. However , he came back well and sent Finch back. After that Warner and Watson continued to build-on , but New Zealand picked 2 wickets in 2 balls to come right back in the game. It has been an interesting contest so far , let 's see how the Australians go after the drinks break . 15.6 Southee to S Smith , no run , full and outside off , Smith puts his front foot forward and drives it to short cover 15.5 Southee to S Smith , no run , on a good length and shaping away just outside off , Smith leaves it for the keeper 15.4 Southee to Clarke , 1 run , back of a length delivery on leg , Clarke tucks it away to fine leg and gets to the other end 15.3 Southee to Clarke , FOUR , first boundary for Clarke , it was fullish and angling in on middle and leg , Clarke flicks it off his pads to the deep square leg fence , the ball runs away to the fence 15.2 Southee to Clarke , no run , just short of a good length and on middle , Clarke defends from the crease to the right of the bowler 15.1 Southee to Clarke , 2 runs , pitched up outside off , Clarke presses forward and drives it through cover , Baz keeps it to a couple 14.6 Vettori to S Smith , no run , flatter and around off , Smith shuffles across and taps it behind point. End of another good over from Vettori 14.5 Vettori to S Smith , no run , skips out of the crease and pushes it back to the bowler 14.4 Vettori to S Smith , no run , hangs back and jams it to the off-side , he was hurried for pace there 14.3 Vettori to Clarke , 1 run , comes down the track and nurdles it to backward square leg 14.2 Vettori to Clarke , no run , edged and safe ! This is top class left-arm spin bowling. The arm-ball that skids through , Clarke prods at it with laden feet , the ball takes the edge and drops in front of the slip fielder. Clarke was not pushing at it and hence the ball did n't carry 14.1 Vettori to S Smith , 1 run , flighted on middle , Smith steps out of the crease and knocks it to long-on 13.6 Southee to Clarke , 2 runs , good length ball outside off , Clarke eases into the drive , sends it rolling towards sweeper cover for a double 13.5 Southee to S Smith , 1 run , fullish and outside off , Smith drives it towards mid-off , B-Mac dives to his left and saves some runs for the team 13.4 Southee to S Smith , 2 runs , pitched up just outside off , Smith leans forward and creams the drive through cover , Baz once again gives chase and keeps it to two. He did n't time it as well as he would have liked 13.3 Southee to S Smith , no run , fuller and close to off , Smith presses it to mid-off after coming forward 13.2 Southee to S Smith , no run , on a length just outside off , Smith lifts his bat and lets it go Steven Smith , right handed bat , comes to the crease 13.1 Southee to Warner , out Lbw ! ! New Zealand are right back in the game. Umpire Illingworth was quick to raise his finger. Warner consulted Clarke before going for the review. It was a back of a length delivery that jags back in , Warner hopped in the crease and is rapped on the pads , it hit him above the knee-roll. The ball was kissing the top of middle-stump. Australia in a bit of trouble now. Warner lbw b Southee 34 ( 42 ) [ 4s-2 6s-1 ] Southee to Warner , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Warner is given out lbw. But he has reviewed it. Southee 's front foot is fine. No inside edge for sure. Was height an issue ? It hit him above the knee-roll. It pitched in-line and is just clipping the bails. The on-field call stays. Warner is gone ! Michael Clarke , right handed bat , comes to the crease 12.6 Vettori to Watson , out Caught by Southee ! ! Vettori strikes ! He is rewarded for some tight bowling. The crowd goes berserk. It was not all that short , but Watson still goes for the pull , mistimes it and picks out the fielder at deep mid-wicket , Southee moves to his right and takes a good low catch. The pressure was built for the last couple of overs and something had to give and it is the wicket of Watson. Watson c Southee b Vettori 23 ( 30 ) [ 4s-2 ] Vettori to Watson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 12.5 Vettori to Warner , 1 run , tossed up on off , Warner comes down the track and drives it to long-on 12.4 Vettori to Warner , no run , flighted on off , defended back to the bowler 12.3 Vettori to Watson , 1 run , arm-ball that hurries onto the batsman , Watson goes for the pull , mishits it completely to long-off 12.2 Vettori to Warner , 1 run , touch short just outside off , Warner cuts it to sweeper cover 12.1 Vettori to Watson , 1 run , flighted on off , Watson leans forward and wrists it to long-on 11.6 Southee to Warner , no run , tucks the batsman for room , Warner stays in the crease and bunts it to short mid-wicket 11.5 Southee to Watson , 1 run , touch short and outside off , Watson waits and plays the late cut to third man 11.4 Southee to Watson , no run , on a length close to off , Watson is half-forward defending to the off-side 11.3 Southee to Watson , 2 runs , angling in on middle , Watson leans forward and flicks it in front of square for a couple 11.2 Southee to Watson , 2 runs , fuller and homing away just outside off , Watson waits for the ball to swing , then caresses the drive to the left of mid-off , Baz gives chase and hauls it in just before the rope 11.1 Southee to Watson , no run , closer to the off-stump but not close enough to make Watson play , left alone 11.1 Southee to Watson , wide , starts his second spell the same way as he did his first , short and shaping away outside off , Watson goes chasing it , wided called by the umpire Tim Southee [ 3.0-0-32-1 ] is back into the attack 10.6 Vettori to Warner , no run , angled across off , Warner goes back and punches it to cover , calls " wait on " 10.5 Vettori to Watson , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Watson eases it off the back foot to long-on 10.4 Vettori to Watson , no run , slides on middle and leg , Watson works it to backward square , picks out the fielder there 10.3 Vettori to Watson , no run , skids on after pitching , Watson hangs back and bunts it to the right of Vettori 10.2 Vettori to Warner , 1 run , pushed through on middle , Warner plays the short-arm pull to deep square leg 10.1 Vettori to Warner , no run , floated up just outside off , Warner knocks it to mid-off. That was well bowled by Vettori , who dragged the length back seeing the batsman give charge 9.6 Boult to Watson , FOUR , the angle does n't work for Boult , drops it short and slants it in , Watson rocks back and muscles the pull behind square , the ball travels quickly to the fence. The fielder at fine leg had no chance of stopping that Switches to round the wicket ! 9.5 Boult to Watson , no run , back of a length on middle and leg , Watson is tucked for room , misses the clip and wears it high on the pad 9.4 Boult to Warner , 1 run , good length ball around off , Warner checks his shot , gets it through cover and its good enough for a single 9.3 Boult to Warner , no run , on a length close to off , Warner has a waft at it with his feet stuck in cement , the ball fizzes past the outside edge 9.2 Boult to Watson , 1 run , short and on leg-stump , Watson swivels and pulls to fine leg , did n't get it anywhere close to the middle of the bat 9.1 Boult to Watson , no run , back of a length close to off , Watson jumps across and bunts it to cover , calls " no , wait " to Warner 8.6 Vettori to Warner , no run , tossed up around off , Warner presses forward and blocks it to cover 8.5 Vettori to Warner , 2 runs , dropped ! It was a tough chance though. Quicker and outside off , Warner looks to flay it through the off-side , slices it to the right of backward point , Boult runs across , dives full length and gets a fingertip to it. Those need to stick. It was a great effort from Boult , not much he could have done 8.4 Vettori to Warner , no run , goes straight on , Warner goes down on one knee and misses the sweep , wears it on the mid-riff 8.3 Vettori to Watson , 1 run , tad short and just outside off , Watson cuts it behind point , short third gets across , dives and makes a fine save 8.2 Vettori to Warner , 1 run , flighted on the stumps , Warner leans forward and nudges it to deep mid-wicket 8.1 Vettori to Watson , 1 run , sloppy work , slower and on the stumps , Watson knocks it to the right of the bowler , Vettori moves across and tries to collect it with one hand , fumbles and lets the ball go through 7.6 Boult to Warner , no run , Warner was caught in a dilemma , it was back of a length outside off , Warner did n't know whether he had to play at that or not , the ball runs off the face of the bat to second slip 7.6 Boult to Warner , wide , splays it down leg , Warner ca n't nail the flick , wide given 7.5 Boult to Warner , 2 runs , on a length just outside off , Warner comes on the front foot , checks his drive and pushes it between extra cover and mid-off , Baz gives chase and keeps it down to two 7.4 Boult to Watson , 1 run , Watson is looking scratchy , Boult teases him with another fuller length delivery , Watson drives and ekes out an inside edge to fine leg. That was not far away from the leg-stump 7.3 Boult to Watson , no run , pitched up just outside off , Watson goes for the drive , the bat turns in his hands , takes the inside half and rolls towards short mid-wicket , fine stop diving to the right 7.2 Boult to Watson , no run , this time an inside edge , fuller and holds its line , Watson goes for the drive with minimal footwork , the ball takes the inner part and thuds into the pad 7.1 Boult to Watson , no run , digs it in halfway down the wicket , Watson swivels on the pull , gets an under-edge onto the back thigh , the ball dribbles to the off-side 6.6 Vettori to Warner , 2 runs , fraction short and outside off , Warner cuts it in front of square and picks up a couple. That 's a superb over from the veteran spinner , just the 2 runs coming off it 6.5 Vettori to Warner , no run , on the leg-stump line , Warner kneels down and sweeps , picks out backward square to perfection A slip and leg slip in place. . 6.4 Vettori to Warner , no run , quicker and on the stumps , Warner mistimes the heave to short mid-wicket , it was in the air , but falls just in front of the fielder 6.3 Vettori to Warner , no run , tossed up and angled across from round the wicket , Warner push-drives it to short cover 6.2 Vettori to Warner , no run , flighted on off , Warner presses forward and blocks it to the off-side 6.1 Vettori to Warner , no run , flatter and just outside off , Warner looks to flash it through the off-side , mishits it to mid-off , slight fumble but the duo do n't risk the single Daniel Vettori , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 5.6 Boult to Watson , no run , shortens the length just outside off , Watson waves it through to the keeper 5.5 Boult to Warner , 1 run , teasing length from Boult , full and outside off , Warner goes chasing it , the outside edge is found and it flies down to third man , drops in front of Southee , who does well to get his body behind the ball 5.4 Boult to Warner , no run , fuller and on off , Warner prefers to hang back and turns it gently towards mid-on , shouts " no " for the single 5.3 Boult to Watson , 1 run , length delivery on middle and leg , Watson nurdles it behind square leg for a single 5.2 Boult to Watson , no run , 144kph back of a length delivery around off , Watson arches back , drops his gloves and lets it thud into Ronchi 's gloves 5.1 Boult to Warner , 1 run , short of length on off , Warner tucks it with one leg in the air to deep mid-wicket 4.6 Southee to Warner , 1 run , good length ball on middle , Warner goes deep in the crease and works it to the vacant mid-wicket region for a single 4.5 Southee to Warner , no run , back of a length just outside off , Warner bunts it off the back foot to cover 4.4 Southee to Warner , no run , better ! On a length close to off , Warner presents the full face of the bat and defends it down the wicket 4.3 Southee to Warner , FOUR , Warner is toying with the field now , the fielder was moved behind square and he pulls it in front of square this time. Again , Southee goes short and pays the price 4.2 Southee to Warner , FOUR , poor delivery from Southee , dug in mid-way down the wicket , Warner is quick to pick up the length , he rocks back , swivels across and pulls it behind square for a one bounce four 4.1 Southee to Warner , no run , bumper on leg-stump , Warner half-ducks and lets it sail over his right shoulder 3.6 Boult to Watson , no run , beauty ! Watson is down on his knees. Inswinging yorker , aimed right at the base of off-stump , Watson somehow manages to bring his bat down and jam it to short mid-wicket. He was hurried for pace there 3.5 Boult to Watson , no run , slanted across the right-hander , Watson covers his sticks and lets it go through to Ronchi 3.4 Boult to Warner , 1 run , too straight , on middle and leg , the length is touch short as well , Warner jumps across and nurdles it to deep square leg 3.3 Boult to Warner , no run , tight line from Boult , in and around off-stump , Warner moves forward and knocks it back to the bowler , Boult tries to throw the ball , but it pops out and goes towards mid-wicket , Warner thinks about the single but decides against it 3.2 Boult to Warner , 2 runs , pitched up outside off , Warner gets a good stride forward and drives it through cover , Baz runs to his right from mid-off and keeps it down to a brace 3.1 Boult to Warner , no run , back of a length and on the stumps , no room for Warner to free his arms , he gets right behind the line and defends it to mid-on 2.6 Southee to Watson , no run , much better , fullish and on off , Watson plays it round the pads and works it towards mid-on , calls " wait , wait " for the single. An eventful over from Southee comes to an end 2.5 Southee to Watson , 2 runs , full and attacking the stumps , he is trying to rap Watson on the pads , but the batsman is up for it , presses forward and clips it elegantly to deep square leg for a couple 2.4 Southee to Watson , no run , good length ball just outside off , Watson inches forward , lifts his bat and lets it go 2.3 Southee to Watson , FOUR , friendly welcome by Southee , offers a juicy full toss on the pads , Watson says thank you very much and puts it away. He leans forward and flicks it square of the wicket and the ball whistles away to the fence Shane Watson , right handed bat , comes to the crease 2.2 Southee to Finch , out Bowled ! ! Cleaned up ! The off-stump is uprooted and Southee roars in delight. What a comeback from him ! Pitches it on a length and gets it to shape back in , Finch tries to repeat the previous shot , leaves a gap between bat and pad , the ball sneaks through and crashes into the off-stump. That should settle some nerves. Finch b Southee 14 ( 7 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] Southee to Finch , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 2.1 Southee to Finch , SIX , superb shot ! That is hit through the line. Length delivery right in Finch 's arc , he comes forward and launches it over mid-on for a maximum. It was a clean strike from Finch , he presented the full face of the bat 1.6 Boult to Warner , no run , shortens the length around off , Warner mistimes the cut towards cover , it was in the air for a while but falls short of the fielder 1.5 Boult to Warner , no run , good length ball curling away outside off , Warner presses forward and shoulders arms 1.4 Boult to Warner , no run , finally , they get it in the right area , on a length and homing away outside off , Warner goes for the drive with laden feet , the ball whizzes past the outside edge 1.3 Boult to Warner , 2 runs , short and bit of width on offer , Warner flays it over the in-field on the off-side , not timed well enough but good for a couple 1.2 Boult to Warner , SIX , mishit and it flies over the boundary. That is very cruel for the bowler. It was fuller and shapes away just outside off , Warner goes for the heave across the line , the ball takes the top-edge and goes over the slip cordon. The short boundary takes it all the way 1.1 Boult to Finch , leg byes , 1 run , hint of inward movement for Boult , starts from the middle stump line and gets it to swing in , Finch hangs back and ca n't nail the flick , the ball thuds into the pads and rolls behind square Trent Boult , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Southee to Warner , byes , FOUR , this one takes off from the deck , banged in halfway down the wicket , Warner goes for the pull , does n't connect and the ball flies over a leaping Ronchi 0.5 Southee to Finch , 1 run , again , on off and middle , Finch works it towards mid-wicket , Elliott dives to his right and makes a slight fumble which allows the duo to pinch a single 0.4 Southee to Finch , no run , pitched up just outside off , Finch comes forward and drives to mid-off , no real timing on that as he picks the fielder Three slips in place for Southee. . 0.3 Southee to Finch , FOUR , Southee has still not got his radar right , drifts it down leg , Finch just needed to get some wood on that , he manages to do that as he glances it fine , no chance for the fielder in the deep 0.2 Southee to Warner , 1 run , bit too straight from Southee , on middle and leg , Warner leans forward and flicks it to deep mid-wicket 0.2 Southee to Warner , wide , a perfect delivery for the right-hander , not so for Warner. Full and shaping away down leg , Warner fails to connect with the clip , wided by the umpire 0.1 Southee to Finch , 3 runs , back of a length on off , Finch hops across and plays the short-arm pull to the right of mid-on , Milne runs behind the ball , slides and hauls it in just before the rope. The batsmen scamper back for three 0.1 Southee to Finch , wide , bit of nerves from Southee , there is some swing straightaway , but it is short and well wide of off , Finch goes chasing after it , but is nowhere close to the ball. Umpire Erasmus exercises his arms Finch and Warner are at the crease. Finch is on strike. Southee will open the attack The national anthems are done. The Black Caps are in a huddle , with Brendon McCullum giving the final instructions to the team. Finch and Warner stride out to the middle. The former marks his guard. The countdown begins with Southee on top of his run-up. Here we go.. . Pitch Report : " We have got a blue sky and no chance of rain. The pitch looks flat and looks like a belter. There is not going to be much pace , but the new ball will swing a bit. It is a short boundary and it is all about how many runs you can get , " reckons Shane Warne Teams : Australia ( Playing XI ) : David Warner , Aaron Finch , Shane Watson , Michael Clarke ( c ) , Steven Smith , Glenn Maxwell , Mitchell Marsh , Brad Haddin ( w ) , Mitchell Johnson , Mitchell Starc , Pat Cummins New Zealand ( Playing XI ) : Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Martin Guptill , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Grant Elliott , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( w ) , Daniel Vettori , Adam Milne , Tim Southee , Trent Boult Australia have won the toss and have opted to bat McCullum : " Obviously , two well respected families and the trophy means a lot to us. We have n't played it for a long time. So , it 's nice for us to go on the line today. We would have bowled first as well. The stats here are pretty favorable to the team bowling first. The wicket looks great and the outfield looks amazing , I am sure we are going to get a fantastic crowd. We have two good teams going at it and obviously a big scalp on the line with the Chappell-Hadlee Trophy as well. The guys had left for a couple of days , reconnecting with their families , then we came back together as a group and we trained pretty hard over the last couple of days. It 's great to be able to have that luxury of allowing guys to go home for a couple of days. But , our focus is pretty much now on this game. We have got some big games coming up in this tournament and this is certainly one of them. So , it 's an exciting day. No , we have got the same team. That 's the beauty of us playing some good cricket. We get to give the same guys the opportunity again against a very good Australian team. So , we will go well. If we bowl well first up and then we can go about chasing whatever total they set us. " Clarke : " Not a bad place to play here at the Eden Park. It 's going to be a fantastic crowd , they will certainly turn the weather on , so hopefully , we can put on a good show. We are going to have a bat first. The wicket looks fantastic , I think it 's going to be pretty even for both teams. Batting first or bowling first is irrelevant. I think it would be nice to put some runs on the board. We are sick of training. We obviously got here early , got here last Sunday in preparation to prepare in different conditions from what we get back home in Australia. So , everybody is really excited. A good crowd coming , so lets hope we can entertain and put on a really good game. Pat Cummins comes in and gets an opportunity for Josh Hazlewood. The boys are really excited and we have spoken a lot about the squad playing a big role in us having success throughout this tournament and this game will be no different. " That concludes our pre-match build-up. We are not too far away from the toss as well. Stay tuned . FORM GUIDE Based on current form , Australia and New Zealand are the two best teams in the World Cup. So , let us have a look as to why these two are favorites to win the competition . New Zealand Brendon McCullum 's captaincy has been talked about much in the last couple of months. He leads the team in the same way he approaches his batting , that is , with an attacking , aggressive mindset. So far in the tournament , the Black Caps have thrashed Sri Lanka , beaten Scotland and annihilated England. Out of these three games , only in the game against Scotland they had a slight stutter and that was because they wanted to finish the game off in a hurry , sending out a message of intent to other teams. Apart from that , the encounters against Sri Lanka and England have been fairly one-sided to say the least . McCullum and Kane Williamson have been in the form of their lives. These two Kiwi batsmen have been consistent over the past 12 months. Martin Guptill and Ross Taylor form the rest of the top-order. Though they have not been as consistent , the two have had their moments. Luke Ronchi and Corey Anderson have stood up whenever the team has needed them. Grant Elliot 's role as an all-rounder ca n't be discarded either. Coming to the bowling , Tim Southee and Trent Boult are arguably the best new ball pair at the moment. Add to that the pace of Adam Milne and experience of Daniel Vettori. It sure makes for a formidable bowling line-up . Australia Australia have had a switch in captaincy in the 50-over format on a regular basis. However , one thing that remains constant whether they are playing under George Bailey or Michael Clarke or Steven Smith , is the killer instinct. They started their World Cup campaign against familiar foes , England. Aaron Finch scored a majestic hundred with George Bailey and Glenn Maxwell scoring fifties. Then , an unlikely hero with the ball rose to the occasion , Mitchell Marsh claimed his career best figures and the Aussies won by 111 runs. However , their second game versus Bangladesh was washed out due to Cyclone Marcia . Michael Clarke , who was given a deadline to be fit for the Bangladesh game , got himself another week 's time. And now he is back and will lead Australia in this crucial encounter. It will be a direct swap with George Bailey. The only concern for the Aussies is the form of Shane Watson coming into this game. Other than that , the side looks settled with the two Mitchells - Johnson and Starc - shouldering the responsibilities of the bowling attack. Josh Hazlewood might miss out and Pat Cummins is his likely replacement . The 2015 World Cup is almost two weeks old and has seen plenty of action already. Let us see what are the few things that we have witnessed so far. Centuries - check , Double century - check , 5-wicket hauls - check , Hat-trick - check. India-Pakistan - check , Australia-England - check. And that now brings us to one of the biggest games of the tournament , New Zealand versus Australia. The Trans-Tasman rivalry is not just the only thing riding on this encounter . First of all , the winner of this game will claim the Chappell-Hadlee Trophy. Second , since these two teams are the co-hosts , whichever team finishes higher in the Pool will get to host the semi-final , should they come up against each other during that stage in the tournament. The winner of this game could well turn out to be Pool toppers and will definitely hold that advantage. Then , there is the momentum that these two teams are carrying forward , which neither would want to give up . BLAST FROM THE PAST In World Cups , both teams have played each other on 8 occasions , with Australia leading 6-2 before today 's game. Australia won twice in 1987 and once in 1996 , 2003 , 2007 and 2011 editions. New Zealand won in 1992 and 1999 . Indore , 1987 After the game got postponed by a day due to rain , it was reduced to a 30-over game on the next day. Australia batted first and put on 199 , led by a 117-run partnership between David Boon and Dean Jones. In reply , John Wright and Ken Rutherford started off brilliantly , putting on 83 in just 12 overs. Martin Crowe then scored a 46-ball 58 to take his team within touching distance of the total. With 7 needed off the over , Steve Waugh first took the wicket of Crowe off the very first ball and then he bowled Ian Smith with a yorker on the very next delivery. Eventually , Martin Snedden was run-out and Australia managed to win the thrilling contest by 3 runs . Chandigarh , 1987 Riding on a century from Geoff Marsh , who became the third player after Sunil Gavaskar and Glenn Turner , to bat throughout a World Cup innings , Australia posted 251 on the board. The Kiwis started off well with John Wright and Martin Snedden putting on a 72-run stand for the opening wicket. After that New Zealand kept losing wickets at regular intervals and eventually folded 17 runs short of the Australian total . Auckland , 1992 Eden Park , the venue today , also hosted the World Cup opener between these two co-hosts in 1992. In the game , New Zealand got off to a really poor start , losing 2 wickets for just 13 runs on the board. Their captain Martin Crowe then took on the onus upon himself and notched up an unbeaten century to lift his team to 248/6. Crowe then opened the bowling with Dipak Patel , who kept a tight lid on the openers. Even though David Boon hit a century and Steve Waugh made a 34-ball 38 lower down the order , the defending champions lost their last 5 wickets for just 12 runs and were bowled out for 211 . Chennai , 1996 In the 4th quarter-final , Chris Harris scored his maiden ODI century and guided his team to an imposing total of 286 , then their highest total against Australia in ODIs. For Australia , Mark Waugh starred with the bat , scoring his third century of the tournament. Steve Waugh , Marks twin brother , then finished with 59 not out and took his team through to the semis , with 13 balls to spare . Cardiff , 1999 After losing Mark Waugh and Adam Gilchrist , Ricky Ponting and Darren Lehmann then put on a 94-run stand to lift Australia to 126 after they were 32/2 at one stage. However , the Australian innings could never take off as Geoff Allott picked up 4/37 to restrict Australia to 213/8. New Zealand were in deep trouble when they were 49/4 , before a 148-run stand between Roger Twose and Chris Cairns steadied their ship. In the end , New Zealand cruised to a 5-wicket victory in 45.2 overs . Port Elizabeth , 2003 In their Super Six game , Shane Bond took his career-best figures of 6/23 to leave Australia struggling at 84/7 at one stage. However , a 97-run partnership between Michael Bevan and Andy Bichel gave them some respectability as they finished with 208 for 9. With a semi-final spot up for grabs , New Zealand failed to make the most of the opportunity and crumbled in front of some great bowling from Brett Lee and Glenn McGrath. While Lee picked a 5-wicket haul , McGrath took 3 wickets , to bowl out New Zealand for a paltry 112 . Grenada , 2007 Before this Super 8 game even started , the last four spots had already been decided and hence , it was inconsequential. Mathew Hayden scored a century and with Shane Watson going berserk at the end , Australia posted a mammoth 348/6 in their 50 overs. For New Zealand , apart from Peter Fulton , none of the Kiwi batsmen got going and they were bowled out for a meagre 133 in just the 26th over . Nagpur , 2011 Superb exhibition of fast bowling from Shaun Tait and Mitchell Johnson left New Zealand reeling at 73/6 in 17 overs. However , Daniel Vettori ( 44 ) and Nathan McCullum ( 52 ) then helped New Zealand recover as they managed to cross the 200-run mark. A 133-run opening partnership between Watson and Haddin set-up the run-chase. In the end , Australia romped home with 7 wickets and 16 overs to go . Hello folks ! Today , Akshay Maanay and I ( Sidhant Maheshwari ) , will try and bring you the most comprehensive coverage of the match that is being termed as 'The Clash of the Titans' Feb 1 , 1981 : Benson & Hedges World Series Cup , 3rd Final , MCG With the best-of-five final tied at 1-1 , New Zealand needs 6 runs off the last ball to tie the third game. Brian McKechnie is on strike and Trevor Chappell is the bowler. What happened next became one of the biggest controversies in cricket 's history. Greg Chappell , the Australian captain and Trevor 's older brother , instructs his bowler/brother , to roll the final delivery. Trevor obliges and under-arms the ball , McKechnie defends and throws the bat away in sheer anger . Greg Chappell 's step created a lot of furore and was condemned all over. Bowling underarm was legal at that point of time , but was considered against the spirit of the game. The incident drew widespread criticism from all quarters , including the then Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser and New Zealand 's Prime Minister Robert Muldoon , who described the incident as " the most disgusting incident I can recall in the history of cricket " . Doing commentary for Channel 9 at that time , Richie Benaud , the legendary Australian captain , described it as disgraceful and one of the worst things that he has seen on the cricket field. To add to that , Ian Chappell , former Australian captain himself and the older brother of Greg and Trevor , was not too pleased with his brothers action either. He was heard saying , " No , Greg , no , you ca n't do that " in the commentary box . As a result of this incident , the International Cricket Council ( then International Cricket Conference ) , amended the Laws of Cricket and deemed underarm deliveries illegal. Even though this entire fiasco took place 34 years back , it galvanised a Trans-Tasman cricket rivalry , which will be at its apex today . Do you know why the rivalry between Australia and New Zealand has gained so much prominence over the years ? It happened because of a particular incident that took place in 1981 . So , why it is known as the Trans-Tasman rivalry ? The term Trans-Tasman is used for the inter-relations between both Australia and New Zealand , since the two countries are geographically separated by the Tasman Sea . 11 : 30 Local Time , 23 : 30 GMT , 05 : 00 IST : Sometimes your neighbours are your fiercest rivals. The India-Pakistan rivalry is probably the biggest when you talk about neighbouring countries. Is n't it ? But , today we are going to witness another huge rivalry , the Trans-Tasman rivalry between the two host nations of the 2015 World Cup , New Zealand and Australia . Preview World Cup co-hosts and pre-tournament favourites , Australia and New Zealand will square off in the all important Pool A encounter at the scenic Eden Park in Auckland on Saturday. A lot rides on the outcome of the Trans-Tasman clash besides bragging rights. For starters , the winner of the game will take home the coveted Chappell-Hadlee trophy . With both Australia and New Zealand enjoying a fine run of form , there is an added incentive of a potential top of the table finish for the game 's winner. This would enable the winner to play a significantly weaker opponent in the quarter-finals. More importantly , neither team would want to concede any ground or momentum to the other considering the high probability of the two meeting again at the business end of the tournament. Should the teams meet in the semi-finals , their relative positions in the table become significant in determining whether the game gets played in Australia or New Zealand . Australia last played a game on the opening day of the World Cup when they routed England at the MCG. Cyclone Marcia interfered to give them an extended break after their game against Bangladesh was washed out. New Zealand , on the other hand , demolished Sri Lanka , Scotland and England in a three-game first week. All that will count for little when the teams step out tomorrow . Australia : Australia will cross the Tasman Sea knowing fully well that they will be up against a much different New Zealand side than the one they 've been accustomed to in the 2000s. With the washout in Brisbane , Michael Clarke got himself another week of recovery activity. He will lead the side out for the first time this World Cup. Stand-in skipper George Bailey will make way for Clarke 's return. James Faulkner is not fully fit and will not feature. Australia will be hopeful of another explosive start from David Warner and Aaron Finch. The talk from the team management is that Josh Hazlewood , who conceded 45 from his six overs against England , will make way for Pat Cummins . Player to watch out for : Shane Watson. The burly all-rounder got a first-baller from Stuart Broad in Melbourne. He could do with putting some runs on the board or run the risk of losing his place in the side to either James Faulkner or George Bailey . Playing XI : David Warner , Aaron Finch , Shane Watson , Michael Clarke ( c ) , Steven Smith , Glenn Maxwell , Mitchell Marsh , Brad Haddin ( wk ) , Mitchell Johnson , Mitchell Starc , Pat Cummins . New Zealand : The Brendon McCullum-led side have run through sides with their three-prong pace attack and explosive top-order batting. In Brendon McCullum and Kane Williamson , they have the two most consistent batsmen in ODI cricket. Martin Guptill and Ross Taylor however have yet to play an innings of substance and that remains their only weakness needing ironing out. Daniel Vettori 's comeback to international cricket has been a revelation thus far. His ability to control the middle part of the innings with his left-armers holds the Kiwis in good stead going into their crucial clash. New Zealand are expected to name an unchanged eleven . Player to watch out for : Tim Southee , since destroying England with his seven-fer , suffered a shoulder niggle but is said to have recovered sufficiently for the clash. His battle with the Australian openers could shape the match . Playing XI ( Probable ) : Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Martin Guptill , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Grant Elliott , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( wk ) , Daniel Vettori , Trent Boult , Tim Southee , AdamMilne . Pitch and Conditions : The pitch , along with Eden Park 's short boundaries , is expected to serve-up another 300 + score but with the quality of bowlers in either ranks , 270-280 could prove to be par. The weather is expected to remain pleasantly sunny despite showers disrupting Australia 's practice session early on Friday . Stats and Trivia : WWWWW vs WWWWW : Both teams enter the game having won each of their last five ODIs. Australia went through the CB series undefeated while New Zealand won ODI series against Pakistan at home before winning their three opening encounters in the World Cup . The two teams met in the 2011 World Cup at Nagpur where Australia ran away with a comfortable seven-wicket win. Shane Watson top scored then with 62 . Quotes : " You always want to beat Australia. It just feels like another World Cup game that we have to win but I am sure that when we turn up to the ground and see the crowdroll in , and there will be a little bit more hype. It will be pretty cool. " - New Zealand all-rounder Corey Anderson could n't contain his excitement at the prospect of playing Australia " There 's probably not going to be any surprises from either team. There 's no real mystery spinner from either side to worry about. The Kiwis swing the ball right atthe start , left and right arm , so we just have to play it on merit. " - In-form Australian batsman Aaron Finch on what to expect from the game . Teams : Australia ( From ) : David Warner , Aaron Finch , Shane Watson , Michael Clarke ( c ) , Steven Smith , Glenn Maxwell , Mitchell Marsh , Brad Haddin ( w ) , Mitchell Johnson , Mitchell Starc , Pat Cummins , Josh Hazlewood , George Bailey , Xavier Doherty , James Faulkner New Zealand ( From ) : Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Martin Guptill , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Grant Elliott , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( w ) , Daniel Vettori , Adam Milne , Tim Southee , Trent Boult , Tom Latham , Mitchell McClenaghan , Nathan McCullum , Kyle Mills Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
