BCCI Gives New Deadline to West Indies Cricket Board BCCI Gives New Deadline to West Indies Cricket Board The Board of Control for Cricket in India had demanded $ 42 million in compensation after West Indies players had cut short their India tour over pay-related dispute with their board . Last updated on Saturday , 24 January , 2015 13 : 37 IST Total Shares File photo from West Indies ' tour to India last year . © AP Bridgetown : The West Indies Cricket Board ( WICB ) has been given until Tuesday to respond to the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) $ 42 million compensation claim for abandoning midway the Test and ODI series last year . Quoting the contents of an email from the BCCI , the Trinidad Express newspaper reported on Friday that Indian board could no longer hold off on the claim lodged last month , reports CMC . If no response from the WICB was forthcoming by the stated deadline , the BCCI made it clear it would " initiate legal proceedings in the appropriate forum against the WICB without further intimation " . In its initial communication last year , the BCCI had given the WICB until mid-November last year to indicate how it would settle the claim amount . However , the subsequent intervention of CARICOM , the establishment of the Caribbean Community and Common Market , saw the BCCI accede to the body ’ s request to delay any further pursuit of the claim for a further 40 days . With that time period now expired , the BCCI said it would no longer wait . " The BCCI acquiesced to the same in the hope that an acceptable resolution would be achieved through Caricom ’ s able mediation , " said the letter , signed by BCCI secretary Sanjay Patel and copied to WICB president Dave Cameron and CARICOM Secretary General Irwin Laroque . " However , it is with regret that the BCCI finds itself in a position where its expectations have remained wholly unfulfilled with there being no progress in finding a solution that is acceptable to the BCCI despite the 40 days time period having long since expired . " The BCCI can not any longer hold off from pursuing its claims. We hope that CARICOM will understand our position. " WICB communication manager , Imran Khan confirmed receipt of the BCCI 's latest communication but could not elaborate further . The multi-million dollar claim arose from the abandoned tour of India last October , when the West Indies one-day team walked out of the series after failing to settle a contracts dispute with their union , WIPA . While the discontent rumbled from the start of the tour , the West Indies players only quit following the fourth ODI in Dharamsala , with an ODI in Kolkata and Twenty20 in Cuttack remaining . The three-Test tour , scheduled to bowl off Oct 30 , 2014 , was also scuppered . A furious BCCI accused the WICB of having " complete disregard " for legal commitments , contending that the cancelled tour had resulted in " adverse financial ramifications ” . Media rights make up the bulk of the losses with the BCCI estimating them at just over $ 35 million . Story first published on : Saturday , 24 January 2015 12 : 26 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
