Graphs That concludes proceedings from this game. Tomorrow we have an off , but do join us back on Tuesday for Ireland 's encounter with South Africa in Canberra. Goodbye ! Misbah : " It was really tough , because it was a make or break game for us. We were in a must-win situation. So , I think , you ca n't believe that how happy we are because we are out of the tournament if we lost this game. The pitch was n't easy , it was just holding up and it was a bit two-paced. When I just went there , I found it really difficult to rotate the strike or just hit boundaries. So I was just guessing that if we could get to 250-260 runs , that could be really challenging because we are bowling with five regular bowlers. Especially , with the pace and the kind of bounce , the ball was stopping a little bit. At the end , we were just 15-20 short after losing those wickets , but I think still the quality we have in the bowling line-up , they showed it today. Irfan , all the four seamers , and at the end Shahid Afridi also bowled well. Fielding was also good. I think credit should be given to the fast bowlers for the way they bowled today. When there is extra bounce , he ( Irfan ) is a kind of bowler if somebody have n't faced him before , especially on Australian pitches it could be really difficult for the batsmen to face him. He showed his class today and he just clicked at the right time. We need to really work hard , because we need improve our batting line-up. We saw all the teams are getting to 300 , 280 , 290 , so we really need to start well and then capitalise. " Chigumbura : " Not yet ( asked if he knew about the extent of his muscle tear ) . I am still yet to go for a scan tomorrow morning. So I will know tomorrow morning. Today it ( the bowling ) was much better , I thought we executed well , but we gave away too many extras if you are being critical with our bowling. But , overall , from the last game and this game , there was a big improvement with the ball. It 's always disappointing to lose a game like this one when we felt that we had a good chance of winning the game. I thought when Hamilton went out was the turning point of the game. So I think we just have to learn from that and hopefully we can improve in those situations. That 's been our weakness. We have n't had one guy scoring a hundred or batting through. I think that is something that we can still work on and hopefully we can have guys putting up their hands and scoring hundreds. " Riaz : " The discussion was to play all 50 overs. If we need to take any chances , we have to go after the bowling in the last 3 or 4 overs. The plan was to take singles as much as possible and rotation of the strike and this is what we were trying to do. I think , the whole team management is really working hard on me. They believe that I can do something in my batting. They always take me to the nets and let me do as much practice as I can. Thanks to them , I have performed on the day when we needed it the most. In the start , I was not enjoying it. The ball was n't coming onto the bat. It was not going through as well. But we have to work hard and the way all the fast bowlers bowled , plus Shahid Afridi , I think the credit goes to the whole team and in the end we won the game. We always expect him ( Irfan ) to take wickets as early as possible and put the other team under pressure. He did it on the day we needed the most. We know that there were not many runs on the board , but he bowled really well. I want to dedicate this trophy to my dad and mom , I think they will be very happy. This is for you dad and mom. Thank you. " Wahab Riaz is the Man of the Match for his 54 * and 4/45 The Pakistani camp would be happy with the performance of their bowlers. In particular , Irfan 's ability to extract steep bounce from a length would have gladdened the hearts of their coaching staff. However , their fielding was shoddy to say the least and for the umpteenth time , Misbah had to shore up Pakistan 's batting line-up. For Zimbabwe , it turned out to be a case of so near yet so far. They would rue the batting collapse in the middle overs. Zimbabwe also dropped crucial catches in the slog overs. After this morale boosting win , Pakistan will next take on UAE in Napier. On the other hand , Zimbabwe will face Ireland in Hobart . Misbah-ul-Haq looked to steady Pakistan 's innings and in Haris Sohail , he found an able ally. But Haris undid all the good work of constructing a 50-run partnership by getting out to Raza. Umar Akmal , then stepped up to the plate to provide Pakistan 's innings a bit of impetus. But Williams took two wickets in quick succession , including the prized scalp of Shahid Afridi to help Zimbabwe gain the ascendancy. In fact , if it was n't for Riaz 's unrestrained bravado with the bat in hand in the slog overs , Pakistan could have ended up with a score of around 200. Riaz even compiled his first fifty in ODIs . Earlier , Zimbabwe put up a thoroughly professional show with the ball in hand to restrict Pakistan to a modest total on the board. Tendai Chatara and Tinashe Panyangara bowled parsimoniously upfront. Both the pacers swung the new ball and got movement off the deck. Chatara 's disciplined first spell bore fruit as he picked up the wickets of both openers , Nasir Jamshed and Ahmed Shehzad. In fact , the ball to dismiss Shehzad was a peach of a delivery as it straightened off the track to produce the edge and Taylor took an easy catch behind the stumps. As far as Jamshed is concerned , with just 58 runs to his name in his last eight ODIs , he has certainly been in poor form in recent times . For a brief period , Brendan Taylor raised Zimbabwe 's hopes of chasing down the target. Taylor showed the ability to play shots in a 360-degree arc. He even ramped a short ball from Riaz over the wicket-keeper for a cheeky boundary. But once he and Sean Williams were dismissed , Zimbabwe lost wickets in a heap. Elton Chigumbura , who suffered a suspected muscle tear while fielding , came out to bat , and played a few fine shots and took Zimbabwe closer to a win , but in the end , they could n't cross the finishing line . Mohammad Irfan produced a wonderful spell of aggressive fast bowling to take four wickets and help Pakistan win a keenly contested game. It was their first win in this World Cup. The 71 towering giant , Irfan , bowled with venomous pace and extracted awkward bounce to trouble Zimbabwe 's batsmen. Chamu Chibhabha , Sikandar Raza and Solomon Mire were all dismissed on the back of steep bounce extracted by Irfan. He also took the important wicket of Hamilton Masakadza. Wahab Riaz gave Irfan good support by taking four wickets as well . The Pakistani fans are elated in the stands. Why not ? Their side has avoided a humiliating loss. The Zimbabwean players come down and shake hands with their opponents. Irfan is a happy man as he walks off the field . 49.4 Riaz to Chigumbura , out Caught by U Akmal ! ! That 's it ! Pakistan have won and Riaz ends with a 4-fer. Fifth catch for Akmal today. Slower ball bumper from Riaz , Chigumbura looks to pull but gets a top edge , the keeper moves to his left and takes an easy catch. Chigumbura c U Akmal b Riaz 35 ( 35 ) [ 4s-4 ] Riaz to Chigumbura , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Tendai Chatara , right handed bat , comes to the crease 49.3 Riaz to Panyangara , out Panyangara Run Out ! ! Short ball on the stumps , Panyangara goes right across the stumps and tries to help it away , but misses. Chigu wants strike and tries to steal a bye , Akmal under-arms the ball to the bowler , who then under-arms an accurate throw onto the stumps. So three legal deliveries will take Pakistan home. Panyangara run out ( U Akmal/Riaz ) 10 ( 28 ) Riaz to Panyangara , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Is Panyangara short of his crease ? Third umpire has been called. He 's OUT ! 49.2 Riaz to Chigumbura , 3 runs , that 's gone straight up in the air and Jamshed drops it. Full and on the leg stump , Chigumbura mistimes the slog , deep mid-wicket runs forward , has it covered , gets both hands to it but spills it. Misbah is absolutely livid with Jamshed 49.1 Riaz to Chigumbura , no run , a wild swing across the line , the length was short and the shot was on , but he 's not made contact again Irfan ends 10-2-30-4. Six balls to go and Zimbabwe need 24 runs . 48.6 Irfan to Chigumbura , 1 run , clears his front leg and drills this full ball hard and along the ground to long-on. Great over from Irfan 48.5 Irfan to Chigumbura , 2 runs , that 's in the air but it does n't have the distance. Slower ball outside off stump , Chigumbura slogs but gets it on the bottom of the bat , the ball lands safely at deep mid-wicket. Looks like the umpire missed Irfan overstepping the line 27 runs to get off 8 balls now . 48.4 Irfan to Panyangara , 1 run , full and just outside off stump , mistimed drive to mid-off 48.3 Irfan to Panyangara , no run , and again ! Short and outside off stump , Panyangara backs away and slashes , only to connect with thin air. This time Akmal runs up to the stumps to keep the batsman calm 48.2 Irfan to Panyangara , no run , is n't that too high ? Panyangara hops and tries to fend , the ball bounces over his head , Chigu tries to steal a bye but Akmal is very alert behind the stumps 48.1 Irfan to Panyangara , no run , upper cut is a good option with Irfan rising those ones up steeply , Panyangara does n't make contact though. Precious dot ball for Pakistan Mohammad Irfan [ 9.0-2-26-4 ] is back into the attack Surely , even Panyangara has to go for it now. It 's going be Irfan with the ball . 47.6 Riaz to Chigumbura , no run , goes for the upper-cut but misses it. This is a fine over in the context of the game from Riaz. Short and just outside off stump , Chigumbura backs away and tries the cut , but does n't make contact 47.5 Riaz to Chigumbura , FOUR , he 's hit that hard and it 's in the gap as well. Short of a length delivery just outside off stump , Chigumbura goes leg-side and smashes it off the back foot between mid-off and extra-cover. Zimbabwe need more of these 47.4 Riaz to Chigumbura , no run , clever stuff from Riaz. Slower ball bumper , Chigumbura goes early into the pull and misses it completely 47.3 Riaz to Chigumbura , no run , clears his front leg and swings hard at this short of length delivery , but gets beaten , Misbah is happy with the dot ball and encourages Riaz 47.2 Riaz to Panyangara , 1 run , short of length delivery on the leg stump , Panyangara advances and slashes hard , gets a thick outside edge that goes on the bounce to third man Mid-off and mid-on are in . 47.1 Riaz to Chigumbura , 1 run , short of length delivery on the leg stump , Chigumbura turns it to square leg. He 's taken a single off the first ball ! This is interesting Wahab Riaz [ 8.0-1-36-3 ] is back into the attack Zimbabwe need 34 off 18 balls ! Is it too late for them ? 46.6 Afridi to Panyangara , no run , it 's maiden over from Boom Boom and what a time to deliver one. Flatter ball outside off stump , Panyangara defends off the back foot 46.5 Afridi to Panyangara , no run , clever bowling from Afridi. This time he tosses this up nicely , Panyangara attempts a forward defence , the ball spins away and beats the bat. Akmal takes the bails off but Panyangara had his back foot grounded all the time Third umpire pressed into service for a stumping check , but Panyangara seemed to be fine. NOT OUT is the call 46.4 Afridi to Panyangara , no run , flatter and skids through , Panyangara backs away to late-cut the ball but gets beaten 46.3 Afridi to Panyangara , no run , googly on the off stump , defended off the front foot Chigu has a a few words with Panyangara 46.2 Afridi to Panyangara , no run , this time Lala goes quicker and beats Panyangara 's drive 46.1 Afridi to Panyangara , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Panyangara leans forward to defend , but the ball spins away and beats the bat These two are doing it nicely. Panyangara is giving good support to Chigumbura and he 's not attempting any fancy shots . 45.6 Sohail Khan to Panyangara , 1 run , not quite short enough to trouble Panyangara , the batsman easily guides it to third man 45.5 Sohail Khan to Chigumbura , leg byes , 1 run , gets across the stumps and tries to tickle it fine , but the length ball hits the pad and rolls into the on-side 45.4 Sohail Khan to Chigumbura , FOUR , overpitched and punished. Sohail Khan misses the yorker , it goes full and in the slot , Chigumbura drives it straight back over the bowler 's and beats both long-off and long-on 45.3 Sohail Khan to Panyangara , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , easily guided away to third man 45.2 Sohail Khan to Panyangara , no run , inswinging short of length delivery on the leg stump , Panyangara fends it to mid-on 45.1 Sohail Khan to Panyangara , no run , fullish delivery outside off stump , Panyangara drives it to mid-off Chigu is battling hard despite his injury. Can he get Zimbabwe over the line ? 41 needed off 30 balls. It 's about a couple of good overs for the batting side , while Pakistan need one more wicket to put pressure back on Zimbabwe . 44.6 Afridi to Chigumbura , no run , flatter ball outside off stump , Chigumbura punches it to cover 44.5 Afridi to Chigumbura , FOUR , flighted delivery on the stumps , Chigumbura plays a slog-sweep right across the line , does n't find the middle of the bat but it runs away to the deep mid-wicket boundary 44.4 Afridi to Chigumbura , no run , flighted delivery on the off stump , Chigumbura defends 44.3 Afridi to Chigumbura , no run , short and outside off stump , Chigumbura mistimes the slap to cover 44.2 Afridi to Panyangara , 1 run , flatter ball down the leg-side , Panyangara turns it to short fine leg , a risky run considering that Chigu is not 100 % fit , but he makes his ground 44.1 Afridi to Chigumbura , 1 run , short and spinning away , cut to sweeper cover 43.6 Sohail Khan to Chigumbura , 1 run , short of length delivery from Khan , Chigumbura backs away and defends , the ball hits the pad and just stays on the pitch , Panyangara calls for a run , Khan rushes forward and under-arms an accurate throw at the striker 's end but Panyangara just managed to make his ground Third umpire has been called for a run-out check. Panyangara is the man in question. It 's a direct-hit. Oh looks like he 's just made it. NOT OUT 43.5 Sohail Khan to Panyangara , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Panyangara drives it down to sweeper cover 43.4 Sohail Khan to Panyangara , no run , good bouncer , Panyangara drops his wrists and lets it go. Sohail Khan appeals for caught behind , but the umpire is n't interested 43.3 Sohail Khan to Panyangara , no run , yorker length outside off stump , Panyangara looks to drive , but mistimes it towards point Chigu has a chat with Panyangara 43.2 Sohail Khan to Chigumbura , 1 run , hurries Chigumbura with a length ball , the batsman taps it to cover-point and gets off strike 43.1 Sohail Khan to Chigumbura , no run , slower ball low full toss , punched to mid-off 42.6 Afridi to Panyangara , no run , googly outside off stump , left alone 42.5 Afridi to Chigumbura , 1 run , fast and full outside off stump , Chigumbura drives it to sweeper cover 42.4 Afridi to Chigumbura , 2 runs , tossed up outside off stump , Chigumbura drives it to deep extra-cover 42.3 Afridi to Panyangara , 1 run , quick single , just taps the flatter ball softly to backward point and takes off 42.2 Afridi to Chigumbura , 1 run , goes leg-side a bit and drives with the turn to sweeper cover 42.1 Afridi to Chigumbura , no run , flatter ball outside off stump , Chigumbura backs away and guides it to backward point 41.6 Sohail Khan to Chigumbura , 1 run , on a length and outside off stump , Chigumbura steers it to third man and keeps strike 41.5 Sohail Khan to Panyangara , 1 run , neatly guides this good length delivery to third man 41.4 Sohail Khan to Chigumbura , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off stump , Chigumbura taps it to the left of cover and sets off 41.3 Sohail Khan to Chigumbura , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Chigumbura looks go on-side , but gets it outside half of the bat and it rolls to point 41.2 Sohail Khan to Chigumbura , FOUR , edgeddddd and just over the man at slip. Short and outside off stump , Chigumbura goes half-heartedly at a pull , the ball takes the bottom of the bat , Haris Sohail jumps high at first slip but it evades him 41.1 Sohail Khan to Chigumbura , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Chigumbura slogs hard and misses Sohail Khan [ 7.0-0-29-0 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Afridi to Panyangara , no run , shortish outside off stump , Panyangara mistimes the cut to point 40.5 Afridi to Panyangara , no run , full and outside off stump , Panyangara drives , Misbah dives to his right at short cover and makes a fine save There is a man at slip now 40.4 Afridi to Panyangara , no run , sharp turn and the outside edge is found , but there is no one at slip and it rolls to short third man 40.3 Afridi to Chigumbura , 1 run , low full toss outside off stump , Chigumbura mistimes the drive to long-off 40.2 Afridi to Chigumbura , 2 runs , slowish and outside off stump , Chigumbura cuts it straight to backward point , where Jamshed lets it go right through him 40.1 Afridi to Chigumbura , no run , Lala fires it in on the stumps , punched back to the bowler Shahid Afridi [ 6.0-0-39-0 ] is back into the attack 39.6 Riaz to Panyangara , no run , short of length delivery down the leg-side , Panyangara turns it to backward square leg 39.5 Riaz to Panyangara , 2 runs , nice drive off the front foot , full and outside off stump , driven well , the fielder at cover dives to his left but could n't stop the ball. There was three runs to be had , but Chigu could n't run swiftly 39.5 Riaz to Panyangara , wide , sprays this down the leg-side , easy call for the umpire Tinashe Panyangara , right handed bat , comes to the crease 39.4 Riaz to Mupariwa , out Caught by U Akmal ! ! " It is another one , it is another one. Wahab Riaz is red hot , " says Rameez Raja on air. Excellent stuff from Riaz. Full and just outside off stump , Mupariwa plays a loose drive and outside edges it to the keeper. Once again , the batting powerplay has consumed batsmen. Mupariwa c U Akmal b Riaz 0 ( 2 ) Riaz to Mupariwa , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 39.3 Riaz to Mupariwa , no run , full and outside off stump , left alone Tawanda Mupariwa , right handed bat , comes to the crease 39.2 Riaz to C Ervine , out Caught by U Akmal ! ! Now this is a fantastic catch. It was travelling fast , but Akmal quickly got into the right position to snaffle it. Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Ervine looks to cut , but gets a thick edge , the keeper moves to his left and catches it above his left shoulder. Is this the end of the story for Zimbabwe ? C Ervine c U Akmal b Riaz 14 ( 29 ) [ 4s-1 ] Riaz to C Ervine , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 39.1 Riaz to C Ervine , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Ervine flat-bats the pull to mid-on Wahab Riaz [ 7.0-1-33-1 ] is back into the attack Irfan has one more to go. Does Misbah bowl him out or save him for later ? 38.6 Irfan to C Ervine , 1 run , slower ball coming back into the left-hander , Ervine fends with one hand , the ball rolls to backward square leg , Akmal swiftly runs to his right and prevents the second 38.5 Irfan to C Ervine , no run , full and on the leg stump , Ervine flicks it to mid-wicket 38.4 Irfan to C Ervine , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Ervine dabs it late towards slip 38.3 Irfan to C Ervine , no run , oh the off-spinning slower ball hits Ervine on the stomach. Gee ! Even his slower ball tend to bounce steeply. Ervine was trying adjust and fend , but the ball missed the bat and hit him on the stomach. Ervine feels the pain , but he 's fine to continue 38.2 Irfan to C Ervine , no run , allows the ball to come and defends with soft hands 38.1 Irfan to C Ervine , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Ervine defends off the back foot towards backward point 37.6 Rahat Ali to Chigumbura , no run , the bowler appeals but the keeper is n't keen. Full and just outside off stump , Chigumbura looks to defend off the front foot , he backs away slightly and misses the ball 37.5 Rahat Ali to C Ervine , 1 run , plays this length ball late and runs this length ball to third man 37.4 Rahat Ali to C Ervine , no run , full and outside off stump , Ervine drives it to mid-off 37.3 Rahat Ali to C Ervine , no run , length and on the off stump , defended from the crease 37.2 Rahat Ali to C Ervine , no run , full and outside off stump , Ervine goes for a big drive but misses it completely 37.1 Rahat Ali to C Ervine , no run , that is an optimistc shout for a catch. Short of a length delivery on the stumps , Ervine tries to defend , but the ball nips back in and takes the thigh pad , before flying to slip 36.6 Irfan to Chigumbura , no run , yorker outside off stump , Chigumbura digs it out. Chigu hops and feels the pain. Remember , he has tore his quadricep muscle while fielding 36.5 Irfan to Chigumbura , no run , steeply rising short of length delivery outside off stump , Chigumbura fends with one hand and it rolls to the slip cordon Elton Chigumbura , right handed bat , comes to the crease 36.4 Irfan to Solomon Mire , out Caught by U Akmal ! ! Edged and easily held by the keeper , he 's not dropping that. Wicket number four for Irfan. Because of the steep bounce Irfan gets , the batsman was confused and caught in the crease. Irfan bowled a nice off-spinning slower ball across the right-hander , Mire had to play at it as it was relatively close to the off stump and the ball took a thick edge en route to the keeper. Pakistan are on top right now , but Chigu can bat and hit the ball long and hard. Solomon Mire c U Akmal b Irfan 8 ( 14 ) Irfan to Solomon Mire , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 36.3 Irfan to Solomon Mire , no run , off-cutting slower ball , full and outside off stump , Mire plays inside the line and gets beaten 36.3 Irfan to Solomon Mire , wide , thankfully for Mire , it bounced just over to miss his head. He was in no position to play that bouncer. In fact , the bowler has overstepped but the umpire missed it 36.2 Irfan to C Ervine , 1 run , this time he succeeds in guiding it to third man 36.1 Irfan to C Ervine , no run , straightaway pings Ervine on the glove with extra bounce. Good length delivery outside off stump , Ervine tries to steer it to third man but gets hit on the glove Mohammad Irfan [ 7.0-2-23-3 ] is back into the attack This is going to be interesting. Irfan is into the attack and this is the real test for Zimbabwe ! 35.6 Rahat Ali to C Ervine , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Ervine drives it past the diving backward point fielder to deep point. He was actually trying to go towards cover , but it went off the outside half of the bat 35.5 Rahat Ali to Solomon Mire , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Mire steers it down to third man 35.4 Rahat Ali to Solomon Mire , 2 runs , good length delivery on the leg stump , Mire slogs but gets it on the inside half of the bat , the ball flies over mid-wicket for a couple of runs Chigu is seen padded up in the dressing room . 35.3 Rahat Ali to Solomon Mire , no run , full and outside off stump , Mire drives it to cover 35.2 Rahat Ali to Solomon Mire , no run , fullish and outside off stump , Mire punches it towards mid-off Two slips waiting for the edge . 35.1 Rahat Ali to Solomon Mire , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Mire defends off the back foot Batting powerplay has been enforced . 34.6 Afridi to Solomon Mire , 3 runs , full and down the leg-side , Mire glances it to fine leg , Irfan is able to stop it well before the boundary this time 34.5 Afridi to C Ervine , 1 run , short and on the leg stump , pulled to long leg 34.4 Afridi to C Ervine , no run , flighted delivery outside off stump , Ervine pushes it to cover 34.3 Afridi to C Ervine , FOUR , edged but there is no one at slip. Flighted delivery outside off stump , Ervine drives and gets a thick edge , Irfan gives chase from short third man , he stops the ball but he was too close to the rope and could n't control himself by stepping over with the ball in his hand. Why did n't he flick it back ? 34.2 Afridi to Solomon Mire , 1 run , no feet movement from Mire and he 's almost bowled. Quicker ball from Lala , Mire was late in bringing his bat down , an inside edge saves him 34.1 Afridi to Solomon Mire , no run , flatter ball , defended off the back foot 33.6 Rahat Ali to Solomon Mire , 1 run , full and down the leg-side , Mire glances it down to fine leg 33.5 Rahat Ali to Solomon Mire , no run , fullish and just outside off stump , defended off the front foot 33.4 Rahat Ali to Solomon Mire , no run , on a length and close to off , defended 33.3 Rahat Ali to Solomon Mire , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Mire shoulders arms Solomon Mire , right handed bat , comes to the crease 33.2 Rahat Ali to Sean Williams , out Caught by Ahmed Shehzad ! ! In the airrrr and straight to backward point. This is just the start Pakistan wanted after the drinks break. Short and outside off stump , it was there to be hit , Williams cuts well but does n't bother to keep it down. Shehzad takes it with both hands above his head. He was suggesting to his team-mates that initially he did n't see the ball coming at him. Williams walks away in disappointment. He 's played a good hand for Zimbabwe. Sean Williams c Ahmed Shehzad b Rahat Ali 33 ( 32 ) [ 4s-2 ] Rahat Ali to Sean Williams , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 33.1 Rahat Ali to Sean Williams , no run , fullish and outside off stump , tentatively defended off the front foot Rahat Ali [ 7.0-0-31-0 ] is back into the attack Once Masakadza threw his wicket away while facing up to Mohammad Irfan , Taylor showed his class by collecting a few boundaries off Shahid Afridi 's bowling. Taylor chipping Afridi straight down the ground for a four in the 23rd over of the game , indicates that he is a smart cricketer , as in the past , many batsmen have paid the price for playing across the line against Afridi 's quickish leg breaks. Unfortunately , Taylor was caught down the leg side off Riaz 's bowling. Sean Williams too looked in good touch. Williams ' game is built on the old maxim of playing each ball on its merit. However , Ervine got a reprieve , as Umar Akmal dropped a catch off Afridi 's bowling. Zimbabwe certainly need Williams to get a big score . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the last 17 overs : For a brief period , Hamilton Masakadza and Brendan Taylor played with equanimity to construct a fine partnership for Zimbabwe. Masakadza looked in good touch , especially when he played straight down the ground. On the other hand , Taylor twinned orthodox shots with improvisation. In the 20th over of the innings , Taylor gave a glimpse of his ability to play shots in a 360-degree arc. He went down on one knee to ramp a short delivery from Wahab Riaz over the wicket-keeper for a boundary. The key to executing the shot was that Taylor kept his eyes on the ball and the great extension of his hands helped him to guide it over the wicket-keeper . Drinks are on the field now 32.6 Afridi to Sean Williams , 3 runs , short and outside off stump , Williams cuts in front of square on the off-side , the ball slows down in the deep and they take three 32.5 Afridi to Sean Williams , 2 runs , Williams goes for a booming inside-out drive , gets a thick edge that rolls past backward point , Williams quickly returns back for the second. This is excellent running between the wickets 32.4 Afridi to Sean Williams , no run , full and on the stumps , driven back to the bowler 32.3 Afridi to C Ervine , 1 run , tossed up , worked away to short mid-wicket 32.2 Afridi to C Ervine , no run , turned to square leg 32.1 Afridi to C Ervine , no run , has Akmal dropped Ervine ? Oh yes ! He has ! What is it with the Akmal brothers behind the stumps ? Nothing but a slider outside off stump , Ervine plays for the turn and feels for the ball away from the body , gets a thin edge , Akmal grabs at it and it pops out Shahid Afridi [ 4.0-0-24-0 ] is back into the attack 31.6 Riaz to Sean Williams , 4 runs , cracking shot ! Oh the outfield is very slow and it stops in the deep. Anyway , they 've run four. Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Williams drives nicely off the back foot , it goes through cover-point , backward point gives chase but the big boundary enables the batsmen to complete four 31.5 Riaz to C Ervine , 1 run , these two are very busy at the crease. Fullish and just outside off stump , Ervine softly taps this towards square leg for a run 31.4 Riaz to Sean Williams , 1 run , punched straight to backward point , where Shehzad fumbles to allow the run 31.3 Riaz to C Ervine , 1 run , full and outside off stump , blocked to the left of backward point 31.2 Riaz to Sean Williams , 1 run , short and on the leg stump , Williams swivels and helps it down to long leg Zimbabwe need exactly 100 runs now. Can they pull this off ? 31.1 Riaz to C Ervine , 1 run , soft hands on this attempted dab and it rolls to third man 30.6 Rahat Ali to C Ervine , 1 run , defends this good length delivery with an angled bat and runs this down to third man 30.5 Rahat Ali to Sean Williams , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Williams drives it to mid-off and takes a sharp run 30.4 Rahat Ali to Sean Williams , no run , full and on the stumps , driven very straight , Ali sticks his left boot out in his followthrough and kicks the ball up before catching it with his hands 30.3 Rahat Ali to Sean Williams , no run , bit of extra bounce on this length ball , Williams handles it with soft hands off the back foot 30.2 Rahat Ali to Sean Williams , 2 runs , backs away and slices this full ball past backward point , the throw comes in from third man , but some aggressive running between the wickets gives them the extra run Free-hit coming up 30.2 Rahat Ali to Sean Williams , no ball , 2 runs , Ali oversteps as he delivers this short of length delivery , Williams flicks it through mid-wicket 30.1 Rahat Ali to Sean Williams , no run , stands tall and punches the short of length delivery to cover 29.6 Riaz to C Ervine , no run , nice and straight from Riaz , Ervine turns it to square leg 29.5 Riaz to C Ervine , no run , hangs on the back foot and turns it to mid-wicket 29.4 Riaz to C Ervine , no run , back of a length just outside off stump , Ervine defends it to point Craig Ervine , left handed bat , comes to the crease 29.3 Riaz to Brendan Taylor , out Caught by U Akmal ! ! There is a sound as the ball passes the bat and the umpire raises his finger. Taylor does not want to review ! Big wicket for Pakistan and Riaz. Short of a length delivery down the leg-side , Taylor tries to glance it fine , but gets a faint edge , which is easily held by the keeper. Pakistan have got the wicket they wanted. Can they work on this opening and put pressure back on Zimbabwe ? Brendan Taylor c U Akmal b Riaz 50 ( 72 ) [ 4s-6 ] Riaz to Brendan Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 29.2 Riaz to Brendan Taylor , no run , a touch fuller in length , Taylor defends off the front foot 29.1 Riaz to Brendan Taylor , no run , short of length just outside off stump , defended off the back foot Wahab Riaz [ 5.0-0-24-0 ] is back into the attack 28.6 Rahat Ali to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , 32nd ODI fifty for Taylor. Short of a length delivery on the off stump , Taylor walks across and turns it to square leg , the fielder has a shy at the striker 's end , but misses. Sean Williams put in the dive to make his ground 28.5 Rahat Ali to Sean Williams , 1 run , sensible batting ! Just pushes this length ball into the vacant cover-point region and sets off 28.4 Rahat Ali to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , gets on top of the bounce and guides the short of length delivery to third man 28.3 Rahat Ali to Brendan Taylor , no run , Taylor looks to defend off the front foot , but the ball takes the inside edge and rolls into the on-side 28.2 Rahat Ali to Brendan Taylor , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , left alone 28.1 Rahat Ali to Brendan Taylor , no run , full and closer to the off stump , Taylor covers the stumps and lets it go 28.1 Rahat Ali to Brendan Taylor , wide , sprays this way outside off stump , bonus run for Zimbabwe Rahat Ali [ 5.0-0-20-0 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Sohail Khan to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , tap-and-run single , Taylor defends this length ball to cover-point and takes off. Fifty of the partnership comes up off just 40 balls 27.5 Sohail Khan to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , inside edge but it escapes past the leg pole. This good length delivery nips back in slightly and surprises Taylor , who was on the front foot to defend , the ball takes the edge and flies past the stumps for four 27.4 Sohail Khan to Sean Williams , 1 run , back of a length outside off stump , Williams guides it to deep backward point 27.3 Sohail Khan to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , good length delivery on the off stump , Taylor softly taps it to mid-on for a sharp run 27.2 Sohail Khan to Brendan Taylor , no run , leg-cutting slower ball on the stumps , Taylor waits and defends 27.1 Sohail Khan to Sean Williams , 1 run , short and down the leg-side , Williams pulls it along the ground to deep backward square leg 26.6 Afridi to Brendan Taylor , 2 runs , down the leg-side , Taylor bottom edges the sweep to fine leg 26.5 Afridi to Brendan Taylor , 2 runs , run , full and on the leg stump , Taylor flicks it uppishly to deep mid-wicket 26.4 Afridi to Sean Williams , 1 run , the length is on the shorter side , pulled to deep mid-wicket 26.3 Afridi to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , uppish but safe. Taylor looked to drive off the front foot but it went off the inside half of the bat and just wide of the man at mid-wicket 26.2 Afridi to Sean Williams , byes , 3 runs , oh how did that miss the stumps ? Flighted just outside off stump , Williams goes for the sweep but gets a bottom edge , the ball just bounces over the off stump and goes to fine leg , where Riaz tidies up. Looks like the umpire has n't spotted the edge , he signals byes 26.1 Afridi to Sean Williams , no run , tossed up from Lala , Williams flicks it to mid-wicket 25.6 Sohail Khan to Brendan Taylor , no run , back of a length delivery outside off stump , Taylor defends off the back foot 25.5 Sohail Khan to Sean Williams , 1 run , short and width on offer , Williams cuts it along the ground to the man at sweeper 25.4 Sohail Khan to Sean Williams , no run , length and just outside off stump , defended off the front foot Bit of eye contact between Shehzad and Williams . 25.3 Sohail Khan to Sean Williams , no run , short of length delivery , defended to point 25.2 Sohail Khan to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , back of a length outside off stump , Taylor looks to defend , the bottom hand comes off , it goes uppishly towards mid-on , Irfan was a touch slow to react and Taylor races to the bowler 's end 25.1 Sohail Khan to Brendan Taylor , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Taylor turns it to square leg Sohail Khan [ 5.0-0-19-0 ] is back into the attack 24.6 Afridi to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , Afridi drifts one onto Taylor 's pads , worked away behind square on the on-side for a single 24.5 Afridi to Sean Williams , 1 run , tossed up and just outside off , eased down towards long-on for a single 24.4 Afridi to Sean Williams , no run , flatter and wider from Afridi , loopy delivery from Afridi , Williams looks to cut and misses , Akmal ca n't gather it cleanly 24.3 Afridi to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , this one is given more air , punched down towards long-on for a single 24.2 Afridi to Brendan Taylor , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , driven back towards the bowler 24.1 Afridi to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , beautifully played ! Taylor is toying with the birthday boy , flighted and just outside off , Taylor gets forward and goes inside out over extra cover , one bounce and over the ropes 23.6 Irfan to Sean Williams , no run , full and angling back into Williams , defended towards mid-on with a straight bat 23.5 Irfan to Sean Williams , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Williams shuffles across and defends it towards mid-on 23.4 Irfan to Sean Williams , FOUR , this is a superb counter-punch from these two , this was pitched up and held its line outside off , Williams gets forward and cracks it square on the off-side , beats cover and races away to the fence 23.4 Irfan to Sean Williams , 5 wides , that 's bonus runs for Zimbabwe , they will not complain one bit , another bumper from Irfan , goes miles over Williams as well as the keeper , five wides is the end result 23.3 Irfan to Sean Williams , 2 runs , as expected , Irfan digs one short , Williams was looking to pull , is late on the shot and gloves it past the keeper. Rahat gets across and prevents the boundary One slip has been moved across to deep short-leg 23.2 Irfan to Sean Williams , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler 23.1 Irfan to Sean Williams , FOUR , this is excellent cricket from Zimbabwe , short and just outside off , does n't get the bounce to hassle Williams , he swivels across , rolls his wrists and pulls it past mid-wicket , the ball teases the fielder all the way before hitting the ropes 22.6 Afridi to Brendan Taylor , no run , slower and on off , Taylor lunges forward and blocks it towards the on-side 22.5 Afridi to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , this is even better ! This was tossed up and just outside off , Taylor leans forward , gets to the pitch of the ball and chips it back over the bowler 's head , almost went all the way , just one bounce and over the ropes 22.4 Afridi to Brendan Taylor , no run , pushed through and just outside off , defended towards the off-side 22.3 Afridi to Brendan Taylor , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , Taylor lunges forward and gets an inside edge towards the on-side 22.2 Afridi to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , that 's an excellent shot , this was tossed up and just outside off , Taylor gets forward , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and goes over extra cover for a boundary 22.1 Afridi to Sean Williams , 1 run , flighted and on off , driven down towards long-on for a single 21.6 Irfan to Brendan Taylor , no run , short and angling across the right-hander , Taylor drops his wrists and lets it go 21.5 Irfan to Brendan Taylor , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven straight to the fielder at mid-off 21.4 Irfan to Brendan Taylor , no run , full and on Taylor 's pads , turned towards square leg 21.3 Irfan to Brendan Taylor , no run , short of a length and just outside off , defended towards the bowler Sean Williams , left handed bat , comes to the crease 21.2 Irfan to H Masakadza , out Caught by Misbah ! ! Misbah has pulled off a skier ! That 's an excellent catch from the Pakistani captain ! This was pitched up and just outside off , Masakadza had a rush of blood , danced down the track and was looking to go over mid-off , gets it right off the bottom of the bat , the ball went miles up in the air and towards mid-off. Misbah back-pedals , keeps his eyes on the ball and takes a well judged catch even as he tumbled backwards. Third wicket for Irfan , the stand has been broken. H Masakadza c Misbah b Irfan 29 ( 54 ) [ 4s-4 ] Irfan to H Masakadza , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 21.1 Irfan to H Masakadza , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Masakadza lunges forward and defends it Mohammad Irfan [ 5.0-1-8-2 ] is back into the attack 20.6 Afridi to H Masakadza , 1 run , this one is a lot slower and wider outside off , eased past cover for a single 20.5 Afridi to H Masakadza , no run , pushed through quicker , Masakadza stays back and punches it towards cover 20.4 Afridi to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , Afridi drops one short and wide outside off , Taylor cuts it square on the off-side for a single 20.3 Afridi to Brendan Taylor , no run , flatter and on Taylor 's pads , he prods forward , the ball was in the air but drops well wide of the bowler 20.2 Afridi to Brendan Taylor , no run , slower and spinning away from off , defended towards cover-point 20.1 Afridi to Brendan Taylor , no run , tossed up and well outside off , driven to the left of the bowler , he dives and stops a single Shahid Afridi , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 19.6 Riaz to H Masakadza , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , left alone 19.5 Riaz to Brendan Taylor , 3 runs , nicely played by Taylor , this was full and wide from Riaz , Taylor leans into the drive and caresses it through extra cover , Misbah gives chase and keeps them down to three runs , bring up this pair 's 50-run partnership , for the 12th time in ODIs 19.4 Riaz to Brendan Taylor , no run , on a good length and just outside off , rears from a length and off the deck , defended back towards the bowler 19.3 Riaz to Brendan Taylor , no run , short of a length and just outside off , pushed off the back foot and towards cover 19.2 Riaz to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , cheeky from Taylor , this was short and just outside off , Taylor waited on it , got down on one knee and ramps it over the keeper , a couple of bounces and over the ropes 19.1 Riaz to Brendan Taylor , no run , back of a length and just outside off , punched towards mid-off 18.6 Rahat Ali to H Masakadza , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , left alone 18.5 Rahat Ali to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , length ball and on Taylor 's pads , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single 18.4 Rahat Ali to H Masakadza , 1 run , short and on Masakadza 's pads , flicked away towards long leg for a single 18.3 Rahat Ali to H Masakadza , no run , on a good length and angling back into Masakadza , he shuffles across and gets an inside edge onto the pads 18.2 Rahat Ali to H Masakadza , FOUR , lovely shot , overpitched and well outside off , Masakadza leans forward , presents the straight bat and drives it past mid-off for a boundary 18.1 Rahat Ali to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Taylor prods forward and gets an inside edge behind square on the on-side , just a single 17.6 Riaz to H Masakadza , no run , the bumper from Riaz , Masakadza swivels across on the pull , is late on the shot and the ball races through to the keeper 17.5 Riaz to H Masakadza , no run , that 's a wild heave from Masakadza , this was full and wide from Riaz , Masakadza was looking to go over cover and missed 17.4 Riaz to Brendan Taylor , 3 runs , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Taylor prods across , closes the face of the bat and shovels it over the umpire , he did n't time it all that well , Yasir gives chase and keeps them down to three runs 17.3 Riaz to Brendan Taylor , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Taylor shuffles across and defends it 17.2 Riaz to Brendan Taylor , no run , back of a length and just outside off , defended towards cover 17.1 Riaz to Brendan Taylor , no run , short and on the leg-stump line , Taylor gets inside the line and lets it go 16.6 Rahat Ali to H Masakadza , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , defended towards the off-side 16.5 Rahat Ali to H Masakadza , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , left alone 16.5 Rahat Ali to H Masakadza , wide , the bumper from Rahat , but it 's too short and too high , Masakadza was initially shaping for the pull , he lets it go in the end. Replays suggest that it was a big no-ball as well , Rahat had overstepped by a long way 16.4 Rahat Ali to H Masakadza , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended towards the off-side 16.3 Rahat Ali to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , short and wide from Rahat , slapped away square on the off-side for a single 16.2 Rahat Ali to Brendan Taylor , no run , on a good length and shaping across the right-hander , left alone 16.1 Rahat Ali to Brendan Taylor , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Taylor prods across and blocks it Irfan has certainly shown that if a pacer bends his back , he will always get some encouragement from a true surface. Interestingly , ever since Kevin Mitchell ( Jnr ) became the curator at the Gabba in the early 1990s , there has been a feeling that it has turned into a bat first wicket. However , in ODIs , the team batting second has won four out of the last five matches at this ground , while one game was abandoned. It indicates that for ODIs , the wicket will hold true over the duration of 100 overs . It was Chibhabha , who looked to take on the challenge of facing up to Irfan and Sohail Khan by essaying a few boundaries , Unfortunately from Zimbabwe 's perspective , Irfan , then produced the breakthrough with a fine delivery that bounced disconcertingly on Chibhabha to take the edge. Irfan was too quick for him as Chibhabha could n't take the bat out of the line in time. To make it even better for Pakistan , Raza too lost his wicket to Irfan. Irfan 's ability to create that left-armer 's angle and angle it back into Raza did the trick on that occasion . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the first 16 overs : While chasing down a rather modest target , Zimbabwe 's openers , Chamu Chibhabha and Sikandar Raza started cautiously. Mohammad Irfan , the towering giant , troubled Raza by extracting bounce. He got one to climb awkwardly to hit Raza 's chest and followed it up with an inswinging yorker. However , Raza was able to survive . Drinks are on the field now 15.6 Riaz to H Masakadza , 2 runs , too straight from Riaz , Masakadza stays deep in his crease and wrists it past mid-wicket , gets back for the second run 15.5 Riaz to H Masakadza , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , left alone 15.4 Riaz to H Masakadza , FOUR , that 's a bad ball from Riaz , short and wide outside off , Masakadza throws his bat at that , gets it over backward point and races away to the fence 15.3 Riaz to H Masakadza , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Masakadza prods across and defends it towards the off-side 15.2 Riaz to H Masakadza , no run , Riaz slips in the slower ball , on a good length and shaping away , left alone 15.1 Riaz to H Masakadza , no run , that 's nicely bowled by Riaz , this was full and nipped back in late , Masakadza plays inside the line and lets it go 14.6 Rahat Ali to Brendan Taylor , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , defended with a straight bat towards mid-on 14.5 Rahat Ali to H Masakadza , 1 run , almost chopped on ! On a good length and just outside off , Masakadza was looking to force it away off the back foot , gets an inside edge onto the pads. Brendan Taylor calls for a quick single and completes it with ease 14.4 Rahat Ali to H Masakadza , no run , tad fuller and on off , Masakadza prods across and defends it 14.3 Rahat Ali to H Masakadza , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , left alone 14.2 Rahat Ali to H Masakadza , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , Masakadza prods at that and is beaten. The slips are excited , but nothing from the bowler and the keeper 14.1 Rahat Ali to H Masakadza , no run , short of a length and on the stumps , Masakadza goes back and turns it to the right of the bowler 13.6 Riaz to Brendan Taylor , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Taylor stays behind the line and defends it 13.5 Riaz to H Masakadza , 1 run , good cricket from Masakadza , he was back to a short of a length ball and pushed it in front of mid-on. The fielder was on his heels and that allows Masakadza to get across for a single 13.4 Riaz to H Masakadza , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , left alone. Akmal collects it over his head 13.3 Riaz to H Masakadza , no run , much better from Riaz , tad fuller and shaping away from outside off , Masakadza was prodding forward , did n't go chasing , the ball zips past the outside edge 13.2 Riaz to H Masakadza , no run , Riaz shortens his length and gets this one to shape away from outside off , left alone 13.1 Riaz to H Masakadza , no run , back of a length and in that channel outside off , Masakadza plays inside the line and lets it go 12.6 Rahat Ali to Brendan Taylor , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , left alone 12.5 Rahat Ali to Brendan Taylor , no run , that 's a jaffa from Rahat , beat Taylor for pace and some inward movement , bursts through the gap between bat and pad , did n't miss the stumps by much , this was pitched up in that corridor outside off and drew Taylor forward , there was just a tiny gap between bat and pad , the ball found its way through 12.4 Rahat Ali to Brendan Taylor , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , left alone 12.3 Rahat Ali to Brendan Taylor , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , left alone 12.2 Rahat Ali to H Masakadza , 1 run , full and nipping back into Masakadza , tucked past square leg for a single 12.1 Rahat Ali to H Masakadza , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping back in from outside off , Masakadza covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 11.6 Riaz to Brendan Taylor , no run , short of a length and slanting across the right-hander , Taylor slashes and is beaten by the extra bounce 11.5 Riaz to Brendan Taylor , 2 runs , that 's much better from Taylor , this was short and wide from Riaz , Taylor stays back and punches it past extra cover , Misbah gives the chase and keeps them down to a couple of runs 11.4 Riaz to Brendan Taylor , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Taylor shuffles across and defends it 11.3 Riaz to Brendan Taylor , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , Taylor frailed at that and missed by a long way , Riaz was up instantaneously , so did the slip cordon , but Akmal said NO straightaway Loud shout for a caught behind , no review 11.2 Riaz to Brendan Taylor , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Taylor prods forward tentatively and defends it towards short cover 11.2 Riaz to Brendan Taylor , wide , Riaz drifts one well down the leg-side , called as a wide 11.1 Riaz to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , nicely played by Taylor , this was full and just outside off , he was pushing forward and ends up chipping it over mid-on , might have had his heart in the mouth for a moment , but the ball comfortably sailed over the fielder and into the fence Wahab Riaz , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 10.6 Rahat Ali to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Taylor plays with an open face and guides it past backward point for a single 10.5 Rahat Ali to H Masakadza , 1 run , too short from Rahat , nudged away past mid-wicket for a single 10.4 Rahat Ali to H Masakadza , FOUR , way too short from Rahat , Masakadza is quick to rock back and pulls it in front of square on the on-side , the ball rolls away to the fence Replays in : Snicko shows a little spike as the ball went past the gloves , did it brush it then ? Taylor might have been lucky 10.3 Rahat Ali to H Masakadza , no run , back of a length and just outside off , defended towards point 10.2 Rahat Ali to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , punched away square on the off-side for a single 10.1 Rahat Ali to Brendan Taylor , no run , this was short and angling down leg-side , Taylor was looking to nudge it towards the on-side and missed , the ball might have just brushed the shirt on its way to the keeper. The fielders converge and decide against a review Loud shout for a caught behind. Pakistan decide against a review 10.1 Rahat Ali to Brendan Taylor , wide , short and well down leg-side , Rahat has started his spell with two wides 10.1 Rahat Ali to Brendan Taylor , wide , Rahat 's first ball in the World Cup is a huge wide down leg-side , Akmal does well to get across and prevent more runs Rahat Ali , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 9.6 Sohail Khan to H Masakadza , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Masakadza closes the face of the bat and defends , the ball dribbles away towards mid-on 9.5 Sohail Khan to H Masakadza , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Masakadza drops it in front of point , wants a single but is sent back 9.4 Sohail Khan to H Masakadza , FOUR , that should release some pressure off Masakadza , this was full and on off , Masakadza leans forward , presents the full face of the bat and lifts it back over the bowler 's head , the ball races away to the fence 9.3 Sohail Khan to H Masakadza , no run , tad fuller and in that channel outside off , Masakadza gets a big stride forward and blocks 9.2 Sohail Khan to H Masakadza , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Masakadza prods across and defends it with an angled bat towards cover-point 9.1 Sohail Khan to H Masakadza , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven towards cover 8.6 Irfan to Brendan Taylor , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Taylor rides with the bounce and defends it towards point 8.5 Irfan to Brendan Taylor , no run , Irfan shortens his length and angles one across Taylor , left alone 8.4 Irfan to Brendan Taylor , no run , length ball and on Taylor 's pads , turned towards square leg 8.3 Irfan to Brendan Taylor , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Taylor presses half-forward and defends it with soft hands 8.2 Irfan to Brendan Taylor , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Taylor presses well forward and blocks it 8.1 Irfan to H Masakadza , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Masakadza was hanging on the back foot , pushes it in front of cover-point and calls for a quick single 7.6 Sohail Khan to Brendan Taylor , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , left alone 7.5 Sohail Khan to H Masakadza , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on Masakadza 's pads , clipped away behind square on the on-side for a single 7.4 Sohail Khan to H Masakadza , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Masakadza was looking to whip it past mid-on , the bat turned slightly and he ends up pushing it towards mid-on 7.3 Sohail Khan to H Masakadza , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Masakadza prods forward and defends it towards the off-side 7.2 Sohail Khan to H Masakadza , no run , Sohail shortens his length on off , defended with a straight bat and back towards the bowler 7.1 Sohail Khan to H Masakadza , no run , tad fuller and on the stumps , Masakadza presses forward and defends it towards mid-on 6.6 Irfan to Brendan Taylor , no run , on a good length and on Taylor 's pads , he presses across and defends it towards square leg 6.5 Irfan to Brendan Taylor , no run , short of a length and on the stumps , Taylor prods forward and the ball hits his gloves , rolls away towards the on-side back over the wicket Brendan Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 6.4 Irfan to S Raza , out Caught by Sohail ! ! This is wonderful bowling from Irfan , shortens his length and angles it back into Raza , he was backing away once again , plays with an open face and offers catching practice to Haris Sohail at 2nd slip. Irfan is on fire , Pakistan can sense something special here. S Raza c Sohail b Irfan 8 ( 15 ) Irfan to S Raza , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 6.3 Irfan to S Raza , 2 runs , short and wide from Irfan , Raza slashes it square and over backward point , comes back for the second run 6.2 Irfan to S Raza , 2 runs , poor fielding from Rahat at mid-on , this was full and angling into Raza , he makes room and pushes it to the left of mid-on. Rahat gets across and puts in a lazy dive , lets the ball go right through , he has to get up and chase it down , two is the end result Irfan changes to round the wicket 6.1 Irfan to S Raza , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Raza backs away slightly and defends it towards cover-point 6.1 Irfan to S Raza , wide , Irfan is testing Raza 's technique against the short ball , this one is a bit too high as it goes over Raza 's attempted pull , called as a wide 5.6 Sohail Khan to H Masakadza , no run , Sohail keeps it full and just outside off , driven straight to mid-off 5.5 Sohail Khan to H Masakadza , no run , full and on off , Masakadza presents the full face of the bat and drives it back at the stumps at the other end 5.4 Sohail Khan to H Masakadza , no run , on a good length and well outside off , Masakadza gets a good stride forward and blocks it towards cover 5.3 Sohail Khan to H Masakadza , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , driven towards mid-on 5.2 Sohail Khan to H Masakadza , 2 runs , risky but well played in the end , this was full and targetting Masakadza 's pads , he was shuffling across on the flick , that meant he got his pads in line and had to bring the bat around it , gets it past mid-on for a brace 5.1 Sohail Khan to H Masakadza , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Masakadza watches it all along and defends it towards cover-point 4.6 Irfan to S Raza , no run , another short bouncer from Irfan , but equally well played by Raza , he drops his wrists and sways away from the line , end of a successful over from Irfan 4.5 Irfan to H Masakadza , 1 run , wide full-toss from Irfan , driven past extra cover for a single Hamilton Masakadza , right handed bat , comes to the crease 4.4 Irfan to Chibhabha , out Caught by Sohail ! ! Irfan 's pace and bounce gets too much for Chibhabha ! This was banged in short and just outside off , Chibhabha was looking to sway out of the line , the ball got too big on him , he was late in swaying away from the line , ends up hanging his bat in the air , the ball loops off the bat and it 's a simple catch to Haris Sohail at 2nd slip. Zimbabwe have lost an early wicket. Chibhabha c Sohail b Irfan 9 ( 18 ) [ 4s-2 ] Irfan to Chibhabha , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Chibhabha is OUT 4.3 Irfan to Chibhabha , no run , the bowler and the slip cordon went up straightaway , but Akmal was n't interested one bit , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , Chibhabha was playing from the crease and missed it 4.2 Irfan to Chibhabha , no run , on a good length and angling away from off , Chibhabha was clearly late in coming forward , the ball hits the bat and rolls away towards point 4.1 Irfan to Chibhabha , no run , the bumper from Irfan , Chibhabha watches it all along and ducks underneath 3.6 Sohail Khan to S Raza , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Raza presses forward on the drive , plays it with a loose bottom hand and gets it past mid-on. Riaz gives the chase and keeps them down to two runs 3.5 Sohail Khan to S Raza , no run , tad fuller and shaping away from outside off , Raza gets well forward and drives it towards cover 3.4 Sohail Khan to S Raza , no run , Sohail keeps it full and gets it to nip away late , Raza was caught in two minds , makes a late call to let it go , the ball rolls away off the bottom edge and towards the slip cordon 3.3 Sohail Khan to S Raza , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Raza was backing away slightly , lunges forward , uses the pace of Sohail and guides it behind square on the off-side for a brace 3.2 Sohail Khan to Chibhabha , leg byes , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on Chibhabha 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away behind square on the on-side for a leg-bye 3.1 Sohail Khan to Chibhabha , FOUR , that 's one way of hitting yourself out of trouble , this was full and wide from Sohail , Chibhabha clears his left leg , comes down the track , uses his reach to good effect and lifts it over mid-off , one bounce and over the ropes 2.6 Irfan to S Raza , no run , another bumper from Irfan , Raza has to be quick to duck underneath it , he 's clearly been unsettled by the pace and hostility of Irfan 2.5 Irfan to S Raza , no run , Irfan follows the short ball with an inswinging yorker , gets it right in the blockhole , Raza watches it all along and digs the ball out and onto his pads 2.4 Irfan to S Raza , no run , Raza wears one on his chest , this one was banged in short and shapes back into Raza , he does well to drop his gloves and takes a blow on his chest 2.3 Irfan to S Raza , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Raza gets behind the line and defends it to the left of cover-point 2.2 Irfan to S Raza , no run , tad fuller and a hint of nip back into Raza , he prods across and defends it 2.1 Irfan to S Raza , no run , Irfan shortens his length and gets it to shape away from outside off , nervous prod by Raza , he was n't anywhere near the ball , the feet was rooted to the crease and he misses the ball by a long way 1.6 Sohail Khan to Chibhabha , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Chibhabha presents a straight bat as he blocks it towards mid-on Looks like something went into Chibhabha 's eyes , he backs away at the last moment 1.5 Sohail Khan to Chibhabha , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Chibhabha cuts but ca n't get it past point 1.4 Sohail Khan to Chibhabha , FOUR , nicely done by Chibhabha , Sohail offers a low full-toss , Chibhabha presses forward and punches it back past the bowler. Riaz gives a good chase but ends up dragging the ball along with him and into the ropes 1.3 Sohail Khan to Chibhabha , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Chibhabha prods half-forward and gets an inside edge onto his pads 1.2 Sohail Khan to Chibhabha , no run , Sohail keeps it full and in that corridor outside off , Chibhabha gets a good stride forward , lifts his bat and lets it go 1.1 Sohail Khan to Chibhabha , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from well outside off , left alone , very close to being called as a wide Two slips for Sohail Sohail Khan , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Irfan to Chibhabha , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Chibhabha gets on top of the bounce and chops it away square past point , off the mark with a single 0.5 Irfan to Chibhabha , no run , short of a length and on Chibhabha 's hips , he presses across as he looked to nudge it down towards the on-side , gets a bottom edge and the ball drops besides the pitch 0.4 Irfan to Chibhabha , no run , another bouncer from Irfan , he 's getting steep bounce off the deck , Chibhabha goes for the pull and is beaten by a long way 0.3 Irfan to Chibhabha , no run , Irfan shortens his length and gets it to shape across the right-hander , Chibhabha drops his wrists and sways away from the line 0.2 Irfan to Chibhabha , no run , tad fuller and shaping away further from outside off , Chibhabha is happy to let it go 0.1 Irfan to Chibhabha , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , extra bounce for Irfan , Chibhabha prods half forward and is beaten Chibhabha and S Raza are at the crease. Chibhabha is on strike. Irfan will open the attack Two slips , a gully and a leg gully in place. Misbah is on the offensive. . Welcome back.. Misbah had a lot to say at the team huddle. Can Zimbabwe chase down 235 and cause a huge upset ? Zimbabwe had a few anxious moments in the field as Elton Chigumbura suffered a suspected muscle tear after he tripped and fell while looking to save a boundary. It is bad news for Zimbabwe as they would perhaps need Chigumbura to chip in with a few runs later on in the match. Zimbabwe 's camp would also be slightly concerned with their fielding as they dropped a couple of chances in the end overs. For Pakistan , they need wickets with the new ball to have any chance of coming back into the game . Misbah and Haris Sohail tried to resurrect Pakistan 's fortunes. But after stitching a 50-run partnership , Haris hit it straight to Sean Williams off Sikandar Raza 's bowling and with a forlorn look on his face , took a long walk back to the pavilion. Haris also played out a lot of dot deliveries and that did n't help Pakistan 's cause. Akmal played a few eye-catching shots , but Williams produced a wonderful spell to take the key wickets of both Akmal and Shahid Afridi and check Pakistan 's progress. In fact , it was a cracking delivery bowled by Williams to Afridi as it spun sharply to beat the outside edge and castle Afridi. With wickets falling at the other end , Misbah looked to be the glue of Pakistan 's innings and composed a fine fifty. In the slog overs , Riaz with his pyrotechnics , smashed a flurry of boundaries to help Pakistan to end up with a decent total on the board . Earlier , Pakistan 's opener , Nasir Jamshed continued to struggle for runs as he was dismissed after scoring just one run. Jamshed has amassed just 58 runs in the last eight ODIs he has played. Ahmed Shehzad followed him back to the pavilion as he lost his wicket to Chatara. It was a gem of a delivery that straightened off the deck to take the edge of Shehzad 's bat and Brendan Taylor took an easy catch behind the stumps . Zimbabwe 's bowlers put up an impressive performance to restrict Pakistan to a below par total. Misbah-ul-Haq held the innings together , and Umar Akmal and Wahab Riaz played quickfire knocks to lift Pakistan 's sagging spirits to some extent. It was Tendai Chatara and Tinashe Panyangara , who bowled with great disciplines to leave Pakistan wobbling at 14 for 2 after the completion of 10 overs. On expected lines , both the pacers extracted movement in the air and off the deck at the Gabba to trouble the batsmen. Chatara was duly rewarded for his metronomic control upfront with two wickets. Tawanda Mupariwa too bowled well. Sean Williams , the slow left-arm orthodox , followed it up by taking a couple of crucial wickets to put Zimbabwe in the ascendancy . 49.6 Panyangara to Riaz , FOUR , gee ! What a shot to end the innings. He 's hit that very , very hard. Full and outside off stump , Riaz drills it very hard , Panyangara tries to catch it in his followthrough as it was in the air for a while , but it went very quickly past him , long-off runs to his right and puts in the dive but the ball was too quick for him as well 49.5 Panyangara to Riaz , 2 runs , maiden ODI fifty for Riaz ! Low full toss on the stumps , Riaz slogs it to deep mid-wicket. He raises his bat and acknowledges the applause. This has been a great innings under pressure 49.4 Panyangara to Riaz , FOUR , it 's in the slot and Riaz smashes it to get to his highest ODI score. Full and outside off stump , Riaz does n't try to over hit the ball , just lofts it over extra-cover and the timing was very good 49.3 Panyangara to Riaz , no run , yorker outside off stump , Riaz tries to squeeze it out but misses 49.2 Panyangara to Sohail Khan , 1 run , low full toss on the stumps , Khan swings it away to deep mid-wicket 49.1 Panyangara to Sohail Khan , 2 runs , another dropped catch , that was so casual from Mire. Short and outside off stump , Khan pulls , but gets a bit of a top edge , it goes straight to deep square leg , who does n't accept the offer End of a brilliant spell from Chatara. He finishes with 10-2-35-3 48.6 Chatara to Riaz , no run , slower ball outside off stump , Riaz swings and misses. A soft appeal for caught behind from Chatara , but the umpire is n't keen 48.5 Chatara to Riaz , 2 runs , tries to slog the slower ball hard , mistimes it towards mid-on , Sohail Khan charges back for the second. The throw comes in but Chatara knocks the bails off before he collected the ball. A direct-hit would have been out 48.4 Chatara to Sohail Khan , leg byes , 1 run , full toss down the leg-side , Khan goes across and tries to help it on its way , but it hits him on the pad 48.3 Chatara to Riaz , 1 run , full toss , hit in the air and dropped. Matsikenyeri is the culprit. Riaz smashed it hard and flat to deep backward square leg , the fielder dived forward , had it covered but spilled it 48.3 Chatara to Riaz , wide , down the leg-side , Taylor is a livid man 48.2 Chatara to Riaz , no run , Riaz backs away very early , Chatara follows him with a slower ball , Riaz gets an inside edge that brushes the pad and rolls to the keeper 48.1 Chatara to Sohail Khan , 1 run , slower ball on the leg stump , Khan turns it to backward square leg 47.6 Panyangara to Riaz , 2 runs , yorker outside off stump , Riaz digs it out to backward point , he wants a run , but Khan initially says no , then he responds and both batsmen are stranded in the middle , the fielder takes aim , runs forward towards the stumps and has a shy but is way off target. What 's more , there was no one to back up inside the ring and they get an extra run 47.5 Panyangara to Riaz , SIX , just missed the yorker and Riaz gets under it. Full and in the slot , Riaz waits for the ball and smashes it straight into the sightscreen. He 's playing a handy little cameo here 47.4 Panyangara to Sohail Khan , 1 run , slower ball on the off stump , Khan guides it to backward point for a quick single 47.3 Panyangara to Riaz , 1 run , low full toss , swung away uppishly to deep mid-wicket 47.2 Panyangara to Riaz , no run , another toe-crusher , Riaz goes leg-side and swings across the line , in fact it went as a low full , Riaz got a bottom edge and rolled to the keeper 47.1 Panyangara to Riaz , no run , a fantastic yorker , Riaz somehow manages to dig it out as he backs away. The ball almost rolls back onto the stump 46.6 Chatara to Riaz , 1 run , slower ball from Chatara , Riaz slightly backs away and flicks it through backward square leg 46.6 Chatara to Riaz , wide , tries to follow Riaz as he backs away , but sprays it way down the leg-side 46.5 Chatara to Sohail Khan , 1 run , driven down to mid-on 46.4 Chatara to Sohail Khan , no run , full outside off stump , Khan steers it to point. Riaz was looking for a run , but Khan was n't keen 46.3 Chatara to Sohail Khan , no run , optimistic shout for LBW , it was going down the leg-side. Khan failed to flick the low full toss and got hit on the pad 46.2 Chatara to Riaz , 1 run , Riaz backs away and drives it to mid-off Sohail Khan , right handed bat , comes to the crease 46.1 Chatara to Misbah , out Caught by Sean Williams ! ! Oh no ! No hundred today as well. Big wicket for Zimbabwe. Chatara gets his third. Misbah backs away early , Chatara follows him with a full ball , Misbah tries to flick uppishly towards deep mid-wicket , but hits it a lot straighter , long-on runs to his right and takes an easy catch. Misbah shakes his head in disappointment. Riaz pats Misbah on the helmet as he was walking back. Misbah c Sean Williams b Chatara 73 ( 121 ) [ 4s-3 ] Chatara to Misbah , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Tendai Chatara [ 8.0-2-26-2 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Panyangara to Riaz , FOUR , 200 up for Pakistan and that gets their fans going in the stands. Short and asking to be hit , Riaz waits for the ball to come and pulls very well , the ball almost goes all the way. The man at long-on ran to his right but could n't get there in time 45.5 Panyangara to Misbah , 1 run , low full toss from Panyangara , Misbah flicks it to deep mid-wicket 45.4 Panyangara to Misbah , no run , back of a length outside off stump , punched off the back foot to cover-point 45.3 Panyangara to Riaz , 1 run , short and slow from Panyangara , Riaz backs away and pulls it along the ground to deep mid-wicket 45.2 Panyangara to Riaz , no run , slower ball on the leg stump , Riaz flicks it to mid-wicket , thinks about a run but the fielder got to the ball very quickly 45.1 Panyangara to Riaz , FOUR , handy hit from Riaz. Short and down the leg-side , Riaz slightly goes across and helps it over the man at short fine leg. Good start to the over for Pakistan Tinashe Panyangara [ 7.0-1-16-0 ] is back into the attack 44.6 Mupariwa to Misbah , 2 runs , slower ball outside off stump , Misbah delays the cut and sends it to the right of point 44.5 Mupariwa to Riaz , 1 run , shortish slower ball outside off stump , slapped on the bounce to sweeper cover 44.4 Mupariwa to Riaz , FOUR , this time he connects well and gets it in the gap as well. Low full toss angled in , Riaz takes a step out and just swipes it across the line through backward square leg 44.3 Mupariwa to Riaz , no run , full and down the leg-side , Riaz looks it swing it away behind square on the on-side , but gets hit on the thigh pad 44.2 Mupariwa to Riaz , no run , Riaz taps this off the front foot towards cover-point , Misbah takes off for a run , but Riaz says no 44.1 Mupariwa to Misbah , 1 run , nudged to mid-wicket for a run 44.1 Mupariwa to Misbah , wide , slower ball well outside off stump , left alone. No need to play at those Tawanda Mupariwa [ 7.0-1-27-1 ] is back into the attack Williams ends 10-1-48-2 . 43.6 Sean Williams to Riaz , no run , it 's a maiden over and he signs off in style. Williams bowls this on the stumps , Riaz respects it with a forward defence 43.5 Sean Williams to Riaz , no run , quicker ball , Riaz hangs back and defends 43.4 Sean Williams to Riaz , no run , a touch fast and full on the off stump , Riaz manages to block 43.3 Sean Williams to Riaz , no run , full and outside off stump , driven towards cover-point 43.2 Sean Williams to Riaz , no run , gets behind the line and defends well off the front foot 43.1 Sean Williams to Riaz , no run , tossed up just outside off stump , Riaz watchfully defends off the front foot Sean Williams [ 9.0-0-48-2 ] is back into the attack 42.6 Chatara to Riaz , 1 run , back of a length outside off stump , tapped to backward point 42.5 Chatara to Misbah , 1 run , this time he succeeds in guiding it down to third man 42.5 Chatara to Misbah , wide , down the leg-side , Misbah tries to tickle it on its way but misses 42.4 Chatara to Misbah , no run , looks to run it down to third man , but mistimes it to backward point 42.3 Chatara to Riaz , 3 runs , full and outside off stump , Riaz leans forward and drives it between cover and cover-point for three 42.2 Chatara to Riaz , no run , back of a length outside off stump , Riaz defends with an angled bat and sends it backward point 42.1 Chatara to Riaz , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Riaz defends it to cover-point 41.6 Panyangara to Misbah , no run , slower ball on the off stump , Misbah turns it to mid-wicket , Riaz looks for a run but Misbah sends him back 41.5 Panyangara to Misbah , 2 runs , short ball , pulled uppishly and wide of the man at short fine leg , deep square leg runs to his right and tidies up 41.4 Panyangara to Riaz , 1 run , defends the slower ball with soft hands to point , Misbah calls for a quick run and they make it easily in the end 41.3 Panyangara to Misbah , 1 run , walks across the stumps and nudges it to square leg 41.2 Panyangara to Riaz , 1 run , middle stump line , glanced away to fine leg 41.1 Panyangara to Misbah , 1 run , shuffles in the crease , Panyangara offers a back of a length ball , Misbah tries to work it on the on-side , the ball takes the glove and rolls into the on-side off the thigh pad 40.6 Chatara to Riaz , no run , fullish and outside off stump , Riaz defends off the front foot 40.5 Chatara to Riaz , FOUR , outside edge but there is no one at slip , would have been a dolly. Short of a length well wide outside off stump , Riaz looks to run it down to third man with an angled bat , gets a thick edge and it runs away for four 40.5 Chatara to Riaz , wide , short and down the leg-side. That is the 13th wide Zimbabwe have bowled today 40.4 Chatara to Misbah , 1 run , hops across , knocks this short of length delivery just beside the pitch on the on-side , looks at his partner and sets off 40.3 Chatara to Riaz , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Riaz steers it away to third man 40.3 Chatara to Riaz , wide , looks to angle this into the right-hander but sprays this down the leg-side 40.2 Chatara to Misbah , 1 run , short of length delivery and steeply rising , Misbah mistimes the pull towards mid-on 40.1 Chatara to Misbah , no run , short and well outside off stump , Misbah fetches the pull to mid-wicket , Riaz wants a run but Misbah sends him back 40.1 Chatara to Misbah , no run Tendai Chatara [ 6.0-2-11-2 ] is back into the attack Pakistan have scored 27/1 in the 5-over batting powerplay . 39.6 Panyangara to Riaz , no run , ends the over with a slower ball , Riaz defends off the front foot 39.5 Panyangara to Riaz , no run , full and outside off stump , Riaz defends off the front foot 39.4 Panyangara to Misbah , 1 run , slower ball outside off stump , Misbah jumps to the off-side and flicks this towards square leg 39.3 Panyangara to Riaz , 1 run , angled in from wide of the crease , worked away to square leg 39.2 Panyangara to Riaz , no run , full and outside off stump , Riaz defends it to cover , thinks about a run but decides against it 39.1 Panyangara to Riaz , 2 runs , short of length delivery down the leg-side , Riaz flicks it along the ground to deep square leg Tinashe Panyangara [ 5.0-1-6-0 ] is back into the attack 38.6 Mupariwa to Riaz , 1 run , gently taps the length ball towards mid-on and takes a brisk run 38.5 Mupariwa to Riaz , no run , fullish delivery outside off stump , Riaz defends off the front foot 38.4 Mupariwa to Misbah , 1 run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Misbah moves a long way across and flicks it to mid-wicket 38.3 Mupariwa to Riaz , 1 run , down the leg-side , glanced away to fine leg Wahab Riaz , right handed bat , comes to the crease 38.2 Mupariwa to Maqsood , out Caught&Bowled ! ! That 's a soft dismissal and it 's a good comeback by Mupariwa. Nothing great about this ball , it was a short of length delivery , Maqsood tried to flick , but got a healthy leading edge. It came straight at the bowler and he swallowed it. Maqsood was looking very positive and a promising innings comes to an end. Mupariwa is charged up and he pumps his fist in delight. Maqsood c and b Mupariwa 21 ( 17 ) [ 4s-2 ] Mupariwa to Maqsood , THATS OUT ! ! Caught&Bowled ! ! 38.1 Mupariwa to Maqsood , FOUR , bad ball and Maqsood makes full use of it. Short and wide outside off stump , Maqsood cuts it over backward point and it runs away to the boundary. In fact , Maqsood deliberately opened the face of the bat at the last moment to hit it over the infield Tawanda Mupariwa [ 6.0-1-20-0 ] is back into the attack Ervine has now gone off the field . 37.6 Sean Williams to Misbah , no run , spinning away outside off stump , pushed off the front foot towards cover 37.5 Sean Williams to Maqsood , 3 runs , too short and he cuts well off the back foot. The fielder at cover dives full length to his left and tries to stop , but the ball wins the race 37.4 Sean Williams to Maqsood , FOUR , this time he well over the infield and there is no one at sweeper cover. Much slower through the air from Sean Williams , Maqsood steps out and lofts it inside-out and it runs away to the boundary 37.3 Sean Williams to Maqsood , 2 runs , dropped , but a tough chance at cover. Flighted delivery outside off stump , Maqsood advances and goes inside-out , Craig Ervine jumped high , got both hands to it , but spilled it. That was hit very hard 37.2 Sean Williams to Misbah , leg byes , 1 run , down the leg-side , Misbah fails to connect the flick , it rolls off the pad to square leg 37.1 Sean Williams to Misbah , no run , darts this full and on the pads , Misbah inside edges the flick onto the pad and it rolls back to the bowler 36.6 Chatara to Maqsood , no run , Chatara cramps Maqsood for room with a short of length delivery , Maqsood mistimes the back foot punch to cover 36.5 Chatara to Misbah , 1 run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Misbah turns it to short mid-wicket 36.5 Chatara to Misbah , wide , bumper on the stumps , Misbah lets it go and it 's too high says the umpire 36.4 Chatara to Maqsood , 1 run , short ball , Maqsood rocks back and pulls it to deep square leg 36.3 Chatara to Maqsood , no run , walks across the stumps and flicks the short of length delivery to mid-wicket 36.2 Chatara to Maqsood , no run , width on offer outside off stump , Maqsood plays this to backward point 36.1 Chatara to Maqsood , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , driven on the rise to mid-off Tendai Chatara [ 5.0-2-8-2 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Sean Williams to Maqsood , 1 run , driven nicely , but straight to the man at long-off 35.5 Sean Williams to Maqsood , no run , allows the ball to spin away and watchfully pushes this off the front foot to cover 35.4 Sean Williams to Misbah , 1 run , quicker ball outside off stump , driven down to long-off 35.3 Sean Williams to Misbah , no run , shuffles in the crease and punches this short ball to mid-wicket 35.2 Sean Williams to Misbah , no run , darted down the leg-side , Misbah tucks it to backward square leg 35.1 Sean Williams to Maqsood , 1 run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , driven down to long-off Batting powerplay has been enforced . Coming back to Afridi 's dismissal , it is very interesting to note that the ball disturbed the surface on impact . 34.6 S Raza to Maqsood , 1 run , punched off the back foot to long-off 34.5 S Raza to Misbah , 1 run , shortish , whipped away to square leg 34.4 S Raza to Maqsood , 1 run , down the leg-side , flicked to deep square leg 34.3 S Raza to Misbah , 1 run , flatter ball , turned to backward square leg 34.2 S Raza to Maqsood , 3 runs , steps out and drives the flighted delivery to the left of mid-off , the fielder gives chase and saves one 34.1 S Raza to Misbah , 1 run , flatter delivery on the leg stump , Misbah tucks it to backward square leg 33.6 Sean Williams to Maqsood , no run , flatter delivery outside off stump , Maqsood punches it off the back foot towards cover A slip and leg slip in place . Sohaib Maqsood , right handed bat , comes to the crease 33.5 Sean Williams to Afridi , out Bowled ! ! Boom Boom has been knocked over ! Not the ideal Birthday present for Lala ! What a ball , Sean Williams ! That is an unplayable ball. This time Williams goes round-armish with a flatter ball , Afridi is completely opened up by the sharp turn away from him , he tries to defend but it beats the outside edge and shatters into middle and off. What an over for Zimbabwe and Williams. Afridi b Sean Williams 0 ( 2 ) Sean Williams to Afridi , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 33.4 Sean Williams to Afridi , no run , flatter ball down the leg-side , misses the flick and the ball rolls into the on-side off the pad Shahid Afridi , right handed bat , comes to the crease 33.3 Sean Williams to U Akmal , out Bowled ! ! Oh he 's bowled him against the run of play. These two were playing so freely , but Williams has bowled a top nut. It was tossed up from round the wicket , Akmal plays inside the line , the ball spins away and beats his attempted forward defence , before hitting the top of middle and off. Williams breaks a crucial 69-run stand. U Akmal b Sean Williams 33 ( 42 ) [ 4s-3 ] Sean Williams to U Akmal , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 33.2 Sean Williams to Misbah , 1 run , Misbah only opts to tap this short ball to the right of backward point 33.1 Sean Williams to Misbah , no run , short from Williams as well , Misbah backs away and cuts , but picks out the man at cover Chigumbura has suffered a suspected muscle tear and has gone for a MRI scan. Not great news for Zimbabwe . 32.6 S Raza to Misbah , 3 runs , no one at sweeper cover and Misbah has spotted it. Too short and on the stumps , Misbah goes leg-side , also rocks back and cuts it to the right of cover-point , the fielder gives chase and saves one 32.5 S Raza to U Akmal , 1 run , full and outside off stump , driven along the ground to long-off 32.4 S Raza to U Akmal , no run , on the leg stump , flicks and picks out square leg 32.3 S Raza to U Akmal , no run , spinning back into the right-hander , Akmal defends and gets an inside edge onto pad 32.2 S Raza to U Akmal , no run , on the leg stump , turned to mid-wicket 32.1 S Raza to Misbah , 1 run , flatter ball down the leg-side , flicked into the on-side In 2002 , when Australia played England in a a Test match at the Gabba , Simon Jones injured his knee , while looking to save a boundary. It is believed that the rye and couch grasses at the Gabba are coarser than one usually gets to see at some other grounds. In fact , at other grounds , the grass absorbs moisture , and that results in minimising the friction and the fielder can slide . Zimbabwe have bowled with purpose , but it has to be said that Pakistan 's batsmen have shown no intent to take on their bowlers. Umar Akmal though , by playing a few eye-catching shots gave Pakistan the hope of amassing a competitive total on the board. On the other hand , there were a few anxious moments for Zimbabwe when Chigumbura seemed to have hurt his knee while looking to save a boundary. Fortunately , he was able to walk and he was helped off the ground . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the last 17 overs : Despite struggling to bisect the gaps in the field , Misbah-ul-Haq and Haris Sohail stitched a 50-run partnership. However , after playing out a lot of dot deliveries , Haris threw his wicket by pulling a delivery straight to Sean Williams off Sikandar Raza 's bowling. On occasions , Elton Chigumbura , Zimbabwe 's captain , struggled to bowl to the left-handed Haris. However , Raza broke the partnership at a crucial juncture by taking the wicket of Haris . Drinks are on the field now 31.6 Sean Williams to U Akmal , no run , bit of turn and it catches Akmal 's outside edge as he looks to defend off the front foot. The ball rolls along the ground to short third man though 31.5 Sean Williams to U Akmal , no run , spinning away outside off stump , defended 31.4 Sean Williams to Misbah , 1 run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Misbah sweeps it to long leg and raises his bat for his 40th ODI fifty. Timely knock from the Pakistani skipper , but the job is only half done. Great chance for him to notch up his maiden ODI hundred today ! 31.3 Sean Williams to U Akmal , 1 run , a gentle nudge to short mid-wicket to get Misbah back on strike 31.2 Sean Williams to U Akmal , no run , flatter ball , punched again , to the right of the bowler and short mid-wicket quickly gets to the ball 31.1 Sean Williams to Misbah , 1 run , Misbah jumps to the leg-side , Williams cramps him for room with a flatter ball , the batsman manages to punch it off the back foot to long-off 30.6 S Raza to Misbah , 1 run , the reverse sweep , connects well but does n't get the placement right as it goes straight to short third man 30.5 S Raza to U Akmal , 1 run , too short but he gets away with it as Akmal mistimes the pull along the ground to deep mid-wicket 30.4 S Raza to U Akmal , no run , tossed up on the off stump , defended off the front foot 30.3 S Raza to U Akmal , 2 runs , very full and outside off stump , Akmal drives well off the front foot , long-off runs to his left to tidy up 30.2 S Raza to U Akmal , no run , bit of sharp turn into the right-hander , Akmal punches it back to the bowler 30.1 S Raza to Misbah , 1 run , round the wicket , full toss outside off stump , wristed to mid-wicket Sikandar Raza [ 4.0-0-16-1 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Sean Williams to Misbah , 3 runs , 'catch ' is the call , but Misbah has swept this well wide of the man at short fine leg , Panyangara runs and dives to his right from deep square leg , but fumbles the ball as it slips under his body , Akmal is aware of the situation and he takes the third run. Williams is not impressed with the fielder 29.5 Sean Williams to U Akmal , 1 run , waits for the ball to turn and nudges this to square leg 29.4 Sean Williams to U Akmal , no run , takes this flighted delivery on the full and plays the on-drive , Raza moves swiftly to his left at mid-wicket and stops the ball 29.3 Sean Williams to Misbah , 1 run , worked away along the ground to square leg 29.2 Sean Williams to Misbah , no run , backs away , bowler follows him and Misbah punches it back to Williams 29.2 Sean Williams to Misbah , wide , way down the leg-side. Fifty partnership off just 56 balls , much needed stand for Pakistan 29.1 Sean Williams to U Akmal , 1 run , on the pads , turned to short mid-wicket for a sharp run 28.6 Solomon Mire to U Akmal , 1 run , full outside off stump , Akmal drives it to cover 28.5 Solomon Mire to Misbah , 1 run , easy ball and an easy run. Short ball guided down to third man 28.4 Solomon Mire to U Akmal , 1 run , short and width on offer outside off stump , guided down to third man 28.4 Solomon Mire to U Akmal , wide , bit of aggression from Mire , bangs this short , Akmal drops his wrists and lets it go , but the umpire does n't like the height on this one 28.3 Solomon Mire to U Akmal , no run , that 's a wonderful drive , but the fielder at cover , Hamilton Masakadza that is , makes a good diving save to his right. That was heading to the boundary 28.2 Solomon Mire to U Akmal , FOUR , gentle little tickle and it 's good enough to go all the way. Friendly length ball on the pads , Akmal waits it and just turns it at the last moment to send it fine to the fine leg boundary 28.1 Solomon Mire to Misbah , 1 run , steeply rising short of length delivery outside off stump , Misbah rides the bounce and guides it to the left of the diving fielder at backward point Solomon Mire , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 27.6 Sean Williams to U Akmal , no run , pushes hard and away from the body at this flighted delivery , Akmal gets a thickish edge that rolls to point 27.5 Sean Williams to U Akmal , FOUR , over the top and away for four ! Short from Williams this time , Akmal rocks back and pulls over the man at mid-wicket , who jumps high in vain 27.4 Sean Williams to U Akmal , no run , flatter in trajectory , blocked into the on-side 27.3 Sean Williams to Misbah , 1 run , nice drive , but a good half-stop by the man at cover. Misbah exposes all his sticks , Williams offers a flighted delivery on the stumps , Misbah drives well , the fielder dives to his right and takes pace off the ball 27.2 Sean Williams to U Akmal , 1 run , allows the ball to come and softly nudges it to short mid-wicket 27.1 Sean Williams to Misbah , 1 run , backs away and drives the full ball to long-off 26.6 S Raza to U Akmal , no run , ends the over with a quicker ball on the stumps , blocked off the front foot 26.5 S Raza to U Akmal , 2 runs , 'two , two ' calls Akmal immediately after driving this flighted delivery very well off the front foot , long-off runs to his left and tidies up 26.4 S Raza to U Akmal , no run , short and slow , Akmal waits for it to spin back in and cuts it to backward point 26.3 S Raza to Misbah , 1 run , similar ball and a similar shot , but this time only for a run 26.2 S Raza to Misbah , 2 runs , gets down on one knee and paddles this fine to fine leg for a couple of runs 26.1 S Raza to U Akmal , 1 run , slider just outside off stump , punched off the front foot to long-off 25.6 Sean Williams to U Akmal , 1 run , glances the slider to short fine leg , where the fielder makes a diving save 25.5 Sean Williams to U Akmal , FOUR , it 's too short this time and Akmal punishes it. Akmal rocks back and pulls over the infield , there was a man at deep mid-wicket , but it went wide of him to his left 25.4 Sean Williams to U Akmal , no run , down the leg-side , flatter in trajectory this time , Akmal tucks it to mid-wicket 25.3 Sean Williams to U Akmal , no run , gently turns this flighted delivery to short fine 25.2 Sean Williams to Misbah , 1 run , short enough for Misbah to hang back and punch to long-off 25.1 Sean Williams to U Akmal , 1 run , starts off from round the wicket , Akmal drives it down to long-on Sean Williams [ 2.0-0-11-0 ] is back into the attack 24.6 S Raza to Misbah , no run , full and on off , almost hit the block-hole there , driven back towards the bowler 24.5 S Raza to Misbah , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Misbah goes back and blocks 24.4 S Raza to Misbah , 2 runs , Raza drifts one on Misbah 's pads , whipped away in front of square on the on-side for a brace 24.3 S Raza to U Akmal , 1 run , tossed up and on off , pushed in front of mid-off for a quick single 24.2 S Raza to U Akmal , no run , tossed up and on Akmal 's pads , he was looking to nudge it towards the on-side , closed the face of the bat and gets a leading edge , nearly popped a simple catch to short mid-wicket 24.1 S Raza to Misbah , 1 run , the lap sweep from Misbah , gets down on his knees and helps it behind square on the on-side for a single 23.6 Mupariwa to U Akmal , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and on Akmal 's pads , tucked away behind square on the on-side. Akmal wants the second run , excellent running there,and he 's home despite a direct hit from the fielder 23.5 Mupariwa to Misbah , 1 run , width on offer from Mupariwa , cracked away square on the off-side for a single 23.4 Mupariwa to Misbah , no run , short of a length and just outside off , defended off the back foot and towards point 23.3 Mupariwa to Misbah , no run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed off the back foot towards backward point Chigumbura was in excruciating pain and could n't get up , the physio is out there and so is the stretcher. But thankfully he can walk and is being helped away from the ground. That 's a big blow for Zimbabwe if he ca n't bat , he 's off the field now , looks like Taylor will take over the captaincy 23.2 Mupariwa to Misbah , FOUR , Oh dear ! Has Chigumbura injured himself here ? This was full and wide outside off , Misbah drives it past mid-off. Chigumbura hares after the ball , but just as he set himself for the dive , he tripped over his right leg , hits the turf with his left knee , the ball rolls away to the fence 23.1 Mupariwa to Misbah , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Misbah presses forward and defends it towards the off-side 22.6 S Raza to U Akmal , no run , the arm-ball from Raza , goes with the angle and well outside off , Akmal looks to drive and is beaten 22.5 S Raza to Misbah , 1 run , almost holed out to long-on , Misbah was looking for the shovelled hoick over mid-wicket , does n't get hold of the shot , luckily for him , it drops well in front of long-on 22.4 S Raza to Misbah , no run , full and on the pads , turned towards backward square leg 22.3 S Raza to Misbah , no run , tad fuller and on Misbah 's pads , clipped straight to the fielder at mid-wicket 22.2 S Raza to U Akmal , 1 run , slower and drifting onto Akmal 's pads , nudged behind square on the on-side for a single 22.1 S Raza to U Akmal , no run , flighted and going away with the angle , defended with soft hands towards short cover 21.6 Mupariwa to Misbah , no run , on a length and just outside off , dabbed straight to the fielder at backward point 21.5 Mupariwa to Misbah , no run , Mupariwa shortens his length on off , Misbah presses across and defends it back towards the bowler 21.4 Mupariwa to Misbah , no run , tad fuller and well outside off , Misbah leans forward and pushes it towards cover 21.3 Mupariwa to U Akmal , 1 run , too straight from Mupariwa , worked to the left of square leg for a single 21.2 Mupariwa to U Akmal , no run , Mupariwa shortens his length outside off , Akmal gets behind the line and blocks 21.1 Mupariwa to Misbah , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , driven down towards long-on for a single Tawanda Mupariwa [ 4.0-1-11-0 ] is back into the attack 20.6 S Raza to Misbah , 1 run , fraction shorter and on the stumps , pulled away behind square on the on-side for a single 20.5 S Raza to Misbah , 2 runs , the reverse sweep from Misbah , Masakadza does well to get some hand on it as he dived across from short third man , Misbah is back for the second run 20.4 S Raza to Misbah , no run , pushed through and well outside off , punched back towards the bowler 20.3 S Raza to Misbah , no run , flatter and just outside off , punched back towards the bowler 20.2 S Raza to U Akmal , 1 run , tossed up and on the stumps , worked to the right of mid-wicket for a single Raza is coming from round the wicket to Akmal Umar Akmal , right handed bat , comes to the crease 20.1 S Raza to Sohail , out Caught by Sean Williams ! ! Soft dismissal for Sohail ! He is crestfallen as he walks back to the hut. This was dropped short and just outside off , Sohail rocked back on the pull , he hit it pretty well but straight to Williams at short mid-wicket. Raza is pumped up , the partnership has been broken. Sohail c Sean Williams b S Raza 27 ( 44 ) [ 4s-2 ] S Raza to Sohail , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Sikandar Raza , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 19.6 H Masakadza to Sohail , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , guided to the right of cover for a single 19.5 H Masakadza to Misbah , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven crisply and straight to the fielder at deep cover , just a single 19.4 H Masakadza to Misbah , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Misbah lunges forward and defends it 19.3 H Masakadza to Sohail , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Sohail runs it down towards third man for a single 19.2 H Masakadza to Sohail , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Sohail looks to drive and misses 19.1 H Masakadza to Sohail , FOUR , just past short fine , poor ball from Masakadza , on Sohail 's pads , flicked away uppishly and past the diving fielder at short fine , a much needed boundary for Pakistan Pakistan 's fifty is the slowest by a Test playing nation in this World Cup 18.6 Chigumbura to Misbah , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Misbah plays with an open face and guides it towards backward point 18.5 Chigumbura to Sohail , 1 run , Chigumbura has n't got his line right to the left-hander , short and on Sohail 's pads , tucked away towards long leg 18.4 Chigumbura to Misbah , 1 run , short of a length and angling onto Misbah 's pads , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single over the wicket to Misbah 18.3 Chigumbura to Sohail , 1 run , back of a length and well outside off , dabbed away towards third man for a single 18.3 Chigumbura to Sohail , wide , this is a poor over from Chigumbura , miles outside off once again , wide called 18.2 Chigumbura to Sohail , no run , that 's much better , short of a length and just outside off , Sohail looks to cut and is beaten by the bounce Chigumbura changes to round the wicket 18.2 Chigumbura to Sohail , wide , this is even bigger , full and miles outside off , Sohail threw his bat at that and missed , wide called 18.2 Chigumbura to Sohail , wide , Chigumbura drifts this one miles outside off as Sohail gave the charge , wide called 18.1 Chigumbura to Sohail , no run , short of a length and on the stumps , Sohail works it in front of square leg and set-off , the fielder at mid-wicket gets across quickly prompting Misbah to send his partner back 18.1 Chigumbura to Sohail , wide , Chigumbura slips his first ball way down leg-side , called as a wide Elton Chigumbura , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 17.6 H Masakadza to Misbah , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Misbah turns it towards mid-wicket 17.5 H Masakadza to Misbah , no run , on a length and just outside off , defended with an open face 17.4 H Masakadza to Sohail , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Sohail runs it down towards third man for a single 17.3 H Masakadza to Misbah , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , steered away towards third man for a single 17.2 H Masakadza to Misbah , no run , back to block mode , on a good length and just outside off , defended towards the off-side 17.1 H Masakadza to Misbah , FOUR , nicely played by Misbah , fraction short and just outside off , Misbah is quick to rock back and pulls it wide of mid-wicket , splits the gap to pefection and earns himself a boundary 16.6 Sean Williams to Misbah , 1 run , slower and just outside off , punched down towards long-on for a single 16.5 Sean Williams to Misbah , no run , Williams pushed this one flatter and on the stumps as Misbah threatened to back away , he ends up blocking it 16.4 Sean Williams to Sohail , 1 run , tossed up and on the off-stump line , nudged backward of square on the on-side for a single 16.3 Sean Williams to Sohail , no run , tossed up and just outside off , defended with a straight bat 16.2 Sean Williams to Misbah , 1 run , Misbah shimmies down the track , gets to the pitch of a well flighted delivery and drives it down towards long-off for a single 16.1 Sean Williams to Sohail , 1 run , pushed through on off , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a single 15.6 H Masakadza to Misbah , no run , on a length and well outside off , Misbah presses forward in defence 15.5 H Masakadza to Misbah , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , defended with an angled bat towards backward point 15.4 H Masakadza to Misbah , no run , on a good length and angling back into Misbah , defended towards the on-side 15.3 H Masakadza to Misbah , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , pushed towards mid-off 15.2 H Masakadza to Misbah , no run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed straight to the fielder at backward point The keeper is up to the stumps for Masakadza 15.1 H Masakadza to Sohail , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , extra bounce off the deck , Sohail steers it away towards third man for a single Hamilton Masakadza , right-arm medium , comes into the attack Zimbabwe 's seamers have teased and tempted Pakistan 's batsmen to their downfall. In fact , both Chatara and Panyangara have bowled well upfront in this tournament. On expected lines , the deck at the Gabba has offered some encouragement for the seamers. However , the batsmen have n't helped their cause by hanging back in the crease. For Pakistan , Misbah-ul-Haq has to yet again shore up their innings. Unfortunately , he has struggled for timing so far . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the first 15 overs : Zimbabwe 's seamers , Tinashe Panyangara , Tendai Chatara and Tawanda Mupariwa found enough movement in the air and off the deck to trouble Pakistan 's batsmen. Chatara was rewarded for his unremitting control with the wicket of Nasir Jamshed. Jamshed has made just 58 runs in the last eight ODIs he has played. Chatara , then produced a superb delivery that straightened off the deck to induce the edge and send Ahmed Shehzad back to the pavilion . Drinks are on the field now 14.6 Sean Williams to Sohail , 1 run , flatter and just outside off , worked past mid-wicket for a single 14.5 Sean Williams to Misbah , 1 run , Williams tosses one well outside off , driven down towards long-off for a single 14.4 Sean Williams to Misbah , no run , slower and wider from Williams , Misbah lunges forward and blocks 14.3 Sean Williams to Misbah , FOUR , that 's Misbah 's first boundary ! This was tossed up and wider outside off , Misbah gets a big stride forward and drills it through extra cover , the fielder in the deep is very square 14.2 Sean Williams to Sohail , 1 run , flighted and just outside off , Sohail is early into the drive , the ball goes in the air but well wide of the fielder at mid-wicket , rolls away towards long-on 14.1 Sean Williams to Sohail , no run , flighted and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler Sean Williams , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 13.6 Panyangara to Misbah , no run , on a good length and just outside off , blocked back towards the bowler 13.5 Panyangara to Sohail , 1 run , full and just outside off , punched to the left of mid-off for a single 13.4 Panyangara to Misbah , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , guided away towards third man for a single 13.3 Panyangara to Misbah , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Misbah gets well forward and blocks 13.2 Panyangara to Misbah , no run , full and on Misbah 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball hits his pads and rolls away towards square leg 13.1 Panyangara to Misbah , no run , on a good length and a hint of shape away , Misbah is slightly opened up as he defends 12.6 Mupariwa to Sohail , 4 runs , that 's much better from Sohail , comes down the track , gets to the pitch of a length ball and heaves it over mid-wicket , the outfield is massive at the Gabba. The ball stops around 10 yards in front of the ropes , but the batsmen have time to come back for the fourth run 12.5 Mupariwa to Sohail , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven straight to the fielder at mid-off 12.4 Mupariwa to Misbah , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Misbah dabs it to the left of backward point and calls for a quick single 12.3 Mupariwa to Sohail , 1 run , too straight from Mupariwa , ends up drifting onto Sohail 's pads , clipped away behind square on the on-side for a single 12.2 Mupariwa to Sohail , no run , Mupariwa keeps it full and on off , punched straight to the fielder at mid-off 12.1 Mupariwa to Misbah , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , dabbed away towards third man for a single 11.6 Panyangara to Sohail , no run , excellent bowling from Panyangara , pushes this one with the angle and across Sohail , he has a feel for that and is beaten 11.5 Panyangara to Sohail , no run , that 's a wild heave from Sohail , he 's feeling the lack of runs , this was full and angling away , Sohail gets forward and looks to deposit it somewhere over mid-wicket , loses his shape and is completely beaten 11.4 Panyangara to Sohail , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended with a straight towards mid-off 11.3 Panyangara to Sohail , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Sohail prods forward and defends it towards backward point 11.2 Panyangara to Sohail , no run , that 's very loose from Sohail , this was pitched up and goes with the angle , Sohail is lured into the drive , the bottom hand comes off as he swings and misses 11.1 Panyangara to Sohail , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , Sohail is happy to let it go Tinashe Panyangara [ 3.0-0-4-0 ] is back into the attack 10.6 Mupariwa to Misbah , no run , on a good length and well outside off , Misbah was pushing forward on the drive , gets an inside edge onto the pads 10.5 Mupariwa to Misbah , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Misbah nearly falls over the flick , just about manages to keep some control , does n't carry to the man at short mid-wicket 10.5 Mupariwa to Misbah , wide , Mupariwa bangs one short and just outside off , too high though , called as a wide 10.4 Mupariwa to Misbah , 2 runs , much better from Misbah , he has doubled his score with one shot ! Full and on the stumps , Misbah shuffles across and flicks it behind square on the on-side , the ball was in the air but it fell well in front of the fielder 10.3 Mupariwa to Misbah , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Misbah walks into the drive and mistimes it towards mid-off 10.2 Mupariwa to Misbah , no run , back of a length and angling into Misbah , he nudges it in front of square leg , thinks about a single and then wisely decides against it 10.1 Mupariwa to Misbah , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Misbah presses across and defends it towards the off-side This is the lowest mandatory powerplay score in this year 's World Cup. Pressure already on Pakistan ! 9.6 Chatara to Misbah , 1 run , Misbah gets a run ! This was full and well outside off , driven to the left of mid-off for a single 9.5 Chatara to Misbah , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler 9.4 Chatara to Misbah , no run , stifled shout for LBW , but the height was an issue , Misbah was shuffling across as he looked to work it towards the on-side , the impact was just on off but would have sailed over the top 9.3 Chatara to Misbah , no run , tad fuller and well outside off , Misbah lunges forward , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and guides it towards gully 9.2 Chatara to Misbah , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Misbah gets well forward and drives it towards cover 9.1 Chatara to Sohail , 1 run , too straight and on Sohail 's pads , worked away to the left of mid-on. Chigumbura is quick on the ball and prevents a second run 8.6 Mupariwa to Misbah , no run , short and wide from Mupariwa , Misbah cuts it to the left of backward point. Williams scrambles across and prevents runs 8.5 Mupariwa to Misbah , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Misbah gets behind the line and defends it back towards the bowler 8.4 Mupariwa to Misbah , no run , Mupariwa keeps it on a good length and well outside off , left alone 8.3 Mupariwa to Misbah , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel around off , Misbah shuffles a long way on the clip , gets an inside edge onto the pads 8.2 Mupariwa to Misbah , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Misbah presses forward and defends it 8.1 Mupariwa to Misbah , no run , too straight from Misbah , and the stumps at the other end denies him a boundary ! This was full and on off , Misbah drives it with a straight bat , a yard on either side , and it would have been a boundary 7.6 Chatara to Misbah , 1 run , Misbah is off the mark , short and rising from the deck , Misbah does well to drop his wrists and nudges it to the left of the keeper for a single 7.5 Chatara to Misbah , no run , tad fuller and angling back into Misbah , he shuffles across , gets his bat in front of the pads and blocks 7.4 Chatara to Misbah , no run , Chatara keeps it full and gets it to shape away from outside off , left alone 7.3 Chatara to Misbah , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Misbah lunges forward and blocks 7.2 Chatara to Misbah , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , left alone 7.1 Chatara to Misbah , no run , fuller length delivery and nipping back into Misbah , he presses across and defends it towards mid-on 6.6 Mupariwa to Sohail , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Sohail gets well forward and defends it towards short cover 6.6 Mupariwa to Sohail , wide , Mupariwa sprays this one miles outside off , wide called 6.5 Mupariwa to Sohail , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Sohail shuffles across and defends it towards short cover 6.4 Mupariwa to Sohail , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , left alone 6.3 Mupariwa to Sohail , no run , and that 's the reason for the change , Mupariwa pushes this one across the left-hander , entices Sohail into the drive and beats the outside edge The gully moves across to short cover 6.2 Mupariwa to Sohail , no run , tad fuller and going away with the angle , Sohail was looking to force it away off the back foot , gets an inside edge back towards the bowler 6.1 Mupariwa to Sohail , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Sohail gets behind the line and defends it towards the off-side A slip and a gully for Mupariwa Tawanda Mupariwa , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 5.6 Chatara to Misbah , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Misbah gets a big stride forward as he pushes the ball towards cover 5.5 Chatara to Sohail , 1 run , short of a length and on the stumps , Sohail nudges it to the left of mid-on and calls Misbah through for a single 5.4 Chatara to Sohail , no run , Chatara keeps it full and shaping away from well outside off , left alone 5.3 Chatara to Sohail , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , left alone 5.2 Chatara to Sohail , FOUR , shot , first runs off Chatara , that should give Sohail plenty of confidence , overpitched and on the off-stump line , Sohail presents the full face of the bat on the drive , Chatara gets a boot on that , but the ball beats mid-on and races away to the fence 5.1 Chatara to Sohail , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , defended towards mid-off 4.6 Panyangara to Misbah , no run , Panyangara shortens his length outside off and gets it to hold its line , left alone 4.5 Panyangara to Misbah , no run , appeal for LBW , but it looked like it the impact was well outside off , Misbah got a big stride forward to this inswinger , gets himself out of the line and gets struck on the pads 4.4 Panyangara to Misbah , no run , fuller and closer to the off-stump , Misbah gets a big stride , lifts his bat and lets it go 4.3 Panyangara to Misbah , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , looking to lure Misbah into the drive , he resists and lets it go 4.2 Panyangara to Misbah , no run , on a good length and angling into Misbah , he moves across a long way and gets an inside edge onto the pads Two slips for Panyangara 4.1 Panyangara to Sohail , 1 run , a run off the bat , back of a length and on Sohail 's hips , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single 3.6 Chatara to Misbah , no run , another wicket-maiden from Chatara , fuller length delivery and holding its line outside off , Misbah lunges forward and defends it Two slips and a gully in place as a fired up Chatara strolls in Misbah-ul-Haq , right handed bat , comes to the crease 3.5 Chatara to Ahmed Shehzad , out Caught by Brendan Taylor ! ! That 's a cracker from Chatara , unplayable stuff ! Shehzad is dismissed for a duck ! This was pitched in that corridor outside off , draws Shehzad forward before leaving him late. Shehzad was n't fully forward , pokes at that and the thin edge is found. Brendan Taylor gleefully accepts the offering. Pakistan are in early trouble once again. Ahmed Shehzad c Brendan Taylor b Chatara 0 ( 11 ) Chatara to Ahmed Shehzad , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 3.4 Chatara to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , Shehzad gets a good stride forward , lifts his bat and lets it go 3.3 Chatara to Sohail , leg byes , 1 run , too straight from Chatara , ends up drifting onto Sohail 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away towards long-leg 3.2 Chatara to Sohail , no run , Chatara shortens his length by a fraction and gets this one to shape away from outside off , left alone 3.1 Chatara to Sohail , no run , that 's a brave leave from Sohail , this was full and nipped back in a fraction , Sohail covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go , good carry to the keeper 2.6 Panyangara to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Shehzad gets forward on the drive , the bat turned slightly and he gets an inside edge towards mid-on 2.5 Panyangara to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Shehzad leans forward and drives it crisply towards mid-on , Chibhabha gets across quickly , puts in the dive and saves a certain boundary 2.4 Panyangara to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Shehzad gets behind the line and defends it back towards the bowler 2.3 Panyangara to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Shehzad gets well forward and drives it towards mid-off 2.2 Panyangara to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and on the stumps , Shehzad does a little shuffle and defends it with a straight bat towards mid-on 2.2 Panyangara to Ahmed Shehzad , wide , Panyangara overcompensates and strays one down leg , wide called 2.2 Panyangara to Ahmed Shehzad , wide , Panyangara strays this one miles outside off , wide called 2.1 Panyangara to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , the height was a question , it looked like the ball was slipping down leg as well , Shehzad was caught in his crease to one that jagged back in sharply , he ended up playing across the line and is struck high on the pads Loud shout for LBW , Zimbabwe will not review Haris Sohail , left handed bat , comes to the crease 1.6 Chatara to Jamshed , out Caught by S Raza ! ! Another failure for Jamshed ! This was short and just outside off , Jamshed swivelled across on the pull , he connected it quite beautifully , but forgot to keep it on the ground. The ball goes straight to square leg , Raza was the fielder there , he does n't drop those. Just the start Zimbabwe wanted. A wicket-maiden to start off from Chatara. Jamshed c S Raza b Chatara 1 ( 9 ) Chatara to Jamshed , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 1.5 Chatara to Jamshed , no run , this is good bowling from Chatara , he keeps hitting the length outside off , Jamshed shuffles across and defends it towards the on-side 1.4 Chatara to Jamshed , no run , tad fuller and shaping away from off , Jamshed presses across and defends it towards square leg 1.3 Chatara to Jamshed , no run , tad fuller and in that corridor outside off , Jamshed gets behind the line and defends it towards mid-off 1.2 Chatara to Jamshed , no run , Chatara shortens his length on off , Jamshed presses across and pushes it towards square leg 1.1 Chatara to Jamshed , no run , fuller length delivery and a hint of nip in the air , Jamshed gets well forward and defends it towards mid-on Tendai Chatara , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Panyangara to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery and holding its line outside off , left alone 0.5 Panyangara to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full and on off , Shehzad presents the full face of the bat and pushes it past the bowler. Chibhabha dives across to his left at mid-on and stops a single 0.4 Panyangara to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , that one nearly sneaked through , this was pitched up and nipped back in from off , Shehzad was half-forward in defence , gets an inside edge onto his thigh pad 0.3 Panyangara to Jamshed , 1 run , first run for Pakistan , fraction short and on Jamshed 's pads , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a single 0.2 Panyangara to Jamshed , no run , tad fuller and shaping away from outside off , Jamshed gets a good stride forward and pushes it towards cover Two slips in place for Panyangara 0.1 Panyangara to Jamshed , no run , short of a length and around off , Jamshed presses across and tucks it towards mid-wicket Jamshed and Ahmed Shehzad are at the crease. Jamshed is on strike. Panyangara will open the attack Nasir Jamshed will take first strike. Panyangara is the opening bowler for Zimbabwe . Shehzad gets a pat on the back from coach Waqar Younis as he strides out to the middle. Zimbabwe are in the middle of a team huddle . It 's the last match at the Gabba and the two teams are pretty much at the last chance saloon position. A loss here , and chances for the losing team to get through to the knock-out stage gets even more tougher . Teams : Zimbabwe ( Playing XI ) : Chamu Chibhabha , Sikandar Raza , Hamilton Masakadza , Brendan Taylor ( w ) , Sean Williams , Craig Ervine , Elton Chigumbura ( c ) , Solomon Mire , Tawanda Mupariwa , Tinashe Panyangara , Tendai Chatara Pakistan ( Playing XI ) : Nasir Jamshed , Ahmed Shehzad , Haris Sohail , Misbah-ul-Haq ( c ) , Sohaib Maqsood , Umar Akmal ( w ) , Shahid Afridi , Wahab Riaz , Sohail Khan , Rahat Ali , Mohammad Irfan Pakistan have won the toss and have opted to bat Chigumbura : " It 's going to be a tough day , but we are up for it. Hopefully we can play good cricket today. I think it 's still a good wicket to bat in the second innings , we just have to make sure that we play good cricket today. I think today it is going to be better ( talking about death bowling ) , I believe that we have worked out , hopefully we can execute today. It 's important , especially if you are chasing , to have someone , who 's in and who can bat through the innings. So hopefully we can have someone today , who can bat through. Three changes , Chibhabha , Mire and Mupariwa in and then Kamungozi , Chakabva and Matsikenyeri are out. " Misbah : " It 's very important for us , especially this game , because we lost the first two games. Just really want to win a game here and just have to play well. We are going to bat first. I think it 's good to have a total on the board. Especially , under lights in Australia , we have been noticing that , once you get a good total on the board it 's not easy to just chase it down. What we are looking at the tournament is good to have wickets in hand , and just build up the innings nicely and then , you could in the last 10-15 overs you could really capitalise on that. This is what the trend is going on during this World Cup. So hopefully we have just manage to do that. We 've got one change , unfortunately Younis Khan is not playing and Rahat Ali is in. " Pitch Report : " There was a lot of grass a couple of days ago , but it 's nicely rolled in. If you tap the wicket , it 's rock hard and it 's a typical Gabba wicket. The new ball will do its bit early on , but teams should look to bat first on the surface , " reckons Wasim Akram . Pakistan opener Ahmed Shehzad has been cleared for this contest after suffering an ankle injury. Shehzad , who was complaining of pain in his left ankle after team practice a few days ago , was sent for an MRI scan , but the right-hander is declared fit for today 's game , which is great news for Pakistan as he plays a key role with the bat at the top of the order . Head-to-head : Expectedly , Pakistan lead Zimbabwe on head-to-head count in ODIs by a margin of 42-3. However , Zimbabwe will take confidence from the fact that they managed to beat Misbah 's boys in August , 2013. When it comes to World Cup cricket though , Pakistan have never lost to Zimbabwe . Weather Report : It 's a bright and sunny day at the Gabba. The temperature is expected to hover around 31 degrees. The relative humidity is 53 % . There are no chances of showers . " We have to improve how we are bowling at the death and sooner we do , the better for the team ; and looking at the games we have played , it has cost us. The percentage was maybe 80 out of a 100 on execution. It has cost us and it 's not the first game that we are giving away too many runs at the end. We just have to go out and work on our last 15 overs , " said captain Elton Chigumbura after his side 's loss to West Indies . On the other hand , Zimbabwe have had a roller-coaster ride so far in the tournament. While they ran South Africa close despite chasing a big total in their first game , they held their nerve to beat UAE in the second. However , in the third match , the Gaylestorm blew them completely away as the giant left-hander went on to record the first double-hundred in World Cup history. With just one win in three games , Zimbabwe will have to win almost all their remaining matches to stay alive in the tournament . " I am very optimistic that they can win but if they do n't they have to go back home early , " warned former Pakistan skipper Wasim Akram after the loss to West Indies. Meanwhile , " I have not seen a more coward and selfish captain than Misbah. He is not willing to bat up the order to protect the other players at a time when he needs to show inspiration. He is happy with his own runs and I do n't know what coach Waqar Younis wants. He has no game plan or direction for the team. " said former Pakistan cricketer Shoaib Akhtar to a renowned news channel . The build up to this match has not been ideal for Pakistan. First , chief selector Moin Khan was sent home after admitting that he visited a casino in Christchurch ahead of the team 's second Pool B game against West Indies. Then , a tweet supposedly from an official Younis Khan account said he was going to retire from ODIs after the World Cup and continue to play Tests , but Younis rubbished the news and claimed he did not have a Twitter account of his own . Pakistan did not have the best of starts to their 2015 World Cup campaign. With history against them , they took on India at the Adelaide Oval , but the pressure of the big game got the better of them as MS Dhoni 's boys went on to beat them by a comfortable margin. Their performance in the second game , against West Indies , would hurt them even more. After a collective effort from the middle-order helped West Indies post 310 , Pakistan were reduced to 1/4 in the 4th over and could never really keep up with the asking rate , before eventually losing the match by a whopping 150 runs . 12 : 15 Local Time , 02 : 15 GMT , 07 : 45 IST : With two losses in two games so far , the pressure is immense on Pakistan , who are expected to qualify for the quarterfinals. With one more game left against a tough opponent , in South Africa , Misbah-ul-Haq and Co. would want to seal this fixture to have a bit of momentum behind them. Hello and a warm welcome to everyone. The action shifts to the Gabba in Brisbane today for this Pool B encounter between Pakistan and Zimbabwe . Preview : The Pool B ICC Cricket World Cup match against Zimbabwe on Sunday is Pakistan 's big opportunity to set things right. From day one , parallels have been drawn between this edition and the one in 1992 when Pakistan went all the way despite a poor start. This time too , they have started off on the wrong foot following consecutive big defeats against India and West Indies. However , fans are hopeful that the team will do a repeat of what it did 23 years ago.Zimbabwe , who lost their matches against South Africa and West Indies , seem to be the right fodder for Pakistan. On paper , they are no match for Pakistan and the only hope they have is that the subcontinental team plays its worst cricket just like it did in the previous two matches . Date and start : March 1 , 2015 ; 9 am IST Venue : Woolloongabba , Brisbane Weather : It 's been forecasted to be partly cloudy with temperatures expected to vacillate between 21 and 31 degrees Celsius . Team News PakistanYounis Khan has come in for a lot of criticism due to a lack of contributions in the top order. Pakistan captain Misbah-ul-Haq may sit him out and bring in Sarfraz Ahmed whose better wicketkeeping skills than those of Umar Akmal will be another asset. Yasir Shah is also likely to return in place of Nasir Jamshed . Probable XI 1 Ahmed Shehzad , 2 Younis Khan/Sarfraz Ahmed , 3 Haris Sohail , 4 Misbah-ul-Haq ( capt ) , 5 Sohaib Maqsood , 6 Umar Akmal , 7 Shahid Afridi , 8 Wahab Riaz , 9 Yasir Shah , 10 Sohail Khan , 11 Mohammad Irfan.ZimbabweZimbabwe are unlikely to ring any changes. However , their batsmen will have to improve on their showing in the previous matches in light of the bouncy wicket at the Gabba . Probable XI : 1 Sikandar Raza , 2 Regis Chakabva , 3 Hamilton Masakadza , 4 Brendan Taylor ( wk ) , 5 Sean Williams , 6 Craig Ervine , 7 Stuart Matsikenyeri , 8 Elton Chigumbura ( capt ) , 9 Tinashe Panyangara , 10 Tendai Chatara , 11 Tafadzwa Kamungozi Players to watch out for : Without any doubt , Wahab Riaz has been Pakistan 's best bowler. Some chin music is certainly in store for the Zimbabwe batsmen on a pitch that brings out the best in fast bowlers. As for Zimbabwe , expect Brendan Taylor to get back among the runs. He has been average but if Zimbabwe are to surprise Pakistan , it 's of great importance that he hits the ground running . Quotes : The important lesson is never give up. That 's what you need to do as a player and as a team. That 's what Imran Khan usually says about 1992. Even when the team was in difficult times , they never gave up : Misbah on his team 's chances He [ Whatmore ] knows almost everyone on the team , so when it comes to strategies and stuff , it 's much better to have someone who has worked with Pakistan guys. So we 've got more information. We just have to go and execute our plans tomorrow : Chigumbura talking about the advantage coach Dav Whatmore , who has coached Pakistan in the past , brings to the teamStats and Trivia : 1.Zimbabwe have a poor record against Pakistan , winning three and losing 42. One match ended in a tie and one in no result.2.Zimbabwe 's last win against Pakistan came in August 2013 . Teams : Zimbabwe ( From ) : Regis Chakabva , Sikandar Raza , Hamilton Masakadza , Brendan Taylor ( w ) , Sean Williams , Craig Ervine , Stuart Matsikenyeri , Elton Chigumbura ( c ) , Tinashe Panyangara , Tendai Chatara , Tafadzwa Kamungozi , Prosper Utseya , Chamu Chibhabha , Solomon Mire , Tawanda Mupariwa Pakistan ( From ) : Ahmed Shehzad , Nasir Jamshed , Younis Khan , Haris Sohail , Misbah-ul-Haq ( c ) , Sohaib Maqsood , Umar Akmal ( w ) , Shahid Afridi , Wahab Riaz , Sohail Khan , Mohammad Irfan , Yasir Shah , Rahat Ali , Ehsan Adil , Sarfraz Ahmed Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
