Graphs So , that 's all we have for you from this game. Many thanks for your company. Tomorrow there 's a double-header coming your way , first up it will be Pakistan vs UAE and the second game is between Australia and Afghanistan. So do n't forget to follow the action right here. Until next time and on behalf of Sriram , Raju , Krishna , my co-commentators , Akshay , Ramakrishnan and Pradeep , this is Sidhant Maheshwari signing off. Take care folks ! See you tomorrow . @ cricketaakash : There should be a rule that does n't allow SA to bat first...400 is the new 250 for them while batting first . @ BrokenCricket : 400 is New 350 300 is New 250 Double Century is New 150 150 is New Century.. But England & Pakistan Still lives in Stone Age @ mohanstatsman : Last three of South Africa 's 400 + totals have come in just 44 days ! @ rgcricket : Only the second time in ODIs a side has won two consecutive matches by a margin of 200 runs. Australia did so in 2007 @ cricketaakash : Fastest to 5000 ODI runs , fastest to 20 ODI centuries...from someone who is n't even considered an ODI superstar. Hashim Amla take a bow ! Let 's have a look at some of the tweets from this game : de Villiers : 'It was a good game today. I am very happy with the performance. The nice thing about the batting display today was especially the fact that we did it our way. We are not following anyone else 's strategy. We followed our game plans and guys played exceptionally well upfront. It set it up nicely for the rest in the middle-order. There 's been a lot of hundreds over the last 12-18 months and it 's something we are very proud of. When they keep scoring centuries , we feel that it definitely helps in setting it up for the latter stages of the innings. Very proud of the way Hash ( Hashim Amla ) and Faf ( Faf du Plessis ) played today , exceptional partnership and that set it up nicely for us. Incredible , still the rock ( talking about Amla ) and he will always be the rock for us. He does this effortlessly , plays with a lot of class and his game plans are so set that whatever you do , he has always got an answer , it seems like it. Hopefully , his form can continue for the rest of the tour. Very much pleased will all the bowlers , we had a nice meeting yesterday chatting about how we are going to go about the rest of the tournament. The guys were very motivated for today , wanting to do well , wanted to pick up wickets and stay positive right throughout the innings. I saw every single bit of that today. It is very much a match-to-match basis decision ( talking about who to play at No. 7 ) . I am very comfortable with whatever balance we create and as long as I am comfortable and the team follows , everything will be alright. You always want your top 6-7 in good form , especially , I would say 6 , 7 , 8 win you a lot of pressure games in tournaments like this and they seem to be in really good form as well. Everyone that 's got an opportunity throughout this tournament seems to have done well. So , just a bit more of that and hopefully , we will do well in the next one as well. We will see how we go ( asked if he will bowl again in the next game ) , I go on my instinct. I very much did ( asked if he enjoyed when the umpire told him one bouncer for the over ) , that was actually my slower bouncer and I very much enjoyed it.' Porterfield : 'It was a difficult evening. Obviously , they came out and played very well. We got one early breakthrough and we would have liked a couple more , but once the lads got set on that deck , it was hard to claw back. You want to be taking your chances , but that 's part of cricket as well and you have to move on from that ( talking about the dropped catch of Amla when he was on 10 ) . All credit to him , he played very well , but , it is just one of those things. It was obviously a very good pitch and it was difficult to try and muster up those wickets. But the lads tried to squeeze as much as they could in the middle and put some kind of pressure on. We slowed them down a bit coming down at the last 10 with a couple of wickets , but we would have liked a few more earlier on. We were 4 down coming down after 10 and they bowled pretty well , if you 're 4 down after 10 chasing any score , you 're going to struggle , but all credit to the lower order where they stuck at it and fought it out there. Every game is a big game and obviously the game against Zimbabwe is a big game for us. So , we are looking to pick up 2 points.' Hashim Amla : 'Fortunately , we got off to a good start. Myself and Faf just got something going and then we started playing a few shots. We had wickets in hand , so we kind of had the luxury to do that. We just thought that let 's have a go and see what happens and thankfully it came off. And we have got a good batting line-up to come , they were n't really needed today , but that 's why it gave us time to do it at the top. The guys have been batting well , it was a good wicket and fortunately , we got some runs today. We do n't look too far ahead , it is always nice to win a game of cricket. No matter who you 're playing against , we are just grateful that we managed to go over the line today. Any hundred is a hundred ( when asked about how much it matters to be the fastest to 20 ODI tons ) , I am just glad to get some runs. It does n't matter how long it takes , but I am just glad to be getting some runs upfront , setting it up for the boys at the back end and those guys are quite dangerous there. They bowled exceptionally well , I was just glad that the one that flicked Quinny 's ( Quinton de Kock ) glove , did n't hit me in my teeth. Amazingly , it got stuck under my armpit. The guys bowled exceptionally well. Having a team four down chasing 400 , the writing was almost on the wall. But they maintained their good intensity throughout the game and fortunately , we walked away with a comfortable victory.' Hashim Amla is the Man of the Match for his 159 Earlier in the day , Amla and Faf du Plessis put on a record 2nd wicket partnership to help South Africa post their second successive 400-plus score on the board. Rossouw and Miller too made useful contributions towards the back end of the innings. But , it was Amla and Faf , who stole the show with marvellous hundreds. Overall , it was a thorough performance from the Proteas . It was a clinical display by the South African bowlers. Steyn was back to his fiery best and Abbott has made the most of the opportunities he has been given. Morkel kept it tight at one end but Tahir was a bit inconsistent today. ABD tried a few different options in Faf , Rossouw and himself. He also managed to pick up a wicket in his very first over . However , Balbirnie departed soon after reaching his maiden ODI fifty. Kevin O'Brien , who had played the waiting game until the batting powerplay , fell off the very first delivery of the powerplay. Dockrell and Sorensen prolonged the inevitable for a while. The pair added 31 runs for the 9th wicket before Morne came back and finished things off . It is a comprehensive win for South Africa , their second on the trot. Ireland 's run-chase never got going. Porterfield and Stirling played some delightful shots , but Steyn and Abbott sent them back in quick succession. Ed Joyce followed soon after. At one stage , they were reeling at 48/5 before Balbirnie and Kevin O'Brien added 81 runs for the sixth wicket. It was Ireland 's highest partnership against South Africa for any wicket . 44.6 M Morkel to Dockrell , out Bowled ! ! Morkel puts the final nail in the coffin. South Africa win by 201 runs. Coming back to the ball , it was fuller and on off , Dockrell backs away and wanted to go inside-out , he fails to lay bat onto it and the ball crashes into the top of off. The Proteas are delighted. The Irish and the South African players shake hands as they walk off the field. Dockrell b M Morkel 25 ( 57 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] M Morkel to Dockrell , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 44.5 M Morkel to Dockrell , 2 runs , back of a length delivery outside off , Dockrell backs away and looks to force it through the off-side , gets a thick outside edge that flies towards third man , Steyn slides to his left and stops the ball before the rope , the batsmen take two 44.4 M Morkel to Dockrell , no run , back of a length delivery on the pads , Dockrell clips it towads backward square leg 44.3 M Morkel to Dockrell , no run , back of a length delivery angling away outside off , Dockrell leaves it for the keeper 44.3 M Morkel to Dockrell , wide , down the leg-side , called as a wide by the umpire 44.2 M Morkel to Dockrell , FOUR , makes room for himself and forehands the pull off a short delivery to the cow corner fence , good shot from Dockrell 44.1 M Morkel to Dockrell , no run , continues from round the wicket , digs it in short and at the batsman , Dockrell hangs back and drops it to the on-side 43.6 Kyle Abbott to Andy McBrine , no run , short and wide outside off , McBrine flashes the cut , but the ball goes past the outside edge once again 43.5 Kyle Abbott to Andy McBrine , 2 runs , full and slightly wide outside off , McBrine opens the face of the bat and drives it towards deep backward point , the batsmen take a couple Two slips and two gullies in place for Abbott 43.4 Kyle Abbott to Andy McBrine , no run , back of a length delivery on off and middle , McBrine hops a little and defends 43.3 Kyle Abbott to Andy McBrine , no run , slightly wide outside off , McBrine goes after it trying to play the cut shot , but the ball goes past the outside edge 43.2 Kyle Abbott to Dockrell , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Dockrell jumps in the crease and runs it to the left of backward point , the batsmen take a single 43.1 Kyle Abbott to Dockrell , no run , angles this one on middle , Dockrell defends from the crease Andy McBrine , left handed bat , comes to the crease Kyle Abbott [ 7.0-0-18-4 ] is back into the attack 42.6 M Morkel to Sorensen , out Caught by de Kock ! ! Finally , the short ball has worked after so many tries. It was short and at the batsman , who was looking to fend it away. He was not in control and the ball lobs up off the handle of the bat. de Kock takes a very simple catch and Morkel is delighted. South Africa are just a wicket away from another thumping win. Sorensen c de Kock b M Morkel 22 ( 19 ) [ 4s-3 6s-1 ] M Morkel to Sorensen , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 42.5 M Morkel to Dockrell , 1 run , fuller and on the stumps , Dockrell works it towards deep mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat , the crowd applauds as 200 comes up for Ireland 42.4 M Morkel to Dockrell , no run , banged in short and at the batsman , who backs away and looks to cut it late , ca n't connect though Morkel comes round the wicket now. A FSL is in place now 42.3 M Morkel to Dockrell , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Dockrell was looking to force it through the off-side , but ends up punching it back to the bowler off the inside half of the bat 42.2 M Morkel to Dockrell , no run , just short of a good length and on the stumps , Dockrell pushes it towards cover 42.1 M Morkel to Dockrell , no run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Dockrell defends from the crease 41.6 Tahir to Dockrell , 1 run , comes down the track and looks to drive , mistimes it completely but the batsmen take a single as the ball dribbles away to long-off 41.5 Tahir to Sorensen , 1 run , touch quicker and on middle and leg , Sorensen works it towards mid-wicket , where a misfield from Steyn allows the batsmen to cross over 41.4 Tahir to Sorensen , SIX , this time he goes big , it was tossed up around off , Sorensen waits for it and launches it over the long-on fence for his first maximum 41.3 Tahir to Sorensen , FOUR , dropped ! It was a very tough chance though , it was floated up well outside off , Sorensen drills it to the right of the bowler , who gets a hand on it , but the ball rockets away to the fence in no time , good power on that one 41.2 Tahir to Dockrell , 1 run , gives the charge this time and lofts it towards sweeper cover , he did n't time it that well , the batsmen take a single 41.1 Tahir to Dockrell , no run , flatter and outside off , Dockrell cuts it straight to cover 40.6 M Morkel to Sorensen , no run , low full toss from Morkel , he was probably trying to bowl the yorker there , Sorensen pushes it into the on-side 40.5 M Morkel to Sorensen , no run , another short one on middle and leg , Sorensen hops and looks to fend it away , gets an inside edge onto the body 40.4 M Morkel to Sorensen , no run , banged in short and on the stumps , Sorensen jumps and defends 40.3 M Morkel to Dockrell , 1 run , run-out chance missed ! It was on a good length and around off , Dockrell drops it in front of cover and sets off , de Villiers picks the ball up and fires in the throw at the striker 's end , luckily for the batsmen , there was no direct-hit , otherwise he would have been a goner 40.3 M Morkel to Dockrell , wide , angling down leg , Dockrell fails to connect with the clip and this time umpire Martinesz got it right , calls it a wide 40.2 M Morkel to Dockrell , no run , short of length delivery on the stumps , Dockrell hops a little and defends it back on the track 40.1 M Morkel to Dockrell , no run , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Dockrell defends off the back foot Morne Morkel [ 6.0-0-24-1 ] is back into the attack The batting powerplay yielded 18/1 for Ireland 39.6 Tahir to Sorensen , no run , touch quicker and on off , Sorensen pushes it into the on-side 39.5 Tahir to Sorensen , FOUR , floated up around off , Sorensen leans forward and drives it towards cover , who dives to his right and takes the pace off the ball , however the ball still had enough to run away to the fence even though Phangiso from cover gave chase 39.4 Tahir to Sorensen , FOUR , good shot from Sorensen , it was floated up on middle , Sorensen clears his front leg and heaves it wide of mid-on , the ball runs away to the fence in no time 39.3 Tahir to Sorensen , no run , floated up around off , Sorensen drives it towards the bowler , who dives to his left , gets a hand on it and parries it towards cover 39.2 Tahir to Sorensen , no run , another quicker one on leg , Sorensen fails to clip it into the on-side , the ball goes behind square on the off-side off the pad , it was going down leg though 39.1 Tahir to Sorensen , no run , quicker and on the stumps , Sorensen works it towards mid-wicket Imran Tahir [ 8.0-1-29-0 ] is back into the attack 38.6 Steyn to Dockrell , no run , short delivery outside off , Dockrell has nothing to do with it 38.5 Steyn to Sorensen , 1 run , short and outside off , Sorensen dabs it down to third man in an awkward manner 38.4 Steyn to Sorensen , no run , that must have hurt ! It was banged in short and at the batsman , Sorensen was looking to get out of the way but could n't do so in time , the ball hits him bang on the left wrist and flies behind square on the on-side , it must have left a mark there 38.3 Steyn to Dockrell , 1 run , fullish delivery around off , Dockrell pushes it in front of mid-off , Dockrell takes off , de Villiers from mid-off runs forward , picks it up and fires in the throw at the striker 's end , the batsmen would have made it though 38.2 Steyn to Dockrell , 2 runs , dropped ! It was short and slightly wide outside off , Dockrell goes chasing after it and cuts it uppishly towards backward point , where Miller was diving to his right , he gets his hands on it , but ca n't take it. It should have been taken considering the kind of standards Miller and the rest of the South African fielders set for themselves 38.1 Steyn to Dockrell , no run , angling in on off , Dockrell gets behind the line and defends it 37.6 Kyle Abbott to Sorensen , 2 runs , bit of reverse swing for Abbott there as the ball shapes in from around off , Sorensen did well to get his bat down in time , he gets an inside edge that dribbles away behind square and before any fielder could get around , the batsmen take two 37.5 Kyle Abbott to Sorensen , no run , on a good length and outside off , Dockrell pokes at it away from his body , the ball goes past the outside edge 37.4 Kyle Abbott to Dockrell , 1 run , low full toss from Abbott , was probably trying the yorker there , Dockrell pushes it wide of mid-off and gets to the other end 37.3 Kyle Abbott to Dockrell , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Dockrell punches it towards point off the back foot 37.2 Kyle Abbott to Dockrell , no run , short delivery and well outside off , Dockrell leaves it alone 37.1 Kyle Abbott to Dockrell , no run , back of a length delivery on top of middle , Dockrell defends off the back foot 36.6 Steyn to Sorensen , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Sorensen opens the face of the bat and mistimes the punch in front of backward point , he was looking for the single there but the fielder was quick to run forward , pick the ball and has a shy at the striker 's end , the batsman made it in time though 36.5 Steyn to Dockrell , 1 run , touch fuller and around off this time , Dockrell pushes at it , the ball rolls away down to third man off the outside edge 36.4 Steyn to Dockrell , no run , another short one on top of off and middle , Dockrell hops and drops it into the off-side 36.3 Steyn to Dockrell , no run , banged in short and well outside off , Dockrell has nothing to do with it 36.2 Steyn to Dockrell , no run , just short of a good length and on off and middle , Dockrell defends it towards cover-point off the outside half of the bat 36.1 Steyn to Dockrell , no run , full outside off , Dockrell looks to drive away from his body , the ball goes past the outside edge and through to the keeper 35.6 Kyle Abbott to Sorensen , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Sorensen pushes it towards backward point 35.5 Kyle Abbott to Dockrell , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off , Dockrell jumps up in the crease and dabs it down to third man after opening the face of the bat 35.4 Kyle Abbott to Dockrell , no run , short delivery this time , Dockrell hops in the crease and drops his wrists on it 35.3 Kyle Abbott to Dockrell , no run , short of length delivery angling in on middle and leg , Dockrell defends it with his bat close to the pad 35.2 Kyle Abbott to Dockrell , no run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Dockrell punches it to cover off the back foot Max Sorensen , right handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now. It is only a matter of time before South Africa wrap it up. Things could have been worse for the Irish had O'Brien and Balbirnie not combined for a 81-run partnership. However , let 's see how they go about now. Abbott has taken 4 wickets in the innings and he will look to finish with a 5-wicket haul . 35.1 Kyle Abbott to K O'Brien , out Caught by Rossouw ! ! O'Brien throws it away , it was banged in short and at the batsman , O'Brien goes for the pull , but ca n't get the desired distance as the bat turns in his hand. It goes towards deep mid-wicket and the fielder there takes an easy catch. Ireland are 8 down now. K O'Brien c Rossouw b Kyle Abbott 48 ( 65 ) [ 4s-3 6s-1 ] Kyle Abbott to K O'Brien , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 35.1 Kyle Abbott to K O'Brien , wide , splays this one down leg first up , the umpire exercises his arms Kyle Abbott [ 5.0-0-13-3 ] is back into the attack Time for the batting powerplay. Abbott comes back into the attack . 34.6 Steyn to Dockrell , no run , just short of a good length and on off , Dockrell stays inside the crease and defends 34.5 Steyn to Dockrell , no run , how was that not a wide ? The crowd starts booing the umpire. It was down the leg-side , Dockrell ca n't nurdle it fine and the keeper collects , the umpire just did n't think that it was a wide and that was strange 34.4 Steyn to Dockrell , no run , touch fuller and just outside off , Dockrell was feeling for it with laden feet , but the ball goes past his blade , it was n't that far away from the off stump as well 34.3 Steyn to Dockrell , no run , banged in short and outside off , Dockrell is happy to leave it for the keeper 34.2 Steyn to K O'Brien , 1 run , on a good length and outside off , O'Brien was pushing at it , gets an outside edge that rolls away down to third man 34.1 Steyn to K O'Brien , 2 runs , fullish delivery around off , O'Brien was looking to work it through the leg-side , but closes the bat face a little too early , he gets a leading edge that goes to the left of cover , the batsmen take two before the fielder chases it down Dale Steyn [ 5.0-0-31-2 ] is back into the attack 33.6 Tahir to Dockrell , no run , touch quicker again and around off , Dockrell drives it to cover 33.5 Tahir to Dockrell , no run , quicker and on the stumps , Dockrell just about manages to bring his bat down in time to keep it out 33.4 Tahir to Dockrell , no run , pushed through outside off , Dockrell pushes at it , gets an outside edge that goes behind square on the off-side 33.3 Tahir to Dockrell , SIX , tossed up outside off , Dockrell dances down the track and lofts it inside-out over wide long-off , the ball goes all the way , good shot from Dockrell that 33.2 Tahir to Dockrell , no run , floated up outside off , Dockrell leans forward and drives it to mid-off 33.1 Tahir to Dockrell , no run , flatter and around off , Dockrell punches it towards cover , who dives to his left and stops the ball 32.6 de Villiers to Dockrell , 1 run , homing in around off and middle , Dockrell looks to push at it , the ball goes off the inside half of the bat to deep square leg 32.5 de Villiers to Dockrell , no run , bumper from de Villiers , the batsman is surprised , the umpire is surprised , Dockrell ducks and the umpire calls it one bouncer for the over 32.4 de Villiers to Dockrell , no run , length delivery around off , Dockrell shuffles across just a touch and pushes it to short mid-wicket 32.3 de Villiers to Dockrell , no run , just short of a good length and on top of off , Dockrell wrists it to short mid-wicket 32.2 de Villiers to K O'Brien , 1 run , short of length delivery on middle and leg , O'Brien short-arm pulls it to deep square leg for a single 32.1 de Villiers to K O'Brien , no run , on a good length and on middle , O'Brien pushes it down to mid-on 31.6 Tahir to Dockrell , no run , flighted delivery around off , Dockrell wrists it into the leg-side 31.5 Tahir to Dockrell , no run , slower through the air this time , Dockrell works it towards short mid-wicket 31.4 Tahir to Dockrell , no run , quicker and straighter this time , Dockrell defends from the crease 31.3 Tahir to Dockrell , no run , googly outside off , Dockrell hangs back and guides it to short third man 31.2 Tahir to Dockrell , no run , tossed up around off , Dockrell drives it to cover off the front foot 31.1 Tahir to Dockrell , no run , flatter on the stumps , Dockrell pushes it to cover 30.6 de Villiers to K O'Brien , no run , angling down leg , O'Brien fails to connect with the clip and overbalances a bit , de Kock took the bails off , but his back foot was in , not sure why the umpire did n't call it a wide though The third umpire has been called to check for a stumping chance. O'Brien is the man in question. He looks fine though. The decision will be 'Not Out' 30.5 de Villiers to K O'Brien , no run , was there an edge there ? de Villiers does n't think so. It was on a length and outside off , O'Brien looks to drive , but the ball goes past his outside edge , it was close though as de Kock appealed 30.4 de Villiers to K O'Brien , FOUR , that was a poor delivery from de Villiers , a short one that sits up nicely for O'Brien to rock back and pull it to the deep backward square leg fence 30.3 de Villiers to Dockrell , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Dockrell stays back , opens the face of the bat and punches it towards third man George Dockrell , right handed bat , comes to the crease 30.2 de Villiers to J Mooney , out Bowled ! ! de Villiers comes on and takes a wicket second ball. He is pumped up and punches the air in delight. It was short of length delivery angling away outside off , Mooney went chasing after it and looks to cut , but gets an inside edge that crashes into the off stump. Ireland are 7 down now. J Mooney b de Villiers 8 ( 15 ) de Villiers to J Mooney , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 30.1 de Villiers to J Mooney , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Mooney punches it towards mid-wicket , who moves to his right and stops the ball AB de Villiers , right-arm medium , comes into the attack Captain de Villiers will chance his arm with the ball now 29.6 Tahir to K O'Brien , no run , a googly to end the over , O'Brien wrists it to short mid-wicket 29.5 Tahir to K O'Brien , no run , leg-break outside off and turning away , O'Brien made room and was looking to go inside-out , does n't make a connection and was nowhere near it as well 29.4 Tahir to J Mooney , 1 run , on middle and leg , Mooney pushes it down to long-on 29.3 Tahir to K O'Brien , 1 run , quicker delivery just outside off , O'Brien leans forward and eases it down to long-off 29.2 Tahir to J Mooney , 1 run , gives the charge and works it towards deep mid-wicket 29.1 Tahir to K O'Brien , 1 run , 'catch ' was the shout as O'Brien comes down the track and lofts inside-out , the ball was in the air but there was no fielder at extra cover 28.6 du Plessis to J Mooney , no run , drifting onto the pads once again , Mooney goes deep in the crease and looks to tuck it away into the leg-side , but fails to lay bat on that , the ball hits him on the thigh pad 28.5 du Plessis to J Mooney , 2 runs , comes down the track and works this flighted delivery on leg behind square for a couple of runs 28.4 du Plessis to J Mooney , no run , touch flatter and just outside off , Mooney makes room and looks to cut , it was quicker as well , Mooney ca n't connect and it was n't too far away from the off stump 28.3 du Plessis to K O'Brien , 1 run , tossed up around off , O'Brien drives it to long-off and gets off strike 28.2 du Plessis to K O'Brien , 2 runs , floated up on off , O'Brien lofts it right over the bowler 's head and the batsmen take two before long-off cuts it off 28.1 du Plessis to K O'Brien , FOUR , loopy delivery from du Plessis , O'Brien comes down the track and converts it into a full toss , he lofts it over the fielder at cover and the ball runs away to the fence , there was no one in the deep on the cover boundary 27.6 Tahir to J Mooney , no run , goes for another reverse sweep to this flighted delivery around leg , he makes a mess of it as he gets a bottom edge onto the pad , the ball did n't even cross the pitch 27.5 Tahir to J Mooney , 2 runs , kneels down this time and scoops it towards the fine leg region , the batsmen take two before the ball is hunted down 27.4 Tahir to J Mooney , no run , slower leg-break turning in from middle and leg , Mooney fails to clip it into the on-side and wears it on his pad , snaking down leg for sure 27.3 Tahir to J Mooney , no run , in the blockhole this time , Mooney squeezes it out into the off-side 27.2 Tahir to J Mooney , no run , quicker and around off , Mooney defends from the crease 27.1 Tahir to J Mooney , no run , floated up outside off , Mooney goes for the reverse sweep , but fails to connect and wears it on the pad , the impact was well outside off though Imran Tahir [ 4.0-0-17-0 ] is back into the attack 26.6 du Plessis to K O'Brien , no run , flatter and quicker , O'Brien was looking to cut it , but was a little late on that and was cramped for room , he ends up chopping it to the left of the bowler 26.5 du Plessis to J Mooney , 1 run , Mooney hangs back and looks to play the scoop , de Kock was moving to his right to try and take the catch if possible , but Mooney does n't get it right and the ball goes right over him , the batsmen take a single as the ball rolls away behind 26.4 du Plessis to K O'Brien , 1 run , pushed through on middle and leg , O'Brien pushes at it , the ball rolls away behind square on the on-side off the inside half of the bat 26.3 du Plessis to K O'Brien , 2 runs , floated up this time , O'Brien gives the charge and lofts it over the bowler and to the right of long-off , the batsmen take a couple before the fielder from long-off gets across 26.2 du Plessis to K O'Brien , no run , short and just outside off , O'Brien backs away a touch and cuts , he picks out cover 26.1 du Plessis to J Mooney , 1 run , flatter outside off , Mooney works it past mid-wicket for a single 25.6 M Morkel to K O'Brien , no run , angling in from around off , O'Brien fails to clip it into the on-side and wears it on the pad , there was an appeal from the South African players , but the impact was too high 25.6 M Morkel to K O'Brien , wide , another short one outside off but this time it is too high , O'Brien ducks and the umpire calls it a a wide John Mooney , left handed bat , comes to the crease 25.5 M Morkel to Balbirnie , out Caught by Rossouw ! ! Balbirnie falls after a fighting fifty. The umpires check for Morkel 's front foot , but it is fine. It was banged in short , Balbirnie drags the pull from outside off and the fielder at deep square leg takes a rather simple catch. End of a good stand between him and O'Brien. Balbirnie c Rossouw b M Morkel 58 ( 71 ) [ 4s-7 ] M Morkel to Balbirnie , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 25.4 M Morkel to Balbirnie , FOUR , just short of good length and outside off , Balbirnie hangs back and punches it towards deep extra cover , Amla from sweeper cover runs to his right , slides and tries to pull the ball back in , but the ball trickles away to the fence 25.3 M Morkel to K O'Brien , 1 run , on middle stump line , O'Brien shuffles across just a touch and flicks it in the air , the ball goes on the bounce to deep square leg 25.2 M Morkel to K O'Brien , no run , on a good length and angling in on off and middle , O'Brien wrists it down to mid-on 25.1 M Morkel to K O'Brien , no run , banged in short and at the batsman , O'Brien ducks and lets it pass 24.6 du Plessis to Balbirnie , no run , knocks it back to the bowler 24.5 du Plessis to K O'Brien , 1 run , flatter and on off , O'Brien backs away and punches it to deep extra cover 24.4 du Plessis to K O'Brien , SIX , flighted on off , O'Brien clears his front leg and heaves it towards cow corner , ABD runs to his right from long-on , dives like a Superman but the ball is too far from him. The ball has enough to clear the fence. Slight delay in play as the umpire checks whether it was a four or a six. Replays confirm that it was a six 24.3 du Plessis to Balbirnie , 1 run , quicker and on the stumps , Balbirnie swipes it behind square leg , had he missed that , it would have been dead in front of middle 24.2 du Plessis to K O'Brien , 1 run , nice loopy delivery , O'Brien drives off the inside half to long-on 24.1 du Plessis to K O'Brien , no run , flighted on off , O'Brien mishits the drive back to the bowler 23.6 M Morkel to Balbirnie , no run , good length ball on the stumps , Balbirnie knocks it to mid-on 23.5 M Morkel to Balbirnie , FOUR , superb shot ! Nice way to bring up a maiden ODI fifty. The length is short and just outside off , Balbirnie stands tall and punches it past a diving point fielder , Amla gives chase in vain 23.4 M Morkel to Balbirnie , FOUR , streaky ! Morne follows the batsman who was giving himself some room , steers it in the air , it was in the air , but just wide of Faf , who is standing at a wide slip position. No chance for the third man fielder to cut that off 23.3 M Morkel to Balbirnie , no run , shortens the length around off , Balbirnie punches it gently towards point 23.2 M Morkel to Balbirnie , no run , lifter on off , Balbirnie sways away from the line of the delivery , the Giraffe went down in his followthrough 23.1 M Morkel to Balbirnie , no run , back of a length on the fourth stump , Balbirnie guides it to backward point with an open bat face Morne Morkel [ 4.0-0-10-0 ] is back into the attack 22.6 du Plessis to K O'Brien , no run , fraction short and just outside off , O'Brien cuts and picks out the point fielder 22.5 du Plessis to Balbirnie , 1 run , pushed through on the stumps , Balbirnie punches it to long-on 22.4 du Plessis to K O'Brien , leg byes , 1 run , slider on leg-stump , O'Brien ca n't lay bat on the glance , the ball brushes the pad and rolls towards short fine 22.3 du Plessis to Balbirnie , 1 run , flatter and just outside off , Balbirnie punches it to sweeper cover 22.2 du Plessis to Balbirnie , no run , quicker and close to off , Balbirnie dabs it in front of backward point 22.1 du Plessis to Balbirnie , no run , nurdled to backward square , finds the fielder there 22.1 du Plessis to Balbirnie , 5 wides , poor first up delivery from Faf , darted down the leg-side , Balbirnie misses the sweep , QdK does n't gather the ball as he was blinded by the batsman Faf du Plessis , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 21.6 Rossouw to Balbirnie , 3 runs , throws this up outside off , goes straight on , Balbirnie drives and gets an outside edge through the vacant slip region , Morne runs behind the ball and hauls it in just before the rope 21.5 Rossouw to K O'Brien , 1 run , gives this bit more air , O'Brien milks it square of the wicket on the on-side 21.4 Rossouw to Balbirnie , 1 run , short and on the stumps , Balbirnie pulls it to deep mid-wicket , picks out the fielder there 21.3 Rossouw to K O'Brien , 1 run , leans forward and works it with the turn behind square on the leg-side 21.2 Rossouw to Balbirnie , 1 run , drags the length back , Balbirnie pulls it to long leg for a single 21.1 Rossouw to K O'Brien , 1 run , steps out of the crease and chips it to long-off 20.6 Tahir to K O'Brien , 1 run , floated up close to off , O'Brien backs away and drives it inside out to long-off 20.5 Tahir to Balbirnie , 1 run , wrong 'un on middle and leg , Balbirnie nurdles it to deep backward square leg 20.4 Tahir to K O'Brien , leg byes , 1 run , slider on leg-stump , O'Brien misses the nudge and the ball dribbles behind square on the leg-side after clipping the pad 20.3 Tahir to Balbirnie , 1 run , straight roller on off , Balbirnie defends and the ball squirts off the inside edge to deep square leg 20.2 Tahir to Balbirnie , no run , googly close to off , Balbirnie looks to force it through the off-side , is beaten by the extra bounce 20.1 Tahir to Balbirnie , no run , throws this up just outside off , Balbirnie watches it go into QdK 's gloves 19.6 Rossouw to K O'Brien , no run , closes his bat face a little early and gets a soft leading edge back to the bowler 19.5 Rossouw to K O'Brien , 2 runs , slower and drops it short , O'Brien makes room and punches it in the air wide of extra cover , Phangiso runs to his left from long-off and keeps it down to a couple 19.4 Rossouw to Balbirnie , 1 run , punched down to long-on for a single 19.3 Rossouw to K O'Brien , 1 run , helps it on the way to deep square leg 19.2 Rossouw to K O'Brien , no run , stifled appeal for lbw , but umpire Davis remains unmoved. Touch short , O'Brien goes for the pull , misses and is rapped on the pads. The ball was turning down leg 19.1 Rossouw to Balbirnie , 1 run , flighted on off , Balbirnie eases it off the back foot between the bowler and short mid-wicket , Rossouw runs across , dives but ca n't stop the ball Rilee Rossouw , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 18.6 Tahir to K O'Brien , no run , googly to end the over , O'Brien presses forward and defends 18.5 Tahir to Balbirnie , 1 run , floated up on off , Balbirnie drives it to long-off and gets to the other end 18.4 Tahir to Balbirnie , no run , slows this up and gets a bit of extra bounce , Balbirnie kneels down and misses the sweep , he was done in by the bounce there 18.3 Tahir to Balbirnie , no run , opens the bat face and guides it to backward point 18.2 Tahir to Balbirnie , no run , slider on off , Balbirnie moves to the leg-side and punches it to cover 18.1 Tahir to Balbirnie , no run , the wrong 'un around off , Balbirnie leans forward and blocks 17.6 Behardien to K O'Brien , FOUR , fraction short and outside off , O'Brien cuts and gets a thick outside edge to third man , Morne had to run a long way , he gets there , puts in the slide but ca n't prevent the boundary 17.5 Behardien to Balbirnie , 1 run , back of a length on middle , Balbirnie punches it to long-on for a single 17.4 Behardien to K O'Brien , 1 run , pitched up on and off , O'Brien drives it down to long-on 17.3 Behardien to K O'Brien , no run , fuller and on off , O'Brien presents a straight bat and knocks it back to the bowler 17.2 Behardien to Balbirnie , 1 run , good length ball outside off , driven away to sweeper cover 17.1 Behardien to Balbirnie , 2 runs , too straight , Balbirnie nurdles it to deep backward square leg for a brace 16.6 Tahir to K O'Brien , no run , presses forward and blocks it to the on-side 16.5 Tahir to K O'Brien , no run , plays it around his pads , works it to backward square , straight to the fielder 16.4 Tahir to K O'Brien , 2 runs , Tahir was excited as the ball ballooned off the top-edge , it just about evaded Phangiso at backward square , he runs back and keeps it down to a couple. O'Brien did not connect well with the sweep 16.3 Tahir to K O'Brien , no run , googly on off , O'Brien pushes it to cover 16.2 Tahir to Balbirnie , 1 run , tossed up on off , Balbirnie drives it to long-off 16.1 Tahir to Balbirnie , FOUR , poor delivery from Tahir , nice juicy full toss on off and middle , Balbirnie says thank you very much and puts it away. Bends his front knee and heaves it behing square for a boundary Time for some drinks ! It has been all South Africa so far. Steyn bowled a fiery first spell , he managed to scalp two wickets. Abbott continued to impress as he picked up three. Morne has been economical at one end. These two have to get Ireland to a respectable score , else it will be an embarrassing defeat . 15.6 Behardien to Balbirnie , 1 run , fullish and on off , Balbirnie knocks it towards mid-off and scampers across for a quick single 15.5 Behardien to Balbirnie , no run , back of a length close to off , Balbirnie punches it gently to cover 15.4 Behardien to K O'Brien , 1 run , drags the length back , O'Brien steers it wide of backward point 15.3 Behardien to Balbirnie , 1 run , eased down to long-on for a single 15.2 Behardien to Balbirnie , no run , QdK shouts " catch " , but Behardien was not able to. It will go down as a dropped chance. Fuller and just outside off , Balbirnie push-drives it in the air to the left of the bowler , Behardien gets a finger on it , but ca n't hold on 15.1 Behardien to K O'Brien , 1 run , on a length just outside off , O'Brien drives it to sweeper cover Farhaan Behardien , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 14.6 Tahir to Balbirnie , no run , flighted just outside off , Balbirnie goes on his knee and misses the sweep this time. It was cleverly bowled by Tahir as he threw it up wide of off 14.5 Tahir to Balbirnie , FOUR , bit too full from Tahir , kneels down and sweeps it behind square leg. That came right off the meat as the ball raced away to the fence 14.4 Tahir to K O'Brien , leg byes , 1 run , the wrong 'un , turning in , O'Brien misses the nudge and the ball brushes the pad and rolls to short fine 14.3 Tahir to K O'Brien , no run , slower and on off , O'Brien knocks it back down the wicket 14.2 Tahir to Balbirnie , 1 run , googly just outside off , Balbirnie eases the drive to long-off 14.1 Tahir to K O'Brien , 1 run , starts with a full toss , O'Brien drives it down to long-on Imran Tahir , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 13.6 M Morkel to Balbirnie , no run , shortens the length on off , Balbirnie defends solidly off the back foot 13.5 M Morkel to Balbirnie , no run , on a length just outside off , Balbirnie stands tall and punches it on-the-up , it was in the air and drops it in front of ABD , who was standing at a widish mid-off position. He did well to get his body behind and field the ball 13.4 M Morkel to Balbirnie , no run , shortish and just outside off , Balbirnie chops it towards point 13.3 M Morkel to Balbirnie , no run , targets the stumps , Balbirnie plays around his pads , knocks it to mid-on 13.2 M Morkel to K O'Brien , 1 run , low full toss on the stumps , it was the attempted yorker , O'Brien clips it to the right of mid-on 13.1 M Morkel to K O'Brien , no run , banged in halfway down the wicket , O'Brien was shaping to play the pull , but decides against it as it was well wide of off 12.6 Steyn to K O'Brien , 1 run , direct hit and O'Brien would have been on his way back to the hut. Short of a length around off , O'Brien taps it to the right of point and sets off , Miller gets across and has a shy at the non-striker 's end , but he has failed to hit the target 12.5 Steyn to K O'Brien , no run , another bumper , O'Brien sits down and the ball hits his left shoulder and goes to the left of the keeper , QdK dives full length and gathers the ball 12.4 Steyn to K O'Brien , no run , that kept a bit low , O'Brien goes for the back foot punch , the ball sneaks through under his bat. O'Brien has a look at the pitch 12.3 Steyn to K O'Brien , no run , back of a length on off , defended down the wicket 12.2 Steyn to K O'Brien , no run , bouncer on off , O'Brien ducks and allows the ball to sail over him 12.1 Steyn to Balbirnie , 1 run , length ball outside off , Balbirnie slashes and gets it off the outer half to third man Dale Steyn [ 4.0-0-29-2 ] is back into the attack 11.6 M Morkel to K O'Brien , no run , short of length on off , bunted in front of backward point , the call is " no " for the single 11.5 M Morkel to K O'Brien , no run , short delivery outside off , jags away after passing the batsman , QdK dives to his right and collects the ball 11.4 M Morkel to K O'Brien , no run , keeps it back of a length , O'Brien stays in the crease and knocks it to point Two slips and a gully in place for O'Brien. . 11.3 M Morkel to Balbirnie , 1 run , short on middle and leg , Balbirnie gets inside the line and helps it down to fine leg 11.2 M Morkel to Balbirnie , 2 runs , back of a length just outside off , Balbirnie glides it to the right of third man and scampers back for the second There is a fielder at deep square leg and a fielder at short square leg. Can expect some short stuff from Morne . 11.1 M Morkel to Balbirnie , no run , shortish and on off , Balbirnie fends it with loose hands to backward point 10.6 Kyle Abbott to K O'Brien , no run , pitched up just outside off , O'Brien drives and finds mid-off 10.5 Kyle Abbott to K O'Brien , no run , full on off and middle , O'Brien turns it gently towards mid-wicket 10.4 Kyle Abbott to K O'Brien , no run , O'Brien was put off as Balbirnie dropped his bat at the non-striker 's end just when Abbott delivered the ball. It was back of a length around off , O'Brien blocks it to the off-side. He has a smile at the end of it all 10.3 Kyle Abbott to K O'Brien , no run , back of a length close to off , O'Brien gets behind the line and defends to cover Kevin O'Brien , right handed bat , comes to the crease 10.2 Kyle Abbott to G Wilson , out Lbw ! ! That looked plumb. Wilson had a chat with his partner , Balbirnie told him that it looked out. He does n't review and makes the long walk back to the pavilion. Nip-backer from a length , Wilson stays rooted to the crease and is struck on the knee-roll. The impact was on middle stump and would have crashed into the stumps. Ireland have lost half their side and have still not reached 50. G Wilson lbw b Kyle Abbott 0 ( 3 ) Kyle Abbott to G Wilson , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Wilson is given OUT lbw ! He is not reviewing it . 10.1 Kyle Abbott to Balbirnie , 1 run , shortens the length around off , Balbirnie steers it down to third man with an angled bat 9.6 M Morkel to Balbirnie , 1 run , strays onto Balbirnie 's pads , whipped away to fine leg 9.5 M Morkel to Balbirnie , no run , good comeback delivery from the Giraffe , back of a length and around off , gets it to hold its line , Balbirnie pokes at it and is beaten all ends up 9.4 M Morkel to Balbirnie , FOUR , short delivery from Morne , sat up nicely for Balbirnie , he swivels on the back foot and pulls it in front of square , ball bounces couple of times before reaching the fence 9.3 M Morkel to Balbirnie , no run , good length ball on middle , Balbirnie shuffles across and knocks it to mid-on 9.2 M Morkel to Balbirnie , no run , short of length on off , Balbirnie goes back and across , blocks it towards cover 9.1 M Morkel to Balbirnie , no run , plenty of width on this , Balbirnie cuts and misses , it is too far for him to reach 8.6 Kyle Abbott to G Wilson , no run , short of length around off , Wilson gets right behind the line and blocks 8.5 Kyle Abbott to G Wilson , no run , too straight , on middle and leg , Wilson fails to nail the flick , the ball hits him high on the pad and drops down on the wicket Gary Wilson , right handed bat , comes to the crease 8.4 Kyle Abbott to N O'Brien , out Caught by Amla ! ! Amla got lucky there. O'Brien the latest to bite the dust. It was shortish and outside off , O'Brien flashes a cut and edges it to the left of the keeper , QdK goes for it with one hand , the ball hits the gloves and deflects straight into Amla 's midriff , he managed to clasp his hands and cling onto it. QdK was a relieved man when he saw Amla hanging onto the ball. N O'Brien c Amla b Kyle Abbott 14 ( 9 ) [ 4s-2 ] Kyle Abbott to N O'Brien , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 8.3 Kyle Abbott to N O'Brien , FOUR , lovely shot ! Digs it in midway down the wicket , O'Brien swivels and pulls it over square leg , his front leg was in the air while playing that. It was a superb shot 8.2 Kyle Abbott to Balbirnie , 1 run , again , the line is bit too straight , nurdled away behind square leg for a single 8.1 Kyle Abbott to Balbirnie , no run , length ball on the stumps , Balbirnie turns it towards square leg Kyle Abbott [ 3.0-0-7-1 ] is back into the attack 7.6 M Morkel to Balbirnie , 1 run , in the air and safe ! Short delivery right at the batsman , Balbirnie was in no position to play the pull , plays it rather awkwardly , the ball balloons over square leg , Behardien back pedals , puts his right hand up but ca n't reach it. That would have been a stunner had he hung onto it 7.5 M Morkel to Balbirnie , no run , again , Balbirnie goes chasing at a wide one outside off , is nowhere close to the ball 7.4 M Morkel to Balbirnie , no run , another mishit from the bat off Balbirnie , it was back of a length just outside off , Balbirnie toe-ends the pull towards mid-on 7.3 M Morkel to Balbirnie , no run , keeps it on his favorite length , that is short , Balbirnie pokes and is lucky not to have nicked it 7.2 M Morkel to Balbirnie , no run , not all that short , Balbirnie pulls and mistimes it completely , picks out square leg 7.1 M Morkel to Balbirnie , no run , back of a length on off , Balbirnie defends with soft hands to cover Morne Morkel , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 6.6 Steyn to N O'Brien , no run , bouncer on middle and off , O'Brien sways away from the line of the delivery. He seems to be up for the challenge 6.5 Steyn to N O'Brien , 2 runs , typical fast bowlers ' response after being hit for a boundary. Well directed short delivery , O'Brien goes for the pull , the top-edge flies to fine leg , Tahir was very square and had no chance of getting to that . 6.4 Steyn to N O'Brien , FOUR , top shot ! 142kph short of length delivery around off , O'Brien stays leg-side of the ball and punches it through the vacant cover region. The pace of Steyn took it to the fence 6.3 Steyn to N O'Brien , 2 runs , banged in halfway down the wicket , O'Brien pulls it over square leg with one leg in the air , no timing and the ball slows down after clearing the infield 6.2 Steyn to Balbirnie , 1 run , fullish and outside off , Balbirnie goes hard on the drive , the outside edge flies down to third man 6.1 Steyn to N O'Brien , 1 run , drifts onto O'Brien 's pads , flicked away to fine leg 5.6 Kyle Abbott to Balbirnie , no run , peach ! A beauty to end the over. Angled in at back of a length , straightens a touch , Balbirnie hangs back and plays for the angle , is beaten comprehensively 5.5 Kyle Abbott to Balbirnie , no run , teasing delivery from Abbott , full and well wide of off , Balbirnie goes chasing after it , the ball beats the outside edge. Not the best of shots at this stage of the innings 5.4 Kyle Abbott to Balbirnie , no run , back of a length on the fourth stump , Balbirnie steers it to the left of backward point , diving stop by Miller 5.3 Kyle Abbott to Balbirnie , no run , attacks the stumps , Balbirnie stays beside the line and bunts it to cover 5.2 Kyle Abbott to N O'Brien , 1 run , strays onto the pads , O'Brien stays in the crease and nurdles it to fine leg 5.1 Kyle Abbott to N O'Brien , no run , short of length around off , O'Brien opens the bat face and guides it towards backward point , the fielder dives to his right and fields the ball 4.6 Steyn to Balbirnie , no run , lifter on the stumps , Balbirnie sinks under it and lets it pass. End of a fiery over from Steyn ! 4.5 Steyn to Balbirnie , FOUR , the attempted yorker goes wrong , ends up as a full toss on leg-stump , Balbirnie stays in the crease and puts it away , flicked square of the wicket and the ball has enough to reach the fence 4.4 Steyn to Balbirnie , no run , short of length around off , Balbirnie hangs his bat away from the body , the ball whizzes past the outside edge. Good carry through to QdK Andrew Balbirnie , right handed bat , comes to the crease 4.3 Steyn to Ed Joyce , out Caught by Amla ! ! Ireland are falling apart in the run-chase. They have lost their third wicket in a space of 11 balls. Fullish and angled across off , Joyce drives with laden feet , the outside edge is induced and the ball flies to first slip , Amla took it calmly. This was bowled at 146kph. He softened him up with the short delivery off the previous ball. Ed Joyce c Amla b Steyn 0 ( 4 ) Steyn to Ed Joyce , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 4.2 Steyn to Ed Joyce , no run , bouncer just outside off , Joyce brings his head down and allows the ball to climb over him 4.1 Steyn to Ed Joyce , no run , back of a length around off , Joyce dabs it towards backward point Niall O'Brien , left handed bat , comes to the crease 3.6 Kyle Abbott to Porterfield , out Caught by du Plessis ! ! That is a superb catch. It was similar to the one that Joyce put down in the South African innings off Amla , but Faf has held onto this. Full and on the pads , Porterfield leans forward and flicks , does n't manage to keep it down , Faf standing at short mid-wicket , reacts quickly and snaffles a good low catch to his left. Ireland in trouble now. Porterfield c du Plessis b Kyle Abbott 12 ( 17 ) [ 4s-2 ] Kyle Abbott to Porterfield , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 3.5 Kyle Abbott to Porterfield , no run , Rossouw saved some runs there , good length ball outside off , Porterfield comes forward and drives it towards cover , Rossouw dives to his left and stops the ball 3.4 Kyle Abbott to Porterfield , no run , shortens the length around off , Porterfield checks his back foot defence , knocks it to mid-off 3.3 Kyle Abbott to Porterfield , FOUR , " catch " shouted Abbott , but it was well wide of Steyn. Short and on leg-stump , Porterfield swivels and pulls , the ball was in the air and to the right of short fine , Steyn dived full length but could n't get there 3.2 Kyle Abbott to Porterfield , no run , back of a length and outside off , Porterfield watches it sail past him 3.1 Kyle Abbott to Porterfield , no run , on a length just outside off , Porterfield goes for the on-the-up drive , the ball holds its line and beats the inside edge of the bat 2.6 Steyn to Ed Joyce , no run , welcomes the new batsman with a bumper , it was on the stumps as well , Joyce ducks and evades it comfortably Ed Joyce , left handed bat , comes to the crease 2.5 Steyn to Stirling , out Caught by de Kock ! ! It was a peach of a delivery. Actually , Stirling had started to walk , but stood his ground as umpire Martinesz did n't raise his finger. South Africa reviewed it immediately and got it in their favor. It was short of length and shaping away just outside off , Stirling has a feel for it away from the body , the outside edge carries at a good height to QdK. The Snicko showed a big spike and the decision was overruled. Stirling c de Kock b Steyn 9 ( 6 ) [ 4s-2 ] Steyn to Stirling , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! South Africa go up for a caught behind appeal and are reviewing it. Steyn is fine with his front foot , it is a legal delivery. Clear outside edge. But , umpire Martinesz did n't pick it up for the second time in the game. There is a massive spike on the Snicko. This will be overturned. Stirling is OUT ! 2.4 Steyn to Porterfield , 1 run , the length is on the shorter side , Porterfield stays in the crease and dabs it to third man 2.3 Steyn to Stirling , 1 run , goes hard at this back of a length delivery , the thickish outside edge runs down to third man 2.2 Steyn to Stirling , FOUR , this is even better , Stirling used his power this time. Plenty of room on this short of length delivery , Stirling frees his arms and crashes it between cover and point , the ball reached the fence in no time 2.1 Steyn to Stirling , FOUR , lovely shot ! Stirling too opens his account with a superb boundary. Back of a length outside off , Stirling stands tall and punches it through cover-point. The timing was exquisite on that 1.6 Kyle Abbott to Porterfield , no run , back of a length angled across the left-hander , Porterfield pulls and misses , the ball goes under his bat Coming back to the LBW appeal , Porterfield got a bit of wood and that is what saved him. Good spot from umpire Davis. And even better by South Africa for not reviewing it . 1.5 Kyle Abbott to Porterfield , no run , short of length around off , Porterfield punches it to cover 1.4 Kyle Abbott to Porterfield , no run , full and on the pads , Porterfield clips and picks out square leg 1.3 Kyle Abbott to Porterfield , no run , huge shout for lbw , but umpire Davis shakes his head and says not-out. It looked very close. Pitched on middle and leg , Porterfield misses the flick and is struck in front of leg-stump. The Hawk-Eye shows that the ball was hitting leg-stump , South Africa do n't review and Porterfield survives 1.2 Kyle Abbott to Porterfield , no run , better from Abbott , in and around the off-stump , Porterfield covers his sticks and shoulders arms 1.1 Kyle Abbott to Porterfield , 2 runs , starts with a bit of width outside off , Porterfield crunches it to cover , Rossouw fumbles and the batsmen come back for two before the ball is hunted down Kyle Abbott , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Steyn to Stirling , no run , back of a length close to off , Stirling gets right behind the line and blocks solidly to cover 0.5 Steyn to Stirling , no run , good length ball on off , Stirling presses forward and defends it to mid-off Two slips in place. . 0.4 Steyn to Porterfield , 1 run , holds the line back slightly , Porterfield stays back and gets a thickish edge towards third man 0.3 Steyn to Porterfield , FOUR , gorgeous shot ! Nice way to get off the mark. Pitched up just outside off , Porterfield gets a good stride forward and caresses the drive , places it between extra cover and mid-off. The sweet timing takes it to the fence 0.2 Steyn to Porterfield , no run , fullish and on off , Porterfield push-drives it to mid-off , no real timing on that 0.1 Steyn to Porterfield , no run , good length ball close to the off-stump , Porterfield watches it carfeully and lets it go through to the keeper Porterfield and Stirling are at the crease. Porterfield is on strike. Steyn will open the attack Welcome back.. Ireland have chased down targets of over 280 in their previous two matches. But , this is 400-plus and a more accomplished bowling attack. Can they get anywhere close to this target ? We 'll find out soon as Steyn steams in . Faf : " We did the basics really well again today and that 's what we want to do as a top order. We want to lay the foundation for the guys at the end to have some fun. So , once again , really proud of the boys. It was nice ( to bat ) , obviously hard work up front to get us into position and then when you do get into position , you try and have some fun as well. So nice to do it with Hash ( Amla ) today. It ( pitch ) looked a little bit better today and especially , we know as a batting unit we 've got some really big power-hitters. Obviously Ireland , from a bowling point of view at the death , not very experienced. So we knew if we get into position to dominate , we could hurt them. Luckily today , it came off. It 's great to bat with Hash ( Amla ) , he 's such an experienced guy , the best thing about him is the coversion rate. When he gets to 50 , so many times he gets to 100. So for guys like myself , it 's good to learn from that and then try and be half as good as that. " For Ireland , Mooney started the proceedings on a good note. In his first 5 overs , he picked up a wicket and just gave away 9 runs. However , during the final stages of the innings , he was smashed all around and went for 43 off just 2 overs in his second spell. George Dockrell was the only bowler , who gave away less than 6 runs an over. Apart from him , the South Africans took a toll of the other bowlers , especially Sorensen and Kevin O'Brien. Sorensen gave away 76 in his 6 and O'Brien also conceded 95 runs in his 7 overs as well. It is going to be extremely difficult for Ireland to chase this down. But , we have seen funnier things happen in cricket. Join us in a short while to follow the run-chase . du Plessis was deceived by a yorker from Kevin O'Brien and de Villiers came out to bat after him. He started off in his usual manner , racing away to 22 off just 7 balls. However , Andy McBrine sent both Amla and de Villiers back in a space of 3 balls to halt the South African onslaught. After that Miller and Rossouw took the onus of going after the bowling. Both of them thrashed the Irish bowlers to all parts of the park and helped their team go past 400 , becoming the first team to score 400 in consecutive games. Both of them finished unbeaten , with Rossouw bringing up his 3rd ODI fifty just before the end of the innings as South Africa recorded the second highest score in World Cup history . South Africa did n't get off to the best of starts , with de Kock failing one more time. Ever since he has come back from injury , he has struggled to get going with the bat. However , like the last game , Hashim Amla and Faf du Plessis got together and steadied the ship from there on. Their rotation of strike was great and they made sure that the Irish could n't bog them down , dispatching the loose ones to the fence. Both of them were together from the 3rd over till the 39th and put on 247 runs for the second wicket. In the process , Hashim Amla ( 108 innings ) became the fastest man to reach 20 ODI hundreds , going past Virat Kohli. du Plessis also soon reached his ton and both of them then tried to accelerate . 49.6 K O'Brien to D Miller , FOUR , it 's another edge past the stumps and O'Brien is a frustrated man. Full and outside off stump , Miller swings hard , gets an inside edge , the ball escapes past the off stump and runs away to the boundary. 24 runs came off that over. South Africa have scored 40 runs off the last two overs 49.5 K O'Brien to Rossouw , 1 run , widish yorker outside off stump , driven to long-off 49.4 K O'Brien to Rossouw , FOUR , oh that 's unlucky for the bowler. Full and wide outside off stump , Rossouw reaches out to squeeze the ball , it goes off the toe-end of the bat and goes fine to the third man boundary 49.3 K O'Brien to Rossouw , SIX , South Africa are the first team to score 400 in consecutive ODIs. Full and on the leg stump , Rossouw slogs it hard over mid-wicket and it 's gone all the way. This is brilliant batting from Rossouw 49.2 K O'Brien to D Miller , 3 runs , that 's a bottom edge and it 's beaten the keeper 's dive to his right. Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Miller goes for the slog again , but gets a thick edge , the fielder at short fine leg gives chase and saves one with a slide in the deep 49.1 K O'Brien to D Miller , SIX , surely , 400 is a possibility now ! Kev offers a juicy full ball , in the slot , Miller waits for it to come and slogs it very high over the mid-wicket boundary Kevin O'Brien [ 6.0-0-71-1 ] is back into the attack 48.6 Sorensen to Rossouw , 2 runs , yorker outside off stump , Rossouw drills it to long-on and gets to his third ODI fifty. Back-to-back fifties for Rossouw in this World Cup 48.6 Sorensen to Rossouw , no ball , FOUR , that 's a high full toss above waist height. Actually , it was a marginal call but the umpire did n't like it. Rossouw smashes it hard and sends it over extra-cover 48.5 Sorensen to Rossouw , no run , Rossouw gets down on one knee to paddle this fine , but toe-ends it back to the bowler 48.4 Sorensen to D Miller , byes , 1 run , a high full toss outside off stump , Miller gets across the stumps and tried to help it away to fine leg , but misses. The keeper fumbles to allow the run 48.3 Sorensen to D Miller , FOUR , that 's a powerful blow ! Slower ball outside off stump , it was very full , but Miller has smashed that hard over extra-cover and it bounces just inside the boundary line 48.2 Sorensen to D Miller , FOUR , Sorensen misses the yorker , it goes full and in the slot , Miller slogs it wide of the man at mid-wicket and long-on had no chance 48.1 Sorensen to D Miller , no run , fine yorker outside off stump , Miller digs it out back to the bowler Two overs to go and 29 runs to get ? Can they get to 400 ? 47.6 Andy McBrine to Rossouw , no run , full toss , reverse-swept very well but straight to backward point. Rossouw will be kicking himself for not hitting the gap 47.5 Andy McBrine to Rossouw , FOUR , unlucky for the bowler. Rossouw advances down the wicket , McBrine saw him coming and fired it down the leg-side , Rossouw tries to whip , but gets an under edge and it went very fine to the fine leg boundary 47.4 Andy McBrine to Rossouw , SIX , this time Rossouw gets it right and sends it flat over long-on. The fielder in the deep was very square. Flighted delivery from McBrine , Rossouw gets to the pitch of the ball and sends it over the boundary 47.3 Andy McBrine to Rossouw , no run , follows Rossouw as he backs away , a brilliant yorker and Rossouw could do nothing with it 47.2 Andy McBrine to Rossouw , no run , advances and tries to slog , but misses and gets hit on the pad 47.1 Andy McBrine to D Miller , 1 run , good length delivery just outside off stump , Miller punches it off the back foot to long-on Andy McBrine [ 9.0-0-52-2 ] is back into the attack 46.6 Sorensen to Rossouw , no run , low full toss outside off stump , Rossouw mistimes the drive back to the bowler 46.5 Sorensen to D Miller , 1 run , a couple of yards either side of the fielder would have been a boundary. Low full toss outside off stump , Miller slices and picks out short third man 46.4 Sorensen to Rossouw , 1 run , widish yorker outside off stump , Rossouw sends it through cover-point , Rossouw slips while trying to turn for the second run 46.3 Sorensen to Rossouw , SIX , thank you very much says Rossouw and smashes it over mid-wicket. Full and in the slot , around leg stump line , Rossouw takes his front leg out of the way and easily sends it over the boundary rope 46.2 Sorensen to D Miller , 1 run , low full toss outside off stump , Miller looks to drive through the off-side , but the bat turns in his hands and goes to long-on 46.1 Sorensen to Rossouw , 1 run , a fine yorker outside off stump , Rossouw digs it out to cover 46.1 Sorensen to Rossouw , 1 run , to cover, Max Sorensen [ 4.0-0-51-0 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Stirling to Rossouw , 1 run , flighted delivery on the stumps , Rossouw wrists it to long-on , looks for two but the fielder got there quickly 45.5 Stirling to D Miller , 1 run , flighted delivery on the leg stump , Miller drives it down to long-on 45.4 Stirling to D Miller , no run , on the leg stump , Miller glances it to short fine leg and sets off , but Rossouw says no. The fielder fires in the throw and it was a direct hit. Third umpire has been called for a run-out check , but Miller was quick to return back 45.3 Stirling to D Miller , no run , backs away and cuts the flatter ball to backward point 45.2 Stirling to D Miller , no run , flighted delivery on the stumps , Miller under-edges the sweep onto the thigh pad , Miller reviewed immediately and he was right in doing so. There was a clear edge , replays and the Snicko confirm that there was bat involved Miller has reviewed an LBW decision against him. Did he hit it ? It 's a legal delivery. Yep ! There was an inside edge. Decision will be overturned . 45.1 Stirling to Rossouw , 1 run , round the wicket , flatter ball on the off stump , driven down to long-on 44.6 K O'Brien to Rossouw , 1 run , driven to cover 44.5 K O'Brien to Rossouw , FOUR , Rossouw initially gestures as if he wanted to play the reverse sweep but in the end he plays the slog as O'Brien offers a friendly full toss. The ball runs away to the deep mid-wicket boundary 44.4 K O'Brien to Rossouw , no run , yorker outside off stump , Rossouw digs it out back to the bowler , who has a shy at the stumps. Rossouw was outside the crease and he had to put in the dive 44.3 K O'Brien to Rossouw , FOUR , slower ball on the leg stump , Rossouw slogs and sends it very fine , there was a man at short fine leg , but it went well wide of him 44.2 K O'Brien to D Miller , 1 run , length ball outside off stump , driven to long-off 44.1 K O'Brien to Rossouw , 1 run , low full toss , driven down to long-on Kevin O'Brien [ 5.0-0-60-1 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Stirling to Rossouw , 1 run , driven down to long-on 43.5 Stirling to D Miller , 3 runs , flatter delivery outside off stump , Miller backs away and slashes , gets an outside edge that goes to third man 43.4 Stirling to Rossouw , 3 runs , kneels down and sweeps it down to fine leg , the batsmen take three before the ball is hunted down 43.3 Stirling to D Miller , 1 run , punched to sweeper cover 43.2 Stirling to Rossouw , 1 run , Rossouw shuffles in the crease , but Stirling keeps him calm with a flatter ball , gently nudged to mid-wicket 43.1 Stirling to Rossouw , FOUR , round the wicket , flatter delivery down the leg-side , Rossouw looks to pull but gets an under edge , there is no one at fine leg and it 's a boundary Paul Stirling [ 8.0-0-52-0 ] is back into the attack 42.6 J Mooney to D Miller , SIX , loses control of the slower ball. It was in the zone and in Miller 's arc , he waits for the ball to come and slogs it flat over the deep mid-wicket boundary. The extra ball has cost Mooney badly. It was a decent over until then It 's a free-hit now . 42.6 J Mooney to Rossouw , no ball , 1 run , oopsy ! He 's overstepped. Full and down the leg-side , flicked to backward square leg 42.5 J Mooney to Rossouw , 2 runs , follows Rossouw as he backs away , the batsman gently flicks it into the vacant mid-wicket region and that gives him two 42.4 J Mooney to D Miller , 1 run , shortish slower ball , Miller pulls it to deep mid-wicket 42.3 J Mooney to D Miller , 2 runs , full delivery on the stumps , flicked to deep mid-wicket 42.2 J Mooney to D Miller , 2 runs , driven along the ground to long-on , Rossouw races back for the second and they get back for the second Mooney , who went for 27 runs in his last over , will be a relieved man now after the departure of ABdV . 42.1 J Mooney to Rossouw , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Rossouw drives it to sweeper cover John Mooney [ 6.0-2-36-1 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Andy McBrine to D Miller , FOUR , he hardly seemed to have hit that ! Low full toss around the off stump , Miller gets down on one knee and sweeps , looked like he was looking for a single , but he hit it too well and it almost went all the way over the deep backward square leg boundary 41.5 Andy McBrine to Rossouw , 1 run , tossed up outside off stump , Rossouw drives it to long-off 41.4 Andy McBrine to D Miller , 1 run , driven down to long-off Rilee Rossouw , left handed bat , comes to the crease 41.3 Andy McBrine to de Villiers , out Caught by N O'Brien ! ! This is a brilliant bowling change by Porterfield. He 's got two massive wickets in a space of 3 balls. Why did you play that fancy little reverse sweep AB ? It was right in the slot to go over long-on and surely , he would have hit it for six ! Nothing but a flighted delivery , a bad stroke attempted by AB and he mistimes it completely. It catches him high on the bat and balloons up , point runs back and to his right to take a good catch. Massive wicket this , really massive. That will make a difference of 15-20 runs , if not more , to the final score. de Villiers c N O'Brien b Andy McBrine 24 ( 9 ) [ 4s-1 6s-2 ] Andy McBrine to de Villiers , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 41.2 Andy McBrine to de Villiers , 2 runs , on the leg stump , de Villiers flicks it to deep square leg David Miller , left handed bat , comes to the crease 41.1 Andy McBrine to Amla , out Caught by Ed Joyce ! ! Not timed too well and it 's an easy catch to long-off. Ed Joyce , who dropped Amla on 10 , catches him on 159. Flighted delivery outside off stump , Amla steps out and looks to loft , but does n't get it from the middle of the bat. In fact , he was looking to go over long-on but the bat turned in his hands. Amla raises his bat as he walks off. Actually , South Africa may not mind losing Amla at this stage as it brings in Miller. Amla c Ed Joyce b Andy McBrine 159 ( 128 ) [ 4s-16 6s-4 ] Andy McBrine to Amla , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Andy McBrine [ 8.0-0-44-0 ] is back into the attack He 's just faced 7 balls , AB de Villiers , and scored 22 runs already . 40.6 K O'Brien to de Villiers , 2 runs , fine yorker on the stumps , de Villiers gets across and goes down on his knees to sweep it fine , but gets a bottom edge that rolls to fine leg 40.5 K O'Brien to de Villiers , SIX , no Kevin O'Brien , noooo ! Ca n't bowl there to this man. Full and in the slot , de Villiers backs away initially but smashes it high over extra-cover and it goes way into the stand 40.4 K O'Brien to Amla , 1 run , yorker on the leg stump , Amla works it to backward square leg 40.3 K O'Brien to Amla , FOUR , four more ! Full and wide outside off stump , Amla square-drives it very well , the fielder at backward point dives to his right but the ball escapes 40.2 K O'Brien to Amla , FOUR , that 's his highest ODI score ! Short and just outside off stump , Amla gets across and pulls it past the man at short fine leg for four 40.1 K O'Brien to Amla , 2 runs , full and outside off stump , Amla drives it past the diving fielder at extra-cover and that 's his 150. He raises his bat and shakes hands with ABdV. Can he get to 200 ? So much time left in the innings South Africa have scored 69/1 in the 5-over batting powerplay . 39.6 Dockrell to Amla , 1 run , on the leg stump , Amla drags the slog to deep square leg 39.5 Dockrell to Amla , FOUR , high full toss and Amla does well to slog it in the gap. It was just under waist height. He hits it between mid-on and mid-wicket 39.4 Dockrell to de Villiers , 1 run , follows de Villiers as he backs away , the batsman mistimes the slap to long-off 39.3 Dockrell to de Villiers , 2 runs , low full toss , de Villiers drives it past extra-cover and long-off tidies up 39.2 Dockrell to de Villiers , SIX , in the airrrr and the fielder does n't get there in time. That was catchable. Did he start very late ? Flighted delivery on the leg stump , de Villiers sweeps in the air , deep mid-wicket runs to his right , sticks his right hand out but the ball just escapes past him and crosses the boundary 39.1 Dockrell to de Villiers , FOUR , boundary number one for de Villiers ! Flighted delivery on the leg stump , de Villiers backs away and lofts it inside-out over extra-cover George Dockrell [ 9.0-0-38-0 ] is back into the attack 38.6 K O'Brien to Amla , 2 runs , full and outside off stump , Amla drives , the fielder at cover-point dives to his right and parries it towards extra-cover , AB is aware of the situation and he pushes Amla for the second run 38.5 K O'Brien to de Villiers , 1 run , straightaway steps out , but O'Brien drags his length back , de Villiers runs it down to third man AB de Villiers , right handed bat , comes to the crease Alright , ABdV is in ! 38.4 K O'Brien to du Plessis , out Bowled ! ! Timbahhh ! Fantastic yorker from O'Brien , right at the base of middle stump and du Plessis could n't keep it out. The batsman backs away and tries to go slog , but misses as he goes early into the shot and it rattles into the stumps. O'Brien is pumped and he punches the stumps softly in delight. That was more a soccer celebration from the all-rounder. du Plessis walks off to a standing ovation. du Plessis b K O'Brien 109 ( 109 ) [ 4s-10 6s-1 ] K O'Brien to du Plessis , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 38.3 K O'Brien to Amla , 1 run , nice and full outside off stump , Amla drives it wide of long-off 38.2 K O'Brien to du Plessis , 3 runs , this time he connects with the scoop. Full and around the off stump , du Plessis sends it over short fine leg , Dockrell runs across from short third man , puts in the slide and saves one 38.1 K O'Brien to du Plessis , no run , du Plessis gets right across the line and tries to scoop , but O'Brien bowls this well outside off stump and beats the bat 37.6 J Mooney to Amla , SIX , whoa ! 4 4 6 4 6 to end the over. 27 runs came off the over and Mooney went for just 9 runs in his first five overs. Full and outside off stump , Amla waits for the ball and lofts it handsomely over extra-cover 37.5 J Mooney to Amla , FOUR , excellent placement once again ! Mindful of the fact that third man was inside the ring , Amla delays the cut and slices this short ball over short third man. That was expertly done ! 37.4 J Mooney to Amla , SIX , it 's a slog and it 's gone all the way. Slower ball picked very early , Amla clears his front leg out of the way and sends it flat over deep square leg 37.4 J Mooney to Amla , no ball , FOUR , is that a no ball ? Yes it is ! Mooney loses control of this one and bowls a full toss above waist height. Amla waits for the ball and smashes it over cover for four more 37.3 J Mooney to Amla , FOUR , easy ball and Amla does n't miss out ! Slower ball goes way too short , Amla had two hours to rock back and pull , he places it over backward square leg and the fielder in the deep had no chance despite running swiftly to his right 37.2 J Mooney to Amla , 2 runs , a loft over mid-off , but there is a man in the deep. Actually , Amla did not time it well enough and it went very straight as well. There was a man at long-off 37.1 J Mooney to Amla , no run , Amla stays leg-side of the ball and tries to go over extra-cover , but this short of length delivery beats the bat and just goes over the middle stump. The keeper takes the bails off , but Amla had his back foot grounded John Mooney [ 5.0-2-9-1 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now. This brilliant double-hundred stand has put South Africa in a great position. Ireland will have to bowl really well from here on to be chasing anything less than 375. The stage is set for the likes of de Villiers , Rossouw and Miller. Can they score 400 again ? We 'll find out in a while . 36.6 K O'Brien to du Plessis , FOUR , inventive shot from Faf ! Good length ball outside off stump , du Plessis lines himself up for the scoop over short fine leg , but on seeing O'Brien bowl this well outside off stump , he hits it straight back over the keeper 's head. 13 off the over , exactly what the Proteas wanted with field restrictions in place 36.5 K O'Brien to du Plessis , no run , slower ball yorker again from O'Brien , du Plessis backs away , but can only dig it out onto his pads 36.4 K O'Brien to du Plessis , 2 runs , a fine yorker following du Plessis as he backs away , but the batsman manages to work it through mid-wicket , Amla races back for the second and a direct-hit at the bowler 's would have been very interesting 36.3 K O'Brien to Amla , 1 run , slower ball hit uppishly to long-off , who is very quick to move to his left and prevent the second run 36.2 K O'Brien to Amla , FOUR , great placement from Hash ! Full and way outside off stump , Amla opens the face of the bat at the last moment to send the drive very square , he hits it over backward point and there is no stopping that 36.1 K O'Brien to Amla , 2 runs , full and outside off stump , Amla drives hard , but the man at deep cover runs to his right and tidies up Kevin O'Brien [ 2.0-0-21-0 ] is back into the attack It 's good news for Ireland that they 've conceded just 4 runs in the first 6 balls of the powerplay . 35.6 Dockrell to Amla , 1 run , advances and slogs the flighted delivery to mid-wicket , who deflects it towards mid-on 35.5 Dockrell to du Plessis , 1 run , 4th ODI hundred for Faf ! He 's a happy man. Amla shakes hands with his partner to congratulate him. Flighted delivery on the leg stump , du Plessis turns it softly to square leg and takes a sharp run 35.4 Dockrell to du Plessis , no run , a tentative front foot push away the body , the ball goes uppishly but does n't carry to point 35.3 Dockrell to du Plessis , no run , steps out and on-drive , but McBrine makes a sliding save to his left at mid-wicket 35.2 Dockrell to Amla , 1 run , short and outside off stump , cut to sweeper cover 35.1 Dockrell to du Plessis , 1 run , double-hundred partnership. Flatter delivery on the leg stump , du Plessis steps out and nudges it to backward point. du Plessis is on 99 now Batting powerplay has been enforced. Fasten your seat belts folks ! 34.6 Stirling to du Plessis , 1 run , easily pushed down to long-on 34.5 Stirling to du Plessis , no run , on the stumps , defended straight back to the bowler 34.4 Stirling to Amla , 1 run , flighted delivery outside off stump , Amla drives to long-off 34.3 Stirling to du Plessis , 1 run , a huge mix-up , but all is well in the end for South Africa. du Plessis flicks this flighted delivery to backward square leg , Amla was halfway down the wicket for a run , du Plessis says no , the throw came at the wrong end , Amla was struggling at the bowler 's end , but by the time the keeper had a shy at the bowler 's end , Amla was well in with a dive. In fact , the throw from the keeper was wayward and they get a run 34.2 Stirling to Amla , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Amla drives it to sweeper cover 34.1 Stirling to du Plessis , 1 run , flatter ball outside off stump , du Plessis goes on the back foot and punches it to sweeper cover 33.6 Dockrell to Amla , no run , full and down the leg-side , Amla tries to work it on the on-side , but gets a soft leading edge that rolls towards mid-wicket 33.5 Dockrell to Amla , no run , slowish and on the stumps , defended 33.4 Dockrell to du Plessis , 1 run , steps out and defends wide of mid-on , the fielder at mid-wicket tries to stop and dives to his left , but he deflects the ball 33.3 Dockrell to Amla , 1 run , easily driven down to long-off 33.2 Dockrell to du Plessis , 1 run , spinning away outside off stump , du Plessis taps it to backward point 33.1 Dockrell to Amla , 1 run , flatter delivery on the leg stump , Amla flicks it to deep mid-wicket George Dockrell [ 7.0-0-30-0 ] is back into the attack 32.6 Stirling to du Plessis , FOUR , du Plessis signs off the over in style as he did in Stirling 's last over. Flighted ball from Stirling , du Plessis lofts it flat over mid-off 32.5 Stirling to Amla , 1 run , on the off stump , punched along the ground to long-off 32.4 Stirling to du Plessis , 1 run , tossed up from Stirling , du Plessis steps out and drives to mid-off 32.3 Stirling to du Plessis , no run , backs away and punches the flatter ball to cover 32.2 Stirling to Amla , 1 run , 20th ODI hundred for Amla. Full and outside off stump , Amla drives it along the ground to long-off. His teammates stand and applaud. He raises his bat and acknowledges the applause. He gets a hug from Faf as well. Amla is the fastest to record 20 hundreds in ODIs , surpassing Virat Kohli 32.1 Stirling to du Plessis , 1 run , hangs back and punches the flatter ball to long-on 31.6 Andy McBrine to du Plessis , 1 run , backs away and punches the flatter ball to sweeper cover 31.5 Andy McBrine to Amla , 1 run , friendly ball on the pads , flicked away through backward square leg. Amla on 99 now 31.4 Andy McBrine to Amla , no run , shortish outside off stump , punched off the back foot to cover-point 31.3 Andy McBrine to du Plessis , 1 run , waits for the ball to spin back in and flicks it through backward square leg 31.2 Andy McBrine to Amla , 1 run , 'catch ' is the cry as Amla drives this uppishly off the front foot , but it went well wide of the man at cover , who dived to his right 31.1 Andy McBrine to Amla , no run , fired in full and outside off stump , defended off the front foot 30.6 Stirling to du Plessis , FOUR , mid-off is inside the ring and that 's a safe shot ! du Plessis does n't try to overhit the flighted delivery , just lofts it over the infield and it bounces just inside the rope 30.5 Stirling to Amla , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Amla drives it to long-off 30.4 Stirling to du Plessis , 1 run , clipped away to backward square leg This is a record 2nd wicket stand for South Africa in World Cup cricket . 30.3 Stirling to Amla , 1 run , almost a yorker , Amla digs it out to long-on 30.2 Stirling to du Plessis , 1 run , delays the drive and sends it through point 30.1 Stirling to Amla , 1 run , shortish and outside off stump , Amla drives it to sweeper cover 29.6 Andy McBrine to Amla , 1 run , flatter ball outside off stump , softly driven off the back foot to long-off 29.5 Andy McBrine to du Plessis , 1 run , short enough for du Plessis to hang back and punch to long-on 29.4 Andy McBrine to Amla , 1 run , driven off the back foot through cover-point again 29.3 Andy McBrine to du Plessis , 1 run , a gentle flick into the on-side past the man at mid-wicket 29.2 Andy McBrine to Amla , 1 run , shortish and outside off stump , driven off the back foot to sweeper cover 29.1 Andy McBrine to Amla , no run , spinning back in , bit of extra bounce , but Amla handles it well as he turns it to mid-wicket Andy McBrine [ 6.0-0-35-0 ] is back into the attack 28.6 Stirling to Amla , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Amla punches it off the front foot to long-off and keeps strike 28.5 Stirling to du Plessis , 1 run , quicker and outside off stump , du Plessis punches it to sweeper cover 28.4 Stirling to Amla , 1 run , flatter delivery from Stirling , Amla punches to long-on 28.3 Stirling to Amla , no run , and again ! Full and outside off stump , Amla drives well off the front foot , Kevin O'Brien dives to his left and makes another good stop. Has a shy at the stumps as Amla was initially out of the crease , but he was well home in the end 28.2 Stirling to Amla , no run , brilliant stop by Kev at cover ! Amla drove this flighted delivery very hard , the fielder flew to his left and stopped it with his right hand 28.1 Stirling to du Plessis , 1 run , quicker through the air outside off stump , du Plessis defends it towards cover-point for a run Paul Stirling [ 4.0-0-26-0 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Dockrell to Amla , no run , tossed up on the off stump , Amla steps out and defends 27.5 Dockrell to du Plessis , 1 run , slower through the air , du Plessis drives it to long-on 27.4 Dockrell to du Plessis , no run , advances and tries to slap hard , but mistimes it back to the bowler 27.3 Dockrell to du Plessis , 2 runs , shot ! Too short from Dockrell , du Plessis rocks back and lofts it high over extra-cover , long-off swiftly moves to his left and saves two 27.2 Dockrell to du Plessis , no run , steps out and blocks as he does n't get to the pitch of the ball 27.1 Dockrell to du Plessis , no run , flatter delivery on the off stump , du Plessis defends 26.6 Andy McBrine to du Plessis , 1 run , delays the cut shot and places it past the diving fielder at backward point , but there is a man in the deep 26.5 Andy McBrine to Amla , 1 run , quicker through the air and on the off stump , driven down to long-on 26.4 Andy McBrine to du Plessis , 1 run , driven hard off the back foot but straight to sweeper cover 26.3 Andy McBrine to du Plessis , 2 runs , the scoop from du Plessis. Flighted delivery outside off stump , du Plessis gets across the stumps and sends it over the jumping keeper 26.2 Andy McBrine to Amla , 1 run , short enough for Amla to hang back and punch to sweeper cover 26.1 Andy McBrine to Amla , no run , allows the ball to spin back in and punches it to short mid-wicket 25.6 Dockrell to du Plessis , no run , fast and outside off stump , du Plessis drives it straight to cover 25.5 Dockrell to Amla , 1 run , tossed up outside off stump , Amla drives it along the ground to long-off 25.4 Dockrell to du Plessis , 1 run , punched past the bowler to long-on and that 's the 150-run stand between these two 25.3 Dockrell to du Plessis , no run , jumps out of the crease and softly taps this flatter ball to mid-wicket 25.2 Dockrell to du Plessis , no run , slowish and spinning away , du Plessis defends off the back foot 25.1 Dockrell to Amla , 1 run , short and spinning away outside off stump , driven off the back foot through cover-point George Dockrell [ 5.0-0-24-0 ] is back into the attack 24.6 Andy McBrine to Amla , 1 run , slower and on off , pushed past the bowler for a single 24.5 Andy McBrine to Amla , no run , this one is given more air as McBrine goes wider , driven to the fielder at extra cover , the fielder dived there and saved some runs for his team 24.4 Andy McBrine to du Plessis , 1 run , tossed up and on off , eased in front of square on the on-side for a single 24.3 Andy McBrine to Amla , 1 run , flighted delivery and on off , nudged wide of mid-wicket for a single 24.2 Andy McBrine to du Plessis , 1 run , slower and well outside off , driven wide of cover for a single 24.1 Andy McBrine to du Plessis , FOUR , more runs , the man at square leg did n't see it at all , du Plessis was down on his knees as he swept , gets it to the left of square leg , just past the man there , Dockrell was the fielder there 23.6 Sorensen to du Plessis , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , worked away square on the off-side for a single , 24 came from that over. Sorensen has been taken for plenty today 23.5 Sorensen to du Plessis , SIX , that 's a massive hit from du Plessis , he wants to join the party as well , skips down the track , gets underneath the length and lofts it high and well over long-on , well taken by an Indian in the stands 23.4 Sorensen to Amla , 1 run , tad fuller and on the stumps , driven down towards long-on for a single 23.3 Sorensen to Amla , FOUR , Sorensen has been taken for plenty , he drops this one short and wide outside off , cut away square on the off-side , the fielder in the deep is very square , another boundary for Amla 23.2 Sorensen to Amla , SIX , this is even better ! On a good length and well outside off , Amla gets underneath the length , plays with an open face , makes some room outside leg and carves it up and over extra cover for a maximum , he 's on fire here 23.1 Sorensen to Amla , SIX , lovely shot , this was a length ball and just outside off , Amla shuffles across , gets underneath the length and hoicks it high and over wide long-on for a maximum 22.6 Andy McBrine to du Plessis , no run , pushed through by McBrine , du Plessis makes room and mistimes the cut towards point 22.5 Andy McBrine to du Plessis , no run , tossed up and well outside off , du Plessis comes down the track , does n't get to the pitch and defends it back towards the bowler 22.4 Andy McBrine to Amla , 1 run , fraction shorter and well outside off , Amla backs away and cuts it square on the off-side for a single 22.3 Andy McBrine to du Plessis , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , pulled away with a vertical bat , goes to the fielder at deep mid-wicket on the bounce 22.2 Andy McBrine to Amla , 1 run , Amla is playing more shots now , this was tossed up and just outside off , drilled down the ground and to the left of long on , just a single 22.1 Andy McBrine to du Plessis , 1 run , tossed up and just outside off , worked to the left of square leg for a single 21.6 Sorensen to Amla , no run , on a good length and well outside off , Amla drives to the left of cover where the fielder makes a tumbling stop 21.5 Sorensen to du Plessis , 1 run , full and on the stumps , du Plessis flicks it towards mid-wicket , the ball hits the edge of the practice turf and lobs over the fielder 21.4 Sorensen to Amla , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , Amla makes room and slashes it square past cover for a single 21.3 Sorensen to Amla , FOUR , that 's clubbed by Amla , lots of power behind the shot , length ball on off , Amla makes room and drills it to the right of mid-off , the fielder dives , but the ball beats him to the fence 21.2 Sorensen to Amla , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , driven towards mid-off 21.1 Sorensen to Amla , no run , short of a length and just outside off , worked towards mid-on Max Sorensen [ 2.0-0-21-0 ] is back into the attack 20.6 Andy McBrine to Amla , 1 run , pushed through and on off , nudged down towards long-on for a single 20.5 Andy McBrine to Amla , no run , tossed up and just outside off , Amla stays behind the line and pushes it towards cover 20.4 Andy McBrine to Amla , no run , slower and wider from McBrine , driven straight to the fielder at cover 20.3 Andy McBrine to du Plessis , 1 run , du Plessis comes down the track to a well flighted delivery and clips it behind square on the on-side for a single 20.2 Andy McBrine to Amla , 1 run , fraction shorter and on Amla 's pads , tucked away behind square on the on-side 20.1 Andy McBrine to Amla , no run , tossed up and on the stumps , worked straight to the fielder at mid-wicket 19.6 Stirling to Amla , 1 run , pushed through and wider outside off , chopped away square on the off-side for a single 19.5 Stirling to du Plessis , 1 run , 15th ODI fifty for du Plessis , fraction short and well outside off , cut square on the off-side for a single 19.4 Stirling to du Plessis , no run , flighted delivery and wider outside off , defended with an open face towards point 19.3 Stirling to Amla , 1 run , slower and on the stumps , eased down towards long-on for a single 19.2 Stirling to du Plessis , 1 run , punched down towards long-on , brings up the 100-run stand as well 19.1 Stirling to du Plessis , FOUR , this is poor bowling from Stirling , drops one short and on the stumps , du Plessis rocks back and pulls it over mid-wicket for a boundary , he just eased it over mid-wicket 's head Paul Stirling [ 3.0-0-18-0 ] is back into the attack 18.6 Andy McBrine to du Plessis , 3 runs , tossed up and well outside off , draws du Plessis into the drive , he gets a thick edge and past the fielder at 1st slip , backward point gives chase and keeps them down to three runs 18.5 Andy McBrine to du Plessis , no run , this one is given more air , du Plessis plays with an open face and guides it towards point 18.4 Andy McBrine to du Plessis , no run , flatter and on off , punched straight to the fielder at mid-on 18.3 Andy McBrine to Amla , 1 run , once again fraction too short from McBrine , punched away square on the off-side for a single 18.2 Andy McBrine to du Plessis , 1 run , this one is given more air , eased past mid-wicket for a single 18.1 Andy McBrine to du Plessis , no run , slower and on the stumps , du Plessis goes back and turns it towards mid-wicket 17.6 Dockrell to Amla , no run , that 's a smart stop from the fielder at point , this was short and just outside off , Amla makes room on the punch , the fielder at backward point dives across and prevents a boundary 17.5 Dockrell to du Plessis , 1 run , tossed up and on the stumps , du Plessis comes down the track and drives it down towards long-on 17.4 Dockrell to du Plessis , no run , this one is drifted wider outside off , du Plessis comes down the track and blocks it 17.3 Dockrell to du Plessis , no run , slower and on off , du Plessis prods forward and blocks 17.2 Dockrell to du Plessis , FOUR , Dockrell has been on the shorter side today , once again drags this one down , du Plessis rocks back and pulls it over mid-wicket for a boundary 17.1 Dockrell to Amla , 1 run , a little shimmy down the track , gets to the pitch and drives it towards long-on for a single 16.6 Andy McBrine to Amla , 1 run , slower and on the off-stump channel , pushed wide of cover for a single 16.5 Andy McBrine to du Plessis , 3 runs , McBrine drops one short and well outside off , it was the quicker ball as well , du Plessis waits on it , uses the pace and runs it past the lone slip , the fielder at short third man gets across , puts in the slide , fumbled as he did it and allows a third run 16.4 Andy McBrine to Amla , 1 run , slightly shorter and on Amla 's pads , worked away behind square on the on-side for a single 16.3 Andy McBrine to du Plessis , 1 run , tossed up and on off , worked in front of square on the on-side for a single 16.2 Andy McBrine to Amla , 3 runs , McBrine drops this one too short and well outside off , Amla rocks back and cuts it square past point , the fielder at sweeper cover gets across , puts in the slide and saves a single , brings up Amla 's 29th fifty 16.1 Andy McBrine to Amla , no run , tossed up and on off , driven back towards the bowler Andy McBrine , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Drinks are on the field now. South Africa lost de Kock early , but Amla and du Plessis have made the most of some indifferent bowling and fielding from the Irishmen. The platform has been set and AB normally relishes these situations . 15.6 Dockrell to du Plessis , no run , slower and wider from Dockrell , du Plessis presses across and punches it towards cover 15.5 Dockrell to Amla , 1 run , flighted and on the stumps , Amla lunges forward and drives it towards long-on for a single 15.4 Dockrell to Amla , no run , Amla comes down the track , Dockrell follows him and cramps him for room , flicked away towards square leg 15.3 Dockrell to du Plessis , 1 run , this is tossed up and goes with the angle , worked away behind square on the on-side for a single 15.2 Dockrell to du Plessis , FOUR , that 's a poor ball from Dockrell , drops this one way too short and on the stumps , du Plessis rocks back and pulls it over mid-wicket for a boundary 15.1 Dockrell to Amla , 1 run , Dockrell drops one short and just outside off , punched down towards long-on for a single 14.6 Stirling to Amla , 1 run , this one is given more air and just outside off , played with an open face and square on the off-side for a single 14.5 Stirling to du Plessis , 1 run , Stirling tosses one on the stumps , worked behind square on the on-side for a single 14.4 Stirling to du Plessis , no run , slower and on off , du Plessis prods across and clips it towards the on-side 14.3 Stirling to Amla , 1 run , Amla wisely works a well tossed up ball towards long-off for a single 14.2 Stirling to Amla , FOUR , Stirling drops one short and wide outside off , Amla backs away and cuts it square , beats point and races away to the fence 14.1 Stirling to Amla , no run , Stirling drifts one on middle , worked towards mid-wicket 13.6 Dockrell to du Plessis , no run , tossed up and just outside off , pushed back towards the bowler 13.5 Dockrell to du Plessis , no run , confusion between the two batsmen , Amla was almost sold down the river , this was driven to the left of mid-off , du Plessis set-off before changing his mind , sends Amla back , he has to rush back to his crease 13.4 Dockrell to du Plessis , no run , Dockrell drifts one across du Plessis , defended towards the bowler 13.3 Dockrell to Amla , 1 run , Dockrell tosses one on off , eased down towards long-off for a single 13.2 Dockrell to Amla , no run , tossed up and just outside off , Amla prods across and blocks 13.1 Dockrell to Amla , 2 runs , Amla came down the track , was n't there to the pitch of the ball and defends it back towards the bowler , the ball spins off the ridge , goes past Dockrell and rolls away in front of long-on , the batsmen get back for the second run 12.6 Stirling to Amla , 1 run , flatter and just outside off , punched down towards long-on for a single 12.5 Stirling to Amla , no run , Stirling drifts one across the batsman , Amla was looking for a repeat of the same shot , probably the bat angle suggested he wanted to go squarer this time , is beaten on the drive. Wilson ca n't gather it cleanly either 12.4 Stirling to Amla , 2 runs , Stirling tosses one wider outside off , Amla gets well forward , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and drives it wide of sweeper cover for a couple 12.3 Stirling to du Plessis , 1 run , flighted and on off , worked away in front of square on the on-side for a single 12.2 Stirling to du Plessis , no run , du Plessis goes for the lap sweep , O'Brien was already rushing across to his left , the batsman only gets an inside edge onto the pads 12.1 Stirling to du Plessis , no run , flighted and just outside off , du Plessis presses across and defends it towards the off-side 11.6 Dockrell to Amla , no run , Dockrell gives this one more air , Amla makes room and mistimes the drive back towards the bowler 11.5 Dockrell to Amla , no run , slower and just outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover 11.4 Dockrell to Amla , no run , the slider from Dockrell , went through with the arm , punched back towards the bowler 11.3 Dockrell to du Plessis , 1 run , Dockrell drops one short and just outside off , du Plessis goes back and eases it down towards long-on 11.2 Dockrell to Amla , 1 run , Amla shimmies down the track to a well flighted delivery and eases it down towards long-on 11.1 Dockrell to Amla , no run , slower and just outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover 10.6 Stirling to du Plessis , no run , tossed up and on off , du Plessis goes back and nudged it towards the on-side 10.5 Stirling to du Plessis , FOUR , straight past Kevin O'Brien at 1st slip , this was pushed through by Stirling , du Plessis was late on the cut , gets a thick edge past the keeper. O'Brien did n't get to see much of that , and before he could react , the ball flew past him , races away to the fence as well 10.4 Stirling to Amla , 1 run , pushed through flatter and on the stumps , worked past mid-wicket for a single 10.3 Stirling to du Plessis , 1 run , this one has been given plenty of air , worked past mid-wicket for a single 10.2 Stirling to Amla , 1 run , tossed up and on off , driven down towards long-on for a single A slip is in place 10.1 Stirling to Amla , no run , tossed up and just outside off , Amla closes the face of the bat and drives it towards cover Paul Stirling , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 9.6 Dockrell to du Plessis , no run , tad fuller and well outside off , du Plessis stays back and drives it off the back foot , ca n't get it past the fielder at cover 9.5 Dockrell to Amla , 1 run , slower and just outside off , Amla waits on it and nudges it square on the off-side , gets a single 9.4 Dockrell to du Plessis , 1 run , slower and just outside off , du Plessis eases it down towards long-off for a single 9.3 Dockrell to du Plessis , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , du Plessis goes back and punches it straight to the fielder at cover 9.2 Dockrell to du Plessis , FOUR , fraction too short and wide outside off , du Plessis is quick to rock back , makes room and punches it square on the off-side , beats point and races away to the fence 9.1 Dockrell to du Plessis , no run , flighted and just outside off , punched back towards the bowler George Dockrell , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack Spin for Ireland. Dockrell is into the attack. He has a slip in place 8.6 J Mooney to du Plessis , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , du Plessis presses across and works it to the left of square leg for a single 8.5 J Mooney to du Plessis , no run , wide full-toss from Mooney , driven straight to short extra-cover , the fielder fumbles but the man at mid-off rushes across to prevent a single 8.4 J Mooney to du Plessis , no run , Mooney shortens his length outside off , du Plessis stays back and punches it towards cover-point 8.3 J Mooney to du Plessis , no run , tad fuller and shaping back into du Plessis , that stayed a bit low as well , pushed off the back foot and towards mid-on 8.2 J Mooney to du Plessis , no run , short of a length and just outside off , du Plessis stays behind the line and punches it to cover-point 8.1 J Mooney to du Plessis , 2 runs , fraction too straight from Mooney , the length was a bit short as well , flicked away in front of square on the on-side for a couple of runs 7.6 K O'Brien to Amla , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Amla plays with an open face and guides it towards backward point 7.5 K O'Brien to Amla , FOUR , Amla is looking in excellent touch , tad fuller and wider outside off , Amla waits on it , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and drives it to the right of cover , the ball races away to the fence 7.4 K O'Brien to Amla , no run , short of a length and on the stumps , Amla presses across and nudges it towards mid-on 7.3 K O'Brien to du Plessis , 1 run , tad fuller and just outside off , dabbed away with an open face and behind point for a single 7.2 K O'Brien to Amla , 1 run , back of a length and on Amla 's pads , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single 7.1 K O'Brien to Amla , FOUR , Amla watches the ball race to the fence , du Plessis was on all fours and on the ground as he was backing up , this was pitched up and held its line on off , Amla presents the full face of the bat on the straight drive 6.6 J Mooney to du Plessis , no run , on a good length and just outside off , du Plessis gets well forward and defends it towards cover-point 6.6 J Mooney to du Plessis , wide , Mooney goes wider outside off as du Plessis shuffled across his stumps , called as a wide. Mooney is n't pleased with the umpire 's call 6.5 J Mooney to du Plessis , no run , short of a length and just outside off , gets big on du Plessis , he does well to stay back and pushes it towards mid-off 6.4 J Mooney to du Plessis , no run , on a good length and just outside off , du Plessis presents a straight bat as he blocks 6.3 J Mooney to Amla , 1 run , fraction short and just outside off , Amla swivels across and pulls it away behind square on the on-side , just a single 6.2 J Mooney to Amla , no run , tad fuller and on off , driven back towards the bowler 6.1 J Mooney to Amla , no run , on a length and angling back into Amla , he closes the face of the bat and defends it towards mid-on 5.6 K O'Brien to Amla , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , Amla plays with an open face and guides it down towards third man for a single 5.5 K O'Brien to Amla , FOUR , this will hurt K O'Brien , overpitched and well outside off , Amla leans forward and drills it through extra cover for a boundary 5.4 K O'Brien to Amla , FOUR , that 's adding insult to injury for K O'Brien , this was short and well outside off , Amla gets across and cuts it square past cover-point for a boundary 5.3 K O'Brien to du Plessis , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , du Plessis pushes at that , gets a thick edge down towards third man 5.2 K O'Brien to Amla , 1 run , short of a length and well outside off , chopped away towards third man for a single 5.1 K O'Brien to Amla , no run , that 's dropped and Ed Joyce is the culprit , this was full and on Amla 's pads , whipped away straight to short mid-wicket , straight in and straight out , that should have been taken , went at a comfortable height as well Kevin O'Brien , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 4.6 J Mooney to Amla , 1 run , back of a length and angling into Amla 's pads , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single 4.5 J Mooney to Amla , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven firmly but straight to the fielder at mid-off 4.4 J Mooney to du Plessis , 1 run , Mooney strays one onto du Plessis ' pads , flicked away behind square leg for a single 4.3 J Mooney to du Plessis , no run , that 's much better from Mooney , comes in with the angle , draws du Plessis forward before nipping away from outside off , du Plessis has to play at that , lucky not to have edged it 4.2 J Mooney to du Plessis , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover-point 4.1 J Mooney to du Plessis , 2 runs , first runs off Mooney 's bowling , comes from wide of the crease and angles onto du Plessis ' pads , whipped away in front of square on the on-side. Sorenson gets across from the deep , puts in the dive and saves a couple of runs 3.6 Sorensen to Amla , no run , fuller length delivery and on Amla 's pads , whipped straight to the fielder at square leg 3.5 Sorensen to du Plessis , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , dabbed away towards third man for a single The second slip has moved across to short cover 3.4 Sorensen to du Plessis , no run , on a good length and just outside off , du Plessis stays back and pushes it towards cover-point 3.3 Sorensen to du Plessis , FOUR , Sorensen is easing the pressure off South Africa ! This was full and wide outside off , a long half-volley , du Plessis leans forward and caresses it past extra cover for a boundary 3.3 Sorensen to du Plessis , wide , Sorensen is really struggling here , this one is full and miles down leg , wide called 3.2 Sorensen to du Plessis , no run , much better from Sorensen , fuller length delivery and just outside off , du Plessis gets forward and drives it towards mid-off 3.2 Sorensen to du Plessis , wide , Sorensen sprays this one short and miles outside off , another wide added to the total 3.1 Sorensen to Amla , 1 run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , Amla gets down on one knee and drives it behind point for a single 3.1 Sorensen to Amla , wide , Sorensen continues to struggle , drifts this one well down leg-side , wide called 2.6 J Mooney to du Plessis , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , du Plessis covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go , a wicket-maiden from Mooney 2.5 J Mooney to du Plessis , no run , very full and just outside off , turns out to be a low full-toss , du Plessis closes the face of the bat and pushes it towards mid-off 2.4 J Mooney to du Plessis , no run , on a good length and on the stumps , du Plessis shuffles across and defends it towards mid-on Faf du Plessis , right handed bat , comes to the crease 2.3 J Mooney to de Kock , out Caught by G Wilson ! ! de Kock falls early once again ! He 's having a tough time in this World Cup ! This was pushed across the batsman , the angle took it away from outside off , de Kock was pushing forward in defence , does n't cover the line and gets a thick edge through to the keeper. The Irishmen were convinced as they challenged Martinesz 's call. Replays indicate them. de Kock c G Wilson b J Mooney 1 ( 4 ) J Mooney to de Kock , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Loud shout for a caught behind. Ireland want a review. There was a sound as the ball went past the batsman. Was it bat on ball ? It ca n't be anything else , there 's a clear edge on that. There 's a clear spike on the Snicko as well. Umpire Martinesz might have to change his call. He changes it and de Kock is OUT 2.2 J Mooney to de Kock , no run , very full and just outside off , de Kock gets across and drives it towards mid-off 2.1 J Mooney to de Kock , no run , back of a length and just outside off , de Kock stays behind the line and punches it towards cover-point 1.6 Sorensen to Amla , no run , on a good length and just outside off , driven towards mid-off 1.5 Sorensen to Amla , FOUR , in the air and just wide of point , this was full and wide outside off , Amla went slashing at that , does n't keep it on the ground , the fielder at point dives across to his right , but the ball was always going away from him , second boundary of the over 1.5 Sorensen to Amla , wide , Sorensen has n't got his line right , this one is miles outside off , left alone 1.4 Sorensen to Amla , no run , on a good length and just outside off , driven back towards the bowler , who gets a hand onto it and takes the pace off the ball 1.3 Sorensen to Amla , FOUR , nicely done by Amla , this was pitched up and held its line on middle , Amla shuffles across , gets behind the line and punches it to the left of mid-on , the fast outfield takes care of the rest 1.2 Sorensen to Amla , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , left alone 1.2 Sorensen to Amla , wide , Sorensen has n't got his line right , sprays this one well outside off , wide called 1.1 Sorensen to de Kock , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on de Kock 's pads , hint of swing for Sorensen , but he 's drifted that onto the pads , flicked away behind square on the on-side for a single 1.1 Sorensen to de Kock , wide , Sorensen slips one full and well down leg-side , wide called. RSA are off the mark with an extra Max Sorensen , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 J Mooney to Amla , no run , accurate start from Mooney , fuller length delivery and just outside off , driven to the left of the bowler who makes a diving stop 0.5 J Mooney to Amla , no run , Mooney keeps one full and on Amla 's pads , flicked away wristily and straight to mid-on 0.4 J Mooney to Amla , no run , tad fuller and on off , Amla presses across and punches it to the left of mid-on , the fielder gets across and stops any chance of a single 0.3 J Mooney to Amla , no run , Mooney keeps it on a good length and just outside off , defended with a straight bat towards mid-on Not much movement on offer so far. . 0.2 J Mooney to Amla , no run , Mooney keeps it full and on off , punched back towards the bowler 0.1 J Mooney to Amla , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Amla presses forward and defends it towards the off-side Amla and de Kock are at the crease. Amla is on strike. J Mooney will open the attack The players are out in the middle. It 's time for the action.. South Africa plundered 400 + at the SCG against West Indies , can Ireland keep them down to a low total ? Teams : Ireland ( Playing XI ) : William Porterfield ( c ) , Paul Stirling , Ed Joyce , Niall O'Brien , Andrew Balbirnie , Gary Wilson ( w ) , Kevin O'Brien , John Mooney , Max Sorensen , George Dockrell , Andy McBrine South Africa ( Playing XI ) : Hashim Amla , Quinton de Kock ( w ) , Faf du Plessis , Rilee Rossouw , AB de Villiers ( c ) , David Miller , Farhaan Behardien , Dale Steyn , Kyle Abbott , Morne Morkel , Imran Tahir South Africa have won the toss and have opted to bat AB de Villiers : Always we get those expectations to perform and I think all the teams at the World Cup , you want to represent your country in a good way and win games of cricket. It 's another big opportunity for us to do well today. Hopefully , we will bring out our 'A ' game. A couple ( Duminy and Philander ) are still struggling with niggles , but other than that , we are feeling mentally fresh , that 's the most important thing. Really excited to play a good game. We are batting first , looks like a good pitch , just more of the same as we did in the last game , want to set a good foundation upfront , really assess good and communicate well , that 's the fundamentals of a good batting innings. We dont't really have a preference , we just had a look at the wicket and had a good feel of the ground , played here not too long ago here against Australia and we feel batting first will suit our play for today the best. Same side this time around. He 's ( Duminy ) not a 100 % fit yet , he 's batting in the nets , started bowling yesterday , just a little bit too late for us to push him in , do n't want to risk him yet , will be probably ready for Auckland . William Porterfield : 'Yeah , it 's obviously a nice feeling , but there 's a long way to go. We have played only played 2 games , but we are happy with the way we have gone. It 's good for the lads to come home the way they did ( against UAE ) . We would have liked to have a bat on this , but we have chased pretty well so far , so long it may continue. Coming down at the back-end , he 's ( Kevin O'Brien ) pretty key for us , struck a bit cleanly at the Gabba , so hopefully , he can continue that. One change , Andy McBrine comes in for Alex Cusack. We wanted an extra seamer at the Gabba and Andy has been performing pretty well for us , to get him back in here , hopefully he can continue with his form he had in the first game. We have come here with the ambition of getting into the quarter-final , we have done pretty well in the first two games , and we just got to take each game as it comes and this is the next challenge now , hopefully , can get two points from this . Pitch Report : 'This is a really good batting wicket. The surface is very dry , there 's not much grass , and whatever little there is , it 's well rolled in. South African pacers will get some bounce and pace off the surface. For Ireland , their best hope is to take the pace off the ball, ' reckons Matthew Hayden . Stats : Dale Steyn will be playing his 100th ODI today. He becomes the 19th South African to achieve the milestone. . Weather Report : It 's a cloudy day at Canberra and is expected to remain so for the entire duration of the match. At 24 degrees and a humidity of 52 % , players should feel comfortable in the middle. There 's a light wind blowing across the ground and it should assist the new ball bowlers . Head-to-Head record : South Africa enjoy a 3-0 winning record over Ireland in ODIs. The last meeting was during the 2011 World Cup at the Eden Gardens and it turned out to be a hopelessly one-sided encounter . Pool Position : With 4 points in their kitty , both teams are very well placed in the points table. South Africa is ahead of Ireland on net run-rate although they have played one extra match . The Manuka Oval will be hosting its third and final encounter of the 2015 World Cup. The pitch tends to be on the slower side and the new-ball bowlers have generally enjoyed some swing and seam movement. With long boundaries , the bowler 's have had a say as well , although Zimbabwe 's bowlers would beg to differ . South Africa are n't taking the Irishmen lightly and is expected to play their full roster of seven batsmen. All-rounder , Farhaan Behardien , explains their plans here : " We want to bat deep and have AB batting in the back end of our innings. The idea of having seven batters is to let AB have the freedom to explode in the end " . Ireland know the enormity of the task lying ahead but has refused to be bogged down at the prospect of bowling to AB de Villiers. " 'AB ( de Villiers ) has been in great nick but you 've just got to have your own simple plans and look after your own game. The thing is once the bowler lets that ball go , that 's as much as he 's in control of , and if he can execute whatever plans we 've got in place as best he can , if something out of the ordinary happens at the other end , then so be it " , skipper William Porterfield said . Here 's what the two teams say about this crucial encounter Ireland : After two comfortable wins over West Indies and UAE , Ireland are under no illusions as they begin the hard journey. On the positive side , most of the batsmen have found form but the bowling remains a question. Having conceded 275 + in their first two matches , it will be interesting to watch their approach against the free-stroking batsmen of South Africa . South Africa : It has been a roller-coaster ride for AB de Villiers and his men. Doubts were cast on the team after a below par show during their opening win against Zimbabwe and the humiliating 130-run loss to India only served to add fuel to the fire. The match against West Indies could n't have come at a much better time for the beleaguered Proteas. Having broken several records during their recent ODI series against the same opposition , AB 's men broke a few more on their way to a massive 257-run victory. It not only gave them a head start going into crucial fixtures ahead of the quarter-finals , it has also sounded warning bells for the rest of the teams . 12 : 15 Local Time , 02 : 15 GMT , 07 : 45 IST : After a day 's break , the World Cup returns with another huge Pool B encounter. Ireland , undefeated so far , lock horns with South Africa , one of the pre-tournament favourites at the Manuka Oval , Canberra. The race for the quarter-finals has well and truly begun and unlike Pool 'A ' , it 's still pretty wide open in this pool. Before we go further , here 's the analysis of the two teams . Preview : Skipper AB de Villiers ' looming presence in a powerful South African side has not let Ireland forgo their positive countenance ahead of their Group B ICC Cricket World Cup match clash at the Manuka Oval on Tuesday. It was not bravado with which the Irish exclaimed that they would step on the pitch thinking of a win . " If you get any Irish born team , they 've got that belief when they come out on the pitch and they 're going to scrap right to the last minute , " skipper William Porterfield said on Monday. " I do n't think we 're any different. The mind-set has always been that if we 're going out there 11 on 11 , we 're going out there to win. Tomorrow ( Tuesday ) is no different. " Having beaten the West Indies while chasing over 300 , Ireland held their nerves in a tight game against the United Arab Emirates and they are eyeing a quarter-final berth. They have done well to focus on raising their own game , especially their bowling at the death , rather than worry too much about the impending clash with one of the strongest units in the World Cup . " AB ( de Villiers ) has been in great nick but you 've just got to have your own simple plans and look after your own game. The thing is once the bowler lets that ball go , that 's as much as he 's in control of , and if he can execute whatever plans we 've got in place as best he can , if something out of the ordinary happens at the other end , then so be it , " Porterfield said . Yet , Ireland will need a combination of playing out of their skins and some poor cricket from South Africa to retain their slate clean on Tuesday. While the former can happen , it looks unlikely that the Proteas will let complacency come in the way , especially after a sluggish start to their campaign . " We are not underestimating Ireland ; we are not taking any opposition lightly , " allrounder Farhaan Behardien , fronting for the Proteas at the media interaction said. " We are aware that they have won both games they played. We have done our homework on them but are focussed on one goal and are confident that we can win. " South Africa had a near-perfect game against the West Indies , with each of de Villiers ' moves clicking and the man himself scoring an unbeaten 162. They will use some of the first-hand information that they picked up at the Manuka Oval when they lost to Australia by 73 runs in November 2014 . Skipper de Villiers ' will recall that the Manuka Oval track is on the slower side quite like the MCG pitch that they lost to India two Sundays ago. He will be aware that his own bowlers may not find the kind of pace and bounce they relish while Ireland have the kind of bowlers who can pose some questions on such a pitch . It explains Behardien 's extended response to a question. " We want to bat deep and have AB batting in the back end of our innings. The idea of having seven batters is to let AB have the freedom to explode in the end , " he said. It does look like JP Duminy has not recovered from the sidestrain that sidelined him from the match against the West Indies . The one thing that could possibly have distracted the South Africans was the fire raging in Peck 's Valley , south of Cape Town. Bowling spearhead Dale Steyn and the experienced Faf du Plessis are said to have farm houses there. Behardien said the team 's strong support structure led him to believe that the fire in Cape Town would not singe the squad . Teams : South Africa ( From ) : Quinton de Kock ( k ) , Hashim Amla , Faf du Plessis , Rilee Rossouw , AB de Villiers ( c ) , David Miller , Farhaan Behardien , Dale Steyn , Kyle Abbott , Morne Morkel , Imran Tahir , Jean-Paul Duminy , Wayne Parnell , Aaron Phangiso , Vernon Philander Ireland ( From ) : William Porterfield ( c ) , Paul Stirling , Ed Joyce , Niall O'Brien , Andrew Balbirnie , Gary Wilson ( k ) , Kevin O'Brien , John Mooney , Alex Cusack , George Dockrell , Max Sorensen , Andy McBrine , Peter Chase , Stuart Thompson , Craig Young Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
