Graphs That 's it from this game. Join us back tomorrow as Bangladesh take on Scotland in Nelson. Goodbye ! Andrew Samson : 3 bowlers have now conceded 100 in a WC innings : M Snedden NZ 1983 , J Holder WI 2015 & Dawlat Zadran. All 3 have bowled at least 1 maiden . Glenn McGrath : Big win by @ CricketAus over @ ACBofficials The Aussies would be happy , everyone had a good hit out # CWC15 Herschelle Gibbs : With big 100 's being scored everywhere and records broken,somebody 's got ta have a crack at hitting another 6x6 surely.. . Freddie Wilde : 400 + scores : 1971-2006 ( 2348 ODIs ) : 0 2006-2015 ( 1223 ODIs ) : 11 2015 ( 51 ODIs ) : 4 # CWC15 # AusvAfg # Aus # Afg Aakash Chopra : Find me a person who thinks that 400 + scores in ODI are good for the health of this game. # CWC15 # AUSvAFG Let 's have a look at a few tweets . Clarke : " Very good win. I thought the boys were outstanding with the bat. Firstly , Davey Warner exceptional and then the way the guys played around him , Steve Smith beautiful , Glenn Maxwell unbelievable. So I think everybody chipped in there and then the way we came out and bowled and fielded was , we set a really good standard for ourselves. So much improved from our game against New Zealand , which is a positive sign for us. No not really ( when asked if this game was an opportunity to give everyone a run ) . It was about winning and then when we had an opportunity I guess with the bat , I think it was 11 overs to go , I decided to send Maxi in front of me. I think we had an opportunity then to try and break our World Cup record , get that highest score , so we had a crack at that. The boys played really well. I was thinking about coming in at No. 4 , I think normally I would have taken my pads off a lot earlier , but I was holding on for as long as I possibly could. Would have liked to have had a bat for my own individual form , to get some runs under my belt , but I think it was best for the team to make the decisions I did and I think they showed that. The way Maxi came out and played with the other boys , showed that I did the right thing. He ( Faulkner ) bowled beautifully. Again we know how good he can bat at the death. I am sure he 'll be there come next game against Sri Lanka , but his bowling was outstanding. First game back and to execute his skill and to hit that good area consistently was a good sign for us. Obviously the selectors thought it was the best for these conditions ( when asked if this was Australia 's best playing XI for this World Cup ) , but I think we need to reassess come the next game against Sri Lanka at the SCG. I think it 's probably one of the selectors ' strengths. They 've picked our team on the opposition we are playing in the conditions we are playing. I am sure they 'll do exactly the same in the next game against Sri Lanka. We 'll wait and see. Whatever XI they give me , I 'll try and get the best out of them. " Nabi : " It 's a good experience to play against Australia. They batted very well , especially Warner and Smith. In the middle , Maxwell also played really well. They bowled well as well. Australia have the fastest bowlers , especially on this WACA pitch. First 6-7 overs we bowled good line and length , but Australia batted well after that. We played well in the last three games. We won against Scotland. We 'll take the experience going into the next game. " Warner : " It 's great , most importantly we won , so that 's fantastic. Compared to how I was hitting it in the nets , good to get out and play on a fantastic wicket and great to see the boys getting amongst the runs. Yeah , great to get a victory on the board. It was , it reminded us of the Ashes ( referring to the hot conditions ) . It was quite humid , but it cooled down towards the end but we got the job done. Their second spells were very good I thought. They executed the yorkers quite well. The boys were actually surprised that how quick that fellow bowls. It was good , it was impressive , they came back well at the end. Massive game for us ( against Sri Lanka ) , we got to be upbeat and come out and try and get a good start with bat or ball , yeah we definitely got to win. " David Warner is the Man of the Match Australia also put up a fine performance with the ball. Mitchell Starc bowled fast and straight and took wickets. Mitchell Johnson bowled with good rhythm and snared four wickets. Even Michael Clarke was among the wickets. Australia 's think-tank would also be happy with the fact that the fielding was good. Australia will be full of confidence when they take on Sri Lanka in Sydney in their next match. Afghanistan will have the uphill task of taking on the form team of the tournament , New Zealand , in Napier . Lest we forget that Steven Smith too played a fine knock and scored 95. He and Warner also put on the highest partnership for any wicket for Australia in ODIs. To make it even better for the hosts , Australia 's mammoth score of 417 for 6 turned out to be the highest total in World Cups. For the beleaguered Afghanistan camp , Dawlat bowled with good disciplines with the new ball. However , he ended up with sorry figures of 2 for 101 in 10 overs. Rest of the pacers too were below par. Afghanistan 's fielding was n't up to the mark as well . Once Warner was dismissed , Maxwell reduced Afghanistan 's field placements to a state of mere lottery. There was a lot of premeditation attached to Maxwell 's batting , but most of the times , he succeeded in pulling off the shot. He even expertly played the reverse sweep off Shapoor 's bowling and thwacked a six. He followed it up with by flicking Shapoor for another glorious six in the 45th over. Maxwell was finally dismissed for a spellbinding knock of 88 in just 39 balls. His thunderous half-century that came in 21 balls , was the joint third fastest fifty in World Cups . Warner continued to make a mincemeat of Afghanistan 's pace attack and composed his hundred in just 92 balls. He then , pressed the accelerator pedal to take the game away from their grasp. Both Dawlat Zadran and Shapoor Zadran were thwacked for a slew of fours and sixes. The cracking six Warner smashed off Shapoor 's bowling over the long-on region in the 32nd over has to go down as one of the shots of the match. Warner was eventually , dismissed for a superbly constructed masterpiece of 178 in 133 balls. Warner 's innings was the highest individual score by an Australian in World Cups . David Warner and Glenn Maxwell touched fabulous peaks with the willow in hand as Australia completed a facile win. While chasing down a massive total , Afghanistan 's batsmen showcased raw power and skill. But on a pacy wicket at the WACA , they had too much to do , as they hurtled towards a heavy defeat. Australia 's thumping win was the largest victory in terms of runs in World Cups. Earlier , Warner , after a few nervous moments , made Afghanistan 's attack look utterly clueless and left the stunned fielders in a state of trance. Initially , it was Hamid Hassan , who came in for some severe punishment , as he paid the price for bowling short and Warner duly despatched him for boundaries . 37.3 Johnson to Hamid , out Caught by Warner ! ! This is the biggest World Cup win in terms of runs. It is also Australia 's biggest ODI win. Short of a length delivery around the outside off stump , Hamid mistimes the pull , the ball hits him high on the bat , the man at straightish short mid-wicket runs to his left and completes a simple catch. Hamid c Warner b Johnson 7 ( 18 ) Johnson to Hamid , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 37.2 Johnson to Hamid , 2 runs , full and straight , punched off the front foot , Starc runs back from mid-off and tidies up just inside the boundary 37.1 Johnson to Hamid , no run , punches the short of length delivery off the back foot , Faulkner makes a good diving save to his right at backward point 36.6 Hazlewood to Shapoor , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Shapoor pokes and gets beaten 36.5 Hazlewood to Shapoor , no run , fullish , pushed to cover 36.4 Hazlewood to Shapoor , no run , is that a dropped catch ? Yorker length outside off stump , Shapoor tries to dig it out , gets a thick edge , oh it was a catch. Smith dives to his right at third slip but spills it. In fact , it was going straight to Clarke at second slip but Smith came in the way. Clarke is n't impressed and both have a discussion , Smith smiles 36.3 Hazlewood to Shapoor , no run , a typical tailender 's back-away-and-slash from Shapoor , he does n't meet the ball though Shapoor Zadran , left handed bat , comes to the crease 36.2 Hazlewood to Zazai , out Caught by Haddin ! ! This is strange ! Dharmasena shakes his head initially and then raises the finger. Short of a length delivery just outside off stump , Zazai looks to defend , the ball just nips back in and takes the inside edge en route to the keeper. Second wicket for Hazlewood. Zazai c Haddin b Hazlewood 10 ( 40 ) Hazlewood to Zazai , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 36.1 Hazlewood to Zazai , no run , good length delivery on the off stump , Zazai defends it to mid-wicket 35.6 Johnson to Hamid , no run , edged , but does n't go to hand. Hamid pokes away from the body at this good length delivery and gets a thick edge , he played that with soft hands and hence it did not carry to Clarke at second slip 35.5 Johnson to Zazai , 1 run , just a hint of shape back into the right-hander on this yorker , Zazai digs it out towards mid-wicket 35.4 Johnson to Zazai , no run , gets right behind the line of this short of length delivery and defends well 35.3 Johnson to Hamid , 1 run , back of a length at the body , Hamid hops and fends it into the on-side 35.2 Johnson to Hamid , no run , very full outside off stump , Hamid digs it out Four slips in place for Johnson as well 35.1 Johnson to Hamid , no run , full and outside off stump , left alone Mitchell Johnson [ 6.0-0-18-3 ] is back into the attack Batting powerplay has been enforced . 34.6 Hazlewood to Zazai , no run , driven nicely off the front foot , but the bowler grabs the ball in his followthrough 34.5 Hazlewood to Zazai , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off stump , Zazai defends off the back foot 34.5 Hazlewood to Zazai , wide , that 's down the leg-side and an easy call for the umpire 34.4 Hazlewood to Zazai , no run , fullish and outside off stump , Zazai shoulders arms 34.3 Hazlewood to Zazai , no run , another fine yorker from Hazlewood , Zazai manages to keep it out 34.2 Hazlewood to Zazai , no run , bumper down the leg-side , Zazai ducks under it , one for the over says the umpire 34.1 Hazlewood to Zazai , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , left alone Drinks are on the field now. Australia are just moments away from sealing this encounter. After Clarke broke Shenwari 's 48-run stand with Mangal , Australia picked wickets at regular intervals to hurt Afghanistan. Clarke tried 7 bowling options as he wanted them to get some match practice . 33.6 Starc to Zazai , 1 run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Zazai turns it to deep square leg 33.5 Starc to Hamid , 1 run , this yorker goes as a low full toss , Hamid jams it out to deep backward point , in fact it went off a thickish outside edge 33.4 Starc to Hamid , no run , beaten ! Full and outside off stump , Hamid feels for the ball again 33.3 Starc to Hamid , no run , edgedddd but does n't carry. This full ball tails away very late , Hamid is completely opened up , Hamid tries to defend and gets a thick edge , Finch at first slip dives to his left , but it does n't carry to him. He does well to stop the ball though Four slips in place . 33.2 Starc to Hamid , no run , full and outside off stump , a swing and a miss from Hamid 33.1 Starc to Hamid , no run , stays round the wicket and delivers a short of length delivery that shapes away very late , Hamid pokes away from the body and gets beaten 32.6 Hazlewood to Hamid , 1 run , almost a yorker , Hamid drives it to mid-off 32.5 Hazlewood to Hamid , no run , back of a length on the stumps , Hamid defends 32.4 Hazlewood to Hamid , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Hamid is late on the pull and he hits it towards mid-off 32.3 Hazlewood to Zazai , 1 run , back of a length just outside off stump , Zazai gets behind the line and defends , gets a thickish edge that rolls wide of backward point 32.2 Hazlewood to Hamid , 1 run , another good yorker , Hamid digs it out to cover-point and gets off strike 32.1 Hazlewood to Hamid , no run , starts off with a yorker just outside off stump , Hamid does n't make contact A chance for Hazlewood to better his wickets tally . Josh Hazlewood [ 5.0-0-21-1 ] is back into the attack 31.6 Starc to Hamid , 1 run , ends the over with a short of length delivery down the leg-side , Hamid works it to deep square leg Hamid Hassan , right handed bat , comes to the crease Four slips in place . 31.5 Starc to Dawlat Zadran , out Bowled ! ! And he does it so easily , Mitchell Starc. A perfect yorker at the base of off stump , Dawlat goes leg-side and tries to dig it out , but misses and he 's bowled. Second wicket for Starc in 5 balls. Dawlat Zadran b Starc 0 ( 4 ) Starc to Dawlat Zadran , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 31.4 Starc to Dawlat Zadran , no run , again , he 's not bothered to get behind the line , goes leg-side and slashes , only to get beaten. Get it full and at the base of the stumps , Mitchell Starc 31.3 Starc to Dawlat Zadran , no run , Dawlat backs away very early , Starc bangs it short , the batsman tries to guide it over the slip cordon but does n't make contact 31.2 Starc to Dawlat Zadran , no run , another yorker from Starc , Dawlat backs away to play this , misses and it goes close to the off stump Dawlat Zadran , right handed bat , comes to the crease Switches to round the wicket . 31.1 Starc to Najibullah , out Bowled ! ! That is so Wasim Akramesque from Starc. Inswinging toe-crusher from Starc , Najibullah has no clue about it , does n't cover the line and misses it completely. The ball rattles into the base of middle stump. Starc gets his first wicket. Najibullah b Starc 24 ( 31 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] Starc to Najibullah , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 30.6 Maxwell to Zazai , no run , the quicker ball to end the over , Zazai misses the flick and gets hit high on the pad 30.5 Maxwell to Zazai , no run , waits for the ball to spin back in and turns it towards mid-wicket 30.4 Maxwell to Najibullah , 1 run , slowish and spinning away outside off stump , softly tapped to cover-point 30.3 Maxwell to Najibullah , SIX , that is a meaty blow ! Gee ! That went a long way into the stands. Bit of a taste of his own medicine for Maxi. In fact , it went into the upper tier. Flighted delivery just outside off stump , Najibullah dances down the track and absolutely smashes it over long-on 30.2 Maxwell to Najibullah , 2 runs , in the air and wide of the man at backward point. Flighted delivery outside off stump , Najibullah steps out and slices it uppishly , Starc runs back and saves two 30.1 Maxwell to Najibullah , no run , shortish and down the leg-side , Najibullah glances it to short fine leg 29.6 Starc to Zazai , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , left alone 29.5 Starc to Zazai , no run , fuller length delivery and on Zazai 's pads , flicked straight to the fielder at mid-wicket Starc changes to round the wicket 29.4 Starc to Zazai , no run , on a good length and on the stumps , Zazai is slightly opened up as he defends , wants a single as the ball rolled in front of cover , sent back by Najibullah 29.3 Starc to Zazai , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , draws Zazai forward before leaving him with the angle , Zazai prods at that and is beaten 29.2 Starc to Najibullah , 1 run , short and wide from Starc , slapped away square behind point for a single 29.1 Starc to Najibullah , no run , fuller length delivery and angling into Zadran 's pads , he falls over on the flick and is struck on the pads Mitchell Starc [ 3.0-0-14-0 ] is back into the attack 28.6 Maxwell to Zazai , no run , pushed through flatter and well outside off , left alone 28.5 Maxwell to Zazai , no run , tossed up and on off , Zazai prods across and blocks 28.4 Maxwell to Zazai , no run , slower and just outside off , Zazai lunges forward and blocks 28.3 Maxwell to Zazai , no run , tossed up and just outside off , punched straight to the fielder at mid-wicket Back over the wicket 28.2 Maxwell to Zazai , no run , flatter and on the stumps , turned straight to the fielder at backward square leg 28.1 Maxwell to Najibullah , 1 run , tossed up and well outside off , dropped in front of backward point for a single 27.6 Faulkner to Zazai , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Zazai plays with an open face and guides it towards backward point 27.5 Faulkner to Zazai , no run , another back of the hand slower ball , Zazai drills it straight to the fielder at mid-off 27.5 Faulkner to Zazai , wide , Faulkner goes for the back of the hand slower ball , but sprays it miles outside off , wide called Free Hit 27.5 Faulkner to Zazai , no ball , the bumper from Faulkner , Zazai ducks under it and lets it go. Faulkner has overstepped though 27.4 Faulkner to Zazai , no run , short of a length and on Zazai 's pads , he looks to flick and is struck high on the thigh pad 27.3 Faulkner to Zazai , 2 runs , the back of the hand slower ball from Faulkner , Zazai leans forward and places the drive past point for a brace 27.2 Faulkner to Zazai , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , driven straight to the fielder at mid-off 27.1 Faulkner to Zazai , no run , good short ball from Faulkner , well directed as well , Zazai does well to ride with the bounce , drops his wrists and sways away from the line 26.6 Maxwell to Najibullah , FOUR , that 's beautifully played by Zadran , good use of the feet , comes down the track and drills it back past the bowler , no need to run for those 26.5 Maxwell to Zazai , 3 runs , fraction short and wide from Maxwell , Zazai makes room and punches it square on the off-side. Warner chases it down and pulls the ball back in , saves a run for his team 26.4 Maxwell to Najibullah , 1 run , flighted and on off , dropped in front of point for a single 26.3 Maxwell to Najibullah , 2 runs , pushed through flatter and quicker , Zadran looks to cut , gets a thick top-edge past short third man , back for the second run 26.2 Maxwell to Najibullah , no run , tad shorter and just outside off , defended towards cover 26.1 Maxwell to Zazai , 1 run , flighted and on the stumps , driven down towards long-on for a single 25.6 Faulkner to Zazai , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Zazai pushes at that , gets a thick edge past second slip , a single to third man 25.5 Faulkner to Zazai , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Zazai rides with the bounce and defends it 25.4 Faulkner to Zazai , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , defended towards cover 25.3 Faulkner to Zazai , no run , back of a length and just outside off , pushed off the back foot and towards cover-point 25.2 Faulkner to Najibullah , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on Zadran 's pads , tucked straight to the fielder at square leg 25.1 Faulkner to Najibullah , no run , Faulkner follows Zadran as he backed away , he pushes at that , the ball stayed in the air for a while , drops well in front of the fielder at cover 24.6 Maxwell to Zazai , no run , tossed up and well outside off , Zazai shuffles across and blocks 24.5 Maxwell to Zazai , no run , flighted and just outside off , Zazai makes room and pushes it towards the off-side 24.4 Maxwell to Zazai , no run , tossed up and on Zazai 's pads , he looks to work it away towards the on-side , the ball lobs off the pads 24.3 Maxwell to Zazai , no run , the off-break from Maxwell , breaks back after pitching around off , hits Zazai high on the pads Afsar Zazai , right handed bat , comes to the crease 24.2 Maxwell to Nabi , out Caught by Clarke ! ! That 's as easy as it gets ! This was tossed up and on the stumps , Nabi went for the cheeky lap-sweep , gets undone by some extra bounce , the ball lobs off the top-edge , deflects off the shoulder and pops up in the air. Clarke was running back from slip , he stops , rushes forward and takes the catch. Nabi asked for the review , not sure why , but replays clearly indicated that there was some bat on that. There 's nothing on the Snicko , but the visuals were crystal clear , the umpire sends him on his way. Nabi c Clarke b Maxwell 2 ( 10 ) Maxwell to Nabi , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 24.1 Maxwell to Nabi , no run , flighted and on off , Nabi prods forward and blocks Glenn Maxwell , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 23.6 Faulkner to Najibullah , no run , full and on the pads , Zadran looks to flick and gets an inside edge onto the pads 23.5 Faulkner to Najibullah , no run , the bumper from Faulkner , Zadran thinks about the pull before letting it go through 23.4 Faulkner to Najibullah , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler 23.3 Faulkner to Najibullah , no run , on a length and just outside off , pushed towards cover 23.2 Faulkner to Nabi , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , eased square on the off-side for a single 23.1 Faulkner to Nabi , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Nabi gets a thick inside edge on the drive , the ball rolls away towards mid-on 22.6 Johnson to Najibullah , no run , short and rearing onto Zadran , he rides with the bounce and keeps it down 22.5 Johnson to Najibullah , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and on Zadran 's pads , worked past mid-wicket for a couple of runs Johnson changes to round the wicket 22.4 Johnson to Najibullah , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , dabbed away straight to the fielder at backward point 22.4 Johnson to Najibullah , wide , short and just outside off , Zadran bails out of a shot at the last moment , called as a wide for height 22.3 Johnson to Najibullah , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Zadran drives and is late on it , nearly edges it through to the keeper 22.2 Johnson to Nabi , 1 run , Johnson keeps it full and well outside off , Nabi drives and gets a thick edge towards third man for a single 22.1 Johnson to Najibullah , 1 run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , blocked wide of cover for a single 21.6 Faulkner to Nabi , no run , Faulkner takes a tumble on his followthrough , length ball on off , defended in front of cover 21.5 Faulkner to Najibullah , 1 run , the back of the hand slower ball from Faulkner , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single 21.4 Faulkner to Najibullah , no run , on a good length and on the stumps , defended back towards the bowler 21.3 Faulkner to Najibullah , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Zadran prods half-forward and blocks it towards cover 21.2 Faulkner to Najibullah , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , jammed back towards the bowler 21.1 Faulkner to Najibullah , no run , short of a length and well outside off , slapped straight to the fielder at backward point , he throws down the stumps at the bowler 's end , but Nabi was well in James Faulkner , comes into the attack 20.6 Johnson to Nabi , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , left alone 20.5 Johnson to Nabi , no run , back of a length and just outside off , defended with an angled bat and towards point 20.4 Johnson to Najibullah , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , pushed past extra cover for a single 20.4 Johnson to Najibullah , wide , full and sliding down leg-side , called as a wide 20.3 Johnson to Najibullah , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Zadran makes a late call to play at that , the ball was past him even before his bat came down 20.2 Johnson to Najibullah , no run , another short ball , just outside off , Zadran drops his gloves and lets it go through Najibullah Zadran , left handed bat , comes to the crease 20.1 Johnson to Nawroz , out Caught by Finch ! ! That 's a screamer from Finch at 1st slip ! This was short and just outside off , Mangal arched back and helped it on its way , looked to be a safe shot. Finch dives across to his right , holds onto the catch with both hands and falls over , with the ball safely perched in his hands. That 's a catch and a half , all of a sudden , Afghanistan have lost half their side. Nawroz c Finch b Johnson 33 ( 35 ) [ 4s-2 6s-2 ] Johnson to Nawroz , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 19.6 Clarke to Nabi , no run , flighted and just outside off , driven towards cover-point 19.5 Clarke to Nabi , no run , tossed up and just outside off , Nabi prods forward and blocks Mohammad Nabi , right handed bat , comes to the crease 19.4 Clarke to Shenwari , out Caught by Johnson ! ! That 's a soft dismissal for Shenwari ! This was tossed up and on the leg-stump line , Shenwari went for the sweep , is done in by the extra bounce , does n't roll his wrists and ends up getting a top-edge. Johnson settles underneath the dolly at short fine and Afghanistan have lost their fourth wicket. Shenwari c Johnson b Clarke 17 ( 31 ) [ 4s-2 ] Clarke to Shenwari , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 19.3 Clarke to Shenwari , no run , flighted delivery and on Shenwari 's pads , he looks to sweep and gets a bottom edge towards short fine leg 19.2 Clarke to Nawroz , 1 run , tossed up and on off , driven down towards long-on for a single 19.1 Clarke to Nawroz , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , Mangal goes hard on the drive and misses. Haddin whips the bails off , but Mangal did n't go anywhere 18.6 Johnson to Shenwari , FOUR , and that 's a fine reply by Shenwari , tad fuller and just outside off , Shenwari gets half-forward and punches it past mid-off for a boundary 18.5 Johnson to Shenwari , no run , that 's nasty ! This was banged in short by Johnson , Shenwari was hopping as he looked to ride with the bounce , misses and is hit on the chest , he does n't wince in pain though , just gets ready for the next ball 18.4 Johnson to Shenwari , no run , almost a catch to backward point , short of a length and angling across the right-hander , he closed the face of the bat as he hopped across , the leading edge is found , drops well in front of the advancing fielder 18.3 Johnson to Shenwari , no run , the yorker from Johnson , slanting across the right-hander , Shenwari was looking to squeeze it towards third man and missed 18.2 Johnson to Shenwari , no run , tad fuller and shaping away from outside off , left alone 18.1 Johnson to Shenwari , no run , on a good length and slanting away from outside off , left alone 18.1 Johnson to Shenwari , wide , fuller length delivery and miles outside off , wide called Mitchell Johnson [ 3.0-0-6-2 ] is back into the attack 17.6 Clarke to Shenwari , 1 run , the sweep from Shenwari , almost found the fielder at backward square leg , got down on his knees and swept hard , goes to the fielder on the bounce 17.5 Clarke to Shenwari , no run , flatter and just outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover 17.4 Clarke to Nawroz , 1 run , this one is given more flight , eased down towards long-on for a run 17.3 Clarke to Nawroz , no run , flighted and just outside off , driven back towards the bowler 17.2 Clarke to Nawroz , no run , tossed up and on the off-stump line , Nawroz backs away and cuts it straight to the fielder at point 17.1 Clarke to Shenwari , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , back foot drive towards long-on for a single Ahmadi followed his partner back to the pavilion. He looked to guide Hazlewood over the slip cordon and was caught by Clarke. That dismissal just indicates Afghanistan 's batsmen lack the experience , as on a wicket that offers pace and bounce , looking to guide it over the slip cordon is a high-risk shot. To make it worse for Afghanistan , Asghar Stanikzai , one of the better players in their camp , threw his wicket away with a wild slog , as Johnson picked up his second wicket. Nawroz Mangal , with his pyrotechnics , then hoicked Mitchell Marsh for a couple of sixes. Undoubtedly , Afghanistan need Mangal to compile a fine knock to take them to a total of some respectability . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the first 17 overs : Mitchell Starc bowled with scorching pace , swung the new ball and extracted bounce. His new ball partner , Josh Hazlewood , too produced bounce though , he struggled with his line. However , to the credit of Afghanistan 's openers , they tried to play late and left the ball rather well. As the openers were showing decent technique and application , Michael Clarke introduced Mitchell Johnson into the attack , and he took the first wicket by dismissing Usman Ghani. It was not a bad shot by Ghani , but unfortunately for him , he hit it straight to James Faulkner , fielding at straightish mid-wicket . Drinks are on the field now 16.6 M Marsh to Nawroz , no run , that 's a wild slog from Nawroz , backed away to a length ball , was aiming to go over square leg , misses it completely 16.5 M Marsh to Shenwari , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , punched off the back foot and towards sweeper cover for a single 16.4 M Marsh to Shenwari , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Shenwari rides with the bounce and defends it towards cover-point 16.3 M Marsh to Shenwari , no run , that 's a cracker , short of a length and coming back with the angle , straightens at the last moment , Shenwari pushes forward and is beaten by a long way 16.2 M Marsh to Shenwari , no run , short of a length and holding its line outside off , left alone Marsh grimaced on his followthrough , he did n't look 100 % at the end of the last over as well , but he 's going to continue 16.1 M Marsh to Shenwari , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Shenwari drive it sweetly and to the left of mid-off , Johnson fumbles and allows a couple of runs 15.6 Clarke to Nawroz , 2 runs , the lap sweep from Mangal , goes low and well outside off , gets it fine and comes back for the second run 15.5 Clarke to Shenwari , 1 run , low full-toss from Clarke , driven towards long-off for a single 15.4 Clarke to Shenwari , no run , full and just outside off , punched back towards the bowler 15.3 Clarke to Shenwari , no run , flighted and on the stumps , blocked back towards the bowler 15.2 Clarke to Shenwari , no run , tossed up and on off , Shenwari lunges forward and blocks 15.1 Clarke to Nawroz , 1 run , Mangal comes down the track and eases a flighted delivery towards long-on for a single 14.6 M Marsh to Shenwari , no run , Marsh shortens his length and gets this one to shape away from outside off , left alone 14.6 M Marsh to Shenwari , wide , the bumper from Marsh , too short and too high , called as a wide 14.5 M Marsh to Shenwari , FOUR , nicely played by Shenwari , this was short and just outside off , Shenwari stays back and cracks it square past point. Warner gives the chase , dives headlong and pulls the ball back in , as he did so , his hands were touching the cushions , it 's been signalled as a boundary 14.4 M Marsh to Nawroz , 1 run , too straight from Marsh , worked past square leg for a single 14.3 M Marsh to Nawroz , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Mangal gets well forward and drives it towards mid-off 14.2 M Marsh to Shenwari , 1 run , short and wide from Marsh , Shenwari flays it away off the back foot , gets a thick edge towards third man , goes to the fielder on the bounce 14.1 M Marsh to Shenwari , no run , the bumper from Marsh , Shenwari ducks under it and lets it go 13.6 Clarke to Nawroz , no run , tossed up and on off , Nawroz looks to drive and gets an inside edge towards mid-wicket 13.5 Clarke to Nawroz , no run , flatter and just outside off , Nawroz backs away for the cut and mistimes it towards point 13.4 Clarke to Nawroz , 2 runs , Clarke drops this one short and just outside off , Mangal makes room and punches it square on the off-side for a brace 13.3 Clarke to Nawroz , no run , slower and on middle , Nawroz prods forward and blocks 13.2 Clarke to Shenwari , 1 run , pushed through by Clarke , eased down towards long-on for a single 13.1 Clarke to Nawroz , 1 run , flighted delivery and on middle , punched towards long-on for a single 12.6 M Marsh to Shenwari , byes , FOUR , expensive over from Marsh , he goes for the wide yorker , squeezes it underneath 's Shenwari 's bat as he went for the drive , Haddin ca n't collect it cleanly , the ball races away to the fence 12.5 M Marsh to Nawroz , 3 runs , this is the best of the lot , but it gets him only three runs , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Mangal leans forward and caresses it square past cover , runs hard and gets back for the third run 12.4 M Marsh to Nawroz , SIX , another biggie ! This was full and came back with the angle , Mangal clears his left leg and swings it through the line , clears deep square leg with ease 12.3 M Marsh to Nawroz , SIX , that 's massive from Mangal , he 's had enough of blocking and prodding , length ball on off , Mangal clears his left leg and hoicks it high and over wide long-on , massive hit into the stands 12.2 M Marsh to Nawroz , no run , Marsh shortens his length and gets this one to nip back into Mangal , he was late in coming forward , gets an inside edge onto his stomach 12.1 M Marsh to Nawroz , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven straight to the fielder at mid-off Mitchell Marsh , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 11.6 Clarke to Shenwari , no run , Clarke gives this one more air , Shenwari prods forward in defence , gets an inside edge towards the on-side 11.5 Clarke to Shenwari , no run , flatter and on Shenwari 's pads , nudged towards short fine 11.4 Clarke to Shenwari , no run , slower and just outside off , Shenwari presses forward and drives it towards mid-off 11.3 Clarke to Shenwari , no run , pushed through by Clarke , comes back with the angle , Shenwari was prodding forward and is rapped on the pads , the impact was on leg and would have missed the stumps 11.2 Clarke to Nawroz , 1 run , flighted delivery and just outside off , driven down towards long-off 11.1 Clarke to Shenwari , 1 run , tossed up and well outside leg , Shenwari gets down on his knees and laps it towards short fine It was actually Marsh 's catch , he was running in , but Smith kept his eyes all along , takes it over his shoulder and makes sure that he did n't run into Marsh. Good catching technique there . Michael Clarke , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 10.6 Johnson to Nawroz , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Mangal gets across and defends it with an open face , the ball rolls away towards point 10.5 Johnson to Nawroz , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , Mangal pushes forward and is beaten on the angle 10.4 Johnson to Nawroz , no run , short and just outside off , Mangal rides with the bounce and defends it 10.3 Johnson to Nawroz , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Nawroz presses across and defends it towards point Samiullah Shenwari , right handed bat , comes to the crease 10.2 Johnson to Stanikzai , out Caught by S Smith ! ! This was bound to happen ! Stanikzai was throwing his bat at everything , this was full and just outside off , Stanikzai cleared his left-leg , opened up the off-side and looked to clear cover , gets a thick outside edge , gets a lot of height. Smith runs back from backward point , Marsh runs in from third man. Smith watched it all along and cusps it with both hands , just about avoids bumping into Marsh. Second wicket for Johnson. Stanikzai c S Smith b Johnson 4 ( 10 ) Johnson to Stanikzai , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 10.1 Johnson to Stanikzai , 2 runs , another almighty slog from Stanikzai , and he gets away with a thickish outside edge , there was room for the drive , he gets a lot of height and just about clears Warner running back from point 9.6 Hazlewood to Nawroz , no run , the bumper from Hazlewood , Mangal ducks underneath it and lets it go 9.5 Hazlewood to Nawroz , FOUR , back-to-back boundaries for Nawroz , full and just outside off , Mangal drives it hard onto the ground , the ball bounces over the bowler 's head and races away to the fence 9.4 Hazlewood to Nawroz , FOUR , lovely shot , pleasing off-drive from Nawroz , presses forward , meets the ball on top of the bounce and drives it back past the bowler 9.3 Hazlewood to Nawroz , no run , tad fuller and on off , Mangal gets half-forward and defends it towards the on-side 9.2 Hazlewood to Nawroz , no run , short of a length and on the off-stump channel , Mangal presses across and defends it towards the on-side 9.1 Hazlewood to Nawroz , no run , Mangal looks more composed though , gets right behind the line to a full ball and blocks 8.6 Johnson to Stanikzai , no run , four swings and Stanikzai ca n't connect anyone properly , looks like he 's come out on a mission to launch Johnson over the stadium , again meets thin air on the drive 8.6 Johnson to Stanikzai , wide , full and well outside off , Stanikzai slashes at that and misses , called as a wide 8.5 Johnson to Stanikzai , no run , almost an action replay , this was full and wide from Johnson , Stanikzai went hard on the aggressive off-drive , gets an inside edge , Maxwell at FSL gets a hand onto it and prevents runs 8.4 Johnson to Stanikzai , no run , aggression from Stanikzai , this was full and wide outside off , Stanikzai was hanging back , goes for an ambitious drive , goes hard on the shot , loses his shape and gets an inside edge onto the pads 8.3 Johnson to Stanikzai , 2 runs , short and on the stumps , Stanikzai swivels across on the pull , the ball is too quick for him , gets an inside edge and behind square on the on-side for a couple 8.2 Johnson to Stanikzai , no run , that 's brilliantly stopped by Warner at point ! Saves four runs for his team , this was short and well outside off , Stanikzai got on top of the bounce and hammered the cut. Warner leaps across to his right and stops it cleanly 8.1 Johnson to Stanikzai , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Stanikzai gets behind the line and defends it 7.6 Hazlewood to Stanikzai , leg byes , 1 run , short of a length and angling into Stanikzai 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball lobs past FSL off the thigh pad 7.5 Hazlewood to Stanikzai , no run , short and wide from Hazlewood , Stanikzai throws the kitchen sink at that and misses. Finch , at 1st slip was excited , but no one else joined him in the appeal Asghar Stanikzai , right handed bat , comes to the crease 7.4 Hazlewood to Ahmadi , out Caught by Clarke ! ! That 's catching practice for Clarke at 2nd slip ! Short of a length and holding its line outside off , extra bounce on that for Hazlewood. Ahmadi backed away and looked to clear the cordon with the steer , only manages to get a thick edge and it 's a straightforward catch to the Australian captain. Afghanistan have lost both openers now. Ahmadi c Clarke b Hazlewood 13 ( 24 ) [ 4s-1 ] Hazlewood to Ahmadi , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 7.3 Hazlewood to Ahmadi , no run , short and just outside off , Ahmadi arches back and looks to ramp it over the keeper , misses it completely 7.2 Hazlewood to Ahmadi , no run , Nawroz has saved a boundary for Australia ! This was full and on the stumps , Ahmadi played on the up and punched it straight back towards the non-striker , Nawroz did n't have any time to get out of the way , gets a smack right on his leg 7.1 Hazlewood to Ahmadi , 2 runs , Ahmadi decides to wield the long handle , does n't get hold of the shot but manages to clear the fielder at extra cover , back for the second run 6.6 Johnson to Nawroz , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Mangal covers the line , watches the ball all the way as it goes through to the keeper 6.5 Johnson to Nawroz , no run , Mangal is beaten for pace once again ! Tad fuller and nipping back in , Nawroz was hopping across on the defensive push , misses and is hit high on the thigh-pad 6.4 Johnson to Nawroz , no run , on a good length and angling back into Mangal , he was caught in a tangle as he looked to flick and missed , gets struck high on the pads Nawroz Mangal , right handed bat , comes to the crease 6.3 Johnson to Usman Ghani , out Caught by Faulkner ! ! Unlucky for Ghani ! He hit this one pretty well , but ends up hitting it straight to straightish short mid-wicket ! This was full and jagged back in sharply , Ghani shuffled across on the flick , used the bottom hand to good effect as he punched , did n't keep it on the ground though and finds Faulkner to perfection. Australia have their first wicket. Usman Ghani c Faulkner b Johnson 12 ( 19 ) Johnson to Usman Ghani , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 6.3 Johnson to Usman Ghani , wide , short and well down leg-side , left alone. Wide called by the umpire 6.2 Johnson to Usman Ghani , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Ghani prods across and defends it 6.1 Johnson to Usman Ghani , leg byes , FOUR , wrong line from Johnson , full and on Ghani 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball clips the pads and races away to the fence Mitchell Johnson , comes into the attack 5.6 Hazlewood to Ahmadi , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Ahmadi punches it uppishly but straight to the fielder at sily mid-on , Ghani was backing up , the fielder has a shy and misses , but Ghani was well in 5.5 Hazlewood to Ahmadi , no run , back of a length and in that channel around off , defended towards backward point 5.4 Hazlewood to Ahmadi , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , defended towards mid-on 5.3 Hazlewood to Ahmadi , no run , on a length and coming back with the angle , Ahmadi gets an inside edge towards short-leg 5.2 Hazlewood to Usman Ghani , 1 run , much better from Hazlewood , on a good length and shaping away , Ghani pushes at that , gets a thick edge that flies away towards third man 5.2 Hazlewood to Usman Ghani , wide , Hazlewood slips another one down leg-side , another extra added to the total 5.2 Hazlewood to Usman Ghani , wide , short and well down leg-side , Ghani looks to pull and misses , called as a wide 5.1 Hazlewood to Usman Ghani , no run , that 's the first real bad shot from Ghani , this was full and shaping away late , lures Ghani into the drive and is beaten on the outside edge 4.6 Starc to Usman Ghani , 1 run , fuller length delivery and a hint of swing back into Ghani , pushed past short-leg for a single 4.5 Starc to Usman Ghani , 2 runs , back of a length and on Ghani 's hips , he drops his bottom hand and nudges it behind square on the on-side for a couple 4.4 Starc to Usman Ghani , 2 runs , tad fuller and just outside off , Ghani presses forward and eases it past cover-point , gets back for the second run 4.3 Starc to Usman Ghani , no run , Starc shortens his length and gets this one to angle across the right-hander , left alone 4.2 Starc to Usman Ghani , no run , short and angling across the right-hander , Ghani drops his wrists and lets it go 4.1 Starc to Ahmadi , 1 run , almost chopped on ! On a good length and holding its line outside off , Ahmadi frails at that and gets an inside edge past the leg-stump , a single to long-leg 3.6 Hazlewood to Usman Ghani , 2 runs , too straight from Hazlewood , ends up drifting onto Ghani 's pads , flicked away past mid-wicket for a couple of runs 3.5 Hazlewood to Usman Ghani , no run , the bumper from Hazlewood , Ghani ducks under it and lets it go 3.4 Hazlewood to Usman Ghani , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Ghani gets a good stride forward and drives it past cover , back for the second run 3.3 Hazlewood to Ahmadi , 3 runs , that 's much better from Ahmadi , tad fuller and wider outside off , Ahmadi reaches out and pushes it past cover-point. Warner chases it down and keeps them down to three runs 3.2 Hazlewood to Ahmadi , no run , on a good length and on the stumps , Ahmadi shuffles across and defends it 3.1 Hazlewood to Ahmadi , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , Ahmadi stays rooted to his crease as he pokes away from his body , lucky not to have edged it 2.6 Starc to Usman Ghani , no run , on a good length and just outside off , pushed to the right of cover-point , he wanted a single and is sent back 2.5 Starc to Usman Ghani , no run , that 's an excellent delivery from Starc , but equally well played by Ghani , this was full and tailing back at 150 kmph , Ghani watches it all along , gets his bat down and defends it towards the on-side 2.4 Starc to Usman Ghani , no run , on a good length and a hint of nip back into Ghani , he was pushing forward and gets an inside edge onto his thigh pad 2.3 Starc to Ahmadi , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed away towards third man for a single 2.2 Starc to Ahmadi , no run , Starc keeps this one full and well outside off , Ahmadi nearly throws his bat at that , withdraws at the last moment and lets it go 2.1 Starc to Ahmadi , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , Ahmadi throws his bat and misses by a long way 1.6 Hazlewood to Usman Ghani , no run , Ghani is looking technically better ! Gets well behind the line to an outswinger and drives it towards mid-off , a high elbow and coming down with a straight bat 1.5 Hazlewood to Usman Ghani , no run , on a good length and a hint of wobble on off , Ghani presses across and defends it 1.4 Hazlewood to Ahmadi , 1 run , that 's much better from Ahmadi , swivels across to a short ball and helps it along its way towards fine leg , goes to the fielder on the bounce 1.3 Hazlewood to Ahmadi , no run , Ahmadi is looking to be attacking , charges down the track to an outswinger and misses by a long way 1.2 Hazlewood to Ahmadi , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , Ahmadi is drawn into the big drive , is beaten on the outside edge 1.1 Hazlewood to Ahmadi , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping back into Ahmadi , he looks to flick and misses , gets hit high on the pads Josh Hazlewood , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Starc to Usman Ghani , 2 runs , on a good length and a hint of shape back in , Ghani pushes forward and gets an inside edge past mid-wicket. Ahmadi wants a second run , the throw goes to the bowler 's end , a better throw might have had Ahmadi in trouble 0.5 Starc to Ahmadi , 1 run , on a good length and shaping back in , Ahmadi pushes forward and gets an inside edge towards square leg. Maxwell shies at the bowler 's end and misses , would have been four overthrows had Johnson not made a diving stop 0.4 Starc to Ahmadi , no run , shout for LBW , but it looked like it was missing leg ! This was pitched up around middle and nipped back in , Ahmadi was caught in his crease as he looked to defend , all the three stumps were visible , the impact was on the leg-stump and would just have clipped it 0.3 Starc to Ahmadi , FOUR , Ahmadi gets going with a boundary , this was full and well outside off , Ahmadi jammed his bat down , ends up squeezing it between the keeper and 1st slip , races away to the fence 0.2 Starc to Ahmadi , no run , fuller length delivery and a hint of shape back into Ahmadi , he covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 0.1 Starc to Ahmadi , no run , fuller length delivery and a hint of nip back into Ahmadi , he exposes his off-stump as he let it go , good leave in the end Ahmadi and Usman Ghani are at the crease. Ahmadi is on strike. Starc will open the attack Two slips and a short-leg in place as Starc steams in Welcome back.. 18-year-old Usman Ghani is making his WC debut , not ideal - facing Johnson and Starc at the WACA. But that 's how things go . Smith : " For us it was just about batting and getting a good score on the board. It was nice to spend some time in the middle there. It was pretty easy out there with Davey at the other end. It was pretty hot out there early on but it cooled down later on with the breeze. When you get 400 on the board , you always feel confident. Hopefully we can bowl well and make it a comprehensive win. " For Afghanistan , Dawlat gave a good account of himself with the new ball by pitching it up though , he came in for some severe punishment in the end overs. Other seamers were n't up to the mark either. It was also interesting to see that Afghanistan 's off-spinners did n't use the arm ball extensively. With the south-west breeze coming into play , an off-spinner can get it to hold it up in the air. Afghanistan perhaps would rue the fact that they decided to bowl first. It also has to be said that Afghanistan 's fielding was average. Now , they have the uphill task of facing up to a fine Australian pace attack . Once Warner was dismissed , Maxwell with his brilliance stunned the opposition into silence as well. Afghanistan did n't help their cause by bowling a slew of full tosses and Maxwell took heavy toll of it. To their credit , the seamers looked to bowl the yorker , but as soon as they missed it , Maxwell would hoick it across the line. He then , started to toy with the lengths of Afghanistan 's pacers , and played a jaw-dropping reverse sweep and it turned out to be a six. In fact , Maxwell smashed a crunching fifty in just 21 balls. It was the joint third fastest fifty in World Cups. Unfortunately for Afghanistan , it continued to rain fours and sixes from Maxwell 's willow and when Shapoor bowled one on the pads , with a mere flick of the wrists , he clobbered it for six. In all this mayhem , one has to also remember that Smith played with a mature head on his shoulders to compile a fine knock of 95 . It was an innings , where Warner took full advantage of anything that was banged in short and when the seamers bowled a fuller length , he hammered it down the ground. In short , Warner made what seemed like a decent pace attack on paper look utterly pedestrian. After Dawlat Zadran generated a bit of swing and snared the wicket of Aaron Finch , Warner took over by mercilessly thwacking Afghanistan 's seamers. Hamid Hassan , who tested the middle of the pitch , was duly punished by Warner as he used the cut and the pull to good effect. Once Warner reached his century , with his breathtaking fluency , he floored the opposition ranks into submission. He smashed Dawlat and his new ball partner , Shapoor Zadran , for fours and sixes. In particular , the way he thumped a half volley off Shapoor 's bowling over the long-on region for a six in the 32nd over of the innings , gave a glimpse of his exceptional bat-speed . David Warner , with a volley of stunning strokes , blazed his way to compose a wondrous innings of 178 in a mere 133 balls and helped Australia to reach a monstrous score on the board. Glenn Maxwell too with his majestic brilliance amassed a magnificent knock. Warner 's innings turned out to be the highest individual score by an Australian in World Cups. He and Steven Smith also stitched the highest partnership for any wicket for Australia in ODIs. To put the icing on the cake , Australia 's total of 417 for 6 is now the highest score in World Cups . 49.6 Nawroz to M Marsh , out Caught by Najibullah ! ! Slower through the air and a little shorter in length from Mangal , Marsh advances , but does n't get to the pitch of the ball , yet goes through with the slog. He hits it flat and picks out deep mid-wicket. M Marsh c Najibullah b Nawroz 8 ( 9 ) Nawroz to M Marsh , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 49.5 Nawroz to Haddin , 1 run , Haddin swings hard but mistimes the drive to long-on 49.4 Nawroz to Haddin , FOUR , this time Mangal goes very full , Haddin goes leg-side and hits it straight back past the bowler for four more 49.3 Nawroz to Haddin , SIX , too short , Haddin rocks back and smashes it back over long-off , he 's hit it very well and it sails over the boundary 49.2 Nawroz to M Marsh , 1 run , flatter ball from Mangal , Marsh smashes it straight to long-off 49.1 Nawroz to M Marsh , 2 runs , down the track , hit very hard , but long-off runs to his right , fumbles the ball but recovers quickly to fire a the throw back to the bowler Nawroz Mangal , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 48.6 Hamid to M Marsh , 1 run , full and outside off stump , mistimed drive to long-on 48.5 Hamid to Haddin , 1 run , very full from Hamid , Haddin backs away and drives it to deep extra-cover 48.4 Hamid to M Marsh , 1 run , yorker goes as a low full toss , drilled to long-on 48.3 Hamid to Haddin , 1 run , this is the third time a team has scored 400 in this World Cup. Short of a length delivery on the leg stump , Haddin pulls it to deep mid-wicket 48.2 Hamid to M Marsh , 1 run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Marsh mistimes the pull to mid-wicket. The ball hurried onto him 48.1 Hamid to Haddin , 1 run , full and following the batsman as he backs away , hit uppishly to long-on 47.6 Dawlat Zadran to Haddin , 1 run , slower ball on the off stump , softly guided to backward point 47.5 Dawlat Zadran to Haddin , FOUR , clever batting from Haddin ! Pace on offer from the bowler , Haddin goes leg-side , with third man inside the ring , just opens the face of the bat at the last moment and guides it very fine for four 47.4 Dawlat Zadran to M Marsh , 1 run , slower ball goes a little short , Marsh mistimes the pull to deep square leg 47.3 Dawlat Zadran to Haddin , 1 run , yorker following the batsman , driven to long-on Brad Haddin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 47.2 Dawlat Zadran to Maxwell , out Caught by Nabi ! ! In the air , that 's a bullet but Nabi has caught it. Brilliant take ! Slower ball just outside off stump , Maxwell picks it early , waits and absolutely smashes it hard , extra-cover runs to his left , times his jumps to perfection and takes it with both hands above his left shoulder. Maxwell has missed out on a chance to score the fastest World Cup hundred. Maxwell c Nabi b Dawlat Zadran 88 ( 39 ) [ 4s-6 6s-7 ] Dawlat Zadran to Maxwell , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Mid-off has been pushed back now ! 47.1 Dawlat Zadran to Maxwell , FOUR , no Dawlat Zadran ! Ca n't bowl full tosses at this stage , Maxwell does n't try to do anything fancy , just lofts it over mid-off and picks up four more Dawlat Zadran [ 9.0-1-90-1 ] is back into the attack Good over in the context of the game. Just 4 runs and the wicket of Faulkner in it . 46.6 Hamid to Maxwell , 1 run , yorker dug out to mid-off , the fielder fires a direct-hit but Maxwell was well in 46.5 Hamid to Maxwell , 2 runs , in the air but long-off is inside the ring. Excellent fielding by Shenwari running back from mid-on , he just manages to flick it back in time. Slower ball goes a little short , Maxwell mistimes the slog over the field , but just has enough to clear the fielder 46.4 Hamid to Maxwell , no run , full toss following Maxwell as he backs away , the batsman mistimes it to mid-off 46.3 Hamid to M Marsh , 1 run , low full toss on the leg stump , Marsh drives it to long-on 46.2 Hamid to M Marsh , no run , another good yorker , dug out back to the bowler Mitchell Marsh , right handed bat , comes to the crease 46.1 Hamid to Faulkner , out Bowled ! ! My word ! That is a real toe-crusher at 140.9kph. Finisher Faulkner just manages to his right boot out of the way. Late inswing on this one , Faulkner backs away and tries to dig it out , but it sneaks through and hits the base of middle and leg. Lasith Malinga , Wasim Akram and Waqar Younis , all will be proud of that ball. Faulkner b Hamid 7 ( 6 ) [ 4s-1 ] Hamid to Faulkner , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Hamid Hassan [ 8.0-0-60-0 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Nabi to Maxwell , SIX , bangggg ! Flighted delivery on the stumps , Maxwell steps out , gets to the pitch of the ball and easily lofts it over long-on. He 's moved onto 81 off just 34 balls Nabi stops as Maxwell goes early into the reverse sweep . 45.5 Nabi to Maxwell , 2 runs , low full toss , swung away wide of long-on 45.4 Nabi to Faulkner , 1 run , fired in on middle , flicked it to long-on 45.3 Nabi to Maxwell , 1 run , shortish from Nabi , Maxwell mistimes the slog to long-on 45.2 Nabi to Maxwell , no run , oh a stumping chance missed. Nabi fires it in on seeing Maxwell give the charge , the ball goes through Maxwell 's legs and the keeper fumbles. Maxwell was a long way out of the crease 45.1 Nabi to Maxwell , SIX , how high has this gone ? It 's a clean strike and it goes all the way over long-on. Flighted fuller length from Nabi , Maxwell advances and muscles it out of the park Shapoor ends 10-0-89-2 . 44.6 Shapoor to Maxwell , 1 run , low full toss on the off stump , Maxwell turns it to wide long-on and keeps strike 44.5 Shapoor to Maxwell , 2 runs , excellent yorker on the leg stump , Maxwell digs it out , there is no one at mid-wicket. Shapoor reacts very late and by then , Maxwell turned back for the second run 44.5 Shapoor to Maxwell , no ball , oh no ! That 's a high full toss above waist height and the umpire warns him for bowling a beamer. Maxwell tries to swing it away over point but misses 44.4 Shapoor to Maxwell , SIX , that 's just a flick of the wrists , but it 's gone all the way ! Gee ! He 's a stong man ! Full and on the leg stump , Maxwell plays a stylish flick and it flies over deep square leg 44.3 Shapoor to Faulkner , 1 run , full and on the off stump , driven down to long-on Michael Clarke is a happy man in the dressing room . 44.2 Shapoor to Faulkner , FOUR , full and wide outside off stump , Faulkner swings hard , gets it from the bottom of the bat , ends up slicing it over backward point 44.1 Shapoor to Maxwell , 1 run , fine yorker outside off stump , Maxwell digs it out towards point 43.6 Nabi to Maxwell , 1 run , slower through the air , Maxwell drives it down to long-on , the bowler dived to his right but could n't stop the ball 43.5 Nabi to Maxwell , no run , tries the reverse sweep again , misses and gets hit on the pad. Nabi appeals for LBW , maybe the ball hit him outside the line of off stump 43.4 Nabi to Maxwell , 2 runs , fullish outside off stump , drilled to long-off 43.3 Nabi to Maxwell , FOUR , 11th ODI fifty for Maxwell and he 's got there with another reverse sweep. He raises his bat and acknowledges the applause. High full toss outside off stump , Maxwell hits it over backward point for four more 43.2 Nabi to Maxwell , 2 runs , it 's in the air , but safe. Maxwell mistimes the slog , but the deep mid-wicket fielder does n't get there despite running forward 43.1 Nabi to Faulkner , 1 run , flatter ball outside off stump , Faulkner punches it to long-on Mohammad Nabi [ 8.0-0-58-0 ] is back into the attack 42.6 Shapoor to Faulkner , leg byes , 1 run , bit of extra bounce on this short of length delivery , Faulkner was surprised by the bounce , he looks to defend but the ball goes off the arm towards third man James Faulkner , right handed bat , comes to the crease 42.5 Shapoor to S Smith , out Caught by Najibullah ! ! Oh ! That is a very soft dismissal for Smith. He ca n't believe he 's hit it straight to the fielder. Full and in the slot , Smith does n't hit this hard , just lofts it gently and picks out mid-off to perfection. Shapoor gets his second wicket. End of a good knock from Smith. He falls 5 runs short of a well deserved 100. S Smith c Najibullah b Shapoor 95 ( 98 ) [ 4s-8 6s-1 ] Shapoor to S Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 42.4 Shapoor to Maxwell , 3 runs , short of length delivery outside off stump , Maxwell slogs hard , gets a thickish inside edge , oh , the fielder at backward square leg fumbles and allows three runs 42.4 Shapoor to Maxwell , wide , attempts the short ball , but bowls it down the leg-side , Maxwell ducks under it 42.3 Shapoor to Maxwell , SIX , it 's a reverse sweep six ! Low full toss outside off stump , Maxwell helps it away on its way and it flies over short third man. It goes flat , but clears the rope 42.2 Shapoor to Maxwell , FOUR , just misses the yorker , goes as a full ball , Maxwell plays a flicky-slog , hits it along the ground and sends it to the deep mid-wicket boundary. He went deep in the crease for that ball 42.1 Shapoor to Maxwell , no run , yorker on the off stump , dug out by Smith , Shapoor dives to his right in his followthrough and grabs the ball 42.1 Shapoor to Maxwell , no run Shapoor Zadran [ 8.0-0-59-1 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Dawlat Zadran to Maxwell , 1 run , fantastic yorker on middle and leg , Maxwell digs it out to extra-cover 41.5 Dawlat Zadran to Maxwell , no run , that ca n't be a wide. Widish slower ball , Maxwell lets it go but it was well inside the line 41.5 Dawlat Zadran to Maxwell , wide , oops ! Dawlat Zadran sprays this slower ball way outside off stump 41.4 Dawlat Zadran to Maxwell , FOUR , oh my ! ! This is insane stuff from Maxi ! He 's reverse swept this almost all the way. He picks the slower delivery , it was very full and close to the off stump , Maxwell hits it very well and it flies over short third man 41.3 Dawlat Zadran to S Smith , 1 run , slower ball goes very short , Smith cuts it to the right of third man 41.2 Dawlat Zadran to S Smith , no run , low full toss outside off stump , Smith drives it to extra-cover 41.1 Dawlat Zadran to S Smith , 2 runs , just misses the yorker , around middle stump line , Smith flicks it along the ground through backward square leg 40.6 Nabi to Maxwell , SIX , another full toss and Maxwell does n't miss out. This time it 's down the leg-side and Maxwell goes over backward square leg. Australia have scored 30 runs in the last 2 overs 40.5 Nabi to Maxwell , SIX , misses the yorker , goes as a full toss , Maxwell muscles it way back over wide long-on. Ca n't afford to miss your length against Maxwell 40.4 Nabi to Maxwell , no run , fantastic yorker , Maxwell digs it out to mid-wicket 40.3 Nabi to Maxwell , no run , high full toss , hit hard but back to the bowler 40.2 Nabi to S Smith , byes , 1 run , fires this full and outside off stump , Smith tries to squeeze it out , but misses. The keeper fumbles 40.1 Nabi to S Smith , FOUR , full and outside off stump , Smith drives it along the ground to the deep extra-cover boundary. That was a good shot After dismissing Warner , Shapoor and another player congratulated Warner for his brilliant knock . 39.6 Dawlat Zadran to Maxwell , FOUR , in the air , but it 's in the gap. Slower ball outside off stump , Maxwell delays the cut and slices it , the ball splits backward point and short third man to perfection 39.5 Dawlat Zadran to Maxwell , no run , tries the reverse sweep again , but the lack of pace on the ball foxed Maxwell and it goes to the keeper off the pad. The impact was well outside off stump though 39.4 Dawlat Zadran to S Smith , 1 run , widish yorker , Smith toe-ends it to third man 39.3 Dawlat Zadran to Maxwell , 1 run , slower ball wide outside off stump , Maxwell reaches out and bottom-edges the cut to short third man 39.2 Dawlat Zadran to Maxwell , SIX , the Big Show has started ! Full and outside off stump , Maxwell takes his front leg out of the way , in fact he gives himself a lot of room as well and smashes it easily over wide long-off 39.1 Dawlat Zadran to S Smith , 1 run , full and on the off stump , drilled to long-on Dawlat Zadran [ 7.0-1-68-1 ] is back into the attack 38.6 Nabi to S Smith , 1 run , makes room and softly pushes this flatter ball to backward point 38.5 Nabi to Maxwell , 1 run , fast low full toss , driven to long-on 38.4 Nabi to S Smith , byes , 1 run , backs away and looks to cut , but misses. The ball bounces over the stumps and the keeper fumbles to allow a run 38.3 Nabi to Maxwell , 1 run , attempts a slog , but gets an inside edge that rolls to short fine leg 38.2 Nabi to Maxwell , FOUR , Maxi brings out the reverse sweep and he hits it very well. Flighted delivery on the stumps , Maxwell hits it in the air over backward point and it escapes to the boundary 38.1 Nabi to Maxwell , no run , low full toss on the leg stump , flicked to mid-wicket Mohammad Nabi [ 6.0-0-35-0 ] is back into the attack Australia have scored 45/1 in the 5-over batting powerplay . 37.6 Shapoor to S Smith , no run , yorker outside off stump , Smith digs it out towards cover , Maxi wants a run but Smith sends him back 37.5 Shapoor to S Smith , FOUR , clever stuff from Smith. Low full toss outside off stump , Smith opens the face of the bat at the last moment and runs it down to third man 37.4 Shapoor to S Smith , no run , in the airrrr and just short of the man diving forward at mid-wicket. Full and on the off stump , Smith swings hard , the ball catches the inside half of the bat and falls just short Glenn Maxwell , right handed bat , comes to the crease 37.3 Shapoor to Warner , out Caught by Nabi ! ! That is an excellent catch by the Afghanistan skipper. Davey Warner walks off to a standing ovation. He had the opportunity to score a double-hundred today , but he 's missed out. Full and on the off stump , normally Warner would have muscled that over the boundary , this time the bat turns in his hands on impact with the ball and goes straight up in the air , mid-wicket runs to his right and reverse-cups the ball. Warner backed away to go big , but he could n't get the middle of the bat. End of a terrific knock from the left-hander. Warner c Nabi b Shapoor 178 ( 133 ) [ 4s-19 6s-5 ] Shapoor to Warner , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 37.2 Shapoor to S Smith , 1 run , flicked in the air , but it does n't carry to deep mid-wicket. Full and on the off stump , Smith mistimes the flick , the fielders runs forward , but does n't get to the ball 37.1 Shapoor to S Smith , no run , yorker again , kept out by Smith Shapoor Zadran [ 7.0-0-54-0 ] is back into the attack 36.6 Hamid to S Smith , 1 run , another yorker , this time outside off stump , Smith guides it down to third man 36.5 Hamid to S Smith , FOUR , oh that is cruel ! The bowler has bowled a brilliant yorker at 146.1kph , the batsman has only managed to jam it out , but it runs away between backward point and cover-point for four 36.4 Hamid to Warner , 1 run , he 's smashed that , but long-on tidies up. Warner goes leg-side , Hamid follows him and misses the yorker , Warner hits it well but does n't get the placement right 36.3 Hamid to Warner , no run , almost yorker length again , Warner works it to mid-wicket 36.2 Hamid to S Smith , 1 run , these guys are bowling yorkers at will ! Inswinger on middle stump line , Smith digs it out to backward point 36.1 Hamid to S Smith , no run , Hamid misses the yorker and bowls a low full toss , Smith glances it very well but hits it straight to short fine leg Warner changes his bat 35.6 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , no run , great yorker again , Warner jams it out 35.5 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , FOUR , excellent placement Davey Warner. That 's the 250-run stand up as well. Dawlat Zadran looks for a widish yorker outside off stump , Warner squeezes it out nicely and sends it between short third man and backward point Free-hit coming up 35.5 Dawlat Zadran to S Smith , no ball , 1 run , it 's a no ball and he 's overstepped this time. High full toss on the leg stump , Smith glances it to short fine leg 35.4 Dawlat Zadran to S Smith , no run , fullish and outside off stump , driven towards cover 35.3 Dawlat Zadran to S Smith , no run , another good yorker from Dawlat , Smith keeps it out 35.2 Dawlat Zadran to S Smith , SIX , that 's a delightful shot from Smith. Full and in the slot , Smith does n't try to overhit the ball , just lofts it over mid-on and holds a nice pose , the timing was so good and it went all the way 35.1 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , 1 run , fine yorker outside off stump , Warner digs it out to mid-off 35.1 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , no ball , FOUR , oh no ! This high full toss is above the waist. It 's wide outside off stump , Warner cuts it fiercely through point and moves onto 172 Dawlat Zadran [ 6.0-1-50-1 ] is back into the attack Brilliant over from Hamid , just two singles in it with field restrictions in place . 34.6 Hamid to S Smith , no run , fullish and outside off stump , driven towards mid-off 34.5 Hamid to S Smith , no run , slower ball outside off stump , Smith taps it towards point 34.4 Hamid to S Smith , no run , another fantastic yorker from Hamid , Smith was beaten for pace and the late reverse swing back into the right-hander foxed the batsman as well. The ball sneaked under Smith 's bat as he tried to jam it out. In fact , it was bowled at 146kph 34.3 Hamid to Warner , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Warner drives very hard , but straight to long-off 34.2 Hamid to Warner , no run , brilliant yorker from round the wicket , Warner just about manages to dig it out 34.1 Hamid to S Smith , 1 run , slower ball outside off stump , Smith guides it to third man and rightly gives the strike back to Warner Hamid Hassan [ 6.0-0-51-0 ] is back into the attack Great start to the batting powerplay for Australia - 13 runs came off 6 balls 33.6 Shapoor to Warner , no run , ends the over with a very full ball , Warner flicks it to mid-wicket 33.5 Shapoor to Warner , SIX , oh he 's smashed that very hard. This is his highest ODI score now. Full toss again from Shapoor , Warner just made room and took a step forward before smashing it high over backward square leg 33.4 Shapoor to Warner , FOUR , very good ball from Shapoor but it 's run away for four. That is so unlucky for the bowler. Warner goes leg-side , Shapoor follows him with a yorker , actually Warner missed it and it went off the left boot to the fine leg boundary 33.3 Shapoor to S Smith , 1 run , friendly full toss , but Smith so kind to just punch it along the ground to sweeper 33.2 Shapoor to Warner , 1 run , follows Warner as he makes room , the batsman could only drive this fuller length delivery to mid-off 33.1 Shapoor to S Smith , 1 run , Shapoor starts from round the wicket , Smith drives the yorker length ball to sweeper cover Tanmoy adds this from the ground - There 's a real buzz at the WACA now , this is Australia 's only game on this ground. He feels that the kid is due an autograph from Warner after being battered by that ball which hit him on his hand Australia opt for the batting powerplay For Australia , Warner continued to play with a dash of fearlessness and essayed a crunching ton. Once he reached his hundred , he clobbered Dawlat for two sixes and two fours in a single over. He also essayed a volley of thunderous strokes to thrash Shapoor Zadran for a four and a six in the 32nd over of the game. In short , Warner 's bat-speed is phenomenal. On the other hand , after a quiet start , Smith used his supple wrists to good effect to collect runs square of the wicket on either side. Australia look set to amass a monstrous score on the board . In an attempt to slow the run rate down , Mohammad Nabi used the spinners. Nabi and Javed Ahmadi bowled a few tight overs , but Samiullah Shenwari , the leg-spinner , struggled to bowl with control. Unfortunately for Afghanistan , they missed the chance to run out Steven Smith and Afsar Zazai dropped a tough catch off Nabi 's bowling to give Warner a reprieve . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the last 19 overs : After Dawlat Zadran bowled a fine spell with the new ball , Hamid Hassan looked to bang it short and paid the price , as he was thwacked to all corners of the ground , especially by David Warner . Drinks are on the field now 32.6 Nabi to Warner , no run , slower and just outside off , defended towards cover 32.5 Nabi to Warner , FOUR , Warner is running away with the show here , another full-toss from Nabi , he 's pushing it hard and flat , Warner makes use of the pace and punches it back past the bowler , the fielder at long-on gets across , puts in the dive , but the ball beats him to the fence 32.5 Nabi to Warner , wide , Nabi drifts one flatter and well down leg-side , wide called 32.4 Nabi to S Smith , 1 run , flatter and just outside off , nudged square past point for a single 32.3 Nabi to Warner , 1 run , full-toss from Nabi , driven down towards long-off for a single 32.2 Nabi to Warner , no run , tossed up and just outside off , defended towards cover 32.1 Nabi to Warner , FOUR , 150 for Warner , Rohit 's 264 is in serious danger , this was tossed up and just outside off , Warner makes room and slugs it back past the bowler , no need to run for those 31.6 Shapoor to S Smith , no run , Zadran comes from round the wicket and angles one back into Smith , defended with an open face and towards cover 31.5 Shapoor to Warner , leg byes , 1 run , full and on Warner 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , sneaks in a leg-bye as the ball rolls away towards short fine 31.4 Shapoor to Warner , no run , much better from Zadran , gets his yorker right , Warner jams his bat down and digs it out 31.3 Shapoor to Warner , 2 runs , low full-toss and on Warner 's pads , flicked away in the air , the ball drops just in front of the fielder at deep square leg 31.2 Shapoor to Warner , SIX , Warner is upping the ante , and in some style , Zadran drags his length back and goes short and wide outside off , Warner rocks back and pulls it hard and flat , goes sailing into the crowd at wide long-on , hits a young kid on his fingers , he 's not flinched one bit though , looks like a brave boy 31.1 Shapoor to Warner , SIX , massive and that 's well taken by a spectator , Zadran misses his length , offers a half-volley , Warner gets underneath and lofts it clean and over long-on , well caught there by someone in the crowd , he wo n't get any prize though Shapoor Zadran [ 5.0-0-27-0 ] is back into the attack 30.6 Nabi to Warner , 1 run , that 's nicely bowled by Nabi , Warner was shaping up for the switch hit , Nabi goes full and on off , almost hit the yorker length , Warner just about manages to dig it out , gets a thick edge towards short third man 30.5 Nabi to Warner , no run , full toss and on off , drilled away towards mid-wicket 30.4 Nabi to Warner , no run , flatter and on off , Warner makes room and cuts it towards cover , the fielder makes a smart stop 30.3 Nabi to Warner , 2 runs , Nabi drops one short and well outside off , Warner rocks back and pulls it hard and wide of long-on , gets back for the second run 30.2 Nabi to S Smith , 1 run , slower and on the stumps , worked behind square on the on-side for a single 30.1 Nabi to S Smith , no run , flighted and on the stumps , nudged straight to the fielder at mid-wicket 29.6 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , FOUR , lucky and four , this was short and angling away from the left-hander , the slower ball from Zadran , Warner threw his bat at that , gets a thick edge that loops past the fielder at short third man , runs away to the boundary 29.5 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , SIX , this is even better ! This was a low full-toss and on off , Warner gets forward , swings through the line and into the crowd at long-off. Dropped in the stands , he 's on fire here 29.4 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , SIX , that 's massive ! This was full and right in the zone , Warner gets down on one knee and flat bats it hard and over mid-on , sails into the crowd at the long-on fence 29.3 Dawlat Zadran to S Smith , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on Smith 's pads , flicked away towards long leg for a single 29.2 Dawlat Zadran to S Smith , FOUR , lovely shot , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Smith presents the full face of the bat , meets the ball on top of the bounce and drives it back past the non-striker , no need to run for those 29.1 Dawlat Zadran to S Smith , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and on Smith 's pads , worked away behind square on the on-side for a brace Dawlat Zadran [ 5.0-1-27-1 ] is back into the attack 28.6 Nabi to Warner , no run , was that a chance ? This was short and on middle , Warner made room for the cut , might have just grazed the top-edge on the way to the keeper. Zazai ca n't hold on though , the reactions from the bowler and the umpire suggested that there was an edge there. Replays suggest there was a thick edge , hit Zazai on his chest , he grabbed at that and missed , could n't take it on the second attempt either 28.5 Nabi to S Smith , 1 run , slower and on the stumps , worked away behind square on the on-side for a single 28.4 Nabi to Warner , 1 run , pushed through by Nabi , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a single 28.3 Nabi to Warner , no run , tossed up and on the stumps , Warner makes room and pushes it towards cover 28.2 Nabi to S Smith , 1 run , slower and just outside off , driven down towards long-on for a single 28.1 Nabi to S Smith , FOUR , fifty for Smith , his first in WCs , poor ball from Nabi , he dragged it short and well outside off , cracked away square past cover-point and into the fence Mohammad Nabi [ 3.0-0-13-0 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Hamid to S Smith , 1 run , back of a length and angling onto Smith 's pads , flicked away behind square on the on-side , just a single 27.5 Hamid to Warner , 1 run , on a good length and outside off , driven towards sweeper cover for a single 27.4 Hamid to S Smith , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Smith presents the full face of the bat , drives it towards mid-off and calls for a single. There 's a direct hit at the bowler 's end , but Smith was well home by then 27.3 Hamid to Warner , 1 run , full and just outside off , driven down towards long-off for a single 27.2 Hamid to S Smith , 1 run , Hamid keeps it full and well outside off , driven through cover for a single 27.1 Hamid to Warner , 1 run , Hamid comes from round the wicket and floats one full and well outside off , driven down towards long-off for a single 26.6 Shenwari to Warner , 1 run , flighted and on the leg-stump line , Warner makes room and drives it to the right of mid-off for a single 26.5 Shenwari to S Smith , 1 run , this one is given more air , driven down towards long-off for a single 26.4 Shenwari to S Smith , no run , Shenwari tosses one well outside off , Smith prods forward and gets an inside edge 26.3 Shenwari to S Smith , no run , this one is drifted wider outside off , Smith reaches out and slices it towards short third man 26.2 Shenwari to S Smith , no run , tossed up and just outside off , Smith lunges forward and blocks 26.1 Shenwari to S Smith , FOUR , easy pickings for Smith , another full toss , this time by Shenwari , Smith comes down the track and whips it past mid-wicket , there 's no one in the deep , brings up the 150-run stand 25.6 Hamid to Warner , FOUR , this one 's not going to be stopped , short and well outside off , Warner swivels across , rolls his wrists and pulls it past mid-wicket , no need to run for those 25.5 Hamid to Warner , no run , low full-toss from Hamid , Warner drives it to the right of mid-on , the fielder makes a diving stop 25.4 Hamid to S Smith , 1 run , too straight from Hamid , worked away behind square on the on-side for a single 25.3 Hamid to S Smith , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Smith plays with an open face and guides it towards backward point , the fielder dives and saves a run 25.2 Hamid to Warner , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , driven past the diving cover fielder , just a single to long-off 25.1 Hamid to Warner , FOUR , Warner is in overdrive mode now , this was short and wide from Hamid , the slower leg-cutter , Warner seizes on that and swats it over mid-on for a boundary Hamid Hassan [ 4.0-0-35-0 ] is back into the attack 24.6 Shenwari to S Smith , FOUR , nicely done by Smith , fraction short and wide outside off , Smith waits on it , uses the pace on the ball and cuts it square behind point , gets his second boundary 24.5 Shenwari to Warner , 1 run , 4th ODI hundred for Warner , his first in WCs , lifts his helmet and soaks in the applause from this WACA crowd , this was tossed up and on the stumps , he was looking to drive and gets an inside edge past mid-wicket , just a single 24.4 Shenwari to Warner , no run , flighted delivery and well outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover 24.3 Shenwari to Warner , 2 runs , Warner moves onto 99 , this was flighted and on his pads , worked in front of mid-wicket , stumbles while turning back for the second run , but gets home with ease 24.2 Shenwari to Warner , no run , slower and on the stumps , Warner shuffles across and nudges it towards mid-wicket 24.1 Shenwari to S Smith , 1 run , tossed up and on off , driven down towards long-off for a single Samiullah Shenwari [ 3.0-0-20-0 ] is back into the attack Our man , Tanmoy Mookherjee , who 's at the ground has this to say : " Left-arm Zadran is less wild than his hair in his second spell. " 23.6 Ahmadi to Warner , no run , pushed through flatter and on the stumps , Warner makes room and cuts it straight to the fielder at cover 23.5 Ahmadi to S Smith , 1 run , flighted and on the stumps , punched down towards long-on for a single 23.4 Ahmadi to Warner , 1 run , tossed up and well outside off , driven down towards long-off for a single 23.3 Ahmadi to Warner , 2 runs , Ahmadi drops this one way too short and well outside off , Warner backs away and cracks it past cover , the fielder in the deep gets across and keeps them down to a brace 23.2 Ahmadi to S Smith , 1 run , flatter and on off , punched down towards long-on for a single 23.1 Ahmadi to Warner , 1 run , tossed up and just outside off , Warner makes room and drives it down towards long-off for a single 22.6 Shapoor to S Smith , FOUR , too straight from Zadran , ends up drifting onto Smith 's pads , he shuffles across a long way and flicks it past short fine , no need to run for those , the ball races away to the fence 22.5 Shapoor to Warner , 1 run , full and on the stumps , flicked away past square leg for a single 22.4 Shapoor to S Smith , 1 run , tad fuller and well outside off , Smith steers it away towards third man for a single 22.3 Shapoor to Warner , 1 run , on a good length and on the stumps , turned in front of mid-wicket for a single 22.2 Shapoor to Warner , no run , short of a length and just outside off , no room for Warner to free himself as he went for the pull , gets a bottom edge and the ball rolls away towards mid-on 22.1 Shapoor to S Smith , 1 run , full and wide from Zadran , Smith leans into the drive and gets a single to deep cover 21.6 Ahmadi to S Smith , 1 run , tossed up and on off , Smith gets well forward and drives it towards long-on for a single 21.5 Ahmadi to S Smith , no run , tossed up and well outside off , Smith gets well forward as he pushes forward defensively 21.4 Ahmadi to S Smith , no run , Smith comes down the track , takes the ball on the full and drives it back at the bowler 21.3 Ahmadi to Warner , leg byes , 1 run , full and on Warner 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , sneaks in a leg-bye as the ball rolls towards short fine 21.2 Ahmadi to Warner , 2 runs , pushed through and on Warner 's pads , worked in front of square on the on-side for a brace 21.1 Ahmadi to Warner , no run , flatter and on off , Warner comes down the track and blocks 20.6 Shapoor to S Smith , no run , low full toss from Zadran , Smith looks to drive and gets a toe-edge towards cover-point 20.5 Shapoor to Warner , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Warner gets a good stride forward and drives it towards long-off 20.4 Shapoor to Warner , no run , tad fuller and on the stumps , Warner gets behind the line and punches it towards mid-on 20.3 Shapoor to S Smith , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven towards deep cover for a single 20.2 Shapoor to Warner , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , punched down towards long-on for a single Back to over the wicket for Warner 20.1 Shapoor to S Smith , 1 run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , blocked past cover for a single Shapoor is back and he 's coming from round the wicket Shapoor Zadran [ 3.0-0-15-0 ] is back into the attack 19.6 Ahmadi to S Smith , 1 run , this one is given more air , eased down towards long-on for a single 19.5 Ahmadi to S Smith , no run , pushed through by Ahmadi , flicked straight to the fielder at mid-wicket 19.4 Ahmadi to Warner , 1 run , full and on the stumps , driven past the diving fielder at mid-on , there 's a man backing up at long-on , just a single 19.3 Ahmadi to S Smith , 1 run , this one is given more air , driven down towards long-on for a single 19.2 Ahmadi to Warner , 1 run , Warner comes down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and eases it down towards long-on for a single 19.1 Ahmadi to Warner , no run , tossed up and well outside off , Warner lunges forward and blocks 18.6 Shenwari to Warner , 1 run , slower and just outside off , chopped away square on the off-side for a single 18.5 Shenwari to Warner , FOUR , Warner is looking in excellent touch , a little shimmy down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball , gave himself some room and drives it to the left of extra cover for a boundary 18.4 Shenwari to S Smith , 1 run , tossed up and on the stumps , driven down towards long-on for a single 18.3 Shenwari to Warner , 1 run , Shenwari shortens his length as Warner came down the track , eased down towards long-on for a single 18.2 Shenwari to Warner , no run , tossed up and on the stumps , Warner pushes it towards cover-point 18.1 Shenwari to S Smith , 1 run , full toss from Shenwari , driven towards long-off for a single 17.6 Ahmadi to Warner , no run , pushed through by Ahmadi , ends up drifting onto Warner 's pads , flicked straight to the fielder at mid-wicket 17.5 Ahmadi to S Smith , 1 run , tossed up and on the stumps , eased down towards long-on for a single 17.4 Ahmadi to Warner , 1 run , fraction shorter and well outside off , punched down towards long-off for a single 17.3 Ahmadi to S Smith , 1 run , Ahmadi drifts one on Smith 's pads , flicked away towards long-on for a single 17.2 Ahmadi to Warner , 1 run , tossed up and on off , driven down towards long-on for a single 17.1 Ahmadi to S Smith , 1 run , a direct hit might have had Smith well short , he was on the back foot as he flicked one straight to backward square leg , Warner called for a quick single , Smith was late to set-off , a better throw from the fielder and that would have been the end of Smith 's stay Javed Ahmadi , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 16.6 Shenwari to Warner , no run , this one is tossed up and well outside off , drilled straight to the fielder at mid-off 16.5 Shenwari to Warner , FOUR , too short from Shenwari , Warner makes room outside leg and cuts it square past point , no one 's in the deep , another boundary for Warner 16.4 Shenwari to Warner , no run , Shenwari tosses one on middle , Warner comes down the track and drives it to the left of extra cover , the fielder tumbles and saves some runs 16.3 Shenwari to Warner , 2 runs , this one is tossed up and wider outside off , driven to the right of long-off for a couple of runs 16.2 Shenwari to Warner , FOUR , Shenwari drops this one way too short and wide outside off , Warner backs away , makes room and cuts it square on the off-side for a boundary 16.1 Shenwari to Warner , no run , full and on Warner 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away towards the on-side 15.6 Nabi to Warner , 1 run , slower and just outside off , eased down towards long-on for a single 15.5 Nabi to Warner , no run , very full and on off , driven back towards the bowler 15.4 Nabi to Warner , 2 runs , Nabi drops one short and wide outside off , Warner makes room and cracks it square on the off-side for a brace 15.3 Nabi to S Smith , 1 run , Nabi tosses one on Smith 's pads , worked to the right of mid-wicket for a single 15.2 Nabi to S Smith , no run , Smith comes down the track to a well flighted delivery and drives it back at the bowler 15.1 Nabi to S Smith , no run , slower and just outside off , Smith prods across and defends it back towards the bowler Mohammad Nabi [ 2.0-0-9-0 ] is back into the attack 14.6 Shenwari to S Smith , 1 run , this one is flighted on the off-stump line , eased down towards long-on for a single 14.5 Shenwari to S Smith , no run , tossed up and on off , Smith pushes it towards mid-on , the fielder at mid-wicket gets across and stops the single 14.4 Shenwari to Warner , 1 run , this one is given more air , driven down towards long-on for a single 14.3 Shenwari to Warner , no run , Shenwari drags this one way too short , pulled straight to the fielder at mid-wicket 14.2 Shenwari to Warner , no run , flighted and on off , defended back towards the bowler 14.1 Shenwari to Warner , no run , Shenwari starts with a full toss , punched back towards the bowler Samiullah Shenwari , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack It would be interesting to see how the pacers playing in this game adjust to the 'Fremantle Doctor'. It is an afternoon cooling sea breeze that regularly passes through the ground and assists the swing bowlers with their outswinger. However , pacers who are n't used to bowling into the wind tend to struggle while bowling from the Prindiville Stand end. Historically though , the likes of Ray Strauss and Terry Alderman have used it to great effect while playing for Western Australia. Interestingly , Ian Brayshaw used the easterly wind to take a 10-wicket haul for Western Australia against Victoria in 1967-68 . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the first 14 overs : Shapoor Zadran and in particular , Dawlat Zadran , bowled a fuller length , and Dawlat was rewarded for his fine effort with the wicket of opener , Aaron Finch. Most of the bowlers tend to get carried away with the pace and bounce on offer at the WACA , but Dawlat and Shapoor looked to bring the batsmen forward. In fact , they just bowled one short delivery in the first nine overs of the innings. It was David Warner , who after a few nervous moments against the new ball decided to go after Afghanistan 's seamers and succeeded by smashing a flurry of boundaries. He then , composed a sparkling fifty in just 40 deliveries and after a fine start , Afghanistan 's pacers lost the plot . Drinks are on the field now. The break has been taken 3 minutes earlier than normal . 13.6 Hamid to S Smith , no run , defended towards cover 13.5 Hamid to S Smith , no run , covers the off stump , gets right behind the line and offers a compact defence 13.4 Hamid to S Smith , no run , Smith tries to work this short of length delivery into the on-side , but gets hit on the thigh pad 13.3 Hamid to Warner , 1 run , slower ball from round the wicket , Warner punches past the diving fielder at cover 13.2 Hamid to S Smith , 1 run , back of a length around the off stump , Smith turns it to backward square leg 13.1 Hamid to S Smith , no run , fullish and outside off stump , Smith defends and gets a thickish edge , the fielder at backward point dives to his left and makes a good save 12.6 Nabi to Warner , 2 runs , spinning away outside off stump , driven along the ground through cover 12.5 Nabi to S Smith , 1 run , easily worked away to deep square leg 12.4 Nabi to Warner , 1 run , steps out and works the flighted delivery to long-on 12.3 Nabi to Warner , no run , flatter ball , defended off the back foot 12.2 Nabi to Warner , 2 runs , flighted delivery outside off stump , Warner advances and lofts inside-out over extra-cover , Dawlat dives to his right and saves two in the deep 12.1 Nabi to S Smith , 1 run , advances and drives the flighted delivery along the ground to long-on Our man , Tanmoy Mookherjee , who 's at the ground has this tit-bit : The only way Afghanistan can halt Warner is to slow down the pace of the game. At the moment though , they are more engrossed in testing the famed bounce of the WACA deck . 11.6 Hamid to S Smith , 1 run , as always , Warner walks across and tucks the short of length delivery towards square leg 11.5 Hamid to Warner , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Warner punches it square of the wicket on the off-side 11.4 Hamid to S Smith , leg byes , 1 run , short of length delivery , Smith misses the flick , the ball hits him high on the thigh pad 11.3 Hamid to Warner , 1 run , gets across the stumps and helps this short of length delivery through deep square leg 11.2 Hamid to Warner , FOUR , goes for the pull , does n't get it from the middle of the bat , in fact , the short of length delivery hurried onto him and hit him high on the bat , but enough to beat Stanikzai , who was running to his right from deep square leg 11.1 Hamid to S Smith , 1 run , moves across , covers the inswing on this length ball and flicks it to the right of mid-wicket , the fielder makes a diving save to his right and fires a direct-hit but Warner was well in 10.6 Nabi to Warner , no run , tossed up outside off stump , Warner drives it to the right of the bowler 10.5 Nabi to Warner , no run , on the off stump , blocked 10.4 Nabi to Warner , no run , flatter ball on the leg stump , Warner pushes it to the left of the bowler , who makes a diving save 10.3 Nabi to S Smith , 1 run , too straight , flicked away to deep square leg 10.2 Nabi to S Smith , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Smith defends it to point 10.1 Nabi to Warner , 1 run , flatter from round the wicket , Warner turns it to square leg Mohammad Nabi , right-arm off break , comes into the attack So Australia have scored 38 runs off the last 3 overs . 9.6 Hamid to Warner , 1 run , 11th ODI fifty for Warner and the crowd love it. He raises his bat to acknowledge the applause. Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Warner softly taps it to mid-off and gets to the milestone 9.5 Hamid to Warner , FOUR , this is not a great spell from Hamid. Slower ball goes full in the slot , Warner just delays his loft a bit and sends it back over mid-off. He 's looking very dangerous out there , Davey Warner 9.4 Hamid to Warner , no run , fullish and just outside off stump , punched off the front foot to mid-off 9.3 Hamid to Warner , FOUR , Hamid overcompensates his length and bowls a juicy full ball , Warner waits for the ball to come and lofts it handsomely over mid-off. He moves onto 45 off just 37 balls 9.2 Hamid to Warner , FOUR , he 's looking great , do n't bowl gentle short stuff to him. If you are trying the bouncer , get it up around his head height. Nothing ball , Warner rocks back and pulls over mid-wicket 9.1 Hamid to S Smith , 1 run , full and down the leg-side , Smith mistimes the flick to long leg Interestingly , the bowlers are not getting the same amount of carry as the India-UAE game a few days ago . 8.6 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , FOUR , short ball , sits up nicely , Warner hangs back and pulls powerfully over mid-wicket to end the over on a high. Australia have scored 24 runs off the last 2 overs 8.5 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , punched very hard , but straight to cover-point 8.4 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , 2 runs , short ball from Zadran , Warner toe-ends the pull to deep mid-wicket. 50 up for Australia 8.3 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , 2 runs , in the air , he 's not timed that , but it clears mid-on. Good length delivery outside off stump , Warner flat-bats it over the bowler 's head for a couple 8.2 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , no run , Zadran is giving too much width for Warner , he needs to be a bit careful , Warner cracks the cut shot from the middle of the bat but hits it straight to cover 8.2 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , wide , that 's a harsh call from the umpire. It was well inside the line. Full and angling away from the left-hander , Warner throws his bat at it and gets beaten 8.1 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , FOUR , cracking shot ! Too full from Zadran , enough width on offer for Warner to free his arms , he waits for the ball to come and drives very hard through extra-cover 7.6 Hamid to Warner , 3 runs , fullish and around the off stump , Warner punches this nicely off the front foot and to the left of cover. These two have run four 3s in the last 10 balls. This is fine batting from Australia. Hardly any risk taken and they got 11 off that over 7.5 Hamid to S Smith , 1 run , full and just swinging back in , Smith works it to mid-on 7.4 Hamid to Warner , 3 runs , very full and outside off stump , Warner square-drives it past the diving fielder at cover-point 7.3 Hamid to S Smith , 1 run , gets his front foot nicely forward and defends this length ball wide of mid-off 7.2 Hamid to S Smith , no run , beaten ! A confident shout from the bowler , but the keeper was late to join the appeal , the umpire shakes his head. Short of a length delivery just outside off stump , Smith goes across and tries to defend , but the ball beats the inside edge and brushes the thigh pad en route to the keeper 7.1 Hamid to S Smith , 2 runs , poor ball ! Easily pickings for Smith , who goes across the stumps and flicks the short of length delivery through backward square leg 7.1 Hamid to S Smith , wide , full and way outside off stump , left alone Hamid Hassan , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 6.6 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Warner defends off the back foot 6.5 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , no run , full and outside off stump , Warner drives it to cover Now there is a man at short cover . 6.4 Dawlat Zadran to S Smith , 3 runs , too straight from Dawlat Zadran , Smith easily flicks it through square leg and it 's three more. Good effort from the fielder there as he saved one run with a slide 6.3 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , 3 runs , short of length delivery outside off stump , Warner punches it through cover-point , good running between the wickets gives Australia three 6.2 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , no run , another leading edge that rolls towards cover-point. This length ball started to shape back in just a bit , but it held its line after pitching , the movement opened up Warner and luckily for him , the edge did n't go to hand 6.1 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , no run , oh no ! Another bad shot , way outside off stump as he goes chasing after it. That was so close to being called a wide 5.6 Shapoor to S Smith , no run , that was a bad leave from Smith. He went across the stumps , Shapoor dragged his length back , Smith let it go and the ball bounced just over the leg stump 5.5 Shapoor to S Smith , no run , a leading edge ! Full and just outside off stump , Smith walks across the stumps and tries to play on the on-side , gets a soft edge that rolls to cover-point 5.4 Shapoor to Warner , 1 run , on the pads , worked away wide of mid-on for a run 5.3 Shapoor to Warner , no run , back of a length outside off stump , punched to cover-point 5.2 Shapoor to Warner , no run , full and on the off stump , Warner defends it to mid-on 5.1 Shapoor to Warner , no run , good length delivery on the stumps , bit of extra bounce and it beats Warner 's bat before hitting him high on the pad 4.6 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , 3 runs , gets this inswinger wrong , full and down the leg-side , Warner flicks it along the ground to deep square leg 4.5 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , no run , that 's a loose shot from Warner. Scrambled seam full ball wide outside off stump , Warner throws his bat at it in an attempt to drive and gets beaten. " He does n't look focussed to me at the moment , " says Mark Taylor on air 4.4 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , no run , good length delivery angling away from the left-hander , Warner looks to slash hard but gets beaten 4.3 Dawlat Zadran to S Smith , 1 run , outswinger on a fuller length , Smith leans forward and defends it towards mid-off for a sharp run. He 's opened his account 4.2 Dawlat Zadran to S Smith , no run , again Smith hops right across the stumps and allows the length ball to go through 4.1 Dawlat Zadran to S Smith , no run , walks right across the stumps and lets the short of length delivery go through to the keeper 3.6 Shapoor to Warner , no run , on a length and close to the off stump , Warner mistimes the back foot punch wide of mid-off 3.5 Shapoor to Warner , no run , full and just outside off stump , Warner drives it to mid-off 3.4 Shapoor to Warner , no run , good length delivery on the stumps , defended 3.3 Shapoor to Warner , FOUR , top shot from Warner after exchaning a few words with the bowler. An authoritative shot indeed. Short of a length delivery on the off stump , Warner rocks back and pulls in the front of square over mid-wicket and it races away 3.2 Shapoor to Warner , no run , there was a sound as the ball passed the bat. The appeal is quite confident but Afghanistan do n't review. Good call from the ump , it just brushed the pad. Another ball down the leg-side , Warner misses the glance 3.1 Shapoor to Warner , no run , 'no ' says Warner after defending this short of length delivery back to the bowler 3.1 Shapoor to Warner , wide , sprays this down the leg-side , easy call for the umpire Steven Smith , right handed bat , comes to the crease 2.6 Dawlat Zadran to Finch , out Caught by Nawroz ! ! There you go ! This was coming. He plays with acres of space between bat and pad and perishes. Brilliant over from Dawlat Zadran. He offered no width to the batsman and forced Finch to play a false stroke. Full and just swinging away outside off stump , Finch looks to drive off the front foot , but the big bat-pad gap meant he was not in a good position. The ball takes a healthy outside edge and flies to first slip , who dives low to his left and takes a good catch. Dawlat is charged and pumps his fist on his chest. It 's a wicket-maiden as well. Finch c Nawroz b Dawlat Zadran 4 ( 9 ) Dawlat Zadran to Finch , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 2.5 Dawlat Zadran to Finch , no run , no room whatsoever on this good length delivery from Zadran , Finch defends it back towards the bowler 2.4 Dawlat Zadran to Finch , no run , nice and full from Zadran , just a hint of outswing as well , Finch covers the off stump and defends well towards mid-on , the bowlers dives to his right and takes some pace off the ball 2.3 Dawlat Zadran to Finch , no run , Zadran drags his length back a touch , hence Finch waits for the ball to come and defends off the back foot 2.2 Dawlat Zadran to Finch , no run , Finch dangerously lunges forward and defends this full ball away from the body , the outswinging ball could have easily taken the edge. The ball rolls to point though 2.1 Dawlat Zadran to Finch , no run , nice outswing on this fullish ball , watchfully defended off the front foot 1.6 Shapoor to Finch , 1 run , outside edge , but it goes well wide of backward point. Full and outside off stump , Finch looks for the front foot drive , goes hard at it and gets a thickish edge that goes to third man 1.5 Shapoor to Warner , leg byes , 1 run , down the leg-side , Warner misses the glance , the ball brushes the thigh pad , the keeper dives to his right and half-stops the ball 1.4 Shapoor to Warner , 2 runs , inside edge and almost dragged-on. Hardly any feet movement from Warner as he tries to slash that through cover-point , the short of length delivery was a little too close to employ that shot and luckily for him it misses the stumps. The fielder at fine leg runs to his left and stops the ball with his boot Shapoor slows down as he approaches the bowling crease. Maybe he lost his run-up . 1.3 Shapoor to Finch , 1 run , short of length delivery , Finch pushes it to mid-on 1.2 Shapoor to Warner , 1 run , hurries Warner with a length ball , bit of extra bounce and Warner misses the flick , the ball rolls off the pad to fine leg 1.1 Shapoor to Warner , FOUR , uppish but safe ! Short of a length on the off stump , Warner rocks back and pulls in the air , sends it to the left of the square leg umpire and it races away to the boundary. Not the ideal start for Shapoor , who is expected to do well on this surface Shapoor Zadran , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Dawlat Zadran to Finch , 2 runs , full and allowing the ball to swing away , Finch drives off the front foot , Hamid Hassan dives to his left at mid-off and makes a half-stop. Finch gets off the mark with a couple 0.6 Dawlat Zadran to Finch , wide , that would have a fine ball to the left-hander , but it is Finch , who is on strike and it 's a wide down the leg-side 0.5 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , 1 run , 'catch it ' is the cry as Warner gets a bit of a top edge , but it does n't carry to fine leg. Short and on the leg stump , Warner lines up for the pull , maybe the ball stopped on him a bit as he went early into the shot , luckily for him , he did n't hit it well enough as the fielder at long leg could n't get there despite running to his right 0.4 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , no run , nice inswinger just outside off stump , Warner covers the stumps and drives it watchfully off the front foot to mid-off 0.3 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , no run , Warner was almost foxed on the pull shot. The length was short enough for Warner to rock back and try the shot , but it did n't bounce much , kept a bit low and took the inside half of the bat before rolling towards mid-on 0.2 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , no run , harmless good length delivery wide outside off stump , Warner reaches out and punches it towards cover 0.1 Dawlat Zadran to Warner , no run , oh ! Straightaway , Warner is going after the ball. Widish inswinger on a length , Warner flashes hard but gets beaten Warner and Finch are at the crease. Warner is on strike. Dawlat Zadran will open the attack Two slips in place. Dharmasena says 'let 's play ' and here we go.. . The anthems are over and Afghanistan form a huddle. Australian openers Warner and Finch stride out. Warner marks his guard. Dawlat has the new ball in his hands . The teams are walking out for the national anthems. Afghanistan 's anthem will be followed by Australia 's " Advance Australia Fair. " Pitch Report : " Beautiful blue sky , it will only get warmer. It 's an absolute road , a beautiful batting surface , the ball will fly from the surface. Australia would love to bat first , the best chance for Afghanistan , with their pacers , is to bowl first and make the most of any early assistance from the pitch , " reckons Shane Warne Teams : Australia ( Playing XI ) : Aaron Finch , David Warner , Michael Clarke ( c ) , Steven Smith , Glenn Maxwell , Mitchell Marsh , Brad Haddin ( w ) , James Faulkner , Mitchell Johnson , Mitchell Starc , Josh Hazlewood Afghanistan ( Playing XI ) : Javed Ahmadi , Usman Ghani , Nawroz Mangal , Asghar Stanikzai , Samiullah Shenwari , Mohammad Nabi ( c ) , Najibullah Zadran , Afsar Zazai ( w ) , Dawlat Zadran , Hamid Hassan , Shapoor Zadran Afghanistan have won the toss and have opted to field Nabi : " There is a little bit of moisture in the pitch. We want to use the conditions here and take early wickets and put them under pressure. We have one change , Usman Ghani is playing and Gulbadin Naib is not playing. " Clarke : " I pulled up really well , obviously it 's always great to be playing for Australia , so it 's nice to be back out in the middle. We would have liked the win ( against New Zealand ) , did n't go that way. We 've got a big game today. The finisher ( Faulkner ) is back , the whole of Australia should be excited , we certainly are as a team. He 's been a wonderful performer for a long period of time for us and he 's an important part of this World Cup team , that 's for sure. I think the wicket looks fantastic , the ground is in great nick. So had I won the toss , I would have batted. Hazlewood is back in for Cummins with his injury and Faulkner in for Watson. Big game for us we need to bounce back after the loss against New Zealand. " The toss is not too far away. We saw a few days ago in the India-UAE game that the fast bowlers got enough purchase from the pitch as it offered a lot of pace and bounce ; the spinners got a bit of drift as well. There is no doubt that Australia have the pace battery to do well if they opt to bowl , but with not much of batting so far in the tournament , they would want to bat first and get some runs under the belt before playing the big games. So it is going to be very interesting to see what the captains will do at the toss . Speaking ahead of the match , this is what captain Mohammad Nabi had to say. " We are not scared of them , but we respect them because they have good attacking bowlers and good quality batsmen and fielders as well. " Meanwhile , assistant coach Peter Anderson said that the win against Scotland has given the team a lot of confidence. " We 've come off a win against Scotland , so that 's given the boys a lot of confidence. We know we 're up against one of the best teams in the world and certainly arguably the best pace attack. " Then came the game against Scotland. Having opted to field first , Afghanistan bowled well and restricted scotland to 210 in their 50 overs. In reply , despite getting off to a good start , Afghanistan lost 6 wickets for 47 runs and lost their way. However , a determined knock from Samiullah Shenwari ( 96 ) took them closer but Shenwari was dismissed with 19 runs required. With one wicket in hand , the last wicket pair of Hamid Hassan and Shapoor Zadran gave them a dramatic come-from-behind victory with 3 balls to spare . Moving focus to the other team , Afghanistan , who were pretty confident going into the their World Cup debut game against Bangladesh , lost the match by a big margin , despite bowling well for 30 odd overs. Even against Sri Lanka , Mohammad Nabi & Co. put on a spirited show and ran Sri Lanka very close , only to be denied a victory by a Mahela Jayawardene masterclass . Meanwhile , Australia have a few injury concerns ahead of this match. Pat Cummins was ruled out of this contest due to a minor side strain , while Steve Smith has been declared fit , despite taking a blow on his left hand while batting in the nets at the WACA. The good news though is that allrounder James Faulkner is back after recovering from a side strain which he sustained in the tri-series final against England on February 1 . Speaking to a renowned Australian radio station after the match , Mitchell Johnson , who was thrashed by McCullum had this to say. " He 's a great player. He took me apart , I have n't been belted like that for a long while. I just think we were probably a little bit nervous through that middle period. We trained and we knew what to expect. We knew the ball was going to swing there. We knew what to expect we just did n't play our game when we got out there in the middle. I think the moment probably got a bit big for us. " Opting to bat first , Australia got off to a good start , but Trent Boult 's five-wicket haul completely blew them away as they lost 8 wickets in a space of 26 runs at one stage , before being bowled out for 151. In reply , Brendon McCullum went bang , bang , bang up the order and registered a breezy fifty , but once he was dismissed , Mitchell Starc rocked the middle and lower middle order with a 6-fer and reduced them to 146/9. With 6 runs needed , Kane Williamson , who came in at No. 3 , held his nerve and hit a marvellous six to deny Australia a thrilling victory . Australia began the tournament with a bang registering a thumping win over England , but the rained-out match against Bangladesh has cost them a point when they were expected to win that contest in Brisbane. Although it is highly unlikely that one point will deny them a place in the quarterfinals , it has put them in a slightly tricky situation. Their next game against New Zealand was a cracker . We are back to 'The Furnace ' for this Pool A encounter between World Cup co-hosts Australia and Afghanistan. Michael Clarke & Co. will be keen to register a big win today and better their net run rate as it could prove crucial later in the tournament. On the other hand , Afghanistan will be upbeat going into the contest , having registered their first ever World Cup win over Scotland. Although Australia are clear favourites to win this game , it will be very interesting to see Afghanistan 's approach as they have the bowling to exploit the pace and bounce on offer at the WACA. Before we go any further , let 's take a close look at the teams . Teams : Afghanistan ( From ) : Javed Ahmadi , Nawroz Mangal , Asghar Stanikzai , Samiullah Shenwari , Mohammad Nabi ( c ) , Najibullah Zadran , Afsar Zazai ( k ) , Gulbadin Naib , Dawlat Zadran , Hamid Hassan , Shapoor Zadran , Usman Ghani , Shafiqullah Shafiq , Aftab Alam , Nasir Jamal Australia ( From ) : Aaron Finch , David Warner , Shane Watson , Michael Clarke ( c ) , Steven Smith , Glenn Maxwell , Mitchell Marsh , Brad Haddin ( k ) , Mitchell Johnson , Mitchell Starc , Josh Hazlewood , James Faulkner , George Bailey , Xavier Doherty Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
