Banned Mohammad Amir Set for First-Class Return Banned Mohammad Amir Set for First-Class Return Mohammad Amir , 22 , was banned for five years along with Salman Butt and Mohammad Asif in a spot fixing case in England in 2010 , and the trio were jailed by a UK court in 2011 . Last updated on Saturday , 24 January , 2015 14 : 37 IST Total Shares File photo : Mohammad Amir outside a London court in 2010 . Karachi : Disgraced Pakistan paceman Mohammad Amir could return to first-class cricket as early as next month after a relaxation of the conditions of his ban for spot-fixing , an official said on Friday ( Jan 23 ) . Amir , 22 , was banned for five years along with Salman Butt and Mohammad Asif in a spot fixing case in England in 2010 , and the trio were jailed by a UK court in 2011 . The paceman was interviewed in Lahore Friday by the International Cricket Council ( ICC ) after the governing body revised the players ' code of conduct in November last year , adding a provision that allows a banned player to play in domestic games a certain period prior to the end of the ban . The change of rules prompted the Pakistan Cricket Board ( PCB ) to file an appeal with the ICC to relax certain conditions of Amir 's ban last year. A final decision on Amir 's appeal will be taken in ICC Board meeting in Dubai next week . A PCB spokesman confirmed Amir 's potential return. " It is most likely that Aamer will get reprieve to play domestic cricket , " said the spokesman Agha Akber . PCB chairman Shaharyar Khan last week said Amir will be monitored in first-class cricket before returning to international cricket . His five year ban expires in August this year . PCB has said that since the other two banned players - Butt and Asif - took time to plead guilty and have not completed a mandatory rehabilitation , their cases will not be taken up with the ICC . Before the ban Amir was described as cricket 's " hottest property " by legendary Pakistan pace-man Imran Khan . Story first published on : Saturday , 24 January 2015 13 : 31 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
