Graphs That 's it from us. Ireland are looking set to register a win against Zimbabwe in Hobart. Hop tabs to catch the action. Also , join us back tomorrow for another double-header. First , New Zealand take on Afghanistan in Napier and then the big match between Australia and Sri Lanka at the SCG. Take care ! Goodbye ! Pat Symcox : Great effort from @ ABdeVilliers17 but you got ta hand all the accolades to Pakistan today.They have been magnificent . Mohandas Menon : Pakistan last played SA in a WC on a Saturday 5/6/1999. Met after 15y-9m-2d to post their 1st win vs the Proteas in 4 games . Michael Wagener : I 'm about 2km from the stadium and I can still hear that group of Pakistan fans . Peter Della Penna : Watch out UAE. South Africa will bounce back in anger. Could see 500 if they bat first . Harsha Bhogle : Now , for an investigation into where Pakistan had hidden Sarfaraz Ahmed. He is some player , extraordinary not to have picked him so far . Let 's have a look at a few tweets now . Misbah : " It 's a big win , much needed win for us. We were in a situation where we have to win both games. So I think wonderful performance by everybody. We just had got a good start , Sarfraz really played well , Ahmed Shehzad gave a good start and Younis Khan played really well today. We were I think 30-40 runs short at the end but the bowlers , the way they just did the job was wonderful. The plan was simple. When you are going with 4 strike bowlers , the plan is very simple and the opposition also knows that we are going for wickets and we are going for the kill. That 's what the bowlers did. We do n't have any chance when you are defending 230 or 222. Only chance is get wickets and get the opposition all-out. We are really doing very well. Of course , beating South Africa , who are really playing good cricket , everybody knows that they are a wonderful side so after that everybody believes that , all the players and team , they are confident. I think next game is going to be really important for us. We can take a lot of confidence from that , but we need to be focussed because that 's a must-win game for us and I think momentum goes with that in the knockout stage. So anything could happen. When runs are on the board , there is always pressure on the opposition. Once they are under pressure it 's really difficult. As cricketers , we know how difficult a chase could be and when your bowling is so strong , all the four seamers are bowling really well. That was the plan , keep trying to take wickets. I think they wonderfully responded. " de Villiers : " We still are in a decent position in the group , but I never enjoy losing , it 's really painful. We just did n't play really good cricket today. I thought we were right with the ball in hand and shocking with the bat. I expect us to get more partnerships going for the top seven batters. It 's never nice to lose games of cricket , I am not going to be happy with that. I wo n't say we felt uneasy. I wo n't say once again because we 've been under pressure in many situations in the last few years where we 've come out on top. So it 's not all lost , but we have to look at losses like that. It 's just not good enough. We 've got a chance in Wellington against UAE to recover nicely and together as a group again. I still believe that we 've got the right group here to lift that trophy up. So just a matter of keeping the feet on the ground and working out. It was n't easy ( under lights ) . I batted out there for a bit of time. I got in , I never felt at ease. I felt the ball could pass my bat at any time. There was just a little bit of movement around. Just spoke to Misbah about that. As soon as there was a bit of a drizzle , the juice came back into the wicket , but still a good enough wicket for us to chase that down. But there 's no reason why we should n't be chasing down those kind of totals. " Sarfraz ( speaking in Urdu ) : " I want to thank my parents , family members and also to everyone who were praying for me to do well. There was a lot of pressure. I felt like today was my debut match. There was a lot of tension but I spoke to Mushy bhai ( Mushtaq Ahmed ) . He gave me a lot of confidence. There was a lot of pressure playing against a top bowling attack , but by the grace of god I did well and the performance is there for all to see. " Sarfraz Ahmed is the Man of the Match With this stunning win , Pakistan have made a great comeback. In fact , this victory was Pakistan 's first win against South Africa in World Cups. It also opens up Group B and the Ireland versus Pakistan clash will turn out to be a key encounter for both the sides. On the other hand , South Africa need to do a lot of soul-searching after they yet again failed to chase down the target . Earlier , South Africa 's key bowlers , Dale Steyn and Morne Morkel shared five wickets between them to give the Proteas the upper hand. Pakistan seemed to be moving towards a position of strength , when Sarfraz 's spark of inspiration with the bat in hand gave them a rousing start. However , once he was dismissed , they lost the plot. Misbah-ul-Haq tried to steady the innings and Afridi landed a few hefty blows , but Pakistan ended up with what seemed like a slightly below par total. Due to rain , the game was also reduced to 47-overs-a-side . It all came down to whether de Villiers could stand alone amidst the ruins and touch stratospheric peaks to take the Proteas to a monumental victory. de Villiers certainly played bedazzling shots. In fact , when de Villiers was exploring every nook and cranny of the ground , the palpating anxiety could be seen in the Pakistani camp. After playing thunderous shots to thump Riaz all over the park , he showed twinkle-toed footwork and used the crease brilliantly to bewitch the crowd with two sixes of Shahid Afridi 's bowling. When Riaz came into the attack and bowled a low full toss , de Villiers nonchalantly smashed him for a six and gave a glimpse of his ability to play versatile shots by cutting the next ball over cover-point for a boundary. However , he just did n't get the support from the other end and de Villiers was eventually , dismissed by Sohail. Sarfraz Ahmed too made his presence felt by taking six catches . Amla , with his surgical-like wrists , threaded through the minutest of gaps to collect boundaries square of the wicket on either side. On the other hand , du Plessis rocked back to play pull shots with a touch of adventurism. But once both of them were dismissed , the pacers ripped through the middle-order. If Irfan extracted pace and bounce , then Rahat got the ball to swing and seam to keep the opposition 's batsmen on tenterhooks. The point can be illustrated by Rahat getting the ball to jag back sharply to trap David Miller plumb in front. Wahab Riaz mixed it up cleverly to land crucial blows. Sohail Khan also made his mark by snaffling the important wicket of de Villiers . Pakistan 's battery of fast bowlers put up a heart-stirring performance to help them upset the apple-cart and defeat their fancied opponents. Even AB de Villiers ' majestic brilliance was n't enough to stop Pakistan from registering a memorable win. After notching up a modest total on the board , it was Mohammad Irfan , who gave Pakistan a fabulous start by snaring the wicket of Quinton de Kock with a peach of a delivery. Irfan got the ball to shape away from the left-handed batsman and with him extracting disconcerting bounce , de Kock could only edge it to the wicket-keeper. Hashim Amla and Faf du Plessis then looked to resurrect South Africa 's fortunes by essaying a slew of boundaries . The Pakistani fans are absolutely elated. Riaz runs to Irfan and hugs him. The entire Pakistani team form a huddle and celebrate. South Africa will be gutted. This was their match after the start they got from Amla and du Plessis , but Pakistan have played some inspirational cricket to turn the match on its head. The Pakistani players shake hands with their opponents. It started to drizzle as the players walk off the field . 33.3 Riaz to Tahir , out Caught by Sarfraz Ahmed ! ! Edgeddddd and taken. Sarfraz takes the 6th catch of the match. What a win this is for Pakistan. Other teams , watch out ! Good length delivery outside off stump , Tahir slashes , gets an outside edge and the keeper made no mistake. So this is the third win in a row for Pakistan in the tournament. They are now level with South Africa on 6 points. Tahir c Sarfraz Ahmed b Riaz 0 ( 6 ) Riaz to Tahir , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 33.2 Riaz to Tahir , no run , round the wicket and a pacy full ball outside off stump , Tahir feels for the ball and misses 33.1 Riaz to M Morkel , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Morkel guides it down to third man 32.6 Sohail Khan to Tahir , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Tahir backs away and slashes but misses 32.5 Sohail Khan to Tahir , no run , good follow-up ball after the yorker. Bouncer on the stumps , Tahir does well to sway out of the line 32.4 Sohail Khan to Tahir , no run , how did he manage to dig that yorker out ? Inswinging toe-crusher on middle stump , Tahir takes his boots out of the way and just manages to bring his bat down at the right time 32.4 Sohail Khan to Tahir , wide , short of length down the leg-side , the keeper tries to fool the umpire with a loud appeal but the umpire signals a wide 32.3 Sohail Khan to Tahir , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Tahir defends AB de Villiers had a word with Morkel while walking back . Imran Tahir , right handed bat , comes to the crease 32.2 Sohail Khan to de Villiers , out Caught by Sarfraz Ahmed ! ! What a time to bowl a bouncer and what a wicket. Sohail 's gone berserk. He 's flying like a bird all across Eden Park. Misbah is elated and surely , Pakistan are on top now. Great bumper following the batsman as he made room to the leg-side , de Villiers opts for the pull after advancing but gets a top edge. Sarfraz takes an easy catch. In fact it 's his 5th catch of the match. The appeal was confident and the umpire raised his finger. Sarfraz knocks over the stumps in joy while celebrating. What a knock from AB. Single-handedly he threatened to take the game away from Pakistan. de Villiers c Sarfraz Ahmed b Sohail Khan 77 ( 58 ) [ 4s-7 6s-5 ] Sohail Khan to de Villiers , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 32.1 Sohail Khan to de Villiers , FOUR , it 's an outside edge there is no one at slip. AB de Villiers backs away and slashes hard at this length ball , gets the bottom of the bat and it goes very fine to the third man boundary. Great start to the over for South Africa South Africa need 36 more runs . 31.6 Riaz to M Morkel , no run , short and outside off stump , Morkel guides it uppishly but it does n't carry to third man Lots of chat about field placing . 31.5 Riaz to de Villiers , 1 run , short of a length outside off stump , guided away to third man 31.4 Riaz to de Villiers , FOUR , no one at sweeper cover and it 's a safe shot. Short and on the off stump , de Villiers backs away and cuts it over cover-point 31.3 Riaz to de Villiers , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , blocked Allan Donald comes onto the field. Not sure why ! Looks like he was sent back as well 31.2 Riaz to de Villiers , SIX , full toss and it 's gone all the way ! Riaz tries the yorker but misses it by a big margin , de Villiers flicks it with a strong bottom hand grip and clears the deep mid-wicket boundary 31.1 Riaz to de Villiers , no run , full and follows de Villiers , the batsman guides it with an angled bat to third man , but he does n't want the run Wahab Riaz [ 6.0-2-33-2 ] is back into the attack Riaz to come round the wicket straightaway. Third man , fine leg back , mid-off , mid-on in 30.6 Sohail Khan to M Morkel , no run , oops ! Morne is hit on the stomach ! Short of a length and rising steeply , Morkel hops and tries to defend , but gets hit on the body. He 's fine though 30.6 Sohail Khan to M Morkel , wide , short ball , Morkel sways out , the umpire does n't like the height on that one 30.5 Sohail Khan to de Villiers , 1 run , follows de Villiers with a full toss as he backs away , de Villiers helps it away to fine leg 30.4 Sohail Khan to M Morkel , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Morkel pushes it to mid-off and takes off , Umar Akmal takes aim and has a shy at the bowler 's end but misses. A direct-hit would have been interesting Two slips in place 30.3 Sohail Khan to de Villiers , 1 run , advances and drives the fuller length delivery to long-on Mid-on has been pushed back 30.2 Sohail Khan to de Villiers , FOUR , down the track , can mid-on get there ? No he cant ! Full and on the leg stump , de Villiers gets to the pitch of the ball and drags the drive , mid-on runs to his right and puts in the dive but the ball beats him 30.1 Sohail Khan to de Villiers , no run , wow ! AB takes everyone by surprise by leaving this length ball alone to the keeper Sohail Khan [ 3.0-0-23-0 ] is back into the attack This is interesting , South Africa have taken the batting powerplay. They need 55 runs with two wickets in hand . Here 's the update on Irfan from Jamie : He 's fine and is fielding at the moment , that should be a big relief for Pakistan , he might still have a part to play with the ball 29.6 Rahat Ali to M Morkel , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Morkel pushes it uppishly towards point , backward point dives to his left but fumbles. AB though , wanting strike , denies the single 29.5 Rahat Ali to M Morkel , FOUR , width on offer and this bloke can bat. Remember , he was an opener once ! Short and wide outside off stump , Morkel rocks back and cuts it through point and opens his account in style. That shot will give de Villiers a lot more confidence that Morne can do the job 29.5 Rahat Ali to M Morkel , wide , short and well over Morne 's head , easy call for the ump 29.4 Rahat Ali to M Morkel , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Morkel defends off the back foot 29.3 Rahat Ali to M Morkel , no run , covers the off stump and lets the length ball go through to the keeper Two slips in place . Morne Morkel , left handed bat , comes to the crease 29.2 Rahat Ali to Kyle Abbott , out Caught by Younis Khan ! ! Rahat Ali gets a key wicket for Pakistan. Just when this partnership was threatening to take the game away from them , Ali has struck. Good length delivery angling away from the right-hander , Abbott looks to defend , but gets a thick edge as the ball jags away off the surface. Younis moves low to his left at second slip and takes a good catch. Kyle Abbott c Younis Khan b Rahat Ali 12 ( 19 ) [ 4s-2 ] Rahat Ali to Kyle Abbott , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 29.1 Rahat Ali to Kyle Abbott , FOUR , wow ! Full and in the slot , Abbott does n't try to overhit the ball , just presents the pull face of the bat and pushes it to the left of the bowler and mid-off had no chance AB de Villiers is now the highest run-getter in the tournament . 28.6 Afridi to de Villiers , no run , tossed up outside off stump , driven softly to cover 28.5 Afridi to de Villiers , SIX , this is from the middle of the bat ! No doubt about it. Flighted delivery on the stumps , de Villiers gets down on one knee and sweeps it handsomely over backward square leg 28.4 Afridi to de Villiers , SIX , 44th ODI fifty for de Villiers ! He dances down the track , gets to the pitch of this flighted delivery and swings hard , the bat turns in his hands , yet it goes a long way over wide long-off 28.3 Afridi to Kyle Abbott , 1 run , googly on the leg stump , worked away to mid-on 28.2 Afridi to Kyle Abbott , no run , on the stumps , defended Slip and leg slip in place for Kyle Abbott 28.1 Afridi to de Villiers , 1 run , flighted delivery on the leg stump , de Villiers pushes it to long-on This is match is not over folks ! Abbott is showing some intent to hang around and if these two get in a partnership , South Africa could well pull off a stunning win ! 27.6 Rahat Ali to Kyle Abbott , no run , just a bit of shape back into the right-hander on this good length delivery , defended 27.5 Rahat Ali to Kyle Abbott , no run , gets behind the line of this short of length delivery and defends it to cover , looks for a run but AB was n't keen 27.5 Rahat Ali to Kyle Abbott , no run 27.4 Rahat Ali to Kyle Abbott , no run , short and just outside off stump , Abbott lets it go 27.3 Rahat Ali to de Villiers , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , de Villiers punches it off the back foot to mid-off 27.2 Rahat Ali to de Villiers , FOUR , good length delivery outside off stump , de Villiers slices it with an open face , Shehzad flies to his left at backward point but it goes over him 27.1 Rahat Ali to Kyle Abbott , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Abbott defends and gets a toe-end , the ball goes onto the ground and hits his arm , de Villiers charges to get back on strike , Abbott was late to take off but he got there in the end Rahat Ali [ 6.0-1-25-2 ] is back into the attack 26.6 Afridi to Kyle Abbott , 1 run , tossed up outside off stump , Abbott drives it to long-off 26.5 Afridi to Kyle Abbott , no run , flatter delivery , Abbott defends 26.4 Afridi to Kyle Abbott , FOUR , down the leg-side , Abbott tickles it fine , the ball goes very fine to fine leg , Yasir Shah gives chase and dives but the ball wins the race. Oops ! He lost his pants while sliding 26.3 Afridi to Kyle Abbott , no run , tossed up outside off stump , Abbott drives it back to the bowler 26.2 Afridi to de Villiers , leg byes , 1 run , flighted delivery outside off stump , de Villiers fails to connect the sweep and gets hit on the pad , but the impact was well outside off stump and it was spinning away as well. That is a dreadful review from Pakistan , a mere waste of time Optimistic shout for LBW. ABdV misses the sweep. Oh that is a shocking decision from Pakistan to review that. The impact was yards outside off stump. The keeper was clearly indicating that de Villiers was outside the line 26.1 Afridi to de Villiers , no run , driven straight to extra-cover 25.6 Irfan to Kyle Abbott , no run , short of length angling away from the right-hander , left alone 25.5 Irfan to de Villiers , 1 run , shortish from Irfan , de Villiers pulls , the fielder at mid-wicket fumbles 25.4 Irfan to de Villiers , no run , hops across the stumps and defends Irfan is ready to go. Looks like it is not the hamstring for Irfan. It 's a muscle on the back , but he 's fine now . AB de Villiers and JP Duminy looked to steady South Africa 's innings , but with Duminy too getting out to Mohammad Irfan 's bowling , Pakistan looked set to upset the apple-cart and defeat the Proteas. Irfan followed it up with the wicket of Dale Steyn. South Africa desperately need de Villiers ' majestic brilliance to come to the fore and someone has to give him support. For a brief period , de Villiers took his batting to an elevated plane by thumping Riaz for two sixes and a four . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the last 13 overs : South Africa 's struggles continued while chasing down a target as David Miller was trapped in front by Rahat Ali. Surprisingly , Miller went for the review and the decision was rightly upheld. Pakistan have been rewarded for some exceptional bowling. First and foremost , they have looked for wickets by pitching it up. With the pacers getting the ball to swing and seam , the South African batsmen found themselves all at sea . Oops ! Irfan is down on his knees. Looks like he has done his right hamstring. After delivering the ball , he signalled immediately to the physio to attend to him and he 's getting some treatment now. Meanwhile , the umpires have called for the drinks break 25.3 Irfan to de Villiers , no run , AB goes leg-side , Irfan bowls a slower ball , de Villiers mistimes the cut to point 25.2 Irfan to Kyle Abbott , 1 run , pushes this to mid-on and gets off strike 25.1 Irfan to de Villiers , 1 run , mistimed pull and it just goes over the man at mid-wicket , de Villiers thought he was gone and just stood there after hitting the ball. The steep bounce of Irfan hit de Villiers high on the bat and the ball evaded Younis Khan , who was running back and to his left from mid-wicket 24.6 Afridi to Kyle Abbott , no run , tossed up outside off stump , Abbott defends it to cover 24.5 Afridi to Kyle Abbott , no run , flatter in trajectory , punched off the back foot to backward point 24.4 Afridi to Kyle Abbott , no run , flatter ball outside off stump , left alone , but it was close to the off stump 24.3 Afridi to Kyle Abbott , no run , nice drift for Afridi into the right-hander as he bowls this full , Abbott taps it into the off-side 24.2 Afridi to Kyle Abbott , no run , the slider from Afridi , Abbott manages to keep it out 24.1 Afridi to de Villiers , 1 run , flighted delivery outside off stump , de Villiers drives it to sweeper cover Kyle Abbott , right handed bat , comes to the crease 23.6 Irfan to Steyn , out Caught by Sarfraz Ahmed ! ! No Dale Steyn ! This is not what South Africa wanted from you. You had to support your captain , who 's been batting well at the other end. Short of a length delivery from Irfan , Steyn tries a gallery hit as he swings hard at it , gets a thick edge and the keeper takes a good catch after timing his jump to perfection. Pakistan are into the tail now ! Steyn c Sarfraz Ahmed b Irfan 16 ( 17 ) [ 4s-3 ] Irfan to Steyn , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 23.5 Irfan to Steyn , no run , a wild swing from Steyn but he only connects with thin air. Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Steyn is comprehensively beaten 23.4 Irfan to Steyn , no run , low full toss on the off stump , a crunchy off-drive but straight to mid-off Irfan comes down the wicket 23.3 Irfan to Steyn , FOUR , he 's flat-batted that past the bowler and also managed to beat mid-on. Steyn hops to the leg-side and smashes this to the right of Irfan and mid-on had no chance 23.2 Irfan to Steyn , no run , gets behind the line of this short of length delivery and defends well 23.1 Irfan to Steyn , FOUR , edgedddd but just over the slip cordon ! Short of a length delivery angling away from the right-hander , Steyn looks to cut , the extra bounce takes the edge and goes over first slip , who jumped high to try and grab the ball Jamie says it 's gone tense at the Eden Park. AB is the key for both teams. But can he get support from the other end ? 22.6 Afridi to Steyn , 1 run , ends the over with a googly , Steyn does n't pick it early , reads off the pitch and uppishly works it away to square leg 22.5 Afridi to Steyn , no run , the wrong 'un from Lala , Steyn misses the flick and gets hit on the pad but the ball is slipping down the leg-side 22.4 Afridi to Steyn , no run , flatter in trajectory , Steyn fends it wide of short mid-wicket , de Villiers wants a run but Steyn sends him back 22.3 Afridi to Steyn , no run , on the off stump , blocked well by Steyn 22.2 Afridi to Steyn , no run , bit of drift in and then turn away on this flighted delivery , Steyn defends off the front foot 22.1 Afridi to de Villiers , 1 run , spinning away outside off stump , de Villiers drives it to sweeper cover 22.1 Afridi to de Villiers , 1 run , spinning away outside off stump Shahid Afridi [ 1.0-0-6-0 ] is back into the attack 21.6 Irfan to Steyn , no run , in the air again , but safe again ! Steep bounce on this short of length delivery offering from Irfan troubles Steyn , who looks to defend , the ball hits him on the splice but luckily does n't carry to point 21.5 Irfan to de Villiers , 1 run , that is the 1000th run for de Villiers in World Cups. Good length delivery outside off stump , de Villiers dabs it to third man. He 's the joint-quickest to get to the landmark , alongside Sachin Tendulkar 21.4 Irfan to Steyn , 3 runs , Steyn does n't bother to get behind the line of this length ball around the off stump , just punches it through mid-off , who was very square , that 's a teaser for the fielder as it slows down near the boundary 21.3 Irfan to Steyn , no run , good length delivery , defended 21.2 Irfan to Steyn , no run , leading edge in the air , but does n't carry to Afridi at point. Steyn was slightly opened up in his defence as this short of length delivery nipped away off the deck 21.1 Irfan to Steyn , FOUR , oh no , Yasir Shah ! The substitute has fumbled one and it 's gone for four. Short and outside off stump , Steyn cuts it over backward point , Shah overruns the ball running to his right from third man , gets his left hand to it but it escapes to the boundary 20.6 Riaz to de Villiers , no run , fullish and on the off stump , de Villiers defends. 17 runs came off the over 20.5 Riaz to de Villiers , SIX , the change of angle does n't work for Riaz. This is a fine counter-attack from the South African skipper. Short of a length on the off stump , similar to the previous six , de Villiers hops across the stumps and helps it away , it goes flat this time and hits the advertisement board next to the rope 20.4 Riaz to de Villiers , no run , Riaz goes round the wicket and delivers a short of length delivery just outside off stump , de Villiers defends off the back foot 20.3 Riaz to de Villiers , SIX , top shot sir ! Short of a length delivery on the stumps , de Villiers gets inside the line and just helps it away over backward square leg on one leg. The ball easily clears the boundary 20.3 Riaz to de Villiers , wide , excellent diving take by Sarfraz ! Short and on the stumps , de Villiers lets it go. The keeper jumps high and grabs it with his right hand 20.2 Riaz to de Villiers , no run , de Villiers jumps and looks to work the short of length delivery towards mid-wicket again , but gets a soft leading edge that goes to cover 20.1 Riaz to de Villiers , FOUR , my word ! What a shot from de Villiers ! Can someone support him till the end ? Short of a length delivery on the leg stump , de Villiers hops across and plays a back foot punch , there is no one at mid-wicket and the ball beats Afridi in the deep , who gives chase running to his left 19.6 Irfan to Steyn , no run , Steyn is greeted with a bouncer first-up , he drops his gloves and sways away from the line 19.5 Irfan to de Villiers , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , AB shuffles across and nurdles it in front of mid-wicket for a single Dale Steyn , right handed bat , comes to the crease 19.4 Irfan to Duminy , out Caught by Riaz ! ! Duminy has thrown his wicket away ! This was banged in short and just outside off , does n't rise as much as Duminy expected , he was looking to pull , ends up getting a top-edge. Riaz runs in from long leg and takes a well judged catch , sliding forward. 6th wicket down and AB is left with just the tailenders. Duminy c Riaz b Irfan 12 ( 13 ) [ 4s-2 ] Irfan to Duminy , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 19.3 Irfan to Duminy , no run , on a length and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler 19.2 Irfan to Duminy , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Duminy was pushing forward , the ball gets big on him , he drops his bottom hand and takes a blow on his gloves 19.1 Irfan to Duminy , FOUR , wrong line from Irfan , full and on Duminy 's pads , he gets inside the line and helps it on its way , the ball races away to the fence in a hurry Mohammad Irfan [ 4.0-0-28-1 ] is back into the attack 18.6 Riaz to de Villiers , no run , back of a length and on off , punched back towards the bowler who makes a tumbling stop 18.5 Riaz to Duminy , 1 run , tad fuller and on off , pushed in front of mid-on for a quick single 18.5 Riaz to Duminy , wide , another bouncer from Riaz , but it 's a bit too high though , called as a wide 18.4 Riaz to de Villiers , 1 run , short and angling back into AB , he was looking to steer it down towards third man , the ball was too close for the shot , he arches back , drops his gloves and runs it down towards third run 18.3 Riaz to Duminy , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on Duminy 's pads , flicked to the left of mid-on for a single 18.2 Riaz to Duminy , no run , another bumper from Riaz , Duminy was thinking about playing the pull , drops his wrists at the last moment and lets it go 18.1 Riaz to Duminy , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven crisply but straight to the fielder at cover 17.6 Rahat Ali to de Villiers , no run , that 's a snorter of a short ball , AB does very well to drop his gloves and yanks his head away from the line at the last moment , looks at the square leg umpire , perhaps for a wide , but there 's nothing given 17.5 Rahat Ali to de Villiers , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , AB punches it to the right of mid-off. Misbah is swift to get across and prevents runs 17.4 Rahat Ali to Duminy , 1 run , on a good length and on Duminy 's pads , nudged wide of mid-on for a single 17.3 Rahat Ali to Duminy , no run , a direct hit and AB was a goner , Rahat banged one short and just outside off as Duminy came down the track , nudged in front of short mid-wicket , de Villiers took off for a quick single , the bowler gets across him , picks up the ball and shies at the bowler 's end , AB was haring back and was well short , had the ball hit the stumps 17.2 Rahat Ali to Duminy , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Duminy presses across and defends it 17.1 Rahat Ali to de Villiers , 1 run , too straight from Rahat , worked away in front of square on the on-side for a single 16.6 Riaz to de Villiers , 1 run , Riaz bangs one short and on the stumps , AB gets inside the line and helps it on its way , just a single to long leg 16.5 Riaz to de Villiers , no run , Riaz keeps it full and on the stumps , AB presents the full face of the bat and punches it towards mid-on 16.4 Riaz to Duminy , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , dabbed away towards third man for a single 16.3 Riaz to de Villiers , 1 run , short of a length and well outside off , slapped away square on the off-side for a single 16.2 Riaz to de Villiers , FOUR , classy from AB , width on offer from Riaz , AB stays behind the line and cracks it square on the off-side , no need to run for those 16.1 Riaz to de Villiers , FOUR , that 's nicely done by AB and some comical fielding at the ropes from Irfan. Short of a length and sitting up on AB , he stays back , presents the full face of the bat and punches it through mid-wicket. Irfan gives the chase , stops the ball and slips , ends up hitting the ropes with the ball in his hands 15.6 Rahat Ali to Duminy , FOUR , that 's a gorgeous drive to get off the mark , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Duminy gets well forward , presents the full face of the bat and punches it back past the bowler , no need to run for those Jean-Paul Duminy , left handed bat , comes to the crease 15.5 Rahat Ali to D Miller , out Lbw ! ! South Africa have lost half their side now. Exceptional bowling from Rahat , this was full and jagged back in sharply , Miller was looking to flick it towards the on-side , fell over as he played and missed , the ball thudded into the back pad. The impact was around middle and it would have gone on to take out a good chunk of the leg-stump. Umpire Oxenford thought for a while before raising the dreaded finger. Miller asks for a review , but the replays suggest he was wrong. D Miller lbw b Rahat Ali 0 ( 13 ) Rahat Ali to D Miller , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Miller has been given out LBW , he wants a review. That looked very close to the naked eye. Late swing and it hit the back pad , looks OUT , the impact seems to be around middle. Three REDS , Miller is OUT 15.4 Rahat Ali to D Miller , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Miller presses across and gets an inside edge towards square leg 15.3 Rahat Ali to D Miller , no run , Miller is n't looking comfortable one bit , on a good length and a hint of shape back into the batsman , he plays away from his body and the ball sneaks through the gap between bat and pad 15.2 Rahat Ali to de Villiers , 1 run , too full and too straight from Rahat , flicked away towards fine leg for a single 15.1 Rahat Ali to de Villiers , no run , fuller length and well outside off , AB drives it straight to Shehzad at point 14.6 Riaz to D Miller , no run , short and wide from Riaz , Miller goes hard on the cut and mistimes it towards cover 14.5 Riaz to D Miller , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Miller prods across and clips it towards mid-wicket 14.4 Riaz to D Miller , no run , that 's a cracker from Riaz , he 's been very impressive tonight , pitched up and held its line outside off , Miller was expecting it to swing into him , closed the face of the bat and looked to whip , beaten on the outside edge 14.3 Riaz to D Miller , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended towards cover-point 14.2 Riaz to D Miller , no run , Riaz keeps it full and just outside off , Miller closes the face of the bat and drives it towards mid-on 14.1 Riaz to de Villiers , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , AB presents the full face of the bat and punches it to the right of Misbah at mid-off , first run off Riaz 13.6 Rahat Ali to D Miller , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Miller stays back and pushes it towards point 13.5 Rahat Ali to de Villiers , 1 run , too straight from Rahat , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single 13.4 Rahat Ali to de Villiers , no run , length ball on AB 's pads , turned towards square leg 13.3 Rahat Ali to de Villiers , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , left alone The umpire is having a concerned look at where Rahat ends up on his followthrough 13.2 Rahat Ali to de Villiers , no run , back of a length and just outside off , AB prods across and punches it towards cover-point 13.1 Rahat Ali to de Villiers , no run , that 's loose from AB , is the pressure telling on him ? On a good length and shaping away from outside off , he hangs his bat on that , nearly edges it through to the keeper 12.6 Riaz to D Miller , no run , short and angling away from outside off , left alone 12.5 Riaz to D Miller , no run , short of a length and well outside off , punched straight to the fielder at point 12.4 Riaz to D Miller , no run , that 's a ripping bouncer from Riaz , Miller drops his wrists and sways away from the line 12.3 Riaz to D Miller , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , punched back towards the bowler David Miller , left handed bat , comes to the crease However , the experienced duo of Hashim Amla and Faf du Plessis played with composure to pick up the scoring rate. Initially , both the batsmen looked to play straight and took quick singles. Amla also used his supple wrists to play a slew of sparkling drives. On the other hand , du Plessis used the pull shot to good effect. Rahat Ali though , produced the vital breakthrough by snaffling the wicket of du Plessis. To make it even better for Pakistan , Wahab Riaz followed it up by sending Amla back to the pavilion. The credit also has to go to Sarfraz Ahmed , who took a brilliant catch behind the stumps. South Africa then found themselves in trouble with Rilee Rossouw being dismissed. In recent times , South Africa have struggled to chase down targets . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the first 12.2 overs : Pakistan 's pace duo of Mohammad Irfan and Sohail Khan generated movement in the air and off the track to cause a few problems for the batsmen upfront. In fact , Irfan gave Pakistan a fabulous start by getting a bit of shape away from Quinton de Kock to produce the edge and snare his wicket in the first over of the innings. Irfan 's ability to extract bounce resulted in de Kock getting caught in the crease. In short , it was a peach of a delivery. de Kock has certainly been in poor form in this World Cup. When the opposition ranks cramp him up for room , he does n't seem to have any answer . Drinks are on the field now 12.2 Riaz to Rossouw , out Caught by Sohail Khan ! ! Rossouw has found long leg to perfection , South Africa are in serious trouble now ! This was banged in short and on the stumps , Rossouw swivelled across on the pull , does n't bother to keep it along the ground , the ball goes straight into Sohail 's laps at long leg , all of a sudden , Riaz has two. That was loose from Rossouw , perhaps got carried away with his previous knocks , RSA find themselves in some trouble , for the second time during a chase. Rossouw c Sohail Khan b Riaz 6 ( 9 ) [ 4s-1 ] Riaz to Rossouw , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 12.1 Riaz to Rossouw , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , slapped straight to the fielder at cover 11.6 Rahat Ali to de Villiers , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , AB watches it all along and defends it with soft hands 11.5 Rahat Ali to Rossouw , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Rossouw shuffles across and nudges it to the left of mid-wicket for a single 11.4 Rahat Ali to Rossouw , no run , on a good length and well outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover 11.3 Rahat Ali to Rossouw , FOUR , that 's a wild slog from Rossouw , relieves some pressure though , tad fuller and just outside off , not the length for the pull , was quick onto him as well , gets it high on the bat , gets enough to clear mid-on 11.2 Rahat Ali to de Villiers , 1 run , back of a length and on AB 's pads , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single 11.1 Rahat Ali to Rossouw , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , punched back towards the bowler who makes a half-stop , the fielder at mid-off gives chase and keeps them down to a single 10.6 Riaz to de Villiers , no run , full and wide from Riaz , AB went hard on the drive , ends up mistiming it towards cover , back-to-back wicket maidens for Pakistan 10.5 Riaz to de Villiers , no run , back of a length and on the stumps , AB shuffles across and tucks it towards square leg 10.4 Riaz to de Villiers , no run , short of a length and well outside off , AB presses across and chops it towards point 10.3 Riaz to de Villiers , no run , short lifter from Riaz , AB watches it all along , rides with the bounce and fends it away 10.2 Riaz to de Villiers , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , de Villiers punches it with a straight bat , bounces well in front of mid-off AB de Villiers , right handed bat , comes to the crease 10.1 Riaz to Amla , out Caught by Sarfraz Ahmed ! ! That 's a stunning catch from Sarfraz Ahmed and Amla is walking ! Pakistan are definitely back in this now. But hang on ? The umpires have asked Amla to stay on , they are checking if it 's a clean catch ? It 's carried comfortably , Amla was walking early on and he will continue to walk back to the hut. That 's a huge wicket for Pakistan , Riaz has struck with his first ball. This was pitched up and nipped away from outside off , Amla was lured into poking at that , plays well wide of his body and with an open face , gets a thick edge to the right of the keeper. He dives across and holds onto it with his right glove , even as the ball was dying on him. That 's a splendid take , third catch of the innings from Sarfraz. Amla c Sarfraz Ahmed b Riaz 38 ( 27 ) [ 4s-9 ] Riaz to Amla , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Wahab Riaz , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 9.6 Rahat Ali to Rossouw , no run , back of a length and just outside off , defended with a straight bat , that 's a wicket-maiden from Rahat 9.5 Rahat Ali to Rossouw , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rossouw stays behind the line and defends it 9.4 Rahat Ali to Rossouw , no run , short of a length and holding its line outside off , left alone Rilee Rossouw , left handed bat , comes to the crease 9.3 Rahat Ali to du Plessis , out Caught by Sarfraz Ahmed ! ! A wicket against the run of play ! Pakistan needed this wicket badly , this was pushed across the right-hander , he was n't in a great position as he looked to steer it down towards third man , only gets a faint nick and it 's gobbled up by Sarfraz. The threatening stand has been broken , can Pakistan create further openings ? du Plessis c Sarfraz Ahmed b Rahat Ali 27 ( 29 ) [ 4s-3 6s-1 ] Rahat Ali to du Plessis , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 9.2 Rahat Ali to du Plessis , no run , fuller length delivery and on off , du Plessis presents the full face of the bat and blocks 9.1 Rahat Ali to du Plessis , no run , on a length and just outside off , du Plessis shuffles across and defends it back towards the bowler 8.6 Afridi to Amla , no run , flighted and well outside off , Amla backs away and mistimes the cut towards point 8.5 Afridi to Amla , FOUR , this is easy pickings for Amla , too short and too wide from Afridi , Amla gets across and cracks it square past point , no need to run for those 8.4 Afridi to Amla , no run , slower and just outside off , Amla closes the face of the bat and dabs it past the lone slip 8.3 Afridi to Amla , 2 runs , Amla is finally made to earn his runs , flatter and on his pads , whipped in front of square on the on-side for a brace 8.2 Afridi to Amla , no run , slower and just outside off , punched off the back foot and straight to extra cover 8.1 Afridi to Amla , no run , flatter and well outside off , cuts it straight to the fielder at extra cover Shahid Afridi , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 7.6 Rahat Ali to du Plessis , FOUR , too short from Rahat , ca n't bowl this with his pace , du Plessis swivels across and helps it over square leg , another boundary to round off the over 7.5 Rahat Ali to du Plessis , no run , tad fuller and going away with the angle , chopped straight to the fielder at backward point 7.4 Rahat Ali to du Plessis , no run , back of a length and just outside off , punched straight to the fielder at point 7.3 Rahat Ali to du Plessis , SIX , that 's easy pickings for du Plessis , the short boundaries does n't help Pakistan 's cause one bit either , this was banged in short and just outside leg , du Plessis was looking to help it on its way , gets a top-edge and the ball flies over the ropes for a maximum 7.2 Rahat Ali to du Plessis , no run , on a good length and just outside off , du Plessis presses across and defends it towards the off-side 7.1 Rahat Ali to du Plessis , no run , on a good length and just outside off , du Plessis stays back and defends it towards cover-point Rahat Ali , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 6.6 Irfan to Amla , FOUR , 8th boundary for Amla , he 's got all his runs only in fours , this was short and just outside off , Amla rocks back and pulls it wide of mid-on for another boundary 6.5 Irfan to Amla , no run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed away with an open face towards point 6.4 Irfan to Amla , FOUR , Pakistan are letting the initiative go here , this was full and on Amla 's pads , whipped away in front of square leg , Afridi dives in vain and the man in the deep is very square. A rush of boundaries here for South Africa 6.3 Irfan to du Plessis , 1 run , short and angling away from outside off , du Plessis looks to pull and ends up dragging it behind square on the on-side for a single 6.2 Irfan to du Plessis , FOUR , too short from Irfan , not much venom on it either , du Plessis swivels across , rolls his wrists and pulls it over square leg for a boundary Now , Amla is at the top of the batting charts in this World Cup. He started his innings in the 5th position 6.1 Irfan to du Plessis , no run , on a good length and angling away from the right-hander , mistimed drive towards cover 5.6 Sohail Khan to Amla , no run , short and well outside off , Amla drops his wrists and lets it go A short cover is in place now , just one slip 5.5 Sohail Khan to Amla , FOUR , you ca n't bowl there to this man , full and wide from Sohail , Amla drills it square on the off-side for a boundary , no one moved 5.4 Sohail Khan to Amla , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Amla gets behind the line and defends it 5.3 Sohail Khan to Amla , FOUR , Sohail is leaking runs here ! Fraction shorter and just outside off , Amla swivels across and pulls it over mid-wicket , back-to-back boundaries 5.2 Sohail Khan to Amla , FOUR , this is exceptional batting from Amla , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Amla leans forward and drives it past extra cover. Misbah puts in a dive at mid-off , but the ball beats him to the fence 5.1 Sohail Khan to du Plessis , 3 runs , more runs , this time for du Plessis , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven square past cover. Akmal gives the chase and hauls the ball back in , du Plessis gets back for the third run 4.6 Irfan to Amla , no run , on a good length and just outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover Back over the wicket 4.5 Irfan to Amla , FOUR , that 's a lovely shot from Amla , width on offer from Irfan , Amla throws his hands at that and cracks it square through extra cover , the ball races away to the fence 4.4 Irfan to du Plessis , 1 run , on a good length and shaping back in , du Plessis hops across and nudges it in front of cover-point , calls for a quick single and beats the throw with ease Irfan changes to round the wicket 4.3 Irfan to du Plessis , no run , fuller length delivery and slanting across the right-hander , left alone 4.2 Irfan to du Plessis , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , hits du Plessis high on the bat as he pressed forward in defence 4.1 Irfan to du Plessis , no run , short of a length and shaping away from outside off , left alone 3.6 Sohail Khan to Amla , no run , on a good length and well outside off , defended off the back foot and towards mid-off 3.5 Sohail Khan to Amla , FOUR , tad fuller and just outside off , Amla leans forward , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and slices it square on the off-side , beats Riaz running across from third man 3.4 Sohail Khan to du Plessis , 1 run , fuller length delivery and nipping back in slightly , du Plessis was shuffling across a long way on the flick , the umpire reckoned that there was an inside edge on that , looked close otherwise Loud shout for LBW , Pakistan will not review 3.3 Sohail Khan to du Plessis , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , he covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 3.2 Sohail Khan to du Plessis , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended with a straight bat 3.1 Sohail Khan to du Plessis , no run , that cut du Plessis in half ! Tad fuller and nipping back in late , Faf was hanging on the back foot , looks to get his bat down and misses , the ball sneaks through on its way to the keeper 2.6 Irfan to Amla , no run , back of a length and going away with the angle , left alone Irfan has got an unoffical warning from umpire Kettleborough , for running on the pitch 2.5 Irfan to Amla , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Amla shuffles across and blocks it 2.4 Irfan to Amla , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , punched towards Misbah at mid-off 2.3 Irfan to Amla , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Amla hops across in the air and defends it towards the off-side Faf also took out a decent chunk of the turf with his dive. The hammer is out and the repair work is being done 2.2 Irfan to du Plessis , 1 run , du Plessis has demolished the stumps at the bowler 's end , but might have well been short if the fielder had hit the stumps instead. This was full and well outside off , driven to the left of mid-off. Misbah brings out a tumbling stop , the batsmen look to sneak in a quick single. Misbah turns around and shies at the bowler 's end , misses the target by a long way. du Plessis was diving in and smashes into all the three stumps 2.1 Irfan to du Plessis , FOUR , fuller length delivery and just outside off , du Plessis leans forward , closes the face of the bat and drives it back towards the bowler. Irfan gets a hand onto it but the ball races away to the fence in a hurry 1.6 Sohail Khan to Amla , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Amla stays behind the line and defends it 1.5 Sohail Khan to Amla , no run , fraction fuller and just outside off , Amla shuffles across and flicks it towards mid-on 1.4 Sohail Khan to Amla , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Amla gets behind the line and blocks it towards cover 1.3 Sohail Khan to du Plessis , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , du Plessis stays back and punches it to the right of point for a single 1.3 Sohail Khan to du Plessis , wide , Sohail slips once again well down leg , wide called 1.3 Sohail Khan to du Plessis , wide , wrong line from Sohail , slips this one well down leg-side. du Plessis looked to flick and missed , Sohail goes up in an appeal for caught behind , but the umpire signals it as a wide 1.2 Sohail Khan to du Plessis , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , left alone 1.1 Sohail Khan to du Plessis , no run , that 's a beauty from Sohail , pitched up around off , wobbles in the air and nips away , du Plessis has to play at that , pushes forward with a straight bat and is beaten Sohail Khan , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Irfan to Amla , FOUR , that 's neatly done by Amla , too straight from Irfan , ends up drifting onto Amla 's pads , he gets inside the line and gets a fine tickle , the ball races away to the fence in a hurry 0.5 Irfan to du Plessis , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , pushed to the left of cover-point for a quick single 0.4 Irfan to du Plessis , no run , tad fuller and shaping away from outside off , du Plessis watches it all along , lifts his bat and lets it go 0.3 Irfan to du Plessis , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , du Plessis prods across , lifts his bat and lets it go Faf du Plessis , right handed bat , comes to the crease 0.2 Irfan to de Kock , out Caught by Sarfraz Ahmed ! ! An absolute jaffa from Irfan , this was pitched on a good length and shaped away slightly , de Kock was drawn into pushing at that , there 's a big noise as soon as the ball went past the bat , it could n't have been anything other than bat hitting ball. Sarfraz Ahmed does n't drop those , Irfan was convinced , so was the keeper and the entire slip cordon. de Kock walks away with a grin on his face , the umpire 's check for a no-ball , but Irfan 's fine on that count as well. Dream start for Pakistan and Irfan. de Kock c Sarfraz Ahmed b Irfan 0 ( 2 ) Irfan to de Kock , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! de Kock has been given out , he 's walking 0.1 Irfan to de Kock , no run , back of a length and just outside off , de Kock hops across and defends it towards the off-side de Kock and Amla are at the crease. de Kock is on strike. Irfan will open the attack Two slips and a gully in place and there 's a fielder at leg gully Welcome back.. Quinton de Kock needs runs. He 's one SA player who has n't contributed with the bat so far in this tournament. . South Africa need 232 from 47 overs , under the D/L method Abbott : 'Philander has been struggling with a hammy. He looked fine yesterday evening , but woke up stiff. Hence , I got my chance. It 's difficult to come after a rain break , both for the batsmen and the bowlers. We took the opportunity and got a few wickets. I do n't know the exact target , might be 230 odd , confident that we will chase it down.' South Africa 's fielding was top notch as well. Steyn with athletic strides ran back from mid-on to take an excellent catch , as Shehzad took a long walk back to the pavilion with a forlorn look on his face. David Miller 's fine throw also resulted in the run out of Sarfraz. Their ground fielding too was on the money , as they stopped the batsmen from taking quick singles and rotate the strike. On the other hand , Pakistan would rue the fact that they lost wickets in clusters. Pakistan have a decent attack on paper , but South Africa should fancy their chances of chasing down this target . For South Africa , their key bowlers , Morkel and Dale Steyn bowled parsimoniously. Steyn swung the new ball and generally bowled with good control to take three wickets. He showed his class by bowling a maiden over and taking the key wicket of Misbah in the 44th over of the innings. Morkel , even on a good wicket for batting , extracted awkward bounce to keep the batsmen on their toes. Abbott used the crease and a slew of variations to take a couple wickets. Imran Tahir with his potent googly and quicker ones kept it tight in the middle overs. South Africa would also be happy with the fact that they could get away with just four regular bowlers. Now , when up against a better batting line-up that may turn out to be their weakness . Unfortunately for Pakistan , none of the batsmen went on to compile a big score. Younis Khan , for the first time in this World Cup , looked in decent touch , but he gifted his wicket away by getting out to AB de Villiers ' military medium pace. Sohaib Maqsood followed him back to the pavilion as he was dismissed by Kyle Abbott. Umar Akmal , known for lighting up stadiums with a wide array of sparkling shots , then was dismissed by Morne Morkel. Those crucial blows adversely affected Pakistan. Misbah yet again had to shepherd their innings and he amassed a fine fifty. Shahid Afridi 's cameo lifted Pakistan 's sagging spirits to some extent , but they lost wickets in a heap in the slog overs and were bowled out South Africa took wickets at regular intervals to pull the batting side back and cleaned up Pakistan for a below par total. With rain stopping play twice , it was reduced to 47-overs-a-side match and South Africa now have to chase down a D/L adjusted score. Earlier , It was Sarfraz Ahmed , who gave Pakistan a rousing start. Despite losing his opening partner , Ahmed Shehzad , Sarfraz , struck to the old maxim of playing each ball on its merit and took full advantage of some ordinary bowling by the part-timers. In particular , he showed exemplary footwork to thrash JP Duminy for three sparkling sixes in a single over. However , he was run out just when he was set . 46.4 M Morkel to Sohail Khan , out Caught by Duminy ! ! Pakistan have been bundled out for 222. Excellent comeback from South Africa after the second rain break. This was full and on the stumps , Sohail Khan backed away on the slog , does n't get anywhere near the middle of the bat , gets a lot of height and is easily claimed by Duminy , running forward from mid-off. Sohail Khan c Duminy b M Morkel 3 ( 11 ) M Morkel to Sohail Khan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 46.3 M Morkel to Irfan , 1 run , yorker on middle , Irfan just about gets his bat down and gets an inside edge towards fine-leg , off strike with a single 46.2 M Morkel to Irfan , no run , another wild hack and a miss , Irfan backed away to a full ball , was looking to deposit it out of the stadium and missed 46.1 M Morkel to Irfan , no run , that 's a nasty bumper from Morkel , but equally well played by Irfan , watches it all along and sways away from the line 45.6 Steyn to Sohail Khan , no run , fuller length delivery and on off , clipped to the right of mid-wicket. Sohail wants a single but Irfan never gets out of his crease 45.5 Steyn to Sohail Khan , no run , another bumper from Steyn , Sohail ducks under it 45.4 Steyn to Sohail Khan , no run , a direct hit from Duminy and Irfan was a goner. Steyn followed Sohail as he backed away , he ends up pushing it towards mid-wicket , Irfan set off for a single and is sent back. He had no hope and was miles out had Duminy found his target 45.3 Steyn to Sohail Khan , no run , the bumper from Steyn , Sohail Khan ducks under it and lets it go Mohammad Irfan , right handed bat , comes to the crease 45.2 Steyn to Rahat Ali , out Caught by Tahir ! ! That 's a good catch from Tahir at mid-off ! This was full and on the stumps , bowled with a scrambled seam , Rahat Ali made room for the lofted off-drive , does n't get hold of the shot and ends up scooping it to the right of mid-off. Tahir gets across , holds onto the catch and joins in the celebrations. Pakistan have lost their ninth wicket. Rahat Ali c Tahir b Steyn 1 ( 6 ) Steyn to Rahat Ali , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 45.1 Steyn to Sohail Khan , 1 run , on a good length and on the stumps , worked away behind square on the on-side for a single 44.6 M Morkel to Sohail Khan , 1 run , length ball and on Sohail 's pads , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single 44.5 M Morkel to Rahat Ali , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed away towards third man for a single 44.4 M Morkel to Rahat Ali , no run , Rahat makes room to a full ball and drills it straight to the fielder at cover 44.3 M Morkel to Rahat Ali , no run , back of a length and coming back with the angle , Rahat looks to force it away off the back foot , gets an inside edge towards short mid-wicket 44.2 M Morkel to Rahat Ali , no run , another bouncer from Morkel , Rahat gets inside the line and lets it go 44.1 M Morkel to Rahat Ali , no run , the bumper from Morkel , Ali ducks under it and lets it go Morne Morkel [ 8.0-0-22-1 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Steyn to Sohail Khan , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Sohail Khan pokes at that and gets a bottom edge towards 1st slip , that 's a wicket-maiden from Steyn Rahat Ali , right handed bat , comes to the crease 43.5 Steyn to Misbah , out Caught by M Morkel ! ! Steyn exults in joy ! Misbah 's strategy of not taking singles does n't work. This was short and just outside off , Misbah was looking to ramp it down towards third man , he just guided the ball on its way , hits it straight to Morne at third man , he takes it cleanly and makes sure that he did n't step onto the ropes. The umpires check for a front foot no-ball , but Steyn 's fine on that count as well. Pakistan are falling away towards the back end of the innings. Misbah c M Morkel b Steyn 56 ( 86 ) [ 4s-4 ] Steyn to Misbah , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 43.4 Steyn to Misbah , no run , short of a length and well outside off , Misbah took a step outside leg before getting across , does n't strike it well , the ball rolls towards point 43.3 Steyn to Misbah , no run , yorker length delivery and well outside off as Misbah backed away outside leg-stump , he reaches out and toe-ends it towards point 43.2 Steyn to Misbah , no run , short of a length and just outside off , nudged towards mid-wicket , refuses the single 43.1 Steyn to Misbah , leg byes , FOUR , that 's neatly done by Misbah , although he will not get runs to his name. He backed away , Steyn followed him and drifted onto his pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball races away off the pads Dale Steyn [ 8.0-2-29-1 ] is back into the attack 42.6 Tahir to Sohail Khan , no run , pushed through and on Sohail 's pads , he looks to work it towards the on-side and is hit on the pads 42.5 Tahir to Sohail Khan , no run , flatter and just outside off , Sohail Khan backs away and cuts it straight to the fielder at backward point 42.4 Tahir to Misbah , 1 run , full-toss from Tahir , Misbah backs away and drives it towards mid-off , takes on AB for a single. The fielder ca n't grip the ball properly and does n't shy at the stumps 42.3 Tahir to Misbah , no run , pushed through flatter and quicker , Misbah blocks it 42.2 Tahir to Sohail Khan , 1 run , low full toss from Tahir , chipped uppishly and over the bowler for a single Sohail Khan , right handed bat , comes to the crease 42.1 Tahir to Riaz , out Lbw ! ! A first-ball duck for Riaz. This was pushed through by Tahir , Riaz got down on his knees as he looked to sweep , misses and is struck on the pads , the impact was just around off and it was going on to hit the off-stump. The umpire did n't think a lot before raising his finger , Riaz was happy to go as well , but Misbah asked him to review it. He did so , and it was in vain. Riaz lbw b Tahir 0 ( 1 ) Tahir to Riaz , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Riaz has been given out LBW. He wants a review. Has Tahir got his first wicket ? Not a no-ball , this was the straighter one , slid underneath Riaz 's attempted sweep and struck him very low on the pads. No bat on that , Snicko confirms it. The impact looks to be around off , does n't look too good for Riaz. Umpire 's call , and Riaz will have to walk back 41.6 Steyn to Misbah , no run , short of a length and on the stumps , Misbah shuffles across and pushes it towards the on-side 41.5 Steyn to Misbah , no run , good short ball from Steyn , Misbah had no where to go , pushes his bat in front and blocks it Wahab Riaz , right handed bat , comes to the crease 41.4 Steyn to Afridi , out Caught by Duminy ! ! That 's a huge wicket at this stage for South Africa. This was banged in short by Steyn as Afridi backed away , he was cramped for room as he went for the pull , gets it very high on the bat. Duminy runs across to his left from deep square leg , keeps his eyes on the ball and completes a smart catch. Steyn wins this battle over Afridi. It 's all onto Misbah now. Afridi c Duminy b Steyn 22 ( 15 ) [ 4s-1 6s-2 ] Steyn to Afridi , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 41.3 Steyn to Afridi , SIX , that 's a massive blow from Afridi , length ball from Steyn , Afridi made room and slugged it across the line , gets it off the bottom of the bat , but has enough to sail over the ropes , he registers 8000 ODI runs for Pakistan 41.2 Steyn to Misbah , 1 run , Steyn goes short as Misbah backed away , dabbed with an open face and towards third man 41.1 Steyn to Misbah , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and on Misbah 's pads , worked away behind square on the on-side for a couple of runs 40.6 Kyle Abbott to Afridi , no run , much better from Abbott , offers a low full-toss and just outside off , Afridi drives hard and gets an inside edge towards mid-on 40.5 Kyle Abbott to Afridi , no run , Abbott shortens his length as Afridi backed away once again , the ball is too quick onto the batsman , mistimed drive towards extra cover 40.4 Kyle Abbott to Afridi , FOUR , that 's nicely struck ! Length ball and just outside off , Afridi backs away , gives himself room and slaps it over extra cover , beats the fielder in the deep 40.3 Kyle Abbott to Misbah , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Misbah dabs it towards point , Rossouw gets a bad bounce and allows the ball to go through 40.2 Kyle Abbott to Afridi , 1 run , full and on Afridi 's pads , flicked away towards mid-wicket for a single Two bowlers can bowl a maximum of 10 overs , three can bowl nine each. . Welcome back.. it 's sunny and looks like we might have seen the last of rain for today. At least , the weather bulletin promised that. . 17 : 40 Local Time , 04 : 40 GMT , 10 : 10 IST : Ok , we have good news. Rain has stopped and play will resume at 6 : 00 PM local time. It will be a 47-overs-a-side game. 10 minutes innings break.. South Africa will be chasing a D/L adjusted score . 17 : 35 Local Time , 04 : 35 GMT , 10 : 05 IST : If Pakistan do n't bat again , here are the winning scores for RSA , according to D/L calculations. 240 from 40 overs. 204 from 30 overs and 157 from 20 overs . 16 : 28 Local Time , 04 : 28 GMT , 09 : 58 IST : The rain has stopped and the covers are coming off. We should have play underway shortly.. Scratch that.. it has started to rain again . 17 : 15 Local Time , 04 : 15 GMT , 09 : 45 IST : Our man , Jamie Alter , does n't have anything promising to report. Here 's what he says : " More sheets of rain. This will be the format today , I fear. You can see the rain coming from the distance , it blows across the ground , then another round comes. " 17 : 10 Local Time , 04 : 10 GMT , 09 : 40 IST : The rain has got heavier and the players are off. More and more umbrellas go up in the stands. This looks pretty heavy. The pitch has been covered. We might have a pretty long delay , by the look of it. Will we lose overs ? By the way , Pakistan scored 29/1 in the batting PP 40.1 Kyle Abbott to Misbah , 1 run , back of a length and well outside off , steered away towards third man for a single Misbah is the second leading run-scorer so far in the tournament. He needs 9 more runs to go past Gayle , who has 279 runs 39.6 Steyn to Afridi , no run , that 's pretty rare from Afridi , this was short and angled away from off , Afridi drops his wrists and sways away from the line 39.5 Steyn to Afridi , no run , the bumper from Steyn , Afridi ducks underneath it and lets it go 39.4 Steyn to Misbah , 1 run , 42nd ODI fifty for Misbah , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed away towards backward point for a single 39.3 Steyn to Misbah , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Misbah shuffles across and defends it 39.2 Steyn to Afridi , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on middle , Afridi was backing away , closed the face of the bat and gets a thick leading edge towards third man A slip is in place 39.1 Steyn to Misbah , 1 run , length ball and on Misbah 's pads , flicked away towards long leg for a single Dale Steyn [ 6.0-2-17-0 ] is back into the attack 38.6 Kyle Abbott to Misbah , 1 run , short of a length and on the stumps , worked win front of square on the on-side for a single 38.5 Kyle Abbott to Misbah , FOUR , that 's the effect of short boundaries here , that side is just 49 metres long , width on offer from Abbott , cracked away square on the off-side. Tahir had just a few yards to run to his right , but the ball beats him to the fence 38.4 Kyle Abbott to Afridi , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Afridi slugs it away towards mid-wicket , just a single 38.3 Kyle Abbott to Afridi , 2 runs , Afridi backs away to a length delivery and clubs it wide of long-on. AB runs across to his right , slides and pulls the ball back , keeeps the batsmen down to a couple 38.2 Kyle Abbott to Misbah , 1 run , fuller length delivery and angling into Misbah , he prods across and works it past mid-wicket for a single 38.1 Kyle Abbott to Misbah , no run , on a good length and just outside off , dabbed with an open face and towards backward point Kyle Abbott [ 7.0-0-29-2 ] is back into the attack 37.6 Tahir to Afridi , no run , pushed through flatter and following Afridi as he backed away , he was looking to pull it over mid-wicket , misses and is struck on the body 37.5 Tahir to Afridi , SIX , that 's meaty from Afridi , the straight boundaries are very short here , backs away , plays with the spin and lofts it high and over long-off for a maximum 37.4 Tahir to Misbah , 1 run , pushed through by Tahir , nudged away past square leg for a single 37.3 Tahir to Misbah , no run , very full and on off , Misbah pushes it towards the on-side It has started to drizzle once again. . 37.2 Tahir to Afridi , 1 run , flighted delivery and on Afridi 's pads , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a single 37.1 Tahir to Misbah , 1 run , low full-toss from Tahir , swept away behind square on the on-side for a single The players are out in the middle.. 13 overs to go. How will Afridi respond. We are in the batting PP as well South Africa 's bowling has been a contrast. AB + Duminy have gone for 77 runs from their 9 overs while the remaining 28 overs has seen Pakistan score just 98 runs . 16 : 45 Local Time , 03 : 45 GMT , 09 : 15 IST : Some good news , folks. The rain has stopped for now and the covers are coming off. Play will resume at 17 : 00. No overs have been lost but the break has been reduced to 30 minutes. . 16 : 35 Local Time , 03 : 35 GMT , 09 : 05 IST : It has started to rain properly now. It 's quite a heavy shower. Not the best piece of news you would like to hear. We might have a longer delay. . It has started to rain at Eden Park. The groundstaff were ready with the covers and the umpires say it 's time for the players to walk off. Rain has stopped play. Just at the wrong time for Pakistan , they have just lost a wicket and any D/L calculation might go against them. It 's not raining all that heavily , the South African players are huddled together near the boundary rope. For now , the pitch has been covered. Some very dark clouds over the stadium , but the encouraging thing is that the winds are pretty strong. Hopefully , it will take the rain away with it . Imran Tahir [ 7.0-1-27-0 ] is back into the attack 36.6 M Morkel to Afridi , no run , short and wide from Morkel , Afridi throws the kitchen sink at that and is beaten Shahid Afridi , right handed bat , comes to the crease 36.5 M Morkel to U Akmal , out Caught by de Villiers ! ! Akmal has thrown his wicket here ! The extra bounce from Morkel has accounted for him. Another short ball from Morkel , Akmal was shaping for the pull , the extra bounce is his undoing , he ca n't control the shot , gets a bit of a top-edge. The ball went flying towards mid-wicket. AB seemed to have lost it for a while , but clasps it around his chest even as he tumbled backwards. Akmal takes a long time to walk back to the hut. U Akmal c de Villiers b M Morkel 13 ( 20 ) [ 4s-2 ] M Morkel to U Akmal , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 36.4 M Morkel to U Akmal , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Akmal gets across and defends it 36.3 M Morkel to U Akmal , no run , just about safe ! Steep bounce for Morkel , from a back of a length delivery , Akmal was hopping across in defence , the ball lobs off the shoulder of the bat. Rossouw from point gets across and puts in the dive , but the ball drops just in front of him 36.2 M Morkel to U Akmal , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Akmal is rooted to his crease as he slashes and misses 36.1 M Morkel to Misbah , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , Misbah chops in the gap between gully and point , just a single to third man Morne Morkel [ 7.0-0-21-0 ] is back into the attack If in case , South Africa lose this game , de Villiers may look back at the period when he introduced part-timers into the attack after the dismissal of Ahmed Shehzad and Sarfraz Ahmed took advantage of it by scoring a flurry of boundaries. It is always a risk to go in with four regular bowlers , especially with short boundaries coming into play . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the last 17 overs : Once the openers were dismissed , Younis Khan and Misbah-ul-Haq looked to rotate the strike and keep the scorecard moving. With Younis and Misbah constructing a fine partnership , it felt like it will give the chance for the likes of Umar Akmal , Shahid Afridi and Wahab Riaz to target the short boundaries with freedom. But AB de Villiers pulled a rabbit out of the hat by taking the wicket of Younis with his military medium pace. Younis would be disappointed with that soft dismissal. Kyle Abbott then sent Sohaib Maqsood back to the pavilion. Key bowlers , Morne Morkel and Dale Steyn have been very economical for South Africa . Drinks are on the field now 35.6 Steyn to Misbah , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Misbah shuffles across and drops it in front of mid-wicket , hares across for a quick single 35.5 Steyn to U Akmal , 1 run , length ball and on Akmal 's pads , clipped away behind square on the on-side for a single 35.4 Steyn to U Akmal , no run , that 's a proper bumper from Steyn , Akmal ducks underneath it 35.3 Steyn to U Akmal , FOUR , that 's a cracking shot from Akmal , fraction too short and just outside off , Akmal is quick to pick up the length , rocks back and pulls it over mid-wicket for a boundary 35.2 Steyn to U Akmal , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Akmal stays behind the line and punches it towards cover-point The wind is picking up , some dark clouds are hovering over the stadium , rain was forecast around this time. . 35.1 Steyn to Misbah , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Misbah moves across and nudges it past square leg for a single Dale Steyn [ 5.0-2-10-0 ] is back into the attack Time for the batting PP 34.6 Kyle Abbott to Misbah , 1 run , the slower ball from Abbott , Misbah tucks it in front of mid-wicket for a single 34.5 Kyle Abbott to Misbah , no run , on a good length and just outside off , dabbed in front of point , he wants a single but decides against it 34.4 Kyle Abbott to Misbah , no run , Abbott keeps it full and just outside off , driven straight to mid-off 34.3 Kyle Abbott to U Akmal , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on Akmal 's pads , clipped away in front of square on the on-side for a single 34.2 Kyle Abbott to U Akmal , no run , full and just outside off , Akmal presents the full face of the bat and drives it towards mid-off 34.1 Kyle Abbott to U Akmal , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover Kyle Abbott [ 6.0-0-27-2 ] is back into the attack 33.6 Tahir to Misbah , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , Misbah gets well forward and blocks it 33.5 Tahir to U Akmal , 1 run , the wrong 'un from Tahir , Akmal rocks back and pulls it towards deep mid-wicket. JPD fumbles , but they decide not to take on his arm 33.4 Tahir to U Akmal , no run , slower and just outside off , Akmal lunges forward and blocks 33.3 Tahir to U Akmal , no run , low full toss and on off , driven towards mid-wicket 33.2 Tahir to U Akmal , no run , the skidder from Tahir , flatter and quicker , the line was around leg-stump , Akmal was shaping for the pull , gets an inside edge onto the pads 33.1 Tahir to U Akmal , no run , flighted and on Akmal 's pads , turned towards short fine Imran Tahir [ 6.0-1-26-0 ] is back into the attack 32.6 de Villiers to U Akmal , 1 run , fraction short and on the stumps , pulled away wide of long-on , the fielder gets across quickly and keeps them down to a single 32.5 de Villiers to Misbah , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Misbah plays it with soft hands and drops it in front of cover , calls Akmal across for a quick single 32.4 de Villiers to U Akmal , 1 run , full and on the pads , clipped away past square leg for a single 32.3 de Villiers to U Akmal , FOUR , that 's nicely done by Akmal , tad fuller and on the stumps , Akmal presses forward and whips it over mid-wicket , races away to the fence in a jiffy 32.2 de Villiers to U Akmal , no run , back of a length and just outside off , punched to the right of extra cover. Rossouw puts in a diving stop 32.1 de Villiers to Misbah , 1 run , full and on the stumps , flicked away in front of square on the on-side for a single Umar Akmal , right handed bat , comes to the crease 31.6 Kyle Abbott to Maqsood , out Caught by Rossouw ! ! That 's as soft as it gets ! This was short and wide from Abbott , was there for the cut , perhaps a tad extra bounce. Maqsood could n't control the shot , hits it in the air and straight to Rossouw at point. South Africa are chipping away at one end. Second wicket for Abbott. Maqsood c Rossouw b Kyle Abbott 8 ( 16 ) [ 4s-1 ] Kyle Abbott to Maqsood , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Soft dismissal for Maqsood 31.5 Kyle Abbott to Misbah , 1 run , Abbott keeps it full and just outside off , Misbah was looking to go over mid-off , the bat turned in his hands and he ends up slicing it over point for a single 31.4 Kyle Abbott to Misbah , 2 runs , back of a length and well outside off , Misbah brings his bat down with an angle and dabs it behind square on the off-side , comes back for the second run 31.3 Kyle Abbott to Misbah , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Misbah shuffles across and defends it towards mid-on 31.2 Kyle Abbott to Misbah , no run , Abbott keeps it full and in that channel outside off , another easy leave for the batsman 31.1 Kyle Abbott to Misbah , no run , fuller length delivery and holding its line outside off , left alone 30.6 de Villiers to Misbah , 1 run , full and wide from AB , Misbah creams it uppishly and in the gap between cover and point , just a single to Amla at deep cover 30.5 de Villiers to Misbah , no run , tad fuller and nipping away from outside off , Misbah is slightly squared up , manages to defend it to the left of cover 30.4 de Villiers to Misbah , no run , on a good length and just outside off , dabbed straight to the fielder at backward point 30.3 de Villiers to Misbah , no run , much better from AB , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , Misbah plays away from his body and misses 30.2 de Villiers to Misbah , FOUR , another long hop from AB , Misbah stays back and hacks it past the bowler , no chance at stopping those 30.2 de Villiers to Misbah , wide , AB goes full and well outside off , called as a wide 30.1 de Villiers to Misbah , no run , full and on the stumps , whipped straight to the fielder at square leg 29.6 Kyle Abbott to Maqsood , no run , full and on the stumps , Maqsood flicks it to the left of mid-on , Miller gets across quickly and prevents the single 29.5 Kyle Abbott to Maqsood , no run , that 's loose from Maqsood , plays at one that seamed away off the deck , it was well outside off. Maqsood feels for it and is beaten 29.4 Kyle Abbott to Maqsood , no run , back of a length and just outside off , steered away straight to backward point 29.3 Kyle Abbott to Maqsood , no run , the bumper from Abbott as Maqsood came down the track , he ducks underneath it and lets it go 29.2 Kyle Abbott to Misbah , 1 run , full and on the stumps , Misbah shuffles across and works it to the right of mid-wicket for a single 29.1 Kyle Abbott to Maqsood , 1 run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Maqsood pushes forward and gets an outside edge towards third man Kyle Abbott [ 4.0-0-22-1 ] is back into the attack 28.6 de Villiers to Misbah , FOUR , too short from AB , he 's bowled far too many long hops in this spell , Misbah rocks back on the pull and deposits it wide of long-on , one bounce and into the fence 28.5 de Villiers to Misbah , no run , tad fuller and on Misbah 's pads , he prods across and turns it towards square leg 28.4 de Villiers to Maqsood , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , Maqsood stands tall and punches it square past point for a single 28.3 de Villiers to Maqsood , no run , fraction shorter and on off , punched back towards the bowler 28.2 de Villiers to Maqsood , no run , flicked away with an angled bat and straight towards mid-wicket 28.1 de Villiers to Misbah , 1 run , length ball and on Misbah 's pads , clipped away behind square on the on-side for a single 27.6 M Morkel to Maqsood , no run , lovely bowling from Morkel , he 's getting the ball to curve away late , on a full length and just outside off , Maqsood is drawn into the drive and misses 27.5 M Morkel to Maqsood , no run , aborted appeal for a caught behind , but only Morkel and de Kock looked interested , this was short and just outside off , Maqsood went for the pull and missed. Nothing registered on the Snicko as well 27.4 M Morkel to Maqsood , FOUR , much better from Maqsood , pitched up and just outside off , Maqsood presents the full face of the bat and punches it back past the bowler , the timing is sweet and the ball races away to the fence in a hurry 27.3 M Morkel to Maqsood , no run , that 's a cracker from Morkel , opened up Maqsood completely , this was pitched up and nipped away a fraction , Maqsood was lured forward , gets squared up in the process and is beaten on the outside edge 27.2 M Morkel to Maqsood , 2 runs , on a good length and just outside off , Maqsood presents the full face of the bat and punches it back towards the bowler. Morkel got a hand onto it , Steyn gives the chase from mid-on and hauls the ball back in 27.1 M Morkel to Misbah , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , steered away towards third man for a single 26.6 de Villiers to Maqsood , no run , tad fuller and on off , Maqsood goes hard on the drive and gets an inside edge towards short mid-wicket 26.5 de Villiers to Maqsood , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Maqsood prods across and punches it towards the on-side Sohaib Maqsood , right handed bat , comes to the crease 26.4 de Villiers to Younis Khan , out Caught by Rossouw ! ! AB has struck ! This is a bonus wicket for South Africa. This was pitched up on a length and held its line outside off , Younis was looking to play it towards the on-side , the ball looked like it stopped on him a touch , he was early into the shot and scooped it straight to Rossouw at cover , off the leading edge. The partnership has been broken , Younis was looking in splendid touch , but has to walk back to the hut. Younis Khan c Rossouw b de Villiers 37 ( 44 ) [ 4s-4 ] de Villiers to Younis Khan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 26.3 de Villiers to Misbah , 1 run , another long-hop from AB , Misbah shuffles across and pulls it behind square , Morne puts in the dive and saves some runs 26.2 de Villiers to Younis Khan , 1 run , length ball and on the stumps , Younis shuffles across and clips it to the left of square leg 26.1 de Villiers to Misbah , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , steered away towards third man for a single 25.6 M Morkel to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Younis stands tall and punches it straight to cover 25.5 M Morkel to Younis Khan , no run , tad fuller and shaping away late , Younis was slightly opened up , ends up pushing it towards cover 25.4 M Morkel to Misbah , 1 run , short of a length and angling into Misbah 's hips , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single 25.3 M Morkel to Younis Khan , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed away towards third man for a single 25.2 M Morkel to Misbah , 1 run , back of a length and on Misbah 's body , he gets an inside edge on the clip , the ball stops besides the pitch. He said NO but Younis Khan was adamant for a quick single , they get it with ease 25.1 M Morkel to Misbah , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Misbah presses across and blocks 24.6 de Villiers to Younis Khan , FOUR , expensive over from AB , drops this one way too short and just outside off , Younis rocks back and heaves it over mid-wicket , beats the fielder getting across from the deep , another expensive over from AB 24.5 de Villiers to Misbah , 1 run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , driven down towards long-off for a single 24.4 de Villiers to Misbah , FOUR , just over backward square leg , a leg stump half-volley from AB , Misbah was looking to flick , the bat turned at the last moment and he ends up chipping it towards backward square leg , just about evaded Tahir at backward square leg 24.3 de Villiers to Younis Khan , 1 run , full and on Younis ' pads , flicked away in front of square on the on-side for a single 24.2 de Villiers to Misbah , 1 run , slightly short and on the stumps , pulled away towards deep mid-wicket , goes to the fielder on the bounce 24.1 de Villiers to Misbah , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Misbah looks to cut and misses AB de Villiers [ 1.0-0-9-0 ] is back into the attack AB is back for another trundle. . 23.6 M Morkel to Younis Khan , no run , short and wide from Morkel , Younis goes hard on the cut and mistimes it towards cover-point 23.5 M Morkel to Misbah , leg byes , 1 run , Misbah shuffles a long way on the flick , Misbah digs it short and on the stumps , the ball rolls away off the thigh pad 23.4 M Morkel to Younis Khan , 1 run , back of a length and well outside off , Younis rides with the bounce and dabs it away towards third man 23.3 M Morkel to Misbah , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Misbah rides with the bounce and steers it to the right of second slip , Amla gets a hand onto it and deflects it away towards short third man 23.2 M Morkel to Misbah , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Misbah shuffles across and defends it towards mid-on 23.1 M Morkel to Younis Khan , 1 run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Younis plays with an open face and guides it behind square on the off-side for a single 22.6 Tahir to Misbah , no run , Misbah is happy to block out an entire over , once again gets a big stride forward and defends it with soft hands 22.5 Tahir to Misbah , no run , this one is drifted on middle , Misbah prods forward and blocks 22.4 Tahir to Misbah , no run , tossed up and drifting onto Misbah 's pads , turned straight to the fielder at square leg 22.3 Tahir to Misbah , no run , slower and on off , Misbah lunges forward and blocks 22.2 Tahir to Misbah , no run , flighted and on off , Misbah presses forward and blocks 22.1 Tahir to Misbah , no run , Tahir tosses one on middle , Misbah lunges forward and gets an inside edge back towards the bowler 21.6 M Morkel to Misbah , 1 run , tad fuller and just outside off , tucked away behind square on the on-side. Duminy is quick onto the ball and keeps them down to a single 21.5 M Morkel to Misbah , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Misbah plays with an angled bat , gets an inside edge back towards the bowler 21.4 M Morkel to Misbah , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Misbah drops it in front of cover-point , wants a single but is sent back 21.3 M Morkel to Misbah , no run , the bumper from Morkel , Misbah ducks under it and lets it go 21.2 M Morkel to Misbah , no run , Morkel shortens his length and gets it to hold its line outside off , Misbah covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 21.1 M Morkel to Misbah , no run , short of a length and on the stumps , Misbah presses across and looks to defend it towards the on-side , gets struck high on the thigh pad Morne Morkel [ 3.0-0-7-0 ] is back into the attack 20.6 Tahir to Misbah , 1 run , more air on this one , turns out to be a full-toss , Misbah gets well forward and clips it past mid-wicket for a single 20.5 Tahir to Misbah , no run , Tahir drifts one on the middle stump line , Misbah plays with the spin and turns it towards Morne at square leg 20.4 Tahir to Misbah , no run , tossed up and on off , Misbah gets well forward and defends it towards the on-side 20.3 Tahir to Younis Khan , leg byes , 1 run , this was tossed up and around middle , Misbah was looking to nudge it towards the on-side , misses and the ball rolls towards square leg off the pads 20.2 Tahir to Misbah , 1 run , slower and wider from Tahir , driven past the diving extra cover fielder , just a single to long-off 20.1 Tahir to Misbah , no run , flighted and just outside off , Misbah makes room and jabs it towards cover-point Imran Tahir [ 4.0-0-24-0 ] is back into the attack Tahir is back into the attack. . 19.6 Steyn to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Younis hops across and defends it towards backward point The slip moves across to short mid-wicket 19.5 Steyn to Misbah , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Misbah pushes at that , gets a thick edge towards third man for a single 19.5 Steyn to Misbah , wide , the bumper from Steyn , went flying across Misbah , wide called for height 19.4 Steyn to Misbah , no run , once again in that channel outside off , Misbah does n't need to play at those , left alone 19.3 Steyn to Misbah , no run , Steyn keeps it full and in that channel outside off , Misbah shuffles across and lets it go 19.2 Steyn to Younis Khan , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Younis plays with an open face and guides it down towards third man Just one slip in place 19.1 Steyn to Younis Khan , no run , fuller length delivery and bowled with a cross-seam position , Younis covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go Sarfraz , who replaced the out of form Nasir Jamshed in the team , showed his class by shuffling across the stumps to flick Kyle Abbott for a four. Sarfraz was also busy at the crease , as he looked to rotate the strike at every given opportunity. He then took a heavy toll off JP Duminy 's bowling by thwacking him for three sumptuous sixes in a single over , but unfortunately he was run out on the back of a fine throw by David Miller. On the other hand , Sarfraz 's opening partner , Ahmed Shehzad , too looked in fine touch , especially when he played with a straight bat. However , he was dismissed on the back of a superb catch taken by Steyn. With athletic strides , he ran back from mid-on and dived full stretch to take the catch with both hands. Once Shehzad was dismissed , Younis Khan , who has been in poor form in recent times , started on a good note by essaying a few boundaries. Interestingly , It has to be remembered that the straight boundaries are just 65 metres and the square boundaries around 60 metres at Eden Park . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the first 19 overs : Dale Steyn zipped through the crease quickly and troubled Pakistan 's opening batsmen by bowling outswingers. In fact , he beat Sarfraz Ahmed 's bat a couple of times. However , Pakistan 's openers showed measured judgment outside the off-stump and tried to play with soft hands most of the times . Drinks are on the field now 18.6 Duminy to Younis Khan , 1 run , on the off stump , Younis works it to long-on 18.5 Duminy to Younis Khan , FOUR , short and wide again , Younis goes on the back foot to cut , the ball goes off the toe end of the bat and beats Amla at backward point. 100 up for Pakistan 18.4 Duminy to Misbah , 1 run , short and wide outside off stump , Misbah cuts it to deep backward point 18.3 Duminy to Younis Khan , 1 run , down the leg-side , flicked to backward square leg Round the wicket 18.2 Duminy to Misbah , 1 run , flatter ball outside off stump , Misbah punches it square of the wicket on the off-side 18.2 Duminy to Misbah , 1 run , square of the wicket 18.1 Duminy to Younis Khan , 1 run , flighted delivery on the leg stump , Younis flicks it to square leg Jean-Paul Duminy [ 2.0-0-25-0 ] is back into the attack 17.6 Steyn to Misbah , no run , full and just swinging away outside off stump , Misbah looks to defend off the front foot but misses 17.5 Steyn to Misbah , no run , outswinger outside off stump , Misbah dabs it to the right of second slip 17.4 Steyn to Younis Khan , 1 run , fullish and outside off stump , Younis taps it to short-cover and takes off for another sharp run 17.3 Steyn to Younis Khan , no run , short and outside off stump , Younis sways out of the line 17.2 Steyn to Younis Khan , no run , full and swinging away outside off stump , Younis shoulders arms 17.1 Steyn to Misbah , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Misbah defends it to short-cover and takes a quick single Dale Steyn [ 3.0-2-5-0 ] is back into the attack 16.6 Tahir to Younis Khan , no run , spinning away outside off stump , Younis defends 16.5 Tahir to Misbah , 1 run , flighted delivery on the stumps , driven to long-on Misbah-ul-Haq , right handed bat , comes to the crease 16.4 Tahir to Sarfraz Ahmed , out Sarfraz Ahmed Run Out ! ! 1 run completed. Oh dear ! What have you done Sarfraz Ahmed ! Suicidal run-out and he ca n't believe what he 's done ! He is down on his knees , not wanting to move. Googly from Tahir , Sarfraz works it through backward square leg , there was never a second run in it , Sarfraz tries to reach his fifty and goes for the second , puts in the dive but the throw was too good from the deep. The on-field umpire did n't even want to refer the case to the TV umpire. Sarfraz was well short of his crease. Just when the partnership was blossoming , Sarfraz has thrown it away. Sarfraz Ahmed run out ( D Miller/de Kock ) 49 ( 49 ) [ 4s-5 6s-3 ] Tahir to Sarfraz Ahmed , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 16.3 Tahir to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , on the stumps , blocked 16.2 Tahir to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , flighted delivery outside off stump , Sarfraz drives it along the ground to deep cover 16.1 Tahir to Younis Khan , 1 run , googly on the leg stump , Younis glances it to short fine leg and gets Sarfraz back on strike 15.6 Duminy to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , opens the face of the bat and runs it down to short third man and looks for a run , but Younis is not keen 15.5 Duminy to Sarfraz Ahmed , SIX , tossed up from Duminy this time , Sarfraz races down the track and smashes it hard over deep mid-wicket. That 's the third six of the over 15.5 Duminy to Sarfraz Ahmed , wide , fires this down the leg-side , Sarfraz was just ball-watching on that occasion 15.4 Duminy to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , quicker through the air , Sarfraz tries to guide it down to third man but misses 15.3 Duminy to Sarfraz Ahmed , SIX , and again ! This time Duminy bowls this well outside off stump , but Sarfraz got to the pitch of the ball and he was able to drag it wide of long-on 15.2 Duminy to Sarfraz Ahmed , SIX , first six of the game ! Flighted delivery from Duminy , Sarfraz gets down the track and gets closer to the pitch of the ball , slogs it handsomely over deep mid-wicket 15.2 Duminy to Younis Khan , 2 wides , oops ! Bowls this down the leg-side and de Kock fumbles 15.1 Duminy to Younis Khan , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Younis defends it to short mid-wicket 14.6 Tahir to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , spinning away outside off stump , Sarfraz taps it to Amla at backward point 14.5 Tahir to Younis Khan , 1 run , googly again , knocked to backward square leg 14.4 Tahir to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , googly on the stumps , driven down to long-on 14.3 Tahir to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , good shot from Sarfraz. Goes deep in the crease and cuts the flatter ball between backward point and short third man. The ball races away to the boundary 14.2 Tahir to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , slower through the air and spinning away , defended well off the front foot 14.1 Tahir to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , very full , driven to the right of the bowler 13.6 Duminy to Younis Khan , no run , on the off stump , Younis mistimes the on-drive back to the bowler 13.5 Duminy to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , flatter in trajectory , Sarfraz taps it to point 13.4 Duminy to Younis Khan , 1 run , short and outside off stump , cut away to sweeper cover 13.3 Duminy to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , short enough to hang back and punch to long-on 13.2 Duminy to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , advances and drives the flighted delivery down to short mid-wicket 13.1 Duminy to Younis Khan , 1 run , spinning back in , punched down to long-on Jean-Paul Duminy , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 12.6 Tahir to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , sprays this googly down the leg-side , Sarfraz tickles it fine to fine leg and that spoils the over 12.5 Tahir to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , mix-up but all is well in the end. Shortish and outside off stump , punched to the right of extra-cover , Sarfraz takes off but stops in the middle , Younis Khan was halfway down the wicket but luckily for Pakistan , the throw went to the keeper 's end 12.4 Tahir to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , flighted delivery on the stumps , easily defended 12.3 Tahir to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , catch is the call , good effort by AB at short mid-wicket. Googly pulled uppishly , looked like the ball did n't carry to AB , who was diving to his left 12.2 Tahir to Younis Khan , 1 run , shortish but does n't bounce much , Younis manages to cut it to deep point 12.1 Tahir to Younis Khan , no run , very full , Younis keeps it out 11.6 de Villiers to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , de Villiers bowls a bumper , but it 's not good enough to trouble Sarfraz , who rocks back and pulls it behind square on the on-side 11.5 de Villiers to Younis Khan , 1 run , short of length delivery on the leg stump , Younis flicks it to square leg 11.4 de Villiers to Younis Khan , FOUR , short and wide outside off stump , Younis pulls it very straight and to the left of mid-on. Younis now has 1000 runs v South Africa in ODIs 11.3 de Villiers to Younis Khan , no run , short of length outside off stump , pushed to the left of the bowler 11.2 de Villiers to Younis Khan , no run , full and outside off stump , Younis drives it to cover 11.1 de Villiers to Younis Khan , no run , good length delivery just outside off stump , Younis defends off the front foot AB de Villiers , right-arm medium , comes into the attack Wow ! AB is bringing himself on . Our man , Jamie Alter , is at the ground and he 's surprised that this game has n't been sold-out. Plenty of empty seats , he says but also adds that there are plenty of green shirts around amongst the crowd , obviously supporting Pakistan 10.6 Tahir to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , short and outside off stump , Sarfraz cuts and picks out Amla at backward point 10.5 Tahir to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , googly on the leg stump , Sarfraz backs away and knocks it into the on-side 10.4 Tahir to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , deft touch ! Pace on offer from Tahir , Sarfraz allows the ball to come and easily guides it fine to the third man boundary 10.3 Tahir to Younis Khan , 1 run , driven uppishly and wide of the diving fielder at cover for a run 10.2 Tahir to Younis Khan , FOUR , short and Younis pulls in the air , it was n't too far away from the man at short mid-wicket , Faf runs to his right from long-on and gets to the ball but fumbles as he tumbles over 10.1 Tahir to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , Sarfraz opens the face of the bat and guides this flatter ball to short third man Imran Tahir , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 9.6 M Morkel to Younis Khan , no run , short and outside off stump , Younis drops his wrists and lets it go 9.5 M Morkel to Younis Khan , no run , oh he 's missed a length ball ! Younis plays a wild slog across the line , the ball bounces just over the off stump 9.5 M Morkel to Younis Khan , no ball , 2 runs , very full from Morne , oh he 's overstepped , Younis drives it to the left of mid-off , the fielder gives chase and saves two with a slide. That was a big no-ball and it 's a free-hit now 9.4 M Morkel to Younis Khan , no run , short from Morkel , Younis sways away 9.3 M Morkel to Younis Khan , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Younis tucks it to backward square leg 9.2 M Morkel to Younis Khan , no run , fullish and just outside off stump , Younis defends off the front foot 9.1 M Morkel to Younis Khan , 2 runs , flicks it to backward square leg , where the fielder fumbles to allow the extra run. Younis opens his account 8.6 Kyle Abbott to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , defended into the off-side 8.5 Kyle Abbott to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , full and just outside off stump , Sarfraz shuffles and is hurried a bit , but he manages to keep it out Younis Khan , right handed bat , comes to the crease 8.4 Kyle Abbott to Ahmed Shehzad , out Caught by Steyn ! ! In the airrrrr and that 's a stunner from Steyn. His teammates mob him. They know how difficult a catch it was. Outswinger on a good length from Abbott , Shehzad tries to flick , but gets it on the outside half of the bat , mid-on runs back and to his right , dives full length and grabs it with both hands. Good that the ball did n't come off after his elbows hit the ground. After taking the catch , Steyn had his arms aloft in joy. Brilliant bit of fielding indeed. Ahmed Shehzad c Steyn b Kyle Abbott 18 ( 30 ) [ 4s-4 ] Kyle Abbott to Ahmed Shehzad , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 8.3 Kyle Abbott to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , this time he plays the on-drive and mid-on had no chance. Fullish and just outside off stump , Shehzad plays the drive very straight just to the right of the non-striker and gets a boundary 8.2 Kyle Abbott to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , driven nicely off the front foot but straight to mid-off 8.1 Kyle Abbott to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full and outside off stump , Shehzad pushes it into the off-side 7.6 M Morkel to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Sarfraz dabs very late and plays it to second slip 7.5 M Morkel to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , gets behind the line of this short of length delivery and Sarfraz knocks it into the on-side 7.4 M Morkel to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Sarfraz defends off the back foot 7.3 M Morkel to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , pacy short ball at 141.1kph , Sarfraz sits under it 7.2 M Morkel to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , short of length delivery from Morkel , Sarfraz misses the flick and gets hit on the pad but it was going down the leg-side 7.1 M Morkel to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , good length delivery outside off stump , Shehzad gets a thickish edge that rolls to third man as he looks to play with an open face of the bat 6.6 Kyle Abbott to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , on the pads , easily worked away to fine leg and he 'll keep strike 6.5 Kyle Abbott to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , good shot from Shehzad. Just short of a length and outside off stump , Shehzad plays the pull shot to perfection and sends it over mid-wicket , the ball bounces just inside the rope 6.4 Kyle Abbott to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , length ball outside off stump , easily defended into the off-side 6.3 Kyle Abbott to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , good length delivery on the stumps , Shehzad defends it to mid-on 6.3 Kyle Abbott to Ahmed Shehzad , wide , fullish and down the leg-side , Shehzad misses the glance 6.2 Kyle Abbott to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , outswinger on a fuller length and outside off stump , left alone 6.1 Kyle Abbott to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Sarfraz tucks it towards backward square leg Kyle Abbott [ 2.0-0-11-0 ] is back into the attack 5.6 M Morkel to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short ball from Morne , Shehzad ducks under it 5.5 M Morkel to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of length delivery and wide outside off stump , Shehzad is not keen to play at those 5.4 M Morkel to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short and outside off stump , Shehzad lets it go. QdK had to jump high to grab the ball 5.3 M Morkel to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , dabs this short of length delivery very late and sends it towards gully , Faf dives to his right from second slip and stops the ball 5.2 M Morkel to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , on a length and outside off stump , Sarfraz is late on the dab , he chops it towards the slip cordon 5.1 M Morkel to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Sarfraz defends it into the off-side Morne Morkel , right-arm fast , comes into the attack Apparently , Vernon Philander injured himself in the warm-ups and that is why Abbott got another game. Philander was slated to play today . 4.6 Steyn to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Steyn ends the over with an outswinger , Shehzad shoulders arms 4.5 Steyn to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , covers the stumps and allows the length ball to go through 4.4 Steyn to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Shehzad is hurried for pace on the cut shot , the ball goes to point 4.3 Steyn to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , oh he almost dragged that back onto the stumps. Shehzad is very late to take the bat away as he tries to leave this good length delivery , the ball takes the inside edge and just goes past the off stump 4.2 Steyn to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , this time Sarfraz drives it to the left of AB de Villiers at cover and it 's an easy run 4.1 Steyn to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , fullish and just outside off stump , Sarfraz leans forward and defends it towards point and sets off , Ahmed Shehzad sends him back. There was never a run in it 3.6 Kyle Abbott to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a length and on the stumps , Shehzad defends 3.5 Kyle Abbott to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , this one swings back in from a length , Shehzad knocks it into the on-side 3.4 Kyle Abbott to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , much better from Abbott. Drags this length back slightly and bowls this wider as well , Shehzad , who was confident after hitting a boundary , feels for the ball away from the body and gets beaten 3.3 Kyle Abbott to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , good looking off-drive from Shehzad. Full and swinging away outside off stump , the length was too full on that occasion and Shehzad did n't miss out. Plays the drive to perfection and beats mid-off to his right 3.2 Kyle Abbott to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full and just outside off stump , Shehzad drives it back to the bowler , who gets down low to his right in his followthrough and stops the ball 3.1 Kyle Abbott to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , edged but there is no one at gully. Sarfraz walks forward and tries to drive the outswinger , gets a thick edge that rolls to third man 2.6 Steyn to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , makes him play with a good length delivery around the off stump , defended back to the bowler. Back-to-back maiden overs for Steyn 2.5 Steyn to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , good line and good length from Steyn. Fullish and just outside off stump , the outswinger again , Shehzad covers the off stump and leaves well 2.4 Steyn to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , teasing outswinger on a fuller length from Steyn , Shehzad lets it go 2.3 Steyn to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , almost squared up again by the late away movement , Shehzad taps it towards point 2.2 Steyn to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , outside edge but does n't carry to third slip. Shehzad is opened up by this outswinger , luckily for him , he played that with soft hands 2.1 Steyn to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , good length delivery just outside off stump , Shehzad defended to cover 1.6 Kyle Abbott to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , huge shout for LBW , but very hard for the umpire to give Sarfraz that far ahead of the stumps. He tries to flick this length ball and gets hit in line , the impact was around middle , but height was always going to be an issue as it hit him on the knee-roll. In fact Sarfraz was shuffling a long way across the stumps 1.5 Kyle Abbott to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , negates a bit of swing by walking forward towards the bowler , this in an inswinger from Abbott and Sarfraz flicks it wide of mid-on for a couple of runs 1.4 Kyle Abbott to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , full and just swinging away outside off stump , Sarfraz drives it gently towards cover 1.3 Kyle Abbott to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Sarfraz guides it to the left of backward point and looks for a run , but Ahmed Shehzad sends him back and sensibly so 1.2 Kyle Abbott to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , positive stride forward from Sarfraz and that shows he 's confident. Fullish and just outside off stump , Sarfraz shuffles across the stumps and flicks it along the ground through square leg. First runs off the bat 1.1 Kyle Abbott to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , starts off with a gentle outswinger on a good length , Sarfraz leans forward and defends well Kyle Abbott , right-arm medium , comes into the attack Two slips for Abbott 0.6 Steyn to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , straightish length ball on the leg stump , Shehzad flicks it to the left of mid-wicket , where Miller makes a good save , Sarfraz was backing up too far and he had to put in the dive to make his ground as Miller had a shy at the bowler 's end. A direct-hit would have been interesting 0.5 Steyn to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , hint of shape away from the right-hander on this length ball , Shehzad defends it towards backward point Three slips in place now . 0.4 Steyn to Sarfraz Ahmed , leg byes , 1 run , Steyn opts for the inswinger this time and bowls a length ball down the leg-side , Ahmed misses the flick it rolls off the thigh pad to backward square leg. Pakistan open their account 0.3 Steyn to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , beaten ! Nice outswinger on a fuller length , Sarfraz pokes away from the body without feet movement and the ball almost takes the outside edge 0.2 Steyn to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , slightly drags his length back on this occasion , bit of outswing on offer there , Sarfraz dabs it into the off-side 0.1 Steyn to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , what a start from Dale Steyn. Full and swinging away just outside off stump , Sarfraz had to play at it , he tried to defend , but the swing took it away from him and beat the bat Sarfraz Ahmed and Ahmed Shehzad are at the crease. Sarfraz Ahmed is on strike. Steyn will open the attack Two slips in place . The Pakistani openers , Sarfraz and Shehzad , are striding out to the middle and it 's good to see the sun out at the moment . The players are walking out for the anthems . Pitch Report : " The sun is out now. There might be some rain later on. It looks a magnificent pitch , it was used the last week for the New Zealand-Australia game. It 's a small ground and it 's hard to defend , " reckons Ian Botham . Teams : Pakistan ( Playing XI ) : Sarfraz Ahmed ( w ) , Ahmed Shehzad , Younis Khan , Misbah-ul-Haq ( c ) , Sohaib Maqsood , Umar Akmal , Shahid Afridi , Wahab Riaz , Sohail Khan , Rahat Ali , Mohammad Irfan South Africa ( Playing XI ) : Hashim Amla , Quinton de Kock ( w ) , Faf du Plessis , AB de Villiers ( c ) , Rilee Rossouw , David Miller , Jean-Paul Duminy , Dale Steyn , Kyle Abbott , Morne Morkel , Imran Tahir South Africa have won the toss and have opted to field Misbah : " I think this is how we have to go. We have to win this game , that 's one thinking we have to do throughout the game. That 's the only chance we have got. Obviously they are the favourites , they are playing well , but I think we have a good record against them and hopefully we can just put a good show. We need a good start. That should be the strategy and then just capitalise. We will not mind batting first because our bowling is really in good form. It 's now a challenge for the batters to give them a good total. Unfortunately Haris Sohail is not fit , so we 've got Younis Khan back and Sarfraz Ahmed is playing instead of Nasir Jamshed. " AB de Villiers : " It 's a difficult question. I wo n't say this is the right time yet ( asked if they are peaking just at the right time ) . Obviously , the finals of the World Cup will be the right time and hopefully we do get there. It 's a big game for us and we are hoping to play some good cricket today. Let 's hope so ( asked if South Africa is the real deal in this tournament ) . It certainly feels that way. We 've got a nice team spirit going. Guys really care for each other and enjoy each others successes. We are just looking to play good cricket today and once again to make the people back home proud. We 'll bowl first today. It 's one of those cricket grounds where you feel you can get on top of a batting unit early on. We have n't seen this wicket yet. It feels a little bit soft underneath and hopefully our seam bowlers can make some inroads early on. JP Duminy is ready to go again , Farhaan Behardien is missing out today. " It 's toss time folks . The toss is n't too far away. Conditions are overcast out there. It wo n't be a surprise if captains opt to bowl. Remember , the boundaries are quite short at the Eden Park. In case South Africa are batting first and their batsmen get in , we could well see 400 again today if we get the full 50 overs in . Meanwhile , the good news for the Proteas is that JP Duminy and Vernon Philander have recovered from injuries and have been declared fit for this game. So who makes way for them ? Do they drop out-of-form Quinton de Kock and ask AB de Villiers to keep wickets ? Do they leave Kyle Abbott/Rilee Rossouw out ? Both have done well so far in the tournament. Is Farhaan Behardien going to be left out ? Well , they have a lot of selection issues and there sure will be some changes in the line-up today . " I feel if we make it to the final , I 'm due to have a good game somewhere in there. I 'm almost halfway there. I 've got a couple more to go before a good one is just around the corner. I hope it 's coming out okay , and hopefully it just gets better. I do n't think I 've bowled too badly. I 've said it before many times that I do n't care if I take one wicket or five wickets. Obviously , I 'd love to take five because every game that I play , everyone wants to , " Steyn added . South Africa would be pleased to see Dale Steyn show glimpses of returning to form in the last game against Ireland as he picked up a wicket in his first spell for the first time in the tournament. Talking ahead of the match , Steyn said , " I think it 's gradually just gotten better. I have n't taken the wickets that I want to take , but that 's what happens in the World Cup. There are only ten wickets to take , and when Imran [ Tahir ] takes five or [ Kyle ] Abbott takes four , there is not much for the other bowlers to take. So you have to do what you have to do in order for your team to win. I 'm happy with that. " Moving on , South Africa have gained a lot of momentum post their loss to India at the MCG. In fact , batting first , they made history by becoming the first team to score 400 runs in successive games in ODI cricket. While AB de Villiers was the star performer against West Indies in one of those games , against West Indies , Hashim Amla stole the show against Ireland. Amla , who became the fastest to record 20 hundreds in ODIs , scored 159 as South Africa scored 411 in their 50 overs. Kyle Abbott then was the pick of the bowlers , picking up 4 wickets. He has made his case stronger for a regular place in the side with his impressive show . The problem starts right at the top for Pakistan. 11 , 0 , 1 , 10 - these are the opening partnerships so far in the tournament. Nasir Jamshed 's highest score in three games has been 4. To make matters worse , his fielding has not been great either. So it wo n't come as a surprise if Pakistan axe Jamshed and change their opening combination today. In fact , former captains Javed Miandad and Ramiz Raja have called for skipper Misbah-ul-Haq to think out of the box. When asked what he thinks of former captains ' advice , Misbah quipped : " Out of the box ? Should we open with Irfan ? " " He ( Sarfraz Ahmed ) has opened the innings in the United Arab Emirates , " said Misbah of last year 's one-day series with Australia and New Zealand. " But here the conditions are different. " Speaking after the match against UAE , coach Waqar Younis had this to say. " Yes , we know we should have bowled them out for under 200 to boost our net run-rate , but it did n't happen. A bit disappointed about that , but as I said we got a win and now need to focus on South Africa , especially , and Ireland. Of course , this victory will definitely give us a boost , at least , a positive thinking towards the next two games. But I still feel that we need to win against a bigger opponent to really tell the world that we 're around. Two victories , fair enough. We are sneaking in , so we 're just looking to play a better cricket , but , yeah , we need to beat a bigger opponent. " After two heavy defeats at the hands of India and West Indies , Pakistan registered back-to-back wins over Zimbabwe and UAE. Although their victory over Zimbabwe was not convincing , their performance against UAE would give the team a lot of confidence. Having been asked to bat first , fifties from Ahmed Shehzad , Haris Sohail and captain Misbah-ul-Haq helped them post over 300 on the board. Although , the bowlers restricted UAE to 210 , the fact that they did not manage to bowl them out would be concerning them . We have a very good contest on our hands. It 's Pakistan , who are taking on the mighty South Africans at the Eden Park in this Pool B encounter. First things first ! The forecast is not all that great as a few showers are predicted later in the evening. So this means that the overcast and moist conditions will suit the fast bowlers. Are Pakistan 's batsmen ready to take on a world-class bowling line-up that includes the likes of Dale Steyn and Morne Morkel ? It is going to be key to their success today as the batsmen will have to deliver quality goods for Pakistan to pose a stiff challenge . Preview by Jamie Alter New day , same approach , same challenges. Pakistan are alive in the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup , recovering from big losses to India and West Indies by winning over Zimbabwe and UAE , but their need-to-win scenario now gets a lot tougher. On Saturday , they will face South Africa at the notoriously batsman-friendly Eden Park , fully aware of the power packed into AB de Villiers ' unit and that they need to beat them to remain in contention for the quarter-finals . " Everybody is determined. We all know that this is an important game if we really want to progress in this World Cup. We 're really focused , determined , and looking forward for this game , " Pakistan captain Misbah-Ul-Haqon said on the eve of the game . Pakistan 's challenge remains , firstly , to stop South Africa from putting up another huge total. Should they bat first , Pakistan will need their batsmen to really step up against an attack comprising Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel , Kyle Abbott , Imran Tahir and the fit-again Vernon Philander. Overall the Pakistan batting has underwhelmed , and few will look deeply into the fifties scored against UAE in Napier two evenings ago. Batting is their weak link , which Misbah acknowledged , and that in turn demands more from Pakistan 's bowlers against a marauding South Africa batting line-up . " We know that we 've got a bowling attack where if we cross 250 , no team in the world is just , you could say , relaxing chasing that 250 , " said Misbah. " We have our targets , and we play according to our strengths , and the kind of start we had in the last game , if we can repeat it against the top sides , we can manage to score 300. It 's all about how you start the game and then how you finish it , so it 's really important for us to have good starts , then to just go and score big. I think our bowling has been really doing well. We are confident that we 've got bowlers who can get a wicket against any team. We are confident that we 've got a bowling attack that can really put them under pressure. " With regards to Pakistan , it is difficult to see the woefully out of touch Nasir Jamshed get a fourth game following scores of 0 , 1 and 4. Misbah spoke before the Napier game of how it was n't as if Jamshed had gotten " nine or ten innings " to be judged on , but his repeated failures and lethargic fielding makes it tough to select him. For a team that has only one century opening stand in the previous eight matches , persisting with a liable batsman looks doubtful . When the World Cup squad was announced , the board chairman termed wicketkeeper-batsman Sarfraz Ahmed as the third opener , but the 27-year-old has not featured in a game this tournament. In the three ODIs against Australia ( last October ) that he has been promoted to open , Sarfraz scored 34 , 65 and 32 at a strike-rate of 86.18 - very high within this current set of batsmen - and shared partnerships of 9 , 126 and 56 with Ahmed Shehzad. A major theme with Pakistan before and during the World Cup has been the surprise exclusion of Safraz , and now could be the time to throw him in. The experimental opening stand before Jamshed was paired with Shehzad against West Indies in Christchurch was Shehzad and Younis Khan , but the latter 's failure quickly send him back to No 3 , where he made 0 against West Indies . After the win over UAE , coach Waqar Younis was asked whether Younis had a role to play in the remainder of the tournament and firmly said yes without adding more. Today it was Misbah 's turn to answer that same question. " He is a very experienced batsman and surely brings a lot of value to our side , " he said of the veteran Younis. " Yes , he has n't been in form but he remains an integral part of the team and we rely on his inputs and hope he clicks when given the chance. We do consider him as an opening option. " That one spot at the top remains the major concern for Pakistan. In Napier , Shehzad shrugged off a lean run with 93 , Haris Sohail scored a fluent 70 from No 3 , Sohaib Maqsood breezed to 45 from 31 balls , Misbah added a third fifty and Shahid Afridi 's seven-ball 21 showed that he too has something to contribute. The five-bowler approach has resulted in two wins in a row , so there are no foreseen changes. Mohammad Irfan is expected to play after an injury concern from Napier . South Africa - positioned second in Pool B table with six points - have no real form worries , but they could do with a strong score from opener Quinton de Kock who has made 7 , 7 , 12 and 1 in the World Cup. He is the designated wicketkeeper too , but South Africa can easily call on de Villiers to perform that role. Philander and JP Duminy have come through fitness tests and are fit and available for section , leaving the management with the tough decision of who to drop. In Duminy 's absence , Rilee Rossouw scored 61 off 39 balls and 61 not out off 30 balls , two blazing innings that helped the totals past 400. Abbott , drafted in for the injured Philander , has taken six wickets in two games while making incisions up front and at the death . Steyn commended Abbott on his World Cup performances , while addressing South Africa 's problem of plenty. " Yeah , some nice problems in our camp , is n't it ? Guys that have scored hundreds sitting on the sideline. We have one of the best most skilful bowlers in Vernon who is just working his way back from injury , and you get somebody to replace him like Kyle , " he said. " He comes out and takes wickets and it 's part of a team that scored two 400 runs in a row and still managed to get 20 wickets. So , yeah , nice problem to have. He [ Kyle ] gets his chance like he did the other day and grabbed it with both hands. It just shows that the guys waiting in the wings are prepared to step up and are prepared to perform too. So I 'm sure whoever plays tomorrow will be hungry enough to take wickets and score runs. " As de Villiers said a couple days ago , no one is guaranteed a spot in the XI. That is as close an indication that Abbott , as lively and quickly as he bowled , may go back to the bench on Saturday. Duminy 's return is more straightforward , with the allrounder Farhaan Behardien likely to make way , and the think-tank appears to have plenty of faith in 22-year-old de Kock. If , and it is a tiny if , de Kock is benched , then Rossouw could be bumped back to open with the prolific Hashim Amla . There are chances of rain on game day , and washout would give Pakistan one point. Considering how scratchy they 've been , as well as how massive the challenge mounted by South Africa is , they may not be too unhappy with a point from this crucial fixture . Probable XIs South Africa : 1 Quentin de Kock ( wk ) , 2 Hashim Amla , 3 Faf du Plessis , 4 AB de Villiers ( capt/wk ) , 5 JP Duminy , 6 David Miller , 7 Rilee Roussow , 8 Dale Steyn , 9 Kyle Abbott/Vernon Philander , 10 Morne Morkel , 11 Imran Tahir Pakistan : 1 Nasir Jamshed/Younis Khan/Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 Ahmed Shehzad , 3 Haris Sohail , 4 Misbah-ul-Haq ( capt ) , 5 Sohaib Maqsood , 6 Umar Akmal ( wk ) , 7 Shahid Afridi , 8 Wahab Riaz , 9 Sohail Khan , 10 Rahat Ali , 11 Mohammad Irfan Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
