That 's it from us. We have a double-header tomorrow. First , New Zealand take on Bangladesh in Hamilton and then Afghanistan play England in Sydney in the second game. Looking forward to your company then. Until then , goodbye ! Let 's take a look at some of the interesting tweets from this game : @ PaulRadley : He 's done it. Mohammed Naveed 's lone aim for this World Cup was to hit Dale Steyn for six. Mission accomplished , 15 rows back . @ gusvdwalt1 : We ca n't rely only on our batting. Our bowlers need to be more attacking. They need to hunt and take wickets . @ bhogleharsha : I say this with some hesitation , but is Dale Steyn,,,,,,you know......a little.......not quite...... . @ cricket_U : Shaiman Anwar has scored 309 runs this World Cup , most by a player from Associate teams in a single WC. Prev : 307 Ryan ten Doeschate in 2011 . de Villiers : " Very happy about today. It was quite hard in the earlier stages of the match. There was a bit of movement for the UAE bowlers and they made it difficult for us. They bowled pretty well upfront. I was very happy with the way we fought throughout the innings today. The guys showed a bit of fight , which is great and that is what I want to see as a captain and it was nice to form some partnerships out there with a few of our batters and got a decent total towards the end. I wo n't say it 's simple , but I try to keep it simple ( when asked how simple it is to change his game every innings ) . I try to stick to my game plans. It was important for me to stick to my game plans today and I thought most of our batters stuck to their plans really well. I am extremely happy. It 's never just a given that you are going to make the quarter-finals of a World Cup. It 's a huge moment and an opportunity for us as a team and we are excited to go to , I think it 's Sydney. It was an opportunity tonight to give some of the part-time bowlers a run. I got through all of us and looks pretty good and might come in handy in one of the knockout games. It 's not a given that we are going to play seven batters once again , but if we do , it 's nice to have the guys with some decent form with the ball and if the guys that are not seen as full-time bowlers - myself , JP ( Duminy ) , Farhaan ( Behardien ) and guys like that and maybe even Faf ( du Plessis ) - can chip in , it 's good for the team. " AB de Villiers is the Man of the Match for his 82-ball 99 and 2/15 Tauqir : " I think we bowled well in the first innings , until 44-45 overs and then it went a bit wrong in the last 4-5 overs. In batting , I thought it was a good knock from Swapnil Patil and we almost batted 50 overs and it 's a positive sign for our batters. It has given us a lot of confidence. Batting almost 50 overs against them ( South Africa ) , they 've got some amazing bowlers in Steyn , Morkel and Philander. They bowled in some very difficult areas for us. We are not used to playing these kind of bowlers , so we got a lot of confidence that we almost played 50 overs and it was a brilliant knock from Swapnil Patil as well. We 've got some good academies and facilities in Dubai. We 've got some good youngsters , but they need to learn and they need to grow and play more cricket. There is a huge difference between our domestic circuit and this level. The whole tournament is a good learning experience and the more we play against these nations , it 's better for our cricket. " For UAE , Naveed and Mohammad Tauqir bowled reasonably well. Naveed was rewarded for his efforts with three wickets. However , their fielding was below par as they dropped a slew of chances. After a disappointing loss against Pakistan , South Africa would be pleased with a win. With this victory , they have also qualified for the quarter-finals. On the other hand , this World Cup has been a steep learning curve for UAE. They still have to play a game against the West Indies in Napier. If by chance they upset the apple-cart and defeat the Windies , UAE will send the two-time champions on a long flight back to the Caribbean . The South African camp certainly would be happy with Morkel 's superlative performance. However , up against a better batting line-up , they may struggle by playing just four regular bowlers. Their fielding too was pretty good. Rilee Rossouw took a blinder of a catch at point to dismiss Andri Berenger. Earlier , it was de Villiers , who shone brightly with the bat as well. After South Africa found themselves in a spot of bother , de Villiers rose to the occasion by playing some glorious shots to take them to a mammoth score on the board. Unfortunately for de Villiers , he was dismissed for 99. David Miller gave him good support with a fine innings of 49. Farhaan Behardien , with his pyrotechnics , tore apart UAE 's attack in the slog overs to notch up a rapid half-century . However , Shaiman and Patil held UAE 's innings together for a brief period and Shaiman even used his feet to thump Vernon Philander for a couple of boundaries. Shaiman though , in an attempt to up the tempo lost his wicket to Imran Tahir. AB de Villiers then banged it short and surprisingly , picked up a couple of wickets. But UAE went down fighting , with Naveed providing the sparse crowd some entertainment by thrashing Dale Steyn for a four and a six in a single over. Patil , who played with composure , scored a fifty . Despite Shaiman Anwar and Swapnil Patil playing with pluck and determination to make decent contributions , UAE 's batsmen struggled against a quality attack and hurtled towards a heavy defeat. Once South Africa had piled up a massive total on the board , it felt as if they had already batted their opponents out of the game. It became apparent when Morne Morkel extracted disconcerting bounce and bowled with good pace to take wickets upfront to leave UAE reeling at 45 for 3 . The South African players shake hands with the UAE batsmen. The Proteas have officially qualified for the quarter-finals now . Fahad Alhashmi , who injured his right knee while bowling , is in the hospital and will not bat . 47.3 Philander to Kamran Shazad , out Caught by Steyn ! ! Short ball from Philander , Shazad stays leg-side and slogs , the bat turns in his hands and he ends up slicing it. Mid-on runs back and to his left to complete an easy catch. Kamran Shazad c Steyn b Philander 0 ( 3 ) Philander to Kamran Shazad , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 47.2 Philander to Kamran Shazad , no run , tries to go over the on-side , but toe-ends it to mid-on on the bounce 47.1 Philander to Kamran Shazad , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Shazad has a wild swing at it but misses Vernon Philander [ 8.0-1-34-1 ] is back into the attack 46.6 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , no run , short ball on the leg stump , Patil ducks under it 46.5 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Patil defends it towards point 46.4 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , 2 runs , Patil goes aerial once again. Full and on the stumps , Patil lofts it over the bowler 's head and picks up two 46.3 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , no run , good length delivery from Morkel , Patil defends 46.2 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , no run , short and way outside off stump , Patil backs away and misses 46.1 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , FOUR , short ball on the stumps , Patil lofts it straight back over the bowler 's head and goes for the four Kamran Shazad , right handed bat , comes to the crease 45.6 Steyn to M Tauqir , out Bowled ! ! Finally , Steyn gets a wicket. Good length delivery on the stumps , Tauqir backs away and looks to go over the off-side , but misses and the ball hits the top of middle stump. No great celebrations from Steyn. M Tauqir b Steyn 3 ( 16 ) Steyn to M Tauqir , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 45.5 Steyn to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , short ball outside off stump , Patil fends and it goes off a thickish edge to third man 45.4 Steyn to Swapnil Patil , 2 runs , second ODI fifty for Patil. Short ball on the off stump , Patil rocks back and pulls over mid-wicket , the fielder from deep mid-wicket moves to his left and fields well , fires in a throw but it came at an awkward height for Steyn , who could n't collect the ball. Tauqir had slipped while coming back for the second and was well short of the crease. Had Steyn collected it cleanly , Tauqir would have been out. Patil raises his bat and his captain hugs him in delight 45.3 Steyn to Swapnil Patil , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Patil defends it to point 45.2 Steyn to Swapnil Patil , no run , short of length on the off stump , Patil defends off the back foot 45.1 Steyn to Swapnil Patil , no run , peach ! Just a bit of shape away from the right-hander on this good length delivery , Patil plays inside the line and gets beaten 44.6 M Morkel to M Tauqir , no run , shortish and outside off stump , Tauqir slashes and misses 44.5 M Morkel to M Tauqir , no run , short and on the stumps , Tauqir ducks under it 44.4 M Morkel to M Tauqir , leg byes , FOUR , round the wicket , bumper at the batsman , Tauqir tries to leave the ball , but it takes the arm guard and goes past the keeper , Steyn runs to his right from fine leg , but he could n't stop the ball despite sliding near the rope 44.3 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , shortish and on the stumps , Patil tucks it to backward square leg 44.2 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Patil defends it into the off-side 44.1 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Patil fends it into the off-side Morne Morkel [ 8.0-2-16-2 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Steyn to M Tauqir , no run , full and on the off stump , Tauqir defends 43.5 Steyn to M Tauqir , no run , that 's a good short ball from Steyn ! Steeply rising and right at the batsman , Tauqir just manages to sway away from the line 43.4 Steyn to M Tauqir , no run , short and wide outside off stump , Tauqir slashes and misses 43.3 Steyn to M Tauqir , no run , bouncer outside off stump , Tauqir lets it go 43.2 Steyn to M Tauqir , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Tauqir pushes it to point 43.1 Steyn to M Tauqir , no run , bit of late outswing on this good length delivery , Tauqir pokes and misses 42.6 Tahir to M Tauqir , 1 run , low full toss outside off stump , driven to long-off 42.5 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , driven towards mid-wicket , shockingly , AB fumbles and they get a run. AB is livid with himself 42.4 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , no run , punched off the back foot to cover 42.3 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , no run , googly spinning back into the right-hander , Patil turns it into the on-side 42.2 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , 2 runs , gets across the stumps and scoops the flighted delivery to fine leg 42.1 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , no run , tossed up outside off stump , driven to extra-cover 41.6 Steyn to M Tauqir , no run , bumper outside off stump , Tauqir lets it go 41.5 Steyn to M Tauqir , no run , short and wide outside off stump , Tauqir cuts and misses 41.4 Steyn to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Patil guides it down to third man 41.3 Steyn to Swapnil Patil , 2 runs , good length delivery outside off stump , Patil taps it to cover , Duminy slides and picks up the ball , but while getting up to throw , he loses the ball and they taken an extra run 41.2 Steyn to M Tauqir , 1 run , length ball outside off stump , guided away towards backward point , the fielder moves to his left but does n't stop it cleanly 41.1 Steyn to M Tauqir , no run , good length delivery on the stumps , Tauqir just manages to defend in time Dale Steyn [ 6.0-0-33-0 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , no run , googly spinning down the leg-side , Patil gets hit on the pad 40.6 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , wide , sprays this googly down the leg-side , de Kock takes the bails off as Patil loses his balance a bit , but he had his back foot grounded 40.5 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , FOUR , steps out and drives the googly inside out over extra-cover , he 's into the 40s now 40.4 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , no run , appeal for a catch but not given. Googly on the leg stump , Patil misses the flick , the ball lobs off the pad and the keeper takes the catch , it must have come off the flap of the pad 40.3 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , no run , advances again , but defends it into the off-side 40.2 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , no run , steps out and drives the flighted delivery back to the bowler 40.1 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , 2 runs , good shot from Patil , flighted delivery down the leg-side , Patil paddle-sweeps it very fine but it does n't have enough legs to reach the fence 39.6 Philander to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , on the off stump , Patil flicks it to mid-wicket 39.5 Philander to M Tauqir , 1 run , pushed to cover 39.4 Philander to Swapnil Patil , leg byes , 1 run , short of length delivery down the leg-side , Patil misses the flick and it rolls off the thigh pad to fine leg 39.3 Philander to Swapnil Patil , no run , short of length delivery , defended Mohammad Tauqir , right handed bat , comes to the crease 39.2 Philander to Naveed , out Caught by de Villiers ! ! That 's a dolly for ABdV ! Short ball on the stumps , Naveed stays leg-side and pulls , gets a top edge , the ball goes high in the air , mid-wicket moves to his right and takes an easy catch. Naveed c de Villiers b Philander 17 ( 15 ) [ 4s-2 6s-1 ] Philander to Naveed , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 39.1 Philander to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , on the leg stump , glanced to fine leg Vernon Philander [ 7.0-1-31-0 ] is back into the attack 38.6 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , advances and drives it down to long-on 38.5 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , no run , Patil defends easily this time 38.4 Tahir to Naveed , 1 run , googly outside off stump , Naveed drives it to extra-cover , where Amla makes a diving stop 38.3 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , leg byes , 1 run , googly from Tahir , Patil misses the defence and the ball goes off the pad 38.2 Tahir to Naveed , 1 run , low full toss , Naveed defends and gets an edge to short fine leg 38.1 Tahir to Naveed , no run , quicker ball outside off stump , Naveed misses the cut Imran Tahir [ 7.0-0-26-1 ] is back into the attack 37.6 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , no run , steeply rising bumper , Patil just manages to get out of the way 37.5 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Patil defends 37.4 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Patil hops and fends 37.3 M Morkel to Naveed , 1 run , that 's gone straight up in the air and it 's taken , but it wo n't count. Short and on the stumps , Naveed top-edges the slog , the keeper runs forward and takes the catch. Meanwhile , they complete a run 37.3 M Morkel to Naveed , wide , free-hit stays. Back over the wicket , short and way outside off stump , Naveed could n't reach out Free-hit 37.3 M Morkel to Naveed , no ball , Morkel oversteps as he delivers this full ball outside off stump , Naveed goes leg-side and throws the kitchen sink at it but misses the ball Round the wicket 37.2 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , short of length delivery on the stumps , Patil turns it to square leg 37.1 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , no run , good length delivery on the off stump , Patil defends Morne Morkel [ 7.0-2-12-2 ] is back into the attack Dale Steyn is furious with himself. He shakes his head as he takes the cap from the umpire and walks to his fielding position . 36.6 Steyn to Naveed , no run , slower ball wide outside off stump , Naveed thinks about guiding it to third man but lets it go 36.5 Steyn to Naveed , SIX , go get that , Dale Steyn ! Absolutely no respect from Naveed. Goes leg-side , Steyn offers a shortish ball again , Naveed slogs hard and times it well for a 93-metre hit over wide long-on 36.4 Steyn to Naveed , FOUR , outside edge and that 's frustrating for Steyn. Short and just outside off stump , Naveed backs away and swings hard , the edge flies over the keeper 36.3 Steyn to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , full and on the stumps , Patil turns it to backward square leg 36.2 Steyn to Swapnil Patil , FOUR , low full toss , Patil flicks it along the ground through backward square leg and it races away. Steyn missed the yorker by a big margin 36.1 Steyn to Swapnil Patil , no run , short of length delivery just moving away outside off stump , Patil pokes and misses Dale Steyn [ 5.0-0-18-0 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Philander to Naveed , FOUR , he 's timed that alright and there is no one at long-off. Full and outside off stump , Naveed lofts it over mid-off and it runs away to the boundary 35.5 Philander to Naveed , no run , and again. Has a wild swing at this short ball but misses 35.4 Philander to Naveed , no run , short ball way outside off stump , Naveed slogs and misses 35.3 Philander to Naveed , leg byes , FOUR , oops ! That 's not the way to play the bouncer. Naveed just drops his head as Philander bangs this short , the ball hits the helmet and goes over the keeper to the boundary. Naveed is fine though 35.2 Philander to Naveed , no run , a wild swing from Naveed , but only manages to connect with thin air 35.1 Philander to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Patil guides it to third man Vernon Philander [ 6.0-1-26-0 ] is back into the attack Batting powerplay time . 34.6 de Villiers to Naveed , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Naveed backs away and mistimes the slog 34.5 de Villiers to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , short of length delivery on the stumps , Patil flicks it to mid-wicket 34.4 de Villiers to Swapnil Patil , FOUR , short ball from de Villiers , Patil pulls and sends it through mid-wicket 34.3 de Villiers to Swapnil Patil , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , pushed into the off-side Mohammad Naveed , right handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now 34.2 de Villiers to Amjad Javed , out Caught by ( sub ) Parnell ! ! Wicket number two for de Villiers. Boy ! He 's a superhuman. Can bat , can field , can keep , can lead and now can bowl and pick wickets as well. Short ball outside off stump , Javed tries to pull but mistimes it high in the air , Parnell runs back from mid-wicket , tries to reverse cup it but the ball pops. He manages to juggle it a number of times and then takes the catch again. Parnell was suggesting to his mates that he was confused whether to go for the reverse cup or go the conventional way to take the catch. Amjad Javed c ( sub ) Parnell b de Villiers 5 ( 4 ) [ 4s-1 ] de Villiers to Amjad Javed , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 34.1 de Villiers to Amjad Javed , FOUR , he 's flat-batted that. Short and outside off stump , Javed smashes it to the left of de Villiers , who tries to grab it with his left hand in his followthrough , gets his fingertips but it goes to the long-off boundary 33.6 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , no run , steps out and defends it into the off-side 33.5 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , no run , googly from Tahir , Patil looks to defend off the front foot , the ball hits the pad but it was going down the leg-side 33.4 Tahir to Amjad Javed , 1 run , on the leg stump , Javed turns it to fine leg 33.3 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , tossed up outside off stump , Patil steps and drives it to long-off 33.2 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , no run , tossed up on the stumps , Patil defends off the front foot again 33.1 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , no run , flighted delivery on the leg stump , Patil defends 32.6 de Villiers to Amjad Javed , no run , back of a length delivery outside off stump , Javed defends 32.5 de Villiers to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , short of length delivery on the leg stump , Patil pulls it to backward square leg Amjad Javed , right handed bat , comes to the crease 32.4 de Villiers to Saqlain Haider , out Caught by Rossouw ! ! Another good catch by Rossouw. Short ball outside off stump , Haider goes for the pull , but mistimes it , deep square leg runs to his right , puts in the dive and holds on to a good low catch. Third wicket for de Villiers in as many games in this World Cup. Saqlain Haider c Rossouw b de Villiers 7 ( 12 ) [ 4s-1 ] 32.3 de Villiers to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , good length delivery on the off stump , Patil defends and gets an edge that rolls to third man 32.3 de Villiers to Swapnil Patil , wide , full and down the leg-side , de Kock does well to stop the ball 32.2 de Villiers to Swapnil Patil , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Patil defends 32.1 de Villiers to Saqlain Haider , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Haider guides it down to third man 31.6 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , no run , tossed up outside off stump , driven to the right of the bowler 31.5 Tahir to Saqlain Haider , 1 run , on the leg stump , Haider flicks it to backward square leg 31.4 Tahir to Saqlain Haider , FOUR , tries the reverse sweep and gets it over and past the man at backward point , it 's a bit of a top edge and it went well over Morne Morkel , who was inside the ring 31.3 Tahir to Saqlain Haider , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Haider defends 31.2 Tahir to Saqlain Haider , no run , looks to defend the googly off the front foot but gets beaten 31.1 Tahir to Saqlain Haider , no run , flighted delivery outside off stump , Haider defends 30.6 de Villiers to Saqlain Haider , 1 run , opens the face of the bat and guides the short of length delivery to third man 30.5 de Villiers to Saqlain Haider , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Haider defends 30.4 de Villiers to Saqlain Haider , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Haider looks to guide it down to third man but misses 30.3 de Villiers to Saqlain Haider , no run , good length delivery on the stumps , Haider turns it into the off-side 30.2 de Villiers to Saqlain Haider , no run , just outside off stump , defended 30.1 de Villiers to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , down the leg-side , Patil glances it to fine leg AB de Villiers , right-arm medium , comes into the attack Saqlain Haider , left handed bat , comes to the crease 29.6 Tahir to Shaiman Anwar , out Caught by Rossouw ! ! End of a 63-run stand. Flighted delivery on the leg stump , Anwar slog-sweeps , but hits it straight to deep mid-wicket , who takes an easy catch. End of a gritty knock from Anwar , who has recorded the most number of runs by an Associate batsman in a World Cup. Anwar walks away in disappointment. Shaiman Anwar c Rossouw b Tahir 39 ( 64 ) [ 4s-5 ] Tahir to Shaiman Anwar , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 29.5 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , on the leg stump , Patil turns it to mid-wicket 29.4 Tahir to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , takes the flighted delivery on the full and sweeps it along the ground to deep mid-wicket 29.3 Tahir to Shaiman Anwar , no run , wrong 'un again , Anwar defends and gets an inside edge onto pad 29.2 Tahir to Shaiman Anwar , no run , googly from Tahir , Anwar defends 29.1 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , driven to long-off Patil backs away and just taps it as Tahir let that go and it 's called a dead ball. There was an issue with the sightscreen 28.6 M Morkel to Shaiman Anwar , no run , slower ball from Morkel , Anwar goes early into the pull and gets hit on the stomach. No harm done though Free-hit coming up 28.6 M Morkel to Shaiman Anwar , no ball , the Giraffe has crossed the line. Anwar defends the good length delivery to point 28.5 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , full on the leg stump , Patil flicks it to mid-wicket 28.4 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , no run , short ball down the leg-side , Patil ducks under it 28.3 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , no run , fullish and outside off stump , Patil defends off the front foot 28.2 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , no run , this good length delivery nips away a touch , Patil adjusts and defends 28.1 M Morkel to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Anwar glances it down to fine leg 27.6 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , no run , googly again , Patil misses the flicks , gets hit on the pad but it was too high 27.5 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , no run , on the stumps , Patil flicks it to mid-wicket 27.4 Tahir to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , googly outside off stump , Anwar drives it to long-off 27.3 Tahir to Shaiman Anwar , no run , driven back hard to the bowler 27.2 Tahir to Shaiman Anwar , FOUR , poor ball ! Fast and down the leg-side , Anwar gets down on one knee and helps it on its way and fine leg was too square. 100 up for UAE 27.1 Tahir to Shaiman Anwar , no run , backs away and tries to force it through the off-side , mistimed to cover Imran Tahir [ 3.0-0-11-0 ] is back into the attack 26.6 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , no run , shortish and outside off stump , Patil lets it go 26.5 M Morkel to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Anwar drives it to mid-off for a sharp run 26.4 M Morkel to Shaiman Anwar , byes , FOUR , oh that 's bounced and moved after pitching , de Kock had no chance. Short and just outside off stump , Anwar lets it go , the ball swings to the left of the keeper after passing the batsman 26.3 M Morkel to Shaiman Anwar , no run , short and outside off stump , left alone 26.2 M Morkel to Shaiman Anwar , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Anwar defends it to point 26.1 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , defends the good length delivery away from the body and edges it along the ground to third man Morne Morkel [ 5.0-2-7-2 ] is back into the attack 25.6 Philander to Shaiman Anwar , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Anwar mistimes the pull to mid-wicket 25.5 Philander to Shaiman Anwar , FOUR , again advances and this time he lofts the ball straight back over the bowler 's head. Short of a length delivery on the stumps , Anwar plays a lofted straight drive and picks up four more 25.4 Philander to Shaiman Anwar , no run , short ball on the off stump , Anwar ducks under it 25.3 Philander to Shaiman Anwar , FOUR , excellent hit ! Full and outside off stump , Anwar advances and crashes the drive very hard , hits it to the left of mid-off and it rockets to the fence 25.2 Philander to Shaiman Anwar , no run , almost knocked him over. This short delivery nips back in , Anwar looks to defend and the ball goes past the inside edge. It was n't too far away from the stumps as well 25.1 Philander to Shaiman Anwar , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Anwar mistimes the pull to mid-wicket 24.6 Steyn to Swapnil Patil , no run , short ball angling away from the right-hander , left alone Round the wicket 24.5 Steyn to Swapnil Patil , no run , drops his wrists and lets this short ball go 24.4 Steyn to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , full and on the stumps , Anwar flicks it along the ground to deep mid-wicket 24.3 Steyn to Shaiman Anwar , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Anwar defends off the back foot 24.3 Steyn to Shaiman Anwar , no run 24.2 Steyn to Shaiman Anwar , no run , full and outside off stump , Anwar defends off the front foot 24.1 Steyn to Shaiman Anwar , no run , on a good length and outside off stump , punched towards point 23.6 Philander to Swapnil Patil , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Patil defends off the back foot 23.5 Philander to Swapnil Patil , no run , full and outside off stump , driven into the off-side 23.4 Philander to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , short of length delivery on the leg stump , Anwar flicks it to deep square leg 23.3 Philander to Shaiman Anwar , FOUR , he 's hammered that. Short and on the stumps , Anwar gets on top of the bounce and pulls it powerfully through mid-wicket , the fielder in the deep had no chance 23.2 Philander to Shaiman Anwar , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Anwar hops and gets an inside edge onto pad 23.1 Philander to Swapnil Patil , leg byes , 1 run , short of length delivery nips back in , bit of extra bounce and it hits Patil high on the thigh pad Vernon Philander [ 4.0-1-13-0 ] is back into the attack 22.6 Steyn to Shaiman Anwar , no run , shortish and on the off stump , Anwar pulls it to mid-wicket 22.5 Steyn to Shaiman Anwar , no run , steeply rising short ball this time , Anwar drops his wrists and lets it go 22.4 Steyn to Shaiman Anwar , no run , Anwar tries to duck under this short ball , but it was n't short enough and it hits him on the left arm , no harm done though 22.3 Steyn to Shaiman Anwar , no run , full and outside off stump , Anwar defends off the front foot 22.2 Steyn to Shaiman Anwar , no run , good length delivery on the off stump , Anwar turns it to mid-wicket 22.1 Steyn to Shaiman Anwar , FOUR , not the best of starts to his new spell. Full and on the leg stump , Anwar flicks it through backward square leg , Tahir runs to his left from fine leg but does n't get there in time Dale Steyn [ 3.0-0-13-0 ] is back into the attack 21.6 Behardien to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Anwar punches it through backward point 21.5 Behardien to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Patil defends it to cover and sets off 21.4 Behardien to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , runs this down to third man with an angled bat 21.3 Behardien to Shaiman Anwar , no run , short of length delivery down the leg-side , Anwar misses the flick and gets hit on the pad 21.2 Behardien to Shaiman Anwar , 2 runs , almost dragged on. Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Anwar gets an under edge that almost hits the off stump 21.1 Behardien to Shaiman Anwar , no run , spinning away outside off stump , defended towards point 20.6 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , FOUR , short and on the stumps , Patil pulls it through mid-wicket , Amla runs to his left from deep backward square leg , dives but parries it to the boundary 20.5 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , no run , driven back by Patil 20.4 Tahir to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , googly outside off stump , Anwar drives , extra-cover dives to his right and half-stops the ball 20.3 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , on the leg stump , Patil drives it down to long-on 20.2 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , no run , just outside off stump , Patil defends 20.1 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , no run , flighted delivery on the stumps , Patil drives it back to the bowler 19.6 Behardien to Shaiman Anwar , no run , fullish delivery outside off stump , Anwar defends 19.5 Behardien to Shaiman Anwar , no run , short and wide outside off stump , Anwar reaches out and looks to cut , but chops it onto the keeper 's pads 19.4 Behardien to Shaiman Anwar , no run , steps out and looks to drive , but gets hit on the pad 19.3 Behardien to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , full and just outside off stump , Patil flicks it wide of mid-on 19.2 Behardien to Swapnil Patil , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Patil pushes away from the body and gets beaten 19.2 Behardien to Swapnil Patil , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Patil pushes away from the body and gets beaten 19.1 Behardien to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , pushed to sweeper cover 18.6 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , no run , leans forward and defends the googly off the front foot 18.5 Tahir to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , low full toss , driven to long-off 18.4 Tahir to Shaiman Anwar , no run , tight line from Tahir , Anwar defends 18.3 Tahir to Shaiman Anwar , no run , on the leg stump , defended to the right of the bowler 18.2 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , driven down to long-off again 18.1 Tahir to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , tossed up outside off stump , Anwar drives it to long-off 17.6 Behardien to Swapnil Patil , no run , good length delivery on the stumps , Patil defends it towards mid-on 17.5 Behardien to Swapnil Patil , no run , full and down the leg-side , Patil misses the flick , that should have been a wide 17.4 Behardien to Swapnil Patil , no run , full and on the leg stump , Patil drives it to mid-on 17.3 Behardien to Swapnil Patil , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Patil goes for the cut and misses 17.2 Behardien to Swapnil Patil , no run , full and on the off stump , driven to the right of the bowler 17.1 Behardien to Swapnil Patil , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Patil pokes away from the body and gets beaten 16.6 Tahir to Shaiman Anwar , no run , leans forward and defends well 16.5 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , full toss on the pads , Patil gets it on the inside half of the bat and rolls to fine leg 16.4 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , no run , defends the googly gently from the crease 16.3 Tahir to Swapnil Patil , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , defended 16.2 Tahir to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , low full toss outside off stump , Anwar drives it to long-off 16.1 Tahir to Shaiman Anwar , no run , slider down the leg-side , Anwar misses the flick , gets hit on the pad Imran Tahir , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack For South Africa , Philander bowled a good line , but did n't extract subtle movement off the deck. AB de Villiers then introduced Morne Morkel into the attack and he immediately made an impact by extracting disconcerting bounce to produce the edge off Berenger 's bat and Rilee Rossouw took an excellent catch one-handed at point. Amjad followed him back to the pavilion as he was dismissed by JP Duminy. On the other hand , Morkel continued to trouble UAE 's batsmen with pace and bounce and was rewarded with the wicket of Khurram Khan . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the first 16 overs : Amjad Ali and Andri Berenger gave a good account of themselves against the pace duo of Vernon Philander and Dale Steyn. It was Amjad , who took advantage of a half-volley bowled by Steyn to flick it for a boundary. He showed good wrist-work to flick Philander for a four as well . Drinks are on the field now 15.6 Behardien to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , good length delivery outside off stump , Anwar guides it to third man 15.5 Behardien to Shaiman Anwar , no run , slower ball outside off stump , Anwar defends 15.5 Behardien to Shaiman Anwar , wide , Behardien has to rebowl that , it was full and way outside off stump 15.4 Behardien to Shaiman Anwar , no run , pushed the left of cover , Anwar wants a run but Patil sends him back 15.4 Behardien to Shaiman Anwar , wide , short and way outside off stump , easy call for the umpire 15.3 Behardien to Shaiman Anwar , no run , flicked to mid-wicket 15.2 Behardien to Shaiman Anwar , no run , fullish and outside off stump , punched to point 15.1 Behardien to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , gets across the stumps and flicks the short of length delivery through backward square leg Farhaan Behardien , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 14.6 M Morkel to Shaiman Anwar , 2 runs , punched nicely off the front foot , mid-off is very square and they get a couple of runs. 50 up for UAE 14.5 M Morkel to Shaiman Anwar , no run , fullish and outside off stump , pushed to mid-on 14.4 M Morkel to Shaiman Anwar , no run , short and outside off stump , left alone 14.3 M Morkel to Shaiman Anwar , no run , full and outside off stump , Anwar defends off the front foot 14.2 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , this one jags away off the deck , but Patil played this with soft hands and the outside edge rolled wide of third slip to third man 14.1 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , no run , tentative poke away from the body and he almost kisses it to the keeper. Short of a length delivery well outside off stump , Patil feels for the ball and gets beaten 13.6 Duminy to Shaiman Anwar , no run , on the off stump , blocked. That was a good tight over from Duminy 13.5 Duminy to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , plants his front foot right across the line and drives the flighted delivery towards mid-on 13.4 Duminy to Swapnil Patil , no run , pushed back to the bowler 13.3 Duminy to Swapnil Patil , no run , tossed up outside off stump , Patil defends easily again 13.2 Duminy to Swapnil Patil , no run , flighted delivery outside off stump , Patil defends off the front foot 13.1 Duminy to Shaiman Anwar , 1 run , stays round the wicket and delivers a flighted delivery down the leg-side , glanced away towards fine leg 12.6 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , no run , tries the yorker , but bowls a low full toss , Patil digs it out 12.5 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , no run , keep your eyes on the ball Patil ! He lets this bumper go but he was n't watching the ball 12.4 M Morkel to Swapnil Patil , no run , almost another for Morkel ! Fullish and outside off stump , Patil looks to defend , plays away from the body and gets beaten Swapnil Patil , right handed bat , comes to the crease 12.3 M Morkel to K Khan , out Caught by de Kock ! ! Under edge and Morkel has two now. 146.8kph short of a length delivery outside off stump , Khan tries to fetch the pull , but edges it to the keeper , who takes a simple catch. UAE have lost three wickets in a space of 16 runs. K Khan c de Kock b M Morkel 12 ( 17 ) [ 4s-2 ] M Morkel to K Khan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 12.2 M Morkel to K Khan , no run , fullish and asking Khan to go for the drive , but the batsman was simply ball-watching on that occasion 12.1 M Morkel to K Khan , no run , good length delivery angling away from the left-hander , Khan drives away from the body and gets beaten There is a fielder at short leg , who is a little deeper than normal . 11.6 Duminy to Shaiman Anwar , no run , not fully forward to this flighted delivery on the off stump but he defends well 11.5 Duminy to Shaiman Anwar , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Anwar defends off the front foot Shaiman Anwar , right handed bat , comes to the crease One slip in place . 11.4 Duminy to Amjad Ali , out Caught by Behardien ! ! It 's a top edge and he 's holed out in the deep. Duminy gets a lucky wicket , certainly not a wicket taking ball and he has not bowled well to deserve one as well. Flighted delivery down the leg-side , Ali goes for the conventional sweep this time , gets a big top edge , the ball flies in the air , deep square leg runs to his left and swallows it easily. Amjad Ali c Behardien b Duminy 21 ( 36 ) [ 4s-3 ] Duminy to Amjad Ali , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 11.3 Duminy to Amjad Ali , no run , tossed up just outside off stump , Ali defends off the front foot 11.2 Duminy to Amjad Ali , no run , plays the reverse-sweep but picks out short third man 11.1 Duminy to Amjad Ali , no run , flighted delivery , defended 10.6 M Morkel to K Khan , no run , shortish and outside off stump , left alone 10.5 M Morkel to K Khan , no run , now Morkel hits him on the glove. Short ball , again extra bounce , Khan hops and tries to defend but gets hit on the glove 10.4 M Morkel to K Khan , no run , oh my word ! Morkel has hit Khan on the helmet. The batsman is alright though. Morkel checks his health. Thankfully it just hit the side of the helmet , had he taken his eyes off a bit earlier , it would have missed the gear and hit him around the ear , which would have been very bad. It was a nasty bumper , steep bounce as well and the batsman could n't handle it 10.3 M Morkel to Amjad Ali , 1 run , fullish and outside off stump , steered with an angled bat to third man 10.2 M Morkel to K Khan , 1 run , almost chopped on ! Short of a length delivery just outside off stump , Khan defends and gets an inside edge that escapes past the sticks to fine leg Back over the wicket to Khan 10.1 M Morkel to Amjad Ali , 1 run , good length delivery outside off stump , Ali guides it to third man 9.6 Duminy to K Khan , no run , flighted delivery outside off stump , Khan drives it to mid-off 9.5 Duminy to K Khan , no run , this is the fourth short ball in 5 balls , Khan unfortunately picks out backward point with the cut shot 9.4 Duminy to K Khan , 2 runs , on the pads , Khan flicks it to mid-wicket and returns for the second 9.3 Duminy to K Khan , FOUR , he 's not missing out this time though. Slow , short and spinning away from Khan , who rocks back and cuts it to the left of point for four more 9.2 Duminy to K Khan , no run , it 's short again from Duminy , but he gets away with it as Khan cuts it straight to point 9.1 Duminy to K Khan , FOUR , Duminy starts off with a short ball , bit of turn away outside off stump , Khan rocks back and punches it off the back foot through cover-point and it runs away to the boundary Leg slip in place . Jean-Paul Duminy , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Morne Morkel has not conceded a run in his last 11 balls. Time for some spin , Duminy comes on . 8.6 M Morkel to Amjad Ali , no run , nice bumper to end the over and that 's a maiden over. Short and on the stumps , Ali sits under it 8.5 M Morkel to Amjad Ali , no run , fullish and outside off stump , bit of movement away off the pitch as well , Ali lets it go 8.4 M Morkel to Amjad Ali , no run , shout for LBW , but it was little high and maybe missing leg stump as well. Ali does n't move his feet much and tries to help this length ball on its way behind square on the on-side , misses and gets hit high on the pad 8.3 M Morkel to Amjad Ali , no run , short and outside off stump , Ali takes his bat out of the way 8.2 M Morkel to Amjad Ali , no run , a poke away from the body and he gets away with it. Good length delivery outside off stump , Ali looks to defend off the front foot , but the ball beats the outside edge 8.1 M Morkel to Amjad Ali , no run , stays round the wicket and delivers a short of length delivery , Ali misses the defence and gets hit on the thigh pad 7.6 Philander to Amjad Ali , 1 run , nicely done ! Walks across the stumps a touch , Ali flicks it to square leg , the fielder dives to his right but the ball goes through him 7.5 Philander to Amjad Ali , no run , back of a length close to off stump , watchfully defended 7.4 Philander to Amjad Ali , no run , fullish and outside off stump , Ali drives it to mid-off , where ABdV makes a diving save to his left 7.3 Philander to K Khan , 1 run , on the leg stump , glanced away to fine leg 7.2 Philander to K Khan , no run , very full outside off stump , dug out to point 7.1 Philander to Amjad Ali , 1 run , good length delivery outside off stump , Ali defends and gets a thick edge that goes wide of the second slip fielder to third man 6.6 M Morkel to K Khan , no run , length delivery outside off stump , Khan shoulders arms 6.5 M Morkel to K Khan , no run , again steep bounce for Morkel and it almost took the glove on the way to de Kock as Khan lifted his bat to let it go Khurram Khan , left handed bat , comes to the crease 6.4 M Morkel to Andri Berenger , out Caught by Rossouw ! ! In the airrrrrrr and ohhh has he taken it ? He is confident ! Boy ! What a catch that was ! That 's a clean catch and probably the catch of the tournament so far. Steeply rising short of length delivery outside off stump , Berenger looks to defend but is surprised by the extra bounce , the ball hits him high on the bat , Rossouw runs forward and to his left from backward point , dives forward and pulls off a left-handed stunner just inches from the ground. The bowling change has worked for the Proteas ! Andri Berenger c Rossouw b M Morkel 5 ( 21 ) [ 4s-1 ] M Morkel to Andri Berenger , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 6.3 M Morkel to Andri Berenger , no run , good length delivery angling into the right-hander , Berenger misses the flick and gets hit on the pad but it was going down the leg-side 6.2 M Morkel to Andri Berenger , no run , bumper on the stumps , Berenger ducks under it Oops ! Andri Berenger pulls out as Morne was about to jump in his delivery stride. Points towards the square leg fielder , not sure why though ! 6.1 M Morkel to Amjad Ali , 1 run , guides this along the ground to third man Morne Morkel , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 5.6 Philander to Andri Berenger , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Berenger backs away and swings hard at it , but mistimes it back to the bowler 5.6 Philander to Andri Berenger , wide , Berenger goes leg-side , Philander attempts a widish yorker , he bowls it just inside the line , but the umpire reckons he has to rebowl that 5.6 Philander to Andri Berenger , no ball , Philander has overstepped , it would be a free-hit. Back of a length outside off stump , Berenger defends 5.5 Philander to Andri Berenger , no run , short of length delivery angling into the right-hander , Berenger gets across the stumps and gets hit on the pad but it going down the leg-side 5.4 Philander to Andri Berenger , no run , Berenger gets behind the line and defends well 5.3 Philander to Andri Berenger , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Berenger defends off the front foot 5.2 Philander to Amjad Ali , 3 runs , oops ! The Giraffe fumbles , looked funny as it was an easy stop. Short of a length delivery on the leg stump , Ali tucks it to backward square leg , Morne runs to his right and tries to stop it with his right hand , but spills the ball , Behradien has a shy at the bowler 's end but misses. A direct-hit would have been curtains for Berenger , de Villiers was backing up , but he too fumbles to allow another run Fine leg comes in , backward square leg sent back 5.1 Philander to Amjad Ali , FOUR , picked away on the on-side and it 's four to Ali. He gets across the sticks a bit , Philander offers a full ball on the off stump , Ali flicks it over square leg 4.6 Steyn to Andri Berenger , no run , gets right behind the line of this outswinging short of length delivery and defends well Back over the wicket to the right-hander 4.5 Steyn to Amjad Ali , 1 run , he 's had a wild swing at that but the ball goes off a thick outside edge , fullish and outside off stump , Ali slogs across the line , luckily for him the edge went very square and over gully Steyn to come round the wicket 4.4 Steyn to Amjad Ali , no run , full and outside off stump , Ali defends it softly to cover. Steyn went scrambled seam on that occasion 4.3 Steyn to Amjad Ali , no run , defends this good length delivery with an angled bat to point 4.2 Steyn to Amjad Ali , no run , not much of movement on this fuller length delivery , Ali easily defends off the front foot 4.1 Steyn to Amjad Ali , FOUR , good looking flick from Ali and it 's gone for four ! Steyn offers a juicy full ball on the stumps , Ali leans forward and flicks it along the ground to the left of mid-wicket 3.6 Philander to Andri Berenger , no run , good length on the stumps , defended into the on-side 3.5 Philander to Andri Berenger , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Berenger defends 3.4 Philander to Amjad Ali , leg byes , 1 run , short of length delivery from Philander , Ali misses the slog and it goes to fine leg off the thigh pad 3.3 Philander to Andri Berenger , leg byes , 1 run , fullish and angling into the right-hander , Berenger misses the flick , the ball goes off the pad and rolls towards backward square leg 3.2 Philander to Andri Berenger , no run , bit of a nip-backer from Philander this time , Berenger covers the off stump and defends well 3.1 Philander to Andri Berenger , no run , almost the outside edge there ! Berenger feels for the ball away from the body , it swung away very late and missed the bat 2.6 Steyn to Amjad Ali , no run , fullish and just outside off stump , Ali defends 2.5 Steyn to Andri Berenger , leg byes , 1 run , shout for LBW , not given. Are they going to review ? No , they do n't ! That ball was easily slipping down the leg-side , full ball from Steyn , Berenger misses the flick and gets hit on the pad 2.4 Steyn to Andri Berenger , no run , beaten all ends up ! Berenger had to play at this good length delivery , the ball shapes away very late and goes past the outside edge 2.3 Steyn to Andri Berenger , no run , back of a length from Steyn , Berenger defends 2.2 Steyn to Andri Berenger , FOUR , edged but over the slip cordon ! Nice outswinger outside off stump on a good length , Berenger looks to square-drive the ball off the back foot , gets a thick edge that flies over the third slip fielder , who jumped high 2.1 Steyn to Andri Berenger , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Berenger defends 1.6 Philander to Amjad Ali , leg byes , 2 runs , short of length delivery on middle and leg , Ali shuffles across and fails to clip it through the on-side , the ball rolls away into the leg-side off the pad , the batsmen sneak in a leg bye , the fielder from square leg runs forward and throws it at the striker 's end , he misses and the ball ricochets off the batsman , Rossouw was there backing up , but the ball got deflected from his direction , the batsmen run on the overthrow. The funny thing about the incident was that Ali did n't know that the ball had deflected off Berenger and he was charging back for the run on the overthrow , Berenger had no option but to go through with it , but since Rossouw was complaining , he puts his hand up and apologizes 1.5 Philander to Amjad Ali , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Ali looks to tuck it away into the on-side , he fails to lay bat on it and is hit on the thigh pad , there was an appeal , but it was too high and since he got across , the ball was missing off Three slips in place 1.4 Philander to Amjad Ali , no run , outswinger well outside off , Ali leaves it for the keeper 1.3 Philander to Amjad Ali , no run , back of a length delivery shaping away just outside off , Ali shuffles across and shoulders arms 1.2 Philander to Andri Berenger , 1 run , touch fuller and just outside off , Berenger leans forward into the drive , gets an inside edge that rolls away towards mid-on , the batsmen pinch a quick run 1.1 Philander to Andri Berenger , no run , Philander starts off with an inswinger on a good length , Berenger gets behind the line and defends it back to the bowler Vernon Philander , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Steyn to Amjad Ali , no run , bowls this one well outside off , Ali goes across the stumps , lifts his bat and lets it go 0.5 Steyn to Amjad Ali , no run , length delivery shaping away outside off , Ali goes across and looks to work it through the on-side , gets a leading edge as he closes the bat face a little too early , the ball rolls away towards point 0.4 Steyn to Amjad Ali , FOUR , what a shot to get off the mark , it was just short of a good length and just outside off , Ali shuffles across and pulls it magnificently behind square on the on-side , the ball rockets away to the fence 0.3 Steyn to Amjad Ali , no run , angling away outside off , Ali pushes at it after going across , the ball beats the outside edge 0.2 Steyn to Amjad Ali , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Ali gets behind the line and defends This is Dale Steyn 's 100th ODI for South Africa. He led the South African team out . 0.1 Steyn to Amjad Ali , no run , fuller in length with a hint of shape away outside off , Ali goes across and shoulders arms Amjad Ali and Andri Berenger are at the crease. Amjad Ali is on strike. Steyn will open the attack Welcome back. The South African players are making their way out to the middle , followed by the UAE openers. Dale Steyn will open the bowling. Amjad Ali will be on strike first up. There are two slips in place. Here we go then.. . Miller : " Definitely it was great to be out there again. It was nice to get a partnership with AB. I am really enjoying the opportunity to bat a bit longer and set the innings up. Obviously we have played consistent cricket in the last one , one and half year. " After losing to Pakistan in their last game , the South African pacers would look to bowl with fire and aggression to skittle out the opposition for a paltry score. At the other end of the spectrum , UAE 's batsmen have a daunting task of facing up to a world-class attack . On the other hand , UAE would rue missed opportunities. Saqlain Haider missed a chance to run out Miller. Tauqir dropped a catch to give Miller another reprieve. To make it worse , Amjad dropped a caught and bowled chance as de Villiers survived. In fact , their bowlers , especially , Naveed and Tauqir gave a good account of themselves , but their fielding was a let down . David Miller too played a fine hand. He had his share of good fortune , but it was Miller , who helped de Villiers to stitch a crucial century stand. Earlier , Naveed provided the breakthrough by dismissing Amla with a short ball. Rossouw looked in good touch against the seamers , but was all at sea against the off-spinner , Mohammad Tauqir , and was dismissed by Tauqir. de Kock too did n't last long. However , de Villiers yet again came to their rescue . AB de Villiers played with sparkle and fizz to help South Africa recover after they found themselves in a tricky position and eventually , Proteas notched up a massive total. After South Africa lost the wickets of Hashim Amla , Quinton de Kock and Rilee Rossouw , de Villiers steadied their innings. He then looked to up the ante by lofting Mohammad Tauqir for a six over extra cover. In the slog overs , he clouted Mohammad Naveed for a couple of boundaries and followed it up by hoisting a juicy full toss from Amjad Javed over deep square-leg for a six. He also used the crease to keep the spinners guessing. Unfortunately for de Villiers , he was dismissed for 99. Once de Villiers was dismissed , Farhaan Behardien played a quick-fire knock . South Africa scored 40 runs in the last two overs and it has helped them go past the 340-mark . 49.6 Amjad Javed to Behardien , FOUR , top shot ! Full and around off , Behardien moves to the leg-side , gives a bit of room and tonks it inside out over extra cover , no chance for sweeper or long-off to stop that. A very expensive over to end the innings , 25 runs came off it 49.5 Amjad Javed to Behardien , FOUR , some rubbish being dished out by Javed , full toss on off and middle , Behardien swipes across the line , there was no one at deep mid-wicket and he collects one more boundary 49.4 Amjad Javed to Behardien , 2 runs , dropped ! Mustafa drops a sitter. Full and on off , Behardien does not get under it , skies it towards long-on , Mustafa settles under and looks to take the Australian way , but ends up spilling it 49.3 Amjad Javed to Behardien , SIX , Behardien brings up his 3rd ODI fifty. Length delivery around off , Behardien clears his front leg and launches it over long-on , the fielder was well inside the rope , had he been back it might have been a catch 49.3 Amjad Javed to Behardien , no ball , SIX , Javed slips out a waist high full toss , he has been warned for that as well. Behardien does extremely well to send it soaring over the backward square boundary for a maximum 49.2 Amjad Javed to Philander , 1 run , low full toss on off , Philander toe-ends the heave to long-on 49.1 Amjad Javed to Behardien , 1 run , full and outside off , Behardien drills it down to long-off , he is disappointed that he could not get more 48.6 Naveed to Behardien , 1 run , low full toss , Behardien drags it down to long-on , but he keeps strike with that single 48.5 Naveed to Behardien , SIX , terrific shot ! Full and just outside off , Behardien stays leg-side of the ball and lofts it handsomely over deep extra cover , he middled it as it sailed over the rope comfortably 48.4 Naveed to Philander , 1 run , full and on off , Philander pushes it to extra cover 48.3 Naveed to Philander , FOUR , good length ball around off , Philander swings across the line , does n't get it anywhere close to the middle , but he gets it in the gap , the ball beats the chase from the mid-on fielder 48.2 Naveed to Philander , 2 runs , good length ball just outside off , Philander opens the bat face and steers it to the right of third man , Javed tidies up in the deep 48.1 Naveed to Behardien , 1 run , full and outside off , Behardien walks across and drills it to long-on 47.6 Amjad Javed to Behardien , 1 run , full delivery on the stumps , Behardien drives it down to long-on 47.5 Amjad Javed to Philander , 1 run , high full toss , it was just below waist height , Philander tucks it to deep backward square leg. Behardien asks if it is a legal delivery , the umpire says yes 47.4 Amjad Javed to Behardien , 1 run , fuller and on off , Behardien pushes it off the inner half to long-on 47.3 Amjad Javed to Behardien , FOUR , Javed loses his line , drifts onto the pads , Behardien gets inside the line and tickles it fine , the fielder was inside the circle and he had no chance of cutting that off 47.2 Amjad Javed to Philander , 1 run , looks to force it through the off-side and the ball takes the inside part and rolls down to long-on 47.1 Amjad Javed to Behardien , 1 run , fuller and just outside off , Behardien drives it to long-off Vernon Philander , right handed bat , comes to the crease 46.6 Naveed to Duminy , out Lbw ! ! Timely wicket for UAE. Duminy could have been destructive at this stage of the innings. Naveed rewarded for keeping it full and straight. The only doubt was if it was missing the off-stump , Duminy missed the clip and was struck on the back pad. Umpire Tucker took his time before raising his finger. Hawk-Eye confirms that the on-field umpire had got it right. Duminy lbw b Naveed 23 ( 28 ) [ 4s-1 ] Naveed to Duminy , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Duminy has been given out LBW. He reviews it. Naveed is fine with the no-ball. It seems pretty good. There is no inside edge. Remember it should be missing the stumps. Even clipping wo n't help Duminy. He is hit on the back pad. Hawk-Eye shows it pitched in-line and is hitting off-stump. He is OUT ! 46.5 Naveed to Behardien , 1 run , back of a length just outside off , Behardien punches it to deep extra cover , for a single 46.4 Naveed to Behardien , FOUR , Naveed just loses his length , balls a good length ball on middle and leg , Behardien clears his leg and heaves it over mid-wicket , no one at deep mid-wicket and the ball runs away to the fence 46.3 Naveed to Behardien , 2 runs , too full and slanting in , Behardien flicks it wide of long-on and these two are quick , get back for the second 46.2 Naveed to Behardien , 2 runs , full delivery on off , Behardien lifts it over the bowler 's head , the mid-on fielder was inside the ring , Saqlain runs across from long-off and does well to keep the batsmen down to a couple 46.1 Naveed to Behardien , no run , bit of shape for Naveed at this stage of the innings , it was a back of a length just outside off , Behardien plays for the straight delivery , he pokes at it and is beaten comprehensively by the late movement Mohammad Naveed [ 8.0-0-39-2 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Amjad Javed to Duminy , 2 runs , continues round the wicket to Duminy , bowls a full toss outside off , Duminy drives it wide of long-off and the batsmen had enough time to come back for the second What happened there ? Javed slips in his run-up and goes down. But , gets up immediately and walks back to his mark . 45.5 Amjad Javed to Behardien , 1 run , another low full toss , Behardien works it to long-on 45.4 Amjad Javed to Duminy , 1 run , Javed goes round the wicket , keeps it full and outside off , Duminy drives it to sweeper cover 45.3 Amjad Javed to Behardien , 1 run , low full toss on the stumps , Behardien clips it to mid-wicket and sets off immediately , Tauqir has a shy at the bowler 's end , but Behardien had made it in 45.2 Amjad Javed to Behardien , 2 runs , drifts onto the pads , Behardien leans forward and flicks it to deep mid-wicket , Shaiman tidies up near the rope 45.1 Amjad Javed to Behardien , no run , starts with a yorker , Behardien jams it to the right of the bowler , mid-wicket comes around and fields the ball Amjad Javed [ 7.0-0-46-1 ] is back into the attack 44.6 Kamran Shazad to Duminy , no run , full and on off , Duminy clips and finds Tauqir at mid-wicket 44.5 Kamran Shazad to Behardien , 1 run , on a length outside off , Behardien eases it to sweeper cover 44.4 Kamran Shazad to Behardien , FOUR , cracking shot ! Ca n't bowl short at that pace , Behardien had all the time in the world to swivel on the back foot and pull it over mid-wicket , one bounce and into the fence 44.3 Kamran Shazad to Duminy , 1 run , pitched up just outside off , Duminy drives it towards cover , Khan dives and parries it wide of mid-off 44.2 Kamran Shazad to Behardien , 1 run , takes the pace off the ball , Behardien taps it wide of short mid-wicket , calls early for the single and gets it comfortably 44.1 Kamran Shazad to Duminy , 1 run , fuller and on off , Duminy push-drives it to mid-on , scampers across for a quick single 43.6 K Khan to Duminy , 1 run , tossed up on off , Duminy leans forward and nurdles it to square leg , for a single. A good over by the experienced Khurram Khan , just the six singles off it 43.5 K Khan to Behardien , 1 run , flighted on off , Behardien works it with soft hands in front of long-on , runs the first one hard and has to settle with it 43.4 K Khan to Duminy , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Duminy punches it down to long-on 43.3 K Khan to Behardien , 1 run , goes straight on , Behardien shuffles across and nudges it to deep mid-wicket 43.2 K Khan to Duminy , 1 run , slower and on the stumps , Duminy gets inside the line and works it to square leg 43.1 K Khan to Behardien , 1 run , fired into the blockhole , Behardien digs it out to long-on 42.6 Kamran Shazad to Behardien , 1 run , banged in halfway down wichet , Behardien forehands the pull to mid-wicket , did n't time it as well as he would have liked 42.5 Kamran Shazad to Behardien , no run , short of length on off , Behardien jumps up and fends it to the on-side 42.4 Kamran Shazad to Duminy , 1 run , strays onto the pads , Duminy nurdles it to fine leg , for a single 42.3 Kamran Shazad to Behardien , 3 runs , poor first delivery from Shazad , full toss on the stumps , Behardien punches it straight down the ground , the duo get back for three before the ball is hunted down by the mid-on fielder Farhaan Behardien , right handed bat , comes to the crease 42.2 Kamran Shazad to de Villiers , out Caught by Amjad Javed ! ! Heartbreak ! The crowd ca n't believe what just happened. Kids in the crowd are showing their disappointment as they have their hands on their head. ABD falls one short of his 21st ODI ton. He walks away with a wry smile on his face. The UAE players are delighted. They know how important this wicket is and that too at this stage of the game. It was full and outside off , de Villiers opens the bat face and slices it to short third man , Javed remains calm and takes it easily. It is the 4th time that ABD has got out in the 90s in ODIs. de Villiers c Amjad Javed b Kamran Shazad 99 ( 82 ) [ 4s-6 6s-4 ] Kamran Shazad to de Villiers , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 42.1 Kamran Shazad to Duminy , 1 run , takes the pace off the ball , Duminy nurdles it to backward square leg and gives the strike back to ABD 41.6 K Khan to de Villiers , no run , floated up around off , de Villiers drives , the cover fielder dives and sees that ABD remains on 99 41.5 K Khan to de Villiers , SIX , fantastic shot ! ABD showing his range. Shuffles across the stumps , kneels down and slog sweeps it over deep mid-wicket , he did n't middle it but had enough to clear the rope 41.4 K Khan to Duminy , 1 run , tossed up on middle , Duminy leans forward and milks it to backward square leg 41.3 K Khan to de Villiers , 1 run , slightly short and outside off , de Villiers walks around in the crease and cuts it to sweeper cover 41.2 K Khan to Duminy , 1 run , nudges it with the turn to deep square leg , ABD back on strike 41.1 K Khan to de Villiers , 1 run , floated up on off , de Villiers drives it to long-off Khurram Khan [ 2.0-0-15-0 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Kamran Shazad to Duminy , FOUR , that spoils what was looking as a good over. Pitched up outside off , Duminy drives it through the diving cover , no chance for the sweeper to get around and stop the ball. That should get Duminy going 40.5 Kamran Shazad to Duminy , no run , stifled appeal for lbw , but there was a clear inside edge. Good length ball that straightens a touch , Duminy tries the flick through the on-side , the inside edge thuds into the pads 40.4 Kamran Shazad to de Villiers , 1 run , angling in on off and middle , de Villiers eases it to long-on 40.3 Kamran Shazad to de Villiers , no run , fuller and around off , de Villiers drives it back to the bowler , Shazad jumps and stops the ball 40.2 Kamran Shazad to Duminy , 1 run , fuller and just outside off , Duminy knocks it to mid-off and sets off. The fielder runs forward and fails to collect the ball. It was Saqlain , who could not gather the ball with the gloves as well 40.1 Kamran Shazad to Duminy , no run , on a length close to off , Duminy pushes it gently to cover Kamran Shazad [ 5.0-0-39-0 ] is back into the attack The batting powerplay produced 42/1 39.6 Amjad Javed to Duminy , 1 run , short of length on off , Duminy glides it to third man with an angled bat 39.5 Amjad Javed to de Villiers , 1 run , that is a better length from Javed , too full and on the stumps , de Villiers squeezes it off the inside part behind square on the leg-side 39.4 Amjad Javed to de Villiers , FOUR , crunched ! Fuller and outside off , de Villiers clears his front leg and drills it in the air , but placed it right between extra cover and mid-off. The ball scooted away to the fence 39.3 Amjad Javed to Duminy , 1 run , sensible batting by Duminy , steers it down to third man and hands the strike back to ABD 39.2 Amjad Javed to de Villiers , 1 run , full and angling in , de Villiers goes for the heave , the ball squirts off the inside edge to backward square leg 39.1 Amjad Javed to de Villiers , SIX , just over the fielder ! Javed delivers a nice juicy full toss on leg-stump , de Villiers hoicks it towards deep square , the fielder thought he had a chance , but the ball had enough to clear him. A very short six by ABD , just 66 metres 38.6 Naveed to de Villiers , 1 run , shortens the length around off , de Villiers slaps it towards cover-point , the fielder dives to his left and saves a certain boundary 38.5 Naveed to de Villiers , FOUR , Naveed drags the length back , de Villiers stays on the leg-side and flays it over backward point. By not moving , he provided himself room to free his arms. That is a top shot ! 38.4 Naveed to de Villiers , FOUR , drilled ! Pitched up on off , de Villiers clears his front leg , presents a straight bat and hammers it straight back over the bowler 's head , Naveed tried to get his hand up to catch , but the ball had already passed him 38.3 Naveed to Duminy , 1 run , on a length close to off , Duminy tucks it to the right of mid-wicket 38.2 Naveed to Duminy , no run , fullish and around off , Duminy drives it to cover , picks out the fielder 38.1 Naveed to Duminy , no run , good length ball just outside off , Duminy pushes it to cover-point 37.6 Amjad Javed to de Villiers , SIX , there he goes ! Dropped the previous ball and the next ball is into the stands. Length delivery right in the slot , de Villiers gets across the line and heaves it over the deep mid-wicket fence for a maximum 37.5 Amjad Javed to de Villiers , no run , dropped ! How much is that going to cost ? Though it was a return catch , Javed took it too casually. Full and on the stumps , de Villiers drives it in the air and to the left of the bowler , Javed had enough time to react , but still went with one hand , the ball hits it and deflects towards cover 37.4 Amjad Javed to Duminy , 1 run , slanted across off , Duminy opens the bat face and steers it to third man Goes back over the wicket for Duminy ! 37.3 Amjad Javed to de Villiers , 1 run , pitched up on middle , de Villiers drives it back to the bowler , he gets a boot and parries it towards mid-off 37.2 Amjad Javed to Duminy , 1 run , Javed goes round the wicket , keeps it on a length , Duminy drops it in front of cover and takes off for a quick single , good response from ABD as well 37.1 Amjad Javed to de Villiers , 1 run , back of a length on the stumps , de Villiers punches it down to long-on Amjad Javed [ 5.0-0-22-1 ] is back into the attack 36.6 Naveed to Duminy , no run , fuller and just outside off , Duminy pushes it to cover There is a change of keeper for UAE. Swapnil Patil , their regular keeper has taken the gloves back from Saqlain Haider . 36.5 Naveed to de Villiers , 1 run , short of length close to off , de Villiers runs it down to third man with an open bat face 36.4 Naveed to Duminy , 1 run , slanted across Duminy , dabbed down to third man A slip comes in for the new batsman 36.3 Naveed to Duminy , no run , short of length around off , Duminy taps it in front of backward point 36.2 Naveed to Duminy , no run , pushed across the left-hander , Duminy lifts his bat and lets it go Jean-Paul Duminy , left handed bat , comes to the crease 36.1 Naveed to D Miller , out Bowled ! ! Huge wicket for UAE ! That too in the batting powerplay. Miller is not happy with himself as he walks back to the pavilion. Back of a length around off , Miller stays in the crease , goes for the pull , the inside edge crashes into middle-stump. It was not short enough to play the pull. D Miller b Naveed 49 ( 48 ) [ 4s-2 ] Naveed to D Miller , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 36.1 Naveed to D Miller , wide , starts his new spell with a wayward delivery , yorker which is well wide of off , Miller ca n't reach it , wide given Mohammad Naveed [ 6.0-0-26-1 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Shaiman Anwar to D Miller , 1 run , " catch " was the shout from some of the UAE fielders , but the ball landed well in front of the fielder. Miller goes down on one knee and top-edges the sweep , the fielder from deep square runs forward and the ball lands quite a few yards in front of him 35.5 Shaiman Anwar to de Villiers , 1 run , presents the full face and drives it to long-on 35.4 Shaiman Anwar to D Miller , 1 run , tossed up gently outside off , Miller drives it to long-off 35.3 Shaiman Anwar to de Villiers , 1 run , flighted on off , de Villiers eases it to long-on Shaiman Anwar , right-arm off spinner , comes into the attack The players gather around Alhashmi as he lies on the ground. The physio is also out there. He moved to his left and tried to stop the ball , while trying to do that , he twisted his right knee. He is being helped off the ground. That is bad news for UAE as he was bowling well. He was not able to walk even though he was being helped by his mates. So , a ground ambulance takes him away. Shaiman Anwar to complete the over. . 35.2 Alhashmi to de Villiers , no run , what happened there ? Alhashmi is down on the ground and wriggling in pain. Back of a length , de Villiers punches and hits it straight to mid-off 35.1 Alhashmi to D Miller , 1 run , hint of shape away , Miller comes forward and drives it to long-off The batting powerplay has been enforced. . 34.6 K Khan to D Miller , 1 run , skips out of the crease and drives it to long-on 34.5 K Khan to de Villiers , 1 run , pushes it down the ground to long-on 34.4 K Khan to D Miller , 1 run , that is the 100-run stand between these two. Miller eases it to long-on for a single 34.3 K Khan to de Villiers , 1 run , pushed through on middle , de Villiers knocks it to long-on 34.2 K Khan to D Miller , 1 run , flatter and on off , Miller punches it to long-on 34.1 K Khan to de Villiers , 1 run , flighted on middle and leg , de Villiers eases it past the diving mid-wicket fielder 33.6 Alhashmi to de Villiers , 1 run , drifts onto the pads , de Villiers tucks it to deep square leg , retains strike 33.5 Alhashmi to D Miller , 1 run , low full toss on off , Miller drills it down to long-off 33.4 Alhashmi to de Villiers , 1 run , presents the straight bat and knocks it to long-on 33.3 Alhashmi to de Villiers , no run , mistimes the punch back to the bowler 33.2 Alhashmi to de Villiers , FOUR , another fifty for ABD , the run-machine keeps going and going. It is his 45th in ODIs. Alhashmi goes too straight , on middle and leg , de Villiers shuffles across and flicks it through backward square , the fielder was inside the ring and he came second while trying to chase the ball 33.1 Alhashmi to de Villiers , no run , back of a length outside off , de Villiers walks across his stumps and toe-ends the punch to cover It could have been worse , but Saqlain Haider , the wicket-keeper , missed a run out chance and David Miller survived. In fact , Haider has been poor behind the stumps. Miller survived another chance as he was dropped by Tauqir off Fahad Alhashmi. It was South Africa 's captain , AB de Villiers , who calmed down the nerves in the South African camp by playing an inside-out shot to smash Tauqir for a six . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the last 17 overs : Mohammad Tauqir continued to trouble Rilee Rossouw and snaffled his wicket. Rossouw looked all at sea against Tauqir. Tauqir was getting a bit of drift , but Rossouw looked out of his depth against deliveries that just went straight on and gave a simple caught and bowled chance to the off-spinner and was dismissed. Rossouw is n't exactly known for his ability to play spin well . Time for the drinks break . 32.6 K Khan to de Villiers , 1 run , makes a bit of room and looks to go inside out , hits it a lot straighter and to long-off 32.5 K Khan to D Miller , 1 run , works it with the turn to long-on , they thought about two , but decided against it 32.4 K Khan to de Villiers , 1 run , floated up on off , de Villiers drives it to long-off 32.3 K Khan to D Miller , 1 run , takes a couple of steps down the wicket and nudges it to deep square leg 32.2 K Khan to de Villiers , 1 run , goes on with the angle from round the wicket , de Villiers tucks it in front of square on the leg-side 32.1 K Khan to de Villiers , FOUR , fabulous shot ! It was not all that short , but that is the class of ABD. He makes a slight shuffle back and punches it past the diving cover-point fielder , no one at sweeper to stop the boundary Khurram Khan , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 31.6 Alhashmi to D Miller , FOUR , Alhashmi once again loses his radar. He watches the ball reach the fence. It was on leg-stump , Miller tucks it behind square , the timing on that takes it away from the chasing fielder 31.5 Alhashmi to D Miller , no run , too full and on the stumps , Miller squeezes it out in front of cover 31.4 Alhashmi to D Miller , no run , pitched up outside off , Miller middles the drive , but picks out Tauqir at cover , he fields the ball and shakes his hand in pain. That was hit hard and would have stung 31.3 Alhashmi to de Villiers , 1 run , fuller and just outside off , de Villiers eases the drive to long-off 31.2 Alhashmi to de Villiers , no run , angled in around off , de Villiers ' bottom hand comes off as he looks to force it through the off-side , the ball goes to short mid-wicket 31.1 Alhashmi to de Villiers , FOUR , Alhashmi gets his line wrong , drifts it onto the pads , de Villiers just had to get some wood on it , he got enough for the ball to beat the short fine fielder and race away to the fence 30.6 M Tauqir to de Villiers , 1 run , punched off the back foot to long-on 30.5 M Tauqir to D Miller , 1 run , goes back and plays the short-arm pull to long-on 30.4 M Tauqir to D Miller , no run , turns it to short mid-wicket 30.3 M Tauqir to D Miller , 2 runs , that is terrific running , he taps it gently in front of long-off and hares back for the second 30.2 M Tauqir to D Miller , FOUR , lovely shot ! Sweep against the turn is difficult , but Miller made it look easy. Flight on middle , Miller kneels down and sweeps it in the air over square leg , no chance for deep mid-wicket to get around and stop the boundary 30.1 M Tauqir to de Villiers , 1 run , turning into the pads , de Villiers milks it to deep square leg 29.6 Alhashmi to de Villiers , 3 runs , nice floaty delivery outside off , de Villiers walks across his stumps , reaches out and drives it to deep extra cover , the fielder from sweeper gets across , slides and saves a run for the team 29.5 Alhashmi to de Villiers , no run , back of a length well wide of off , de Villiers shuffles across and mistimes the punch back to the bowler 29.4 Alhashmi to D Miller , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Miller drives it to long-off 29.3 Alhashmi to D Miller , no run , on middle and leg , Miller leans forward and turns it to square leg 29.2 Alhashmi to D Miller , no run , half volley around off , Miller drills it down the ground , Alhashmi sticks out his left boot and stops the ball 29.1 Alhashmi to D Miller , no run , wicket-to-wicket , Miller presses forward and blocks it to the off-side 29.1 Alhashmi to D Miller , wide , darted down the leg-side , Miller ca n't connect with the glance , good take by the keeper standing up to the stumps , he had to dive to his right 28.6 M Tauqir to de Villiers , no run , tossed up on off , de Villiers drives it back to the bowler There seems to be some issue as ABD walks up to umpire Tucker and has a word. He was not happy with something , but not sure what it was about 28.5 M Tauqir to de Villiers , no run , flighted on off , de Villiers knocks it back to the bowler 28.4 M Tauqir to de Villiers , no run , uses the depth of the crease , converts it into a short of length delivery and cuts it to cover 28.3 M Tauqir to D Miller , 1 run , skips out of the crease , meets the pitch of the ball and eases it to long-on 28.2 M Tauqir to de Villiers , 1 run , gets to the pitch of the ball and drives it to long-on 28.1 M Tauqir to D Miller , 1 run , goes on with the arm from round the wicket , Miller plays for the turn and the ball squirts off the inside edge to the left of mid-wicket 27.6 Alhashmi to de Villiers , no run , fuller and outside off , de Villiers drives and finds cover 27.5 Alhashmi to de Villiers , no run , change of pace once again , de Villiers watches it carefully and knocks it in front of short mid-wicket 27.4 Alhashmi to D Miller , 3 runs , straying onto the pads , Miller leans forward and flicks it to deep mid-wicket , the batsmen almost collided while going for the third run , but they managed to get to their respective ends in time 27.3 Alhashmi to de Villiers , 1 run , punched to sweeper cover 27.2 Alhashmi to D Miller , 1 run , closes the bat face early and the leading edge rolls down to long-off 27.1 Alhashmi to D Miller , 2 runs , dropped ! Miller still riding his luck. It was a relatively easy chance at this level. Pitched up just outside off , Miller is not fully forward as he drives it in the air to cover , Tauqir goes with his left hand and parries it to long-off. He should have gone with two hands , but he was slow to react 26.6 M Tauqir to de Villiers , no run , tossed up delivery , de Villiers push-drives it back to the bowler 26.5 M Tauqir to D Miller , 1 run , flatter and outside off , Miller goes back and punches it to sweeper cover 26.4 M Tauqir to de Villiers , 1 run , slower and just outside off , de Villiers eases the drive to long-on 26.3 M Tauqir to D Miller , 1 run , quicker and drifting in , Miller nurdles it behind square leg for a run 26.2 M Tauqir to de Villiers , 1 run , turning into the pads , worked away to deep square leg 26.1 M Tauqir to D Miller , 1 run , drops it short and outside off , Miller cracks the cut to sweeper cover 25.6 Alhashmi to de Villiers , no run , good length ball just outside off , de Villiers mishits the drive to the left of the bowler 25.5 Alhashmi to de Villiers , no run , de Villiers drives and picks out the fielder at cover 25.4 Alhashmi to D Miller , 1 run , fuller and on the stumps , Miller pushes it to mid-on and sets off immediately 25.3 Alhashmi to de Villiers , 1 run , takes the pace off the ball , de Villiers drops it to the off-side and sprints across for a quick single 25.2 Alhashmi to D Miller , 1 run , too straight , on middle and leg , Miller tucks it square of the wicket on the leg-side 25.1 Alhashmi to de Villiers , 1 run , fraction short and outside off , de Villiers cuts it to sweeper cover 24.6 M Tauqir to de Villiers , 1 run , drifting on middle and leg , de Villiers clips it to deep square leg and this time he is content with a single 24.5 M Tauqir to D Miller , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Miller punches it down to long-on 24.4 M Tauqir to de Villiers , 1 run , pushed through on middle , de Villiers eases it down to long-on for a single 24.3 M Tauqir to de Villiers , no run , tossed up on off , de Villiers drives it back to the bowler 24.2 M Tauqir to de Villiers , 2 runs , floated up on middle stump line , de Villiers works it towards deep square leg , the fielder from deep backward square leg runs across to his left , but ca n't prevent the batsmen from taking the second run 24.1 M Tauqir to D Miller , 1 run , slower and flatter outside off , Miller rocks back and cuts it hard , but picks out sweeper cover in the deep 23.6 Alhashmi to D Miller , 1 run , full delivery outside off , Miller drives it to long-off and he will keep the strike 23.5 Alhashmi to de Villiers , 1 run , length delivery just outside off , de Villiers pushes it towards cover with soft hands , the batsmen pinch a single 23.4 Alhashmi to de Villiers , no run , good ball from Alhashmi , it was the slower one around off , de Villiers goes for the drive , gets an inside edge onto the pad 23.3 Alhashmi to de Villiers , 2 runs , length delivery shaping back in from outside off , de Villiers goes across and paddle sweeps it behind square on the on-side , the fielder from deep square leg runs across to his left and keeps them down to a couple 23.2 Alhashmi to de Villiers , no run , angling in on off and middle , de Villiers squeezes out the clip to mid-wicket 23.1 Alhashmi to D Miller , 1 run , touch fuller and angled across off , Miller drives it to long-off The keeper is up to the stumps for Alhashmi 22.6 M Tauqir to de Villiers , no run , tossed up on off , de Villiers pushes it back to the bowler 22.5 M Tauqir to de Villiers , no run , floated up on middle , de Villiers drills it back to the bowler , who dives to his right and parries towards the mid-wicket fielder who was running across to his left 22.4 M Tauqir to de Villiers , no run , great fielding at backward point , it was short and well outside off , de Villiers rocks back and cuts it hard to the left of backward point , who dives and stops a certain boundary 22.3 M Tauqir to D Miller , 1 run , gives the charge this time and bunts it down to long-on for a single 22.2 M Tauqir to de Villiers , 1 run , eases this flighted delivery down to long-off for a single 22.1 M Tauqir to de Villiers , SIX , tossed up outside off , de Villiers leans forward and goes inside-out over cover , he manages to clear the deep extra cover fence , first maximum of the innings , a guy in the crowd drops a million New Zealand dollars 21.6 Alhashmi to D Miller , 2 runs , drives this fullish delivery to the left of long-off and good running ensures that the batsmen come back for the second 21.5 Alhashmi to de Villiers , 1 run , slower ball from Alhashmi , de Villiers was early into the push and ends up chipping it to the left of the bowler , de Villiers was not in control of that but luckily for him , the ball rolls away to long-off 21.4 Alhashmi to D Miller , 1 run , shuffles across and works this fullish delivery on the pads to deep square leg 21.3 Alhashmi to de Villiers , 1 run , drops his wrists on it and pushes it towards cover-point , the batsmen pinch a quick run 21.2 Alhashmi to de Villiers , no run , loud shout for lbw ! But umpire Davis is not convinced. It was the slower ball from Alhashmi , de Villiers was forward as he was pushing at it , the ball beats the inside edge and de Villiers was rapped on the pads , that looked very close and UAE do n't go for the review either. Lucky break for de Villiers as Hawk-Eye shows that the ball was just clipping the outside half of the leg stump 21.1 Alhashmi to de Villiers , 2 runs , angling in on the pads , de Villiers clips it behind square on the on-side for a couple Fahad Alhashmi , comes into the attack 20.6 M Tauqir to D Miller , no run , it was quicker and on off , Miller pushes it in front of cover and sets off , but the ball was too close to the fielder , who was quick to pick it up and fires in the throw at the striker 's end. Miller was halfway down the track and was struggling to make his ground there , he slipped as well while turning back. However , the keeper makes a mess of the throw as he could n't collect it cleanly , allowing Miller to reach the crease by the time he is able to disturb the stumps. An opportunity for a wicket goes begging . The third umpire has been pressed into service to judge a run-out chance. But , Miller makes it in time. Not Out is displayed on the big screen 20.5 M Tauqir to de Villiers , 1 run , eases this flighted delivery down to long-off to get off strike 20.4 M Tauqir to D Miller , 1 run , drifting on middle and leg , Miller works it to deep square leg for a single 20.3 M Tauqir to de Villiers , 1 run , slower and on off and middle , de Villiers goes across and eases it down to long-on 20.2 M Tauqir to D Miller , 1 run , flighted delivery on off , Miller drops it in front of cover and sets off , the fielder was a little slow to run forward and pick up the ball , de Villiers and Miller are too fast for him to effect a run-out there , they reach their ends comfortably 20.1 M Tauqir to D Miller , no run , floated up just outside off , Miller leans forward and pushes it towards cover 19.6 Amjad Javed to D Miller , 3 runs , length delivery on middle stump line , Miller goes across and clips this through mid-wicket , the mid-wicket fielder gives chase and hauls the ball back in just before the rope , saves a single for his team 19.5 Amjad Javed to D Miller , no run , angling away outside off , Miller punches it towards cover 19.4 Amjad Javed to D Miller , no run , on a good length and on off , Miller defends it towards cover off the front foot , shouts a loud 'no ' for the single 19.3 Amjad Javed to de Villiers , 1 run , angling in on the pads , de Villiers works it behind square for a single 19.2 Amjad Javed to de Villiers , no run , just short of a good length and on off , de Villiers gets behind the line and blocks A slip is in place for de Villiers 19.1 Amjad Javed to D Miller , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Miller forces it to sweeper cover off the back foot , the batsmen take a single , 100 up for South Africa 18.6 M Tauqir to de Villiers , no run , tossed up outside off , de Villiers drives it to cover-point 18.5 M Tauqir to de Villiers , 2 runs , drifting on the pads , it was a full toss from Tauqir , de Villiers clips it to deep mid-wicket for a couple 18.4 M Tauqir to D Miller , 1 run , flatter from Tauqir , Miller drops it in front of cover-point and sets off , completes the single easily in the end 18.3 M Tauqir to D Miller , no run , flighted delivery on off , Miller defends off the front foot David Miller , left handed bat , comes to the crease 18.2 M Tauqir to Rossouw , out Caught&Bowled ! ! Tauqir takes a wicket and he deserves this one. He slows this one on off , Rossouw was early into the drive and checks his shot at the last moment , ends up chipping it straight towards the bowler , who takes it above his head. It is a soft , soft dismissal for Rossouw , who was looking in great touch. Tauqir is delighted to get his man here. Consistent good bowling has paid dividends. Rossouw c and b M Tauqir 43 ( 49 ) [ 4s-8 ] M Tauqir to Rossouw , THATS OUT ! ! Caught&Bowled ! ! 18.1 M Tauqir to de Villiers , 1 run , floated up on off and middle , de Villiers works it through mid-wicket for a single 17.6 Amjad Javed to Rossouw , no run , length ball outside off stump , pushed to cover 17.5 Amjad Javed to de Villiers , 1 run , this time de Villiers easily works it away to deep square leg 17.4 Amjad Javed to Rossouw , 1 run , full and outside off stump , sliced uppishly to sweeper cover 17.3 Amjad Javed to Rossouw , no run , back of a length , defended with an open face 17.3 Amjad Javed to Rossouw , no run , outside off stump , left alone 17.2 Amjad Javed to Rossouw , wide , short of length delivery angling away from the left-hander , Rossouw slashes and misses 17.1 Amjad Javed to Rossouw , FOUR , overpitched and crashed through cover. Rossouw leans forward and smashes it along the ground , the man at sweeper had no chance 16.6 M Tauqir to de Villiers , no run , flighted delivery around off , de Villiers goes across a little and turns it to mid-wicket 16.5 M Tauqir to Rossouw , 1 run , drifts this one on middle stump line , Rossouw bunts it down to long-on and gets off strike 16.4 M Tauqir to de Villiers , 1 run , tossed up outside off , de Villiers leans forward and eases it down to long-off 16.3 M Tauqir to Rossouw , 1 run , touch quicker and on off , Rossouw works it towards mid-wicket , who dives to his right , gets a hand on it but ca n't stop it completely , the batsmen take a single 16.2 M Tauqir to Rossouw , no run , slows this one on middle , Rossouw turns it towards mid-wicket 16.1 M Tauqir to Rossouw , no run , flighted delivery on middle stump line , Rossouw works it towards short mid-wicket AB de Villiers , right handed bat , comes to the crease It was Rilee Rossouw , who took advantage of a couple of short deliveries to give South Africa the impetus after they lost the wicket of Amla. He also essayed fine shots down the ground off Kamran Shahzad. On the other hand , the out of form , Quinton de Kock , struggled to make an impact , before he thumped Shazad for a few boundaries. de Kock certainly likes to free his arms and hit on the up. For UAE , Mohammad Tauqir with subtle variations of drift troubled the batsmen. It was Amjad Javed , who then dismissed de Kock . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the first 16 overs : Mohammad Naveed made the crucial breakthrough by snaring the wicket of Hashim Amla. Amla , in an attempt to force the issue , tried to play a pull shot. However , Naveed proved his worth by bowling it outside the off-stump , and that resulted in Amla getting a leading edge and was dismissed. Naveed flicks his wrist and can surprise the batsman for a bit of pace . Drinks are on the field now 15.6 Amjad Javed to de Kock , out Caught by Saqlain Haider ! ! de Kock goes once again , but this time he got a start. This is his highest score of the World Cup. It was on a good length and angling away outside off , de Kock was deceived by the slowness of the ball as he went for the drive , he ends up pushing at it and gets an outside edge that the keeper pouches easily. The bowler and the keeper went immediately for the appeal , but umpire Davis gave it not out. Captain Tauqir was animated and reviewed immediately after consulting with his bowler and the keeper. de Kock c Saqlain Haider b Amjad Javed 26 ( 45 ) [ 4s-2 ] Amjad Javed to de Kock , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! UAE have decided to go for a review for a caught behind appeal. There is a sound as the ball goes past the bat. Snicko shows that there is a spike as the ball goes past the bat. Umpire Davis will have to overturn his decision. de Kock has been given his marching orders 15.5 Amjad Javed to de Kock , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , de Kock drops his wrists on it , was looking for the single there , but it is not there as the fielder was quick to reach the ball 15.4 Amjad Javed to Rossouw , 1 run , on the leg stump , worked away through mid-wicket 15.3 Amjad Javed to de Kock , 1 run , stays leg-side and cuts the short of length delivery to point 15.2 Amjad Javed to de Kock , no run , full and outside off stump , driven to mid-off 15.1 Amjad Javed to Rossouw , 1 run , good length delivery outside off stump , Rossouw drives it to sweeper cover 14.6 M Tauqir to de Kock , no run , down the track once aain , he defends this delivery on the stumps back to the bowler , who misfields a little , but does n't allow the single 14.5 M Tauqir to de Kock , 2 runs , gives the charge this time and wrists this tossed up delivery wide of long-on for a couple 14.4 M Tauqir to Rossouw , 1 run , drives this flighted delivery off the inside half of the bat straight down the ground , the batsmen cross over 14.3 M Tauqir to Rossouw , no run , tossed up just outside off , Rossouw drives it towards the right of the bowler , who dives and stops the ball 14.2 M Tauqir to de Kock , 1 run , touch quicker and on off and middle , de Kock pushes at it , the ball goes off the inside half of the bat and rolls away towards backward square leg 14.1 M Tauqir to de Kock , byes , FOUR , another great ball from Tauqir , he slows this one up again and gets it to turn back in towards the batsman , who was pushing at it , the ball beats the inside edge , goes over the stumps and the keeper ca n't collect it either , the ball runs away for four byes , this is just too good for the batsmen 13.6 Amjad Javed to Rossouw , FOUR , what happened there ? It was banged in short and around off , Rossouw goes for the pull and gets a top-edge that was running away towards the third man fence , Shazad was a little square at the third man fence , he tries to slide in and pull the ball back , his left knee gets stuck in the turf and the ball goes past him , he looked in some pain after that but gets up a few seconds later. The bowler is livid with the fielder 13.5 Amjad Javed to Rossouw , no run , fuller and on off and middle , Rossouw drives it towards mid-off , he was looking for the single there , but it is not there 13.4 Amjad Javed to Rossouw , no run , length delivery on middle stump line , Rossouw defends it back to the bowler 13.3 Amjad Javed to Rossouw , no run , touch straighter in line , Rossouw stays back and works it to mid-on 13.2 Amjad Javed to Rossouw , no run , angling away just outside off , Rossouw lifts his bat and lets it go 13.1 Amjad Javed to de Kock , 1 run , on the pads this time , de Kock clips it to deep square leg 12.6 M Tauqir to Rossouw , no run , lunges forward in defence to this flighted delivery just around off 12.5 M Tauqir to Rossouw , no run , floated up on off , Rossouw defends off the front foot 12.4 M Tauqir to Rossouw , no run , beauty ! Another one that drifts in from outside off , Rossouw fails to connect with it , the ball beats the inside edge and goes towards the keeper off the pad , Rossouw did n't have an idea about the ball 12.3 M Tauqir to Rossouw , no run , flatter delivery outside off , Rossouw looks to cut , but ends up mistiming it to cover 12.3 M Tauqir to Rossouw , wide , down the leg-side this time , Rossouw fails to connect with the clip , given as a wide 12.2 M Tauqir to Rossouw , no run , flighted delivery on off , Rossouw defends it off the front foot 12.1 M Tauqir to Rossouw , no run , Tauqir starts off with a gem , it was drifting in from outside off , it turns just a little as Rossouw was trying to push at it , the ball beats everything , Rossouw 's inside edge , the stumps and the keeper also fails to stop it cleanly Mohammad Tauqir , comes into the attack 11.6 Amjad Javed to Rossouw , leg byes , 1 run , angling into the pads , Rossouw fails to nurdle it into the on-side , the batsmen sneak in a leg bye as the ball rolls away into the on-side off the pad 11.5 Amjad Javed to Rossouw , no run , on a good length and on middle , Rossouw works it towards mid-wicket 11.4 Amjad Javed to Rossouw , no run , full and angling away just outside off , Rossouw watches it closely and lets it pass 11.3 Amjad Javed to de Kock , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , de Kock drops it into the off-side and sets off , the single brings up the 50-run stand between these two 11.2 Amjad Javed to de Kock , no run , fuller and just outside off , de Kock goes across and looks to drive , the ball rolls off the inside half of the bat towards the bowler 11.2 Amjad Javed to de Kock , wide , down the leg-side , the umpire calls it a wide as de Kock fails to connect with the glance 11.1 Amjad Javed to de Kock , no run , slower one well outside off , de Kock shuffles across and was early into the push , gets an inside edge that rolls back towards the bowler Amjad Javed , right-arm medium , comes into the attack First change in bowling as Amjad Javed replaces Shazad 10.6 Naveed to de Kock , 1 run , angled across off , de Kock stays back and drops this in front of cover for a single 10.5 Naveed to de Kock , no run , angling away outside off , de Kock has a waft at it , the ball beats the blade and goes through to the keeper 10.4 Naveed to de Kock , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , de Kock looks to guide it down to third man , but ca n't get it past backward point , who threatened to throw it at the striker 's end and de Kock has to rush back 10.3 Naveed to de Kock , 2 runs , short again from Naveed , de Kock pulls it through mid-wicket for a brace 10.2 Naveed to de Kock , no run , length delivery around off , de Kock punches it off the inside half of the bat to mid-on 10.1 Naveed to Rossouw , 1 run , back of a length delivery angled across off , Rossouw goes for the pull , gets an inside edge onto the box , he was in some pain straightaway , de Kock was hurrying across the pitch for the single , but Rossouw was a little slow to get off the block , the fielder from backward point runs across to try and effect a run-out , but fails to pick the ball at the first place , de Kock makes it easily in the end 9.6 Kamran Shazad to de Kock , no run , just short of a good length and on off , de Kock defends solidly 9.5 Kamran Shazad to de Kock , no run , on middle and leg , de Kock shuffles across and turns it into the on-side 9.4 Kamran Shazad to de Kock , FOUR , finally , after missing out on two free-hits , de Kock finally sends one to the fence , Shazad was trying to bowl in the blockhole , but ends up dishing out a low full toss , de Kock goes across and clips it to the deep mid-wicket fence Free-hit coming up 9.4 Kamran Shazad to de Kock , no ball , Shazad oversteps this time around , he bangs it in short and down the leg-side , de Kock leaves and the umpire signals a no-ball 9.3 Kamran Shazad to de Kock , no run , length delivery just outside off , de Kock goes across slightly and pushes it to mid-on 9.2 Kamran Shazad to de Kock , FOUR , that 's the de Kock we knew , a delightful cover-drive , it was fuller and outside off , de Kock leans forward and drives it to the deep extra cover fence 9.1 Kamran Shazad to de Kock , no run , length delivery angled across off , de Kock checks his punch and the ball rolls away past the bowler and towards mid-on , who moves to his right and stops the ball 9.1 Kamran Shazad to de Kock , no run, 8.6 Naveed to Rossouw , no run , fuller delivery angling away just outside off , Rossouw puts his front foot forward and shoulders arms 8.5 Naveed to de Kock , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , de Kock punches it towards the cover-point region for a single 8.4 Naveed to de Kock , no run , just short of a good length and on the stumps , de Kock defends it into the off-side with a straight bat 8.3 Naveed to de Kock , no run , back of a length delivery angling away outside off , de Kock was in two minds whether to go across and work it through the on-side , but closes the bat a face a little too early , the ball rolls away into the off-side off the outside half of the bat 8.2 Naveed to de Kock , no run , touch fuller this time from Naveed , de Kock pushes it to short cover off the front foot 8.1 Naveed to de Kock , no run , back of a length delivery on off , de Kock looks to force it through the off-side , gets an inside edge onto the pad and the ball bounces back over the wicket 7.6 Kamran Shazad to Rossouw , no run , back of a length delivery on top of off , Rossouw gets behind the line and defends it towards cover 7.5 Kamran Shazad to Rossouw , no run , angling away outside off , Rossouw lifts his bat and lets it go 7.4 Kamran Shazad to Rossouw , FOUR , Rossouw is looking in amazing touch , Shazad is not learning his lessons , keeps banging it short. At his pace , these are freebies for the batsmen , Rossouw rocks back and muscles the pull to the deep mid-wicket fence , that was done with ease from Rossouw 7.3 Kamran Shazad to Rossouw , no run , just short of a good length and well outside off , Rossouw goes across a touch and punches it to mid-off 7.2 Kamran Shazad to Rossouw , FOUR , great shot ! It was a back of a length delivery outside off , Rossouw stays back and punches it straight back past the bowler , the ball rockets away to the fence 7.1 Kamran Shazad to de Kock , 1 run , short delivery angling away outside off , de Kock rocks back and drags the pull behind square for a single 6.6 Naveed to Rossouw , no run , fullish delivery just around off , Rossouw drills the drive straight to mid-off 6.5 Naveed to Rossouw , no run , length delivery just outside off , Rossouw stays inside the crease and punches it towards cover 6.4 Naveed to de Kock , 1 run , just short of a good length and angling away outside off , de Kock opens the face of the bat and guides it towards third man for a single 6.3 Naveed to de Kock , no run , angled across off , de Kock moves across and tucks it away towards mid-wicket 6.2 Naveed to de Kock , no run , good length delivery on off , de Kock defends it and the ball bounces back over the track , both batsmen were outside their crease in search of the single , but the bowler was quick to get across and both of them have to rush back in 6.1 Naveed to de Kock , no run , length delivery just outside off , de Kock opens the face of the bat and pushes it into the off-side 5.6 Kamran Shazad to Rossouw , no run , banged in short and outside off , Rossouw mistimes the pull to short mid-wicket 5.5 Kamran Shazad to Rossouw , FOUR , even better shot from Rossouw ! It was a low full toss around off , Rossouw drills it straight down the ground and there was no way anyone could have stopped that from crashing into the fence 5.4 Kamran Shazad to Rossouw , FOUR , in the blockhole , Rossouw jams out the drive past the bowler and the ball runs away to the fence , the fielder at mid-on had no chance of cutting that off 5.3 Kamran Shazad to Rossouw , 2 runs , that 's very poor from UAE ! It was angled across off , Rossouw shuffles across and tucks it away past a diving short mid-wicket , the mid-on fielder was running to his left to try and back it up , but he fumbles as well , allowing the batsmen to take two in the end 5.2 Kamran Shazad to Rossouw , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Rossouw opens the face of the bat and pushes it towards backward point from the crease 5.1 Kamran Shazad to Rossouw , no run , angles this one away outside off , Rossouw punches , but picks out extra cover 4.6 Naveed to Rossouw , 1 run , length delivery just outside off , Rossouw pushes at it with laden feet , gets an inside edge that rolls away behind square on the on-side , he will keep the strike 4.5 Naveed to Rossouw , no run , on a good length and angled across off , Rossouw defends it into the off-side 4.4 Naveed to Rossouw , FOUR , banged in short and outside off , Rossouw has all the time in the world to rock back and pull it to the deep mid-wicket fence 4.3 Naveed to de Kock , 1 run , touch fuller and around off , de Kock looks to drive off the front foot , gets an inside edge onto the pad , the ball rolls away into the off-side and the batsmen take a quick single 4.2 Naveed to de Kock , 2 runs , shortish delivery well outside off , de Kock hangs back and cuts it square of the wicket for a brace 4.1 Naveed to de Kock , no run , what is going on with the running ? It was a back of a length delivery pitching outside leg , de Kock was looking to work it through the on-side , but misses and is rapped on the pads. Rossouw was again halfway down the pitch in search of a single , but it is not there as the ball went towards the backward point fielder. He runs back and makes it in time. There was an appeal for lbw as well , but it pitched outside leg 3.6 Kamran Shazad to Rossouw , FOUR , Shazad has bowled five short deliveries out of the six in the over , that 's a little too predictable for the batsmen. This time Rossouw rocks back and pulls it through mid-wicke , the ball runs away to the fence 3.5 Kamran Shazad to Rossouw , no run , on a good length and around off , Rossouw pushes it to mid-off 3.4 Kamran Shazad to de Kock , 1 run , another delivery that 's short and around off , de Kock plays a controlled pull to short mid-wicket for a single 3.3 Kamran Shazad to de Kock , no run , shortish delivery well outside off , de Kock cuts it towards backward point , who dives to his left and stops the ball 3.2 Kamran Shazad to de Kock , no run , short delivery at the batsman , de Kock rolls his wrists and pulls it behind square , Rossouw was halfway down the track as he was looking for the single , but has to turn back and run as the fielder was quickly onto the ball. de Kock was also not interested in the single there 3.1 Kamran Shazad to Rossouw , 1 run , drifting on the pads , Rossouw clips it to fine leg to get off the mark 2.6 Naveed to de Kock , no run , in the channel outside off , de Kock goes across and works it to mid-on , he went a little too hard at the ball there Rilee Rossouw , left handed bat , comes to the crease 2.5 Naveed to Amla , out Caught by Amjad Ali ! ! Amla perishes and South Africa lose their first wicket quite early in the innings. It was banged in short and outside off , Amla went for the pull , but gets a top-edge that goes high in the air , the fielder from cover runs forward , gets under it and reverse-cups it to send Amla back to the hut. Amla c Amjad Ali b Naveed 12 ( 16 ) [ 4s-3 ] Naveed to Amla , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 2.4 Naveed to Amla , no run , back of a length outside off , Amla defends it into the off-side off the back foot 2.4 Naveed to Amla , no run 2.3 Naveed to Amla , no run , slightly back of a length and around off , Amla stands tall in the crease and punches it towards mid-on 2.2 Naveed to de Kock , 1 run , touch fuller and outside off , de Kock tries to force it through the off-side , but gets an inside edge that goes past the stumps and towards fine leg , only a single available there Free-hit coming up 2.2 Naveed to de Kock , no ball , another no-ball from Naveed ! Wait a minute , there was some foot behind the line , but umpire Tucker got it wrong. It was angling away outside off , de Kock shoulders arms 2.1 Naveed to de Kock , no run , on a good length and on off , de Kock presses forward and bunts it in front of cover , he was looking for the single , but has to rush back in as the fielder was quick to run forward and stop the ball 1.6 Kamran Shazad to Amla , no run , slightly back of a length and outside off , Amla stays inside the crease and pushes it towards cover 1.5 Kamran Shazad to Amla , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Amla mistimes the punch to cover 1.4 Kamran Shazad to Amla , FOUR , great shot from Amla ! He stands tall and punches this length delivery outside off through the covers , the ball races away to the fence 1.3 Kamran Shazad to Amla , no run , drags his length back a touch , Amla goes across and defends with a straight bat 1.2 Kamran Shazad to Amla , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Amla leans forward and pushes it to mid-off 1.1 Kamran Shazad to de Kock , 1 run , straighter in line and de Kock clips it behind square to get off the mark Kamran Shazad , right-arm medium , comes into the attack Shazad will share the attack. He has two slips in place 0.6 Naveed to Amla , no run , caught ! But , it was a free-hit , so no harm done. It was full and just outside off , Amla backs away and looks to slog across the line , gets a thick outside edge that flies to captain Tauqir at first slip Free-hit continues 0.6 Naveed to Amla , no ball , ohh dear ! What has happened here ? Naveed slips in a beamer at Hashim Amla , who was trying to hit it towards the on-side boundary. Amla was surprised by it and looks to fend it away , gets hit on the wrist. Amla immediately takes his gloves off and is in some pain. The physio is out there tending to him. The magic spray is being applied and looks like Amla is fine to continue Free-hit coming up 0.6 Naveed to Amla , no ball , oversteps in the first over itself , called a no-ball. It was angling in on middle stump line , Amla goes across and works it towards mid-wicket 0.5 Naveed to Amla , FOUR , back of a length delivery outside off , Amla goes deep in the crease and punches it square of the wicket , the fielders at backward point and cover give chase , but the ball runs away to the fence 0.4 Naveed to Amla , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Amla punches it towards cover 0.3 Naveed to Amla , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Amla stays back inside the crease and pushes it towards backward point 0.2 Naveed to Amla , FOUR , lucky boundary for Amla to get off the mark , it was a back of a length delivery outside off , Amla looks to punch it off the back foot , gets an outside edge that runs away past the second slip and through to the third man fence Two slips in place 0.1 Naveed to Amla , no run , full delivery with a hint of shape away just outside off , Amla watches it carefully and leaves it for the keeper Amla and de Kock are at the crease. Amla is on strike. Naveed will open the attack The UAE players are standing in a circle , with captain Tauqir giving them a pep talk. The South African openers are out there in the middle. Naveed will open the bowling , with Hashim Amla taking the strike first up. Here we go then.. . The players line-up for the national anthems. First , it is the UAE national anthem that is being played , followed by the South African anthem . Pitch Report : " There is quite a bit of grass , but it is dead grass. The pitch is hard and it is not going to change much throughout the day. The bowlers will be happy as well , as the wind is not going to be blowing so much. I do n't think the toss will play a role , " reckons Mpumelelo Mbangwa Teams : South Africa ( Playing XI ) : Hashim Amla , Quinton de Kock ( w ) , Rilee Rossouw , AB de Villiers ( c ) , David Miller , Jean-Paul Duminy , Farhaan Behardien , Vernon Philander , Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel , Imran Tahir United Arab Emirates ( Playing XI ) : Amjad Ali , Andri Berenger , Khurram Khan , Shaiman Anwar , Swapnil Patil , Saqlain Haider ( w ) , Amjad Javed , Mohammad Naveed , Mohammad Tauqir ( c ) , Fahad Alhashmi , Kamran Shazad United Arab Emirates have won the toss and have opted to field Tauqir : " We have performed decently well. We have a couple of more games and everyone is keen to do well and play some positive cricket. We will bowl first. It seems to be a good wicket , we have a couple of good fast bowlers in our side and we want to bowl first and put them under pressure. There is no particular target in mind. We would like to bowl and field well and put them under pressure. We 've got three changes in our side. We 've got Kamran Shahzad , Fahad Alhashmi and a new batsman-keeper Saqlain Haider. " de Villiers : " Not different , pretty much the same ( asked about preparation for this game ) . The guys are working really hard at their game , making sure that we give ourselves the best opportunity to perform. So it went very well , couple of days at the Basin Reserve , very nice , pretty ground. All good and we are set to go to play some good cricket today. It 's a good opportunity for our batters to once again score some runs and get into good form and hopefully set a good total for them to chase down. A solid game of cricket will give us some confidence. Like I said , few runs for the batters would be great and obviously some wickets for the bowlers. Just play a good game of cricket. If we do come out on top here , then we will start thinking about the knockout stage. We want to play a good game of cricket. Behardien comes in for du Plessis , Philander makes his comeback and Abbott misses out today. " The toss is not far away folks. Let 's be very frank , South Africa are clear favourites to win this contest. What will AB de Villiers do if he wins the toss ? South Africa have lost both their games chasing a target. Will he look to chase and test his batsmen out before the knockout games ? Knowing this , will Mohammad Tauqir want to bat and post a score and test South Africa out ? We 'll get the answers shortly. Stay tuned.. . Weather Report : There was some rain expected for this game , but fortunately the conditions are bright and sunny. It might get a little cloudy later on , but we should get a full game in. With the maximum temperature expected to hover around 21 degrees Celsius , the weather should be perfect for playing cricket . Team changes : Vernon Philander is expected to be fit for this game , while Faf du Plessis is a doubtful starter , with him struggling with a lower-back stiffness. Will South Africa push Rilee Rossouw up the order and drop out of form Quinton de Kock ? That would mean that AB de Villiers will keep wickets. Meanwhile , UAE could probably take this opportunity to try out some of the players who have n't played in the competition yet . " The way they are going , they 're scoring 400 runs against West Indies and Ireland. I think we need to bowl well , need to field well to restrict them. We will be putting in a lot of effort against South Africa , " said captain Mohammad Tauqir . On the other hand , UAE have been winless so far in the competition. Despite putting in a spirited show against Zimbabwe , they failed to capture key moments and lost their tournament opener. It was a case of so near yet so far for UAE against Ireland as they let William Porterfield & Co. to register a come-from-behind win in Brisbane. A few days later , they were a no contest to India , but with a gritty performance with the bat , despite losing the match , they ensured that Pakistan could not bowl them out. Shaiman Anwar has stolen all the limelight. Batting lower down the order , he has impressed one and all and is one of the top run-getters in the tournament. The problem for UAE though is that they have managed to piece together a solid package. If they can run South Africa close today , it would be a great achievement . Meanwhile , talking ahead of this match , de Villiers said that his side is treating this as a must-win game. " It 's a very important game. We have to win it. It 's not a 'maybe we 'll win it ' kind of game. It 's a must-win for us. We 'd really like to get to eight points and make sure we finish second in the group , that 's the plan for now. We 've got to win our game first , otherwise we might actually play Australia in Adelaide. " " We just did n't play really good cricket today. I thought we were right with the ball in hand and shocking with the bat. I expect us to get more partnerships going from the top seven batters. It 's never nice to lose games of cricket , I am not going to be happy with that , " said a disappointed de Villiers after the match . AB de Villiers opted to bowl in overcast conditions in Auckland. Although his bowlers managed to get only one early wicket , they came back strongly and bowled out Pakistan for 222. In reply , with Faf du Plessis and Hashim Amla recovering well from the early loss of Quinton de Dock , South Africa were well on course for an easy victory , but some inspirational bowling from Pakistan saw them lose 4 wickets in a space of 10 runs. Captain de Villiers though threatened to take the game away with a brisk fifty , but lack of support from the other end meant Pakistan went on to win a thrilling contest . There is no doubt that South Africa is one of the strongest teams on paper , if not the strongest in the competition. After seeing off Zimbabwe in their tournament opener , the Proteas went down to India at the MCG in their next encounter. They recovered very well and registered thumping wins over West Indies and Ireland. However , they suffered a shocking loss at the hands of Pakistan in their most recent fixture. The fact that they have lost to two main teams in Pool B is a bit of a concern , especially after being tagged as " favourites " to win the World Cup this time around . Now let 's get back to present and take a look at how both teams have fared thus far in the 2015 World Cup . Moving on to Kirsten 's marathon innings , it was Zarawani who chose to bowl first thinking that the ball would assist the seamers because of some moisture on the pitch caused by overnight rain. However , UAE 's bowlers did not justify the captain 's call as South Africa scored freely. Opener Gary Kirsten reached 50 off 51 balls , 100 off 105 balls and his next 50 runs came off just 30 balls. Eventually , Kirsten hit 13 fours and 4 sixes , before finishing unbeaten on 188 - then the highest ever individual score in a World Cup game - surpassing Viv Richards ' 181 * against Sri Lanka in 1987. Kirsten 's effort was then second highest ODI score of all time , next to Viv Richards ' 189. South Africa posted 321/2 - their highest ever ODI score then - and registered an easy victory . Donald ran in and banged it short , albeit with an intention to bounce it over the batsman , but unfortunately , it turned out to be a well-directed bumper and Zarawani got hit flush on the head as he took his eyes off the ball. It was a pacy delivery and it almost rolled back to the bowler after hitting the batsman. With Zarawani holding his head , a worried Donald rushed to check his health and much to the delight of everyone , Zarawani was fine to continue. Symcox though suggested Donald to bowl another bouncer , to which the latter responded , " There 's no way I 'm bowling him another bouncer. " Recalling the incident later , Zarawani said it was stupid of him not to wear a helmet , while Donald admitted that he thought he had killed the batsman . It was UAE 's captain Sultan Zarawani , who was making his way out to the middle with grey coloured floppy hat. This took the South Africans by surprise. To make it even more intriguing , Zarawani , a wealthy man , with a slew of expensive cars at his disposal , had reportedly promised every cricketer in that squad a Mercedes Benz , if they defeated a heavyweight in the mega-event. Jonty Rhodes had heard about Zarawani 's promise and had reminded Donald of it during the break. Off-spinner Pat Symcox , who was fielding as a substitute , provoked Donald to bowl a bouncer . When you think of South Africa v UAE , you remember two things. One , is Allan Donald 's bouncer to Sultan Zarawani and the other is Gary Kirsten 's record-breaking 188 * . Both happened on February 16 in Rawalpindi , during the 1996 World Cup. Let 's rewind to the first incident. Chasing a mammoth total , UAE were reduced to 68/6. After the Proteas finished their celebrations on dismissing Johanne Samarasekara , everyone was surprised to see a batsman walk without a helmet against Allan " White lightning " Donald . Preview South Africa will want consistency and commitment in their final league game against the United Arab Emirates on Thursday. The Proteas will be aware that their stop-start form can not continue as the tournament 's knockout phase looms. At their best , de Villiers ' men have looked like world beaters , becoming the first team in history to post successive one-day international totals of 400-plus in Pool B wins over the West Indies and Ireland. On the downside , they have been skittled out for 177 and 202 in losses to India and Pakistan respectively , reviving memories of the hated " chokers " tag that has haunted previous ICC Cricket World Cup campaigns . Team News : South Africa : With a quarter-final against a dangerous Sri Lanka appearing likely , the UAE match presents a final chance for some South African fine-tuning. It also has the potential to provide crucial practice for seamer Vernon Philander , who has missed the past three games with a hamstring injury. In his absence , Kyle Abbott has been impressive - taking eight wickets at an impressive average of 12.87 . The World Cup hopefuls will hope Quinton de Kock hits form ahead of the knock-out stages. The team think-tank could also look at getting the in-form Rilee Russouw to bat up top in place of the wicket-keeper , leaving AB de Villiers to take up wicket-keeping duties. This could allow them to play an all-rounder in Wayne Parnell and clear up their fifth bowler conundrum . There could also be space for left-armer Aaron Phangiso - To give Imran Tahir a rest . Probable XI : Hashim Amla , Quinton de Kock/Rilee Russouw , Faf du Plessis , AB de Villiers ( capt ) , David Miller , JP Duminy , Wayne Parnell , Vernon Philander/Kyle Abbott , Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel , Aaron Phangiso . Player to watch out for : AB de Villiers - The South Africa captain has been in stellar form , and against a below-par UAE attack could come out all guns blazing. His batting apart , the South African has also been bowling regularly for the Proteas , and has picked up a couple of wickets. He could be seen with the ball should SA choose the same set-up for the UAE game . UAE : The amateurs of the UAE , many of them Pakistani expatriates , are winless so far in the tournament and should not present a hurdle if South Africa are anywhere near their best. They did start their World Cup campaign on a positive note , giving Zimbabwe and Ireland a run for their money. UAE 's best performance so far was a gutsy two-wicket loss to fellow non-Test nation Ireland. They have however struggled to make a big impact against the big teams like India and Pakistan , and will hope to give themselves a game to savour . Probable XI : Amjad Ai , Andri Berenger , Krishna Chandran , Khurram Khan , Shaiman Anwar , Swapnil Patel , Rohan Mustafa , Amjad Javed , Mohammad Naveed , Mohammad Tauqir ( capt ) , Manjula Guruge . Player to watch out for : Shaiman Anwar - The middle-order batsman is in a rich vein of form - one that saw him claim the top spot on the run makers list at one point - having scored one hundred and two fifties in the four games UAE have played so far. Against an attack that South Africa boast of , UAE will need Anwar to be at his best. He has , so far , scored 270 runs in four matches , at a brilliant average of 67.50 . Stats and Trivia : UAE and South Africa have met each other once before , with South Africa claiming a 169-run win during the 1996 World Cup . South Africa became the first side in ODI history to score in excess of 400 in two successive innings . Quotes : AB de Villiers - We need to have a chat about what maybe went wrong ( against Pakistan ) ... and try to get to fifth gear again against the UAE . Mohammed Tauqir - The way they are going , they 're scoring 400 runs against West Indies and Ireland. I think we need to bowl well , need to field well to restrict them. We will be putting in a lot of effort against South Africa . Teams : United Arab Emirates ( From ) : Amjad Ali , Andri Berenger , Krishnachandran Karate , Khurram Khan , Shaiman Anwar , Swapnil Patil ( k ) , Rohan Mustafa , Amjad Javed , Mohammad Naveed , Mohammad Tauqir ( c ) , Manjula Guruge , Nasir Aziz , Fahad Alhashmi , Kamran Shazad , Saqlain Haider South Africa ( From ) : Quinton de Kock ( k ) , Hashim Amla , Faf du Plessis , Rilee Rossouw , AB de Villiers ( c ) , David Miller , Jean-Paul Duminy , Dale Steyn , Kyle Abbott , Morne Morkel , Imran Tahir , Farhaan Behardien , Wayne Parnell , Aaron Phangiso , Vernon Philander Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
