Graphs That 's it from this game. But , there is another game happening. England need 101 runs to register their second win and end the tournament on a positive note. So , switch tabs and follow their game against Afghanistan. Until next time , take care and Cya ! Let 's glance through some of the tweets from this game.. . @ BishanBedi : DVettori finished it off w/out any fuss or camera-oriented heroics ! Does it make DanV any less valuable Kiwi ? ! Crkt is played that way only ! ! @ AWSStats : B McCullum ODIs since 1 Jan 2014 : v Seam : 551 runs , out 12 times. Avg 45.91 , SR 156.53 v Spin : 168 runs , out 11 times. Avg 15.27 , SR 92.81 @ iainobrien : Ross Taylors two favourite scoring zones are exactly 180 degrees apart. Wide third man - you guess the other.. . @ bhogleharsha : Most likely : Winner of Ind vs BD plays winner of Oz vs Pak ; winner of NZ vs WI plays winner of SA vs SL. # CWC15 @ varun_kani : Bangladesh 's performance today shows India 's Quarter Final match will not be Simple . McCullum : " Little bit untidy. Probably in all three facets of the game for us. Credit to Bangladesh , credit to Mahmudullah , I thought his innings , especially when he came into bat , they were under a little bit of pressure and the boys were swinging it. And for him to be able to absorb that and then obviously to go on and post another significant score in a World Cup game is a credit to him and to the Bangladesh boys for putting us under a lot of pressure. But , we need to be better than that. They ( Guptill and Taylor ) have been hitting the ball ok. It 's just probably a little shortage of opportunities as well. Gups is really starting to come into his own. I thought he made a nice score in the last game and obviously today the tempo that he played with from the word go is outstanding. We know he is a quality player , statistics back that up as well and not just what he does with the bat , but in the field again today he was outstanding and few of the other guys need to take a leaf out of that. Obviously it is good for Rosco ( Taylor ) , he is probably a little bit disappointed not to get the strike rate he wanted. But , that partnership was pretty key to allow us to be able to advance the game little bit later on. Exactly he ( Vettori ) and Tim is a leader within the group and I thought his options were excellent , Dan Vettori 's options were really good as well. Thought Corey Anderson up until the ball he got out , he was playing beautifully as well. " " There were a couple of messy things from us tonight , bat , ball and in the field we can improve. Sometimes you are not always going to be on , but I thought our awareness in the field today and our attention at times needs to improve. That is something we pride ourselves on , if we are serious about advancing deep in the tournament , then we need to keep getting better. But , we will take a win , Bangladesh are a tough team and especially on a wicket like that , it was probably more of sub-continent type of wicket than a New Zealand or Australian wicket as well. Still a really good win , but some areas we need to improve. Everything is alright ( on diving around to stop the ball ) . Just that the boards have got a bit sharpness in them , so cut my hand couple of times. We have to play like that , I have said it time and time again that we need to be throwing ourselves around , we need to be desperate in the field , we need to be trying to save every run. It 's an attitude thing for us , we need to keep showing those and if get injured along the way that 's the way it goes. You have got to bring that to the table and in these sort of competitions and if you are serious about going deep in the tournament. It does n't bother me , does n't bother us who we play. I think if we can reach the levels that we expect of ourselves and put in a real strong performance and then we will be hard to beat. It does n't guarantee us success , but we will be hard to beat. All the teams remaining in the competition have got match-winners throughout , so we need to be on song and we have got a few days now to get over this. Really start to channel our thoughts into the quarter-finals and make sure that we turn up and deliver our best performance of the tournament in that game. " Shakib : " Yes , you can say that. I thought we played really well. Especially the way we batted. Mahmudullah , the way he batted and Soumya Sarkar , they batted really well. I think we bowled really well and kept it tight. It was till the 49th over , that they won the game. That can happen , but we can take a lot of positives from this game and hopefully , this will work in our favour in the quarter-final. He is in great form , but he needs to keep continuing that performance in the quarter-final and hopefully , he will do that , he is in great touch. Some of our boys are in good nick , they are scoring runs regularly. Hopefully , we will contribute with bat and ball and then let 's see what happens. We always knew that we needed some early wickets , we got that but they scored some more runs than what we were expecting. It was always hard for us and especially , we were a bowler short , we did n't have five regular bowlers. So , that was the problem. Otherwise , we bowled really well and kept them tied and in the end , they were the better team today. Yes , after a long time , I did this , yeah enjoyed it ( on captaincy ) . " Guptill : " Yeah , it does feel good mate. It 's a been long time between drinks. But , it has been pretty pleasing to get the runs on the board. I felt pretty good most of the summer , there were couple of innings , where things did n't feel quite fluent. But , I think in Napier and today , it is just getting better. We have got a lot of belief in the team. The way we are playing our cricket and executing our skills , it is very pleasing. We just need to continue on in the next couple of weeks. It is always nice batting with him ( Taylor ) , we started off with a little partnership in Napier and we just sort of carried it along today. He is a quality player and I will learn a lot from him. " Martin Guptill is the Man of the Match New Zealand now will take on one out of West Indies/Ireland/Pakistan in the quarterfinals. Bangladesh have the daunting task of facing up to the form team of the tournament , India , in the quarterfinals . Among the pacers , Trent Boult and Tim Southee produced a fine exhibition of swing/seam bowling with the new ball. Boult was even rewarded with the wickets of Tamim Iqbal and Imrul Kayes , though he came in for some punishment in the end overs. Vettori , the experienced campaigner , put up a fine performance. But Mitchell McClenaghan struggled to make an impact. McCullum again led from the front with his field placements and athletic fielding . Earlier , Mahmudullah twinned measured judgment outside the off-stump and stroke-play to aggregate back-to-back centuries. He became only the second Bangladeshi to score hundreds in successive games in ODIs. Soumya Sarkar and Sabbir Rahman too played useful hands. The New Zealand camp would rue the fact that Corey Anderson dropped a catch when Mahmudullah was on one . For Bangladesh , Shakib picked up four wickets. In fact , it was a good strategy to start with spinners at both ends up front , as Brendon McCullum likes pace on the ball. Shakib even snared the important wickets of McCullum and Kane Williamson. The spinners also extracted a bit of turn. However , the seamers were slightly below par . Ross Taylor gave good support to Guptill. Initially , he struggled for timing , but once he got set , Taylor went right back to play a slew of cut shots. Taylor scored a well-deserved fifty and with it , aggregated 5,000 ODI runs. Once Guptill lost his wicket , Grant Elliott came out all guns blazing. Taylor and É lliott were dismissed in quick succession to give Bangladesh genuine hope of coming back into the game. However , Corey Anderson with some lusty blows took New Zealand closer to a win before he was dismissed by Nasir Hossain. It was Daniel Vettori then , who held his nerve to take the home team to a tense victory . Martin Guptill 's splendid hundred and a gutsy knock by Ross Taylor took New Zealand to victory in a game full of fluctuating fortunes. When New Zealand lost the wickets of Brendon McCullum and Kane Williamson against the new ball , they were in a spot of bother. However , Guptill used his feet against Shakib Al Hasan to start his innings on a great note. When the seamers , Rubel Hossain and Taskin Ahmed came into the attack , he played some cracking shots on the back foot. Guptill also showed his ability to use his height to come well-forward and play a couple of shots down the ground against the pacers. He completed his hundred in a mere 88 balls . New Zealand keep their unbeaten run in the tournament intact. Though one must give credit to Bangladesh for running them close. Had it not been for a cool head on Vettori 's shoulder , things might have been different. The New Zealand players come out and shake hands with the Bangladeshi players . 48.5 Shakib to Southee , FOUR , Southee finishes it off in style. New Zealand prevail to pull off a 3 wicket win. It was not all that short , Southee uses the depth of the crease , goes right back and cuts it through cover-point , the timing was sublime as the fielder did n't even bother to chase it 48.4 Shakib to Southee , SIX , terrific shot ! Under pressure and Southee unleashes an excellent shot. Makes a bit of room and lofts it handsomely over wide of long-off , the ball sails over the boundary with ease 48.3 Shakib to Southee , no run , drops it short outside off , Southee cuts and picks out the cover-point fielder , no chance of a run 48.2 Shakib to Vettori , 1 run , comes down the track , crouches low and wrists it to long-on 48.1 Shakib to Southee , 1 run , Southee does not do anything fancy , works it down to long-on , for a single Shakib Al Hasan [ 8.0-1-43-4 ] is back into the attack 11 off 12. Still no pace on the ball. Remember Rubel cleaned up the tail against England. Might have been worth to give him a go. . 47.6 Nasir Hossain to Vettori , SIX , marvellous shot ! Vettori just showing his range and letting people know he has still got it with the bat. Once again moves away to the leg-side and comes down the track , gives himself some room and lofts it beautifully inside out , he did n't overhit , just relied on timing. At one point , everyone thought he picked out the long-off fielder , but he cleared him comfortably 47.5 Nasir Hossain to Vettori , 2 runs , that is a lovely shot , Vettori backs away to the leg-side and drives it inside out wide of long-off , Sabbir runs across to his right and keeps it down to a couple , Southee had to hurry back to make the ground 47.4 Nasir Hossain to Southee , 1 run , trifle short , Southee goes back and pulls it to deep backward square leg 47.3 Nasir Hossain to Southee , no run , tossed up around off , Southee taps it gently in front of point , Vettori wanted the run but Southee sends him back Tim Southee , right handed bat , comes to the crease 47.2 Nasir Hossain to Corey Anderson , out Bowled ! ! This match gets even more interesting. Nasir Hossain sends back the dangerman and exults in joy. Anderson puts his head back and makes the long walk back. Nasir slowed up and pulled the length back , Anderson was way too early into the slog sweep , misses and the ball hits the top of middle stump. Corey Anderson b Nasir Hossain 39 ( 26 ) [ 4s-3 6s-3 ] Nasir Hossain to Corey Anderson , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 47.1 Nasir Hossain to Corey Anderson , SIX , nailed it ! A one-handed catch in the crowd. He has put himself into contention for the one million New Zealand dollars. Half tracker on off , Anderson goes deep in the crease , smashes it over long-on for half-a-dozen 26 off 18 and it is still even-stevens. Spin to win it for Bangladesh as Nasir Hossain continues. . 46.6 Mahmudullah to Corey Anderson , 1 run , 75kph flighted delivery , Anderson hammers it back to the bowler , Mahmudullah gets his right hand and takes the pace off the ball , parries it to long-off 46.5 Mahmudullah to Corey Anderson , no run , short and outside off , Anderson slaps it straight to extra cover 46.4 Mahmudullah to Vettori , 1 run , dropped ! That would have been a ripper of a catch. Vettori kneels down and top-edges the slog sweep , Nasir Hossain runs a long way forward from long-on , dives full length , gets both hands but it just pops out as he hits the ground 46.3 Mahmudullah to Vettori , no run , slower and stops on the batsman , Vettori plays a controlled cut to backward point , Tamim lobs the back towards the bowler , who was not watching it , but the batsmen do n't risk the run 46.2 Mahmudullah to Corey Anderson , 1 run , slightly short and on off , Anderson pulls it to long-on , for a single 46.1 Mahmudullah to Corey Anderson , FOUR , brute power ! Tom Moody says , " this is ridiculous " . Not all that short , Anderson flat-bats it straight back at the bowler , the ball flies over Mahmudullah even before he could get his hand up. Even the umpire was ducking for cover Mahmudullah [ 2.0-0-15-0 ] is back into the attack The equation now reads 33 off 24 balls. Anderson is the key for New Zealand. Shakib hands the responsibilty to the centurion , Mahmudullah 45.6 Nasir Hossain to Corey Anderson , 1 run , Anderson is riding his luck , slower through the air , Anderson goes down on one and for the slog sweep , the ball catches the top edge and balloons over the keeper 's head , wide of the short fine leg fielder as well 45.5 Nasir Hossain to Vettori , 1 run , works it with the angle from round the wicket to mid-wicket , hands the strike back to Anderson 45.4 Nasir Hossain to Vettori , FOUR , fabulous shot ! Vettori spotted that there is only one in the deep and went through with the sweep , hits it in front of square and the ball races away to the fence. The fielder was at deep square 45.3 Nasir Hossain to Vettori , no run , fraction short and outside off , Vettori plays the late cut and finds short third man , the fielder makes a tumbling save 45.2 Nasir Hossain to Vettori , no run , flatter and on off , Vettori punches only as far as short mid-wicket 45.1 Nasir Hossain to Corey Anderson , 1 run , pushed through outside off , Anderson goes hard , mistimes the drive to extra cover. Rahim is not happy with the fielder allowing the single to be taken easily 44.6 Shakib to Corey Anderson , 1 run , pulls the length back , Anderson looks to help it round the corner , ball takes the top edge and loops to deep backward square. Lucky , that he did n't pick out short fine 44.5 Shakib to Vettori , 1 run , slower and on off , Vettori leans forward and wrists it to long-on Daniel Vettori , left handed bat , comes to the crease 44.4 Shakib to Ronchi , out Caught by Nasir Hossain ! ! Exceptional bowling from Shakib. He picks up his fourth and keeps the match alive. Slows this up and holds the length back , Ronchi goes inside out , he wanted to hit it a lot squarer , but he hits it towards long-off , where Nasir takes a well judged catch. Ronchi c Nasir Hossain b Shakib 9 ( 10 ) [ 4s-2 ] Shakib to Ronchi , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 44.3 Shakib to Corey Anderson , 1 run , quicker and on the stumps , Anderson ca n't get underneath it , drilled down to long-on 44.2 Shakib to Corey Anderson , no run , " that 's your bowling mate " says Rahim after Shakib fires one in the blockhole , Anderson squeezes it back to the bowler Anderson , in the meanwhile has a drink. Puts on his gloves and walks back to the crease . 44.1 Shakib to Corey Anderson , SIX , that 's out of the ground. This was always on the cards. Left-arm spinner to Anderson , anybody would have expected that. Flighted delivery on off , Anderson kneels down and slog sweeps it over deep mid-wicket , hits the roof and bounces out of the ground. The umpires call for a replacement Shakib Al Hasan [ 7.0-1-34-3 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Nasir Hossain to Ronchi , FOUR , too full and on the stumps , Ronchi bends his front leg and slugs it towards cow corner , he hit that well as the fielder in the deep could n't get around to stop the ball. A much needed boundary for New Zealand 43.5 Nasir Hossain to Ronchi , no run , knocks it back to the bowler 43.4 Nasir Hossain to Ronchi , no run , sweeps and picks out short fine leg 43.3 Nasir Hossain to Ronchi , no run , huge shout for lbw , umpire Kettleborough shakes his head. Quicker on middle and leg , Ronchi misses the sweep , similar to the Taylor dismissal , but the ball was heading down leg and Hawk-Eye shows it to be clipping leg-stump 43.2 Nasir Hossain to Corey Anderson , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Anderson punches it to long-on 43.1 Nasir Hossain to Corey Anderson , no run , slower and stops on the batsman , Anderson was winding up for the big hit , checks his shot and defends it down the wicket 54 needed off 42 balls. Bangladesh continue with the spinner. . 42.6 Taskin Ahmed to Corey Anderson , 1 run , slower delivery to end the over , it holds its line , Anderson drives and the outside edge runs down to third man 42.6 Taskin Ahmed to Corey Anderson , wide , drifts it down leg , Anderson gets inside the line and lets it go , wide given Taskin goes round the wicket. . 42.5 Taskin Ahmed to Corey Anderson , FOUR , drilled ! Power , it is raw power from Corey Anderson. Not all that full , Anderson hammers it on-the-up past the non-striker and wide of mid-off. No chance for long-on to get across and stop it 42.4 Taskin Ahmed to Ronchi , 1 run , well judged run , good length ball slants back in , Ronchi taps it to the right of Taskin , calls for the single and gets it easily 42.3 Taskin Ahmed to Corey Anderson , 1 run , back of the hand slower ball , Anderson eases it down to long-on 42.2 Taskin Ahmed to Corey Anderson , FOUR , smashed ! Banged in midway down the pitch , Anderson is quick to swivel on the back foot and pulls it on the bounce to the deep backward square leg fence , pings the ad-board 42.1 Taskin Ahmed to Corey Anderson , no run , short of length on off , knocked to the right of the bowler , Taskin moves across and fields the ball 41.6 Nasir Hossain to Ronchi , no run , Ronchi is hurried on by this quicker delivery , he manages to keep it out 41.5 Nasir Hossain to Ronchi , no run , quicker and on the stumps , Ronchi knocks it to short mid-wicket 41.4 Nasir Hossain to Ronchi , FOUR , trifle short and Ronchi is onto it. He rocks and pulls it over mid-wicket , there is no one in the deep and the ball goes on the bounce to the fence 41.3 Nasir Hossain to Ronchi , no run , floated up around off , Ronchi defends it back to the bowler Luke Ronchi , right handed bat , comes to the crease 41.2 Nasir Hossain to Ross Taylor , out Lbw ! ! Waste of a review from New Zealand. Do n't know who should be blamed there , Taylor or Anderson. Nevertheless , Bangladesh have struck at a crucial time. Tossed up delivery on off , Taylor kneels down and misses the slog sweep , trapped in front of off and middle , ball would have hit the top of midle stump. This might be a blessing in disguise as Taylor never looked fluent , even though he had a fifty to his name. Ross Taylor lbw b Nasir Hossain 56 ( 97 ) [ 4s-5 ] Nasir Hossain to Ross Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Taylor has been given out LBW. He has a chat with Anderson , who tells him to review it. Nasir Hossain is fine with the front foot. In fact , Taylor is walking off. Snicko picks up no inside edge. Why did he challenge the decision ? When he knew it was out. Hawk-Eye shows it hitting the top of middle stump. He is OUT ! 41.1 Nasir Hossain to Ross Taylor , no run , flighted and bit of more bounce , Taylor shufffles across and taps it to short mid-wicket 40.6 Taskin Ahmed to Corey Anderson , no run , on-the-up drive , mistimes it completely and finds the mid-off fielder , no chance for the single as well 40.6 Taskin Ahmed to Corey Anderson , wide , splays it down leg , Anderson has nothing to do with it , wide called 40.5 Taskin Ahmed to Corey Anderson , SIX , take that ! Anderson makes a statement there and gets off the mark with a maximum. Length delivery in the slot , Anderson flexes his muscles and hammers it straight back over the bowler 's head 40.4 Taskin Ahmed to Corey Anderson , no run , good length ball around off , Anderson presses it back down the wicket 40.3 Taskin Ahmed to Ross Taylor , 1 run , shortish delivery , Taylor toe-ends the cut to square third man , fielder slides to his right and keeps it to a single 40.2 Taskin Ahmed to Ross Taylor , no run , good bounce and pace from Taskin , short of length and rears up on Taylor , who has a waft at that and is beaten by the extra bounce. He knew it was a superb delivery 40.1 Taskin Ahmed to Ross Taylor , no run , back of a length around off , Taylor bunts it to cover Taskin Ahmed [ 6.0-0-29-0 ] is back into the attack The batting powerplay produced 19/1. New Zealand need 78 runs in the final 10 overs. Till these two are there , they have the upper hand. If Bangladesh can nip out a couple of wickets , then they there in with a chance to win this game . 39.6 Nasir Hossain to Corey Anderson , no run , skids on after pitching , Anderson knocks it to the left of the bowler Nasir Hossain forgets to deliver the ball , has to rebowl that.. It might have got stuck in his hand 39.5 Nasir Hossain to Corey Anderson , no run , pushes it back to the bowler off the front foot 39.4 Nasir Hossain to Corey Anderson , no run , tossed up around off , bowled at 79kph , Anderson presses forward and blocks it to the off-side Nasir Hossain goes round the wicket. . 39.3 Nasir Hossain to Ross Taylor , 1 run , dabbed way square of the wicket on the leg-side , for a single 39.2 Nasir Hossain to Ross Taylor , no run , worked with the turn to short mid-wicket 39.1 Nasir Hossain to Ross Taylor , no run , hangs back and knocks it to the right of the bowler Nasir Hossain , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 38.6 Rubel to Corey Anderson , no run , Rubel gets excited after pinging Anderson on the pads , appeals for LBW , umpire Dharmasena just moves away. Back of a length delivery that straightens , Anderson misses the flick and is struck high on the pad. The ball pitched outside leg and would have missed the stumps as well Corey Anderson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 38.5 Rubel to Elliott , out Caught by Taskin Ahmed ! ! Rubel strikes against the run of play ! Taskin is surprised that he took the catch. Guess he was not expecting the ball to reach him on the full. A nice innings from Elliott comes to an end and he is disappointed for throwing it away. Full and plenty of width on offer , Elliott plays the lofted-drive , gets it right off the middle , but picks out sweeper to perfection. Good low catch by Taskin. Elliott c Taskin Ahmed b Rubel 39 ( 34 ) [ 4s-5 6s-1 ] Rubel to Elliott , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! A slip comes in now to stop that shot. . 38.4 Rubel to Elliott , no run , Rubel has his hands on his head , beats Elliott 's glide down to third man. There was some away swing on that occasion. Hence , Elliott could not connect with the shot 38.3 Rubel to Elliott , no run , short of length on off , Elliott stays back and drops it in front of point 38.2 Rubel to Ross Taylor , 1 run , tails back in from a fuller length , Taylor goes hard on the drive , the ball squirts off the inside edge to backward square leg 38.1 Rubel to Elliott , 1 run , steered with an open bat face to third man 37.6 T Islam to Ross Taylor , no run , gets forward and presses it to the left of the bowler 37.5 T Islam to Elliott , 1 run , goes back and across , nurdled to square leg , for a single 37.4 T Islam to Elliott , 2 runs , Taskin almost allowed the ball to go through , another sweep behind square , a man was placed this time , Taskin gets across and is almost undone by the spin , but manages to get behind and save a couple 37.3 T Islam to Elliott , FOUR , Elliott is looking in awesome touch. Flighted delivery on off and middle , Elliott goes down on one knee and sweeps it hard to deep backward square leg , the fielder was nowhere close to the ball 37.2 T Islam to Elliott , FOUR , Taijul once again offers a half tracker and Elliott puts it away. He goes deep in the crease and pull it to deep mid-wicket , one bounce and into the fence 37.1 T Islam to Elliott , no run , turn and bounce , Elliott was shaping to play the punch , but decides against it after seeing the bounce 36.6 Rubel to Ross Taylor , no run , full and swinging away a tad , Ross Taylor pushes it tentatively to cover 36.5 Rubel to Elliott , 1 run , pitched up outside off , driven to sweeper cover , for a single 36.4 Rubel to Elliott , no run , 'no , stay there ' says Elliott to Ross Taylor after getting forward to defend to point 36.3 Rubel to Elliott , no run , now Rubel beats Elliott. This time Elliott playing a flashy cut and the extra bounce beats the edge. No room to play that shot 36.2 Rubel to Elliott , no run , nips back in and cramps Elliott for room , he nearly inside-edges the dab back onto his stumps 36.1 Rubel to Elliott , no run , back of a length on off , defended with an open face to point 35.6 T Islam to Elliott , 1 run , Elliott opens the face of the bat and pushes it to the left of cover , Ross Taylor responds and they take a quick single 35.5 T Islam to Ross Taylor , 1 run , this one turns away too , but the length is short , cut square of the wicket 35.4 T Islam to Ross Taylor , no run , Ross Taylor is drawn on the front foot , the ball hits the outside half of the bat , on the drive and it goes straight to the fielder at point 35.3 T Islam to Elliott , 1 run , this time the back foot punch is into the gap at cover 35.2 T Islam to Elliott , no run , shortish outside off , punched to cover 35.1 T Islam to Ross Taylor , 1 run , turn for Taijul , Ross Taylor pushes out and gets a soft outside edge , short third runs to his left and dives to keep it to a single Batting powerplay is on 34.6 Rubel to Elliott , FOUR , top shot. Elliott square drives and makes Rubel pay the price for bowling very full outside off , the drive is played along the ground and it beats two men at point , who were just ball-watching 34.5 Rubel to Elliott , 2 runs , that is a safe shot as no-one is in the deep , short outside off , Elliott gets the pull over mid-wicket , for a couple 34.4 Rubel to Elliott , 2 runs , angling in to middle and leg , clipped into the gap at mid-wicket for a couple of runs 34.3 Rubel to Elliott , no run , shortish outside off , Elliott mistimes the cut , chopped to point 34.2 Rubel to Elliott , FOUR , well played by Elliott. Length delivery outside off , Elliott opens the face of the bat and then plays it late , runs it down , past slip and beats third man. Rubel is left a disappointed man , he has the double tea-pot pose on A slip in place 34.1 Rubel to Ross Taylor , 1 run , short of length on the hips , nudged to deep square leg for an easy single Rubel Hossain [ 5.0-1-24-0 ] is back into the attack 33.6 T Islam to Elliott , no run , beautiful bowling. Taijul has come back well , gets this to spin away , Elliott is lured into poking out and the ball narrowly misses the outside edge. Elliott knows he has made a false stroke and pulls his bat inside , after the ball beats the edge 33.5 T Islam to Elliott , no run , now Elliott push-drives , short cover dives to his right and keeps it to a dot 33.4 T Islam to Elliott , SIX , all the hard work that was built up has gone now. Poor , poor delivery , dragged way too short , Elliott could 've chosen where to hit it , rocks back and pulls it flat over mid-wicket 33.3 T Islam to Elliott , no run , drifting in on off , Elliott presses forward to defend 33.2 T Islam to Elliott , no run , flatter and on off , wristed straight to the fielder at short mid-wicket 33.1 T Islam to Elliott , no run , Elliott goes on the back foot to punch to point 32.6 Shakib to Elliott , 1 run , Elliott comes on the front foot to drive to long-off 32.5 Shakib to Ross Taylor , 1 run , Ross Taylor gets to a fifty with a push through cover , no celebrations at all , but the Seddon Park know that he has reached fifty and clap , show their appreciation Good pressure building here , Shakib has bowled four dots in a row 32.4 Shakib to Ross Taylor , no run , ca n't beat short mid-wicket with a clip 32.3 Shakib to Ross Taylor , no run , the arm ball , comes in after pitching and skids on , defended back to the bowler 32.2 Shakib to Ross Taylor , no run , punched to point , both batsmen set off initially before Ross Taylor sent Elliott back 32.1 Shakib to Ross Taylor , no run , well tossed up outside off , driven straight back to the bowler 31.6 T Islam to Elliott , no run , deep into his crease and Elliott works it to short mid-wicket 31.5 T Islam to Elliott , no run , tossed up and on off , defended to the backward point region 31.4 T Islam to Ross Taylor , 1 run , comes down the track and drives it to long-off 31.3 T Islam to Ross Taylor , no run , " nice areas Taijul " says Rahim as Ross Taylor is tentatively forward and pushing it to short cover 31.2 T Islam to Elliott , 1 run , Elliott gets forward and pushes it in front of point , easy single A slip in for Elliott 31.1 T Islam to Ross Taylor , 1 run , shortish outside off , Ross Taylor forces it away to deep extra cover 30.6 Shakib to Elliott , FOUR , thumped ! Down leg and it 's an easy stroke for Elliott. He kneels down and sweeps it hard and to the deep backward square fence , no-one there and Elliott will get off the mark with a boundary 30.5 Shakib to Elliott , no run , sliding on to off and middle , Elliott gets forward to defend and gets it on the splice , the ball falls in the vacant silly point position Grant Elliott , right handed bat , comes to the crease And it 's time for drinks as well. Three men crowd Elliott 30.4 Shakib to Guptill , out Caught by Rubel ! ! Three dots and Guptill has given it away. Shakib strikes for the third time. Guptill comes down the track and looks to clear long-on , but hits it flat and low to Rubel , who tumbles on his knees and holds on. Bangladesh needed that for these two were taking the game away. Guptill walks off to a standing ovation. Guptill c Rubel b Shakib 105 ( 100 ) [ 4s-11 6s-2 ] Shakib to Guptill , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 30.3 Shakib to Guptill , no run , shortish outside off , Guptill rocks back and delays the cut , finds short third 30.2 Shakib to Guptill , no run , tossed up outside off , Guptill wanted to come forward and then goes back to square drive to point 30.1 Shakib to Guptill , no run , Guptill gets forward and presses this to short cover 29.6 T Islam to Ross Taylor , no run , tossed up and turning away , Ross Taylor punches it off the back foot to point 29.5 T Islam to Guptill , 1 run , way too shortish , Guptill forces it past Ross Taylor 29.4 T Islam to Ross Taylor , 1 run , Ross Taylor goes on the back foot now and pushes it to long-on 29.3 T Islam to Ross Taylor , no run , Ross Taylor was shaping for the back foot punch , but defends eventually 29.2 T Islam to Ross Taylor , no run , sliding on from round the wicket , Ross Taylor presses forward and defends to short mid-wicket 29.1 T Islam to Guptill , 1 run , Guptill goes on the back foot and then nudges the leg stump delivery to square leg Taijul Islam [ 5.0-0-31-0 ] is back into the attack 28.6 Shakib to Ross Taylor , no run , well bowled , tossed up outside off , the ball drops on Ross Taylor who mistimes the drive back to Shakib 28.5 Shakib to Guptill , 1 run , Guptill shortens the length by going back , punched to long-on 28.4 Shakib to Ross Taylor , 1 run , sliding down , worked away to deep backward square leg 28.3 Shakib to Ross Taylor , no run , punched towards long-off , short cover goes to his right to cut it off Honestly feel , Bangladesh need a wicket and pretty soon 28.2 Shakib to Guptill , 1 run , floated up outside off , Guptill waits for it and cuts hard to sweeper cover 28.1 Shakib to Guptill , no run , down leg , Guptill misses a big sweep , the ball rolls near his feet Shakib Al Hasan [ 4.0-1-25-2 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Taskin Ahmed to Ross Taylor , no run , very full and on off , Ross Taylor shows the full face of the bat and drives well , but mid-on gets across to his left to prevent any runs 27.5 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , 1 run , short and wide outside off , cut hard to sweeper cover 27.4 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , no run , nips back in and cramps Guptill for room , he chops it to point 27.3 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , no run , very full and outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover 27.2 Taskin Ahmed to Ross Taylor , 1 run , short of length outside off , rising too , Ross Taylor gets on top of the bounce and plays a punch , with one hand coming off the bat handle , down to third man 27.1 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , 1 run , 100 for Guptill ! Sixth hundred in ODIs. He raises the bat and soaks in all the applause. Gets there with a pull to deep mid-wicket. Removes the helmet and waves the bat in the air. Embraced by Ross Taylor with a hug. No big celebrations as he knows the job is still not complete The crowd cheer as Guptill gets back onto his feet. He is ready to go again. Still stretching though. Ca n't use a runner anymore. The laws do n't allow that. Remember Chandimal went off the other day and his side lost The physio is out there and we have a slight break in play. The players take a breather. Guptill is down and receiving treatment. The physio is stretching his legs. It could be cramps. At least New Zealand will hope so it is just that. Mahmudullah and Sarkar have a chat , smile on their faces apparent. Music blares in the background. It 's four minutes and counting now 26.6 Mahmudullah to Guptill , 1 run , Hoho ! Guptill is hobbling and one spectator holds his hands on his head. Another one is too shocked to react. Nudged to the left of short fine , as soon as Guptill played that , he hobbled while setting off for the run , manages to reach the other end and goes down Guptill on 98. Crowd getting into it 26.5 Mahmudullah to Ross Taylor , 1 run , the drifter , outside off , pushed wide of point 26.4 Mahmudullah to Ross Taylor , no run , well bowled and well adjusted by Ross Taylor , he comes down the track and the bowler sees it , fires it down leg , Taylor thrusts the pad out and kicks it away. He has a wry smile on his face after that 26.3 Mahmudullah to Ross Taylor , no run , punched to short mid-wicket Back over the wicket 26.2 Mahmudullah to Guptill , 1 run , poor delivery and Mahmudullah gets away , short and down leg , pulled straight to the fielder at deep backward square leg 26.1 Mahmudullah to Ross Taylor , 1 run , tossed up on the stumps , Ross Taylor eases a drive to the right of Mahmudullah , Mahmudullah dives , but ca n't stop it 25.6 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , no run , punched and it 's cover who fields again 25.5 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , no run , back of a length outside off , Guptill punches and finds cover 25.4 Taskin Ahmed to Ross Taylor , 1 run , the fielder at mid-on was caught on his heels , pushed to him and he was not alert enough , quick single taken and easily done too 25.3 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , 1 run , the crowd are egging on Guptill as he nears his ton , shortish outside off , flashy cut to deep backward point 25.2 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , no run , hint of shape back in for Taskin Ahmed , Guptill punches it to cover A slip in place 25.1 Taskin Ahmed to Ross Taylor , 1 run , back of a length outside off , punched off the back foot to sweeper cover Taskin Ahmed [ 4.0-0-23-0 ] is back into the attack 24.6 Mahmudullah to Guptill , 2 runs , almost holes out ! Slower through the air , Guptill kneels down and top-edges the sweep , the ball balloons over short fine and the duo come back for the second 24.5 Mahmudullah to Guptill , FOUR , superb shot ! Drops it short and just outside off , Guptill goes back and punches it through extra cover , no one at sweeper cover to stop the ball from reaching the boundary 24.4 Mahmudullah to Guptill , 2 runs , wrong line from Mahmudullah , again on leg-stump , Guptill glances it to the left of short fine , easy two on offer. Taylor slipped again , but he had lots of time to recover and go back for the second 24.3 Mahmudullah to Ross Taylor , 1 run , nurdles it with the turn to deep backward square leg 24.2 Mahmudullah to Ross Taylor , no run , slower and on the stumps , Taylor leans forward and taps it to short mid-wicket 24.2 Mahmudullah to Ross Taylor , wide , darts it down leg , easy call for the umpire 24.1 Mahmudullah to Guptill , 1 run , Mahmudullah starts from round the wicket , pushes it through on leg-stump , Guptill works it to deep square leg , he thought about the second but decided against it. He would have not got it anyway as Taylor slipped while he reached his end Mahmudullah , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 23.6 Soumya Sarkar to Guptill , 1 run , shortens the length just outside off , Guptill looks to force it off the back foot , the outside edge flies down to third man 23.5 Soumya Sarkar to Guptill , FOUR , thumped ! Nice way to bring up the 100 partnership. Half volley outside off , Guptill drills the drive to deep extra cover , no chance for the sweeper to stop that. Guptill did n't bother to run The physio is out straightaway. Actually Sabbir was hit on the thumb. Applies some spray and is good to go. Meanwhile , Rahim asks for an helmet as he comes up to the stumps . 23.4 Soumya Sarkar to Guptill , 2 runs , drags the slower ball halfway down the wicket , Guptill flashes a cut to cover , the cover fielder is hit on the wrist , the ball goes past him and the batsmen take two . 23.4 Soumya Sarkar to Guptill , wide , slips the slower delivery down the leg-side , Guptill looks to help it round the corner , ca n't reach it and wide signalled 23.3 Soumya Sarkar to Ross Taylor , 1 run , short and outside off , Taylor cuts it towards backward point , Nasir Hossain makes a half stop and the duo pinch a single 23.2 Soumya Sarkar to Ross Taylor , no run , again no pace on the delivery , Taylor pushes it down the wicket , Sarkar throws the ball back , but Taylor was going nowhere 23.1 Soumya Sarkar to Ross Taylor , no run , dibbly-dobbly by Sarkar , bowled at 124.4kph , Taylor wrists it to mid-on , takes a couple of steps down the wicket before retrieving back 22.6 S Rahman to Guptill , no run , slider on the stumps , Guptill turns it to short mid-wicket 22.5 S Rahman to Ross Taylor , 1 run , punched to the right of the bowler , Sabbir dives and ca n't stop the ball 22.4 S Rahman to Ross Taylor , FOUR , fantastic shot ! That also brings up 5000 ODI runs for Taylor. He becomes the 4th New Zealander to reach the milestone. Trifle short and around off , Taylor cuts it late and splits backward point and short third to perfection 22.3 S Rahman to Guptill , 1 run , quicker and fuller , almost a yorker , Guptill squeezes it out to sweeper cover 22.2 S Rahman to Ross Taylor , 1 run , too full and on leg-stump , driven away to long-on 22.1 S Rahman to Ross Taylor , no run , drives to the left of the bowler , Sabbir dives and stops the ball 21.6 Soumya Sarkar to Ross Taylor , 1 run , on a length just outside off , Taylor plays it with soft hands , drops it in front of mid-off and calls for a brisk single 21.5 Soumya Sarkar to Guptill , 1 run , back of a length on off , Guptill punches it to long-on , for a run 21.4 Soumya Sarkar to Ross Taylor , 1 run , slower short ball , Taylor gets on top of it and pulls it down the ground to deep backward square leg , Guptill slips and goes down as he reaches the striker 's end 21.3 Soumya Sarkar to Guptill , 1 run , full delivery outside off , Guptill went for the drive , the bat turned in his hands and he dragged it to long-on. It was the slower delivery from Sarkar 21.2 Soumya Sarkar to Guptill , no run , punched back to the bowler , Sarkar fields in his followthrough 21.1 Soumya Sarkar to Guptill , no run , good length ball , Guptill presents the full face and defends to cover 20.6 S Rahman to Ross Taylor , FOUR , top shot ! How good is Taylor on the cut shot ? He waits and waits before playing the shot , uses the depth of the crease as well and places it right between backward point and short third man 20.5 S Rahman to Ross Taylor , no run , flighted on off , Taylor push-drives it towards cover , the fielder dives to his right and fields it 20.4 S Rahman to Ross Taylor , no run , quicker and around off , Taylor knocks it from the crease to point 20.3 S Rahman to Guptill , 1 run , cuts it hard and picks out the fielder at sweeper cover 20.2 S Rahman to Ross Taylor , 1 run , slider close to off , Taylor pushes it between cover and point for a quick single 20.1 S Rahman to Guptill , 1 run , tad short and Guptill cuts it to sweeper cover , for a single Sabbir Rahman , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 19.6 Soumya Sarkar to Guptill , 1 run , shortens the length , Guptill punches to sweeper cover and retains strike 19.5 Soumya Sarkar to Guptill , no run , on a length just outside off , Guptill flays it straight to cover , no timing on that whatsoever 19.4 Soumya Sarkar to Guptill , no run , short of length on the fourth stump , Guptill knocks it to mid-off. He looked a bit uncomfortable after playing that shot. He might be cramping up 19.3 Soumya Sarkar to Ross Taylor , 1 run , full and on off , Taylor leans forward and whips it to deep backward square leg 19.2 Soumya Sarkar to Ross Taylor , no run , back of a length on off , Taylor taps it with an open bat face to point 19.1 Soumya Sarkar to Guptill , 1 run , this might have been the slower delivery from Sarkar , Guptill had to wait before slapping it square of the wicket on the off-side 18.6 Rubel to Ross Taylor , FOUR , poor delivery to end the over. Just releases all the pressure he had built up. Short and outside off , Taylor cuts it hard and in the air , the ball was just a couple of metres to the right of third man , but he still could n't get there 18.5 Rubel to Ross Taylor , no run , slightly fuller and on the fourth stump , Taylor pushes it to mid-off , no chance for the single as he hit it a bit too well 18.4 Rubel to Ross Taylor , no run , back of a length on off , Taylor knocks it down the wicket 18.3 Rubel to Ross Taylor , no run , Taylor guides this with an angled bat towards backward point , the fielder dives to his left and stops the run A slip in place now for Taylor 18.2 Rubel to Guptill , 1 run , shortens the length around off , Guptill goes on his toes and punches it to sweeper cover 18.1 Rubel to Guptill , FOUR , edged and four ! Rubel jumps away in disappointment. Back of a length just outside off , Guptill hangs his bat away from the body , the outside edge flies to the right of Rahim , who dived full length but could n't get there 17.6 Soumya Sarkar to Ross Taylor , no run , hint of shape into the batsman , Taylor turns it to short mid-wicket 17.5 Soumya Sarkar to Ross Taylor , no run , back of a length around off , Taylor wrists it to short mid-wicket 17.4 Soumya Sarkar to Guptill , 1 run , short of length on off , punched down to long-on 17.3 Soumya Sarkar to Ross Taylor , 1 run , on a length close to off , Taylor punches it to mid-on and sets off immediately , makes it with ease even though there was a direct hit 17.2 Soumya Sarkar to Ross Taylor , no run , good length ball on off , blocked to the right of the bowler 17.1 Soumya Sarkar to Guptill , 1 run , back of a length on off Guptill nurdles it to the left of short fine , for a single Soumya Sarkar , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Bangladesh could have taken the wicket of Guptill too , but they did n't go for the review after the on-field umpire turned down an appeal for LBW. It was Guptill and Ross Taylor , who then played with a mature head on their shoulders to help New Zealand resurrect their fortunes. Guptill also reached his fifty . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the first 17 overs : Bangladesh opened with spinners at both ends. However , Martin Guptill looked to take on the spinners by showcasing good footwork and using the crease to play a volley of fine shots. Brendon McCullum , Guptill 's opening partner , has been in spectacular form in this World Cup. But he tried to play one shot too many and was dismissed by Shakib Al Hasan. Shakib followed it up by taking the wicket of the fulcrum of New Zealand 's batting line-up , Kane Williamson. It was a good strategy to bowl spin at McCullum as New Zealand 's skipper likes pace on the ball . That will be the first drinks break . 16.6 Rubel to Ross Taylor , no run , bumper just outside off , Taylor watches it sail past him 16.5 Rubel to Ross Taylor , no run , good length ball around off , Taylor presents the straight bat and defends to cover 16.4 Rubel to Ross Taylor , no run , short of length on off , Taylor is hurried onto that , he bunts it to cover 16.3 Rubel to Ross Taylor , no run , this time connects with the cut , but no timing on that , chops it to backward point 16.2 Rubel to Ross Taylor , no run , Rubel gets it a bit closer to the off-stump , Taylor presses forward and shoulders arms 16.1 Rubel to Ross Taylor , no run , bit of movement for Rubel , it was short though , Taylor flashes a cut and is beaten. He should have probably let that go Rubel Hossain [ 3.0-0-15-0 ] is back into the attack 15.6 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , no run , Taskin gets away with one , or we can say Guptill missed out on one. Short and outside off , Guptill square drives it straight to backward point 15.5 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , no run , good length ball on off , Guptill punches it to mid-on and calls " wait there " 15.4 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , no run , fuller and holds its line , Guptill went for the clip through the leg-side , closed the bat face little too early , the soft leading edge rolls to the left of Taskin 15.3 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , FOUR , short and enough room on offer for Guptill to free his arms , he cracks the cut behind point , no chance for the third man fielder to get across and stop the ball 15.2 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , no run , back of a length around off , Guptill punches it to backward point 15.1 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , no run , good length ball in the channel around off , Guptill lifts his bat and lets it go 14.6 T Islam to Guptill , 1 run , pitches on leg and turns away , Guptill goes back to defend , the ball squirts off the outside half to sweeper cover 14.5 T Islam to Ross Taylor , 1 run , backs away and provides himself some room to cut it to sweeper cover 14.4 T Islam to Ross Taylor , FOUR , Taylor says enough of nudging and prodding. Kneels down for the flighted delivery on leg-stump and sweeps it over backward square , once he got it over the infield the short boundaries did the rest 14.3 T Islam to Ross Taylor , no run , leans forward and works it straight to the backward square fielder 14.2 T Islam to Ross Taylor , no run , knocks it back to the bowler 14.1 T Islam to Ross Taylor , no run , Taijul starts from over the wicket , Taylor bends his front knee and paddles it to short fine , finds the fielder there Russell Arnold gives this stat on air , these two teams have played 6 times in New Zealand and the home side have won all the games . 13.6 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , no run , attacking the stumps now , Guptill turns it gently to the on-side , where the short mid-wicket fielder tidies up 13.5 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , no run , short of length on off , Guptill defends it to the off-side , shouts " no " for the single 13.4 Taskin Ahmed to Ross Taylor , 1 run , once more Taskin digs it in midway down the pitch , Taylor swivels and pulls it along the ground to deep square leg 13.3 Taskin Ahmed to Ross Taylor , no run , good short delivery , Taylor shuffled across and managed to sway away from the line. The square leg umpire signals one for the over 13.2 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , leg byes , 1 run , Taskin drifts one onto the pads , Guptill ca n't lay bat on the flick , takes a leg bye as the ball thuds off the pads 13.1 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , FOUR , hammered ! That came right off the meat of the bat. Banged in halfway down the wicket , Guptill pivots on the back foot and pulls it in front of square , Mahmudullah ca n't reach in time to stop the ball 12.6 T Islam to Ross Taylor , no run , just when I thought he plays the cut shot superbly , he misses out on one. This bounced a bit extra and that is what undid the attempted cut from Taylor 12.5 T Islam to Ross Taylor , FOUR , some of the Bangladeshi fielders shouted " catch it " , but it was well wide of the fielder. Taylor seems to have mastered the cut shot , goes back in the crease and cuts it in the air to the left of backward point 12.4 T Islam to Ross Taylor , no run , comes down the track and drives it to cover 12.3 T Islam to Guptill , 1 run , slightly short and on off , kept a bit low , but since it was slow , Guptill was able to adjust and pull it to deep mid-wicket 12.2 T Islam to Ross Taylor , 1 run , floated up around off , Taylor drops it to cover-point and scampers across to the other end 12.1 T Islam to Ross Taylor , no run , throws this up and gets some turn , Taylor is right behind that as he blocks it to cover 11.6 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , FOUR , super shot to end the over. It was overpitched outside off , Guptill presents the full face of the bat , drives it past diving Shakib at mid-off , the sweet timing takes it to the fence 11.5 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , 2 runs , that is the third time today the fielder does not pick up the ball , Guptill dabs this towards third man , who just loses it in the background. By the time he spots the ball , the batsmen hurry back for the second 11.4 Taskin Ahmed to Ross Taylor , 1 run , back of a length on middle , Taylor tucks it behind square leg , for a run 11.3 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , 1 run , consecutive fifties for Guptill. Just raises his bat to the dressing room , Taylor shakes his hand and it is back to business. Shortens the length around off , Guptill drops it in front of point , calls for the single and gets the desired response from Taylor 11.2 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , no run , good length ball on the fourth stump line , Guptill presses it to cover after coming forward 11.1 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , no run , short of length and Taskin gets away with a leg-stump delivery , Guptill ca n't nail the flick , wears it on the thigh pad 10.6 T Islam to Ross Taylor , no run , flighted just outside off , Taylor goes for the drive with laden feet , the outside edge dribbles to the right of short third man 10.5 T Islam to Guptill , 1 run , flatter and around off , punched down to long-off 10.4 T Islam to Guptill , FOUR , fabulous shot ! First , it was very close to the off-stump and second he bisected the two fielders behind point to perfection. Trifle short , Guptill uses the depth of the crease and cuts it between backward point and short third 10.3 T Islam to Guptill , no run , plays an extended forward defence to cover 10.2 T Islam to Ross Taylor , 1 run , slows this up on off , Taylor hangs back and wrists it to long-on 10.1 T Islam to Ross Taylor , 2 runs , Taijul is bowling it quicker , Taylor goes back and punches it to cover , the fielder dives to his left and takes the pace off the ball for Mahmudullah to chase down 9.6 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , no run , the first fuller delivery Taskin has bowled in the over , Guptill goes hard on the drive , mistimes it to point 9.5 Taskin Ahmed to Ross Taylor , 1 run , short and close to off , Taylor was cramped for room , but still goes through with the cut , gets it down to third man 9.4 Taskin Ahmed to Ross Taylor , no run , back of a length just outside off , defended down the wicket 9.3 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , 1 run , again , the length is short , this time the ball holds its line , Guptill looks to force it off the back foot , the outside edge rolls down to third man 9.2 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , no run , back of a length on the fourth stump line , Guptill bunts it to cover off the back foot 9.1 Taskin Ahmed to Guptill , FOUR , what a shot ! He did n't try to hit it hard , just relied on timing. Short of a length around off , Guptill plays a short-arm punch and the ball races away through extra cover , Shakib had no chance catching up with that Taskin Ahmed , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 8.6 T Islam to Ross Taylor , no run , once again Taylor comes half-forward and dead-bats it to the off-side 8.5 T Islam to Ross Taylor , no run , drags the length back and gets it to straighten , Taylor was a bit surprised , but does well to defend to the on-side 8.4 T Islam to Ross Taylor , 2 runs , goes on with the angle from round the wicket , Taylor leans forward and nudges it to backward square leg , he called for two and got it comfortably 8.3 T Islam to Ross Taylor , no run , quicker and just outside off , Taylor dabs it to short third man , call is " wait on , wait on " for the single Long-on comes in and long-off goes back for Taylor 8.2 T Islam to Guptill , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Guptill knocks it past the diving mid-wicket fielder 8.1 T Islam to Guptill , no run , fraction short and outside off , Guptill cuts it straight to cover-point Taijul Islam [ 1.0-0-8-0 ] is back into the attack 7.6 Rubel to Guptill , 1 run , back of a length around off , Guptill rolls his wrists and works it to deep mid-wicket , for a single 7.5 Rubel to Guptill , no run , another punch and once more finds the fielder , Rubel goes back to bowling short of length , Guptill picks out Nasir Hossain at point 7.4 Rubel to Guptill , no run , back of a length close to off , Guptill punches without much timing to cover , hit high on the bat 7.3 Rubel to Guptill , no run , much better , Rubel pitches it further up and draws Guptill forward , defended to mid-on 7.2 Rubel to Guptill , FOUR , poor delivery and it deserved the treatment. Short and plenty of width on offer , Guptill hangs back and cuts it over backward point , the ball hurried to the fence in no time 7.1 Rubel to Guptill , no run , a certain spring in the fielding now. Back of a length around off , Guptill stands up and punches it towards cover , Sabbir dives to his left and stops the ball going any further 6.6 Shakib to Ross Taylor , no run , nice loopy delivery , Taylor leans forward and bunts it in front of cover-point 6.5 Shakib to Ross Taylor , no run , slows this up considerably , Taylor stays back and blocks it down the wicket 6.4 Shakib to Guptill , 1 run , pushed through around off , Guptill punches it towards extra cover , where Nasir Hossain dives to his left and saves some more runs 6.3 Shakib to Guptill , no run , quicker and on off , Guptill presses forward and defends off the inner part to the right of Shakib 6.2 Shakib to Guptill , 2 runs , this time he manages to nurdle it wide of the backward square fielder , easy two 6.1 Shakib to Guptill , no run , straight roller on middle and leg , Guptill goes back and works it to backward square , straight to the fielder 5.6 Rubel to Guptill , 1 run , short of length on off , Guptill stays inside the line and tucks it to deep square leg 5.5 Rubel to Guptill , 2 runs , dug in midway down the wicket , Guptill jumps across and pulls with one leg in the air behind square leg , Taijul gets across , dives and saves a couple of runs 5.4 Rubel to Ross Taylor , 1 run , back of a length and just wide of off , Taylor punches it to the left of mid-off , where Shakib gives chase and keeps it down to a single 5.3 Rubel to Ross Taylor , no run , bit of shape into the batsman for Rubel , Taylor prods forward and is pinged high on the pad 5.2 Rubel to Ross Taylor , no run , short of length on off , Taylor goes back and across , defends it down the wicket 5.1 Rubel to Guptill , 3 runs , on a length just outside off , Guptill drives it on-the-up to the left of cover , Nasir Hossain gives chase and hauls it in just before the rope. The batsmen had enough time to come back for three 4.6 Shakib to Ross Taylor , no run , flighted on off , Taylor comes down the track straightaway , is not to the pitch as he defends it to cover A slip , leg slip and a short leg in place. Bangladesh on the attack. . Ross Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 4.5 Shakib to Williamson , out Caught by Tamim ! ! Trouble for New Zealand ! Both the in-form batsmen are back in the hut. Shakib is delighted as he claps in excitement. It was short alright , but the ball does not come on , Williamson can not control the cut shot , hits it in the air to cover-point , Tamim moves slightly to his left and pouches it. Williamson c Tamim b Shakib 1 ( 2 ) Shakib to Williamson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 4.4 Shakib to Guptill , 1 run , nice floaty delivery outside off , Guptill reaches out and drives it to long-off 4.3 Shakib to Guptill , FOUR , lovely shot ! It was flatter and just outside off , Guptill was moving forward , but goes back quickly and punches it through extra cover , the rich timing takes it to the fence 4.2 Shakib to Williamson , 1 run , slider on middle , Williamson moves across and nudges it in front of square on the leg-side Kane Williamson , right handed bat , comes to the crease Coming back to the Guptill LBW appeal , he did n't get an inside edge onto pad. In fact , he hit his bat onto the pad , that made the umpire believe he got some bat. Bangladesh did n't review it and Guptill is still out there . 4.1 Shakib to Brendon McCullum , out Caught by Soumya Sarkar ! ! Big wicket ! Excellent captaincy from Shakib , kept himself on even though he took a pasting in the previous over. He gets his counterpart. Tossed up delivery around off , McCullum is not to the pitch of the ball , still goes through with the loft , hits it straight to the man at long-off. Brendon McCullum c Soumya Sarkar b Shakib 8 ( 8 ) [ 4s-1 ] Shakib to Brendon McCullum , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 3.6 Rubel to Guptill , no run , loud shout for lbw , but umpire Kettleborough shakes his head. First ball that swung a bit for Rubel , tails back in from a fuller length , Guptill leans forward and inside edges it onto the pads. That is the only thing that saved him there , otherwise he was right in front of middle-stump 3.5 Rubel to Guptill , no run , good length ball on off , Guptill plays it round his pads and pushes it to mid-on , had he missed that , he would have been dead in front of the stumps 3.4 Rubel to Guptill , no run , short of length around off , Guptill stands tall and punches it to mid-off 3.3 Rubel to Guptill , 2 runs , back of a length on off , Guptill shuffles across , gets inside the line and tucks it through the vacant mid-wicket region for a brace A slip and gully in place. . 3.2 Rubel to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , McCullum missed out there , nice juicy full toss on off , McCullum knocks it to mid-off , for only a single 3.1 Rubel to Brendon McCullum , no run , fast bowler on and McCullum is racing down the track straightaway , it is back of a length on middle , McCullum goes for a wild swing and fails to make contact. Nice carry to Rahim Rubel Hossain , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 2.6 Shakib to Guptill , FOUR , this time it is too short and Guptill was onto it in a flash , he transfers his weight onto the back foot and hammers the pull in front of square , one bounce and into the fence. 16 runs off the over 2.5 Shakib to Guptill , no run , touch short and outside off , Guptill cuts and picks out backward point 2.4 Shakib to Guptill , SIX , dropped in the crowd. Another well flighted delivery , Guptill gets to the pitch of the ball and launches it over long-on for the second six of the over. The spectator goes with one-hand to take it and puts it down 2.3 Shakib to Guptill , no run , Shakib not afraid to toss it up , Guptill presses forward and blocks it to the off-side 2.2 Shakib to Guptill , SIX , massive hit ! That is the way you need to play them. Takes a couple of steps down the pitch , meets the pitch of the ball and sends the pick up shot soaring over the wide long-on fence 2.1 Shakib to Guptill , no run , goes straight on , Guptill moves forward and defends it down the wicket 1.6 T Islam to Guptill , 1 run , sliding on with the angle from round the wicket , Guptill gets inside the line and nurdles it to square leg to open his account 1.5 T Islam to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , tossed up just outside off , McCullum eases the drive to long-off 1.4 T Islam to Brendon McCullum , no run , floated up around off , McCullum shuffles back and across , defends to the left of the bowler 1.3 T Islam to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , McCullum is underway , Taijul drops it short and Baz had plenty of time to rock back and pull it on the bounce to the deep mid-wicket fence A slip and short cover are the two catching fielders. . 1.2 T Islam to Brendon McCullum , no run , slower through the air , McCullum is early into the punch , knocks it to short cover 1.1 T Islam to Brendon McCullum , 2 runs , straightaway drags the length back and gets it to turn , McCullum goes back in the crease and dabs it off the outside half wide of the slip fielder Taijul Islam , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack No pace on offer for McCullum. Taijul to share the attack with Shakib . 0.6 Shakib to Guptill , no run , maiden ! Excellent start by Shakib. Flighted and bit of turn , Guptill prods forward and defends off the outer half to point 0.5 Shakib to Guptill , no run , bit more air just outside off , Guptill drives and the cover fielder dives to his right to keep the batsmen at their respective ends 0.4 Shakib to Guptill , no run , arm-ball that skids on after pitching , Guptill hangs back and punches it to cover 0.3 Shakib to Guptill , no run , pushed through a bit quicker than the previous deliveries , Guptill goes back and punches it to Shakib 0.2 Shakib to Guptill , no run , floated up just outside off , Guptill push-drives it to short cover 0.1 Shakib to Guptill , no run , nicely tossed up delivery around off , Guptill presses forward and blocks it to the off-side Guptill and Brendon McCullum are at the crease. Guptill is on strike. Shakib will open the attack A slip and leg slip in place. . The Bangladeshi players make their way to the middle. Tamim has a chat with Guptill. And surprise , surprise , it is Shakib to open the attack for Bangladesh. Guptill will take strike first up. The countdown starts and we are all set to get things underway. So , here we go.. . Welcome back.. Bangladesh have not lost to New Zealand in their last 8 games. The Kiwi middle-order has not been tested in the tournament. So , the match is set-up nicely at the moment. And here is a stat that would give the Bangladeshi supporters hope. Rubel Hossain has bowled 10 deliveries to McCullum in ODIs and has got him out thrice , conceding only 7 runs . The track is expected to get slower as the match progresses and the target may prove to be a tricky one to chase down. However , Bangladesh need to be wary of McCullum , as he has been in excellent form in this World Cup . The veteran left-arm spinner Daniel Vettori also made an impression with subtle variations of pace to keep the opposition in check in the middle overs. However , McClenaghan , who replaced the injured Adam Milne had a poor day. New Zealand also would rue the fact that Corey Anderson dropped a chance in the slip cordon to give Mahmudullah a reprieve when he was on one. On his part , Brendon McCullum backed up the pacers and gave them aggressive fields . From Bangladesh 's perspective , one has to remember that Soumya Sarkar counterattacked to lift their sagging morale after they lost wickets up front. He looked to free his arms outside the off-stump and whenever the pacers bowled short and wide , he clobbered it for boundaries square of the wicket on either side. Earlier , it was Boult and Tim Southee , who swung the new ball and extracted movement off the deck on a helpful track to create problems for the openers. Boult then , produced a superb delivery that shaped into the left-handed Imrul Kayes before it moved off the track to uproot the stumps. Boult also sent Tamim Iqbal back to the pavilion . Mahmudullah also showed that he is a street-smart cricketer as when Mitchell McClenaghan came into the attack , he waited for him to bowl a fuller length and played a lofted shot over mid-on in the 25th over. In the slog overs , he showed his class by clouting McClenaghan for a six and followed it up by smashing the same bowler for three more fours in the 47th over. Even Sabbir Rahman gave a good account of himself by thwacking a few eye-catching strokes during the end overs. He thrashed the wayward McClenaghan for a four and a six in the 45th over . Mahmudullah yet again shored up Bangladesh 's innings by compiling his second ton in successive matches to take them to a sizeable total on the board. He only became the second cricketer from Bangladesh to compose back-to-back hundreds in ODIs. After surviving a few nervous moments against the new ball , Mahmudullah , shone brightly by essaying drives and lofted shots. It was in the 14th over of the innings , when he looked to break the shackles by collecting three boundaries off Trent Boult . Mahmudullah is being congratulated by the BlackCaps. The whole of Seddon Park is on their feet applauding the effort from the Bangladeshi. Even when he got to his ton , McCullum and a couple of others clapped. Good sportsmanship shown. They know what a high-quality innings this has been. Also they know that they are in for a fight , perhaps for the first time in this World Cup. Remember they have n't chased over 200 in this World Cup . 49.6 Elliott to Mahmudullah , 1 run , Mahmudullah is early into the leg-side hoick , the ball comes on slower and takes the bottom edge , rolls to mid-off for a single and Bangladesh end on 288 Rubel Hossain , right handed bat , comes to the crease 49.5 Elliott to Nasir Hossain , out Caught by Ross Taylor ! ! Caught running back at point. Nasir Hossain 's slice that time goes up in the air and it looked to be landing safely , but Taylor running back took a well-judged catch over his shoulder. Not an easy catch , but he made it look easy. Nasir Hossain c Ross Taylor b Elliott 11 ( 7 ) [ 6s-1 ] Elliott to Nasir Hossain , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 49.4 Elliott to Nasir Hossain , SIX , McCullum running back from mid-off does n't do anything fancy this time , watches the ball goes over his head and sees it land beyond the boundary , when Hossain hit it , it looked like it went straight up in the air , but he has hit the slice well and another six in the last over of the innings 49.3 Elliott to Mahmudullah , 1 run , makes room and pulls the short of length delivery to deep mid-wicket , for a single 49.2 Elliott to Mahmudullah , SIX , massive blow ! Mahmudullah got under that as he went on one knee , swung it away over long-on , the ball lands well outside the spectator area , bounces away 49.2 Elliott to Mahmudullah , wide , well outside off , good take by Ronchi standing up 49.1 Elliott to Nasir Hossain , 1 run , low full toss , eased to sweeper cover , for a single 48.6 Southee to Mahmudullah , no run , well bowled ! Mahmudullah had made too much room outside leg , Southee fired it in full and it goes right through the legs of Mahmudullah , beating the batsman 's flick 48.5 Southee to Nasir Hossain , 1 run , Nasir Hossain makes room and drives hard , but straight to the fielder at extra cover , good stop too 48.4 Southee to Mahmudullah , 1 run , Mahmudullah toe-ends this along the ground to long-on 48.3 Southee to Mahmudullah , no run , excellent comeback from Southee , bowls a toe-crusher , Mahmudullah tries to dig it out as he backs away but misses 48.2 Southee to Mahmudullah , FOUR , clever , very clever from Mahmudullah ! Southee goes round the wicket and attempts a yorker , it goes as a low full toss , with fine leg inside the ring , Mahmudullah walks across the sticks and helps it on its way to the right of the man at 45 48.1 Southee to Nasir Hossain , 1 run , very full outside off , driven to long-off Tim Southee [ 9.0-1-44-0 ] is back into the attack 47.6 Elliott to Mahmudullah , 2 runs , Mahmudullah makes room and lofts , gets it over the fielder at cover , a couple of runs as the ball plugs in the outfield 47.5 Elliott to Nasir Hossain , 1 run , full on off , wristed to long-on , just the single 47.4 Elliott to Mahmudullah , 1 run , Mahmudullah hangs back and pulls to deep mid wicket , straight to the fielder 47.3 Elliott to Nasir Hossain , 1 run , wristed to deep mid-wicket Nasir Hossain , right handed bat , comes to the crease 47.2 Elliott to S Rahman , out Caught by Brendon McCullum ! ! Excellent take by McCullum at mid-off. Rahman hit that well and looked to have got it in the gap , but Baz ran to his left and clung on to a low chance. Cupped it without any fuss even as he tumbled over. End of a fine cameo from Rahman. S Rahman c Brendon McCullum b Elliott 40 ( 23 ) [ 4s-5 6s-2 ] Elliott to S Rahman , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 47.1 Elliott to S Rahman , SIX , Rahman joins in the fun now ! Down leg , swept away over fine leg , Rahman connecting really well with the hit. Elliott immediately under pressure Grant Elliott , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 46.6 McClenaghan to Mahmudullah , FOUR , make that three in a row. Picks the slower delivery , clears the left leg and heaves it over square leg , gets it in the gap and that 's an over that McClenaghan should forget in a hurry 46.5 McClenaghan to Mahmudullah , FOUR , shot ! Shot boy ! Full and well wide of off , Mahmudullah on a bent knee , reaches out and carves it along the ground , beating cover diving to his left and also beats the man in the deep , superb connection and Mahmudullah is just batting so beautifully 46.4 McClenaghan to Mahmudullah , FOUR , shortish outside off , Mahmudullah backs away and cuts deliberately in the air , beats the fielders inside the ring and gets a boundary. Now he will go for it Gets there with a well-timed drive to deep cover , two it was from the moment he hit it. Stretches his arms wide and jumps in the air , punches the air. Removes the helmet , the gloves and then has the heart symbol ala Gareth Bale and blows a kiss to someone. What celebrations and he is applauded by the Bangladeshi contingent. The healthy Bangladeshi crowd like it too . 46.3 McClenaghan to Mahmudullah , 2 runs , 100 for Mahmudullah ! Mahmudullah emulates Shahriar Nafees as he becomes the second Bangladeshi to get back-to-back tons in ODIs. Mahmudullah has done it in a World Cup. Against England and New Zealand. That makes it special. He can rightly take a bow. Two high quality innings , when the conditions were tough and against the likes of Anderson , Broad , Southee and Boult with the ball hooping around corners. Shows what a highly skilled player he is. Also technically so good too . 46.2 McClenaghan to S Rahman , 1 run , now Southee at long-off looks to get under that catch from Rahman. Runs full length forward and stretches his right-hand out to catch that , it was a low full toss and Rahman shuffling across completely mistimed that , in the end , Southee did n't even get a finger on it. But what an effort that is 46.1 McClenaghan to Mahmudullah , 1 run , very full and eased down to long-off 45.6 Boult to Mahmudullah , 1 run , full and on off , flicked to deep mid-wicket , retains the strike with that run 45.5 Boult to Mahmudullah , no run , another slower delivery , Mahmudullah presses forward and defends solidly Now round the wicket 45.4 Boult to S Rahman , 1 run , now Boult falls over , nudged into the gap at short mid-wicket 45.3 Boult to S Rahman , FOUR , slower delivery outside off , wide too , Rahman slices the carve and gets it over Kane at point , the ball runs away to the fence in a hurry 45.2 Boult to Mahmudullah , 1 run , back of the hand yorker , slower ball too , dug out into the gap at short mid-wicket 45.1 Boult to S Rahman , 1 run , full on off , driven to long-off Trent Boult [ 9.0-3-48-2 ] is back into the attack 44.6 McClenaghan to S Rahman , 1 run , well outside off , full too , Rahman sits down to play the big drive , but does n't get under the ball , dribbles to long-off 44.5 McClenaghan to Mahmudullah , 1 run , driven to Guptill at extra cover , quick single taken 44.4 McClenaghan to S Rahman , 1 run , short and wide outside off , slapped straight to the fielder at sweeper cover , only a single Back over the wicket now 44.3 McClenaghan to S Rahman , FOUR , how many times McClenaghan will fall over after delivering the ball ? Bowls a full toss , Rahman hits it well and gets it wide of the diving fielder at mid-on 44.2 McClenaghan to S Rahman , SIX , smashed ! Short ball and it sits up for Rahman , who clobbers the pull over long-on. Connected really well Now round the wicket 44.1 McClenaghan to Mahmudullah , 1 run , full and wide outside off , Mahmudullah reaches out and drives it to sweeper cover Mitchell McClenaghan [ 6.0-0-38-0 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Corey Anderson to S Rahman , no run , short of length and angled across Rahman , who plays a wild swing and a miss 43.5 Corey Anderson to S Rahman , no run , well bowled , inswinging yorker , kept out by Rahman 43.4 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , 1 run , short and outside off , cut to sweeper cover 43.3 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , FOUR , Boult lost his balance and his footing to give away the boundary. Swung away by Mahmudullah and Boult was going for the catch at deep square leg , but realised he wo n't get there , stopped , but lost his footing , the ball slips away to the fence 43.2 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , no run , back of a length outside off , punched straight to the fielder at cover 43.1 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , 2 runs , Mahmudullah makes room and then goes over cover , not so well-timed and Baz hunts it down 42.6 Southee to S Rahman , no run , slower delivery , Rahman waits for it and dabs it to point , asked to wait by Mahmudullah 42.5 Southee to S Rahman , FOUR , Southee wo n't like that at all. It was an inswinging yorker on off , was tailing in , Rahman played that with a closed face , just about got some bat on it , the ball raced away to the third man fence for the third four of the over 42.4 Southee to S Rahman , no run , goes for another big hit , but misses. Full and outside off , bit of shape away , Rahman lofts and misses 42.3 Southee to S Rahman , FOUR , make that another four ! Rahman saw the width and carved it up and over point. Over the leaping fielder , beats sweeper cover running to his left 42.2 Southee to S Rahman , FOUR , Southee has been hammered straight down the ground. Rahman playing a big hit as he saw the full length , past the stumps and beats both the fielders at mid-off and mid-on 42.1 Southee to Mahmudullah , 1 run , drop-and-run to point , quick single taken Tim Southee [ 8.0-1-31-0 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Corey Anderson to S Rahman , no run , slower delivery on off , pushed softly to short cover 41.5 Corey Anderson to S Rahman , 2 runs , Rahman plays a big shot and gets away , over mid-on , couple of runs Lots of spectators are getting sprayed on by the volunteers. The reason ? Because there are all kinds of insects buzzing around Seddon Park today 41.4 Corey Anderson to S Rahman , no run , on a good length and outside off , left alone 41.3 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , 1 run , width outside off , Mahmudullah punches off the front foot to sweeper cover 41.2 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , no run , was there a tiny snick on that ? Short and wide outside off , Mahmudullah went hard on the cut and there was a noise as the ball went past bat , but it did n't carry to Ronchi 41.1 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , no run , on a length and outside off , defended to point 40.6 McClenaghan to Mahmudullah , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Mahmudullah drives past the diving cover , single taken 40.5 McClenaghan to Mahmudullah , no run , slower delivery from McClenaghan , Mahmudullah gets forward to defend and gets an inside edge onto the pads 40.4 McClenaghan to Mahmudullah , no run , back of a length outside off , Mahmudullah completely mistimes the drive , to cover , McClenaghan falls over in his followthrough once more 40.3 McClenaghan to Mahmudullah , SIX , looked like Mahmudullah was waiting for the short ball , once it arrived , he was on the front foot and just smashed it flat over deep backward square leg 40.2 McClenaghan to Mahmudullah , 2 runs , Mahmudullah gets forward and whips this to deep backward square leg , in the gap and races back for the second 40.1 McClenaghan to Mahmudullah , no run , back of a length , outside off , Mahmudullah gets forward and drives it straight to the fielder at mid-off Mitchell McClenaghan [ 5.0-0-29-0 ] is back into the attack 39.6 Corey Anderson to S Rahman , no run , back of a length on the stumps , Rahman defends and the ball bounces into the ground , misses the stumps and rolls to Ronchi 39.5 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , 1 run , full outside off , driven wide of McCullum at mid-off , quick single taken 39.4 Corey Anderson to S Rahman , 1 run , swings into the pads of Rahman who flicks it to fine leg , to get off the mark 39.3 Corey Anderson to S Rahman , no run , pitched up outside off , left alone Sabbir Rahman , right handed bat , comes to the crease 39.2 Corey Anderson to Rahim , out Caught by Ronchi ! ! Corey Anderson gets another. Ronchi takes it. Rahim took a step out and then made room to cut that , but it was the cutter , from Corey Anderson , cross-seam as well , bit of extra bounce takes the edge on the shot and a dolly to Ronchi. Another setback for Bangladesh. Rahim c Ronchi b Corey Anderson 15 ( 25 ) [ 4s-2 ] Corey Anderson to Rahim , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 39.1 Corey Anderson to Rahim , no run , pitched up outside off , Rahim presses forward to drive and mistimes it back to Corey Anderson 38.6 Vettori to Mahmudullah , 2 runs , shortish outside off , Mahmudullah delays the cut and sends it to deep backward point , two it is 38.5 Vettori to Rahim , 1 run , Rahim comes down the track and drives wide of long-off , only a single 38.4 Vettori to Rahim , FOUR , good sweep shot ! Kneels down and sweeps powerfully , no-one at deep mid-wicket and Rahim will get a boundary. It was a calculated risk and it paid off 38.3 Vettori to Rahim , no run , down leg , swept straight to the fielder at short fine By the way , 37 came off the batting powerplay 38.2 Vettori to Rahim , no run , arches back and cuts , but point slides to his left to field 38.1 Vettori to Rahim , no run , turned straight to the fielder at short mid-wicket 37.6 Corey Anderson to Rahim , 1 run , Rahim reaches out and gets a bottom edge on the cut , beats slip and gets a single to third man 37.5 Corey Anderson to Rahim , no run , back of a length outside off , defended to point 37.4 Corey Anderson to Rahim , FOUR , width on offer and Rahim cashes in , stays back and cuts it to the left of point , third man had too much ground to cover and had no chance 37.3 Corey Anderson to Rahim , 2 runs , the pressure has got to Rahim and he attempts the release shot. Down the track and tries to loft , gets it off the bottom of the bat , McCullum runs to his right from mid-off and dives full length to his right , leaps to catch that , but fails to get even a finger on that. Had he taken that , it would 've been the catch of the tournament. But full marks for that effort 37.2 Corey Anderson to Rahim , no run , back of a length outside off , defended to point 37.1 Corey Anderson to Rahim , no run , shortish outside off , Rahim completely mistimes the cut to point 36.6 Vettori to Mahmudullah , no run , defended back to the bowler 36.5 Vettori to Mahmudullah , FOUR , Vettori is n't happy. Guptill at short mid-wicket was anticipating to his right and moved , but the airy shot went to his left and beat the man in the deep too. If Guptill had stayed there , he would 've had a chance to catch it 36.4 Vettori to Rahim , 1 run , now Rahim gets forward to drive to long-off 36.3 Vettori to Rahim , no run , punched with an open face , but straight to the fielder at point 36.2 Vettori to Rahim , no run , Rahim tries to be cute and cheeky , this is the arm ball from Vettori , drifted in and beat Rahim 's attempt to glide it down to third man 36.1 Vettori to Mahmudullah , 1 run , flatter outside off , punched to sweeper cover 35.6 Corey Anderson to Rahim , no run , good over. Just the one off it in the powerplay as Rahim hops and defends to point 35.6 Corey Anderson to Rahim , wide , but slips this down leg 35.5 Corey Anderson to Rahim , no run , second time today that Corey Anderson has pushed it wider after he sees the batsman advance , inside the guideline too and it 's a dot 35.4 Corey Anderson to Rahim , no run , short of length on the stumps , Rahim looks to work to leg , a soft leading and the ball dribbles to short cover 35.3 Corey Anderson to Rahim , no run , back of a length outside off , Rahim hops back and dabs to point 35.2 Corey Anderson to Rahim , no run , full outside off , Rahim 's bat turns in his hand as he drives it back to the bowler 35.1 Corey Anderson to Rahim , no run , pitched up outside off , left alone 34.6 Vettori to Rahim , 1 run , full down leg , flicked to deep square leg 34.5 Vettori to Mahmudullah , 1 run , punched to long-off 34.4 Vettori to Mahmudullah , SIX , calculated hit ! Mahmudullah gets inside the line and sweeps powerfully over backward square leg , goes all the way and an attempt is made to catch it one-handed by a spectator leaning forward , but fails to hold on. Had he held on , he would 've gone into the pool that would give him a chance to earn a million NZ dollars , if NZ reach the final 34.3 Vettori to Rahim , 1 run , fraction short outside off , Rahim punches to deep backward point 34.2 Vettori to Rahim , no run , Rahim opts to play that off the back foot and edges it onto the boot , the ball rolls to the right of Ronchi 34.1 Vettori to Mahmudullah , 1 run , flatter and outside off , punched off the back foot to long-on Daniel Vettori [ 7.0-0-19-1 ] is back into the attack Mushfiqur Rahim , right handed bat , comes to the crease 33.6 Corey Anderson to Shakib , out Caught by Ronchi ! ! A wide had he left that , but Shakib has edged it. Went down on his knee , looking to slog , gets a tiny toe-end. Very tiny , but definitely an edge. Shakib thinks about the review , but walks off. A big wicket that. Shakib c Ronchi b Corey Anderson 23 ( 18 ) [ 4s-3 ] Corey Anderson to Shakib , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 33.6 Corey Anderson to Shakib , wide , way outside off , Shakib slashes and misses 33.5 Corey Anderson to Shakib , FOUR , what happened there ? Baz at mid-off did n't pick it up at all , he had lost it and had his hands up as the ball went close to his left-boot. Flat-batted by Shakib and it was in the air , but McCullum lost the ball in the background 33.4 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , 1 run , back of a length and Mahmudullah goes back to whip it to fine leg 33.3 Corey Anderson to Shakib , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Shakib hammers a cut to deep backward point , but there is a man out there 33.2 Corey Anderson to Shakib , 2 runs , does n't get hold of the pull , but gets it in the vacant mid-wicket area. Two more 33.1 Corey Anderson to Shakib , FOUR , and first ball Shakib gets a boundary. Not very convincing , but he will take it , comes down the track and looks to heave over leg , gets a thick outside edge that evades a leaping Ronchi to his left Batting powerplay taken by Bangladesh Mitchell McClenaghan generally looked to bowl back of a length , but when he bowled a fuller length , Mahmudullah and Sarkar collected boundaries. Both Sarkar and Mahmudullah also amassed fifties. Unfortunately for Bangladesh , Sarkar threw his wicket away after composing a fine half-century by getting out to Vettori. The wicket is expected to get slower as the day progresses and Bangladesh look set to post a good total on the board . Soumya Sarkar and Mahmudullah continued to frustrate New Zealand 's pace bowlers. Brendon McCullum introduced Daniel Vettori into the attack and he bowled a few tight overs. The credit has to go to Sarkar and Mahmudullah for looking to counterattack when up against quality pacers and then rotating the strike to keep the scorecard moving . Drinks time and it 's time for Bharath to get going 32.6 Boult to Mahmudullah , no run , pitched up outside off , Mahmudullah throws his bat at that and misses the drive. Boult falls down after delivering the ball , but no damage done Now round the wicket for the last ball 32.5 Boult to Mahmudullah , no run , short and Mahmudullah ducks under that 32.4 Boult to Shakib , 1 run , flicked wide of Southee at mid-on , quick single taken 32.3 Boult to Shakib , 2 runs , Mitch McClenaghan has done a fabulous job to save the boundary. Cut hard and in the air , McClenaghan ran from third man and dived full length to his left to pull it back , keeps it to two. His effort is applauded by the bowler who claps 32.2 Boult to Shakib , no run , back of a length outside off , defended to point Boult has two slips 32.1 Boult to Shakib , FOUR , Shakib welcomes Boult back with a fine cut shot. Short and wide outside off , Shakib whiplashes a cut and beats Elliott on the dive at point Trent Boult [ 8.0-3-41-2 ] is back into the attack 31.6 Corey Anderson to Shakib , 1 run , short outside off , Shakib rolls his wrists on the pull and sends it to deep mid-wicket 31.5 Corey Anderson to Shakib , no run , Corey Anderson tucks up Shakib with a back of a length delivery on off , defended 31.4 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , 1 run , short and Mahmudullah rocks back to pull to deep backward square leg 31.3 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , no run , well bowled ! Saw Mahmudullah charging him and bowled it full and wide outside off , Mahmudullah eventually lets it go 31.2 Corey Anderson to Shakib , 1 run , back of a length on off , wristed through square leg for a single 31.1 Corey Anderson to Shakib , 2 runs , wristed wide of Vettori at mid-on , the batsmen wanted three , but Vettori does well to get the ball back quickly. Two it is Corey Anderson [ 3.0-0-5-0 ] is back into the attack 30.6 Southee to Mahmudullah , no run , back of a length outside off , left alone 30.5 Southee to Mahmudullah , no run , now solidly in behind that is Mahmudullah , on a good length and Mahmudullah confidently blocks to short cover 30.4 Southee to Mahmudullah , no run , Mahmudullah presses forward and punches it to mid-off 30.3 Southee to Mahmudullah , no run , that has gone over the top of middle ! Nips back in and goes through the bat and pad gap of Mahmudullah , appreciable movement for the bowler and the extra bounce saved the batsman. Southee is disappointed 30.2 Southee to Mahmudullah , no run , on a length , Mahmudullah presses forward to defend , gets an inside edge onto the pads , the ball rolls to short cover 30.1 Southee to Mahmudullah , no run , down leg , Mahmudullah misses the flick , off the thigh pad and that excited Southee for a caught behind appeal , Dharma gets it right and he has some problem with a fly immediately afterwards Tim Southee [ 7.0-0-31-0 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Vettori to Mahmudullah , 1 run , flatter and down leg , nudged to the left of short fine 29.5 Vettori to Shakib , 1 run , Shakib skips out and hits it to the left of Vettori , who dives , but can not stop it 29.4 Vettori to Shakib , no run , quicker now , Shakib defends 29.3 Vettori to Shakib , no run , tossed up on middle , Shakib pushes it to short mid-wicket 29.2 Vettori to Shakib , no run , Shakib gets a tad squared up and a thick leading edge drops down quickly and the ball is hunted down by short cover 29.1 Vettori to Mahmudullah , 1 run , Mahmudullah gets forward and pushes it through mid-wicket 28.6 Boult to Mahmudullah , 1 run , low full toss outside off , driven square of the wicket , for a single 28.5 Boult to Mahmudullah , no run , Mahmudullah presses it to mid-on , takes a step forward for the single , then sends Shakib back as he sees the fielder get to the ball Now over the wicket 28.4 Boult to Mahmudullah , no run , pitched up outside off , Mahmudullah 's bat turned as he went hard on the drive , straight to the fielder at mid-off Slip , gully and short cover for Boult as he continues from round the wicket 28.3 Boult to Mahmudullah , no run , back of a length outside off , Mahmudullah taps it to short cover 28.2 Boult to Mahmudullah , FOUR , Mahmudullah comes back well with a cracking drive. On-the-up too and Mahmudullah nailed it , driving sweetly through cover. Balance , poise and all timing 28.1 Boult to Mahmudullah , no run , first ball from Boult , off a new spell and he beats the batsman , on the drive , from round the wicket , angled in , on a fuller length , and then it moves away to beat the cover drive. So close to the outside edge too Trent Boult [ 7.0-3-36-2 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Vettori to Shakib , no run , flatter outside off , punched straight to the fielder at short cover 27.5 Vettori to Mahmudullah , 1 run , softly played to short mid-wicket. Both Vettori and Guptill went for the ball , Vettori left it to Gups , who hit direct , but Mahmudullah had judged it well , sliding his bat over the line. The BlackCaps were confident , but Mahmudullah knew he had made it and was n't too fussed Has Mahmudullah been run out ? Direct hit and the BlackCaps are confident. Guptill is the fielder. Mahmudullah has made it. Just in though. Gets to fifty too. Well played. He is continuing his good run . Shakib Al Hasan , left handed bat , comes to the crease 27.4 Vettori to Soumya Sarkar , out Caught by Corey Anderson ! ! Soumya Sarkar has thrown it away. Skips out , looking to smash Vettori out of the park , but can not get the elevation on the hit. It was quicker from Vettori , and Sarkar could n't get under that. Easy catch for long-on. Soumya Sarkar c Corey Anderson b Vettori 51 ( 58 ) [ 4s-7 ] Vettori to Soumya Sarkar , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 27.3 Vettori to Mahmudullah , 1 run , Mahmudullah comes down the track and whips that to deep mid-wicket , for a single 27.2 Vettori to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , on the back foot and nudged wide of the fielder behind square 27.1 Vettori to Soumya Sarkar , no run , Soumya Sarkar makes room and slices the cut from the stumps , the ball goes on the bounce to short third 26.6 Southee to Mahmudullah , no run , pitched up outside off , Mahmudullah gets forward to defend , the ball goes to point 26.5 Southee to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , maiden fifty for Soumya Sarkar and it 's a fine innings. Gets there with an open-faced push square of the wicket. Raises the bat and gets a good applause from the crowd. Took his risks early on and now is looking pretty solid 26.4 Southee to Soumya Sarkar , 2 runs , fraction short outside off , cut in the air , but in the gap at point for two more 26.3 Southee to Mahmudullah , 1 run , wide of the crease and angled in , worked away to deep square leg 26.2 Southee to Mahmudullah , 2 runs , Mahmudullah is early into the flick , closes the face of the bat and gets a thick leading edge through the vacant point region , Boult slides and then pulls it back to Anderson coming in. Nice tag-team work , results in only two 26.1 Southee to Mahmudullah , no run , outswinger , left alone Tim Southee [ 6.0-0-25-0 ] is back into the attack 25.6 Vettori to Soumya Sarkar , no run , Soumya Sarkar plays a drive , straight to the fielder at mid-off 25.5 Vettori to Mahmudullah , 1 run , now gets forward and wrists it in the gap at mid-wicket 25.4 Vettori to Mahmudullah , no run , lots of flight on that from Vettori , outside off , Mahmudullah gets forward to tap softly to short cover 25.3 Vettori to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , fraction short outside off , cut away to deep backward point 25.2 Vettori to Mahmudullah , 1 run , Mahmudullah works that in the gap at mid-wicket , for a single 25.1 Vettori to Mahmudullah , no run , Mahmudullah defends that off the back foot 24.6 McClenaghan to Soumya Sarkar , no run , now the outside edge falls short of the diving Ronchi. Soumya Sarkar opening the face on that and trying to run it down , luckily for him the edge did n't carry. Replays actually show it came off the left elbow of Sarkar and not the bat. Sarkar was rubbing his elbow as he felt the pain 24.5 McClenaghan to Soumya Sarkar , FOUR , fine batting by Soumya Sarkar. Shuffles across to off and whips the full ball over mid-wicket. Class and grace on display 24.4 McClenaghan to Soumya Sarkar , no run , dug in short once more , but down leg , Soumya Sarkar ducks under that one 24.3 McClenaghan to Soumya Sarkar , no run , dug in short and Soumya Sarkar sways away from the line , called one short ball for the over McClenaghan is stopped by Sarkar. The bowler has to rebowl that again 24.2 McClenaghan to Mahmudullah , 1 run , back of a length outside off , punched to sweeper cover 24.1 McClenaghan to Mahmudullah , FOUR , Mahmudullah brings up the 100 with a lofted hit over mid-on. Not hit well , but Mahmudullah dragged the loft , over the head of Nathan McCullum , the sub who has come on for Dan Vettori - just for an over 23.6 Vettori to Soumya Sarkar , no run , very full outside off , driven firmly to long-off 23.5 Vettori to Mahmudullah , 1 run , flighted delivery outside off , Mahmudullah gets forward and eases a drive to long-off 23.4 Vettori to Mahmudullah , no run , turned away to short fine leg , no chance of a quick single 23.3 Vettori to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , slower and Soumya Sarkar goes on the back foot to nudge to deep backward square leg 23.2 Vettori to Mahmudullah , 1 run , tossed up on middle , Mahmudullah gets forward and flicks to deep mid-wicket 23.1 Vettori to Mahmudullah , no run , Mahmudullah comes down the track and tries to work it to leg , misses and is hit on the thigh pad 22.6 McClenaghan to Soumya Sarkar , no run , Soumya Sarkar even while arching back , thought about ramping this short ball over the slips , but lets it go eventually 22.5 McClenaghan to Soumya Sarkar , no run , Soumya Sarkar shuffles across outside off , looks for something productive , but he has to push it to mid-on as the bowling is tight 22.4 McClenaghan to Soumya Sarkar , no run , yorker length outside off , Soumya Sarkar digs it out to short cover 22.3 McClenaghan to Mahmudullah , 1 run , angled in on the middle stump line , whipped away to fine leg 22.2 McClenaghan to Mahmudullah , no run , pitched up outside off , Mahmudullah gets forward and drives , but straight to the fielder at mid-off 22.1 McClenaghan to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , back of a length outside off , Soumya Sarkar shuffles across and then guides it to third man , the fielder gets across quickly and keeps it to a single 21.6 Vettori to Mahmudullah , no run , a bit quicker , turned to short mid-wicket 21.5 Vettori to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , fraction short outside off , Soumya Sarkar cuts to deep backward point 21.4 Vettori to Soumya Sarkar , no run , shortish outside off , sliced straight to the fielder at short third man 21.3 Vettori to Mahmudullah , 1 run , tossed up on off , Mahmudullah closes the face of the bat and nudges it to square leg , for a single 21.2 Vettori to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , slower and on middle and leg , softly turned to the square leg area , for a single 21.1 Vettori to Soumya Sarkar , no run , tucked to the right of short fine , Soumya Sarkar wanted a single , but Mahmudullah sends him back Daniel Vettori [ 2.0-0-4-0 ] is back into the attack 20.6 McClenaghan to Mahmudullah , no run , McClenaghan falls over , low full toss , wristed wide of mid-on , who dives and stops the ball 20.5 McClenaghan to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , Soumya Sarkar shuffles across and then softly nudges it to the short mid-wicket area 20.4 McClenaghan to Soumya Sarkar , no run , beaten for pace ! Back of a length and outside off , zips off the deck and beats Soumya Sarkar 's attempt to run it down to third man 20.3 McClenaghan to Soumya Sarkar , no run , back of a length outside off , Soumya Sarkar gets forward and drives , finds short cover 20.2 McClenaghan to Mahmudullah , 1 run , angled in from McClenaghan , Mahmudullah hops back and wrists it down in the vacant area at mid-wicket 20.1 McClenaghan to Mahmudullah , 2 runs , Mahmudullah skips out and mishits the big shot , beats mid-on 's dive , but Baz runs back from mid-off to keep it to two 19.6 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , 1 run , on a good length and outside off , Mahmudullah opens the face of the bat and square drives to deep backward point 19.5 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , no run , slow , loopy bouncer , Mahmudullah is early into the pull , misses 19.4 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , no run , tries to force a drive through cover , but finds short cover again 19.3 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , no run , back of a length outside off , Mahmudullah gets forward and defends to short cover 19.2 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , no run , dug in short , Mahmudullah wanted to pull initially , but then weaved his head away from the line of the ball 19.1 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , no run , on a good length and outside off , Mahmudullah gets forward to ease to mid-off 18.6 McClenaghan to Mahmudullah , 1 run , Mahmudullah is in position early for the pull and hits it well , but straight to the fielder at deep square leg 18.5 McClenaghan to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , hint of nip back in , Sarkar gets forward to defend , it runs off the inside half of the bat and a quick single taken as the ball rolls in front of mid-on 18.4 McClenaghan to Soumya Sarkar , no run , pitched up outside off , Soumya Sarkar gets forward and drives , straight to the fielder at mid-off Just the lone slip in place 18.3 McClenaghan to Soumya Sarkar , no run , dug in short , but down leg , Soumya Sarkar ducks under that 18.2 McClenaghan to Soumya Sarkar , no run , Soumya Sarkar is beaten now , on the outside edge , pitched up outside off , Sarkar did n't get forward fully and was late in connecting the shot 18.1 McClenaghan to Mahmudullah , 1 run , on a good length and outside off , Mahmudullah pushes it square of the wicket , for an easy single Mitchell McClenaghan [ 1.0-0-11-0 ] is back into the attack 17.6 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Mahmudullah gets forward and drives well to sweeper cover , but Elliott runs across to keep it to a single 17.5 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , no run , 'wait , wait ' is the call from Soumya Sarkar to Mahmudullah , after the latter defends wide of point , it 's fielded and there is no chance of a quick single 17.4 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , no run , looks to punch through the off-side , but stabs it back to Corey Anderson 17.3 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , no run , well outside off , easy leave 17.2 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , no run , Mahmudullah is beaten on the inside edge , swung in late and beat the flourishing drive , not far away from the off stump 17.1 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , no run , pitched up outside off , Mahmudullah drives it straight to the fielder at short cover 16.6 Vettori to Mahmudullah , 1 run , shortish again outside off , Mahmudullah rocks back to punch to sweeper cover 16.5 Vettori to Mahmudullah , no run , fraction short outside off , Mahmudullah cuts straight to the fielder at point 16.4 Vettori to Mahmudullah , no run , Mahmudullah gets forward and eases it towards long-on , Guptill dives across from short mid-wicket 16.3 Vettori to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , Soumya Sarkar skips out and works it to long-on 16.2 Vettori to Soumya Sarkar , no run , tossed up outside off , Soumya Sarkar softly dabs that towards point 16.1 Vettori to Mahmudullah , 1 run , shortish on the stumps , punched off the back foot to long-on It was Boult , who was duly rewarded for his efforts with the wicket of Kayes. He got the ball to shape it back into the left-handed batsman before it moved away off the track to shatter the stumps. Boult followed it up by sending Tamim back to the pavilion. Tamim has a habit of playing with an angled bat and he paid the price for it. Bangladesh could collect their first runs off Boult 's bowling only in his fourth over. It could have been even better for New Zealand , but Corey Anderson dropped a catch in the slip cordon to give Mahmudullah a reprieve off Southee. In the last game against England , Mahmudullah survived a testing spell from James Anderson upfront , but he had his fair share of luck with a few inside edges and he was reluctant to come forward. Today too he is camping on the back foot. For Bangladesh , Soumya Sarkar looked to take on the challenge of facing up to a quality attack and succeeded by essaying a quick-fire knock. In fact , it was his partnership with Mahmudullah that helped Bangladesh to recover . Southee also has a useful short delivery up his sleeve and he used it to trouble Kayes. Another factor to look at is that Southee bowls this scrambled seam delivery which he uses it as a variation. It was back in 2012 in a Test match in Bangalore when he used it extensively for the first time to take wickets and Sachin Tendulkar was one of the batsmen , who lost his wicket to Southee 's variation . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the first 16 overs : Trent Boult and Tim Southee swung the new ball and also extracted a bit of movement off the deck to trouble Bangladesh 's openers. Boult swung it away from the left-handed batsmen. On the other hand , Southee looked to bowl full and shape it back into the openers , with the odd delivery leaving Imrul Kayes and Tamim Iqbal. He even bowled a cracker of a yorker to Tamim. New Zealand 's pace duo of Southee and Boult generally bowled a fuller length with the new ball and Brendon McCullum backed them up by setting aggressive fields . Drinks are on the field now. The more I see that dive from McCullum in the last over , the more I 'm convinced , that it was totally unnecessary. He so easily could 've done serious harm to himself , either to his hand or to his head/neck while colliding with the ad-board. But that also shows how committed Baz is , not worrying about himself at all. The whole of New Zealand heaved a sigh of relief when McCullum got up unscathed there. New Zealand do n't want to lose their talismanic skipper at this stage of the World Cup. They lost Martin Crowe during the second innings of their semi-final loss to Pakistan. They would n't want history to repeat again . 15.6 Corey Anderson to Soumya Sarkar , no run , good length outside off , Soumya Sarkar gets forward and defends to short cover 15.5 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , 1 run , short of length outside off , punched off the back foot to sweeper cover 15.4 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , no run , on a length and outside off , Mahmudullah leans into a drive , but hits it straight to the fielder at mid-off 15.3 Corey Anderson to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Soumya Sarkar plays a cover drive in the air , but straight to the fielder at deep backward point 15.2 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , leg byes , 1 run , swinging down leg , off the pad and it 's a leg bye 15.2 Corey Anderson to Mahmudullah , leg byes , 1 run 15.1 Corey Anderson to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , low full toss outside off , swinging away , Soumya Sarkar reaches out and gets a thick inside edge on the drive , only a single Corey Anderson , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 14.6 Vettori to Mahmudullah , no run , slider , skidding on , Mahmudullah punches it back to Vettori 14.5 Vettori to Mahmudullah , no run , on a length and Mahmudullah gets forward to defend to short mid-wicket 14.4 Vettori to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , Soumya Sarkar gets forward and plays a drive square of the wicket , as Vettori tosses it up outside off 14.3 Vettori to Soumya Sarkar , no run , sliding across Soumya Sarkar on a full length , Soumya Sarkar opens the face of the bat and guides it to short third 14.2 Vettori to Soumya Sarkar , no run , punched off the back foot , but Baz at short mid-wicket is quick to get across 14.1 Vettori to Soumya Sarkar , no run , nudged to short fine , no chance of a quick single Daniel Vettori , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 13.6 Boult to Mahmudullah , 2 runs , Mahmudullah tried to pull out of that shot , but was late in doing so , instead he guides it to the right of the diving 2nd slip , half-stopped and it 's another couple Now round the wicket 13.5 Boult to Mahmudullah , FOUR , another boundary ! Mahmudullah stands tall and punches this wide of the diving gully fielder , once he got it in the gap , it was a boundary as there was no third man in place. Boult leaking runs now 13.4 Boult to Mahmudullah , FOUR , that is the first confident stroke from Mahmudullah today. Leans forward and just caresses the drive past short cover , Baz this time gave up the chase , but slipped outside the ad-cushions and fell , banged his knee into the ad-board , but no serious damage done though 13.3 Boult to Mahmudullah , 2 runs , dug in short and Mahmudullah rolls his wrists to pull it to deep backward square leg , for a couple 13.2 Boult to Mahmudullah , FOUR , sliced away , past the diving gully , it was in the air , but wide of the man , third man ca n't get across and Mahmudullah will get a boundary. Mahmudullah saw the width and reached out to play the shot 13.1 Boult to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , short of length on off , dabbed away in the gap at cover , for an easy single 12.6 McClenaghan to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Soumya Sarkar cuts that to sweeper cover 12.5 McClenaghan to Soumya Sarkar , FOUR , lovely shot from Soumya Sarkar. On-the-up , length ball outside off , Sarkar gets forward and drives , gets it in the gap and beats the fielder from third man. Really well-timed shot 12.4 McClenaghan to Mahmudullah , 1 run , short and wide outside off , flashed away to third man 12.3 McClenaghan to Mahmudullah , no run , back of a length outside off , dabbed in front of point , they do n't take the single , it was an easy run and they did n't go for it 12.2 McClenaghan to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , nudged wide of square leg , for a single 12.1 McClenaghan to Soumya Sarkar , FOUR , short and wide outside off , Soumya Sarkar cuts in the gap at cover , Baz hares after it and then unveils a full length dive , hand first , then thuds into the ad board as well , he looks at his right-hand. Guptill comes across and asks him whether he is fine , that was insane from Baz. He was in contact with the ad-cushions as he pulled the ball back , so it 's a four This is crazy from Baz. He is airborne as he dives full length to pull it back Mitchell McClenaghan , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 11.6 Boult to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , shuffles across a tad and flicks a full ball on off and middle to fine leg , retains the strike with that run 11.5 Boult to Soumya Sarkar , FOUR , width was there and Soumya Sarkar threw the bat at that , Sarkar flaying at a wide ball and it 's a one-bounce four to third man 11.4 Boult to Mahmudullah , 1 run , another inside edge as Boult went full , luckily for Mahmudullah , the ball misses leg stump and down to fine leg for a single 11.3 Boult to Mahmudullah , no run , loud shout for lbw from Boult , but that was slipping down leg , was a bit too high too as Mahmudullah got struck on the thigh pad , missed the inside edge as Mahmudullah went for the flick 11.2 Boult to Mahmudullah , no run , full and swinging down , the ball hits the pads of Mahmudullah who flicks and misses , missing leg 11.1 Boult to Mahmudullah , no run , pitched up outside off , Mahmudullah eyes a big drive and inside-edges to the first man at short mid-wicket 10.6 Southee to Soumya Sarkar , FOUR , Soumya Sarkar has a wry smile on his face , after nearly dragging on a harmless full toss , he drives and the inside edge misses leg stump and rattles to the fine leg fence. More disappointment for Southee 10.5 Southee to Mahmudullah , 1 run , wide of the crease , angled in , flicked to fine leg 10.4 Southee to Mahmudullah , no run , what a delivery. This is superb bowling. Angled in , forces Mahmudullah to push forward , had to play at it and then it seams away past the outside edge. Brilliant bowling 10.3 Southee to Mahmudullah , no run , fullish and swinging in , flicked to short mid-wicket , who dives to his left and stops 10.2 Southee to Mahmudullah , FOUR , dropped by Anderson at 2nd slip. The ball was flying and it burst through his hands. Mahmudullah reaches out and edges the square drive , it was travelling at speed to Anderson 's left , who was slow to react and fails to hang on. Southee is n't a happy man at all 10.1 Southee to Mahmudullah , no run , short of length on the stumps , Mahmudullah pushes out with hard hands and the ball drops in front of mid-on 9.6 Boult to Soumya Sarkar , no run , on leg stump , flicked to mid-wicket 9.6 Boult to Soumya Sarkar , wide , well down leg , wide called 9.5 Boult to Mahmudullah , 1 run , Guptill diving to his left , just about gets a finger on that , at short mid-wicket. He is one of the two men , placed by Baz for the uppish flick. Mahmudullah flicked that in the air and Guptill did n't hang on. Boult thought he had his man. Genius captaincy by Baz Mahmudullah , right handed bat , comes to the crease 9.4 Boult to Tamim , out Caught by Corey Anderson ! ! And there he goes. This time Boult bowled this on a back of a length and on off stump , bit of extra bounce and it held its line , Tamim edged the defensive stroke and a good low take at 2nd slip. Boult has two and he looks good for many more. Tamim c Corey Anderson b Boult 13 ( 27 ) [ 4s-2 ] Boult to Tamim , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 9.3 Boult to Tamim , no run , back to outswingers , left alone 9.2 Boult to Tamim , FOUR , too straight and the ball does n't swing this time , easy for Tamim as he flicks and beats Vettori at fine leg , Tamim just timed that and the quick outfield did the rest 9.1 Boult to Tamim , no run , outswinger , lovely movement away , Tamim shoulders arms 8.6 Southee to Soumya Sarkar , no run , slanted across Soumya Sarkar , on a length and the batsman shoulders arms 8.5 Southee to Soumya Sarkar , no run , Soumya Sarkar gets forward and defends a length ball towards mid-off 8.4 Southee to Soumya Sarkar , no run , cross-seamer now , angled across Soumya Sarkar , beats Sarkar on the drive , the ball nowhere close to the outside edge 8.3 Southee to Soumya Sarkar , FOUR , nice shot ! Full and wide outside off , Soumya Sarkar closes the face of the bat and goes wide of mid-on with a dragged loft , back-to-back boundaries 8.2 Southee to Soumya Sarkar , FOUR , look at that effort from Baz ! Soumya Sarkar just pushed it past his left at mid-off and Baz ran hard and almost pulled it back with a head-first dive , but could n't as the pace of the ball was too much 8.1 Southee to Soumya Sarkar , no run , dug in short , Soumya Sarkar ducks under that 7.6 Boult to Tamim , no run , that is a rash shot attempted ! Tamim charges Boult and looks to hit the bowler out of the attack , the bat meets thin air as Tamim swings and misses 7.5 Boult to Tamim , no run , pitched up outside off , driven well , but straight to the fielder at cover 7.4 Boult to Tamim , FOUR , lovely flick from Tamim. Boult drifts it down leg , overcompensated there and Tamim gets it away , beating Vettori at fine leg 7.3 Boult to Soumya Sarkar , 3 runs , first runs off Boult. It has come off his 21st delivery of the spell. Soumya Sarkar shuffles across well outside off and then looks to flick , gets a thick leading edge over point , two fielders chase and one pulls it back before the ball hits the ad-cushions 7.2 Boult to Soumya Sarkar , no run , another ball beats the outside edge , Soumya Sarkar pushing out very tentatively at an outswinger and the ball beats the bat 7.1 Boult to Soumya Sarkar , no run , on a length and on the stumps , defended to point 6.6 Southee to Tamim , no run , pushed well across Tamim , left alone 6.5 Southee to Soumya Sarkar , 1 run , flies through the gully region , on a full length and on the stumps , Soumya Sarkar gets forward to drive and gets lucky 6.4 Southee to Tamim , 1 run , the inswinging yorker goes down leg , clipped to fine leg 6.3 Southee to Tamim , no run , bouncer , good change-up , Tamim sways away from the line and lets it go 6.2 Southee to Tamim , no run , full and on off , Tamim gets forward and presents the full face of the bat to defend to mid-off 6.1 Southee to Tamim , 2 runs , Tamim gets a thick inside edge as he pushes out hard , a couple to deep square leg 5.6 Boult to Soumya Sarkar , no run , almost a run-out ! Soumya Sarkar drove that wide and to the left of Elliott at point , who dived and recovered the ball , shied at Sarkar 's end , but the batsman was back in the nick of time 5.5 Boult to Soumya Sarkar , no run , " genius stuff this " says Ian Smith on air and I ca n't agree more. Boult beats Soumya Sarkar with an outswinger , a nervy poke from the batsman and he is lucky not to have edged it behind Soumya Sarkar , left handed bat , comes to the crease 5.4 Boult to Kayes , out Bowled ! ! Off-stump is lying flat on the ground. What.A.Ball ! Angled in , then as Kayes was shaping to flick , seamed away to miss the bat , hits the top of off and knocks the stump out. Terrific , terrific dismissal and Boult is rightly pumped. Totally done in was Kayes. Kayes b Boult 2 ( 19 ) Boult to Kayes , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 5.3 Boult to Kayes , no run , Kayes wants to do something different , to get out of the pressure created by Boult. Charges the bowler and wants to pull , but is beaten by the pace of the short delivery , flies to Ronchi 5.2 Boult to Kayes , no run , Kayes is late in withdrawing from the shot and the ball takes the toe end of the bat and rolls to the slip cordon 5.1 Boult to Kayes , no run , pitched up outside off , bit of swing , Kayes defends and gets a thick outside edge to gully , does n't carry though 4.6 Southee to Kayes , 1 run , yorker length outside off , dug out wide of cover and they take a quick single 4.5 Southee to Kayes , no run , nearly gets through Kayes ' defences. Full and swinging in , but it 's down leg , Kayes inside-edges the flick onto the pad 4.4 Southee to Kayes , no run , snorter , that is a fine short delivery , after bowling full , he digs it in and catches Kayes by surprise , who fended out awkwardly , the ball looped in front and to the left of 2nd slip , Anderson dives across and catches it on the bounce , good effort to save runs 4.3 Southee to Kayes , no run , targets the stumps this time , pushed to mid-on 4.2 Southee to Kayes , no run , well outside off , easy leave 4.1 Southee to Kayes , no run , pitched up outside off , Kayes goes for a big drive , mistimes it to mid-off 3.6 Boult to Tamim , no run , well left to another outswinger 3.5 Boult to Tamim , no run , Tamim tries to unsettle Boult , by charging out and then punches , but finds cover-point 3.4 Boult to Tamim , no run , pitched up outside off , driven well , but straight to the fielder at cover-point 3.3 Boult to Tamim , no run , Boult is n't happy ! Did that carry ? No it did n't to Taylor at first slip. Tamim got a thick edge on the defensive shot , Anderson dived across from second slip , but did n't even get a finger on that , bounced just in front of Taylor. Boult is n't happy that his fielders are standing so deep 3.2 Boult to Tamim , no run , full outswinger , outside off , left alone 3.1 Boult to Tamim , no run , full and on off , Tamim defends with soft hands to gully 2.6 Southee to Kayes , no run , Kayes did well to punch-drive that , but Southee stuck his left-hand out and stopped it 2.5 Southee to Tamim , 1 run , full and swinging in , Tamim goes for the big drive and gets a thick inside edge behind square 2.4 Southee to Tamim , no run , encouragement from the slip cordon as Southee steams in and angles one across Tamim , who brings the bat inside the line and then leaves. Carries nicely to Ronchi 2.3 Southee to Tamim , no run , well left by Tamim , he saw the full ball outside off and then got forward , covered the line and shouldered arms 2.2 Southee to Tamim , no run , Tamim is on the floor ! What a yorker that is. Swinging back in late , on middle and Tamim dug it out , before falling flat on the floor. Did well to keep it out , Southee curved that late back in and the seam position was superb 2.1 Southee to Tamim , no run , Tamim pushes the bat inside the line and leaves the delivery that is angled across 1.6 Boult to Kayes , no run , Boult is n't happy that he started that outswinger on middle and leg , wristed away to mid-on , but what an opening over from him - top class 1.5 Boult to Kayes , no run , very full and on off , squeezed out to point 1.4 Boult to Kayes , no run , that is a ripper ! Angled in , on a fuller length , brings Kayes forward and then as the ball lands , it moves away late past the forward defence , too good for Kayes and he must be thanking his stars , that he did n't nick it behind Three slips and a gully added now 1.3 Boult to Kayes , no run , that is well left by Kayes , well outside off and he shoulders arms to that one 1.2 Boult to Kayes , no run , so nearly a wicket for Boult. Lovely outswinger from him , draws Kayes on the front foot and the cover drive is on , but the late swing beats the drive Three slips in place for Boult 1.1 Boult to Kayes , no run , Boult will swing the ball , encouraging start for him , short of length and swinging away , from outside off , Kayes spars at that and is beaten. Kayes tried to push the bat inside the line , but only after the ball beat the bat Trent Boult , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Southee to Tamim , no run , tight full delivery on off , Tamim covers the line and defends to point. Good start by Southee 0.5 Southee to Tamim , no run , gentle swing for Southee , but Tamim is content to watch the ball till the last moment and defends to mid-on 0.4 Southee to Tamim , no run , very full and outside off , swinging in a tad , Tamim pushes it to mid-off 0.3 Southee to Kayes , 1 run , swinging into the pads , Kayes flicks uppishly , but it does n't carry to fine leg , fielded on the bounce 0.2 Southee to Kayes , no run , back of a length outside off , Kayes defends to point off the back foot 0.1 Southee to Tamim , 1 run , swing for Southee , but a bit too straight , Tamim gets inside the line and tucks it to fine leg , to get off the mark Tamim and Kayes are at the crease. Tamim is on strike. Southee will open the attack Southee will begin proceedings. Two slips in place for him Two rousing national anthems done and it 's time for the action to begin. The BlackCaps walk out to the middle. Tamim and Imrul Kayes are striding out to the middle too. Bright and sunny at Hamilton. It will be a challenge for Tamim and Kayes against Southee and Boult. Let 's find out how they handle the pacers up front Pitch report by Scott Styris : It has been under cover for the last 24 hours. It could aid Southee , Boult and Vettori. Whoever wins the toss , will look to bowl first . Teams : Bangladesh ( Playing XI ) : Tamim Iqbal , Imrul Kayes , Soumya Sarkar , Mahmudullah , Shakib Al Hasan ( c ) , Mushfiqur Rahim ( w ) , Sabbir Rahman , Nasir Hossain , Taijul Islam , Rubel Hossain , Taskin Ahmed New Zealand ( Playing XI ) : Martin Guptill , Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Grant Elliott , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( w ) , Daniel Vettori , Tim Southee , Mitchell McClenaghan , Trent Boult New Zealand have won the toss and have opted to field McCullum : " The first week was quite intense for us. We had three games in seven days. Just had a break which has helped us recover from injuries that we 've had. We have a fully fit team pretty much to pick from today , barring one. Looking forward to today 's game. We are going to have a bowl first. Just seen with the cloud cover , obviously yesterday under covers all day , can tend to swing here as well and the pitch just looks a little bit soft on top and with the day-nighter , it can skid on here later on. They were pretty keen to get first use of the ball ( talking about Boult and Southee ) . They have got a lot of experience at this ground. We have got some fond memories here as well. Hopefully we can turn up today , perform as strongly as we have done in the tournament so far and if we do that , we will give ourselves a good chance in this game. We have got one change , it was n't through illness - Adam Milne after that great catch he took the other day , has jarred his shoulder and Mitch McClenaghan comes in for him. Otherwise , everyone else is good to go. They are a very good side , who are improving every time they come into big tournaments. They have the wood over us when it comes to playing games over in their conditions. Today is an opportunity for us to be able to try and I guess , rectify that record that currently sits. Very respectful of the players that they have got and obviously will be well led by Shakib as well and it will be a good challenge for us. " Shakib : " He has got a little bit of a niggle. We do n't want to take a risk on him ahead of the quarter-final ( talking about Mortaza ) . He is just having a rest. We would 've bowled first as well. Looks to me a good track although a bit of overcast conditions and that will help the bowlers I think. But if we get through the first hour or so , I think it will be a very good track to bat on. We do know that ( on beating New Zealand ) , but it will be obviously difficult for us , but if we play to our potential , anything is possible in ODI games - that 's the beauty of this game. There are two changes - in place of Arafat Sunny , Taijul Islam came in and in place of Mashrafe Mortaza , Nasir Hossain came in " News coming in is that Mortaza is n't playing this game. Shakib will be the captain. We will confirm that for you at the toss Team News : Adam Milne injured his shoulder while trying to take a catch in the previous game against Afghanistan , he has not recovered in time. Hence , New Zealand might play Mitchell McClenaghan. As for Bangladesh , on a slow Hamilton wicket , they might be tempted to play an extra spinner. Stay tuned as the teams and toss are coming up in a short while.. . Weather Check : It has been raining since the last two days in Hamilton. But , the weather looks alright today and we should have a full game. It will be cloudy in the evening , but nothing to worry us . Bangladesh Bangladesh started with a win over Afghanistan. That game was almost like a payback encounter as they had lost to the Asian minnows in the Asia Cup. Their game against Australia was washed out and they were completely outplayed by Sri Lanka. But , they rose to the challenge the Scottish provided them with and chased down the second highest target in World Cups successfully. Nonetheless , their best game was versus England. Even though they were two down for next to nothing , the batsmen put their hands up and took them to a decent total of 275. Then , an inspired Mashrafe Mortaza led the team from the front to win the game by 15 runs . Surprisingly , it is the Bangladeshi pacers who have done most of the damage in this World Cup. The trio of Mortaza , Rubel and Taskin have bowled well together. With Shakib backing them up , it looks a very good attack. Mahmudullah and Rahim have been in terrific form with the bat and the likes of Tamim and Shakib chipping in , it looks like a well settled unit. However , their problems has been the 5th bowler , Mahmudullah and Sabbir Rahman have tried to fill in but without much success. So , this will give them a chance to know their best XI before the knockouts begin . New Zealand The Black Caps have kept their favorites tag intact. Starting with a massive win over Sri Lanka , getting through Scotland , annihilating England , prevailing over arch-rivals Australia and thumping Afghanistan. They have been the form side and one of the only two sides to have remained unbeaten in the tournament , the other being India. Their last game against Afghanistan was a walk in the park , Daniel Vettori ran through the middle order after Boult had given an opening. McCullum got them off to a blistering start , before Taylor and Anderson finised it off with ease . Boult , Southee and Vettori are amongst the top 5 wicket-takers in the World Cup. New Zealand owe their success to those three. They have bowled out opposition for less than 200 in 4 out of 5 games. However , McCullum will be aware that his middle-order has not been tested. The likes of Taylor , Elliott and Ronchi have not spent much time in the middle. So , this game provides the batters an ideal opportunity to have a proper hit . Now , we shall have quick glance regarding the form guide of both the teams. . The two sides met towards the end of 2013 in a bilateral series in Bangladesh. New Zealand headed into the 3-matches series after drawing the Test series 0-0. And it was the Bangladesh who had the better off the Kiwis , beating them 3-0. They also have a stranglehold on the Black Caps in the last 8 games , winning 7 and the other being abandoned. However , all those games were played in Bangladesh and when it comes to World Cups , New Zealand have a 3-0 lead over them. Even Brendon McCullum acknowledged the fact that they were beaten away from home and in unfamiliar conditions. This is what the Kiwi captain had to say before the game , 'I do n't know about payback time. Their performances against us were over in their conditions.' 11 : 45 Local Time , 23 : 45 GMT , 05 : 15 IST : Drama , emotions , joy , disappointment and what not were seen when Bangladesh beat England on Monday at Adelaide. It was for the first time that the Asian team qualified for the knockouts. And they did it in style , beating a lackluster England , who have been shown the door in the World Cup. However , today Bangladesh are up against the favorites , New Zealand and it is not going to be easy. Before we go further , let 's have a look as to what happened when these two teams last met . Preview : During the 1992 World Cup , also held Down Under , New Zealand went on a seven game unbeaten streak before losing the final pool encounter against Pakistan and then losing again to Imran Khan 's 'Cornered Tigers ' in the semi-finals to bow out. There 's a lesson for Brendon McCullum 's men from Martin Crowe 's side - Momentum is everything. Come Friday , at the Seddon Park in Hamilton , they 'll take on a buoyant Bangladesh side fresh after their giant slaying act in Adelaide. While the Black Caps are assured of a top of the table finish irrespective of the outcome , there 's enough in the encounter to keep Bangladesh interested. A win would take them above Sri Lanka in Pool A and help them avoid the other dominant team in the quarters - India. Bangladesh will also have happy memories of playing New Zealand when they swept the bilateral ODI 3-0 the last time New Zealand toured Bangladesh in late 2013 . Team News New Zealand : Since the start of the tournament on February 14th , New Zealand have looked every-bit their annoited tag of 'favourites'. Brendon McCullum 's aggressive captaincy and top-order batting has lit up the tournament. The bowling led by Tim Southee and Trent Boult has blown opposition away for totals less than 200 in four out of their five games. Daniel Vettori has shown that his left-arm spinners remain relevant even in the modern era of power hitting. If there 's an area of concern for New Zealand , it 's the middle-order. Ross Taylor , Grant Elliott and Luke Ronchi have less than 100 runs from the 5 games and are yet to be tested. New Zealand will be hopeful of the trio getting warmed up to the challenges that lie ahead in the knockout phase. An illness broke out in the camp in the last week but McCullum assured in his pre-match press conference that the players have recovered sufficiently. However , Adam Milne , who injured his shoulder while diving to take a catch against Afghanistan , is still sore and is likely to be replaced by left-arm pacer Mitchell McClenaghan . Probable XI : Martin Guptill , Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Grant Elliott , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( wk ) , Daniel Vettori , Adam Milne/Mitchell McClenaghan , Tim Southee , Trent Boult Player to watch out for : Ross Taylor - Taylor occupies the crucial No. 4 spot for New Zealand and a batting average of 17.66 with a best of 24 * in 5 games hardly does justice to his talent and batting order. New Zealand will hope for a strong showing from their senior batsman to boost the middle-order . Bangladesh : 'The Tigers ' are fresh from their victory over England that effectively dumped Eoin Morgan 's men out of the World Cup. In New Zealand , they will be up against a significantly better side but that should not stop them from believing a positive result can be achieved. Captain Mashrafe Mortaza , who 's had issues with his knee is also down with a sore throat and maybe rested in a bid to keep him ready for the all-important quarter-final. Mortaza also has an over-rate fine hanging over his head and a rest would allay any fears of the skipper missing out the quarters due to a second breach. Bangladesh could consider playing the extra spinner in Taijul Islam on a Seddon Park surface known to favour the spinners . Probable XI : Tamim Iqbal , Imrul Kayes , Soumya Sarkar , Mahmudullah , Shakib Al Hasan , Mushfiqur Rahim ( wk ) , Sabbir Rahman , Mashrafe Mortaza ( capt ) , Arafat Sunny , Rubel Hossain , Taskin Ahmed Player to watch out for : Tamim Iqbal - The experienced Bangladesh opener has 116 runs in four innings so far , 95 of which came in one game against Scotland. Bangladesh 's middle-order has not received a significant platform from their openers and a strong showing from Tamim will go a long way to remedy that . Pitch and Conditions : Hamilton has received a lot of rainfall in the last two days and there remains every chance that the match might get called off. However , the forecast for Friday is better and a full game might get underway. The Seddon Park in Hamilton is generally known to keep the slower bowlers interested as indicated by MS Dhoni 's use of R Ashwin , Ravindra Jadeja and Suresh Raina in the last game played there. However the short square boundaries ensure that there is no shortage of runs. Batting is known to get easier in the evening under lights and with DLS coming into picture , teams would prefer chasing . Quotes : " He ( Brendon McCullum ) is one of the key players we need to get out early. He 's playing without fear. But , again , we have a few game plans. " ourselves . - Bangladesh coach Chandika Hathurusingha on the keys to doing well against New Zealand . " I do n't know about payback time. Their performances against us were over in their conditions. " - Brendon McCullum when asked about Bangladesh 's superior record over New Zealand in recent times . Teams : Bangladesh ( From ) : Tamim Iqbal , Imrul Kayes , Soumya Sarkar , Mahmudullah , Shakib Al Hasan , Mushfiqur Rahim ( k ) , Sabbir Rahman , Mashrafe Mortaza ( c ) , Arafat Sunny , Rubel Hossain , Taskin Ahmed , Taijul Islam , Mominul Haque , Shafiul Islam , Nasir Hossain New Zealand ( From ) : Martin Guptill , Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Grant Elliott , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( k ) , Daniel Vettori , Mitchell McClenaghan , Tim Southee , Trent Boult , Adam Milne , Tom Latham , Nathan McCullum , Kyle Mills Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
