Tied : 1 Win percentage : 87.09 . @ bhogleharsha : Well played Brendan Taylor. You can be very proud. You were good for international cricket . @ sidvee : Before Dhoni , India would have most surely lost this match. That is all . " So I feel overall , it 's looking good , most of our batters have got a chance to bat. The performances are coming up. We are concentrating more on the process than the result and at the same time the way the guys have taken up the roles and the responsibilities that have been assigned to them , I feel it just looks like a different side. But also not to forget , we are here for the last three and half-four months and it 's not really easy to keep coming up with good performances. And also , we did n't really do too well in the Test series. But at the same time , you need to give the guys a bit of a break. They need to freshen up in a tournament like this. Also the fans coming up. We have got fans coming in big numbers in all the venues and I feel that also really helps us to some extent and we 've done really well so far in the tournament. " Dhoni : " Not only me and Suresh ( Raina ) , even when Virat went in , he was feeling a bit of pressure. Zimbabwe is a good side , but still we are expected to win. I think they put runs on the board and also I felt the wicket was doing a bit slightly in the second innings. There was a bit of dew and after that it was not coming on nicely and their bowlers actually exploited it. They did n't really bowl too quick , because of which we did n't have enough pace to work with. Overall , this game could n't have been better. The lower-order got a bit to bat. Raina is a key player for us batting at No. 5. It could have been better if one us got out and Jadeja would have got a chance ( smiles ) . But still you want to win so I felt the partnership between me and Raina was very good and for them I think ( Brendan ) Taylor was brilliant. Everyone has been put under pressure. Whether it is the three fast bowlers , or our spinners. At the same time , the top six have been under some sort of a pressure in a few games. So I feel , overall , that 's very important. The reason being , at times you play in a bilateral series or a tri-series and your lower order has not really been tested and all of a sudden they have to perform in a big game. I feel it becomes a bit unfair on them because when you are playing a lighter side or if we get a lighter side out for 120-150 runs , the top order does most of the scoring. The pressure keeps mounting because it adds as a game that they have played but they have not scored or they 've not got enough chances to bat. " Taylor : " That 's a good assessment ( when Pommie Mbangwa asked him if it would be right to call them nearly men in this tournament ) . We 've played some brilliant cricket and we 've been shoddy at times and that 's really hurt us. But , there has n't been a lot in it. Just a few dropped catches and finishing off our bowling at the end there and losing wickets at crucial times. And it has all set us back , but we 've played some really good cricket. After 15 overs I did n't think I would have taken 280 , but in the last 10 overs or the last 5 , we should have probably got around 310-320 and that could have made a little bit of difference. Obviously there was a crucial dropped catch , but that happens and they played better cricket and it 's no surprise that they are top of the log as well. Getting a hundred in a World Cup for your country is always special. Unfortunately both in losing causes , but it would have been a lot more sweeter if we got over the line , but it was nice to get a few runs. Sad that it has ended , but it 's been a joyful ride and one that I thoroughly enjoyed. " Raina : " God has been really kind. I had a good partnership with MS ( Dhoni ) . We lost too many wickets up front but I thought the wicket was very good. I knew whenever I got the ball in my area I have to play my shots. But at the same time , when MS came , we played really smart cricket. We played a lot of singles and a lot of aerial shots and I think we have done really well as a team. I was batting really well. I had a good start against Pakistan , but I knew whenever the team needed me the most I need to deliver. We had a lot of team meetings with MS , Sanjay Bangar and Ravi Shastri. They always keep backing all the players. I thought whenever I get the chance , I need to be positive and need to be smart. Especially in powerplays , need to be playing smart cricket. So I am glad that today we 've done it really well. Me and MS have played a lot of matches together , we have finished a lot of matches together. When he came he always said that you can play your shots , but at the same time you ca n't just go there and smash every ball. And I was happy. Whenever I got the ball in my areas , I knew I can play over mid-wicket , mid-on , mid-off. So he always backed my instinct and backed my strokes. So I am really happy. It is a very important knock for me , getting a World Cup Man of the Match award is special. Got it in under-19 and today I got it when I played for the senior team and I am really happy with it. " Suresh Raina is the Man of the Match for his 104-ball 110 Zimbabwe showed sparks of brilliance throughout the tournament , but during the crucial moments , their fielding and bowling let them down. On the other hand , having won all their games in the Group stages of the tournament , India will go into their quarterfinal match against Bangladesh at the MCG with full of confidence . Earlier , in Brendan Taylor 's last game for Zimbabwe , he plundered the Indian bowling attack by playing orthodox and innovative strokes to score a ton. He especially , took a heavy toll off Ravichandran Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja 's bowling by using his feet , playing cheeky sweeps and reverse sweeps. He reached his hundred in style by ramping Mohammed Shami for a six. Once he was dismissed , Zimbabwe lost their way a bit to end up with a total below 300. With eight centuries to his name , Taylor now holds the record for most number of hundreds by a Zimbabwean cricketer in ODIs. For India , the seamers , Shami , Umesh Yadav and Mohit Sharma were usually on the money and ended up with three wickets apiece. However , the spinners , Ashwin and Jadeja struggled with the short straight boundaries coming into play . It has to be said that Zimbabwe 's seamers , Tendai Chatara and Panyangara , bowled with good control early on to put them in a position of strength. Both of them generated a bit of swing. The batsmen did n't help their cause by showing poor technique. The story could have been different , but Masakadza dropped a sitter to give Raina a reprieve. Zimbabwe 's bowlers struggled to make an impact in the slog overs as well . Raina then went on a hitting spree that included a mighty heave across the line off Tinashe Panyangara for a six and glorious strokes off Hamilton Masakadza. Raina soon completed a masterful hundred and Dhoni for the umpteenth time , rose to the occasion under pressure to compose a fifty , as Zimbabwe sloped towards a gut-wrenching defeat. With this win , Dhoni now has 10 consecutive victories in World Cups . India were given a real scare before they won a riveting contest that kept the jam-packed crowd hooked to the game. It was the experienced duo of Suresh Raina and MS Dhoni , who resurrected India 's fortunes after they lost the wickets of Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Ajinkya Rahane and Virat Kohli. It was Raina , who initially tried to break the shackles by clouting Sean Williams for a couple of sixes. Dhoni started his innings cautiously , before imperiously smashing Solomon Mire for two boundaries. Both the batsmen also stole singles from under the very noses of Zimbabwe 's fielders . Dhoni hugs Raina with a smile. The players shake hands , before Dhoni and Raina walk off the field. The rest of the Indian players come out and shake hands with Taylor & Co. It is unfortunate that Zimbabwe go out of the tournament on a losing note. The Indian fans in the crowd are ecstatic. It is now confirmed that India will play Bangladesh in the second quarter-final at the MCG on March 19 . 48.4 Panyangara to Dhoni , SIX , Dhoni finishes off in style. 10th successive World Cup win for MS Dhoni. He is now second on the list of most World Cup wins in a row as captain. Short ball on the stumps , Dhoni rocks back and pulls it all the way over backward square leg 48.3 Panyangara to Dhoni , 2 runs , another full toss , Dhoni drives hard through cover , the fielder at sweeper runs to his right and stops the ball with a full length dive. Excellent save that ! 48.2 Panyangara to Raina , 1 run , low full toss outside off stump , a gentle drive to long-off 48.1 Panyangara to Raina , no run , low full toss outside off stump , Raina mistimes the drive to cover Tinashe Panyangara [ 8.0-1-44-2 ] is back into the attack The equation is down to 9 needed off 12 balls . 47.6 Chatara to Raina , 1 run , shortish and on the stumps , Raina is hurried on the pull shot , but manages to send it to deep mid-wicket 47.5 Chatara to Raina , no run , another slower ball from Chatara , Raina taps it towards point and looks for a quick single , but Dhoni is not keen 47.4 Chatara to Dhoni , 1 run , slower ball outside off stump , guided to point 47.4 Chatara to Dhoni , wide , well outside off stump , called a wide as Dhoni lets it go through to Taylor 47.3 Chatara to Dhoni , 2 runs , short of length delivery outside off stump , Dhoni cuts off the back foot to deep point , the man at sweeper tidies up 47.2 Chatara to Raina , 1 run , thankfully for Chatara , the fielder at short fine leg did well to dive to his left and stop the ball. Otherwise , this low full toss down the leg-side would have gone for four 47.1 Chatara to Dhoni , 1 run , slower ball outside off stump , tapped to cover-point 47.1 Chatara to Dhoni , wide , short and down the leg-side , Dhoni lets it go Just 17 runs needed off 18 balls . 46.6 Mupariwa to Dhoni , 1 run , low full toss , Dhoni is kind enough to gently flick it along the ground to deep mid-wicket 46.5 Mupariwa to Dhoni , FOUR , full toss and four more ! A high full toss in fact , Dhoni swings it across the line and sends it to the left of short fine leg. This is poor bowling from Mupariwa 46.4 Mupariwa to Dhoni , SIX , he 's connected this alright. Full and in the slot , Dhoni takes his front leg out of the way and lofts it over long-on. The fielder jumps high and tries to grab it with both hands but it escapes past him 46.3 Mupariwa to Dhoni , 2 runs , Dhoni goes for the big hit , but slices it and it lands safely between extra-cover and long-off 46.2 Mupariwa to Raina , 1 run , mistimed loft , but it falls just short of the fielder diving forward at long-off. Good length delivery outside off stump , Raina goes for the lofted drive , but gets it on the bottom of the bat , the fielder was a little late to take it , in fact he just about manages to get there , but could n't hold on. It was a tough chance 46.1 Mupariwa to Dhoni , 1 run , low full toss , driven powerfully to long-on 45.6 Chatara to Dhoni , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Dhoni guides it to backward point , the fielder has a shy at the striker 's end , but misses. A direct-hit would have been curtains for Raina 45.5 Chatara to Dhoni , no run , edged but does n't carry. Slower ball outside off stump , Dhoni looks to guide it to third man , gets an edge but it does n't carry to the keeper 45.4 Chatara to Dhoni , no run , beaten ! Short of a length delivery just outside off stump , Dhoni is late on the pull and it goes past the bottom edge 45.3 Chatara to Raina , 1 run , full and just outside off stump , Raina drives it to mid-on 45.2 Chatara to Raina , FOUR , short ball again , Chatara has got to learn his lessons quickly. Fine leg is inside the ring and Raina helps it away very fine to pick up four more 45.1 Chatara to Dhoni , 1 run , short of length delivery on the leg stump , Dhoni works it down to short fine leg 44.6 Mupariwa to Dhoni , 1 run , low full toss , driven back , the bowler gets his left hand in his followthrough and takes some pace off 44.5 Mupariwa to Raina , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Raina drives it to long-off 44.4 Mupariwa to Raina , no run , good length delivery on the leg stump , Raina defends 44.4 Mupariwa to Raina , wide , full and down the leg-side , good take by Taylor behind the stumps 44.3 Mupariwa to Dhoni , 1 run , full on the leg stump , Dhoni drives it to long-on 44.2 Mupariwa to Raina , 1 run , that 's it , 5th ODI hundred for Raina. Slower ball on the off stump , Raina taps it towards cover , Dhoni responds and it 's an easy run in the end. Raina takes his helmet off , raises the bat to the sky and then towards the dressing room and the crowd to acknowledge the applause. After completing the run , Raina jumped in the air and pumped his fist in delight. This has been an excellent knock from the left-hander. He was struggling to get going at the start , but as the innings progressed , he played some lovely shots and took pressure off MS Dhoni Taylor brings the field up as Raina is on 99 44.1 Mupariwa to Raina , FOUR , poor bowling , Raina moves on to 99. Friendly ball down the leg-side , Raina allows the ball to come , uses the pace and just gently glances it away fine to beat short fine leg India need 48 runs off 36 balls. Can Zimbabwe take a wicket and spice things up ? 43.6 Chatara to Dhoni , no run , yorker outside off stump , Dhoni digs it out 43.5 Chatara to Dhoni , no run , full and outside off stump , Dhoni drives it back to the bowler 43.5 Chatara to Dhoni , no ball , FOUR , it 's a high full toss above waist height and it 's called a no ball. Dhoni gets across a bit and helps it past the man at short fine leg. Chatara puts his hand up immediately and says sorry to Dhoni 43.4 Chatara to Raina , 1 run , inswinging low full toss on the off stump , driven to long-on 43.3 Chatara to Dhoni , 1 run , good length delivery outside off stump , Dhoni guides it to backward point 43.2 Chatara to Raina , 1 run , low full toss on the off stump , driven to long-on 43.1 Chatara to Raina , FOUR , dabbed very fine and even a full length dive from short third man was n't good enough. Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Raina hardly moves his bat , waits and guides it very fine to pick up four more 43.1 Chatara to Raina , wide , starts from round the wicket and sprays this down the leg-side , a fine little tickle would have been four Tendai Chatara [ 7.0-1-31-0 ] is back into the attack 42.6 Mupariwa to Raina , 1 run , short of length delivery on the leg stump , Raina flicks it to mid-wicket , puts his arm up and signals Dhoni not to come back for the second 42.5 Mupariwa to Raina , 2 runs , worked away to mid-wicket , Dhoni races back for the second and the throw is wild to make life very easy for the batsmen 42.4 Mupariwa to Dhoni , 1 run , 57th ODI fifty , short of length delivery outside off stump , punched off the back foot to long-off. Raina walks upto his skipper and congratulates him , while Dhawan does a low-five with team director Ravi Shastri Chants of " Dhoni , Dhoni , Dhoni " doing the rounds at Eden Park 42.3 Mupariwa to Raina , leg byes , 1 run , slower ball yorker , Raina tries to play on the on-side , but misses and gets hit on the pad , but it was sliding down the leg-side 42.2 Mupariwa to Raina , FOUR , deft touch from Raina ! Short of a length delivery just outside off stump , knowing that third man is inside the ring , he waits for the ball to come and just dabs it in time to send it very fine. These two are doing it nicely 42.1 Mupariwa to Dhoni , 1 run , slower ball goes short and outside off stump , Dhoni cuts it to sweeper cover. He moves onto 49 Tawanda Mupariwa [ 7.0-0-28-0 ] is back into the attack 41.6 H Masakadza to Dhoni , 1 run , slower ball , sensibly Dhoni works it to square leg and keeps strike 41.5 H Masakadza to Raina , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Raina opens the face of the bat and drives it square of the wicket on the off-side , Raina wants two but Dhoni says no 41.4 H Masakadza to Raina , SIX , that 's hit the rope on the full. Short delivery on the stumps , Raina hangs back and pulls well , there is no one at deep mid-wicket and India gets a maximum. The umpire checks and signals SIX , much to the delight of the crowd 41.3 H Masakadza to Raina , FOUR , now he 's crashed that through extra-cover. Full and outside off stump , Raina leans forward and drives very hard , sweeper cover runs to his left , but the ball wins the race 41.2 H Masakadza to Raina , no run , was that a missed stumping chance ? Yes , it was ! Slower ball outside off stump , Raina loses balance while trying to drive as he does n't pick the change of pace , he overbalances and lifts his back foot but Taylor fumbled the ball Raina stops the bowler as he was running in. There was some disturbance behind the bowler 's arm 41.1 H Masakadza to Dhoni , 1 run , slower ball very full and outside off stump , driven to mid-off Hamilton Masakadza [ 1.0-0-2-0 ] is back into the attack 40.6 S Raza to Dhoni , 1 run , down the leg-side , gently knocked towards square leg and he 'll keep strike 40.5 S Raza to Raina , 1 run , tossed up outside off stump , pushed to cover-point 40.4 S Raza to Raina , no run , again , attempts a similar stroke but the ball spins away , beats the edge 40.3 S Raza to Raina , no run , tries to guide this flighted delivery outside off stump towards third man but gets beaten 40.2 S Raza to Dhoni , 1 run , down the leg-side , Dhoni misses the flick and it goes off the thigh pad towards square leg 40.1 S Raza to Dhoni , FOUR , oh dear ! Be more disciplined Zimbabwe. Short and down the leg-side , Dhoni helps it along the ground and sends it to the right of the man at short fine leg. Easy pickings for Dhoni Sikandar Raza [ 7.0-0-30-1 ] is back into the attack 39/0 in the 5-over batting powerplay , just what India wanted at this stage. The most important thing is , they have n't lost a wicket. 91 off 60 is certainly doable , but wickets in hand will be key . 39.6 Panyangara to Dhoni , 1 run , gets across the sticks and tucks the short of length delivery to deep square leg 39.5 Panyangara to Dhoni , 2 runs , a step down the track and then a flick past the diving fielder at short mid-wicket , long-on runs to his right and tidies up 39.4 Panyangara to Raina , 1 run , very full and outside off stump , Raina drives it to mid-off 39.4 Panyangara to Raina , wide , he 's missed out on a boundary opportunity , but he 'll get an extra ball as it was down the leg-side , Raina tried to help it on its way , but failed to make contact 39.3 Panyangara to Dhoni , 1 run , Dhoni works it to backward square leg and that 's the 100-run stand between these two 39.2 Panyangara to Raina , 1 run , Raina guides this very fine , but the fielder at short third man does well to dive to his right and save a certain boundary 39.1 Panyangara to Raina , SIX , whack ! Short and just outside off stump , again not high enough to trouble the batsman , Raina pulls off the front foot and sends it all the way over deep mid-wicket. Not the ideal start to the over for Panyangara Tinashe Panyangara [ 7.0-1-31-2 ] is back into the attack 38.6 Mupariwa to Raina , 1 run , slower ball on the stumps , Raina taps it to cover and takes a sharp run. Great over for Zimbabwe , just two singles in it 38.6 Mupariwa to Raina , 1 run , to cover 38.5 Mupariwa to Dhoni , 1 run , pulls uppishly but it will only be a single , deep mid-wicket , Mire , was very swift to run to his right and stop the boundary 38.4 Mupariwa to Dhoni , no run , make that 4 dots in a row. Slower ball outside off stump , Dhoni drives it to cover 38.3 Mupariwa to Dhoni , no run , full and outside off stump , driven towards cover 38.2 Mupariwa to Dhoni , no run , on the off stump , blocked 38.1 Mupariwa to Dhoni , no run , the slower ball goes very short , Dhoni tries to bisect backward point and short third man , but picks out the former. Dhoni is not happy as Raina did n't respond for the single Tawanda Mupariwa [ 6.0-0-26-0 ] is back into the attack 37.6 Chatara to Raina , 2 runs , on the leg stump , Raina flicks it to deep mid-wicket and it 's good enough for two. Good over for India , 12 runs came off it 37.5 Chatara to Raina , FOUR , ca n't bowl short with fine leg inside the ring. It was a slower ball bumper and Raina had a lot of time to play the shot , he went across the line and helped it on its way very fine for four more 37.4 Chatara to Raina , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Raina guides it to short third man 37.3 Chatara to Dhoni , 1 run , flicked away along the ground to backward square leg 37.2 Chatara to Dhoni , FOUR , oh that 's unfortunate for Zimbabwe ! Short and outside off stump , Dhoni guides it to the left of backward point , who moves to his left and deflects the ball , the fielder at short third man moved to his right to cover the line , but it deflected away to the boundary. Chatara is not happy 37.1 Chatara to Raina , byes , 1 run , the keeper fumbles. Firstly , Raina will be kicking himself for missing out on a freebie. Short and on the stumps , Raina goes across the stumps and misses the pull , the keeper gets an awkward bounce and he gets it go Tendai Chatara [ 6.0-1-20-0 ] is back into the attack 36.6 Panyangara to Dhoni , no run , full and outside off stump , softly pushed to cover 36.5 Panyangara to Raina , 1 run , deft touch on that occasion as Raina sends this to third man 36.4 Panyangara to Dhoni , leg byes , 1 run , again Dhoni gets hit on the pad as he fails to connect a flick , but it was going down the leg-side 36.3 Panyangara to Raina , 1 run , waits for the ball to come and softly pushes it to sweeper cover 36.2 Panyangara to Raina , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Raina dabs it to point 36.1 Panyangara to Raina , FOUR , driven on the rise but in the gap. 35th ODI fifty for Raina ! Full and in the slot , for a moment it looked as if it was going to the fielder , but mid-off was very straight and Raina sent it to his right. Raina raises his bat and acknowledges the applause Tinashe Panyangara [ 6.0-1-25-2 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Mupariwa to Dhoni , FOUR , that spoils the over for Zimbabwe and Mupariwa. Just one run came off the first five balls and a bit of pressure is released. Short and wide outside off stump , Dhoni delays the late-cut and splits backward point and short third man to perfection 35.5 Mupariwa to Dhoni , no run , hit on the pad again , Raina looks for a cheeky single but Dhoni sends him back. Good length delivery angling into the right-hander , Dhoni misses the flick , gets hit high on the pad , but it was going down the leg-side , the fielder had a shy at the bowler 's end and Raina had to put in a full length dive to make his ground 35.4 Mupariwa to Dhoni , no run , shortish slower ball outside off stump , Dhoni goes for the cut and chops it towards cover-point 35.3 Mupariwa to Dhoni , no run , angling into the right-hander , Dhoni tries to help it on its way but gets hit on the thigh pad 35.2 Mupariwa to Dhoni , no run , good length delivery on the stumps , Dhoni flicks it to mid-wicket 35.1 Mupariwa to Raina , 1 run , gentle short of length down the leg-side , Raina flicks it to deep square leg Tawanda Mupariwa [ 5.0-0-21-0 ] is back into the attack This is going to be an interesting batting powerplay . It was Raina , who looked to break the shackles by smashing Sean Williams for a couple of sixes. On the other hand , MS Dhoni made a cautious start before he punished Solomon Mire for some poor bowling by essaying two boundaries. India will certainly look up to Dhoni to lead from the front and play a captain 's innings. India could have been in trouble , but Hamilton Masakadza dropped a sitter just before the second drinks break to give Raina a reprieve . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the last 18.3 overs : After the first drinks break , Zimbabwe 's bowlers continued to maintain line and length. For a while , Suresh Raina struggled for timing. With Virat Kohli too getting out to the part-timer , Sikandar Raza , Zimbabwe seemed to be in front . Drinks are on the field now 34.6 S Raza to Raina , 1 run , top edge , this is going to be a wicket and ohhhhh ! Hamilton Masakadza has put down a sitter. My word ! Zimbabwe ca n't believe it. Flighted delivery down the leg-side , Raina goes for the sweep and gets an edge , he knew straightaway that he was in trouble , there was a man perfectly stationed at short fine leg for the edge , Masakadza runs to his right , gets both hands to it but spills it. Maybe he took it too casually. Is that the game then ? Only time will tell , but that should have been held. It was a dolly ! 34.5 S Raza to Raina , 2 runs , down the track , taken the full , just a flick wide of long-on and Dhoni races back for the second so easily 34.4 S Raza to Dhoni , 1 run , Dhoni looks to advance again , Raza fires this down the leg-side , Dhoni adjusts and works it to backward square leg 34.4 S Raza to Dhoni , wide , short and down the leg-side , Raza has to rebowl that 34.3 S Raza to Dhoni , no run , advances and takes it on the full but drives it back to the bowler 34.2 S Raza to Raina , 1 run , yorker on the off stump , dug out to mid-wicket 34.1 S Raza to Dhoni , 1 run , skips down the track , but does n't get to the pitch of the ball , hence gently works it to the right of mid-wicket 33.6 H Masakadza to Raina , no run , the extra ball does n't cost a run as Raina glances it straight to short fine leg , he wanted a run and was halfway down the track , but Dhoni sent him back. Raina slipped while turning back , but he had enough time to get home 33.6 H Masakadza to Raina , wide , full and sprays this wide outside off stump , left alone 33.5 H Masakadza to Raina , no run , punched off the back foot , Raina was looking to send it to long-on for a run , but he hit it more towards mid-wicket 33.4 H Masakadza to Raina , no run , good length delivery around the off stump , Raina taps it to mid-wicket 33.3 H Masakadza to Raina , no run , slower ball outside off stump , Raina leans forward and defends 33.2 H Masakadza to Dhoni , 1 run , driven watchfully and to the right of the diving fielder at cover. 150 up for India 33.1 H Masakadza to Dhoni , no run , just bit of nip away from the right-hander on this good length delivery , Dhoni defends off the front foot Hamilton Masakadza , right-arm medium , comes into the attack The Indian fans were silent at the dismissal of Kohli , but Jamie says that they are back to full force , enjoying each and every shot played by Raina and Dhoni 32.6 S Raza to Dhoni , 1 run , steps out and takes the flighted delivery on the full , drives but long-off is very straight Now there is a man at deep backward square leg 32.5 S Raza to Raina , 1 run , low full toss , easily driven to long-off 32.4 S Raza to Raina , no run , flatter and just outside off stump , Raina makes room and cuts , but straight to backward point 32.3 S Raza to Dhoni , 1 run , driven along the ground to mid-off 32.2 S Raza to Dhoni , FOUR , full toss and Dhoni helps himself to another boundary. He was actually trying to come down the track , but saw the full toss coming his away and swung it across the line , with no one at deep backward square leg , that was a safe shot even though it was hit in the air for a while 32.1 S Raza to Raina , 1 run , short and spinning away outside off stump , Raina pulls , but hits it straighter , long-on runs to his left and tidies up. Fifty-run stand comes up 31.6 Solomon Mire to Raina , 1 run , short and asking for trouble , Raina helps it down to long leg. He could have hit that anywhere , but he picked the fielder out to perfection 31.5 Solomon Mire to Dhoni , 1 run , knocks this to backward square leg and looks for two , but Raina says no 31.4 Solomon Mire to Dhoni , FOUR , bad ball. Short and way outside off stump this time , Dhoni cuts uppishly past backward point and it 's gone for four more 31.3 Solomon Mire to Dhoni , FOUR , he 's hammered that. Short and on the stumps , not high enough to trouble Dhoni , who gets on top of the bounce by hopping a bit and it rockets through backward square leg. Fine leg had no chance 31.2 Solomon Mire to Dhoni , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Dhoni punches it to cover 31.1 Solomon Mire to Raina , 1 run , short of length delivery , Raina pulls it to deep backward square leg Solomon Mire [ 4.0-0-18-0 ] is back into the attack 30.6 S Raza to Dhoni , no run , appeal for LBW , but the ball pitched outside leg stump. Dhoni tried to sweep this full ball , but got hit on the back leg 30.5 S Raza to Dhoni , no run , Dhoni softly drives this , short mid-wicket makes a diving save to his left 30.4 S Raza to Raina , 1 run , floated up outside off stump , driven to the man sweeping on the off-side 30.3 S Raza to Dhoni , 1 run , short and on the stumps , Dhoni pulls powerfully off the back foot but hits it straight to deep mid-wicket 30.2 S Raza to Dhoni , no run , on the leg stump , flicked to short mid-wicket 30.1 S Raza to Raina , 1 run , spinning away outside off stump , Raina waits and dabs it fine to the right of short third man 29.6 Sean Williams to Raina , 1 run , tossed up and well outside off , driven down towards long-on for a single 29.5 Sean Williams to Dhoni , 1 run , flatter and well outside off , ease down towards long-off for a single 29.4 Sean Williams to Raina , 1 run , Williams follows Raina as he came down the track , chipped over mid-wicket for a single 29.3 Sean Williams to Raina , no run , Williams comes from round the wicket , slows the pace down , Raina goes back and defends it 29.2 Sean Williams to Raina , SIX , back-to-back sixes from Raina , comes down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball , lifts it with a straight bat and sends it soaring over long-on for another maximum 29.1 Sean Williams to Raina , SIX , Raina was eyeing that boundary ! Comes down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and shovels it over wide mid-wicket for a massive six , he enjoyed that 28.6 S Raza to Raina , 1 run , flatter and on off , punched down towards long-on for a single 28.5 S Raza to Dhoni , 1 run , that 's drilled powerfully , looked like it was going to race away to the straight boundary. Panyangara gets across quickly , puts in the dive and keeps them down to a single 28.4 S Raza to Raina , 1 run , this one is given more air , driven down towards long-off for a single 28.3 S Raza to Raina , no run , Raza drops one short and just outside off , chopped straight to the fielder at backward point 28.2 S Raza to Dhoni , 1 run , flatter and well outside off , punched down towards long-off for a single 28.1 S Raza to Raina , 1 run , Raina comes down the track , does n't get to the pitch of the ball and ends up dragging it past mid-wicket for a single 27.6 Sean Williams to Raina , 1 run , Williams drops one short and on the stumps , pulled away behind square on the on-side for a single 27.5 Sean Williams to Raina , no run , tossed up and well outside off , Raina lunges forward and blocks 27.4 Sean Williams to Raina , no run , the sweep from Raina , finds the fielder just behind the square leg umpire 27.3 Sean Williams to Raina , no run , Raina dances down the track and looks to deposit one over mid-wicket , misses and is lucky that he got his body behind it 27.2 Sean Williams to Raina , 2 runs , nicely played by Raina , this was the quicker ball from Williams , Raina leans forward , opens the face of the bat and runs it past backward point for a brace 27.1 Sean Williams to Raina , no run , flighted and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler 26.6 S Raza to Dhoni , no run , Raza drifts one well outside leg , nudged towards short fine 26.5 S Raza to Dhoni , no run , pushed through and on Dhoni 's pads , turned towards short fine leg 26.4 S Raza to Raina , 1 run , tossed up and on off , eased down towards long-on for a single 26.3 S Raza to Raina , no run , this one is given more air , driven to the right of the bowler 26.2 S Raza to Raina , no run , slightly shorter and just outside off , cut straight to the fielder at short third man 26.1 S Raza to Raina , no run , flatter and on the stumps , punched back towards the bowler 25.6 Sean Williams to Dhoni , no run , tossed up and well outside off , Dhoni lunges forward on the drive , gets an inside edge onto his pads 25.5 Sean Williams to Dhoni , no run , slower and spinning away from outside off , Dhoni goes back and pushes it towards the off-side 25.4 Sean Williams to Dhoni , no run , flighted delivery and holding its line outside off , left alone 25.3 Sean Williams to Raina , 1 run , this one is given more air , driven down towards long-on for a single 25.2 Sean Williams to Raina , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , blocked back towards the bowler 25.1 Sean Williams to Raina , FOUR , that should relieve some pressure ! Williams dropped one short as Raina came down the track , he adjust and pulls it over mid-wicket , one bounce and over the ropes 24.6 S Raza to Raina , 1 run , this one is given more air , driven down towards long-off for a single 24.5 S Raza to Raina , no run , flighted and on the stumps , Raina gets behind the line and defends it 24.4 S Raza to Raina , no run , tossed up and just outside off , Raina goes back and punches it towards cover 24.3 S Raza to Dhoni , 1 run , the flat sweep from Dhoni , gets a bottom edge on the shot , just a single to short fine leg 24.2 S Raza to Dhoni , no run , tossed up and on Dhoni 's pads , turned in front of square on the on-side 24.1 S Raza to Dhoni , 2 runs , Dhoni comes down the track to a well flighted delivery and drives it wide of long-on for a couple of runs 23.6 Sean Williams to Raina , no run , slower and on the stumps , Raina goes back and punches it to the right of mid-wicket 23.5 Sean Williams to Dhoni , 1 run , Williams drops one short and well outside off , cut away square on the off-side for a single 23.4 Sean Williams to Dhoni , no run , flatter and well outside off , Dhoni punches it uppishly and well wide of the bowler , once again it stopped on Dhoni , producing the false shot 23.3 Sean Williams to Dhoni , no run , tossed up and on off , Dhoni lunges forward and defends it 23.2 Sean Williams to Raina , 1 run , the lap sweep from Raina , gets a long way across and helps it behind square on the on-side for a single 23.1 Sean Williams to Raina , no run , flighted delivery and on the stumps , Raina hops across and nudges it behind square on the on-side 22.6 S Raza to Dhoni , no run , pushed through by Raza , Dhoni goes back and works it towards mid-wicket 22.5 S Raza to Dhoni , no run , tossed up and just outside off , Dhoni goes back and blocks it MS Dhoni , right handed bat , comes to the crease 22.4 S Raza to Kohli , out Bowled ! ! Kohli has been bowled round the legs , unfortunate dismissal for Kohli , India are in big trouble now. This was a nothing ball from Raza , short and drifting well down leg-side , Kohli was looking to pull it away behind square , played the shot a bit too early , the ball hit the gloves and popped back onto the middle stump. Kohli stands in disbelief , so are the Indian section of the crowd here in Auckland. Can Zimbabwe pull off a stunning win ? Kohli b S Raza 38 ( 48 ) [ 4s-4 ] S Raza to Kohli , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 22.3 S Raza to Raina , 1 run , pushed through by Raza , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a single 22.2 S Raza to Raina , no run , slower and on the stumps , Raina makes room and pushes it towards cover 22.1 S Raza to Kohli , 1 run , flatter and well outside leg , pulled away behind square on the on-side Raza is coming from round the wicket Sikandar Raza , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 21.6 Sean Williams to Kohli , 1 run , flighted delivery and well outside off , driven past cover for a single 21.5 Sean Williams to Raina , 1 run , tossed up and on Raina 's pads , nudged behind square leg for a single 21.4 Sean Williams to Raina , FOUR , Williams drops one short and well down leg-side , Raina rocks back and pulls it behind square on the on-side , it was hit in the air but gets it wide of the fielder at backward square leg 21.3 Sean Williams to Raina , no run , Raina gets lucky again ! Looked like this one stopped on the batsman , he was early into the tuck , the ball loops in the air and drops between the bowler and Raza getting across from mid-wicket 21.2 Sean Williams to Raina , no run , pushed through by Williams , Raina was early into the tuck , the ball drops well in front of backward square leg 21.1 Sean Williams to Raina , no run , flatter and on Raina 's pads , turned towards square leg Sean Williams , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 20.6 Mupariwa to Kohli , no run , short of a length and well outside off , punched towards mid-off 20.5 Mupariwa to Raina , 1 run , tad fuller and just outside off , punched down towards long-off for a single 20.4 Mupariwa to Raina , no run , on a good length and just outside off , dabbed with an angled bat towards backward point The fielder now goes back towards deep cover 20.3 Mupariwa to Raina , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Raina gets a big stride forward and drives it straight to the fielder at cover 20.2 Mupariwa to Raina , no run , on a good length and well outside off , Raina reaches out and mistimes the drive towards mid-off 20.1 Mupariwa to Raina , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven towards mid-off 19.6 Solomon Mire to Kohli , no run , on a length and just outside off , worked away towards mid-wicket 19.5 Solomon Mire to Kohli , no run , that 's a good bumper from Mire , Kohli was hanging on the front-foot , looks to go back on the pull and misses 19.4 Solomon Mire to Kohli , no run , short of a length and well outside off , Kohli goes back and runs it to the right of point 19.3 Solomon Mire to Kohli , FOUR , that 's nicely done by Kohli , width on offer from Mire , Kohli reaches out and laces it square past point , no need to run for those 19.2 Solomon Mire to Kohli , no run , on a length and on the stumps , Kohli shuffles across and turns it towards short mid-wicket 19.1 Solomon Mire to Raina , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Raina prods across and tucks it past square leg for a single 18.6 Mupariwa to Kohli , 2 runs , too straight from Mupariwa , ends up drifting onto Kohli 's pads , clipped away behind square on the on-side for a couple of runs 18.5 Mupariwa to Raina , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Raina goes deep inside his crease and works it to the left of mid-on for a single 18.4 Mupariwa to Raina , no run , Mupariwa shortens his length and just outside off , pushed towards mid-off 18.3 Mupariwa to Raina , no run , muted appeal for LBW , but the ball pitched well outside leg , Raina was looking to flick and missed 18.2 Mupariwa to Raina , no run , tad fuller and slanting away from the left-hander , he plays inside the line and lets it go 18.1 Mupariwa to Kohli , 1 run , on a length and just outside off , punched down towards long-on for a single 17.6 Solomon Mire to Raina , no run , fuller length delivery and on off , Raina presents the full face of the bat and punches it towards mid-on 17.5 Solomon Mire to Raina , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Raina prods forward and defends it with an angled bat , the ball rolls towards mid-wicket 17.4 Solomon Mire to Raina , no run , this is a well directed short ball from Mire , Raina shuffles across and looks to help it on its way , the ball whizzes over his shoulder 17.3 Solomon Mire to Raina , no run , short and angling down leg-side , Raina gets inside the line and looks to help it on its way. Taylor went for an appeal after Raina missed , but Zimbabwe do n't review 17.2 Solomon Mire to Raina , no run , on a length and just outside off , Raina shuffles across and clips it towards mid-wicket 17.1 Solomon Mire to Kohli , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Kohli rides with the bounce and steers it down towards third man for a single 16.6 Mupariwa to Kohli , 1 run , width on offer from Mupariwa , Kohli steers it square on the off-side for a single 16.5 Mupariwa to Kohli , no run , on a good length and on the stumps , Kohli gets forward and drives it towards short mid-wicket 16.4 Mupariwa to Raina , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , dabbed away towards third man for a single Suresh Raina , left handed bat , comes to the crease Openers Rohit Sharma and Shikhar Dhawan survived a few nervous moments. But whenever Zimbabwe 's bowlers bowled short and wide or drifted on their pads , they took advantage of it by collecting runs. Panyangara then was rewarded for his disciplined effort with the wickets of Rohit and Dhawan. Ajinkya Rahane and Virat Kohli looked in fine touch before Rahane was run out. India certainly find themselves in a spot of bother . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis for the first 16.3 overs : Tendai Chatara and Tinashe Panyangara generally bowled with decent control with the new ball. Both the pacers generated a bit of movement in the air. In fact , ever since Panyangara took 6 for 31 for Zimbabwe Under-19 against Australia Under-19 in the Under-19 World Cup in February 2004 , he has been known for bowling a fine outswinger. However , one feels that since Panyangara suffered a stress fracture on his back in mid 2000s and decided to play in the Lincolnshire Premier League in England for a few years , he has lost a yard of pace . Drinks are on the field now 16.3 Mupariwa to Rahane , out Rahane Run Out ! ! Big blow for India. The stand has been broken. This was full and just outside off , Rahane dropped it in front of cover and set-off , Kohli responded initially but stopped as he saw Raza swooping on the ball. Rahane has to turn back and puts in the dive , as he did so , the bat bounced up in the air even as Taylor broke the stumps. Zimbabwe needed a wicket and they have got it in the form of a run-out. Rahane run out ( S Raza/Brendan Taylor ) 19 ( 24 ) [ 4s-3 ] Mupariwa to Rahane , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! The third umpire has been called for a run-out chance. Rahane is the man in question. A direct hit would have had him short , but is he still OUT ? Looks like he is short , the bat is in the air as well. Should be the red-light for Rahane. OUT is the call 16.2 Mupariwa to Kohli , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , punched off the back foot and towards long-on for a single , brings up the 50-run stand as well 16.1 Mupariwa to Rahane , 1 run , length ball and on Rahane 's pads , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a single 15.6 Solomon Mire to Kohli , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , defended with soft hands towards point 15.5 Solomon Mire to Rahane , 1 run , fuller and wider from Mire , slapped away square on the off-side for a single 15.4 Solomon Mire to Kohli , 1 run , tad fuller and just outside off , Kohli leans forward and defends it with an open face towards point , Williams does n't stop the ball cleanly and allows a single 15.3 Solomon Mire to Kohli , 2 runs , on a good length and just outside off , Kohli leans forward , presents the full face of the bat and punches it past extra cover for a brace 15.2 Solomon Mire to Kohli , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Kohli covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 15.1 Solomon Mire to Kohli , no run , the bumper from Mire , Kohli drops his wrists and lets it go 14.6 Mupariwa to Rahane , no run , pitched up and just outside off , punched straight to the fielder at cover 14.5 Mupariwa to Kohli , 1 run , on a length and just outside off , eased down towards long-on for a single 14.4 Mupariwa to Kohli , FOUR , that 's nicely done by Kohli , tad fuller and well outside off , Kohli leans forward , uses the bottom hand to good effect and whips it back over the umpire 's head for a boundary 14.3 Mupariwa to Kohli , 2 runs , too straight from Mupariwa , ends up drifting onto Kohli 's pads , clipped away past mid-wicket for a couple of runs 14.2 Mupariwa to Kohli , no run , fuller and wider from Mupariwa , Kohli leans forward and pushes it towards cover 14.1 Mupariwa to Kohli , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended with a straight bat and towards cover 13.6 Solomon Mire to Rahane , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Rahane was leaning forward on the drive , gets it high on the bat and scoops it over extra cover for a brace 13.5 Solomon Mire to Kohli , 1 run , tad fuller and just outside off , dabbed to the right of cover-point for a single 13.4 Solomon Mire to Kohli , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Kohli gets well forward and creams it to the left of cover. Raza throws himself and prevents the boundary 13.3 Solomon Mire to Kohli , no run , back of a length and well outside off , Kohli gets on top of the bounce and steers it towards backward point 13.2 Solomon Mire to Rahane , 1 run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , worked to the right of mid-on for a single 13.1 Solomon Mire to Rahane , FOUR , loosener from Mire , short and wide outside off , Rahane cuts it up and over point , no chance for third man , nice way to start the over Solomon Mire , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 12.6 Mupariwa to Kohli , no run , back of a length and just outside off , punched back towards the bowler 12.6 Mupariwa to Kohli , wide , Mupariwa slips this one well down leg-side , Taylor moves across quickly and whips the bails off , but Kohli had gone nowhere 12.5 Mupariwa to Kohli , no run , length delivery on off , Kohli prods across and blocks it towards point 12.4 Mupariwa to Rahane , 1 run , tad fuller and on off , pushed to the left of mid-on and Rahane calls for a quick single 12.3 Mupariwa to Kohli , 1 run , short and way outside off , Kohli reaches out and gets a bottom edge towards third man for a single 12.2 Mupariwa to Rahane , 1 run , back of a length and well outside off , steered away square past point for a single The keeper is up to the stumps for Mupariwa 12.1 Mupariwa to Kohli , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , punched towards sweeper cover for a single Tawanda Mupariwa , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 11.6 Chatara to Rahane , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Rahane punches it towards point 11.5 Chatara to Rahane , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , Rahane takes a step forward and defends it with a closed face towards mid-on 11.4 Chatara to Rahane , no run , fuller and wobbling away from off , Rahane blocks it towards cover 11.3 Chatara to Rahane , no run , tad fuller and well outside off , Rahane closes the face of the bat and drives it towards mid-off 11.2 Chatara to Rahane , no run , Chatara shortens his length outside off , Rahane stays back and pushes it towards short cover , with a straight bat 11.1 Chatara to Kohli , 1 run , full and wide from Chatara , Kohli leans into the drive and gets it into the gap past cover , a single to sweeper cover 10.6 Panyangara to Rahane , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven towards mid-off 10.5 Panyangara to Rahane , FOUR , lovely shot , the cover-drive from Rahane , a touch of class in this shot , pitched up and well outside off , Rahane leans forward , meets the ball on top of the bounce and caresses it through extra cover for a boundary 10.4 Panyangara to Rahane , no run , on a length and just outside off , Rahane prods across and defends it towards mid-on 10.3 Panyangara to Rahane , FOUR , that 's a nice way to get going , pitched up and just outside off , Rahane takes a step forward , gets to the pitch of the ball and drives it past mid-off for a boundary 10.2 Panyangara to Rahane , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rahane gets forward and defends it towards the bowler 10.1 Panyangara to Kohli , 1 run , tad fuller and just outside off , dabbed to the right of point for a single 9.6 Chatara to Rahane , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rahane prods forward and blocks 9.5 Chatara to Kohli , 1 run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , punched to the right of mid-off. Mire dives across and parries the ball towards mid-on , Kohli pinches a quick single 9.4 Chatara to Kohli , no run , on a good length and well outside off , Kohli lunges forward in a defensive push 9.4 Chatara to Kohli , wide , this one is miles outside off , another extra added to the total 9.3 Chatara to Kohli , no run , Chatara shortens his length and gets it to hold its line outside off , left alone 9.3 Chatara to Kohli , wide , full and a bit wider outside off , left alone , called as a wide 9.2 Chatara to Kohli , no run , tad fuller and closer to the off-stump line , Kohli gets a big stride forward , lifts his bat and lets it go 9.1 Chatara to Kohli , no run , on a good length and shaping away from that corridor outside off , left alone 8.6 Panyangara to Rahane , no run , pitched up and just outside off , Rahane pushes it towards short cover 8.5 Panyangara to Rahane , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rahane prods forward and defends it with soft hands 8.4 Panyangara to Rahane , no run , that 's nicely bowled by Panyangara , on a good length and in that corridor outside off , Rahane was poking at that and missed 8.3 Panyangara to Kohli , 1 run , tad fuller and just outside off , Kohli drops it in front of cover and calls for a quick single. Raza is quick onto the ball but ca n't get the throw away in time 8.2 Panyangara to Kohli , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , Kohli gets well forward , lifts his bat and lets it go 8.1 Panyangara to Kohli , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Kohli gets well forward and drives it towards mid-on 7.6 Chatara to Kohli , 1 run , much better from Chatara , tad fuller and well outside off , Kohli was in two minds , the ball runs of the face of the bat and rolls away towards third man 7.5 Chatara to Kohli , FOUR , too straight from Chatara and Kohli peppers the mid-wicket boundary with a powerful whip , lunged forward and works it from well outside off 7.4 Chatara to Kohli , no run , on a good length and well outside off , Kohli is happy to let it go 7.3 Chatara to Kohli , FOUR , that 's nicely played by Kohli ! It was merely a check-push , got to the pitch of the ball with a big forward stride and punches it back past the bowler , the ball races away to the fence 7.2 Chatara to Kohli , no run , on a good length and well outside off , Kohli presses forward and drives it towards mid-off 7.2 Chatara to Kohli , wide , Chatara sprays this one way outside off , wide called 7.1 Chatara to Kohli , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Kohli leans forward and blocks it back towards the bowler 6.6 Panyangara to Rahane , no run , double wicket-maiden for Panyangara , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , Rahane gets a big stride forward , lifts his bat and lets it go Ajinkya Rahane , right handed bat , comes to the crease Three slips in place 6.5 Panyangara to Dhawan , out Bowled ! ! Chopped on ! India have lost both openers now. This was short and just outside off , Dhawan was looking to cut it behind point , too close to the off-stump , he 's cramped for room and only manages an inside edge back onto the off-stump. All of a sudden , India find themselves in some trouble. Dhawan b Panyangara 4 ( 20 ) [ 4s-1 ] Panyangara to Dhawan , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 6.4 Panyangara to Dhawan , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from well outside off , easy leave for the batsman 6.3 Panyangara to Dhawan , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Dhawan presses across and defends it 6.2 Panyangara to Dhawan , no run , that 's a loose shot from Dhawan , on a good length and shaping away from well outside off , he was looking to dab it down towards third man and missed Virat Kohli , right handed bat , comes to the crease 6.1 Panyangara to Rohit , out Caught by S Raza ! ! Raza just about held on ! India have lost their first wicket. This was full and on the stumps , Rohit was looking to whip it through the on-side , closed the face of the bat and gets a thick leading edge. The ball goes high and over cover , Raza settles underneath the skier , loses balance as he looked to complete the catch , but just about manages to hold on. Rohit c S Raza b Panyangara 16 ( 21 ) [ 4s-2 ] Panyangara to Rohit , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 5.6 Chatara to Dhawan , no run , nicely bowled by Chatara , fuller length delivery and a hint of nip back into Dhawan , he drives loosely and the ball goes past the inside edge , not very far away from the off stump 5.5 Chatara to Rohit , 1 run , good cricket all-around , Rohit was pushing forward to a full ball , gets an inside edge towards square leg , Chibhabha dives to his left , stops the ball , gets up and shies at the bowler 's end , Rohit makes it in with a dive. The fielder at mid-off hurries across , tumbles and prevents some overthrows 5.4 Chatara to Rohit , no run , Chatara keeps it full and well outside off , driven crisply but straight to the fielder at cover 5.3 Chatara to Rohit , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , driven firmly but straight to the fielder at mid-off 5.2 Chatara to Rohit , no run , that 's a loose shot from Rohit , tad fuller and well outside off , Rohit attempted the cut as an afterthought and missed 5.1 Chatara to Rohit , no run , on a good length and just outside off , dabbed behind point , Dhawan wanted a single and has to hurry back 4.6 Panyangara to Dhawan , no run , tad fuller and on the stumps , Dhawan presses across and defends it towards short square leg 4.5 Panyangara to Dhawan , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Dhawan was looking to cut and gets a bottom edge towards point 4.4 Panyangara to Rohit , 1 run , edged ! On a good length and in that corridor outside off , Rohit was playing with soft hands , third man is a lot more finer now , just a single 4.3 Panyangara to Rohit , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rohit prods forward and blocks A slip and a short cover in place now 4.2 Panyangara to Rohit , 2 runs , poor ball from Panyangara , angled one onto Rohit 's pads , clipped away behind square on the on-side for a brace 4.1 Panyangara to Rohit , 2 runs , once again fraction too straight , this time by Panyangara , worked past mid-wicket for a couple of runs 3.6 Chatara to Dhawan , no run , on a length and just outside off , Dhawan presses forward and drives it towards cover 3.5 Chatara to Dhawan , FOUR , too straight from Chatara , ends up drifting onto Dhawan 's pads , whipped away past mid-wicket. Chakabva gives the chase and ends up diving over the ropes 3.4 Chatara to Dhawan , no run , on a good length and well outside off , Dhawan prods forward and defends it towards cover 3.3 Chatara to Dhawan , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from off , nips back at the last moment , Dhawan was caught on the shuffle , gets an inside edge onto the pads 3.2 Chatara to Rohit , 1 run , too straight from Chatara , ends up drifting onto Rohit 's pads , worked away behind square on the on-side for a single 3.1 Chatara to Rohit , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rohit prods forward and defends it " Still not a full house at Eden Park , even with India now batting. Reports were that this match was sold out , but that 's not the case. Many vacant seats , " says Jamie , who is at the ground . 2.6 Panyangara to Dhawan , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Dhawan hops across and defends it 2.5 Panyangara to Dhawan , no run , tad fuller and shaping away from that channel outside off , left alone 2.4 Panyangara to Dhawan , no run , on a good length and a hint of shape back into the left-hander , Dhawan presses forward and pushes it towards mid-off 2.3 Panyangara to Rohit , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , punched to the left of mid-off for a quick single 2.2 Panyangara to Rohit , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rohit prods across and defends it 2.1 Panyangara to Rohit , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , left alone 1.6 Chatara to Dhawan , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Dhawan presents the full face of the bat and punches it towards mid-off 1.5 Chatara to Dhawan , no run , fuller length delivery and slanting across the left-hander , he is happy to let it go 1.4 Chatara to Dhawan , no run , it 's Dhawan 's turn to try and steal a quick single , pushes one in front of cover and set-off , sent back by Rohit 1.3 Chatara to Dhawan , no run , that 's a beauty from Chatara , pitched up further and going away with the angle , Dhawan is lured into an ambitious drive and is beaten 1.2 Chatara to Dhawan , no run , tad fuller and shaping away from outside off , Dhawan shuffles across , lifts his bat and lets it go 1.1 Chatara to Dhawan , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from the left-hander , he covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go Tendai Chatara , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Panyangara to Rohit , no run , excellent comeback from Panyangara , tad fuller and nipping away at the last moment , Rohit was pressing forward on the defensive push , the ball whizzes past the outside edge 0.5 Panyangara to Rohit , FOUR , much better from Rohit , poor ball from Panyangara , short and wide outside off , Rohit waits on it and punches it square past point , no need to run for those 0.5 Panyangara to Rohit , wide , Panyangara sprays this one well down leg-side , called as a wide 0.4 Panyangara to Rohit , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rohit presses across and defends it towards cover 0.3 Panyangara to Rohit , FOUR , first runs for India and Rohit , not the most convincing shot though , back of a length and in that channel outside off , Rohit was looking to defend with an open face , gets a thick outside edge and past second slip for a boundary 0.2 Panyangara to Rohit , no run , almost a run-out ! On a good length and just outside off , Sharma tapped it in front of cover and set-off , sent back by Dhawan , he gets back in time Two slips in place for Panyangara 0.1 Panyangara to Rohit , no run , on a good length and a hint of shape away from outside off , Rohit is happy to let it go Rohit and Dhawan are at the crease. Rohit is on strike. Panyangara will open the attack Welcome back. On a flat pitch , Zimbabwe posted their highest World Cup score against India , also the highest against India by any team in this World Cup. They fell away rather badly towards the end , but is 287 enough ? Taylor : " It was a slightly two-paced wicket at the start but it flattened out after 15 overs. It was a good partnership with Sean ( Williams ) . Unfortunately , we are 30-40 runs short. They ( India ) have been bowling really well. Once we got the pace of the ball , we took some calculated risks. We all know the batting power-house that they are. Anything over 300 was going to be competitive , but a little bit short in the end. " On an even-paced wicket , the Indian batsmen should be confident of chasing down the target. However , if Zimbabwe can take a few wickets with the new ball , it should make for an interesting contest . Earlier , the pacers bowled superbly to put the Indian team in pole position. Both Umesh Yadav and Shami bowled with unrelenting control and extracted bounce to pick up wickets with the new ball. Zimbabwe 's top-order batsmen paid the price for hanging back in the crease. However , Taylor and to a lesser extent , Williams , scripted a fine turnaround. For India , Mohit Sharma made his mark with his variations and snared three wickets. Shami and Umesh took three wickets as well. Both the spinners struggled , especially with short straight boundaries in place . It was Taylor 's ability to play late and showcase good wrist-work that helped him to negotiate the Indian spinners. It has to be remembered that Sean Williams played a key role as well. Williams played with a full face of the bat , before using his feet and the depth of the crease to smash Ashwin for 16 runs in a single over. Williams was finally dismissed for a breezy innings of 50 in just 57 deliveries . He used reverse sweeps , sweeps and danced down the wicket to check in a series of marvellous strokes. In the slog overs too , Taylor was in imperious touch as he collected boundaries at will in the 38th over of the innings. He soon composed his century in just 99 balls and reached the landmark in style by ramping Mohammed Shami for a six. He became the first player from Zimbabwe to score back-to-back centuries in World Cups. He now also has the most number of hundreds for Zimbabwe in ODIs. Once Taylor completed his hundred , he thumped Jadeja for 24 runs in the 41st over. It included two sixes and three boundaries. Craig Ervine played the second fiddle to Taylor in what turned out to be a partnership dominated by Zimbabwe 's captain. Once both the batsmen were dismissed , Sikandar Raza , with his pyrotechnics tried to make sure that Zimbabwe 's innings wo n't run out of steam , but the pacers came back strongly to bowl out the opposition. India now have bowled out the opposition in every match in this World Cup . Brendan Taylor , in his last match for Zimbabwe , unfurled a slew of thunderous strokes to power them to a good total on the board. Dripping with brilliant stroke-play , Taylor lit up the Eden Park stadium. In particular , he took a heavy toll of Indian spinners , Ravindra Jadeja and Ravichandran Ashwin . When Zimbabwe smashed Jadeja for 25 runs in the 41st over , it looked like 300 was a certainty , but the Indian bowlers have come back well to take the last 6 wickets for just 52 runs . 48.5 U Yadav to Chatara , out Bowled ! ! Full and straight. You miss , I hit ! Chatara does n't get behind the line , beaten for pace again. He looks to play it to the on-side , but misses and the ball crashes into middle and off. Zimbabwe are all-out for 287. Chatara b U Yadav 0 ( 3 ) U Yadav to Chatara , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 48.4 U Yadav to Chatara , no run , short of length on the off stump , blocked to backward point 48.3 U Yadav to Chatara , no run , almost knocked him over. Chatara had no clue about the pace on this short of length delivery , he was so late to bring his bat down and it just bounced over the stumps 48.2 U Yadav to Mupariwa , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , guided to third man Tendai Chatara , right handed bat , comes to the crease 48.1 U Yadav to Chakabva , out Caught by Rohit ! ! Short and on the stumps from Yadav , Chakabva mistimes the pull as the bat turns in his hands , it goes up in the air , looked like Rohit had it covered at deep square leg. He was just standing there , but realised that it was n't coming straight into his hands and then dived forward just in time to complete a low catch. Chakabva c Rohit b U Yadav 10 ( 13 ) U Yadav to Chakabva , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 47.6 Shami to Mupariwa , no run , full and outside off stump , Mupariwa feels for the ball as he looks to drive and gets beaten 47.5 Shami to Chakabva , 1 run , the attempted yorker goes on the full , Chakabva mistimes the slog to mid-wicket 47.4 Shami to Chakabva , no run , short ball from Shami , Chakabva pulls and misses Tawanda Mupariwa , right handed bat , comes to the crease 47.3 Shami to Panyangara , out Caught by U Yadav ! ! In the air and straight down the throat of the man at deep mid-wicket. Length ball in the slot , it was there to be put away , Panyangara goes for the slog , but does n't time it properly and Yadav takes an easy catch. Third wicket for Shami. Panyangara c U Yadav b Shami 6 ( 6 ) [ 4s-1 ] Shami to Panyangara , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 47.2 Shami to Chakabva , leg byes , 1 run , executes another fine yorker , Chakabva swings hard , but the ball goes off the boot to short fine leg 47.1 Shami to Chakabva , no run , that is a brave shot attempted by Chakabva. Bouncer from round the wicket , Chakabva plays the reverse sweep , he was so late on the shot that it passed him before he completed the swing of the bat. Thankfully , his head was n't in the way 46.6 U Yadav to Panyangara , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Panyangara cuts and misses 46.5 U Yadav to Panyangara , no run , plays inside the line of this good length delivery and gets beaten 46.4 U Yadav to Panyangara , 2 runs , driven uppishly , it 's in the gap as well but Dhawan hunts it down running from mid-off. Full and outside off stump , Panyangara sends it through extra-cover 46.3 U Yadav to Panyangara , no run , good length delivery just outside off stump , blocked 46.2 U Yadav to Panyangara , FOUR , misses the yorker and pays the penalty. Full and on the leg stump , Panyangara easily flicks it away behind square on the on-side and opens his account in style 46.1 U Yadav to Chakabva , 1 run , good yorker , right on the middle stump this time , Chakabva digs it out to long leg 46.1 U Yadav to Chakabva , wide , attempts a yorker , but it goes down the leg-side Umesh Yadav [ 8.0-1-34-1 ] is back into the attack Tinashe Panyangara , right handed bat , comes to the crease 45.6 Shami to S Raza , out Bowled ! ! Shami gets his man. When you can bowl such brilliant toe-crushers , why would you bang it short with such small boundaries ? Raza makes a lot of room , Shami bowls a fantastic yorker , Raza tries to reach for it and squeeze it out , but misses and it crashes into the base of middle and off. End of a breezy knock from Raza. S Raza b Shami 28 ( 15 ) [ 4s-1 6s-3 ] Shami to S Raza , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Shami to come round the wicket 45.5 Shami to S Raza , SIX , this time employs the pull short to perfection. Slower ball bouncer again from Shami , Raza goes leg-side , opens himself up and smashes it all the way over deep square leg. This is turning out to be a great little cameo from Raza 45.4 Shami to S Raza , SIX , my word ! That is some shot from Raza. Full and outside off stump , Raza went leg-side , but on seeing Shami fire it outside off stump , he adjusts and throws his bat at it , he carves it very well and it goes all the way over sweeper cover 45.3 Shami to S Raza , FOUR , slower ball bumper this time , Raza rocks back and pulls it to the right of the man at square leg and there is no one in the deep for Raza 45.2 Shami to S Raza , no run , nice bumper at the body of the batsman , Raza manages to sway out of the line though 45.1 Shami to Chakabva , 1 run , short and on the off stump , pulled to deep backward square leg Jadeja ends a costly spell : 10-0-71-0 . 44.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Chakabva , 3 runs , fired in again from Jadeja , Chakabva drives it to the right of point , Dhawan gives chase and pulls it back just in time 44.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Chakabva , no run , backs away , Ravindra Jadeja follows him with a low full toss and mistimes the drive back to the bowler 44.4 Ravindra Jadeja to S Raza , 1 run , short and wide , should have put into the stands , but Raza has cut it straight to the man sweeping on the off-side 44.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Chakabva , 1 run , leading edge , but it goes past the bowler , Chakabva closes the face of the bat a bit too early and gets away with the edge 44.2 Ravindra Jadeja to S Raza , 1 run , flighted delivery from Jadeja , Raza goes leg-side and tries to drive through extra-cover , but gets a thickish edge that rolls to short third man , they take a brisk run , the fielder fires a direct-hit but Chakabva was in Appeal for run-out sent upstairs. But the batsman is well in . 44.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Chakabva , 1 run , flatter and short on the leg stump , Chakabva pulls it behind square on the on-side. He slips after playing the shot Ravindra Jadeja [ 9.0-0-64-0 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Mohit Sharma to Chakabva , 1 run , gets across the stumps and flick-pulls the short ball , it goes on the bounce to fine leg 43.5 Mohit Sharma to S Raza , 1 run , high full toss and Mohit gets away with it as Raza only manages to flick it to the right of the short fine leg 43.4 Mohit Sharma to S Raza , 2 runs , slower ball outside off stump , Raza delays the cut and sends it to the right of backward point 43.3 Mohit Sharma to S Raza , SIX , that 's smashed ! Short again from Mohit , Raza rocks back and pulls it hard and flat over wide long-on 43.2 Mohit Sharma to Chakabva , 1 run , short and on the stumps , Chakabva mistimes the pull to deep backward square leg Regis Chakabva , right handed bat , comes to the crease 43.1 Mohit Sharma to C Ervine , out Caught&Bowled ! ! Mohit completely does Ervine in. Back of the hand slower delivery , Ervine was shaping to play the big hit , was lining up for the stroke , but expected the ball to come quickly , it was the slower one and the ball takes the defensive blade of Ervine as he stopped his stroke , a dolly back to the bowler. Mohit 's back of the hand stuff once again getting him a wicket. C Ervine c and b Mohit Sharma 27 ( 41 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] Mohit Sharma to C Ervine , THATS OUT ! ! Caught&Bowled ! ! Great scenes at Eden Park after Taylor was dismissed. Raina too walked up to him and congratulated him. The crowd standing up gave a rousing ovation. Taylor knowing and sensing the occasion , took his time to leave and waved his bat to all corners of the ground. He finally left and at the edge of the boundary there were the Zimbabwean players and officials who too applauded him off. Superb stuff ! 42.6 Ashwin to S Raza , no run , defended back to the bowler 42.5 Ashwin to S Raza , no run , well bowled. Yorker from Ashwin as he saw Raza advancing , Raza adjusts and blocks it out , did well to keep it out 42.4 Ashwin to S Raza , no run , flatter and on the stumps , punched back to Ashwin 42.3 Ashwin to C Ervine , 1 run , Ervine comes down the track and whips that to deep mid-wicket 42.2 Ashwin to S Raza , 1 run , down leg , Raza tucks it to short fine leg , for a single 42.1 Ashwin to S Raza , no run , turned to short mid-wicket , Raza is sent back by Ervine Ravichandran Ashwin [ 9.0-0-73-1 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Mohit Sharma to C Ervine , FOUR , shot ! Mohit digging it in and Ervine cashes in with a short-arm pull , over mid-wicket , a whiplash of a stroke and it runs away to the deep mid-wicket fence. Spoils the over for Mohit Sikandar Raza , right handed bat , comes to the crease 41.5 Mohit Sharma to Brendan Taylor , out Caught by Dhawan ! ! End of Brendan Taylor for the last time in Zimbabwean colours and he walks off to a standing ovation. Look at that - Kohli and Dhawan walk up to him and congratulate him , saying well played. Good to see. Gets a hug from Ervine and Raza the incoming batsman. The entire Zimbabwean team is standing in unison to clap. A couple of officials are there too. Pretty emotional scenes out there as he walks off. Coming back to the wicket , well bowled by Mohit , seam-up and on middle , Taylor making room to go big , miscued it to mid-on. Simple catch and one hand came off the bat handle as Taylor was completely done in by the length. Brendan Taylor c Dhawan b Mohit Sharma 138 ( 110 ) [ 4s-15 6s-5 ] Mohit Sharma to Brendan Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 41.4 Mohit Sharma to C Ervine , 1 run , drilled to mid-on , Ashwin fumbles and gives away the single. The Indian fielding has become a bit ragged of late 41.3 Mohit Sharma to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , Mohit keeps his cool and follows Taylor who was making room to go big on the off-side , gets an inside edge onto the pads and the ball rolls to cover , they take an easy single 41.2 Mohit Sharma to C Ervine , 1 run , whipped to short fine leg , there is a direct hit from the fielder , Brendan Taylor has n't grounded his bat , but gets his foot in , beats the throw. Referred upstairs , and the decision is made 41.1 Mohit Sharma to C Ervine , no run , Ervine backs away and defends to the fielder at point , no chance of the single 40.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , SIX , make that 25 off the over ! Taylor so easily hitting Ravindra Jadeja out of the attack. Another of those well-timed , clean hits , this time over long-on , goes a long way back. Ravindra Jadeja tried everything in that over and still got hammered. Too good from Brendan Taylor 40.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , Ravindra Jadeja changes the angle , goes over the wicket , but it does n't matter to Brendan Taylor , who latches on to a poor delivery , down leg , swept powerfully behind square , beating the short fine inside the ring , what will Ravindra Jadeja do now ? It was a one bounce four over the ropes 40.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , SIX , caught one-handed by a man in the crowd - an Indian wearing the tee that makes him eligible for the one million dollars. Superb lofted drive , so cleanly struck and over long-off , Ravindra Jadeja going too full and getting hammered , this is now becoming a classic innings from the Zimbabwean skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni and Ravindra Jadeja have a chat 40.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , another boundary. Taylor uses his feet and drags the slog , but finds the deep at deep mid-wicket , the ball bounces away and beats the man running across from long-on 40.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , a flat sweep and Brendan Taylor gets a boundary. Kneels down and hits the gap behind square , he is hurting the Indians a lot 40.1 Ravindra Jadeja to C Ervine , 1 run , whipped away to deep backward square leg Ravindra Jadeja [ 8.0-0-39-0 ] is back into the attack 39.6 Mohit Sharma to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , bad fumble by Rohit at cover-point , Brendan Taylor backed away and cut to his left and despite Rohit getting across , fumbled and allowed the ball to go through his grasp. Mohit is a disappointed man 39.5 Mohit Sharma to C Ervine , 1 run , full on the stumps , clipped to long-on 39.4 Mohit Sharma to C Ervine , no run , low full toss on the stumps , Ervine makes room and drives it straight to the fielder at mid-off , inside the ring 39.3 Mohit Sharma to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , Mohit bowls the slower delivery and then Taylor makes room and drives to long-off 39.2 Mohit Sharma to C Ervine , 1 run , a direct hit from Shami at backward square leg , but Brendan Taylor is in , he plonked his bat in and got in. Refered to the third umpire and he has an easy job 39.1 Mohit Sharma to C Ervine , no run , backs away and dabs , but straight to the fielder at point 38.6 Shami to Brendan Taylor , SIX , beautiful shot. Tad overpitched from Shami and Brendan Taylor makes him pay. Lofted flat and it goes all the way at long-off. That is a fine shot 38.5 Shami to C Ervine , 1 run , whipped to backward square leg , just a single as the ball is fielded on the bounce 38.5 Shami to C Ervine , wide , down leg , Ervine pulls and misses , called a wide 38.4 Shami to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , guides this away to backward point for a run 38.3 Shami to Brendan Taylor , SIX , Brendan Taylor has a 100 on his last ODI for Zimbabwe. Back-to-back tons as well. What a shot to get there. Ramps the short delivery outside off to the third man fence , carries into the first tier , look at the celebration as well , removes the helmet and waves the bat in the air vigorously , very emotional man today is Brendan Taylor , Ervine comes across and gives him a hug. Well-deserved too and why is he retiring ? Zimbabwe needs him the most 38.2 Shami to Brendan Taylor , no run , off-break outside off , Brendan Taylor lets it go , Dhoni opts to use his pads to stop that 38.1 Shami to Brendan Taylor , 2 runs , pitched up outside off , Brendan Taylor goes over cover , not so well-timed , but got it over the man inside the ring Mohammed Shami [ 6.0-2-13-1 ] is back into the attack Jamie chimes in with this remark : Some lovely lofted shots by Taylor earlier and now Ervine gets going. That six off Umesh flew over mid-on. Many boundaries are followed by Hindi film music . 37.6 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , calmly works it to deep backward square leg , retains the strike with that run 37.5 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , Brendan Taylor gets into the nineties with another calculated drive. Backs away and drills the drive wide of the diving cover , long-off is nowhere to be seen 37.4 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , no run , so close to the leg stump ! Brendan Taylor missed the reverse and Ashwin had fired it in , whisker away from kissing leg 37.4 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , wide , down leg , called wide 37.3 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , fabulous shot. Brendan Taylor makes room and then lofts over Ashwin 's head , it goes and thuds into the straight boundary. So effortlessly done 37.2 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , 2 runs , tossed up outside off , Brendan Taylor takes it from there and sweeps to fine leg , lots of work for deep backward square leg and he gets there 37.1 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , no run , uses his feet and works it to the mid-wicket fielder Ravichandran Ashwin [ 8.0-0-61-1 ] is back into the attack 36.6 U Yadav to C Ervine , no run , pitches outside leg and beats Ervine 's flick , hit on the pad and the ball rolls away 36.5 U Yadav to C Ervine , SIX , magnificent shot. Ervine uses his feet and drop-kicks it into the crowd at long-on. Slower ball and Ervine took full toll of it , dropped in the crowd by a man wearing the promo tee , he went for it one-handed , but another fella distracted him by going for the catch , put it down despite getting a hand 36.4 U Yadav to C Ervine , no run , short of length on the stumps , defended to the left of Yadav 36.4 U Yadav to C Ervine , wide , slower delivery goes wrong , down leg , called wide 36.3 U Yadav to C Ervine , no run , short and down leg , Ervine pulls and misses , Yadav lucky to get away with that one 36.2 U Yadav to C Ervine , no run , slower delivery from Yadav and he follows Ervine , who was backing away , turned to square leg 36.1 U Yadav to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , short of length on the stumps , Brendan Taylor defends it in front of mid-on , single Umesh Yadav [ 7.0-1-26-1 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Shami to C Ervine , 2 runs , on the pads , flicked to deep backward square leg , two it is as it is placed well 35.5 Shami to C Ervine , no run , back of a length on middle and leg , Ervine closes the face of the bat and gets a soft leading edge back to the bowler 35.4 Shami to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , now Brendan Taylor closes the face of the bat and gets the slower delivery to short fine leg , single taken 35.3 Shami to C Ervine , 1 run , on a length and on the stumps , nudged with a closed face to backward square leg 35.2 Shami to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , driven to Mohit at mid-off , who fumbles and they take a single 35.1 Shami to Brendan Taylor , no run , full and on the stumps , driven straight to the fielder at mid-on Mohammed Shami [ 5.0-2-8-1 ] is back into the attack Here are a few more interesting facts about Taylor. He made his First-Class debut at the age of 16 for Mashonaland A. Interestingly , Taylor made his Test debut against Sri Lanka at the age of 18 without a single First-Class hundred to his name. Zimbabwe had to pick him due to a mass exodus of senior players . Both the batsmen played late , showed good wrist-work , used the depth of the crease and stayed low to bisect the gaps in the field against the spinners. Taylor and Williams then compiled fine fifties. Ashwin though , picked up the wicket of Williams. There were doubts about whether Ashwin had taken the catch cleanly , but the third umpire decided the catch was clean . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the last 18 overs : Two of Zimbabwe 's better batsmen , Brendan Taylor and Sean Williams , played with self-belief to play fine shots as they tried to resurrect their fortunes. In fact , Taylor looked to unsettle the Indian spinners Ravichandran Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja by using the reverse sweep to good effect. On the other hand , Williams played with a full face of the bat and gave Taylor good support before bringing out the reverse sweep. He also played the slog sweep to thwack Ashwin for a six. Williams continued to unfurl a series of stunning strokes. With twinkle-toed footwork , he thwacked Ashwin for two sixes and a four . Drinks are on the field now 34.6 Ashwin to C Ervine , no run , slower on the stumps , Ervine gets forward and defends solidly 34.5 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , gets forward and drives to long-on , for a single 34.4 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , SIX , that is a monster hit. Brendan Taylor charging Ashwin and targetting the boundary at deep mid-wicket. Lofted across the line and well caught by a gentleman in the crowd , but not wearing the shirt that makes him eligible for the one million dollars prize 34.3 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , kneels down and top-edges the sweep , behind square , almost all the way , one bounce over the ropes , pre-meditated but well hit 34.2 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , no run , flatter , Brendan Taylor clips it to short mid-wicket 34.1 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , no run , reverse swept , well , but Dhawan at point dives to his left and saves runs This stat from my colleague , Raju - Brendan Taylor after that edged four has now moved into third on the all-time list for most runs by a Zimbabwean , going past Alistair Campbell. Andy Flower and Grant Flower are 1 and 2. Pity he wo n't have the chance to go past those two 33.6 Mohit Sharma to C Ervine , no run , Mohit Sharma holds his hands on his head after beating Ervine , outside off , it was a good length delivery angled across , Ervine pushed out and got beaten 33.5 Mohit Sharma to C Ervine , no run , short and looked like the cutter , came on slowly off the track , Ervine pulls across the line and the ball misses the shot 33.4 Mohit Sharma to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , short of length outside off , dabbed to the right of point , for a single 33.3 Mohit Sharma to Brendan Taylor , no run , back of the hand slower delivery outside off , left alone 33.2 Mohit Sharma to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , now a lucky edge and four. Taylor went for a big drive and got a thick outside edge , no slip and it will be a boundary. Mahendra Singh Dhoni applauds Mohit Sharma for that error from Brendan Taylor 33.1 Mohit Sharma to Brendan Taylor , no run , Brendan Taylor arches back and leaves the short delivery , then at the last moment wants to ramp it and does n't connect. Second time that has happened today 32.6 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , Taylor just wrists that to long-on , for a single 32.5 Ashwin to C Ervine , 1 run , sliding on middle , Ervine closes the face of the bat and turns it gently to deep backward square leg 32.4 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , goes on the back foot and punches it wide of short mid-wicket 32.3 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , that is a slog ! Brendan Taylor waiting for the offie to turn and then swatting it across the line , wide of long-on , one bounce over the ropes , hit it well though 32.2 Ashwin to C Ervine , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , whipped off the back foot to long-on 32.1 Ashwin to C Ervine , no run , the ball stops on Ervine who pushes it to cover , well bowled by Ashwin , held it up a little 31.6 Mohit Sharma to C Ervine , 1 run , on a length and outside off , Ervine gets forward to drive to sweeper cover , retains the strike with that run 31.5 Mohit Sharma to C Ervine , no run , Ervine plays outside the line of the ball and is late on the punch , is beaten on the inside edge , the ball stays down low and goes under the bat , bounces in front of Dhoni who does well to stop the ball 31.4 Mohit Sharma to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , Brendan Taylor gets inside the line and then nudges it to deep backward square leg 31.3 Mohit Sharma to C Ervine , 1 run , pitched up outside off , driven off the front foot to sweeper cover 31.2 Mohit Sharma to C Ervine , no run , pitched up outside off , Ervine gets forward to drive and it beats the batsman. So close to the outside edge too 31.1 Mohit Sharma to C Ervine , no run , on a good length and on off , Ervine defends with the open face to backward point Mohit Sharma [ 5.0-1-15-1 ] is back into the attack 30.6 Ashwin to C Ervine , 1 run , Ervine uses his feet and drives to long-off 30.5 Ashwin to C Ervine , no run , Ervine wants to get to the pitch of it , but the ball drops on him and he defends it back to the bowler 30.4 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , flatter outside off , punched to long-off 30.3 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , no run , Brendan Taylor takes a step out and then has to defend with bat and pad close together to short mid-wicket 30.2 Ashwin to C Ervine , 1 run , Ervine gets forward to defend , gets a thick inside edge behind square as the ball drifted in 30.1 Ashwin to C Ervine , no run , flatter on off , punched to point 29.6 U Yadav to C Ervine , 1 run , full outside off , driven well off the front foot to deep extra cover , only a single though 29.5 U Yadav to C Ervine , no run , short outside off , Ervine tries to fetch that from there , mistimed pull to mid-on 29.4 U Yadav to C Ervine , no run , down leg , short too , Ervine ducks under it 29.3 U Yadav to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , Brendan Taylor closes the face of the bat and glances it down to fine leg 29.2 U Yadav to Brendan Taylor , no run , straight off the thigh pad and caught by Dhoni , appeal for caught behind , but not given. No bat as Brendan Taylor missed the glance 29.1 U Yadav to Brendan Taylor , no run , short of length outside off , Brendan Taylor hops back and defends 28.6 Ashwin to C Ervine , no run , gets forward and pushes it to point 28.5 Ashwin to C Ervine , no run , so nearly another for Ashwin , Ervine gets forward to defend and gets a thick inside edge , the ball rolls close to the off stump and does n't miss by much. Ashwin thought he had another 28.4 Ashwin to C Ervine , no run , well bowled , slower , flighted and outside off , Ervine plays inside the line and lets it go Craig Ervine , left handed bat , comes to the crease 28.3 Ashwin to Sean Williams , out Caught&Bowled ! ! Ashwin has the last laugh. He has taken a pasting from Sean Williams , but has got him out. Sean Williams came down the track and slammed it low and flat , Ashwin bent down low and grabbed it , the fingers seemed to be under the ball , but also looked like the ball hit the turf as he took it. A close call , and the benefit of doubt has gone to Ashwin. Marginal and could 've gone either ways. Sean Williams c and b Ashwin 50 ( 57 ) [ 4s-3 6s-3 ] Ashwin to Sean Williams , THATS OUT ! ! Caught&Bowled ! ! Ashwin has taken a caught and bowled. He throws it up in the air , but Sean Williams is n't going. A low catch taken , but has Ashwin grounded the ball ? Looks like he has grounded it. Definitely the ball seems to have touched the ground. But the third umpire has given it out. Just had a couple of looks at the replay and gave it out. Oxenford while asking for the third umpire 's help , signalled it as out. That might have influenced the third umpire . Ashwin , Mahendra Singh Dhoni and Kohli again have a chat 28.2 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , takes a step out and knocks it to the mid-wicket area 28.1 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , no run , tossed up on off , Brendan Taylor gets forward to defend to Ashwin Ravichandran Ashwin [ 4.0-0-38-0 ] is back into the attack 27.6 U Yadav to Sean Williams , no run , beaten on the slash. Yadav generating extra pace and bounce there 27.5 U Yadav to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , back of a length outside off , Brendan Taylor angles it down to third man 27.4 U Yadav to Brendan Taylor , 2 runs , short of length outside off , dabbed wide and to the right of third man , two it is 27.3 U Yadav to Sean Williams , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Sean Williams plays a square drive , to the left of backward point , who dives and takes some pace off the ball , he too gets to his fifty. A fine effort 27.2 U Yadav to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , fifty for Brendan Taylor in his last innings for Zimbabwe. Calmly knocks this in front of mid-on and takes the single. Dav Whatmore applauds. Brendan Taylor raises the bat and gets on with it So Sean Williams has hit Ashwin out of the attack 27.1 U Yadav to Sean Williams , 1 run , short of length on the stumps , hurries onto Sean Williams who pulls to deep mid-wicket Umesh Yadav [ 5.0-1-18-1 ] is back into the attack 26.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Sean Williams , 1 run , down leg , whipped uppishly to deep backward square leg 26.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , Brendan Taylor opens the face of the bat and drives to sweeper cover 26.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , no run , takes a step out and drills it straight back to the bowler 26.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , no run , round-armish , bunted to cover 26.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , no run , Brendan Taylor is hit high on the bat , but the balls falls in the vacant short leg area 26.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , no run , only Ravindra Jadeja appealed there as Brendan Taylor came down and got struck on the pad , the batsman was well down the track and also outside the line of off 25.6 Ashwin to Sean Williams , no run , down leg , glanced straight to the fielder at short fine 25.5 Ashwin to Sean Williams , FOUR , Sean Williams is hitting Ashwin out of the attack. Exceptional batting against spin. Comes down the track and then takes it on the full , hammers it wide of cover and gives long-off no chance 25.4 Ashwin to Sean Williams , no run , tossed up on off , Sean Williams stretches forward to defend to cover Kohli , Mahendra Singh Dhoni and Ashwin have a chat. Ashwin now coming over the wicket 25.3 Ashwin to Sean Williams , SIX , fine batting. Sean Williams charging Ashwin and then slogging him over deep mid-wicket. Williams has put Ashwin under pressure , it was played against the spin and still he hit it off the middle of the bat 25.2 Ashwin to Sean Williams , no run , Ashwin comes back well , the ball drops on Sean Williams who did well to play with soft hands and push it to backward point 25.1 Ashwin to Sean Williams , SIX , Sean Williams gets a six off Ashwin off the first ball of the over for the second time. Skips out and then heaves the bowler over deep mid-wicket , connected beautifully and sent the ball soaring 24.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Sean Williams , 1 run , down leg , whipped to deep backward square leg 24.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , well outside off , Brendan Taylor drives to long-off 24.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , no run , sliding in on middle , Brendan Taylor turns it to short mid-wicket 24.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , no run , Brendan Taylor stays back and punches it to point 24.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , no run , quicker from Ravindra Jadeja , Brendan Taylor defends it back down the track 24.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Sean Williams , 1 run , Sean Williams makes room and cuts that to point , quick single taken 23.6 Ashwin to Sean Williams , 1 run , Sean Williams gets forward to drive and the ball drops on him , he outside edges the drive to the left of point , single taken 23.5 Ashwin to Sean Williams , no run , stays low and defends to cover , well bowled by Ashwin as it was on a teasing line and length 23.4 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , Brendan Taylor gets forward to defend , gets a thick inside edge to backward square leg 23.3 Ashwin to Sean Williams , 1 run , Sean Williams gets forward and eases a single to long-on 23.2 Ashwin to Sean Williams , no run , Ashwin drags the length back a bit and bowls it slower , pushed to cover 23.1 Ashwin to Sean Williams , SIX , that 's into the upper tier ! Sean Williams kneeling down and slog-sweeps Ashwin miles into the deep mid-wicket region 22.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Sean Williams , 1 run , forced past the diving Ravindra Jadeja , to his left 22.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Sean Williams , no run , use of the feet again , punched straight to the fielder at cover 22.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Sean Williams , no run , Sean Williams uses his feet and drives it back to Ravindra Jadeja , who threatens to throw it back and that pleases the Indian crowd who roar Dhoni and Ravindra Jadeja have a chat. Field change ? No. Same field 22.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Sean Williams , FOUR , Sean Williams gets going with the reverse sweep. Knows backward point is inside and goes over that man , hit in the air and it 's a boundary 22.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , down leg , tucked to deep square leg 22.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Sean Williams , 1 run , comes down the track and gets it down to long-on 21.6 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , Brendan Taylor is toying with the field now. Dhoni brought the short third in and he has reverse swept it to his right. Powerfully struck and gave the fielder inside the ring no chance 21.5 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , no run , Brendan Taylor gets forward to push through cover , a thick inside edge goes to short mid-wicket 21.4 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , no run , now Brendan Taylor looks to paddle and misses , gets outside the line of off , so India 's appeal for lbw is rightly rejected 21.3 Ashwin to Sean Williams , 1 run , clipped past mid-wicket for a single 21.2 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Brendan Taylor gets forward and drives to long-off 21.1 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , and Brendan Taylor unfurls the reverse sweep once more , no-one at third man and it races away , had to reach out for the shot and connected well Ravichandran Ashwin [ 1.0-0-3-0 ] is back into the attack 20.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , Brendan Taylor presses forward to defend , gets a thick inside edge onto the pads , goes to the vacant square leg region 20.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , no run , now punches and finds point 20.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , Raina was behind Dhoni , but he had no chance , Brendan Taylor reverse sweeping and getting a boundary to third man. Ridiculously short boundaries at Eden Park 20.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , no run , tossed up outside off , Brendan Taylor gets forward to push to cover 20.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Sean Williams , 1 run , comes down the track and drives to long-off 20.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Sean Williams , 2 runs , backs away and punches it wide of Ashwin at point , they take a comfortable two 19.6 Mohit Sharma to Brendan Taylor , no run , back of a length on the hips , nudged to the right of backward square leg. Mohit Sharma keeping things very tight 19.5 Mohit Sharma to Brendan Taylor , no run , short of length outside off , dabbed to the left of point 19.4 Mohit Sharma to Brendan Taylor , no run , Brendan Taylor gets forward and softly defends , to leg , the ball goes to short mid-wicket 19.3 Mohit Sharma to Brendan Taylor , 2 runs , full outside off , Brendan Taylor opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man , takes on Shami and makes it in the end. Was a close two , but Shami 's throw was n't right on top of the stumps 19.2 Mohit Sharma to Sean Williams , 1 run , pitched up outside off , driven well to sweeper cover 19.1 Mohit Sharma to Sean Williams , no run , back of a length on off , defended to cover 18.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Sean Williams , 1 run , whipped off the stumps , to deep mid-wicket 18.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Sean Williams , no run , another dart , Sean Williams finds mid-wicket 18.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Sean Williams , no run , flatter on off , whipped to the mid-wicket fielder 18.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Sean Williams , no run , reverses now and hits the sweep straight to the fielder at backward point 18.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Sean Williams , no run , Sean Williams skips out and is n't to the pitch of the ball , pushes it back to Ravindra Jadeja 18.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Brendan Taylor gets forward and drives to sweeper cover 17.6 Mohit Sharma to Sean Williams , no run , pitched up outside off , Sean Williams opens the face of the bat and drives well to the left of point , Jadeja moves across , dives and keeps the batsmen at their respective ends 17.5 Mohit Sharma to Sean Williams , no run , Sean Williams looks to drive and gets a thick inside edge back to the bowler From round the wicket now 17.4 Mohit Sharma to Sean Williams , no run , shuffles across and defends it back to Mohit Sharma 17.3 Mohit Sharma to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , length ball on off and middle , clipped to deep square leg 17.2 Mohit Sharma to Sean Williams , 1 run , clipped to the left of mid-wicket for a single 17.1 Mohit Sharma to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , dug in short by Mohit Sharma , Brendan Taylor fends it down and into the vacant square leg area In 2011 , Taylor became only the second Zimbabwe batsman after Kevin Arnott to score a century in the fourth innings of a Test match. He essayed that stellar ton against New Zealand in Bulawayo. On the other hand , Arnott , known for his compact defence , had played a stoic innings against New Zealand to amass a hundred in Bulawayo in 1992. Taylor also became the first batsman from Zimbabwe to score back-to-back ODI hundreds when Zimbabwe played New Zealand in 2011 . As today is also Taylor 's last game for his country , here are a few interesting facts about Zimbabwe 's captain for this match. He was mentored by none other than Alistair Campbell 's father , Iain Campbell , during his younger days. " He ( Iain Campbell ) certainly was a massive influence on me at an early age along with my father. I owe a lot to him , but sadly he passed away a few years ago , " Taylor was quoted as saying by cricnama . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the first 17 overs : On a wicket that offered the Indian pacers pace and bounce , they started on a great note. Both Mohammed Shami and Umesh Yadav bowled with good control. Shami also generated a bit of swing. It was Umesh , who got the reward for bowling a fuller length by producing the edge to take the wicket of Hamilton Masakadza. It was the fuller length that resulted in Masakadza getting caught in the crease. Shami and Mohit Sharma then produced the wickets of Chamu Chibhabha and Solomon Mire , respectively. Zimbabwe could have found themselves in a dire straits , but MS Dhoni dropped a tough chance , with Sean Williams getting a reprieve. Zimbabwe 's batsmen have paid the price for hanging back in the crease. However , Brendan Taylor has looked in fine touch. From India 's point of view , they have bowled and fielded brilliantly . Drinks are on the field now 16.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Sean Williams , no run , driven straight back to the bowler 16.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , calmly wrists that to long-on , to turn the strike over 16.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , Shami at long-on fails to judge that properly. A better fielder would 've got under that and probably caught it. Shami was standing in the shade and reacted late , Brendan Taylor used the feet and lofted it , it was in the air and went at a catchable height , Shami in the end did n't even get a finger on it after running to his left. Jadeja is n't happy with that effort from Shami 16.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Sean Williams , 1 run , gets forward and forces a drive to long-on 16.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Sean Williams , no run , Sean Williams gets forward to defend in front of point , looks for the quick single , sent back 16.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Sean Williams , FOUR , shot. Sean Williams comes down the track and goes with the lofted hit , wide of mid-off in the ring 15.6 Mohit Sharma to Sean Williams , 1 run , too straight from Mohit Sharma and Sean Williams tucks it wide of mid-on 15.6 Mohit Sharma to Sean Williams , wide , too short and wide called 15.5 Mohit Sharma to Sean Williams , no run , fuller length outside off , driven straight to the fielder at mid-off 15.4 Mohit Sharma to Sean Williams , no run , pitched up outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover 15.3 Mohit Sharma to Sean Williams , no run , on a length and on off , Sean Williams opens the face of the bat and defends to the right of backward point 15.2 Mohit Sharma to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , Brendan Taylor takes a step out and looks to drive through cover , but another inside edge and it runs through vacant short mid-wicket 15.1 Mohit Sharma to Brendan Taylor , no run , Brendan Taylor gets forward to drive , through cover , but the ball takes the inside half and rolls to mid-on 14.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Sean Williams , no run , tossed up outside off , Sean Williams defends it back to Ravindra Jadeja 14.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , goes on the back foot and punches it to long-off 14.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , no run , again ca n't get it past cover 14.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , no run , pushed to the right of Ravindra Jadeja 14.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , no run , flighted delivery outside off , driven to cover 14.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , no run , tossed up outside off , left alone 13.6 Mohit Sharma to Sean Williams , no run , pushes it to the right of cover , looks for a quick single , not there 13.5 Mohit Sharma to Sean Williams , no run , inside edge and dropped by Dhoni. Very tough chance though , Sean Williams looking to defend and getting a thick inside edge , Dhoni went for it with one hand to his right , but failed to hang on. It hit his wrist and went down Is down currently and receiving some treatment from the physio. Everything seems fine now and he is ok to continue 13.4 Mohit Sharma to Sean Williams , no run , Sean Williams checks the forward punch and finds cover. Mohit Sharma seems to have done some damage to his left ankle , he twisted his ankle as he steps on the ridge next to the pitch , hobbles for a while , as he is checked on by his team-mates 13.3 Mohit Sharma to Sean Williams , no run , tight delivery on off stump , Williams defends to cover 13.2 Mohit Sharma to Sean Williams , no run , back of a length on off , defended to cover 13.1 Mohit Sharma to Sean Williams , no run , superb fielding from Raina at slip , he dives to his left and saves a few runs , Sean Williams playing with soft hands and controlling the edge , but Raina was there Mohit Sharma [ 1.0-0-6-1 ] is back into the attack 12.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Sean Williams , 1 run , on off stump , whipped to deep mid-wicket 12.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Sean Williams , no run , sliding on outside off , Sean Williams cuts and misses 12.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , very short outside off , Brendan Taylor punches it to sweeper cover 12.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , no run , quicker and on the stumps , Brendan Taylor turns it to short mid-wicket 12.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , calculated sweep that. Tossed up outside off , Brendan Taylor kneels down and sweeps behind square , easy boundary Slip and a leg slip in place 12.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Brendan Taylor , no run , Brendan Taylor defends it to short cover and sets off , Sean Williams sends him back though Ravindra Jadeja , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 11.6 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , another offie , Brendan Taylor gets forward to clip to long-on 11.5 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , no run , offbreak , turned straight to the fielder at short mid-wicket 11.4 Ashwin to Sean Williams , 1 run , low full toss , driven past the diving Ashwin to his right 11.3 Ashwin to Sean Williams , no run , bounce for Ashwin , but sliding down leg , Sean Williams gets forward to defend and is hit on the pad 11.2 Ashwin to Sean Williams , no run , Williams gets forward and smothers it back to Ashwin 's left Slip and a leg slip in place. Now round the wicket to the leftie 11.1 Ashwin to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Brendan Taylor gets forward and wrists it to long-on Ravichandran Ashwin , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Sean Williams , left handed bat , comes to the crease 10.6 Mohit Sharma to Solomon Mire , out Caught by Dhoni ! ! So nonchalant , that I thought it was not a wicket. Dhoni caught it and just threw the ball away. Credit to Solomon Mire , who walked , without waiting for the ump 's decision. On a good length and outside off , Solomon Mire sparred at that and got a thin edge. Mohit Sharma strikes in his first over. Solomon Mire c Dhoni b Mohit Sharma 9 ( 22 ) [ 4s-1 ] Mohit Sharma to Solomon Mire , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 10.5 Mohit Sharma to Solomon Mire , no run , short of length outside off , punched to cover 10.4 Mohit Sharma to Solomon Mire , 2 runs , Jadeja with the running and he does well to save two runs. Sprints after the cut shot is played into the gap at point , dives and pulls it back. Rohit does the mopping up 10.3 Mohit Sharma to Solomon Mire , FOUR , Solomon Mire throws his bat and gets one away. Swing for Mohit Sharma , but hit in the air , well wide of point , third man had no chance 10.2 Mohit Sharma to Solomon Mire , no run , Sharma gets swing , lovely outswinger , Solomon Mire plays an airy-fairy drive and is beaten by a long way 10.1 Mohit Sharma to Solomon Mire , no run , back of a length outside off , Solomon Mire plays it to point , not well-timed at all Mohit Sharma , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 9.6 U Yadav to Brendan Taylor , 2 runs , shortish outside off , chopped hard into the ground , second slip dives to his left and deflects it away , Dhawan racing back puts in the dive to pull it back. Ashwin sends in the throw and it is backed up in the field 9.5 U Yadav to Brendan Taylor , no run , nips back in and catches Brendan Taylor on the pad , but was high and going down as well 9.4 U Yadav to Brendan Taylor , no run , short outside off , Brendan Taylor was swaying away , then decided to ramp it as the ball went past him , missed it 9.3 U Yadav to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , that 's Brendan Taylor 's shot. When he sees the length outside off , he decides to go over mid-off. Hit on-the-up and deliberately hit in the air. Gets a pleasing boundary 9.2 U Yadav to Brendan Taylor , no run , on a length and outside off , left alone 9.1 U Yadav to Brendan Taylor , 2 runs , pushed straight down the ground , Yadav sticks his right boot out and deflects it away to mid-off , Kohli runs after the ball and stops it 8.6 Shami to Solomon Mire , no run , swing for Shami , but slips it down leg , Solomon Mire fails to flick that away , fielded at backward square leg 8.5 Shami to Solomon Mire , no run , well outside off , Solomon Mire was nowhere as he tried to slash , the ball missed the bat by a long way 8.4 Shami to Solomon Mire , no run , too high and Oxenford shakes his head , it nips back in and Solomon Mire missed the flick. Hit on the thigh pad. Would 've gone over 8.3 Shami to Solomon Mire , no run , full and on off , Solomon Mire gets forward to defend to cover 8.2 Shami to Solomon Mire , no run , nips back in and Solomon Mire defends it hard into the ground , turns around to look for the ball , the ball bounces and spins periliously wide of the stumps 8.1 Shami to Solomon Mire , no run , on a length and outside off , Solomon Mire dabs that to cover 8.1 Shami to Solomon Mire , wide , down leg , called wide 7.6 U Yadav to Brendan Taylor , no run , back of a length outside off , Brendan Taylor looks to punch , but it goes off a thick inside half to mid-on 7.5 U Yadav to Brendan Taylor , 2 runs , on a good length and outside off , Brendan Taylor punches it sweetly , in the gap at cover , but Kohli runs back and keeps it to two 7.4 U Yadav to Brendan Taylor , no run , back of a length on the stumps , Brendan Taylor defends to the right of the bowler 7.3 U Yadav to Brendan Taylor , no run , Brendan Taylor shuffles across to cover off and defends it back to Yadav 7.2 U Yadav to Brendan Taylor , 2 runs , on the pads , flicked to deep backward square leg , in the gap and two it is 7.1 U Yadav to Solomon Mire , 1 run , short and on the stumps , hurries onto Solomon Mire who mistimes the pull , into the short mid-wicket area , comfortable single taken 6.6 Shami to Brendan Taylor , no run , completely beaten was Brendan Taylor and Shami is exasperated. Pitched up and swinging away , Brendan Taylor was looking for the leg-side flick , the ball moves away past the edge 6.5 Shami to Brendan Taylor , no run , short of length on off , defended back to the bowler 6.4 Shami to Brendan Taylor , no run , Mahendra Singh Dhoni appeals for a caught behind and as do the slips. Brendan Taylor went after that wide delivery , very close to the bottom edge , but nothing on the bat. Snicko shows no movement. India rightly do n't take the review 6.3 Shami to Brendan Taylor , no run , pacy short delivery , Taylor arches back and looks to ramp it over the head of Dhoni , but fails to make contact 6.2 Shami to Brendan Taylor , no run , pitched up outside off , Taylor presses forward and blocks solidly to the right of Shami who fields 6.1 Shami to Brendan Taylor , no run , Shami plugs away outside off , left alone 5.6 U Yadav to Solomon Mire , no run , on the middle and leg line , on a back of a length , Solomon Mire gets an inside edge onto the thigh pad and the bowler runs forward to prevent any runs being taken. Maiden over from Yadav 5.5 U Yadav to Solomon Mire , no run , pitched up outside off , driven back to Yadav Three slips for Yadav 5.4 U Yadav to Solomon Mire , no run , angled in now , Solomon Mire gets forward to defend , but is hit on the thigh pad , looks for a quick leg bye , but Brendan Taylor is n't interested 5.3 U Yadav to Solomon Mire , no run , back of a length outside off , Solomon Mire punches it to cover 5.2 U Yadav to Solomon Mire , no run , Yadav adjusts his radar and brings it closer to off , still does n't make Solomon Mire play , good leave as the ball was close to off 5.1 U Yadav to Solomon Mire , no run , swing for Yadav , but starts well outside off , left alone The support for India in this World Cup has been overwhelming and Auckland 's no different. Our man , Jamie Alter , is at the ground and he reckons that the crowd is building up , although the Indian contingent would have loved to see their team bat first : 'Crowd building. Bollywood music helps get them on their feet. Still plenty of empty seats , but I suspect they will fill up. Many may have been waiting to see if India batted, ' he says . 4.6 Shami to Brendan Taylor , no run , nips back in and Brendan Taylor respects with a back foot defence No leg slip to Brendan Taylor , two slips in place 4.5 Shami to Brendan Taylor , no run , Brendan Taylor gets forward and then shoulders arms to a ball outside off 4.4 Shami to Brendan Taylor , no run , Brendan Taylor looks to play at that and then pulls his bat out of the ball 's line , Dhoni collects Brendan Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 4.3 Shami to Chibhabha , out Caught by Dhawan ! ! Very good catch by Dhawan at first slip. It was going to the second slip - which is vacant , but Dhawan moved swiftly to his right and he caught it with both hands. Chibhabha had looked ill at ease in his stay against Shami and goes , playing a back foot punch , which produces a thick edge. Good catching height and lovely viewing angle for Dhawan , made it comfortable for him. Chibhabha c Dhawan b Shami 7 ( 16 ) [ 4s-1 ] Shami to Chibhabha , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 4.2 Shami to Chibhabha , no run , dug in short , Chibhabha ducks and lets it go Now a leg slip in place 4.1 Shami to Chibhabha , no run , shuffles across and turns it to mid-on , but straight to the fielder 3.6 U Yadav to Solomon Mire , no run , a thick outside edge but it goes to ground quickly , Mire getting forward to defend and the edge does n't carry Three slips in place 3.5 U Yadav to Solomon Mire , no run , outswinger , Mire lets it go 3.5 U Yadav to Solomon Mire , no run 3.4 U Yadav to Solomon Mire , 2 runs , too straight and full on the stumps , clipped away to deep backward square leg Solomon Mire , right handed bat , comes to the crease 3.3 U Yadav to H Masakadza , out Caught by Dhoni ! ! Edged and taken. Pitched up and going away , just a tad , Masakadza went for the drive and could only get a thin edge back through to the keeper. Another failure for Masakadza , who has disappointed in this tournament. Yadav is all smiles and he has provided the early breakthrough. H Masakadza c Dhoni b U Yadav 2 ( 8 ) U Yadav to H Masakadza , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 3.2 U Yadav to H Masakadza , no run , Masakadza shuffles across a little and defends the length ball on the stumps back to the bowler 3.1 U Yadav to H Masakadza , no run , pitched up outside off , Masakadza drives and finds Yadav in his way 2.6 Shami to Chibhabha , no run , was close to a wide as Chibhabha threw his bat at that short and wide delivery outside off , he did n't make contact and Shami gets away 2.5 Shami to Chibhabha , no run , nips back in and catches Chibhabha high on the pad , thigh pad as Chibhabha is cramped for room and also is beaten for pace 2.4 Shami to Chibhabha , no run , another mistimed cut as Chibhabha finds Jadeja at point 2.3 Shami to Chibhabha , no run , loud shout for lbw , but Oxenford shakes his head. Full and angling in , Chibhabha flicks and misses , may have gone down leg. Replays show it was just clipping the outside of leg 2.2 Shami to Chibhabha , FOUR , inside edge and it runs away past the left of Dhoni , who is wrong-footed , Chibhabha going for the cut and chops it , luckily he gets a boundary 2.1 Shami to H Masakadza , 1 run , given as runs , so Masakadza must have got an inside edge onto the pads , on the flick , runs down to fine leg 1.6 U Yadav to Chibhabha , 2 runs , clipped to deep backward square leg , Chibhabha was coming back for the second and if there had been a good throw from Shami then he may have been struggling. Instead the throw is well wide of Dhoni and the batsmen make it easily 1.5 U Yadav to Chibhabha , no run , outswinger , Chibhabha shoulders arms 1.4 U Yadav to Chibhabha , no run , a shout for lbw first and then for a catch at gully for an inside edge onto the pads. Nothing given. Straight off the thigh pad as Chibhabha is beaten for pace , well caught by the forward diving Rahane at gully , but no bat involved 1.3 U Yadav to H Masakadza , 1 run , too straight and it 's been clipped away down to fine leg , for a single 1.2 U Yadav to H Masakadza , no run , Rohit Sharma stops it at cover-point and then dives to his left , exaggeration from him , as it was cut straight to him , Rohit dived to make it look a sensational stop , the crowd are fooled into thinking it was one and cheer loudly. Jadeja pats Rohit for that effort 1.1 U Yadav to H Masakadza , no run , Masakadza is half-forward and knocks the length ball to mid-off Umesh Yadav , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Shami to Chibhabha , no run , outswinger , from Shami and he beats Chibhabha all ends up , the ball moves away past the edge 0.6 Shami to Chibhabha , wide , way outside off as Shami finds some swing , Dhoni dives in front of first slip to glove the ball 0.5 Shami to Chibhabha , no run , now Chibhabha gets an inside edge onto the pads , the ball drops besides his feet 0.4 Shami to H Masakadza , leg byes , 1 run , looked like Masakadza did n't offer a shot as the ball nipped back in. But the umpire gives it as leg byes , down leg and it runs off the thigh pad 0.3 Shami to Chibhabha , 1 run , Chibhabha is off the mark , with a cut , mistimed as the extra bounce forces the chop. Chibhabha hurried for pace there as Shami found a bit of zip off the track 0.2 Shami to Chibhabha , no run , Chibhabha misses out on the cut. It was short and wide outside off , Chibhabha is beaten for pace and fails to connect on the shot 0.1 Shami to Chibhabha , no run , short of length and bounce for Shami , on the stumps , Chibhabha tucks it towards short mid-wicket Chibhabha and H Masakadza are at the crease. Chibhabha is on strike. Shami will open the attack The players are out there after the anthems. The Zimbabwean anthem is a beauty. So melodious. As is the Indian one. Loud cheer greets the end of the Indian anthem. Mohammed Shami has the ball in his hand. The countdown begins and we are all set to start off. Two slips in place for Shami as he runs in Pitch Report : " It 's a well rolled-in surface. It is one of those drop-in pitches which is hard. It 's going to be a good batting surface. Because of the short boundaries , even the mistimed shots from Dhoni , Kohli , Dhawan will go into the stands. There will be seam movement under lights. But overall , it is a good batting surface , " reckons Sourav Ganguly . Teams : Zimbabwe ( Playing XI ) : Chamu Chibhabha , Sikandar Raza , Hamilton Masakadza , Brendan Taylor ( w/c ) , Sean Williams , Craig Ervine , Solomon Mire , Regis Chakabva , Tinashe Panyangara , Tawanda Mupariwa , Tendai Chatara India ( Playing XI ) : Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , Suresh Raina , MS Dhoni ( w/c ) , Ravindra Jadeja , Ravichandran Ashwin , Mohit Sharma , Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav India have won the toss and have opted to field Dhoni : " When it comes to the matches you have to be at your best , you have to give your 100 % . When you have the opportunity in training you have to mellow it down a bit. That 's what we have been doing , but in games you have to give your 100 % . We are looking to bowl first. The wicket is good over here , it remains the same. Short boundaries gives us an opportunity to chase again. There has been a lot of improvement. If we compare how we have been playing compared to the tri-series , there has been loads of improvement in all the three departments. Fielding is something that we put in a lot of effort into and definitely this is one the best fielding sides that has been around. We are playing with the same squad. " Taylor : " It 's an incredible feeling. It 's quite an emotional day for me. But more importantly we are trying to win a game for Zimbabwe and trying to end the tournament on a good note. According to the track record here , it does probably pay to bat second , but it looks like a really good wicket , there might be a bit of bounce in it. We have n't posted the whole tournament , so it poses a new challenge and hopefully we can get a good score on these short boundaries. Against a side like India , you 've got to play with freedom. What we 've discussed with the guys is to go out there and enjoy this moment. Let 's be remembered that we finished the tournament pretty well. I 'd love to do that , but you ca n't guarantee it. I 'll certainly give it my best shot. I know the guys will come out and give it everything today. We 've got exactly the same ( side ) that we got against Ireland. " Toss time folks ! Dav Whatmore on Brendan Taylor : " It is true we will be missing Brendan Taylor who is be going to Nottingham and they are very , very lucky to have him. " Quotes now. Starting with Mohammed Shami. " I am lucky that all my debuts - Tests , one-dayers , Twenty20s - all have come under Dhoni and the way he handles things looks good to me. " Shami is all praise for MS Dhoni 's leadership skills . Weather update : It was a hot day when both teams trained on the eve of the game and more of it is likely to continue on match day. A high of 25C is predicted for the game . Zimbabwe : Elton Chigumbura still has n't recovered from a grade three tear to the quadriceps muscle in his left leg and looks highly unlikely for this match. So Brendan Taylor will captain in his last game for Zimbabwe. Zimbabwe may not risk playing a spinner on a small Eden Park ground , against a powerful Indian batting line-up . Pre-match team news , India : India will in all probability play the same eleven that won against Ireland . Zimbabwe 's last game was against Ireland and it was a thriller. They conceded more than 300 with the ball with Ed Joyce making a hundred. They looked to be on course in the chase with Brendan Taylor 's hundred leading the way. He along with Sean Williams had things under control before Taylor got out. That gave the Irish the opening and they capitalised. Sean Williams fell for 96 albeit in controversial circumstances , caught by John Mooney on the fence. Replays showed that Mooney may have touched the ad-cushions with his foot as he held on. That proved to be the turning point of the game as Ireland won by 5-runs despite Mupariwa 's late heroics. That defeat also knocked Zimbabwe out of the tournament . Now to revisit India and Zimbabwe 's previous games in this tournament. India played Ireland at Hamilton and achieved a feat for the first time in their ODI history. They bowled the Irish out , meaning that they had done so for the fifth time in a row - a first. The chase was very straightforward with Dhawan notching up his second ton of the tournament. India cantered home by eight wickets against a very average Ireland bowling attack . Also he reckons that Ashwin has been a revelation for India. " I think the reason is that all five bowlers have done exceptionally well. The big difference in R Ashwin , and I hope he transforms this improvement in Tests and Twenty20s , is the speed at which he has bowled. He 's bowled a lot slower. Sometimes , when you see here that he is bowling at 70 or 80kmph as opposed to 90 and higher during the Test matches , you know why he has been successful. Ashwin has been a huge revelation for India. " Moving on , let 's now focus on what all the talk is , before the game , Sourav Ganguly , writing exclusively on our site is amazed by India 's ability to lift themselves in World Championships. " It amazes me how India lift themselves in world championships. Take the 2011 World Cup , take the 2013 Champions Trophy or the T20 WC in Bangladesh last year and now this World Cup. Before and after that they have gone through series where they 've been whitewashed. They 've lost 4-0 in Test series , they went through a series of one-day losses overseas , so to turn it around from there has been a remarkable achievement. " India were left shell-shocked by the result. That defeat left the standings reading like this : Zimbabwe had played two , won two ; India played two , lost two. That loss to Zimbabwe eventually played a huge part in India not reaching the semi-finals of the tournament . A fifty from Sadagopan Ramesh and 43 from Ajay Jadeja set India on their way. They were heading to a win , needing just nine from two overs when Olonga was brought back into the attack by Alistair Campbell in a last throw of the dice. Olonga 's previous three overs had cost 17 , as he lost his run-up and bowled some spectacular wides and a beamer. Robin Singh was at the crease. But in a sensational over , Olonga got Robin caught at cover , then had Srinath bowled , slogging wildly before trapping Venky Prasad lbw off the next ball , to spark off wild celebrations amongst the Zimbabweans at Grace Road , Leicester . If Kapil Dev was the hero in 1983 , Zimbabwe found their own in the form of Henry Olonga in 1999. India were playing the game without Sachin Tendulkar , who had gone home to attend his father 's funeral. Without him , they lacked inspiration and were flat. Batting first Zimbabwe made 252 thanks largely in part to India 's genorosity. There were 21 wides and 16 no-balls as India gave away 51 extras. That meant they were docked four overs when they batted due to the slow over-rate. The target was 253 from 46 overs . Sunil Gavaskar reckoned that Kapil 's knock as the " best One-day innings " ever. " When you had lost half of your side with less than 20 runs on the board , obviously it was not looking good. But this gentleman ( Kapil Dev ) went out and played his innings...best innings I had seen in limited overs international. That 175 has to be in my view the greatest knock in the World Cup. " Wisden had this to say about the match : " A remarkable match contained one of the most spectacular innings played in this form of cricket. India , who had chosen to bat on a pitch from which the ball moved a lot , were 9 for four - soon to be 17 for five - when their captain , Kapil Dev , came in. No-one could foresee then that a week later India would be winning the whole tournament ; indeed , qualification for the semi-final was in grave doubt. " One interesting thing about the match which has become part of folklore since , is the fact that there was no televised coverage of the game and hence no footage available of Kapil 's innings. BBC , the official broadcaster of the tournament , was on a strike on this day . Speaking on the innings , Madan Lal said , " I also witnessed Viv Richards ' 189 against England ( in 1984 at Old Trafford ) . Thereafter , I have seen many exciting and crucial knocks , but given the rescue act that Kapil performed , it 's one of my all-time favourites. " This game had one of the all-time great ODI knocks from Kapil Dev. Needing a win to qualify through to the semi-final , India were reduced to 17 for five. Speaking on the match later , Madan Lal told Mid-Day , " Things were looking really bad for us when we were five down for 17 in a must-win game. The dressing room was stunned. " In walked Kapil and proceeded to hit 175 runs which included 16 fours and six huge hits over the boundary. Kapil 's innings pushed India to 266 and they eventually won by 31 runs . So on that emotional note , we welcome one and all to our coverage of India 's clash with Zimbabwe at Eden Park in Auckland. While India are on a five game unbeaten run in the World Cup , Zimbabwe have already been knocked out. Before we go any further , let 's have a look at two past memorable clashes between these two teams in World Cups. Starting with the game in 1983 . When asked what the last 11 years meant to him , while playing for Zimbabwe , Taylor got a bit emotional , but recovered to say this : " It 's been fairly enjoyable , the 11 years that I 've been extremely grateful for. Every player 's dream is to represent their country , and I 've been lucky enough to do that , " he said. " We 've had our challenges as young players coming into the side. We 've had some tough losses , but we 've slowly evolved and managed to sneak a few great ones in for us. It 's been thoroughly enjoyable. But you know , a very proud moment for me. Sad for me that it 'll be ending , but I 'm very proud to be a Zimbabwean , I 'm very proud to represent my country on a great stage tomorrow to finish up and hopefully end on a high note. " " I 'm not too worried about maybe leaving a hole there. I certainly do n't think that 's the case. I think the players are definitely good enough to fill that No 4 spot in Test cricket and one-dayers. " " I think there 's enough depth there at the moment. We 've certainly got some experienced players , we 've got some young and talented players coming through , " said Taylor . Taylor may be leaving Zimbabwe , but he hopes he wo n't be missed by his country. Taylor believes Zimbabwe have enough talent at the higher level to ensure a seamless transition from his era . It is yet another blow for Zimbabwe. In 2013 , Zimbabwe fast bowler Kyle Jarvis retired from international cricket to pursue a career in county cricket and Twenty20. Before him , Anthony Ireland bowed out at 22 on a two-year deal with Gloucestershire , citing the political stranglehold of Zimbabwe 's cricket administration as the reason for shunning his country. In May 2004 , allrounder Sean Ervine quit international cricket at the age of 21 and left the country to go to Australia , amid the deepening crisis in Zimbabwe cricket . Why did Taylor decide to quit Zimbabwe ? Because of the financial instability that the current Zimbabwean cricketers find themselves in. Taylor - the highest paid of his team-mates - decided to sign a Kolpak deal to secure his future. The current World Cup squad has still not received all their dues for past series , and their monthly salaries are estimated to be US $ 6,000. Taylor is reportedly paid US $ 10,000 . " We have found ourselves with two batsmen injured and face the potential loss of players to international commitments , " said Newell. " We have decided to strengthen our batting order with Brendan , a proven player who will be an excellent addition to the side. " Nottinghamshire 's Director of Cricket Mick Newell expressed his delight at having acquired the services of Taylor. The club also revealed that 'specific arrangements ' would be discussed with the player after the World Cup . 12 : 30 Local Time , 23 : 30 GMT , 05 : 00 IST : Do it for Brendan Taylor. Do it for BT. Do it for him , Zimbabwe. After 23 Tests , 166 ODIs and 25 T20Is , Brendan Taylor has bid goodbye to Zimbabwean cricket. With over 5000 runs in the ODI format , Brendan Taylor was and is , Zimbabwe 's best batsman. Brendan Taylor has signed a Kolpak agreement with County side Nottinghamshire. Speaking about the development , Taylor told reporters at Eden Park : " It 's been one of the toughest decisions of my career. I have been very passionate about playing for Zimbabwe , but it 's a decision I had to make. I ca n't give you that answer ( whether I would like to settle down there ) because it 's the first time I am going there. I just want to go there and play some good competitive cricket and provide for my family. That 's the main thing behind it I will see how it goes the first year and then take a call. " Preview by Jamie Alter The final 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup group stage match for India and Zimbabwe at Eden Park on Saturday has been given added incentive for one of the teams : it will be Brendan Taylor 's last international assignment before he leaves Zimbabwe on a three-year Kolpak deal with English county Nottinghamshire. Zimbabwe have not managed to make the quarter-finals , and so should be driven to give their outgoing star and former captain a fitting farewell against the defending champions . It will , of course , not be easy. India have not lost a match in this tournament , and have ticked many boxes in doing so. Wins by 76 runs , 130 runs , nine wickets , four wickets and eight wickets have carried MS Dhoni 's team into the knockouts on a wave of confidence and credibility - they had been beaten hollow in the preceding tri-series in Australia - and they will be eager to iron out any remaining creases before their quarter-final fixture . India 's pace bowlers enjoyed the extra bounce in Australia when they played Pakistan , South Africa , UAE and West Indies , but in Hamilton their trio of pace bowlers struggled early on as Ireland 's openers put on the best start against India in the tournament. On that flat deck it was spin that pulled Ireland back , with R Ashwin , Suresh Raina and Ravindra Jadeja keeping things tidy. At Eden Park there should be more lift , as evidenced by the last game here between Pakistan and South Africa , which would make Dhoni 's job a bit easier. Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav and Mohit Sharma have performed credibly when paired with each other , and if this track has carry similar to what India found in Australia , they will be hard to handle. The bounce will also bring Ashwin into play , asking questions of a Zimbabwean batting order that , with the exception of Taylor ( 295 runs ) and Sean Williams ( 289 ) has underwhelmed . The opener Sikandar Raza averages 19.40 in five innings without a fifty ; Craig Ervine in the middle order has one fifty for an average of 26.40 ; the veteran Hamilton Masakadza , in his first World Cup , averages 24 ; Chamu Chibhabha has one fifty in three innings ; the much-talked of Solomon Mire , who learnt most of his cricket in Australia , has a best of 27 in four innings. Tackling India 's in-form bowling will require more than two batsmen shoring up the innings . Taylor , who will bow out after playing his 167th ODI , spoke of the challenge that India 's bowlers will pose in the midst of a successful run. " We all know how such a power house they are at batting , but they certainly hold their own with the ball. They 've had proven performances with their spinners , and we see how well they 've done for India over the years , and even in conditions that are not so suited so them , they 've still been very difficult to get away , " he said. " Even the new-ball bowlers have struck early , where they possibly have n't done that in the past , and they 're bowling with some good pace , too. That 's certainly good for Indian cricket , and it 'll be very challenging for us tomorrow , not just the pace but the swing they 're producing at the moment. " Zimbabwe 's captain at the World Cup , Elton Chigumbura , missed the last game against Ireland because of a grade three tear to the quadriceps muscle in his left leg and looks highly unlikely for this match. On Thursday , Chigumbura did not train hard with the team and was seen walking around Eden Park with the physiotherapist , and with Taylor coming to address the media in the customary pre-match press conference , all indications are that Chigumbura is not match ready . India went through their paces at the practice ground adjacent to Eden Park on Friday , giving little indication of any changes to a winning unit. Dhoni is not generally a man to tinker needlessly , so it seems the likes of Stuart Binny , Ambati Rayudu and Axar Patel will continue to serve drinks . Saturday looks like a hot day in Auckland , on a surface with plenty of runs in it . Teams : Zimbabwe ( From ) : Chamu Chibhabha , Sikandar Raza , Hamilton Masakadza , Brendan Taylor ( c & k ) , Sean Williams , Craig Ervine , Solomon Mire , Regis Chakabva , Tinashe Panyangara , Tawanda Mupariwa , Tendai Chatara , Tafadzwa Kamungozi , Prosper Utseya , Stuart Matsikenyeri India ( From ) : Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , Suresh Raina , MS Dhoni ( c & k ) , Ravindra Jadeja , Ravichandran Ashwin , Mohit Sharma , Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav , Ambati Rayudu , Axar Patel , Stuart Binny , Bhuvneshwar Kumar Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
