Graphs Folks , that brings us to the end of our coverage from this game. Hope you enjoyed it. However , you can switch tabs to follow the crucial encounter between Pakistan and Ireland. On behalf of Krishna , Sriram , Bharat and my co-commentators , Ramki and Srivathsa , this is Sidhant Maheshwari , signing off. Ciao ! Let 's take a look at some of the interesting tweets from this game : @ rgcricket : Whoever wins or loses in # PAKvsIRE game,it wo n't affect West Indies as they are in to the Quarters ( unless Pak-Ire match is NR/Tied ) . @ Alexisenunes : Well that got slightly painful to watch but I 'm happy with the victory. Now to play the waiting game . @ Myukhl : Can anyone remember a West Indian fast bowler swinging the ball more than Taylor is ? They have never really produced great swing bowlers @ westindies : # WIvUAE With that win West Indies will be paying close attention to the final group stage & Pool B encounter looking to the quarter finals . Jason Holder : 'The ball came out really well for me at the start. I got a bit of swing and the ball bounced a bit for me , putting the ball in the right areas was also important for taking wickets. Fortunately , today we got some wickets. It was a little slowish , but it was good for me as I got some movement and that 's the key. I am lucky enough as I was able to set it up. Extremely pleased with the way the guys came out today and played. Obviously , it was a must-win game for us and we had to win with a certain margin. So , credit to the guys for the way they played. Hopefully , we can go further than quarter-finals. We had to show the intent and we were looking to finish the game before 36 overs , which was a key for our run-rate. We just had to make some decisions. Unfortunately today , Russ ( Andre Russell ) did n't come off. It 's a big test , they are obviously playing some very good cricket. But , it is going to be difficult , but hopefully they will lose to us in the quarter-finals ( on playing New Zealand ) .' Jason Holder is the Man of the Match for his figures of 4/27 Tauqir : 'I think when they put us to bat , they took good advantage of the bowling conditions early on. We were 46/6 and it was difficult to recover , but still it was a good effort by Amjad Javed and Nasir Aziz , they batted well. Amjad Javed has been very consistent for us throughout the tournament , with the bat and the ball. These are the positives for us from this tournament. We have our T20 WC qualifying ahead of us in July and we 'll be focussing on that. It was a decent performance from us in this tournament. We would like to learn from our mistakes. It was a good learning experience for us during this tournament and we want to do well in the future tournaments. It was a very enjoyable experience for us but a lot of travelling and cleaning the shoes for us ( on New Zealand 's stringent policy of having clean shoes when one comes to their country ) .' The West Indies had a roller-coaster ride in the Group stages of the World Cup and need to improve in all departments of the game , if they qualify for the quarter-finals. For UAE , the World Cup is a good learning experience. Interestingly , Pakistan are taking on Ireland in another Group B game in Adelaide and that is a do-or-die match for both those teams. If that match is abandoned or ends in a tie , West Indies will still be knocked out of the tournament . However , Amjad and Nasir Aziz played with self-belief and determination to score fifties and take UAE to a score of some respectability. Both Amjad and Aziz had their fair share of luck , but the credit has to go to them for putting up a fine show. The West Indies camp perhaps wo n't be happy with the fact that their support bowlers could n't follow up the efforts of Holder and Taylor by bowling incisively after UAE were in dire straits at 46 for 6 . Earlier , the West Indies pace duo of Jerome Taylor and Jason Holder bowled superb spells with the new ball to rip through the UAE batting line-up. Holder extracted pace and disconcerting bounce and more importantly , consistently hit a good length spot to trouble the batsmen. He bowled an unchanged spell of 10 overs and took four wickets. On the other hand , Taylor generated prodigious swing to snare three wickets. In particular , he bowled a peach of a delivery that swung late and shattered the stumps of Khurram Khan. He also sent UAE 's best batsman of the tournament , Shaiman Anwar , back to the pavilion for just two . Charles was dismissed after he cracked a quick-fire fifty by Ajmad Javed , but by then , the damage was already done. Remember , there was a chance of Cyclone Pam hitting Napier later on in the match , so the West Indies did well to chase down the target rather quickly. For UAE , Amjad put up a fine all-round performance. He composed a well-constructed fifty and took two wickets as well . Johnson Charles ' thunderous fifty helped the West Indies to overhaul the target in less than 36.2 overs and close in on a quarter-final berth. On a flat deck , the Windies batsmen looked to play aggressively and despite losing the wickets of Dwayne Smith and Marlon Samuels early on in the innings , Charles and Jonathan Carter produced a fine exhibition of stroke-play to put the West Indies in a position of strength. Both the batsmen played powerful shots square of the wicket on either side to keep the scoreboard moving . 30.3 Manjula Guruge to Ramdin , 1 run , fullish delivery on middle stump line , Ramdin heaves it over mid-wicket and that 's enough for the win. West indies take 2 points from this game and have one foot in the quarter-finals now. They will now wait for the result from the Ireland-Pakistan game 30.2 Manjula Guruge to Ramdin , no run , back of a length delivery well outside off , Ramdin knocks it to cover Scores are level now 30.1 Manjula Guruge to Ramdin , 2 runs , on the pads this time , Ramdin tucks it away behind square and gets back for the second easily West Indies need 3 more runs to win 29.6 Amjad Javed to Ramdin , 1 run , low full toss outside off , Ramdin drives it to sweeper cover , he will keep the strike 29.5 Amjad Javed to Ramdin , no run , fuller in length and on off and middle , Ramdin shuffles across and drives uppishly towards mid-on , the ball goes on the bounce to the fielder 29.4 Amjad Javed to Ramdin , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Ramdin goes on the back foot , opens the face of the bat and steers it towards backward point 29.3 Amjad Javed to J Carter , 1 run , stays back inside the crease and dabs this length delivery outside off to square third man , the single brings up the maiden ODI fifty for Carter 29.2 Amjad Javed to J Carter , no run , overpitching outside off , Carter tries to squeeze it out into the off-side , but ca n't connect. The ball goes through to the keeper and UAE were appealing as there was a sound there , but it was the bat hitting the ground 29.1 Amjad Javed to J Carter , no run , length delivery around off , Carter leans forward and pushes it back to the bowler 28.6 Manjula Guruge to J Carter , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Carter waits for it inside the crease , opens the face of the bat and dabs it towards third man for a single 28.5 Manjula Guruge to Ramdin , leg byes , 1 run , angling down leg , Ramdin fails to nurdle it into the on-side , the ball rolls away off the thigh pad behind square , the batsmen sneak in a leg bye 28.4 Manjula Guruge to Ramdin , no run , length delivery on middle , Ramdin pushes it to the right of the bowler 28.3 Manjula Guruge to Ramdin , 2 runs , length delivery on off and middle , Ramdin goes across and tucks it away past square leg , good running ensures that the batsmen come back for the second , this also brings up the 50-run partnership between these two 28.2 Manjula Guruge to Ramdin , no run , fuller in length and just outside off , Ramdin drives it to cover 28.1 Manjula Guruge to Ramdin , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Ramdin defends it into the off-side Manjula Guruge [ 6.0-1-34-2 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Amjad Javed to Ramdin , 1 run , short and at the batsman , Ramdin pulls it to fine leg and he will keep the strike 27.6 Amjad Javed to Ramdin , wide , banged in short and well outside off , Ramdin leaves it alone , the ball was way too high and the umpire calls it a wide 27.5 Amjad Javed to J Carter , 1 run , fuller in length and well outside off , Carter drives it to deep extra cover 27.4 Amjad Javed to Ramdin , 1 run , drifting on the pads once again , Ramdin tucks it away to fine leg and gets off strike 27.3 Amjad Javed to Ramdin , FOUR , straying on the pads , Ramdin goes across and clips it behind square on the on-side , the ball runs away to the fence 27.2 Amjad Javed to Ramdin , no run , full and outside off , Ramdin drills the drive to cover 27.1 Amjad Javed to Ramdin , 2 runs , a direct-hit would have been curtains for Ramdin , it was a back of a length delivery outside off , Ramdin dabs it down towards third man and comes back for the second , Haider runs to his right in the deep , picks the ball up and fires in the throw at the striker 's end , Ramdin was coming for the second and if Haider 's throw had hit the stumps directly , Ramdin would have been a goner. In fact , had the keeper collected it as well and whipped the bails off , Ramdin would have been out. UAE miss out on a good chance . 26.6 Naveed to J Carter , no run , short delivery at the batsman , Carter mistimes the pull to mid-on 26.5 Naveed to Ramdin , 1 run , back of a length delivery angling in on middle , Ramdin tucks it away past square leg for a single 26.4 Naveed to Ramdin , 2 runs , back of a length delivery slightly wide outside off , Ramdin dabs it towards squarish third man region , the batsmen take two as the fielder at third man was a little finer 26.3 Naveed to Ramdin , no run , fuller in length and outside off , Ramdin drives it to mid-off 26.2 Naveed to Ramdin , no run , length delivery just outside off , Ramdin leans forward and defends it back to the bowler 26.1 Naveed to Ramdin , no run , bowls this one well outside off and it was shortish in length as well , Ramdin cuts but picks out backward point Mohammad Naveed [ 5.0-0-31-0 ] is back into the attack 25.6 Amjad Javed to J Carter , no run , length delivery just outside off , Carter looks to run it down to third man , the ball beats the outside edge 25.5 Amjad Javed to Ramdin , 1 run , yorker outside off , Ramdin squeezes it out to square leg for a single 25.4 Amjad Javed to J Carter , 1 run , width on offer , Carter cuts it to the right of backward point , who dives to his right and makes a half-stop , saves some runs for his team there , but ca n't prevent the single 25.3 Amjad Javed to J Carter , no run , fuller in length and well outside off , Carter drives it straight to cover 25.2 Amjad Javed to J Carter , no run , touch fuller and well outside off , Carter shoulders arms 25.1 Amjad Javed to J Carter , no run , back of a length delivery angling in from round the wicket angle , Carter goes across and pushes it to mid-on 24.6 Aziz to J Carter , 1 run , low full toss on leg , Carter helps it down to long-on and he will keep the strike 24.5 Aziz to J Carter , no run , flighted delivery around off , Carter defends off the front foot 24.4 Aziz to Ramdin , 1 run , tossed up on middle and leg , Ramdin clips it to deep mid-wicket for a single 24.3 Aziz to J Carter , 3 runs , drifting on the pads , Carter punches it wide of long-on , both the batsmen put more pressure on the fielder , who was charging towards the ball. The batsmen take three in the end as the fielder misfielded 24.2 Aziz to J Carter , FOUR , nice shot from Carter , it was flighted well outside off , Carter goes after it and lofts it over extra cover , the ball runs away to the fence 24.1 Aziz to J Carter , no run , flatter and just outside off , Carter backs away and cuts hard , but picks out backward point 23.6 Amjad Javed to J Carter , 1 run , on the pads this time , Carter works it through mid-wicket and he will keep the strike 23.5 Amjad Javed to J Carter , no run , touch fuller and just outside off , Carter punch-drives it straight to cover , Carter was unhappy with himself there as the ball deserved to be put away to the fence , it was timed very well though 23.5 Amjad Javed to J Carter , wide , bumper from Javed , Carter ducks under it. The umpire calls it a wide as it was way too high 23.4 Amjad Javed to Ramdin , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Ramdin pushes at it , gets an inside edge onto the pad and the ball rolls away to his right , the batsmen hare across for a quick single 23.3 Amjad Javed to Ramdin , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Ramdin defends it to the right of the bowler 23.2 Amjad Javed to Ramdin , no run , back of a length delivery from Javed , Ramdin hangs back and defends it into the on-side 23.1 Amjad Javed to Ramdin , no run , length delivery down the leg-side , Ramdin was looking to work it through the on-side , but fails to connect , the ball clips the thigh pad and goes towards the keeper , who dives to his left and collects 22.6 Aziz to Ramdin , 1 run , tossed up on middle and leg , Ramdin shuffles across and works it to deep mid-wicket , he will keep the strike 22.5 Aziz to Ramdin , no run , drifting on middle , Ramdin goes across and turns it to mid-wicket 22.4 Aziz to J Carter , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Carter goes back and punches it past mid-wicket and the batsmen take another run 22.3 Aziz to Ramdin , 1 run , flighted delivery just outside off , Ramdin pushes it to the right of cover-point and the batsmen take an easy single 22.2 Aziz to Ramdin , no run , quicker and around off , Ramdin drives it back to the bowler 22.1 Aziz to J Carter , 1 run , flighted delivery outside off , Carter drives it towards cover , where captain Tauqir misfields and allows the batsmen to change ends 21.6 Amjad Javed to Ramdin , no run , length delivery down the leg-side , Ramdin looks to tuck it away into the on-side , but fails to make contact. The ball clips the pad and goes towards the keeper , who dives to his left and collects it. There was a loud appeal from the UAE players , but there was no bat on that 21.5 Amjad Javed to Ramdin , no run , on a length and on off , Ramdin drives it to mid-on off the inside half fo the bat 21.4 Amjad Javed to J Carter , 1 run , just short of a good length delivery angling away outside off , Carter hangs back and punches it hard , picks out sweeper cover 21.3 Amjad Javed to Ramdin , 1 run , full and down leg , Ramdin clips it behind square on the on-side and was looking for the second run there , but the fielder in the deep was quick to run forward and stop the ball 21.2 Amjad Javed to Ramdin , FOUR , lovely shot from Ramdin ! It was a back of a length delivery well wide outside off , Ramdin gets on top of the bounce and cuts it past a diving backward point and the ball runs away to the fence in no time 21.1 Amjad Javed to Ramdin , no run , yorker on off , Ramdin squeezes it out to mid-on 20.6 Aziz to J Carter , no run , slider from Aziz , Carter was waiting for the ball to turn and was looking to run it down to third man , he misses and the ball goes through to the keeper , it was just inches away from the off stump there 20.5 Aziz to Ramdin , 1 run , in the blockhole outside off , Ramdin jams out the drive to long-on 20.4 Aziz to Ramdin , no run , slower through the air and just outside off , Ramdin lunges forward in defence 20.3 Aziz to Ramdin , no run , tossed up just outside off , Ramdin drives it back to the bowler 20.2 Aziz to Ramdin , no run , flighted delivery on off , Ramdin defends off the front foot 20.1 Aziz to Ramdin , 2 runs , turning in on off and middle , Ramdin clips it towards mid-wicket , who moves across to his right , but fumbles , allowing an extra run 19.6 Amjad Javed to Ramdin , 1 run , goes across to this length delivery and mistimes the clip towards mid-on and sets off , the fielder has a shy at the non-striker 's end , gets a direct hit and but the batsman was well in 19.5 Amjad Javed to J Carter , 1 run , length delivery just outside off , Carter hangs back , opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man 19.4 Amjad Javed to J Carter , no run , back of a length delivery angled across off , Carter looks to tuck it away into the on-side , but closes the bat face early , the leading edge pops up to the right of the bowler and rolls away to mid-off 19.3 Amjad Javed to J Carter , no run , slightly back of a length and on middle , Carter goes across and defends it into the leg-side 19.2 Amjad Javed to J Carter , no run , good delivery from Javed , it was on a good length and shapes away just a little as Carter was pushing at it , the ball beats the outside edge and goes through to the keeper 19.1 Amjad Javed to J Carter , no run , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Carter wrists it to the left of the bowler 18.6 Aziz to Ramdin , no run , tossed up on middle , Ramdin wrists it into the on-side and picks out mid-wicket 18.5 Aziz to Ramdin , no run , pushed through on off , Ramdin bunts it to the right of the bowler , who runs across and fields it 18.4 Aziz to Ramdin , no run , flighted delivery on off and middle , Ramdin was looking to work it through the on-side , closes the bat face a little too early and the soft leading edge rolls away back towards the bowler 18.3 Aziz to Ramdin , no run , slower and around off , Ramdin pushes it to the right of the bowler , who moves across and stops it 18.2 Aziz to J Carter , 1 run , eases this down to long-off and gets off strike 18.1 Aziz to J Carter , FOUR , floated up outside off , Carter leans forward and drives it to the deep extra cover fence , the timing was good enough to beat the sweeper cover fielder , who was running to his left Nasir Aziz [ 2.0-0-26-0 ] is back into the attack 17.6 Amjad Javed to Ramdin , no run , fuller and on middle , Ramdin moves across and clips it straight to mid-wicket 17.5 Amjad Javed to Ramdin , no run , length delivery just outside off , Ramdin pushes it to mid-on 17.4 Amjad Javed to Ramdin , no run , goes across to this length delivery on off and middle , Ramdin works it towards mid-wicket , who dives to his left and stops the ball 17.3 Amjad Javed to Ramdin , 2 runs , angling in on off and middle , Ramdin works it behind square on the on-side off the inside half of the bat , good running ensures that the batsmen come back for the second Denesh Ramdin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 17.2 Amjad Javed to A Russell , out Caught&Bowled ! ! Ohh dear ! Russell is gone as well. It was short and on off stump , Russell went for the pull but ends up getting a top-edge , the bowler moves to his left , gets under it and takes a good catch. 2 wickets in 2 overs for Javed. A Russell c and b Amjad Javed 7 ( 8 ) [ 6s-1 ] Amjad Javed to A Russell , THATS OUT ! ! Caught&Bowled ! ! 17.1 Amjad Javed to A Russell , no run , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Russell gets behind the line and defends 16.6 M Tauqir to A Russell , 1 run , quicker and flatter around off , Russell punches it to long-off and he will keep the strike 16.5 M Tauqir to A Russell , no run , drifting on the pads , Russell works it towards short fine leg 16.4 M Tauqir to A Russell , SIX , that 's a super shot from Russell , it was floated up on middle , Russell heaves it over the deep mid-wicket fence and that went a mile there 16.3 M Tauqir to A Russell , no run , flatter from Tauqir , Russell punches it towards mid-wicket 16.2 M Tauqir to A Russell , no run , slower through the air this time , Russell defends 16.1 M Tauqir to A Russell , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Russell defends off the front foot Batting powerplay yielded 31/1 for the West Indies 15.6 Amjad Javed to J Carter , 2 runs , banged in short and outside off , Carter pulls it over mid-wicket , but the ball plugs in the outfield , the batsmen take two before the fielder in the deep runs across to his right and fields the ball 15.5 Amjad Javed to J Carter , no run , and again ! It was fuller and just outside off , Carter looks to drive , the ball shapes away a touch and beats the outside edge once again 15.4 Amjad Javed to J Carter , no run , length delivery outside off , Carter has a poke at it , the ball goes past the outside edge 15.3 Amjad Javed to J Carter , no run , short and well wide outside off , Carter mistimes the pull to mid-on Andre Russell , right handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now. West Indies are in a hurry to chase this down , but Charles wicket just before the drinks break will peg them back a little. With rain expected later , it is important that the team from the Caribbean do n't take the foot off the accelerator. Let 's see how they go after the drinks break 15.2 Amjad Javed to Charles , out Caught by Karate ! ! Javed picks up a wicket off his second ball and Charles goes after a good fifty. It was a back of a length delivery well outside off , Charles went for the flat-batted loft over mid-off , ends up getting a top edge which goes high in the air , the fielder from mid-on runs across to his left and takes a good catch as it was swirling. Charles c Karate b Amjad Javed 55 ( 40 ) [ 4s-9 6s-2 ] Amjad Javed to Charles , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 15.1 Amjad Javed to Charles , no run , bowls this one slightly wide outside off , Charles leaves it alone Amjad Javed , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 14.6 M Tauqir to J Carter , no run , goes deep in the crease and punches it to mid-wicket 14.5 M Tauqir to J Carter , leg byes , 2 runs , flatter and quicker , Carter was waiting for the ball to turn there , but it came back with the angle , he was caught in the crease and the ball flicks the pad before it rolls behind the track , there was a loud appeal and it was very close , but since the onfield decision was 'Not Out ' , it stays that way and the batsmen sneak in two leg byes , UAE lose their review even though the ball was crashing into the stumps UAE have decided to review an lbw decision. Carter is the man in question here. There is no bat there , but the impact is umpire 's call and the onfield decision will stay , which is 'Not Out' 14.4 M Tauqir to J Carter , FOUR , beautiful cover drive from Carter , it was tossed up outside off , Carter leans into the drive and caresses it to the deep extra cover fence 14.3 M Tauqir to Charles , 1 run , stays back to this flatter delivery and dabs it towards point , the batsmen take a quick single and that is the 50-run stand as well 14.2 M Tauqir to Charles , no run , darted on leg , Charles clips it towards short fine off the inside half of the bat , Charles was looking for the single there but Cafter sends him back 14.1 M Tauqir to J Carter , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle and leg , Carter wrists it towards mid-on for a single 13.6 Manjula Guruge to Charles , FOUR , poor ball from Guruge ! It was short and wide outside off , Charles cuts it and gets it to the left of backward point , who had no chance of chasing it down , 100 up for West Indies as well 13.5 Manjula Guruge to Charles , no run , fuller and on middle , Charles drives it to mid-on off the inside half of the bat 13.4 Manjula Guruge to Charles , 2 runs , 3rd ODI fifty for Charles and what a return it has been for him , it was short of length and well outside off , Charles slaps it wide of long-off and gets back for the second 13.3 Manjula Guruge to Charles , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Charles punches it back to the bowler , it was the slower ball from Guruge and that 's why he could n't time it that well 13.2 Manjula Guruge to Charles , no run , on a length and on off , Charles pushes it back to the bowler from inside the crease 13.1 Manjula Guruge to J Carter , 1 run , good shot but only for a single , it was well wide outside off , Carter frees his arms and cuts it to the sweeper cover fence , the ball races away to the fielder 12.6 M Tauqir to Charles , no run , flighted delivery and turning in on middle , Charles goes across and works it towards mid-wicket , who moves to his left to field the ball 12.5 M Tauqir to J Carter , 1 run , full and outside off , Carter drives it back to the bowler , who misfields and allows the batsmen an easy single in the end 12.4 M Tauqir to J Carter , FOUR , beautiful shot ! Back-to-back boundaries for Carter as he drills this tossed up delivery on middle stump through the covers , the timing on that was just superb 12.3 M Tauqir to J Carter , FOUR , drifting on leg , Carter kneels down and sweeps it fine , beats the dive of the short fine leg fielder who had dived across to his left , the ball runs away to the fence 12.2 M Tauqir to J Carter , no run , floated up outside off and turning away , Carter leans forward and defends 12.1 M Tauqir to J Carter , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Carter goes for the front foot drive , drags it to mid-wicket off the inside edge Mohammad Tauqir , comes into the attack UAE 's captain Tauqir comes into the attack 11.6 Manjula Guruge to J Carter , 1 run , short of length delivery on top of off , Carter hangs back inside the crease , opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man , he will keep the strike 11.5 Manjula Guruge to J Carter , no run , fuller and around off , Carter leans forward , opens the face of the bat and pushes it towards point 11.4 Manjula Guruge to Charles , 1 run , fuller and on off , Charles drives it off the inside half of the bat to long-on and gets off strike 11.3 Manjula Guruge to Charles , 2 runs , backs away to this slightly back of a length delivery around off , Charles flat-bats the slap and gets it over the infield , but he did n't time it that well and the ball plugs in the outfield , Charles slipped too while going back for the second , but manages to complete it in time easily in the end 11.2 Manjula Guruge to Charles , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Charles punches it to extra cover 11.1 Manjula Guruge to J Carter , 1 run , fuller in length and outside off , Carter leans forward and pushes at it , the ball takes the outside edge and rolls away to third man West Indies have opted for the batting powerplay. This is the earliest the batting powerplay has been taken by a team 10.6 Naveed to Charles , FOUR , what timing ! It was just short of a good length delivery angled across off , Charles gets behind it , opens the face of the bat and pushes it in the gap between cover-point and cover , the fielders give chase but the timing takes it away to the fence 10.5 Naveed to Charles , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Charles stands tall and punches it to mid-off 10.4 Naveed to Charles , FOUR , great shot from Charles , it was slightly fuller and outside off , Charles drives it to the right of cover , who dives to his right but ca n't get a hand on it , the ball runs away to the fence in no time 10.3 Naveed to Charles , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Charles mistimes the cut into the off-side 10.2 Naveed to J Carter , 1 run , banged in short once again , Carter pulls it towards deep mid-wicket , where the fielder runs across to his right , dives and stops the ball. Poor running from the West Indian batsmen as they only took a run from it , should have at least been two if not three 10.1 Naveed to J Carter , 2 runs , short delivery at the batsman , Carter plays a controlled pull in front of square on the on-side , the batsmen take two before the fielder from deep square leg runs across to his left and stops the ball 9.6 Manjula Guruge to Charles , no run , short of length delivery angled across off , Charles knocks it to cover 9.5 Manjula Guruge to Charles , no run , slower one from Guruge , Charles pushes it to the left of the bowler , who ca n't stop in his followthrough , the ball goes past the stumps at the non-striker 's end and the mid-off fielder gets around and stops it 9.4 Manjula Guruge to Charles , FOUR , back of a length delivery angling away outside off , Charles stays back and cuts it to the sweeper cover fence The keeper is up to the stumps 9.3 Manjula Guruge to J Carter , 1 run , shortish and slightly wide outside off , Carter cuts uppishly and gets it over the fielder at gully , who leapt high to try and catch it , but the ball was well over him 9.2 Manjula Guruge to J Carter , no run , angling in on off , Carter defends it to the left of the bowler 9.1 Manjula Guruge to J Carter , 2 runs , in the air and safe ! It was the off speed delivery on off , Carter goes across and looks to go over mid-on , the bat turns in his hand and he ends up mistiming it completely. Luckily , he just about manages to clear the leap of the mid-on fielder who was running back , the batsmen take two 8.6 Naveed to J Carter , 3 runs , just short of a good length and outside off , Carter leans forward and punches it through the covers , the fielder from cover gives chase and saves a run for his team 8.5 Naveed to J Carter , no run , short of length delivery on off , Carter gets behind the line and defends with a straight bat 8.4 Naveed to J Carter , no run , goes across and looks to push at this back of a length delivery angled across off , gets beaten 8.3 Naveed to J Carter , no run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Carter stands back and defends 8.2 Naveed to J Carter , no run , fullish delivery on off , Carter leans forward , opens the face of the bat and drives it to point 8.2 Naveed to J Carter , wide , down the leg-side this time , easy call for the umpire 8.1 Naveed to J Carter , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Carter punches it towards cover , who jumps up and collects the ball , that was timed very sweetly 7.6 Manjula Guruge to Charles , FOUR , overpitched outside off , Charles leans into the drive and sends it to the right of mid-off , the ball rolls away to the keeper , who has a shy at the non-striker 's end , it hits the stumps and ricochets towards the mid-wicket region , allowing the batsmen to cross over 7.5 Manjula Guruge to J Carter , leg byes , 1 run , unnecessary overthrow from UAE allows Carter to get off strike , it was angling in on leg , Carter fails to clip it into the on-side and the ball rolls away back towards the bowler Jonathan Carter , left handed bat , comes to the crease 7.4 Manjula Guruge to Samuels , out Caught by Andri Berenger ! ! Samuels hits one straight to point. It is a lucky break for UAE. It was short and slightly wide outside off , Samuels stays back and flashes hard , he cuts it uppishly and straight to point , where Berenger pouches it comfortably. Guruge picks up his second wicket. Samuels c Andri Berenger b Manjula Guruge 9 ( 18 ) [ 4s-1 ] Manjula Guruge to Samuels , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 7.3 Manjula Guruge to Samuels , no run , back of a length delivery on the pads , Samuels fails to tuck it away into the on-side , but fails to make a connection. The ball rolls away into the off-side off the pad 7.2 Manjula Guruge to Samuels , no run , angling away outside off , Samuels shoulders arms this time around 7.1 Manjula Guruge to Samuels , FOUR , that 's the Samuels we know ! It was a half volley outside off , Samuels leans forward , presents the full face of the bat and drives it straight down the ground , the ball runs away to the fence in no time 6.6 Naveed to Samuels , 3 runs , fuller in length and around off , Samuels looks to drive , the ball squirts off the outside half of the bat and rolls away towards the sweeper cover fence , Berenger from backward point makes a mess of it at first as he was trying to dive and stop the ball and his leg got stuck in the turf , but he recovered well to get up quickly and save a run for his team 6.5 Naveed to Samuels , no run , in the channel outside off , Samuels drops his wrists and pushes it in front of point , he was looking for the single there , but it is not there 6.4 Naveed to Charles , 1 run , length delivery just outside off , Charles presses across and mistimes the drive to the left of mid-off , the batsmen cross over before the fielder runs to his left and stops the ball 6.3 Naveed to Charles , no run , fuller in length and outside off , Charles leans forward and drives , picks out mid-off 6.2 Naveed to Samuels , 1 run , finally Samuels gets one on the bat , it was a short of length delivery outside off , Samuels dabs it past second slip and the batsmen take a single 6.1 Naveed to Samuels , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Samuels looks to run it down to third man , but is lucky to not have edged it to the keeper , he needs to stop poking at these deliveries 5.6 Manjula Guruge to Charles , SIX , Charles is in some mood today , he walks down the track and heaves this fullish delivery on leg over deep mid-wicket , the ball carried over the rope , great shot from him. It was a flat , flat six 5.5 Manjula Guruge to Samuels , 1 run , Samuels finally gets off the mark with a single down to third man , it was on a good length and outside off , Samuels opens the face of the bat and guides it 5.4 Manjula Guruge to Samuels , no run , full and angling away outside off , Samuels again hangs his bat at it , the ball goes past the edge once again 5.3 Manjula Guruge to Samuels , no run , drives this fullish delivery off the inside half of the bat to mid-on 5.2 Manjula Guruge to Samuels , no run , leaves this delivery outside off alone 5.1 Manjula Guruge to Samuels , no run , full and outside off , Samuels leans forward and looks to push , gets beaten 4.6 Naveed to Charles , no run , good bit of inswing on this one as Charles shuffles across and looks to clip it through the on-side , but fails to connect. The ball hits him high on the pad and the angle was taking it down leg , Hawk-Eye shows it was just clipping leg stump and it was wise for UAE to not review it 4.5 Naveed to Charles , no run , short of length delivery slightly wide outside off , Charles goes after it as he looks to cut , but the ball goes past his blade 4.4 Naveed to Charles , no run , fuller in length and with a hint of shape in from just outside off , Charles drives , but the ball rolls away to mid-on off the inside half of the bat 4.3 Naveed to Charles , FOUR , width on offer and Charles latches onto it , he frees his arms as he cuts it square of the wicket with fierce power , the ball rockets away to the fence 4.2 Naveed to Charles , no run , short delivery from Naveed and it was at the batsman , who mistimes the pull to mid-wicket 4.1 Naveed to Charles , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Charles pushes it towards cover Mohammad Naveed [ 1.0-0-7-0 ] is back into the attack Change of ends for Naveed as Aziz is taken off the attack 3.6 Manjula Guruge to Samuels , no run , bowls the inswinger this time , it was full and shaping in on off and middle , Samuels defends after getting behind the line 3.5 Manjula Guruge to Samuels , no run , Samuels is struggling a little here , it was full and swinging away from outside off , Samuels goes for the drive through the off-side , the ball beats the outside edge once again 3.4 Manjula Guruge to Samuels , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Samuels stands tall and defends 3.3 Manjula Guruge to Samuels , no run , peach ! It was a fullish delivery that shapes away as Samuels was in two minds whether to go forward to it or not , the ball beats the outside edge and goes through to the keeper 3.2 Manjula Guruge to Samuels , no run , fuller and angling away outside off , Samuels watches it carefully and lets it pass Marlon Samuels , right handed bat , comes to the crease 3.1 Manjula Guruge to Dwayne Smith , out Caught by Swapnil Patil ! ! Dwayne Smith goes after a quick little stay at the crease. It was on a good length and outside off , the ball shapes in as Smith goes chasing after it , it takes the inside edge to the keeper , who appealed immediately. The bowler did n't think there was any edge there , but umpire Aleem Dar spotted it right as he raised his finger immediately. Gurgue gets the breakthrough with his first ball. Dwayne Smith c Swapnil Patil b Manjula Guruge 15 ( 9 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] Manjula Guruge to Dwayne Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Manjula Guruge , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack A change in bowling as Guruge replaces Naveed after just 1 over. Might be the change of end as well 2.6 Aziz to Charles , FOUR , flatter and just outside off , Charles makes room and drives it through extra cover , Karate from mid-off gives chase , but the ball beats him to the fence 2.5 Aziz to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , flighted delivery just outside off , Smith drives it to mid-off and sets off for a single 2.4 Aziz to Dwayne Smith , no run , touch slower and around off and middle , Smith defends this time 2.3 Aziz to Dwayne Smith , SIX , like Johnson Charles , Dwayne Smith follows the four with a six , it was floated up on the stumps , Smith clears the front leg and hammers it over the long-on fence 2.2 Aziz to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , drifting on the pads , Smith kneels down and slog sweeps it to the deep backward square leg fence 2.1 Aziz to Dwayne Smith , no run , flatter and just outside off , Charles leans forward and defends 1.6 Naveed to Charles , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Charles stands tall and defends to the left of the bowler 1.5 Naveed to Charles , no run , slightly back of a length and just outside off , Charles bunts it to mid-on after going across a touch 1.4 Naveed to Charles , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Charles defends it into the off-side 1.3 Naveed to Charles , FOUR , banged in short and at the batsman , Charles plays a controlled pull and gets it in front of square on the on-side , the fielder from mid-wicket moves across to his right , dives but ca n't stop the ball , he rolled his wrists over it to send it along the ground 1.2 Naveed to Charles , no run , in the channel just outside off , Charles lifts his bat and lets it go Two slips in place for Naveed 1.1 Naveed to Dwayne Smith , 3 runs , back of a length delivery outside off , Smith rocks back and drives it wide of mid-off , the fielder gives chase and the batsmen take three before the ball is hunted down Mohammad Naveed , right-arm medium , comes into the attack Naveed will share the attack with Aziz 0.6 Aziz to Charles , no run , touch flatter and on middle and leg , Charles works it into the on-side 0.5 Aziz to Charles , SIX , follows up the four with a six , It was darted in , Charles stays leg-side of the ball and launches it handsomely over the long-on boundary 0.4 Aziz to Charles , FOUR , comes down the track and lofts this flighted delivery over covers , he did n't time it that well , but the ball had enough legs to reach the fence 0.3 Aziz to Charles , no run , slower through the air and around off , Charles goes across slightly and turns it towards mid-wicket 0.2 Aziz to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , fullish and on middle , Smith drives it down to long-on A slip and a leg slip in place for the spinner 0.1 Aziz to Dwayne Smith , no run , quicker and on off , Smith defends after leaning forward Dwayne Smith and Charles are at the crease. Dwayne Smith is on strike. Aziz will open the attack The players are out in the middle. Johnson Charles will open the innings with Dwayne Smith . Welcome back. West Indies need to chase this in under 36.2 overs to go above Pakistan 's NRR. Should be relatively easy. But can they do it without Gayle ? Remember the UAE seamers were impressive against India when they moved it up front. Johnson Charles will be making his World Cup debut. He needs to invoke his inner Chris Gayle. Should be an interesting chase this. Also West Indies have to beat the weather that may close in anytime . Remember , before the game started , there was a threat of possible showers hitting Napier. So , this has been a fine performance from the West Indies. It is also a do-or-die match for them , as both Ireland and Pakistan are on six points in Group B and the West Indies were on four before this match. UAE will look to pick up a few wickets up front to give the West Indies a scare or two. On the other hand , the Windies will be eager to chase down this target as soon as possible in a bid to improve their net run rate . It was Amjad , with some hefty blows , and Aziz , who stood up to West Indies ' pace attack to take them to a score of some respectability. In particular , Amjad showed decent defence and occasionally , played forceful shots off the pacers to score a crucial fifty. Aziz , who had his fair share of luck early on in his innings also amassed a vital half-century. They put on a superb partnership of 107 for the seventh wicket. It is now the joint highest seventh wicket stand in World Cups . Taylor , who initially , struggled a bit with his line then found his rhythm to bowl a cracker of a delivery that swung in late to knock over Khurram Khan 's leg-stump. If that was n't enough , UAE 's best batsman of the tournament , Shaiman Anwar , too was dismissed by Taylor as they found themselves in trouble. In fact , UAE 's top-order batsmen showed poor technique against some incisive bowling. This World Cup is a steep learning curve for them . West Indies ' captain , Jason Holder , and Jerome Taylor wreaked havoc with the new ball to skittle out the opposition for a modest total. If it was n't for the resistance shown by Amjad Javed and Nasir Aziz , the UAE could have been bowled out for a score of less than 100. Under overcast conditions , Holder and Taylor extracted movement off the deck and in the air to scythe through the opposition ranks. It was Holder , who made the initial breakthrough by dismissing Andri Berenger. Berenger was caught in the crease and that resulted in him edging it to the wicket-keeper , Denesh Ramdin. Holder continued to hit good lengths and was rewarded with the wickets of Krishnachandran Karate and Amjad Ali. He bowled unchanged and ended up with four wickets to his name . West Indies will be reasonably happy to bowl UAE out for 175 , but they should have done better , especially after reducing them to 46/6. They will look to chase this down inside 25 overs to improve their net run rate. There is rain forecast for later in the day and West Indies would hope that the weather is kind on them . 47.4 Jerome Taylor to M Tauqir , out Bowled ! ! Third wicket for Jerome Taylor and all have been bowled. Full and on the stumps , Tauqir plays all around it and tries to play across the line , misses and the ball brushes the pad before crashing into the off stump. M Tauqir b Jerome Taylor 2 ( 19 ) Jerome Taylor to M Tauqir , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 47.3 Jerome Taylor to Manjula Guruge , 1 run , good length delivery on the stumps , Guruge looks to drive and gets an outside edge that rolls to third man 47.2 Jerome Taylor to M Tauqir , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off stump , punched off the back foot to the left of cover 47.1 Jerome Taylor to M Tauqir , no run , fullish and outside off stump , driven to cover Jerome Taylor [ 8.0-0-34-2 ] is back into the attack 46.6 A Russell to Manjula Guruge , no run , full and outside off stump , driven to mid-off 46.5 A Russell to M Tauqir , leg byes , 1 run , short of length delivery from Russell , Tauqir misses the flick and it rolls off the thigh pad towards square leg 46.5 A Russell to M Tauqir , wide , sprays the yorker down the leg-side 46.4 A Russell to Manjula Guruge , 1 run , slower ball outside off stump , Guruge swings hard but gets an outside edge that goes to third man 46.3 A Russell to Manjula Guruge , no run , full and on the stumps , driven to the left of the bowler 46.2 A Russell to Manjula Guruge , no run , driven back to the bowler 46.1 A Russell to Manjula Guruge , no run , short ball on the leg stump , Guruge ducks under it 45.6 Samuels to M Tauqir , no run , goes round the wicket to finish his spell , driven to mid-off. Samuels ends 10-4-25-1 . 45.5 Samuels to M Tauqir , no run , on the leg stump , defended 45.4 Samuels to M Tauqir , no run , on the leg stump , flicked into the on-side 45.3 Samuels to M Tauqir , no run , tossed up outside off stump , Tauqir defends 45.2 Samuels to M Tauqir , no run , flatter and outside off stump , defended 45.1 Samuels to M Tauqir , no run , tossed up outside off stump , Tauqir defends 44.6 A Russell to Manjula Guruge , no run , driven to long-on 44.5 A Russell to Manjula Guruge , no run , low full toss on the stumps , Guruge mistimes the drive to the right of the bowler 44.4 A Russell to M Tauqir , 1 run , good length delivery outside off stump , Tauqir pushes to cover-point and gets off the mark 44.3 A Russell to M Tauqir , no run , full and on the stumps , driven back to the bowler , who has a shy at the striker 's end and misses 44.2 A Russell to M Tauqir , no run , short and on the leg stump , Tauqir ducks under it 44.1 A Russell to Manjula Guruge , 1 run , good length delivery on the stumps , Guruge gets an inside edge that rolls to backward square leg 43.6 Samuels to M Tauqir , no run , flatter from Samuels , Tauqir defends 43.5 Samuels to Manjula Guruge , 1 run , low full toss , driven down to long-on Manjula Guruge , right handed bat , comes to the crease 43.4 Samuels to Aziz , out Caught by J Holder ! ! Soft dismissal. Flighted delivery outside off stump , Aziz advances and looks to go inside-out , he gives himself a bit of room as well , but he drives it straight to cover. The crowd applaud 's Aziz 's effort as he walks of the field. He 's played a great innings under pressure. Aziz c J Holder b Samuels 60 ( 86 ) [ 4s-8 ] Samuels to Aziz , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 43.3 Samuels to Aziz , no run , on the off stump , Aziz flicks it to mid-wicket 43.2 Samuels to Aziz , no run , full and outside off stump , Aziz defends 43.1 Samuels to Aziz , no run , guided to short third man 42.6 A Russell to M Tauqir , no run , on the off stump , Tauqir defends and gets an inside edge that rolls to mid-wicket 42.5 A Russell to M Tauqir , no run , yorker again from Russell , Tauqir digs it out 42.4 A Russell to M Tauqir , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Tauqir gets an inside edge onto pad as he was late in his defence 42.3 A Russell to M Tauqir , no run , bit of a shape back into the right-hander on this good length delivery , Tauqir defends 42.2 A Russell to M Tauqir , no run , fullish and outside off stump , Tauqir defends it to cover Mohammad Tauqir , right handed bat , comes to the crease 42.1 A Russell to Naveed , out Bowled ! ! Full and straight , Naveed does n't manage to keep it out and it crashes into the base of middle and leg. End of a cameo from Naveed. It was fast and full , Naveed had no clue about the yorker , he was beaten for pace and missed the ball completely. Naveed b A Russell 14 ( 9 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] A Russell to Naveed , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 41.6 Samuels to Aziz , no run , flighted delivery from Samuels , Aziz defends 41.5 Samuels to Naveed , 1 run , short and on the stumps , Naveed rocks back and pulls it on the bounce to deep mid-wicket 41.4 Samuels to Naveed , no run , tossed up on the off stump , Naveed defends 41.3 Samuels to Naveed , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Naveed defends it towards point 41.2 Samuels to Naveed , FOUR , full and outside off stump , Naveed drives very hard through cover-point and it rocketed to the fence 41.1 Samuels to Naveed , 2 runs , deft touch ! Shortish and outside off stump , Naveed guides it down to third man 40.6 A Russell to Naveed , 1 run , fullish and outside off stump , Naveed guides it down to third man 40.5 A Russell to Naveed , SIX , short and on the stumps , Naveed muscles the pull very hard and clears deep mid-wicket. Remember , this bloke thrashed Dale Steyn in the previous match 40.4 A Russell to Naveed , no run , full and on the off stump , Naveed defends Mohammad Naveed , right handed bat , comes to the crease 40.3 A Russell to Amjad Javed , out Bowled ! ! Finally , West Indies have managed to break this excellent 107-run stand. Javed gets a good round of applause from the crowd as he walks off the field and he raises his bat. Slower ball from Russell , Javed goes for the slog. He clears his front foot as well , but only manages to inside edge it onto leg stump. Amjad Javed b A Russell 56 ( 99 ) [ 4s-7 6s-1 ] A Russell to Amjad Javed , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 40.2 A Russell to Aziz , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Aziz pulls it to long-on 40.1 A Russell to Aziz , no run , short and outside off stump , Aziz cuts but misses Andre Russell [ 4.0-2-8-0 ] is back into the attack UAE have scored 31/0 off the batting powerplay . 39.6 Samuels to Amjad Javed , no run , on the stumps , Javed works it into the on-side 39.5 Samuels to Amjad Javed , no run , stays in the crease and turns it o square leg 39.4 Samuels to Amjad Javed , no run , on the leg stump , Javed glances it to backward square leg 39.3 Samuels to Amjad Javed , no run , tossed up outside off stump , Javed defends off the front foot 39.2 Samuels to Amjad Javed , no run , again goes on the back foot and cuts but picks out the man at point this time 39.1 Samuels to Amjad Javed , FOUR , he 's hammered that. Short and outside off stump , Javed goes leg-side and gives himself a bit of room , plays the cut really well and times sweetly. The ball runs away through backward point 38.6 Roach to Amjad Javed , 1 run , drives and gets an outside edge that rolls to third man 38.5 Roach to Amjad Javed , FOUR , slower ball outside off stump , Javed picks it early and drives it through cover. That is his maiden ODI fifty and also the hundred partnership as well. This is a great recovery from UAE 38.4 Roach to Aziz , 1 run , full and on the leg stump , Aziz flicks it to deep backward square leg 38.3 Roach to Aziz , FOUR , short of length delivery on the stumps , Aziz swings across the line and gets it on the inside half of the bat , the ball rolls away to the fine leg boundary 38.2 Roach to Aziz , FOUR , short and outside off stump , Aziz rocks back and pulls it over mid-wicket. The fielders hardly move. West Indies need some inspiration 38.1 Roach to Amjad Javed , 1 run , yorker on the stumps , Javed swings hard and gets an inside edge that rolls to long leg 37.6 Samuels to Aziz , no run , fullish and on the stumps , Aziz defends 37.5 Samuels to Aziz , no run , on the leg stump , tucked to backward square leg 37.4 Samuels to Aziz , no run , on the stumps , Aziz picks out mid-wicket 37.3 Samuels to Aziz , no run , played into the on-side again 37.2 Samuels to Aziz , no run , appeal for LBW , not given and rightly so. Aziz gets his front foot outside off stump and misses the sweep 37.1 Samuels to Aziz , no run , flighted delivery on the leg stump , turned into the on-side 36.6 Roach to Amjad Javed , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Javed pushes it into the off-side 36.5 Roach to Aziz , 1 run , maiden ODI fifty for Aziz. Fullish and angling into the right-hander , Aziz glances it to fine leg. He takes the helmet off , raises his bat and acknowledges the applause. He hugs his partner as well 36.4 Roach to Aziz , 2 runs , top edge but safe. Short and on the stumps , Aziz goes for the pull but gets the edge , Ramdin runs back but it goes over him 36.3 Roach to Aziz , no run , full and outside off stump , Aziz drives it into the on-side 36.2 Roach to Amjad Javed , 1 run , good length delivery on the leg stump , Javed flicks it to fine leg 36.1 Roach to Amjad Javed , FOUR , even a desperate dive from the fielder at fine leg was not good enough. Poor start to the new spell for Roach. Good length delivery angling into the right-hander , Javed tickles it fine and gets four Kemar Roach [ 6.0-0-31-0 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Samuels to Aziz , no run , flatter delivery outside off stump , Aziz punches it to cover 35.5 Samuels to Aziz , FOUR , goes across and down on one knee to paddle it fine to the fine leg boundary. This is good batting from Aziz 35.4 Samuels to Aziz , no run , gets across the stumps and turns it to square leg 35.3 Samuels to Aziz , no run , flattter ball outside off stump , Aziz defends 35.2 Samuels to Aziz , no run , spinning back in , Aziz defends 35.1 Samuels to Aziz , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Aziz defends it to point Batting powerplay has been enforced 34.6 Dwayne Smith to Aziz , 1 run , short and on the stumps , Aziz pulls it to deep square leg 34.5 Dwayne Smith to Amjad Javed , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Javed cuts it to sweeper cover 34.4 Dwayne Smith to Amjad Javed , no run , full and outside off stump , Javed defends it towards cover 34.3 Dwayne Smith to Amjad Javed , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , cut to cover 34.2 Dwayne Smith to Amjad Javed , no run , fullish and outside off stump , Javed gets it on the outside half of the bat and rolls to point , thinks about a run but Aziz says no 34.1 Dwayne Smith to Aziz , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Aziz defends and gets a thickish edge that rolls to third man 33.6 Samuels to Amjad Javed , no run , on the stumps , Javed defends 33.5 Samuels to Amjad Javed , no run , flatter delivery outside off stump , Javed punches it to cover 33.4 Samuels to Amjad Javed , no run , shortish and outside off stump , Javed mistimes the cut towards point 33.3 Samuels to Amjad Javed , no run , looks to work it on the on-side , but gets a leading edge to rolls to the left of Samuels 33.2 Samuels to Amjad Javed , no run , tossed up just outside off stump , defended 33.1 Samuels to Amjad Javed , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Javed defends off the front foot 32.6 Dwayne Smith to Aziz , no run , back of a length on the off stump , Aziz defends 32.5 Dwayne Smith to Amjad Javed , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Javed goes for the drive and gets a thick edge that rolls to square third man 32.4 Dwayne Smith to Amjad Javed , no run , back of a length outside off stump , pushed to point 32.3 Dwayne Smith to Amjad Javed , no run , steeply rising short ball outside off stump , Javed drops his wrists and lets it go 32.2 Dwayne Smith to Amjad Javed , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Javed plays it to point Sammy is unhappy with something. Looks like he 's unhappy that he 's been taken off the attack. He did n't collect the throw that came towards him from point. Holder walks up to him and has a chat with him . 32.1 Dwayne Smith to Aziz , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Aziz plays away from the body and gets a thickish edge that rolls to third man Dwayne Smith , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 31.6 Samuels to Amjad Javed , no run , leans forward and keeps it out easily again 31.5 Samuels to Amjad Javed , no run , floated up outside off stump , Javed defends easily again 31.4 Samuels to Amjad Javed , no run , on the leg stump , Javed defends 31.3 Samuels to Amjad Javed , FOUR , too short from Samuels and Javed does n't miss out. Cuts nicely off the back foot , he made a bit of room as well and sends it to the left of backward point 31.2 Samuels to Amjad Javed , no run , outside off stump , defended into the off-side 31.1 Samuels to Amjad Javed , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Javed defends Amjad 's partner at the other end , Nasir Aziz , had his fair share of luck and Jason Holder also dropped a tough chance in the slip cordon. However , to his credit , he too showed the determination to stick around and stitch a 50-run stand with Amjad. West Indies ' support bowlers have n't exactly been on the money . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the last 17.1 overs : Lower-order batsman , Amjad Javed , continued to offer resistance by landing a few hefty blows. He played a few good shots that included a forceful cut shot off Kemar Roach that rocketed to the boundary boards. Just like most lower-order batsmen , on occasions , he also backed away in an attempt to thump the pacers. It certainly frustrated the Windies fast bowlers . Drinks are on the field now 30.6 Sammy to Aziz , 2 runs , short and on the stumps , Aziz pulls it along the ground to deep square leg , where Taylor makes an excellent diving save to his right 30.5 Sammy to Aziz , no run , pushed to cover 30.4 Sammy to Aziz , no run , gets right behind the line of this short of length delivery and defends well 30.3 Sammy to Aziz , no run , good length delivery on the stumps , Aziz defends 30.2 Sammy to Amjad Javed , 1 run , again down the leg-side , easily tickled away to fine leg 30.1 Sammy to Aziz , 1 run , full and on the leg stump , Aziz glances it to long leg Darren Sammy , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 29.6 Samuels to Aziz , 3 runs , gets across the stumps and goes for the paddle , the ball rolls to fine leg. West Indies appeal for LBW , but bat was involved 29.5 Samuels to Aziz , no run , flighted delivery from Samuels , Aziz defends 29.4 Samuels to Aziz , no run , on the off stump , Aziz turns it towards backward square leg 29.3 Samuels to Amjad Javed , 1 run , flicked to square leg for a run again 29.2 Samuels to Aziz , 1 run , waits for the ball to come and turns it to square leg 29.1 Samuels to Aziz , no run , tossed up outside off stump , Aziz defends 28.6 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Javed , no run , back over the wicket , short of length delivery outside off stump , Javed defends it towards point 28.5 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Javed , no run , short and on the stumps , Javed ducks under it 28.4 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Javed , no run , length ball on the stumps , Javed gets across and defends 28.3 Jerome Taylor to Aziz , 1 run , good length delivery on the stumps , Aziz flicks it to backward square leg , where Samuels misfields the ball 28.3 Jerome Taylor to Aziz , wide , short and on the stumps , but the umpire doesnt like the height on that one 28.2 Jerome Taylor to Aziz , no run , plays inside the line of this short of length delivery and gets beaten 28.1 Jerome Taylor to Aziz , no run , good length delivery angling away from the right-hander from round the wicket , left alone 27.6 Samuels to Amjad Javed , no run , Javed is solid in defence again. Maiden over from Samuels 27.5 Samuels to Amjad Javed , no run , full and outside off stump , easily kept out 27.4 Samuels to Amjad Javed , no run , tossed up outside off stump , blocked 27.3 Samuels to Amjad Javed , no run , slower through the air again , Javed lunges forward to defend 27.2 Samuels to Amjad Javed , no run , gets behind the line of this flighted delivery and defends off the front foot 27.1 Samuels to Amjad Javed , no run , flighted delivery on the off stump , Javed defends One slip in place Marlon Samuels , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 26.6 Jerome Taylor to Aziz , no run , misses the flick , the ball rolls off the thigh pad to the keeper 26.5 Jerome Taylor to Aziz , no run , good length delivery on the off stump , Aziz defends 26.4 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Javed , 1 run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Javed flicks it to mid-wicket 26.3 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Javed , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Javed taps it to point and looks for a run but Aziz sends him back 26.2 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Javed , FOUR , backs away and squeezes it out. Full and outside off stump , Javed sends it between cover-point and backward point for four 26.1 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Javed , no run , good length delivery on the off stump , Javed works it towards backward square leg Jerome Taylor [ 6.0-0-27-2 ] is back into the attack 25.6 Roach to Aziz , FOUR , short delivery outside off stump , Aziz pulls it through mid-wicket and raises the fifty partnership 25.6 Roach to Aziz , wide , Roach has to rebowl that , it was way outside off stump 25.5 Roach to Aziz , no run , fullish and well outside off stump , Aziz shoulders arms 25.4 Roach to Aziz , FOUR , bumper not rising much , Aziz rocks back and pulls it over backward square leg and there was no one in the deep 25.3 Roach to Aziz , no run , goes for the pull but hits it straight to short mid-wicket 25.2 Roach to Aziz , no run , flicked to backward square leg 25.1 Roach to Aziz , no run , short of length delivery on the off stumps , Aziz defends off the back foot The sun pops out for the first time 24.6 A Russell to Amjad Javed , no run , full and on the stumps , Javed turns it into the on-side 24.5 A Russell to Amjad Javed , no run , slower ball just outside off stump , Javed waits and defends well 24.4 A Russell to Amjad Javed , no run , another sharp short ball on the off stump , Javed sits under it 24.3 A Russell to Amjad Javed , no run , bouncer from Russell , Javed ducks under it 24.2 A Russell to Amjad Javed , no run , short and on the stumps , Javed hops and fends 24.1 A Russell to Amjad Javed , no run , taps this good length delivery to point and looks for a run , but Aziz says no 23.6 Roach to Amjad Javed , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Javed guides it to backward point 23.5 Roach to Amjad Javed , no run , short and on the stumps , Javed ducks under it 23.4 Roach to Aziz , 3 runs , full and on the stumps , Aziz plays an extended forward push and it rolls to long-on 23.3 Roach to Aziz , FOUR , edged , but safe ! Good length delivery outside off stump , Aziz pushes away from the body and gets a thick edge , second slip flies to his right but does n't get there Russell is seen holding his left leg. Curtly Ambrose has a chat with him on the sidelines . 23.2 Roach to Aziz , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Aziz defends off the back foot 23.1 Roach to Aziz , no run , full and outside off stump , Aziz looks to drive through the off-side , the bat turns in his hands and goes to mid-on 22.6 A Russell to Aziz , 1 run , bouncer on the stumps , Aziz goes for the hook but mistimes it , luckily for him , it does n't carry to fine leg 22.6 A Russell to Aziz , wide , short and down the leg-side , Aziz tries to help it on its way but misses 22.5 A Russell to Aziz , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , mistimed cut to point 22.4 A Russell to Aziz , no run , short of length delivery on the stumps , Aziz defends 22.3 A Russell to Aziz , no run , the attempted yorker goes as a low full toss , Aziz gets an inside edge onto pad 22.2 A Russell to Aziz , no run , short of length delivery on the stumps , turned to backward square leg 22.1 A Russell to Aziz , no run , short and on the stumps , Aziz pulls and misses 21.6 Roach to Aziz , 1 run , another edge but there is no one at gully. Short of a length delivery swinging away outside off stump , Aziz plays away from the body and gets lucky with the edge. The ball rolls to third man 21.5 Roach to Aziz , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Aziz defends 21.4 Roach to Aziz , no run , beaten again ! Nice outswinger on a good length , Aziz plays inside the line as he looks to defend and the ball goes past the outside edge 21.3 Roach to Aziz , no run , good length delivery nipping away outside off stump , Aziz drives and misses. West Indies appeal for a caught behind but the umpire is unmoved 21.2 Roach to Aziz , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Aziz slashes and misses 21.1 Roach to Aziz , FOUR , edged and dropped , but it was a very tough chance. Short and wide outside off stump , Aziz looks to cut , gets an outside edge that flies high to Holder 's left at first slip. He jumps high and tries to grab it with both hands but only manages to get his fingertips Kemar Roach [ 3.0-0-9-0 ] is back into the attack 20.6 A Russell to Amjad Javed , no run , fullish and on the stumps , Javed flicks it to mid-wicket and it 's a maiden over 20.5 A Russell to Amjad Javed , no run , backs away and has a wild swing across the line , but misses 20.4 A Russell to Amjad Javed , no run , gets behind the line of this short of length delivery and defends 20.3 A Russell to Amjad Javed , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , defended off the back foot 20.2 A Russell to Amjad Javed , no run , another bumper , Javed lets it go 20.1 A Russell to Amjad Javed , no run , short delivery on the stumps , Javed ducks under it Jason Holder has finished his spell : 10-1-27-4. He is the first bowler to bowl unchanged in this World Cup . 19.6 J Holder to Aziz , no run , ends his spell with a full one on the stumps , pushed to mid-on 19.5 J Holder to Aziz , no run , lovely comeback from Holder , draws Aziz on the front foot , the ball seams away past the outside edge , very close to his five-for was Holder there 19.4 J Holder to Aziz , FOUR , Aziz gets lucky. No position to pull and he gets lucky , swivels on the shot and gets a top edge over the slip cordon , runs away to the fence 19.3 J Holder to Amjad Javed , 1 run , full and on the stumps , Amjad Javed gets inside the line to flick to deep backward square leg 19.2 J Holder to Aziz , 1 run , full and on the leg stump , swung away to deep backward square leg , for a single 19.1 J Holder to Aziz , no run , pitched up outside off , driven to cover 18.6 A Russell to Amjad Javed , FOUR , every now and then Amjad Javed will take a risk. He backs away and drills the low full toss wide of mid-on. Russell did n't like that , has a stare at the batsman 18.5 A Russell to Aziz , 1 run , short ball , does n't rise much , pulled to deep square leg 18.4 A Russell to Aziz , no run , back of a length on the stumps , Aziz defends to short mid-wicket 18.3 A Russell to Amjad Javed , 1 run , very full and outside off , Amjad Javed shuffles across and clips that to deep backward square leg 18.2 A Russell to Amjad Javed , no run , back of a length outside off , Amjad Javed punches it wide of point , it was an easy single , but Aziz sent him back 18.1 A Russell to Amjad Javed , no run , back of a length outside off , Amjad Javed defends to point Andre Russell , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 17.6 J Holder to Aziz , no run , very full on off , driven straight to the fielder at cover 17.5 J Holder to Aziz , 2 runs , Aziz swivels on the pull and gets it down to deep backward square leg , Simmons runs to his left and tidies up 17.4 J Holder to Amjad Javed , 1 run , too straight and on the stumps , Amjad Javed flicks to deep mid-wicket 17.3 J Holder to Amjad Javed , no run , dug in short outside off , Amjad Javed ducks under that 17.2 J Holder to Amjad Javed , no run , pitched up outside off , Amjad Javed opens the face of the bat and drives it straight to the fielder at point 17.1 J Holder to Aziz , 1 run , in the air , but in the gap as well , Aziz driving away from the body and getting a single to third man 16.6 Roach to Amjad Javed , no run , wild swing from Amjad Javed that time , it was full and wide outside off , he went after it and did n't connect 16.5 Roach to Amjad Javed , no run , very full and on off , squeezed out to mid-off 16.4 Roach to Amjad Javed , no run , pushes firmly to cover 16.3 Roach to Amjad Javed , no run , on a good length and on off , Amjad Javed gets forward to defend to mid-off 16.2 Roach to Amjad Javed , FOUR , cracking shot that. Fraction short outside off , Amjad Javed rocked forward and then pressed back to flash a cut that left the fielders standing and applauding 16.1 Roach to Amjad Javed , 2 runs , Amjad Javed is deep in his cresae and chips the full ball over mid-off , gets it in the gap for two 15.6 J Holder to Aziz , no run , brilliant leg-cutter , with extra bounce to go with it , Aziz pulls his bat inside the line and lets it go 15.5 J Holder to Aziz , no run , Sammy said no initially after taking the catch , but then says he is n't sure. It has gone upstairs now. Edged to Sammy at 2nd slip and the replays will make everything clear. No problems with the front foot. The front-on replays show it has carried nicely. Need another angle now. Only one replay seen and the third umpire does n't see conclusive evidence to give that out. Fair call in the end . 15.4 J Holder to Aziz , no run , on a good length outside off , left alone 15.3 J Holder to Amjad Javed , 1 run , shuffles across a bit and flicks this middle stump ball through mid-wicket 15.2 J Holder to Amjad Javed , no run , was that off the glove ? No off the shoulder and umpire Ranmore Martinesz gets it right. West Indies do n't review and accept the decision. Dug in short , Amjad Javed was looking to duck and could n't evade the short ball , it went off the shoulder and Ramdin caught it 15.1 J Holder to Amjad Javed , no run , shortish outside off , Amjad Javed defends to point off the back foot 14.6 Roach to Aziz , no run , Aziz is showing good technique to handle Roach , defends it back to Roach solidly 14.5 Roach to Aziz , no run , on the stumps , Aziz shows the full face of the bat and pushes to mid-on 14.4 Roach to Aziz , no run , now gets forward and drives well , but straight to the fielder at mid-off 14.3 Roach to Aziz , 2 runs , back of a length outside off , Aziz plays another good punch off the back foot , beats the diving point to his left 14.2 Roach to Aziz , no run , short of length outside off , Aziz stands tall and punches to point 14.1 Roach to Aziz , no run , short of length on the stumps , defended to square leg 13.6 J Holder to Aziz , leg byes , 1 run , down leg , off the pad Nasir Aziz , right handed bat , comes to the crease Holder followed it up by bowling another fine delivery to Krishnachandran Karate to beat the edge , before dismissing him in the sixth over. He also sent Amjad Ali back to the pavilion. When Holder bowls on a good length , he can be a handful with the new ball , as he extracts bounce and also seam movement off the deck , on most occasions. To make it a great start for the West Indies , Taylor produced a peach of a delivery that swung back in late to knock over Khurram Khan 's leg-stump. There are n't too many better sights in cricket than watching a swing bowler seemingly having the ball on a string. With Taylor knocking over UAE 's best batsman , Shaiman Anwar , they were in dire straits . Here is Bharath Ramaraj 's analysis of the first 13.5 overs : Under overcast conditions , the pace duo of Jerome Taylor and Jason Holder wreaked havoc to leave UAE reeling. It was Holder , who in the fourth over of the innings , found his rhythm and took the wicket of Andri Berenger. It was Holder 's ability to extract bounce from a length that resulted in Berenger getting caught in the crease and edge it to Denesh Ramdin , the wicket-keeper . With that wicket , the players have taken drinks as well. Holder seemed to be tiring in that over , but came back with a brilliant delivery to dismiss Swapnil Patil. Seam movement doing the trick. The West Indies have come out like a side possessed and have the UAE 6 down in no time. This could get over very quickly , well before Cyclone Pam hits Napier . 13.5 J Holder to Swapnil Patil , out Bowled ! ! Holder has four and UAE are 6 down. Went wide of the crease and angled it in , it nipped back a long way and beat the forward defensive of Swapnil Patil , big gap between bat and pad , the ball thuds into the stumps and it 's a sorry sight for the batter. Swapnil Patil b J Holder 6 ( 20 ) J Holder to Swapnil Patil , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 13.4 J Holder to Swapnil Patil , no run , Holder lets a gasp as he beats the bat. Swinging away , well outside off , Swapnil Patil went for the big drive and missed 13.4 J Holder to Swapnil Patil , no run 13.3 J Holder to Swapnil Patil , no run , on a good length and outside off , Swapnil Patil shoulders arms 13.2 J Holder to Swapnil Patil , no run , Swapnil Patil gets forward and pushes the length ball straight to the fielder at cover 13.1 J Holder to Swapnil Patil , 2 runs , outswinger , Swapnil Patil gets forward and opens the face of the bat to drive square of the wicket , Carter runs after that and pulls out the dive to get the ball back in , good effort that 12.6 Roach to Amjad Javed , no run , Roach seems to be struggling , no pace or oomph in his bowling in that over , Amjad Javed blocks easily off the back foot 12.5 Roach to Amjad Javed , no run , Amjad Javed shuffles across a tad and then taps that to the right of Roach who runs across to field 12.4 Roach to Swapnil Patil , leg byes , 1 run , down leg once more , Swapnil Patil flicks and misses , off the pad and they take a leg bye 12.3 Roach to Swapnil Patil , no run , short of length on off , Swapnil Patil opens the face of the bat and defends to point 12.3 Roach to Swapnil Patil , wide , Roach slips that down leg 12.2 Roach to Swapnil Patil , no run , nips back in sharply and Swapnil Patil is in position to play that , gets hit on the body 12.1 Roach to Swapnil Patil , no run , back of a length on off , Swapnil Patil hops back and turns it to short mid-wicket Kemar Roach , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 11.6 J Holder to Amjad Javed , no run , wide of the crease and Holder beats Amjad Javed with one that held its line outside off , Amjad Javed poking away from the body uncertainly and lucky not to edge that behind 11.5 J Holder to Amjad Javed , no run , full and on off , Amjad Javed shuffles across a tad and keeps that out 11.4 J Holder to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , short on the stumps , Swapnil Patil swivels on the pull and gets it down to fine leg 11.3 J Holder to Swapnil Patil , no run , back of a length outside off , Swapnil Patil plays away from the body , but gets it to point 11.2 J Holder to Swapnil Patil , no run , pitched up outside off , Patil gets forward to drive to mid-off , softly played 11.1 J Holder to Amjad Javed , 1 run , Amjad Javed knocks this into the gap at mid-wicket for an easy single 10.6 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Javed , 1 run , the double-bluff from Jerome Taylor , bowls the full toss , Amjad Javed turns it wide of mid-on , retains the strike with that run Square leg goes back 10.5 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Javed , no run , Amjad Javed shows good technique as he shows the full face of the bat and pushes it to mid-off 10.4 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Javed , no run , another yorker , Amjad Javed keeps it out to mid-wicket , Swapnil Patil is sent back and makes it back 10.3 Jerome Taylor to Swapnil Patil , leg byes , 1 run , down leg , runs off the thigh pad , behind square 10.2 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Javed , 1 run , Jerome Taylor comes back with a yorker , but Amjad Javed squirts it out to fine deep backward square leg 10.1 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Javed , SIX , what a hit that is. That has come out of the blue. Holder looks stunned. Jerome Taylor went full and on the stumps , Amjad Javed backed away and then slogged it miles over long-on , connected well and sent it way back 9.6 J Holder to Amjad Javed , 1 run , flicked in the air , but in the gap at mid-wicket , no-one there and Amjad Javed gets a single 9.5 J Holder to Amjad Javed , no run , full on the stumps , Amjad Javed gets half forward and pushes it to point 9.5 J Holder to Amjad Javed , wide , dug in short , Amjad Javed arches back and lets it go , called wide for height 9.4 J Holder to Amjad Javed , no run , short and down leg , into the body and Amjad Javed once again fends without any conviction , but keeps it down 9.3 J Holder to Amjad Javed , no run , edged and does n't carry to 2nd slip. Javed driving away from the body and nearly falling. It did n't carry though to the cordon 9.2 J Holder to Amjad Javed , no run , Amjad Javed shuffles across a tad and then awkwardly pushes it to point as Holder went full and wide outside off 9.1 J Holder to Amjad Javed , no run , back of a length outside off , left alone 8.6 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Javed , 1 run , full and down leg , flicked to fine leg , good stop there as the fielder dives to his left 8.5 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Javed , 2 runs , in the air , but just eludes the left-hand of Taylor in his followthrough , uppish flick from Amjad Javed and Taylor was late in getting down , the ball escapes to long-off 8.4 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Javed , no run , loose , very loose from Amjad Javed , his side are five down and he plays a very iffy stroke , the feet did n't move and he plays and misses at a full ball outside off Chris Gayle is at the ground and is seen sporting a big smile on his face 8.3 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Javed , no run , back of a length on the stumps , defended to square leg Amjad Javed , right handed bat , comes to the crease 8.2 Jerome Taylor to Shaiman Anwar , out Bowled ! ! Taylor knocks UAE 's best batsman over. Nips back in a tad , cross-seam delivery , on of and middle , Shaiman Anwar plays all around it , ambitious stroke attempted as he tries to flick , the ball pings the pad and then clatters into off and middle stump , the off stump lies flat on the ground. Fab stuff from the Windies in a do-or-die game. Shaiman Anwar b Jerome Taylor 2 ( 6 ) Jerome Taylor to Shaiman Anwar , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 8.1 Jerome Taylor to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , on a length and on off , wristed wide of mid-on , for a single 7.6 J Holder to Shaiman Anwar , no run , pitched up outside off , Anwar gets forward and opens the face of the bat to defend to point 7.5 J Holder to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , shortish on the stumps , Swapnil Patil nudges it with soft hands to square leg , for a single 7.4 J Holder to Swapnil Patil , no run , short of length on off , Patil defends solidly to short cover 7.3 J Holder to Swapnil Patil , no run , back of a length outside off , left alone 7.2 J Holder to Swapnil Patil , no run , outswinger , left alone 7.1 J Holder to Swapnil Patil , no run , pitched up outside off , Swapnil Patil softly pushes to mid-off , wants a run , but Russell runs around and stops it with a dive 6.6 Jerome Taylor to Shaiman Anwar , 2 runs , too full and down leg , clipped to deep backward square leg , nicely played and it 's a couple of runs 6.5 Jerome Taylor to Swapnil Patil , 1 run , so nearly the fifth wicket. Patil early into the flick and gets a leading edge , Simmons was creeping forward at mid-on , had to backpedal and the ball fell safely. Simmons has a sheepish smile on his face. Ramdin and Holder shouted 'catch , catch ' as they saw the ball in the air Swapnil Patil , right handed bat , comes to the crease 6.4 Jerome Taylor to K Khan , out Bowled ! ! Unplayable ! What.A.Ball. Super comeback from Taylor to knock the leg stump out. Late swing into Khan , he was n't expecting the ball to swing in so much , gets his bat down late on the flick , gets a tiny inside edge , but the ball smashes into leg stump and knocks it out. Taylor is high-fiving his team-mates after jumping all around. West Indies all over UAE like a cheap suit. K Khan b Jerome Taylor 5 ( 5 ) [ 4s-1 ] Jerome Taylor to K Khan , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 6.3 Jerome Taylor to K Khan , FOUR , pitched up outside off and Khan latches on , bends his knee a little and square drives wide of point. Class written all over the shot from Khan. The ball screamed away tot the fence 6.2 Jerome Taylor to K Khan , no run , angled across Khan on a full length , he lets it go 6.1 Jerome Taylor to K Khan , no run , back of a length outside off , Khan mistimes the cut to point 5.6 J Holder to Shaiman Anwar , no run , Holder drifts that outside off , easy leave for Shaiman Anwar 5.5 J Holder to Shaiman Anwar , no run , Shaiman Anwar is tentatively forward and manages to get an inside edge to short mid-wicket. Very nervy batting 5.4 J Holder to Shaiman Anwar , no run , Holder greets Shaiman Anwar with a short ball , Anwar arches back and lets it go Shaiman Anwar , right handed bat , comes to the crease 5.3 J Holder to Amjad Ali , out Lbw ! ! Holder is on fire. He is bowling beautifully and has struck for the third time. This one was on a a fuller length and on middle , Amjad Ali fell over in trying to flick and missed the shot , the ball thudded into the pads , huge appeal and umpire Ranmore Martinesz had the finger up. Amjad Ali reviews in vain. Amjad Ali lbw b J Holder 5 ( 19 ) J Holder to Amjad Ali , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Amjad Ali has gone for the review. Given out lbw. No problems with Holder 's front foot. Looks plumb , no inside edge onto the pads. It has to be missing completely for it to be overturned. Hitting the top of middle and Amjad Ali has to go. UAE are three down . 5.2 J Holder to K Khan , 1 run , bounced a bit extra , but Khan did well not to fend at that and just sparred at that with soft hands , wide of point , down to third man , single taken Khurram Khan , left handed bat , comes to the crease 5.1 J Holder to Karate , out Caught by Dwayne Smith ! ! Holder strikes again. Holder is just keeping it on a good length and outside off , bit of seam movement and that does Karate in , he was looking to defend , but with an open face , and that proves fatal , the edge carrying nicely to first slip where Smith makes no mistake. West Indies on their way. Karate c Dwayne Smith b J Holder 0 ( 6 ) J Holder to Karate , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 5.1 J Holder to Karate , wide , way outside off , wide called 4.6 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Ali , no run , pitched up outside off , Amjad Ali goes for a big drive and completely mistimes it to cover 4.5 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Ali , no run , dug in short outside off , Amjad Ali weaves himself out of the way 4.4 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Ali , no run , pushed further wide of off , left alone 4.3 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Ali , no run , loose from Amjad Ali , he goes after that full and wide delivery and misses out , the ball kept going away from him and he could n't reach out fully to drive 4.2 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Ali , 2 runs , pitched up outside off , Amjad Ali leans forward and just times the drive to deep extra cover , reined in by the chasing fielder 4.1 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Ali , no run , back of a length outside off , Amjad Ali defends it back to Taylor 3.6 J Holder to Karate , no run , terrific bowling from Holder. He gets this back of a length delivery to rear up on Karate who was pushing inside the line , the ball bounces a tad extra and beats the outside edge. Lovely stuff from the West Indian captain 3.5 J Holder to Karate , no run , short and down leg , Karate ducks under that 3.4 J Holder to Karate , no run , full outside off , Karate gets forward and looks to defend , but gets a thick outside edge to gully , on the bounce 3.3 J Holder to Karate , no run , outside off , left alone Now three slips and a gully 3.2 J Holder to Karate , no run , that is another ripper , similar to the one that got him the wicket , Karate pushed out and was lucky not to edge that behind , it flew to Ramdin at a nice height. Holder bent his back and extracted bounce and pace from the wicket Krishnachandran Karate , right handed bat , comes to the crease 3.1 J Holder to Andri Berenger , out Caught by Ramdin ! ! Edged and given out. It was a fine delivery from Holder , back of a length and holding its line outside off , with a bit of extra bounce , Berenger was n't fully forward and in trying to defend , could only edge it behind. Ramdin catches it and throws it away. Just the start the West Indies needed. Andri Berenger c Ramdin b J Holder 7 ( 7 ) [ 4s-1 ] J Holder to Andri Berenger , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 2.6 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Ali , no run , short outside off , Amjad Ali controls the pull and gets it to the left of mid-on , Lendl Simmons though gets across quickly and saves runs 2.5 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Ali , 2 runs , angled in , tucked to deep square leg , for a couple , nice roll of the wrists 2.4 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Ali , no run , yorker length outside off , left alone 2.3 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Ali , no run , gets forward and defends a length ball angling back in , to the bowler 2.2 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Ali , no run , confusion as Amjad Ali drove that to mid-off , Dwayne Smith ran forward and fired at the striker 's end , Amjad Ali had got back by then , but the throw had to be at the other end , Andri Berenger was way down and had Smith gone there , he might have got the non-striker out 2.1 Jerome Taylor to Andri Berenger , 1 run , Andri Berenger gets forward to defend , pushes out and gets a thick outside edge , third slip if he was there , would 've had a chance , but there are only two slips 1.6 J Holder to Amjad Ali , no run , big , big shout for lbw , but has Amjad Ali got outside the line of off ? That is the only thing that could 've saved him. Or did he get an inside edge onto the pads ? Umpire Ranmore Martinesz shakes his head and rejects the appeal. Holder does n't review , has a wry smile on his face as he receives the cap from the umpire. Replays show that Amjad Ali has gotten an inside edge onto the pads. Good umpiring 1.5 J Holder to Amjad Ali , no run , on a length and outside off , left alone 1.5 J Holder to Amjad Ali , wide , way outside off as Holder is n't getting his line right 1.4 J Holder to Andri Berenger , 1 run , Russell fumbles at cover and Holder is n't happy. It was pushed to him and Russell did n't get the body behind the ball , that should 've been stopped 1.3 J Holder to Andri Berenger , FOUR , edged and Andri Berenger gets away , back of a length outside off , Andri Berenger tried to withdraw the bat from the ball 's path , was too late and the thick edge flew over Sammy 's left-hand at 2nd slip , he leapt high but it was well over him. Ca n't call that a drop 1.2 J Holder to Andri Berenger , no run , that 's much better from Andri Berenger , gets forward and then shoulders arms to a ball outside off 1.1 J Holder to Andri Berenger , no run , loose from Andri Berenger , outswinger and Andri Berenger threw his bat at the drive without any footwork , missed 1.1 J Holder to Andri Berenger , wide , well down leg and a good take by Ramdin to his left Jason Holder , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Ali , no run , short and dug in , good effort ball , Amjad Ali ducks under that and lets it go 0.5 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Ali , no run , full and outside off , Amjad Ali comes on the front foot to block solidly to cover 0.4 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Ali , no run , huge shout for lbw , but West Indies do n't take the review , lovely inswinging yorker , Amjad Ali got outside the line of off and tried to flick it away , got struck low on the pad , it was going to hit the stumps , but the shuffle across helped Amjad Ali get away Jerome Taylor is now coming round the wicket 0.4 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Ali , wide , Jerome Taylor slips that down leg , Amjad Ali flicks and misses 0.3 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Ali , no run , full outside off , Amjad Ali gets forward and pushes it to mid-off 0.2 Jerome Taylor to Andri Berenger , 1 run , on a length and on middle and leg , Andri Berenger turns it in front of mid-on for a quick single , he too is away 0.1 Jerome Taylor to Amjad Ali , 1 run , immediately there is an outside edge and it would 've carried to a fourth slip. Jerome Taylor bowls a full length and draws Amjad Ali forward , on the drive , but it flies away to third man , Amjad Ali is off the mark with a streaky shot Amjad Ali and Andri Berenger are at the crease. Amjad Ali is on strike. Jerome Taylor will open the attack Jerome Taylor will start. Two slips in place. False start as he loses his run-up. Has a wry smile on his face Curtly Ambrose is the man leading the talk in the West Indies huddle. He is smiling and that 's good to see. A lot of the players look happy too as they listen to the big man. They certainly seem to be in a jovial and relaxed mood. The UAE openers walk out. Today will test them. Overcast conditions and facing Jerome Taylor wo n't be easy . Pitch report by big Tom Moody : It is a very hard and dry surface. Lots of weather around. UAE has played here before , so they have the experience. Whoever wins the toss would look to bat first and post runs. Average score on this ground in the last 10 games is 293 . It is quite overcast out there and West Indies would want to bowl UAE out inside 30 overs and chase it down quickly as the weather does n't look promising . Teams : United Arab Emirates ( Playing XI ) : Amjad Ali , Andri Berenger , Krishnachandran Karate , Khurram Khan , Shaiman Anwar , Swapnil Patil ( w ) , Amjad Javed , Mohammad Naveed , Mohammad Tauqir ( c ) , Nasir Aziz , Manjula Guruge West Indies ( Playing XI ) : Dwayne Smith , Johnson Charles , Marlon Samuels , Jonathan Carter , Denesh Ramdin ( w ) , Lendl Simmons , Darren Sammy , Andre Russell , Jason Holder ( c ) , Jerome Taylor , Kemar Roach West Indies have won the toss and have opted to field Holder : " The preparation was excellent. We had a few days off. We have been here for a little while , so it 's all about putting it together today. We are going to field first. Obviously looks a pretty good pitch. We want to get into the UAE batting line-up as quickly as possible. Everything went well in terms of the week 's preparation. It is a must-win for us , we 've to just come in and execute our plans. We 've got one forced change. Unfortunately , Chris Gayle pulled up with a sore back this morning , so Johnson Charles gets his first game. If you look at a replacement for Chris , I think Johnson is ideally fitted for it. He 's one attacking batsman , so we just wish him well today. " Tauqir : " We are very happy , it has been a very enjoyable and learning experience. We were happy that there were some notable performances from our boys also. We would have liked to have bowled first as well , but now we have no choice and we need to bat and bat well today. We have played some good games in this tournament and we would like to end on a high today. We 've got two changes , we 've got Nasir ( Aziz ) in and Manjula ( Guruge ) coming back. " Toss time ! What will Jason Holder do if he wins the toss ? Does he bat first and hope that his batsmen would post in excess of 350-370 to help them register a big win ? Or , does he fancy bowling first and knocking UAE over quickly before going all guns blazing with the bat in the chase ? We 'll get to know shortly as the toss is not too far away. Today is when West Indies will be looking up to Chris Gayle to put his hand up and play a big innings. Can he deliver the goods ? Time will tell ! In their encounter against South Africa , UAE opted to bowl first in slightly overcast conditions. After hitting Hashim Amla on the wrist with a beamer , Mohammad Naveed accounted for him soon with a bouncer to give his side the early breakthrough. With Quinton de Kock and Rilee Rossouw falling in quick succession , the Proteas were under a bit of pressure. However , after a close LBW shout against AB de Villiers went against them , they dropped David Miller and the duo made them pay a heavy penalty. A breezy fifty from Farhaan Behardien then helped South Africa post more than what they looked like getting at one stage. In reply , although not going after the target , the UAE batsmen made the South African bowlers earn for their wickets. Swapnil Patil scored a gutsy fifty before his side was eventually bowled out in the 48th over . Let 's take a look at how both teams fared in their recent match. West Indies played India in Perth in their last match. After opting to bat first , the West Indies top-order miserably as they were reduced to 35/4 inside 10 overs. Captain Jason Holder then recorded a gritty fifty to give his side a decent score. With a bit of assistance from the pitch , the West Indies bowlers began well by removing both Shikhar Dhawan and Rohit Sharma early. Jerome Taylor was the pick of the bowlers as India were put under serious pressure in their run chase. However , they could not remove MS Dhoni as he stayed calm and took India home in the 40th over . Meanwhile , Holder 's counterpart , Mohammad Tauqir , feels that West Indies ' inferior net run rate will put them under a bit more pressure and that it gives his side an opportunity to play freely. " They 're not playing as consistent cricket as they should be and I think they 'll be under pressure of chasing the run rate. I think it gives us an opportunity to play freely and express ourselves either batting or bowling. " Holder also urged his side to be aggressive against UAE : " I think what is important is that whatever eleven we put on the field we just need to be aggressive. Obviously they seem to not like the aggressive stuff , so it 's in our nature to be aggressive and we just need to be aggressive and play aggressive cricket. " Talking ahead of the match , newly appointed West Indies captain Jason Holder said that his side should treat this as a normal game and not think about the weather. " Obviously we just need to win this game. It 's a must-win game for us. Obviously if the weather plays , it 's beyond our control , but we just need to control what we can control , and that 's the game. If we can wrap it up as quickly as possible , that 's a plus for us , but we still need to cover our bases and just go into the game as a normal game and not try to play the weather. " Three teams ( Pakistan , West Indies and Ireland ) are fighting for the third and fourth spots in Pool B to qualify for the quarter-finals. Here are the scenarios : West Indies , with 4 points so far , are two points behind Pakistan and Ireland , who are on 6 points each. West Indies need to win big against UAE and wait for the final match of the group stage , between Ireland and Pakistan. If West Indies win and if Pakistan beat Ireland , West Indies will go through with Pakistan as Ireland have a poor net run rate compared to both teams. If Ireland beat Pakistan , West Indies can go through only if their win over UAE is big enough to edge Pakistan on net run rate . It 's a do-or-die game for West Indies to stay in the race for a place in the quarter-finals. In fact , they not only need to win , but need to win big because of their poor net run rate and also wait for Ireland v Pakistan to know their fate. However , rain threatens to play spoilsport. There are a few showers forecast for later in the day as Cyclone Pam , which is heading towards New Zealand 's north-east , is expected to make its landfall late on Sunday night . Preview : Cloudy with a shower in spots : that 's how the weather in Napier has been predicted for Sunday , a state that can also describe the situation the West Indies are in ahead of their final 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup Pool B game against the United Arab Emirates on Sunday. Outside the top four in the points table currently , a handsome victory over the team still searching for its first win in a World Cup will keep West Indies in the reckoning for a place in the quarter-finals . It 's only after registering a strong victory can they rely on the result between Pakistan and Ireland , the last group game of the World Cup , and hope that Pakistan do them a favour by beating the team who have put them in this situation in the first place . While India and South Africa have already qualified for the knock-outs from group B , Pakistan , Ireland and West Indies are in a three-way battle to occupy the remaining two spots. Pakistan and Ireland both have six points apiece with the former having a slightly better net run rate. West Indies are placed below Ireland with four points , but their NRR is better than that of the William Porterfield-led side. In case West Indies win against UAE and Pakistan prevail against Ireland , both West Indies and Ireland will be tied with six points , but the Caribbean team will progress to the next round as they have a better NRR . If Ireland win against Pakistan and West Indies win against UAE , Pakistan and West Indies will finish with six points apiece but the chances of Pakistan sneaking through are better as their NRR is sightly higher than the Caribbean side. Hence , West Indies will be hoping to win big against UAE , which will better their chances of making it through to the knock-outs even if Pakistan end up on the losing side to Ireland. If either game finishes as a no-result , Pakistan and Ireland will enter the knock-outs . Venue : McLean Park , Napier
