Graphs On behalf of Mani , Raju , Sriram and my co-commentators , Pradeep and Akshay Maanay , this is Sidhant Maheshwari , signing off. Take care folks ! So , we are done and dusted with the group stage and now , it is time for the knockouts. So , mark your calendars and do n't forget to join us for the quarter-finals : Wednesday , March 18 - Sri Lanka vs South Africa , SCG , Sydney Thursday , March 19 - India vs Bangladesh , MCG , Melbourne Friday , March 20 - Australia vs Pakistan , Adelaide Oval , Adelaide Saturday , March 21 - New Zealand vs West Indies , Westpac Stadium , Wellington Let 's have a look at some of the tweets regarding this game : @ mohanstatsman : First time in Cricket World Cup history all four Asian sides are in the Quarter-finals ! # PAKvsIRE # CWC15 @ cricketaakash : The turnaround in Pakistan 's fortunes is incredible after the opening two losses...well done , neighbours. Let 's meet in the semis : ) @ dkmohanty : Sarfraz Ahmed is the 1st Wicket Keeper Batsman to score a world cup 100 for # PAK. In # CWC15 7th 100 by Wicket Keepers. # PAKvsIRE # CWC15 @ G_Rajaraman : The # CWC15 quarterfinals will be SL-SA ( Sydney , March 18 ) , Ind-BD ( Melbourne , 19 ) , Aus-Pak ( Adelaide , 20 ) , NZ-WI ( Wellington , 21 ) . @ dmartyn30 : Well done @ TheRealPCB on beating @ Irelandcricket and qualifying for the Q/F v @ CricketAus .. Ca n't wait huge game @ cricketworldcup # cwc15 Misbah : 'This was a pressure game. Even we do n't have that sort of pressure in the quarter-finals ( laughs ) . Credit should be given to the bowlers , especially the fast bowlers because they really bowled well. It was a slow track at that time , they were not getting that sort of pace and bounce. But , they bowled their heart out. They bowled the opposition out in the latter part of their innings. They got wickets and restricted them to a total which we chased down easily. That was a brilliant knock and a much needed knock. I am happy with the way he ( Sarfraz ) just carried on , he got some good runs in ODIs , he used to get 50-60 runs earlier and then got out. Today , he showed us that he could go on and finish the game. So , I am really happy about him. We got the momentum and the bowling is really doing well , batting is playing a good part now. Ahmed Shehzad and especially , Sarfraz have started to bat well. A few batsmen are in good form , Umar Akmal is in good form. On a day , anything can happen. We have that sort of bowling line-up that could really surprise any team ( when asked if Pakistan can go all the way ) .' Porterfield : 'It was a pretty good pitch , but coming down to the back end , we lost a few wickets and we never got the momentum. Credit to the way they bowled as well. I think the best ever comes when you win ( when asked about if it is his best knock ever ) . It was obviously nice to get a few runs , but disappointing that we did n't get enough as well. Look , we thought that it was a pretty good surface , slightly slower when we got out there than we thought that it actually was. It was a very good pitch , we would have liked to have gotten a few more runs on the board. When you have an extra 40-50 runs on the board , it becomes a different ball game , it becomes slightly harder to chase as well. So , I think we were happy with the way we went about things. The confidence has been high throughout the World Cup and the fans have been fantastic at every venue that we have gone to. It 's great to have the support here and same back home. The messages come from back home as well. So , hopefully , now we will just get more games and we progress from there.' Sarfraz : I am very happy. Waqar Younis told me that no one has scored a century for Pakistan in this World Cup , I am glad that I did it. I think it was very important for us to win the game , it was a do-or-die game for us. The bowlers bowled well , the batsmen did well and even the fielding was good , very happy with the effort. Hopefully , we will continue like this . Sarfraz spoke to Rameez Raja in Urdu. We have transcribed his interview for you . Sarfraz is the Man of the Match for his unbeaten knock of 101 Earlier in the day , Porterfield scored a well paced hundred , his first in World Cups. However , none of the other batsmen showed the application that was needed to tackle the Pakstani bowlers. Most of them got starts , but kept throwing it away. And also in the final 10 overs of the innings , they could manage only 49 runs and lost 5 wickets. That period of the innings was where one feels that they lost the game . Ireland bowlers lacked penetration. The new ball bowlers did n't have any assistance from the wicket. George Dockrell was dealt with quite easily. The only wickets they got were the mistakes made by the Pakistani batsmen. Even the fielding which they pride themselves on was not up to the mark . However , he tried to be too aggressive and played one shot too many and threw his wicket away. Haris Sohail was sold down the river by Sarfraz. After that , Misbah and Sarfraz added another important partnership , with the skipper being the aggressor this time. They were cruising along nicely before Misbah got out hit wicket. Umar Akmal came and was in a hurry to finish the game , but had to play the patience game as Sarfraz was nearing his maiden ODI hundred. The pair dragged the game for a bit , but in the end Sarfraz got to the milestone and Akmal hit the winning runs. Sarfraz became the first Pakistani to score a World Cup hundred since 2007 , Imran Nazir was the last batsman to do it against Zimbabwe . It is a comprehensive win for Pakistan. They have now qualified for the quarter-final and will take on Australia as they are the third placed team in Pool B. The opening pair of Shehzad and Sarfraz started off in a cautious manner. The duo took their time to get a measure of the bowling before playing their shots. They registered the first 100-run stand for Pakistan in this World Cup. Sarfraz once again was the aggressor for Pakistan , but Shehzad quickly got into his elements and brought up his fifty before Sarfraz . It was like watching a Test match in the end. Pakistan delayed the inevitable win for a little too long , especially since Sarfraz was about to reach his hundred. One can understand how much time Pakistan took to finish the game off as Sarfraz reached the score of 90 in the 38th over and only managed to reach his ton in the 46th. The players walk out to exchange handshakes. The Pakistani support staff also walk out and congratulate their centurion . 46.1 Stirling to U Akmal , FOUR , there it is , the confirmation that Pakistan will play Australia in the third quarter-final. Coming back to the ball , it was short and wide outside off , Akmal flat-bats it over mid-on and the ball runs away to the fence Paul Stirling [ 1.0-0-1-0 ] is back into the attack Sarfraz is the first Pakistani wicket-keeper to hit a century in World Cups 45.6 Dockrell to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Sarfraz leans forward and blocks , Sarfraz is returning the favour as he now leaves it for Akmal to hit the winning runs 45.5 Dockrell to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , low full toss and outside off , Sarfraz defends 45.4 Dockrell to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , works this one to mid-wicket 45.3 Dockrell to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , floated up on off , Sarfraz drives it to mid-off 45.2 Dockrell to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , finally , Sarfraz gets to his ton , this is Pakistan 's first century in this World Cup , he does the Sajda after dispatching this ball to the deep mid-wicket fence , he came down the track and hoicked it to the deep mid-wicket fence , he kisses the badge on his helmet as well 45.1 Dockrell to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , comes down the track and it was a full toss from Dockrell , he bunts it down to long-on and the batsmen do n't take the single George Dockrell [ 5.0-0-39-0 ] is back into the attack Dockrell comes into the attack. Can Sarfraz get to his maiden ODI century in this over ? Let 's find out 44.6 J Mooney to U Akmal , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Akmal lifts his bat and lets it go 44.5 J Mooney to U Akmal , no run , length delivery on off , Akmal defends off the front foot 44.4 J Mooney to U Akmal , no run , full again and on off , Akmal defends off the front foot , Akmal will probably play all the balls out this over as well to give Sarfraz the strike for the next over , the hundred is making everyone wait 44.3 J Mooney to U Akmal , no run , fuller in length and angling in on off , Akmal defends it towards mid-wicket The keeper is back for Akmal 44.2 J Mooney to U Akmal , no run , low full toss outside off , Akmal defends it towards short cover , who moves across to his right and collects the ball 44.1 J Mooney to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , length delivery on middle stump line , Sarfraz plays a controlled chip and he can only get a single as the fielder at long-on is quick to run forward and stop the ball 44.1 J Mooney to Sarfraz Ahmed , wide , fuller in length and down the leg-side , wide called by the umpire John Mooney [ 8.0-1-38-0 ] is back into the attack The keeper is up to the stumps for Mooney 43.6 S Thompson to U Akmal , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Akmal defends off the back foot 43.5 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , off-cutter from Thompson well outside off , Sarfraz dabs it down to third man 43.4 S Thompson to U Akmal , 1 run , touch fuller and on leg , Akmal works it to deep square leg and gives Sarfraz the strike 43.4 S Thompson to U Akmal , wide , down the leg-side , Akmal fails to tickle it fine , the keeper tries to put the umpire off with an appeal , umpire Erasmus does n't respond and signals a wide 43.3 S Thompson to U Akmal , no run , length delivery well outside off , Akmal shoulders arms 43.2 S Thompson to U Akmal , no run , on a good length and on off and middle , Akmal presses forward and punches it to mid-on 43.1 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , kneels down and heaves this length delivery from outside off to deep backward square leg , he was coming back for the second , but Akmal was n't even looking at his partner there , Sarfraz is not happy as he thought there was a second available 42.6 K O'Brien to U Akmal , no run , length delivery on off and middle , Akmal defends it back to the bowler off the front foot 42.5 K O'Brien to U Akmal , no run , another slower one on off , Akmal defends off the back foot 42.4 K O'Brien to U Akmal , no run , the slower ball from O'Brien , Akmal watches it all along and defends it 42.3 K O'Brien to U Akmal , FOUR , lovely shot , pitched up and in the zone for the lofted on-drive , Akmal gets well forward and lofts it high and over mid-on for a boundary 42.2 K O'Brien to U Akmal , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Akmal punches it to mid-on for a single 42.1 K O'Brien to U Akmal , no run , length delivery on middle and leg , Akmal defends with his bat in front of his pad 41.6 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , angling in on the pads , Sarfraz works it towards mid-wicket 41.5 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , length delivery just outside off , Sarfraz pushes it back towards the stumps at the non-striker 's end , the bowler tries to get his hand on it , but he ca n't , the ball crashes into the stump and Akmal was aware of the situation and brings his bat back inside the crease 41.5 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , wide , down the leg-side , Sarfraz fails to get it away into the on-side , called a wide 41.4 S Thompson to U Akmal , 1 run , slower short ball from Thompson , Akmal had all the time in the world to rock back and pull it towards mid-wicket , where the fielder dives to his right and gets a hand on it , parries it towards the fielder in the deep , but he saved some runs there 41.3 S Thompson to U Akmal , no run , angling in on off , Akmal bunts it to mid-wicket after shuffling across 41.2 S Thompson to U Akmal , no run , length delivery outside off , Akmal leans forward and punches it into the off-side 41.1 S Thompson to U Akmal , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Akmal hops a little and defends it back to the bowler 40.6 K O'Brien to U Akmal , 1 run , another short one and another pull from Akmal , who drags it to deep mid-wicket , he will keep the strike as the batsmen have to be content with a single this time around 40.5 K O'Brien to U Akmal , FOUR , the Irish bowlers are not learning , they are bowling it short more often than not and are being thrashed , it was short and outside off , Akmal rocks back and pulls it to the deep mid-wicket fence 40.4 K O'Brien to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , banged in short and outside off , Sarfraz pulls it to deep square leg for a single 40.3 K O'Brien to U Akmal , 1 run , back of a length delivery on off , Akmal stays back and wrists it wide of mid-on for a single 40.2 K O'Brien to U Akmal , FOUR , another short delivery from K O'Brien , Akmal pulls it to the left of mid-on , who was a little wide and the ball runs away to the fence 40.1 K O'Brien to U Akmal , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Akmal pushes it to cover Kevin O'Brien [ 8.0-0-34-0 ] is back into the attack 39.6 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , full and wide outside off , Sarfraz drives it to cover-point 39.5 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , touch fuller and on middle , Sarfraz drives it to mid-on , Sarfraz was looking for the single , but his partner sends him back 39.4 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , almost a yorker outside off , Sarfraz squeezes it out to point 39.3 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , back of a length delivery from Thompson , Sarfraz pushes it to mid-on , they think about taking the single , but they decide against it 39.2 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , banged in short and at the batsman , Sarfraz pulls it behind square for a brace 39.1 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Sarfraz hangs back and punches it to cover 38.6 Cusack to U Akmal , no run , does not get fully forward as he blocks this full delivery to the off-side 38.5 Cusack to U Akmal , no run , good length ball around off , Akmal presses it cover after coming forward 38.4 Cusack to U Akmal , no run , fuller and around off , Akmal drives and picks out mid-off 38.3 Cusack to U Akmal , no run , bouncer just outside off , Akmal gets away from the line of the delivery Umar Akmal , right handed bat , comes to the crease 38.2 Cusack to Misbah , out Hit Wkt ! Misbah is gone. Against the run of play , the Pakistani captain drags one back on. It was a back of a length delivery just outside off , Misbah was back in the crease and was trying to run it down to third man , he ends up getting an inside edge that rolls back on the stumps. Oh wait a minute , the replays are out , it was not bowled , in fact Misbah hit the stumps with his right boot. He went too far back. Misbah is disappointed with himself , kicks the turf as he makes his way back to the pavilion. Misbah hit wkt b Cusack 39 ( 46 ) [ 4s-3 6s-2 ] Cusack to Misbah , THATS OUT ! ! Hit Wkt ! ! 38.2 Cusack to Misbah , wide , bouncer down the leg-side , Misbah ducks under it , wide called by the umpire 38.1 Cusack to Misbah , no run , length delivery angling in on off , Misbah defends from the crease 38.1 Cusack to Misbah , no run , length delivery angling in on off , Misbah defends it to the off-side off the back foot 37.6 S Thompson to Misbah , 1 run , short and at the batsman , Misbah swivels and pulls it to deep backward square leg , he will keep the strike 37.5 S Thompson to Misbah , FOUR , hammered ! That 's a super shot from Misbah , there was width on offer for Misbah to free his arms , he waits on the back foot and cuts it fiercely to the deep backward point fence 37.4 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , on a good length and on middle , Sarfraz shuffles across slightly and works it off his pads behind square on the on-side 37.4 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , wide , slower short ball well down the leg-side , Sarfraz has nothing to do with it and leaves it alone 37.3 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Sarfraz goes across slightly and bunts it towards cover 37.2 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , banged in short and at the batsman , Sarfraz pulls it to deep mid-wicket , where the fielder runs across to his left and keeps the batsmen down to a couple 37.1 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Sarfraz stands tall and defends it back to the bowler Stuart Thompson [ 6.0-0-42-1 ] is back into the attack 36.6 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , shuffles across and works this fullish delivery to mid-on , calls for a quick run and gets to the other end in time 36.5 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , short and slightly wide outside off , Sarfraz cuts it up and over backward point intentionally , even though third man ran across and puts in the dive , he ca n't stop the ball from reaching the fence 36.4 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , another one well wide outside off , Sarfraz cuts it square of the wicket , the fielder from cover-point and third man as well went after it , but in the end the ball beats the dive of both the fielders and crashes into the fence 36.3 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , width on offer this time , Sarfraz hangs back and steers it towards square third man region , third man was diner and the batsmen take two before the fielder runs across and stops it 36.2 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , slower short ball outside off , Sarfraz looks to fetch the pull from outside off , but ca n't connect this time either 36.1 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , what happened there ? Sarfraz goes down on one knee and looks to sweep , the ball bounces extra and goes over the bat there , the keeper collects Alex Cusack [ 8.0-1-31-0 ] is back into the attack 35.6 K O'Brien to Misbah , SIX , poor , poor delivery from O'Brien. Nice juicy full toss on middle and leg , Misbah says thank you very much and heaves it over deep square leg for the maximum result 35.5 K O'Brien to Misbah , no run , shortish and outside off , Misbah cuts and finds backward point 35.4 K O'Brien to Misbah , no run , back of a length around off , Misbah guides it towards backward point 35.4 K O'Brien to Misbah , wide , Ireland have overdone the short delivery today , O'Brien goes for the bumper , it is too short and wide given 35.3 K O'Brien to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , dug in short , Sarfraz moves across and pulls it in front of square , he hit that too well and close to the fielder at deep mid-wicket 35.2 K O'Brien to Misbah , 1 run , drags the length back , Misbah opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man 35.1 K O'Brien to Misbah , no run , good length ball on off , Misbah turns it gently to mid-wicket Time for the batting powerplay. . 34.6 J Mooney to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , yes , he can. That is a maiden in the 35th over. Full and on off , Sarfraz push-drives it to mid-on 34.5 J Mooney to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , on a length just outside off , Sarfraz guides it to backward point. That is the fifth dot in a row , can he finish it with a maiden ? 34.4 J Mooney to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , back of a length just outside off , Sarfraz went for the steer to third man , does n't make contact , ball beats the outside edge 34.3 J Mooney to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , full and on off , Sarfraz middles the on-drive , picks out the mid-on fielder 34.2 J Mooney to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , good length ball on off and middle , Sarfraz works it to mid-wicket , ca n't beat the fielder there 34.1 J Mooney to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , full and straightens a touch , Sarfraz reaches out and looks to drive , the ball beats the outside edge. Good take by Wilson standing up to the stumps The drinks are on the field. Pakistan are cruising along. There was a slight hiccup when Shehzad and Sohail went in quick succession. But , this pair has batted sensibly and kept the scoreboard ticking. Unless there is a brainfade , Pakistan must win this with ease . 33.6 K O'Brien to Misbah , no run , bouncer on off , Misbah sways away from the line of the delivery 33.5 K O'Brien to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , again , short , Sarfraz glides it with an horizontal bat to third man 33.4 K O'Brien to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , slower short ball , Sarfraz thought about the ramp , but decided against it 33.3 K O'Brien to Misbah , 1 run , holds the length back , Misbah opens the bat face and steers it to third man 33.2 K O'Brien to Misbah , no run , back of a length on off , Misbah gets right behind the line and defends 33.1 K O'Brien to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , starts with a short one , Sarfraz swivels across and pulls it to deep square leg Kevin O'Brien [ 6.0-0-22-0 ] is back into the attack 32.6 J Mooney to Misbah , no run , back of a length on off , Misbah shuffles across and turns it towards mid-wicket 32.5 J Mooney to Misbah , FOUR , lovely shot ! Mooney provided the width alright , but it still needed to be put away , Misbah reaches out and slices the drive to the right of backward point , the sweeper had no chance of stopping that 32.4 J Mooney to Misbah , no run , fullish and close to off , Misbah comes forward and defends it to mid-on 32.3 J Mooney to Misbah , no run , back of a length on off , Misbah shuffles across and knocks it to short mid-wicket 32.2 J Mooney to Misbah , no run , pitched up outside off , Misbah pushes it to cover , calls " wait " for the single 32.2 J Mooney to Sarfraz Ahmed , 4 wides , and what does Mooney do , slips it down leg , Sarfraz has nothing to do with it , Wilson was blinded by the batsman , bonus runs for Pakistan Wilson is up to the stumps now. . 32.1 J Mooney to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , Sarfraz walks down the pitch , almost makes it into a yorker , squeezed out to mid-off John Mooney [ 6.0-0-30-0 ] is back into the attack 31.6 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , fuller and just outside off , Sarfraz push-drives it to the left of mid-off , calls for a sharp run 31.5 Cusack to Misbah , 1 run , straying onto the pads , Misbah glances it behind square on the leg-side 31.4 Cusack to Misbah , no run , on a length just outside off , Misbah presses forward and dabs it to backward point 31.3 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , was that a drop ? Looks like it carried to Dockrell. Full and angling in on off , Sarfraz leans forward , uses the angle and flicks it in the air to mid-wicket , the ball bounced just in front of the fielder , Dockrell dives and makes a half stop 31.2 Cusack to Misbah , 1 run , short delivery , Misbah is waiting for it , rolls his wrists it and pulls it to deep backward square leg 31.1 Cusack to Misbah , no run , sliding onto leg-stump , Misbah misses out on the flick , wears it high on the pad , ball rolls to the left of the keeper 30.6 Dockrell to Misbah , 1 run , Misbah was shaping up to play the reverse sweep , saw that the length was not there , pulled it behind square leg , for a single 30.5 Dockrell to Misbah , no run , fired in on middle and leg , Misbah flicks and finds short mid-wicket 30.4 Dockrell to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , nice loopy delivery , Sarfraz reaches out and eases it to sweeper cover 30.3 Dockrell to Misbah , 1 run , once again goes down on one knee , but this time it is the reverse sweep to short third man 30.2 Dockrell to Misbah , SIX , terrific shot ! Misbah not afraid to play his shots today. This was nicely tossed up on off , he kneels down and slog sweeps it over long-on , pings the ad-boards on the full 30.1 Dockrell to Misbah , no run , quicker and on the stumps , Misbah taps it to the on-side 29.6 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , short of length , Sarfraz walks forward and across , glances it fine and sprints back for the second. That was good aggressive running from the duo 29.6 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , wide , lifter which is too short , called a wide 29.5 Cusack to Misbah , 1 run , banged in halfway down the turf , Misbah is not surprised by it this time , he pulls it in the air over mid-wicket , there is a fielder in the deep though 29.4 Cusack to Misbah , no run , good length ball around off , Misbah bunts it towards cover off the back foot 29.3 Cusack to Misbah , no run , turns it gently to short mid-wicket , calls for " wait " 29.2 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , back of a length on off , Sarfraz shuffles across and nurdles it to backward square leg 29.1 Cusack to Misbah , 1 run , Cusack starts the new spell with the perfume ball as per Damien Fleming. Short delivery at the batsman , Misbah swivels across and toe-ends the pull on the helmet grill , it rolls to the on-side and Sarfraz calls for the quick single Alex Cusack [ 6.0-1-21-0 ] is back into the attack 28.6 Dockrell to Misbah , 1 run , low full toss , Misbah toe-ends the drive to long-off 28.5 Dockrell to Misbah , no run , lunges forward in defence 28.4 Dockrell to Misbah , no run , presses forward and blocks it to short cover 28.3 Dockrell to Misbah , FOUR , sensible cricket from Misbah , he saw that the fielders were inside the ring and took the challenge on , clears his front leg and lofts it over mid-on , the ball bounces a couple of times before reaching the fence 28.2 Dockrell to Misbah , 2 runs , drops it short , Misbah goes back and across , punches it past the diving backward point fielder for a brace 28.1 Dockrell to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , floated up on off , Sarfraz drives it to long-on A silly mid-off in place. . 27.6 S Thompson to Misbah , no run , on a length just outside off , Misbah bunts it off the front foot to point 27.5 S Thompson to Misbah , no run , full and on off , Misbah walks forward and flicks it to mid-wicket , straight to the fielder 27.4 S Thompson to Misbah , no run , bouncer on middle , Misbah gets inside the line and lets it go through to Wilson , umpire calls it one for the over 27.3 S Thompson to Misbah , no run , repeat of the previous delivery , Misbah is solid in his forward defence 27.2 S Thompson to Misbah , no run , good length ball around off , Misbah presses it to cover after coming forward 27.1 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , 3 runs , Ireland seem to have got their field wrong. There are only two fielders inside the ring on the off-side , one at point and the other at widish mid-off. Fuller and just outside off , Sarfraz drives it to the right of mid-off , risk free shot for three. This is also his highest score in ODIs 26.6 Dockrell to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , dabs it to backward point , the fielder lets go off a wayward throw , concedes an extra run 26.5 Dockrell to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , knocks it towards point , he once again takes off for the single before retrieving back 26.4 Dockrell to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , fired down the leg-side , Sarfraz watches the ball go past him , then looks at the umpire for a wide , but no signal from umpire Palliyaguru , he thought there was a brush off the pad 26.3 Dockrell to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , Sarfraz plays an extended forward defence to the right of Dockrell 26.2 Dockrell to Misbah , 1 run , tossed up on off , Misbah drives it to long-off , for a single 26.1 Dockrell to Misbah , no run , flighted on off , Misbah pushes it back to the bowler 25.6 S Thompson to Misbah , 1 run , slight miscommunication , but no harm done. Misbah turns it to square leg and was halfway down the wicket , Sarfraz was not interested in the single initially , but went through after the fielder misfielded 25.5 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , 3 runs , overpitched up just outside off , Sarfraz drives it to the right of mid-off , who is slightly square. The ball does not have enough fuel to reach the fence 25.4 S Thompson to Misbah , 1 run , back of a length on off , Misbah shuffles across and works it square of the wicket on the leg-side 25.3 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , short of length on off , Sarfraz rides the bounce and taps it to the vacant cover region A short mid-wicket and a mid-wicket in place now. . 25.2 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , bumper on leg-stump , Sarfraz ducks under it and eludes it comfortably 25.1 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , full and on off , Sarfraz leans forward and flicks it past the diving mid-wicket fielder Stuart Thompson [ 4.0-0-31-1 ] is back into the attack 24.6 Dockrell to Misbah , no run , floated up close to off , Misbah presses forward and blocks 24.5 Dockrell to Misbah , no run , slower through the air , Misbah turns it gently towards short mid-wicket , he wanted the run , but Sarfraz is loud in his call this time 24.4 Dockrell to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , driven down to long-off , for a single Misbah-ul-Haq , right handed bat , comes to the crease 24.3 Dockrell to Sarfraz Ahmed , out Sohail Run Out ! ! Sohail is livid with Sarfraz. He was sold down the river. Pushed through from round the wicket , Sarfraz nurdles it to backward square , takes a few steps down before saying no , Sohail was almost at the striker 's end , he tried to get back , but in vain. Balbirnie collects the ball and throws it to Dockrell , who does the rest. Sohail run out ( Balbirnie/Dockrell ) 3 ( 7 ) Dockrell to Sarfraz Ahmed , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Sohail has been run-out . 24.2 Dockrell to Sohail , 1 run , tossed up on off , Sohail punches it to the left of Dockrell , who does not bend down in time to stop the ball 24.1 Dockrell to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , flighted on off , Sarfraz eases it to long-on George Dockrell [ 1.0-0-17-0 ] is back into the attack 23.6 Stirling to Sohail , no run , drives it back to the bowler and end of a tidy over from Stirling 23.5 Stirling to Sohail , no run , quicker from Stirling , Sohail skips out of the crease and misses the nudge through the on-side , is rapped on the pads , but the ball was sneaking down leg , Sarfraz wanted the run but Sohail sends him back 23.4 Stirling to Sohail , no run , slider around off , Sohail punches it to cover 23.3 Stirling to Sohail , no run , comes down the track and yorks himself , squeezes it to the left of the bowler , Stirling dives and stops the ball 23.2 Stirling to Sohail , no run , push-drives it back to the bowler A slip in place for Sohail 23.1 Stirling to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , tossed up on off , Sarfraz drives it to long-on Paul Stirling , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 22.6 S Thompson to Sohail , 2 runs , Thompson goes round the wicket , slants it in on middle , Sohail whips it in front of square and opens his account with a brace 22.5 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , fuller and angling in , Sarfraz wrists it to the right of mid-on and calls for a quick single Haris Sohail , left handed bat , comes to the crease 22.4 S Thompson to Ahmed Shehzad , out Caught by Ed Joyce ! ! Shehzad has thrown it away. A needless shot from the Pakistani opener. He is not happy with himself as he walks back to the pavilion. Thompson bangs it in short , Shehzad backs away and top-edges the pull towards mid-on , Ed Joyce runs back and takes it over his right shoulder. That was a good take and he made it look easy. Ahmed Shehzad c Ed Joyce b S Thompson 63 ( 71 ) [ 4s-7 ] S Thompson to Ahmed Shehzad , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 22.3 S Thompson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller and around off , Shehzad drives it straight back at the bowler 22.2 S Thompson to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , fabulous shot ! Back of a length delivery , Shehzad advances down the wicket , converts it into a length delivery and lifts it over mid-on , the ball races away to the fence 22.1 S Thompson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , pitched up , Shehzad drives and finds mid-off 21.6 K O'Brien to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , bangs it in short , Sarfraz forehands the pull shot to mid-wicket , he is disappointed that he did n't get anything for that shot 21.5 K O'Brien to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , fullish and just outside off , Sarfraz drives it to mid-off , on the bounce to the fielder 21.4 K O'Brien to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , short and on off , Shehzad swivels and pulls it to deep mid-wicket , he wanted two but Sarfraz is not interested , good decision in the end 21.3 K O'Brien to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length around off , Shehzad knocks it to the off-side , wants the single but Sarfraz says no as Porterfield swoops in on the ball 21.2 K O'Brien to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , bumper on off , Shehzad arches back and gets down , lets it go over him 21.1 K O'Brien to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Porterfield stops a certain boundary , O'Brien bowls a half tracker outside off , Shehzad slaps it hard and to the left of backward point , Porterfield sticks his hand out and stops the ball 20.6 S Thompson to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , back of a length on off , nurdled away to deep square leg 20.5 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , 3 runs , short and outside off , Sarfraz cuts it over backward point , Niall runs across from third man , tumbles and flicks it to Cusack who was running across from sweeper cover. The batsmen have enough time to come back for the third 20.4 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , back of a length on the fourth stump line , Sarfraz went for the steer to third man , it was very close to the body and the extra bounce also undid his attempt 20.3 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , full and homing in on off , Sarfraz punches it straight to mid-on 20.2 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , back of a length close to off , Sarfraz rides the bounce and dabs it to backward point 20.1 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , good length ball around off , Sarfraz drives with an open bat face to point , where the fielder dives to his right to stop the ball 19.6 K O'Brien to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , now Sarfraz reaches his fifty , second in ODIs. He waves his bat around to the crowd and Shehzad walks up and shakes his hand. Trifle short in length , steered down to third man 19.5 K O'Brien to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , digs it in midway down the wicket , Shehzad rolls his wrists and pulls it in front of square , the fielder does well to keep it to a single 19.4 K O'Brien to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , shortens the length close to off , Shehzad shuffles across and knocks it to short mid-wicket 19.3 K O'Brien to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length around off , Shehzad gets right behind the line and defends 19.2 K O'Brien to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , poor effort from Mooney. Short and plenty of room , Shehzad frees his arms and slaps it square of the wicket , Mooney runs to his left from sweeper cover , overruns the ball , gets a hand and makes a half stop , but the ball rolls back to the rope , he still tries to stop it with his boot , but in vain 19.1 K O'Brien to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short delivery outside off , Shehzad lets it go through to Wilson , umpire Erasmus signals one for the over 18.6 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , too full and outside off , Sarfraz reaches out and square drives it behind point , Niall tides up from third running to his right 18.5 S Thompson to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , good length ball on off , Shehzad walks across and clips it to the right of mid-wicket 18.4 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , short of length on off , Sarfraz shuffles across and nurdles it behind square on the leg-side 18.3 S Thompson to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , good length ball on off , Shehzad leans forward and nudges it to mid-wicket 18.2 S Thompson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short and outside off , Shehzad cracks the cut to backward point. If he had hit that either side of the fielder , he would have picked up four 18.1 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , first 100-run opening stand for Pakistan in this World Cup. Sarfraz walks up to Shehzad and congratulates him. Full delivery outside off , Sarfraz drives it to sweeper cover Stuart Thompson [ 1.0-0-14-0 ] is back into the attack 17.6 K O'Brien to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller and on off , Shehzad works it to mid-on , straight to the fielder 17.5 K O'Brien to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , bumper on off , Shehzad sits under it and sways away from the line of the delivery 17.4 K O'Brien to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , drops it to the right of backward point and sets off immediately , Shehzad also responds and they make it easily 17.3 K O'Brien to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , banged in halfway down the wicket , Sarfraz pulls it wide of mid-wicket , good enough for a couple 17.2 K O'Brien to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , good length ball on off , Sarfraz taps it to backward point , wanted the run but Shehzad says " wait " 17.1 K O'Brien to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , slower short ball , Sarfraz went for the ramp shot to third man , but ca n't make the required connection Time for the first drinks break. Pakistan are on track to make it to the quarter-final. The duo have batted exceptionally well and have registered the highest opening partnership for Pakistan in this World Cup. Ireland seem to be going through the motions as there is no spring in their steps and a catch was put down. They will have to change it quickly , if they want to win this game . 16.6 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , off-speed delivery , Sarfraz runs it down to third man , for a single and will retain strike 16.5 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , too full and on off , Sarfraz squeezes the drive to mid-off 16.4 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , full and on off , Sarfraz push-drives it to silly mid-on 16.3 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , fraction short and just outside off , Sarfraz ca n't connect with the cut 16.2 Cusack to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , Shehzad records his 12th ODI fifty , second in this World Cup. The crowd are up on their feet to applaud the effort. Full delivery on leg-stump , Shehzad glances it to fine leg and reaches the landmark 16.1 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , angling into middle , Sarfraz moves across and nurdles it to backward square leg 15.6 K O'Brien to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , drifts onto middle and leg , Sarfraz whips it to deep backward square leg , shouts " no " for the second 15.5 K O'Brien to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , short of length on off , Sarfraz shuffles across and tucks it behind square , he called for two immediately and gets it easily in the end 15.4 K O'Brien to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , dropped ! Wilson puts down a straightforward catch. O'Brien is not happy. He turns back and walks to his mark. Back of a length , holds its line , Sarfraz looks to run it down to third man , gets an outside edge , Wilson tried to grab it , but ended up spilling it 15.3 K O'Brien to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , short delivery , Sarfraz was looking to ramp over the keeper , but sees that the ball is too high and lets it go. Good take by Wilson standing up to the stumps 15.2 K O'Brien to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , width on offer , Shehzad slashes it to third man 15.1 K O'Brien to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full and on off , driven back to the bowler , who does a mock throw at the batsman 14.6 Cusack to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , short of length and well wide of off , Shehzad glides it to third man and keeps strike 14.5 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , drops it short and outside off , Sarfraz cuts it to square third man 14.4 Cusack to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , good length ball and shapes back in , Shehzad brings his bat down at an angle , the ball squirts off the inside edge to fine leg 14.3 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , short of length around off , Sarfraz waits for the ball to arrive and runs it down to third man 14.2 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , takes the pace off the ball , Sarfraz reads it well and defends it in front of cover. Signals to Shehzad that it was the off-cutter 14.1 Cusack to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , back of a length around off , Shehzad steers it to third man , for a single Alex Cusack [ 4.0-1-13-0 ] is back into the attack 13.6 K O'Brien to Ahmed Shehzad , 3 runs , again , O'Brien goes straight and on the stumps , Shehzad whips it through mid-wicket , a long chase for Niall and he makes sure that he pulls the ball in before the rope 13.5 K O'Brien to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller and on the fourth stump line , Shehzad drives it to mid-off 13.4 K O'Brien to Sarfraz Ahmed , 3 runs , tad too straight and Sarfraz is onto it in a flash. He leans forward and punches it between mid-wicket and mid-on , the elder O'Brien gives chase and hauls it in just before the rope 13.3 K O'Brien to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , back of a length around off , Sarfraz pulls it to mid-on , he did n't time it as well 13.2 K O'Brien to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , on the off-stump , Sarfraz dabs it to backward point 13.1 K O'Brien to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , wicket-to-wicket from O'Brien , Sarfraz presses forward and defends to the right of the bowler 12.6 J Mooney to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , good length ball outside off , Shehzad leans into the drive and laces it through cover , the fielder gives chase and keeps the batsmen down to two 12.5 J Mooney to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller and on off , Shehzad drives it on the bounce to Kevin O'Brien at silly mid-on. In fact , it was the slower delivery from Mooney and Shehzad checked his shot 12.4 J Mooney to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length just outside off , Shehzad punches and finds cover , either side and that would have been another boundary 12.3 J Mooney to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , short of length on off , Sarfraz gets inside the line and nurdles it to square leg 12.2 J Mooney to Ahmed Shehzad , 3 runs , on a length just outside off , Shehzad drives on-the-up and caresses the drive past the diving cover fielder , the ball slows up near the rope and the batsmen come back for three 12.1 J Mooney to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Shehzad almost picked the man out. Full and angled in , Shehzad punches it uppishly , the ball lands inches short of Kevin O'Brien , who has been stationed there A silly mid-on in place.. . 11.6 K O'Brien to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , fullish from O'Brien , Sarfraz takes it from off-stump and flicks it straight to mid-wicket , that was a well timed shot for no run 11.5 K O'Brien to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , on a length close to off , Sarfraz dabs it in front of backward point 11.4 K O'Brien to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , too full and on off , Shehzad whips it towards mid-on , Niall O'Brien dives and saves some runs for the team 11.3 K O'Brien to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , wrists it to mid-on , he shuffled across and took it from the off-stump line 11.2 K O'Brien to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tight from Kevin O'Brien , good length ball on off , Shehzad presses forward and blocks to the right of the bowler 11.1 K O'Brien to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Sarfraz cuts it behind point , square third man tidies up Kevin O'Brien , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 10.6 J Mooney to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full and slanting in , Shehzad uses the angle and drives it to mid-on , picks out the fielder there 10.5 J Mooney to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , yorker close to off , Shehzad fails to squeeze it out , Wilson does well to stop it 10.4 J Mooney to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length on off , Shehzad punches it to mid-on 10.3 J Mooney to Sarfraz Ahmed , 3 runs , pitched up on off , Sarfraz presents the straightest of bats and plays the on-drive to the left of mid-on , did n't have enough to collect a boundary 10.2 J Mooney to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , was that a chance ? Yes , but it was wide of the fielder. Full and outside off , Sarfraz looks to dig it out , the ball takes the outside edge , deflects off the keeper 's pads , who is standing up to the stumps. Stirling was at wide slip and the ball between to the left of him 10.1 J Mooney to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , low full toss on off , Sarfraz pushes it to mid-on , should have put it away 9.6 Dockrell to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , 17 from the over , Shehzad comes down the track , takes the ball on the full and whips it past mid-on for another boundary. Pakistan are flying here 9.5 Dockrell to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , poor ball from Dockrell , slides one short and wide outside off , Shehzad cuts it square on the off-side for a boundary 9.4 Dockrell to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , this one is given more air and well outside off , mistimed drive towards cover 9.3 Dockrell to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , tossed up and just outside off , Sarfraz makes room and cuts it to the left of point for a single 9.2 Dockrell to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , Dockrell drops one short now , Sarfraz rocks back and pulls it wide of mid-on , no protection in the deep and it 's another boundary 9.1 Dockrell to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , Sarfraz takes the attack to the spinner first ball with the sweep , this was tossed up and well outside off , he rolls his wrists over the sweep and gets it away behind square on the on-side for a boundary George Dockrell , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 8.6 J Mooney to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , cracked straight to the fielder at short cover 8.5 J Mooney to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Shehzad presses forward and defends it 8.4 J Mooney to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , too straight from Mooney , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a couple of runs 8.3 J Mooney to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , short and wide from Mooney , Shehzad looks to cut and gets a top-edge , the third man was square , he races behind the ball , dives and stops it , poor running from the two batsmen , they are happy with a brace 8.2 J Mooney to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven straight to the fielder at mid-off 8.1 J Mooney to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , short of a length and on Shehzad 's pads , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a brace John Mooney [ 3.0-0-13-0 ] is back into the attack 7.6 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , 14 from Thompson 's first over , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Sarfraz plays with an open face and guides it square behind point for a brace 7.5 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , this is a poor over so far from Thompson , wide half-volley , Sarfraz reaches out and cracks it square past point , no need to run for those 7.4 S Thompson to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , too straight from Thompson , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a single 7.3 S Thompson to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , Thompson overcompensates and bowls one full and on Shehzad 's pads , whipped away past mid-wicket for a couple of runs 7.2 S Thompson to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , that 's a poor ball , short and wide outside off , slapped away in front of square , no need to run for those 7.1 S Thompson to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , short and on the stumps , pulled away behind square on the on-side for a single Stuart Thompson , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 6.6 Cusack to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , nicely played by Shehzad , tad fuller and just outside off , he leans forward , presents the full face of the bat and drives it to the left of mid-on , the timing is sweet and the ball races away to the fence 6.5 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , Sarfraz was shaping up for the sweep , Cusack fires it full and wider outside off , he adjusts , opens the face of the bat and runs it behind point for a single 6.4 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Sarfraz closes the face of the bat and drives it towards mid-on 6.3 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , blocked towards cover 6.2 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , on a good length and just outside off , driven back towards the bowler 6.1 Cusack to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , full and well outside off , punched to the left of mid-off for a single 5.6 J Mooney to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and just outside off , driven back past the bowler. Mooney ca n't stop it , two men give chase and keep the batsmen down to a couple of runs 5.5 J Mooney to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Shehzad was pushing from the crease and gets an inside edge , in front of square leg for a single 5.4 J Mooney to Sarfraz Ahmed , byes , 1 run , nicely bowled by Mooney , on a good length and just outside off , nipped back in slighly , draws Sarfraz forward and beats him on the outside edge , Wilson ca n't gather it cleanly and allows a single 5.3 J Mooney to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , on a length and on the stumps , Sarfraz shuffles across and works it towards the on-side 5.2 J Mooney to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , tad fuller and coming back with the angle , worked wide of mid-on for a single 5.1 J Mooney to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Shehzad prods forward and blocks 4.6 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , tad fuller and well outside off , driven straight to the fielder at mid-off 4.5 Cusack to Ahmed Shehzad , 3 runs , much better from Shehzad , leans into a length ball and caresses it past cover , two fielders give chase and keep the batsmen down to three runs 4.4 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , width on offer from Cusack , steered away towards third man for a single 4.3 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , full and angling into Sarfraz , clipped towards mid-wicket 4.2 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Sarfraz presses half-forward and blocks 4.1 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , short of a length and on off , Sarfraz gets behind the line and defends it 4.1 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , wide , Cusack slips one down leg-side , wide called 3.6 J Mooney to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , Shehzad breaks the shackles , poor ball from Mooney , short and well outside off , slapped away past point and into the fence 3.5 J Mooney to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Mooney shortens his length on off , Shehzad presses across and nudges it towards short mid-wicket 3.4 J Mooney to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Shehzad stays back and punches it towards short cover 3.3 J Mooney to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed away towards third man for a single 3.2 J Mooney to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , fuller length delivery and angling back into Sarfraz , driven to the left of mid-on 3.2 J Mooney to Sarfraz Ahmed , wide , Mooney slips one down leg-side , given as a wide. Wilson moved across quickly and made sure that there were no bonus runs 3.1 J Mooney to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , full and wider outside off , Sarfraz slices the drive towards point 2.6 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , leg byes , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on Sarfraz 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away off the pads behind square 2.5 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , Cusack shortens his length outside off , Sarfraz defends with an angled bat , gets an inside edge onto the pads 2.4 Cusack to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , driven past the bowler and to the right of mid-off for a single 2.3 Cusack to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , punched straight to the fielder at cover-point The keeper is back in his original position for Shehzad 2.2 Cusack to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full and shaping back into Shehzad , tucked towards mid-wicket 2.1 Cusack to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on Sarfraz 's pads , nudged away behind square for a single The keeper is up to the stumps now 1.6 J Mooney to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Mooney comes from wide of the crease and angles one across Shehzad , dabbed towards cover 1.5 J Mooney to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Mooney shortens his length outside off , Shehzad prods across and defends it 1.4 J Mooney to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Shehzad presses forward and defends it 1.3 J Mooney to Sarfraz Ahmed , 3 runs , nicely done by Sarfraz , on a good length and just outside off , Ahmed clips it in front of square on the on-side , runs hard and gets back for the third run 1.2 J Mooney to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , tad fuller and a hint of wobble in the air , Sarfraz covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go Sarfraz Ahmed is batting well outside the crease , to cover for the movement 1.1 J Mooney to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , on a good length and well outside off , pushed towards cover John Mooney , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Cusack to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , excellent start from Cusack , a maiden over , fuller length delivery and just outside off , punched back towards the bowler 0.5 Cusack to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , Shehzad swivels across and works it towards mid-wicket 0.4 Cusack to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Cusack keeps it full and just outside off , Shehzad presses forward and drives it back towards the bowler Some problems near the sightscreen. A kid was merrily sitting besides it , has to be moved across to the seats 0.3 Cusack to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Shehzad shuffles across and drives it towards mid-on 0.2 Cusack to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full and well outside off , Shehzad leans into the drive and finds the man at point 0.1 Cusack to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Shehzad gets forward and drives it straight to the fielder at cover-point Ahmed Shehzad and Sarfraz Ahmed are at the crease. Ahmed Shehzad is on strike. Cusack will open the attack Two slips in place for Cusack. . Welcome back.. Can Pakistan chase down 238 ? Or will Ireland do a repeat of 2007 and bundle Pakistan out of the tournament ? A Q/F spot is up for grabs for both teams. . The Pakistanis bowled decent lines and lengths , but they dropped way too many chances. If they had taken those chances , the Irish innings would have ended prematurely. Riaz ended with 3 wickets , while Rahat Ali and Sohail Khan picked up 2 wickets each. They were well supported by Adil and Haris Sohail , who also took a wicket each. It should be an interesting run-chase. Let 's see how the Pakistanis fare when they come out to bat. Join us in a short while to find out . Meanwhile , Porterfield got to his 7th ODI century and his first of the World Cups , but he also perished while trying to accelerate during the batting powerplay. Ireland though failed to get going as they kept losing wickets. From 182/4 in the 39th over , Ireland slipped to 216/8 in the 48th over. In the end , they were bowled out for 237 . Niall O'Brien then came out to support his captain. He got off to a good start as he was on 12 off just 9 balls , but he threw it away as well , becoming Rahat Ali 's first victim of the game. Seeing wickets fall at the other end , Porterfield went into a shell of sorts and was trying to hold one end up , instead of playing his free flowing shots. Balbirnie and Wilson also got off to starts , but threw it away when Ireland were looking to up the ante . Ireland got off to a poor start , with Stirling being adjudged lbw in the fourth over itself. Since then , Porterfield looked to give some impetus to the Irish batting as he played a few good shots. Joyce gave him good company for some time , but that was also because of the fact that he was dropped on 5. However , he failed to cash in on the reprieve and eventually got out for 11 . 49.6 Riaz to Dockrell , out Dockrell Run Out ! ! Ireland have been bowled out off the final ball of the innings. The duo tried to steal a bye , but the Pakistanis were alert to the situation. It was back of a length and slanted across the right-hander , Dockrell swings hard and misses , Sarfraz throws the ball to Riaz , who hits the timber at the bowler 's end to catch Dockrell short of the crease. Dockrell run out ( Sarfraz Ahmed/Riaz ) 11 ( 8 ) [ 6s-1 ] Riaz to Dockrell , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! The third umpire is called to check for a run-out. Dockrell is the man in question. Looks like he is short of his ground. Yes , he is and OUT flashes on the giant screen . 49.5 Riaz to Dockrell , no run , short delivery on the stumps , Dockrell shuffles across and fails to connect with the pull 49.4 Riaz to Dockrell , SIX , monster hit ! Misbah sees it sailing over him and into the crowd. It was a length delivery , Dockrell shimmies down the wicket after giving himself room , swings it hard and mows it over deep mid-wicket for a maximum 49.3 Riaz to Cusack , 1 run , too full and on off , Cusack digs out the drive to mid-off and hands the strike back to Dockrell Alex Cusack , right handed bat , comes to the crease 49.2 Riaz to J Mooney , out Caught by U Akmal ! ! Akmal seems to be catching everything once he has taken off the gloves. It is his fourth catch of the innings. Length delivery around off , Mooney gets his front leg out of the way and heaves it to mid-wicket , did n't get the elevation and picks out the fielder. It was bowled at 150kph. J Mooney c U Akmal b Riaz 13 ( 19 ) [ 4s-1 ] Riaz to J Mooney , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 49.1 Riaz to Dockrell , 1 run , short of length around off , Dockrell punches it to the right of point 48.6 Sohail Khan to J Mooney , no run , angled across the left-hander , Mooney goes for the old fashioned slog , does n't make contact 48.5 Sohail Khan to J Mooney , no run , that would have hurt. Mooney walks away in pain and the bowler walks up to him and checks if he is fine. A low full toss around off , Mooney shuffles across , looks to scoop it over short fine , instead hits it straight onto his chin. That hit him flush and would have stung 48.4 Sohail Khan to J Mooney , 2 runs , change of pace outside off , Mooney cuts it square of the wicket , comes back for the second before the fielder from sweeper hunts the ball down 48.3 Sohail Khan to J Mooney , FOUR , Sohail Khan misses he yorker and Mooney makes him pay. Low full toss just outside off , Mooney backs away and slices it over backward point , Shehzad leaps up but does n't reach it. The bottom hand came off as he played that 48.2 Sohail Khan to Dockrell , 1 run , low full toss around off , Dockrell squeezes it square of the wicket on the off-side 48.1 Sohail Khan to J Mooney , 1 run , toe-crushing yorker , Sohail Khan went up for an lbw appeal , but umpire Erasmus just moved away and gave it as runs. It was on the stumps , Mooney jams it to the right of the keeper. The bowler thought it was boot first , but replays confirm that it came off the bat 47.6 Riaz to Dockrell , no run , bumper around off , Dockrell sways away and lets it pass. Looks at the umpire who does n't signal anything 47.5 Riaz to Dockrell , 2 runs , angled across the batsman , Dockrell runs it down to third man , the ball did n't have pace and that allowed the batsmen to come back for the second 47.4 Riaz to J Mooney , 1 run , leg-cutter outside off , Mooney makes room and slaps it to sweeper cover 47.3 Riaz to Dockrell , 1 run , shortens the length around off , Dockrell steers it , waits for the ball to go past the diving backward point fielder before going through for the single 47.2 Riaz to J Mooney , 1 run , full and outside off , Mooney throws the kitchen sink at it , the ball flies off the outside edge to third man George Dockrell , right handed bat , comes to the crease 47.1 Riaz to K O'Brien , out Caught by Maqsood ! ! The drop does n't cost much as O'Brien goes the very next ball. The umpire checks for the no-ball , but Riaz is fine on that account. It was a back of a length delivery , O'Brien goes for the hoick towards cow corner , gets it high on the bat and balloons it to mid-wicket , where Maqsood takes it comfortably. K O'Brien c Maqsood b Riaz 8 ( 16 ) [ 4s-1 ] Riaz to K O'Brien , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 46.6 Sohail Khan to K O'Brien , 1 run , dropped ! This is some sloppy work towards the end from the Pakistani players. Dug in midway down the wicket , O'Brien moves away to the leg-side and pulls it to deep square leg , Ehsan Adil does n't judge it properly , looks to take the low catch but ends up grassing it. He should have moved forward and taken it easily as the ball was in the air for a long time 46.5 Sohail Khan to K O'Brien , no run , seemed like the slower short ball , but the speed gun shows 139.6kph , O'Brien was way too early into the pull , the ball goes through to Sarfraz 46.4 Sohail Khan to K O'Brien , no run , full and on off , O'Brien clears his front leg and mishits the heave to mid-wicket 46.3 Sohail Khan to K O'Brien , FOUR , that is a top shot ! It was not very far away from being a yorker , O'Brien stays on leg-stump and drills it to the left of mid-off , even though it came off the bottom part , the ball had enough to reach the fence 46.2 Sohail Khan to K O'Brien , no run , follows the batsman who was backing away , O'Brien jams the low full toss to short cover , no chance for a run 46.1 Sohail Khan to J Mooney , 1 run , too full , almost a yorker , Mooney squeezes the drive to mid-off and calls for the single immediately 45.6 Riaz to K O'Brien , no run , bumper on leg-stump , O'Brien ducks under it and evades it comfortably 45.5 Riaz to J Mooney , 1 run , excellent variations from Riaz , leg-cutter around off , Mooney inside edges it onto the boot , the ball rolls down the wicket , Riaz runs forward and looks to kick it onto the stumps , misses and O'Brien makes it in 45.4 Riaz to J Mooney , no run , yorker on off , Mooney jams it out to short cover. Four dots in a row 45.3 Riaz to J Mooney , no run , short and just outside off , Mooney makes room and looks to slash it over point , is nowhere close to the ball 45.2 Riaz to J Mooney , no run , dropped ! The cross seam delivery from Riaz , holds up on the pitch , Mooney is early into the shot , checks it back to the right of the bowler , Riaz sticks his hand out and tries to grab it , but just could n't hang on 45.1 Riaz to J Mooney , no run , short of length on off , Mooney stands up and bunts it to cover Wahab Riaz [ 7.0-0-40-1 ] is back into the attack 44.6 Sohail Khan to K O'Brien , no run , curling into the batsman , O'Brien clips it off the inside half to mid-wicket , Mooney wanted the single but is sent back , makes it in before the throw comes in 44.5 Sohail Khan to J Mooney , leg byes , 1 run , back of a length on leg-stump , Mooney fails to connect with the flick , ball dribbles off the thigh pad in front of square leg 44.4 Sohail Khan to K O'Brien , 1 run , full and tailing in , O'Brien manages to bring his bat down and work it towards mid-on 44.4 Sohail Khan to K O'Brien , wide , lifter on the stumps , O'Brien sits down and lets it go over his head , wide called as it was too high 44.3 Sohail Khan to J Mooney , 1 run , short delivery at the batsman , Mooney pulls with one leg in the air , ball rolls away to fine leg 44.2 Sohail Khan to J Mooney , no run , fullish and outside off , Mooney drives with an open bat face to backward point 44.1 Sohail Khan to J Mooney , no run , half hearted appeal for lbw , pitched just outside leg , Mooney leans forward and misses the flick , trapped on the pads. Those ca n't be given out Sohail Khan [ 7.0-0-27-2 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Rahat Ali to J Mooney , 1 run , back of a length on off , Mooney taps it to the vacant mid-wicket region and gets off the mark. That ends Rahat Ali 's spell , his figures read : 10-0-48-2 John Mooney , left handed bat , comes to the crease 43.5 Rahat Ali to S Thompson , out Caught by U Akmal ! ! Pakistan are chipping away at the wickets. Rahat Ali picks up his second. It was the short delivery , hurried onto the batsman , Thompson was in no position to play the pull , ends up splicing it towards mid-off , Akmal runs to his left from cover and takes an easy catch. S Thompson c U Akmal b Rahat Ali 12 ( 15 ) [ 4s-1 ] Rahat Ali to S Thompson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 43.4 Rahat Ali to S Thompson , no run , pitched up outside off , Thompson drives and finds cover 43.3 Rahat Ali to S Thompson , FOUR , edged and four ! Full and just outside off , the ball swings away a touch , Thompson goes for the drive , the outside edge goes wide of the slip fielder , Afridi ca n't there from third man 43.2 Rahat Ali to K O'Brien , 1 run , off-speed delivery on middle and leg , O'Brien nurdles it to deep square leg. That brings up the 200 for Ireland and their supporters are up and clapping 43.1 Rahat Ali to S Thompson , 1 run , back of a length close to off , Thompson jams it onto his boot , the ball dribbles in front of point , O'Brien calls for the run 42.6 Riaz to S Thompson , 1 run , trifle short and outside off , Thompson slashes it from the bottom part to third man 42.5 Riaz to S Thompson , 2 runs , change up from Riaz , leg-cutter outside off , Thompson drills it to deep extra cover , Ehsan Adil runs to his left and keeps it to a couple 42.4 Riaz to K O'Brien , 1 run , back of a length angled across the batsman , O'Brien looks to force it through the off-side , gets a bottom edge down to third man 42.3 Riaz to S Thompson , 1 run , pitched up well outside off , Thompson backs away and toe-ends the drive to the left of backward point 42.2 Riaz to S Thompson , no run , follows the full delivery with a bouncer , Thompson watches the ball sail past him 42.1 Riaz to S Thompson , no run , fuller and just outside off , Thompson goes for the expansive drive , the ball nips back in and beats the inside edge. The Pakistani bowlers are surely getting the bowl to reverse Wahab Riaz [ 6.0-0-35-1 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Rahat Ali to S Thompson , 1 run , full and homing in , Thompson works it off the inner part to mid-wicket 41.5 Rahat Ali to S Thompson , no run , on this occasion , the ball jags back in , Thompson is hurried on the flick shot , is pinged high on the pad. It was going down leg , hence no appeal for lbw 41.4 Rahat Ali to S Thompson , no run , even Rahat Ali is getting some swing , tails away from back of a length , Thompson chases and is lucky not to have feathered it to the keeper 41.3 Rahat Ali to S Thompson , no run , fullish and on off , Thompson defends it down the wicket 41.2 Rahat Ali to K O'Brien , leg byes , 1 run , short of length on leg-stump , O'Brien misses the flick , the ball thuds off the thigh pad to backward square Misbah on the attack. Has placed a slip fielder at this stage of the innings.. . 41.1 Rahat Ali to S Thompson , 1 run , back of a length just outside off , Thompson punches it to sweeper cover Rahat Ali [ 8.0-0-39-1 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Sohail Khan to K O'Brien , no run , pitched up just outside off , O'Brien drives and picks out mid-off 40.5 Sohail Khan to K O'Brien , no run , hint of shape back into the batsman , O'Brien watches it closely and knocks it to mid-on , thinks about the run but decides against it 40.4 Sohail Khan to S Thompson , 1 run , targets the stumps with the length delivery , nurdled to square leg , for a single Stuart Thompson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 40.3 Sohail Khan to G Wilson , out Caught by Riaz ! ! Ireland are just losing their momentum. Wilson tries to take on the long boundaries and departs. It was banged in halfway down the wicket and outside off , Wilson goes for the upper cut , middles it pretty well , but the long boundaries at the Adelaide Oval do n't help his cause , picks out the third man fielder to perfection , Riaz makes no mistake as he takes it calmly. G Wilson c Riaz b Sohail Khan 29 ( 38 ) [ 4s-2 ] Sohail Khan to G Wilson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 40.2 Sohail Khan to G Wilson , no run , drifting onto Wilson 's pads , he falls over and wears it on the pads , the ball was sneaking down leg 40.2 Sohail Khan to G Wilson , wide , bumper well wide of off , called wide for the height as it was well over the batsman 40.1 Sohail Khan to G Wilson , no run , tails back in from a fuller length , some reverse swing there for Sohail Khan. Wilson shuffles across and goes for the flick , he gets a thick inside edge that thuds into the pads. Umpire Erasmus raised his finger in a flash , but he had to overturn it Wilson has been given out LBW. He has reviewed it straightaway. No problems with Sohail 's front foot. There is a big inside edge and that is why he challenged it immediately . The batting powerplay produced 32 runs and the wicket of Porterfield. . 39.6 Afridi to K O'Brien , no run , pushed through on the stumps , O'Brien punches and finds short mid-wicket 39.5 Afridi to K O'Brien , no run , slower through the air , O'Brien presses forward and knocks it to point 39.4 Afridi to G Wilson , 1 run , flatter and on off , punched to the left of cover 39.3 Afridi to G Wilson , FOUR , half tracker and Wilson is all over it , he goes deep in the crease and cuts it to deep backward point , Ehsan Adil runs across from sweeper cover , dives and allows the ball to go through. Afridi not happy with the effort 39.2 Afridi to G Wilson , no run , sees the batsman advance and holds the length back , Wilson taps it towards short mid-wicket 39.1 Afridi to G Wilson , no run , flighted on off , Wilson defends it to the left of the bowler Shahid Afridi [ 9.0-0-33-0 ] is back into the attack 38.6 Sohail Khan to G Wilson , 1 run , too full and on off , it was almost a yorker , Wilson digs it out to sweeper cover Kevin O'Brien , right handed bat , comes to the crease 38.5 Sohail Khan to Porterfield , out Caught by Afridi ! ! Huge wicket for Pakistan. They have got rid of the set batsman. That also gets the crowd going. Porterfield goes back to a standing ovation. Length delivery around off , Porterfield clears his front leg and goes for the heave towards cow corner , gets it high on the bat and spoons it to the left of mid-on , Afridi moves forward , dives and manages to hang onto a good catch. Porterfield c Afridi b Sohail Khan 107 ( 131 ) [ 4s-11 6s-1 ] Sohail Khan to Porterfield , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 38.4 Sohail Khan to Porterfield , no run , slanted across the left-hander , Porterfield flashes a cut and fails to make contact 38.3 Sohail Khan to G Wilson , 1 run , good length ball on off , Wilson eases it with an open bat face past the diving backward point fielder 38.2 Sohail Khan to Porterfield , 1 run , not all that short , Porterfield chops the cut square of the wicket on the off-side 38.1 Sohail Khan to G Wilson , 1 run , short and outside off , Wilson cuts it to third man 37.6 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , no run , fullish and homing in , Porterfield leans forward and wrists it to mid-on 37.5 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , no run , drives the full length delivery back to the bowler , Rahat fields the ball this time 37.4 Rahat Ali to G Wilson , 1 run , fraction short and outside off , Wilson cuts to deep backward point , he middled that but picked out the fielder 37.3 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , 1 run , short of length around off , Porterfield steers it wide of backward point , collects a single to square third man 37.2 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , FOUR , half volley outside off , Porterfield gets a good stride forward and caresses the drive to deep extra cover , none of the fielders moved as the ball whistled away to the fence 37.1 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , 2 runs , Porterfield registers his 7th ODI hundred. It is his first one in World Cups. He looks a happy man , has a big smile , takes off his helmet , hugs Wilson and acknowledges the applause from the crowd and his team-mates. It has been a captain 's innings. Coming back to the ball , Porterfield almost departed for 99. The ball stops on him , he checks his drive and hits it in the air straight back at the bowler , Rahat got a finger on it and almost deflected it onto the stumps. But , Rahat should have held on , it will go down as a dropped chance 36.6 Sohail Khan to G Wilson , FOUR , poor delivery to finish the over. Short and plenty of width on offer , Wilson never tried to hit it along the ground , cuts it up and over backward point for a boundary 36.5 Sohail Khan to Porterfield , 1 run , good length ball on off , Porterfield rolls his wrists and nudges it to deep backward square leg 36.4 Sohail Khan to G Wilson , 1 run , fuller and slanting in , Wilson looks to drive and the ball goes off the inside half towards mid-on 36.3 Sohail Khan to Porterfield , 1 run , knocks it wide of cover and inches closer to his hundred 36.2 Sohail Khan to G Wilson , 1 run , run-out chance missed ! It was short of length just outside off , Wilson walks across his stumps , inside edges the pull onto the stomach , Porterfield calls for the run , Sohail Khan runs forward , picks up the ball and has a shy at the non-striker 's end , Wilson dived but it would n't have counted for much as he was well short Still a slip in place. . 36.1 Sohail Khan to Porterfield , 1 run , back of a length on off , Porterfield plays the short-arm pull behind square leg , for a single Sohail Khan [ 4.0-0-12-0 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Rahat Ali to G Wilson , no run , takes the pace off the ball , Wilson bunts it to short cover 35.6 Rahat Ali to G Wilson , wide , angled well wide of off , just outside the tram-line , Wilson ca n't connect with the slash , wide called 35.5 Rahat Ali to G Wilson , 2 runs , provides a bit of room on this occasion , Wilson slaps it behind point , Sohail Khan tidies up running to his right from third man 35.4 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , 1 run , drags his length back , Porterfield wrists it to mid-on and sets off for a quick single 35.3 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , no run , tight line from Rahat , good length ball in and around off , Porterfield defends to the right of the bowler 35.2 Rahat Ali to G Wilson , 1 run , back of a length around off , Wilson eases it to sweeper cover , for a single A slip in place. . 35.1 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , 1 run , full on off , Porterfield moves across and nurdles it square of the wicket on the leg-side Rahat Ali [ 6.0-0-25-1 ] is back into the attack Time for the batting PP. . 34.6 Afridi to G Wilson , no run , Porterfield had to hurry back , but Sarfraz Ahmed was on the ground and his return is pretty weak , Porterfield wanted a single and had to get back in a hurry , this was pushed through and on Wilson 's pads , he looked to flick and missed 34.5 Afridi to G Wilson , no run , tossed up and wider outside off , Wilson looks to drive and gets a bottom edge towards backward point 34.4 Afridi to Porterfield , 1 run , this one 's given more air , Porterfield plays with the spin and drives it towards long-on 34.3 Afridi to G Wilson , 1 run , flighted and well outside off , eased past cover for a single 34.2 Afridi to G Wilson , no run , pushed through by Afridi , Wilson goes back and works it towards mid-wicket 34.1 Afridi to G Wilson , no run , tossed up and on the stumps , Wilson prods forward and blocks Drinks are on the field now. Pakistan have done well to make sure that there 's no big partnership. Ireland bat deep and are well on course for a score around 260. But is it enough ? 33.6 Sohail to Porterfield , no run , slower and just outside off , turned straight to the fielder at square leg 33.6 Sohail to Porterfield , wide , flatter and well down leg-side , called as a wide 33.5 Sohail to G Wilson , 1 run , this one is given more air , eased down towards long-off for a single 33.4 Sohail to G Wilson , no run , slower and on off , Wilson comes down the track and blocks 33.3 Sohail to Porterfield , 1 run , pushed through and just outside off , eased down towards long-on 33.2 Sohail to Porterfield , FOUR , that 's nicely played by Porterfield , this was well flighted and wider outside off , Porterfield makes room and drives it wide of mid-off , the fielder dives in installments and allows the ball to go through 33.1 Sohail to G Wilson , 1 run , Sohail drops one short and well outside off , chopped away square on the off-side for a single 32.6 Afridi to G Wilson , 1 run , flighted delivery and well outside off , Wilson makes room and cuts it square on the off-side for a single 32.5 Afridi to G Wilson , no run , the attempted wrong 'un from Afridi , Wilson looks to drive and gets an inside edge onto the pads 32.4 Afridi to G Wilson , no run , pushed through and on the stumps , Wilson prods forward and blocks 32.3 Afridi to G Wilson , no run , tossed up and well outside off , driven towards cover , the fielder rips the ball back towards the batsman who has to dive to save himself 32.2 Afridi to Porterfield , 1 run , just over mid-wicket , Porterfield was early into the flick , ends up hitting it in the air and over the man at mid-wicket 32.1 Afridi to G Wilson , 1 run , pushed through and on Wilson 's pads , nudged behind square on the on-side for a single Shahid Afridi [ 7.0-0-28-0 ] is back into the attack 31.6 Sohail to Porterfield , no run , Sohail drifts one outside off , driven back towards the bowler 31.5 Sohail to G Wilson , 1 run , slower and wider from Sohail , worked with an open face and past cover for a single 31.4 Sohail to Porterfield , 1 run , pushed through and on Porterfield 's pads , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a single 31.3 Sohail to G Wilson , 1 run , fraction shorter and just outside off , Wilson makes room and works it past cover for a run 31.2 Sohail to Porterfield , 1 run , Sohail drops one short and just outside off , Porterfield makes room and cuts it square past cover for a single 31.1 Sohail to G Wilson , 1 run , flighted delivery and on the stumps , Wilson comes down the track and works it towards long-on 30.6 Riaz to Porterfield , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Porterfield slashes at that and misses , loose from Ireland 's captain in this over , looking to counter-punch Pakistan 's bowlers 30.5 Riaz to Porterfield , no run , the bumper from Riaz , Porterfield ducks under it and lets it go 30.4 Riaz to G Wilson , 1 run , tad fuller and going away with the angle , worked away behind square on the off-side for a single 30.3 Riaz to G Wilson , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Wilson stays behind the line and defends it 30.2 Riaz to G Wilson , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Wilson shuffles across and defends it 30.1 Riaz to Porterfield , 1 run , almost a chance , this was short and wide from Riaz , Porterfield went for the cut , the top-edge flew towards third man. Rahat came rushing in and decides he ca n't get to the ball , does well to block it with his legs 29.6 Sohail to G Wilson , no run , tossed up and well outside off , Wilson presses forward and blocks 29.5 Sohail to G Wilson , 2 runs , Sohail drops one short and wide outside off , Wilson makes room and cuts it square on the off-side , comes back for the second run Gary Wilson , right handed bat , comes to the crease 29.4 Sohail to Balbirnie , out Caught by Afridi ! ! Another soft dismissal for Ireland. This was tossed up and well outside off , Balbirnie went for the sweep , he had to fetch it from well outside off , ca n't get on top of the bounce , gets a thick top-edge , Afridi settles underneath it at short fine leg and takes the dolly. Pakistan are chipping away at one end. Balbirnie c Afridi b Sohail 18 ( 36 ) Sohail to Balbirnie , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 29.3 Sohail to Porterfield , 3 runs , pushed through and flatter from Sohail , clipped behind square on the on-side , Maqsood is put under pressure by Porterfield , he fumbles and allows a third run 29.2 Sohail to Balbirnie , 1 run , short and wide from Sohail , slapped away to deep point for a single 29.1 Sohail to Porterfield , 1 run , flighted and on Porterfield 's pads , flicked away towards deep mid-wicket for a single Haris Sohail , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 28.6 Riaz to Porterfield , 1 run , short and on the stumps , Porterfield swivels across and pulls it past square leg for a single 28.5 Riaz to Balbirnie , 1 run , back of a length and on the stumps , gets big on Balbirnie , he ca n't control the shovel , the ball loops in the air and towards mid-wicket 28.4 Riaz to Balbirnie , no run , width on offer from Riaz , Balbirnie cracks it behind square on the off-side , Shehzad dives and stops a certain boundary 28.3 Riaz to Balbirnie , no run , short of a length and just outside off , dabbed in front of point , he wanted a single but is sent back A slip is in place 28.2 Riaz to Balbirnie , no run , back of a length and on the stumps , pushed towards mid-on 28.1 Riaz to Balbirnie , no run , on a good length and around middle , blocked back towards the bowler Wahab Riaz [ 4.0-0-31-1 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Afridi to Porterfield , no run , Afridi drifts one wider outside off , Porterfield pushed at that , the ball spun away behind square , but Shehzad gets behind the ball and prevents the ball from going further 27.5 Afridi to Porterfield , no run , tossed up and wider outside off , Porterfield lunges forward and gets an inside edge 27.4 Afridi to Porterfield , no run , flighted delivery and on off , clipped to the right of mid-wicket , who makes a smart stop 27.3 Afridi to Balbirnie , 1 run , this one is given more air , punched down towards long-on for a single 27.2 Afridi to Porterfield , 1 run , Afridi tosses one on off , dabbed in front of point for a quick single 27.1 Afridi to Balbirnie , 1 run , flighted and on the leg-stump line , driven down towards long-on for a single 26.6 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , no run , on a good length and well outside off , mistimed drive towards mid-off 26.5 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , 2 runs , Adil keeps it full and wide outside off , Porterfield reaches out and drills it through extra cover , the fielder in the deep gets across and keeps them down to a brace 26.5 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , wide , Adil slips one down leg-side , called as a wide , harsh call that , it clipped Porterfield 's thigh pad on its way 26.5 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , wide , Adil slips one down leg-side , called as a wide 26.4 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , no run , on a good length and well outside off , driven straight to Akmal at extra cover 26.3 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , no run , Adil keeps it full and just outside off , Porterfield closes the face of the bat and drives it towards mid-on 26.2 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven straight to Akmal at extra cover 26.1 Ehsan Adil to Balbirnie , 3 runs , short and just outside off , Balbirnie swivels across and pulls it to the right of mid-on , Misbah gets across , tumbles and allows the ball to slip past his fingers , the batsmen get back for the third run 25.6 Afridi to Balbirnie , 1 run , this one 's given more air , bunted down towards long-off for a single 25.5 Afridi to Balbirnie , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , Balbirnie lunges forward and blocks 25.4 Afridi to Porterfield , 1 run , Afridi drifts one wider outside off , squeezed square on the off-side for a run 25.3 Afridi to Balbirnie , 1 run , full and wide from Afridi , driven past Akmal at cover for a single 25.2 Afridi to Balbirnie , no run , slightly slower and just outside off , punched straight to the fielder at cover 25.1 Afridi to Balbirnie , no run , tossed up and on off , blocked back towards the bowler 24.6 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , no run , tad fuller and well outside off , driven straight to the fielder at short cover 24.5 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , no run , fuller length delivery and on Porterfield 's pads , turned towards the on-side , it was the slower ball from Adil , rolled his fingers around it 24.4 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , no run , almost carried to short cover , Akmal was the fielder there , length ball and well outside off , slapped towards short cover , the ball bounced in front of the fielder 24.3 Ehsan Adil to Balbirnie , 1 run , back of a length and well outside off , Balbirnie punches it square on the off-side for a single 24.2 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , 1 run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , driven past cover for a single 24.1 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , no run , on a good length and just outside off , dabbed straight to the fielder at point 23.6 Afridi to Porterfield , 1 run , slower and just outside off , dropped in front of point for a quick single 23.5 Afridi to Porterfield , no run , was there an edge ? Sarfraz dropped it , no edge though , this was quicker and wider from Afridi , went with the angle , Porterfield threw his bat at that and missed 23.4 Afridi to Porterfield , FOUR , that should relieve some pressure off Porterfield , this was tossed up and well outside off , Porterfield frees his arms and lofts it over mid-off , plays it against the spin and earns a boundary 23.3 Afridi to Balbirnie , 1 run , pushed through by Afridi , driven to the left of mid-on for a single 23.2 Afridi to Balbirnie , no run , slower and just outside off , dabbed towards short third man 23.1 Afridi to Porterfield , 1 run , the paddle sweep from Porterfield , gets a single down behind square 22.6 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Porterfield rides with the bounce and dabs it down towards third man 22.5 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , no run , Adil shortens his length on middle , Porterfield closed the face of the bat as he looked to tuck it towards the on-side , gets a soft leading edge towards cover 22.4 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , no run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed in front of point , Porterfield wants a single and is sent back 22.3 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , 2 runs , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed away behind square on the off-side for a couple of runs 22.2 Ehsan Adil to Balbirnie , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , driven towards deep cover for a single 22.1 Ehsan Adil to Balbirnie , no run , on a good length and on the stumps , pushed towards mid-on 21.6 Afridi to Porterfield , no run , slower and on the stumps , defended towards the on-side 21.5 Afridi to Porterfield , no run , this one 's given more air , driven straight to the fielder at cover 21.4 Afridi to Balbirnie , 1 run , flighted delivery and well outside off , driven past cover for a single 21.3 Afridi to Balbirnie , no run , once again on Balbirnie 's pads , turned towards short fine-leg 21.2 Afridi to Porterfield , 1 run , flighted delivery and on Porterfield 's pads , worked behind square on the on-side for a single 21.1 Afridi to Porterfield , 2 runs , there 's no slip and Porterfield deliberately opens the face of the bat and steers it towards that region , comes back for the second run 20.6 Ehsan Adil to Balbirnie , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Balbirnie presents the full face of the bat and punches it back at the bowler 20.5 Ehsan Adil to Balbirnie , no run , on a length and outside off , Balbirnie presses forward and punches it towards cover 20.4 Ehsan Adil to Balbirnie , no run , Adil keeps it short and just outside off , Balbirnie gets behind the line and defends it 20.3 Ehsan Adil to Balbirnie , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Balbirnie stays back and blocks 20.2 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , eased square past point for a single 20.1 Ehsan Adil to Balbirnie , 1 run , length ball and on Balbirnie 's pads , worked away past square leg for a single Ehsan Adil [ 3.0-0-17-1 ] is back into the attack 19.6 Afridi to Porterfield , no run , Afridi slows one on off , punched back towards the bowler , just one run from the over 19.5 Afridi to Porterfield , no run , slower and on off , driven back towards the bowler 19.4 Afridi to Porterfield , no run , tossed up and shaping away with the angle , Porterfield looks to drive and gets a thick edge towards short third man 19.3 Afridi to Balbirnie , 1 run , slightly short and just outside off , Balbirnie makes room and cuts it square on the off-side for a single 19.2 Afridi to Balbirnie , no run , flighted delivery and sliding away from outside off , Balbirnie looks to cut and misses 19.1 Afridi to Balbirnie , no run , tossed up and well outside off , blocked towards cover 18.6 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , no run , short and just outside off , once again , it stops on the batsman , he gets a bottom edge on the cut and the ball rolls away towards point 18.5 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , no run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed straight to the fielder at point 18.4 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , no run , Rahat keeps it very full and just outside off , punched back towards the bowler 18.3 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , no run , tad fuller and on the stumps , Porterfield presses forward and defends it towards mid-on 18.2 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , no run , short and wide from Rahat , Porterfield goes hard on the cut and gets a bottom edge towards the keeper 18.1 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , FOUR , too straight from Rahat , ends up drifting onto Porterfield 's pads , flicked away very fine and into the fence for a boundary 17.6 Afridi to Balbirnie , no run , pushed through flatter and on the stumps , Balbirnie goes back and nudges it towards mid-wicket 17.5 Afridi to Balbirnie , no run , flatter and on Balbirnie 's pads , tucked straight to the fielder at short fine 17.4 Afridi to Porterfield , 1 run , Afridi drifts one outside off , Porterfield dabs it to the left of point for a single 17.3 Afridi to Balbirnie , 1 run , this one is given more air , driven towards long-off for a single 17.2 Afridi to Balbirnie , no run , fraction short and just outside off , punched back at the bowler A slip is in place 17.1 Afridi to Porterfield , 1 run , pushed through and on Porterfield 's pads , tucked away in front of square on the on-side for a single 16.6 Rahat Ali to Balbirnie , 2 runs , back of a length and well outside off , Balbirnie stands tall and caresses it square past point. Riaz gets across to his left from sweeper cover and keeps them down to a brace 16.5 Rahat Ali to Balbirnie , no run , short of a length and holding its line outside off , left alone Andrew Balbirnie , right handed bat , comes to the crease 16.4 Rahat Ali to N O'Brien , out Caught by U Akmal ! ! That 's a soft dismissal for O'Brien ! This was short and wide from Rahat , looked like it stopped on the pitch , he was looking to punch it away off the back foot , ends up hitting it to the left of short cover , Akmal moves across and clings onto the head high chance. Once again , Ireland get a partnership moving and lose a wicket. N O'Brien c U Akmal b Rahat Ali 12 ( 10 ) [ 4s-2 ] Rahat Ali to N O'Brien , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 16.3 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed to the right of backward point for a quick single 16.2 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , no run , tad fuller and well outside off , Porterfield leans forward and drives it towards mid-off 16.1 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Porterfield stays behind the line and defends it Rahat Ali [ 4.0-0-18-0 ] is back into the attack 15.6 Afridi to Porterfield , 1 run , tossed up and well outside off , Porterfield gets a good stride forward and drives it past cover for a single 15.5 Afridi to Porterfield , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , defended towards point 15.4 Afridi to Porterfield , FOUR , super shot , 12th ODI fifty for Porterfield , this was given plenty of air and the width was there as well , Porterfield reaches out and cracks it in front of cover for a boundary 15.3 Afridi to Porterfield , no run , flatter and just outside off , Porterfield goes back and tucks it towards mid-wicket 15.2 Afridi to N O'Brien , 1 run , this one is given more air , driven square past cover for a single 15.1 Afridi to Porterfield , 1 run , the lap sweep from Porterfield , gets down on his knees and laps it towards long leg for a single Shahid Afridi , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack Drinks are on the field now. Ireland have lost a couple of wickets but are scoring at a good rate. Porterfield looks determined , N O'Brien has started very positively. . 14.6 Riaz to N O'Brien , no run , short of a length and well outside off , O'Brien presses across and blocks 14.5 Riaz to Porterfield , 1 run , back of a length and on Porterfield 's hips , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single 14.4 Riaz to N O'Brien , 1 run , once again too straight and on O'Brien 's pads , worked away behind square on the on-side for a single 14.4 Riaz to N O'Brien , wide , Riaz slips one well down leg-side , O'Brien looks to flick and misses , called as a wide 14.3 Riaz to N O'Brien , FOUR , that 's a lovely shot , too short from Riaz , O'Brien swivels across and pulls it over mid-wicket , races away to the fence in a hurry 14.2 Riaz to N O'Brien , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , O'Brien presses across and defends it 14.1 Riaz to N O'Brien , no run , back of a length and just outside off , N O'Brien gets behind the line and defends it towards the off-side 13.6 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , FOUR , short and wide from Rahat , Porterfield throws the kitchen sink at that , gets a thick edge that flies past the lone slip and races away to the fence 13.5 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , 2 runs , wrong line from Rahat , too full and on Porterfield 's pads , whipped away past mid-on for a couple of runs 13.4 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , no run , on a good length and just outside off , punched with a closed face towards mid-on 13.4 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , wide , another bouncer from Rahat , this one sails over Porterfield 's head , called as a wide 13.3 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , no run , on a good length and well outside off , punched straight to the fielder at mid-off 13.2 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , 2 runs , too straight from Rahat , ends up drifting onto Porterfield 's pads , worked past mid-on for a couple of runs 13.1 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , no run , on a good length and well outside off , blocked towards cover 12.6 Riaz to N O'Brien , no run , back of a length and just outside off , O'Brien punches it straight to the fielder at point 12.5 Riaz to N O'Brien , FOUR , poor ball from Riaz , this was short and wide outside off , O'Brien rides with the bounce , rolls his wrists and cuts it square past point for a boundary 12.4 Riaz to N O'Brien , 2 runs , back of a length and just outside off , O'Brien steers it away towards third man for a couple of runs Niall O'Brien , left handed bat , comes to the crease 12.3 Riaz to Ed Joyce , out Caught by U Akmal ! ! That 's a simple catch to Akmal at cover-point ! This was banged in short and just outside off , Joyce was looking to pull it away towards the on-side , plays the ball a fraction too early , the top-edge is found , it goes straight up and into the palms of Akmal , at cover-point. Ireland have lost their second wicket , 12th wicket in this tournament for Riaz. Ed Joyce c U Akmal b Riaz 11 ( 18 ) [ 4s-1 ] Riaz to Ed Joyce , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 12.2 Riaz to Porterfield , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , eased away square on the off-side for a single 12.1 Riaz to Porterfield , 2 runs , short of a length and just outside off , Porterfield looks to force it away off the back foot , gets an inside edge towards long leg for a couple of runs West Indies have completed victory at Napier and their net run-rate is well above Pakistan. Unless this match ends in a tie , they will be playing New Zealand in the quarter-final in Wellington 11.6 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , driven towards sweeper cover for a single 11.5 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Porterfield rides with the bounce and defends it towards point 11.4 Rahat Ali to Ed Joyce , 1 run , length ball and on Joyce 's pads , worked away in front of square on the on-side for a single 11.3 Rahat Ali to Ed Joyce , no run , back of a length and well outside off , Ed Joyce rides with the bounce and keeps it down 11.2 Rahat Ali to Ed Joyce , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , defended towards the off-side 11.1 Rahat Ali to Ed Joyce , no run , this was pitched up on a length outside off and nipped away from off , Ed Joyce was looking to defend , there was a sound as the ball went past the bat , but nothing conclusive to prove that the original call was wrong. Misbah is upset and has a word with the umpire Loud shout for a caught behind. Pakistan want a review. Sarfraz Ahmed was very confident , there was a sound , but was it bat hitting pad ? There 's something on the Snicko , but there looks to be daylight between bat and ball , will Ed Joyce get the benefit of doubt ? The original call is NOT-OUT and unless there 's something that 's comprehensive , it will stay that way , and that 's how it ends up. Pakistan have lost their only review 10.6 Riaz to Porterfield , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended with soft hands and towards point 10.5 Riaz to Porterfield , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , clipped to the left of mid-on 10.4 Riaz to Porterfield , no run , back of a length and well outside off , punched straight to the fielder at point 10.3 Riaz to Ed Joyce , 1 run , short of a length and well outside off , steered square behind point for a single 10.3 Riaz to Ed Joyce , wide , the high bouncer from Riaz , goes way over Joyce 's head , Sarfraz Ahmed leaps across and saves a certain four additional runs 10.2 Riaz to Porterfield , 1 run , short and just outside off , Porterfield swivels across on the pull , does n't get hold of the shot and ends up dragging it past square leg 10.1 Riaz to Ed Joyce , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Joyce shuffles across and nudges it past mid-wicket for a single 9.6 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , no run , Rahat is hitting the deck hard and well outside off , punched straight to the fielder at cover 9.5 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , no run , back of a length and well outside off , punched towards the man at extra cover 9.4 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Porterfield prods forward and blocks it towards short cover 9.3 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , no run , short and wide from Rahat , Porterfield looks to flat bat it past mid-off , hits it straight to the fielder 9.2 Rahat Ali to Ed Joyce , 1 run , tad fuller and just outside off , Joyce plays with an angled bat and runs it down towards third man for a single 9.1 Rahat Ali to Ed Joyce , no run , on a good length and well outside off , steered away square towards point 8.6 Riaz to Porterfield , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Porterfield stays back and punches it towards cover 8.5 Riaz to Ed Joyce , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , dabbed away to the left of backward point for a single , good running from Porterfield 8.4 Riaz to Porterfield , 1 run , back of a length and well outside off , steered away square behind point on the off-side for a single 8.3 Riaz to Porterfield , FOUR , lovely shot , way too short and wide from Riaz , Porterfield rocks back and cracks it square past point , no need to chase those , the ball races away to the fence 8.2 Riaz to Porterfield , FOUR , nicely played by Porterfield , fuller length delivery and well outside off , he leans forward and drives it on the up , presents the full face of the bat and gets it past mid-off. Sohail gives the chase and ends up escorting the ball to the boundary 8.1 Riaz to Porterfield , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended towards point 8.1 Riaz to Porterfield , wide , poor start from Riaz , attempts a slower bouncer , the ball slips and goes miles outside off , wide called Wahab Riaz , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 7.6 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , 1 run , short and wide from Rahat , Porterfield looks to go up and over point , gets it right off the bottom and the ball loops over backward point , drops well in front of Sohail at third man 7.5 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , FOUR , Porterfield is picking up the length early and is peppering the short boundaries , fraction short and just outside off , Porterfield is quick to rock back and pulls it over mid-wicket for a boundary 7.4 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , no run , tad fuller and in that channel outside off , driven firmly and towards mid-off 7.3 Rahat Ali to Porterfield , no run , back of a length and on off , Porterfield gets across and defends it towards the on-side 7.2 Rahat Ali to Ed Joyce , 1 run , dropped by Shehzad , how costly will this prove to be ? This was short and wide from Rahat , Joyce cracked it hard and to the right of backward point , Shehzad was wrong-footed , he ends up sticking his right hand and shells it , he looks gutted , should have probably taken the chance 7.1 Rahat Ali to Ed Joyce , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Ed Joyce was caught in his crease on the defensive push , gets an inside edge that rolls away towards square leg 6.6 Sohail Khan to Porterfield , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Porterfield waits on it and pushes it towards point 6.5 Sohail Khan to Porterfield , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Porterfield prods across and nudges it towards the on-side 6.4 Sohail Khan to Porterfield , SIX , massive , Porterfield is looking in good touch , back of a length and just outside off , Porterfield was quick to pick up the length , rocks back and pulls him high and over backward square leg for a maximum 6.3 Sohail Khan to Porterfield , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Porterfield drives it hard and straight to Akmal at extra cover 6.2 Sohail Khan to Porterfield , no run , tad fuller and well outside off , Porterfield leans forward and drives it straight to cover 6.1 Sohail Khan to Ed Joyce , 1 run , on a length and just outside off , Joyce pushes forward and gets an inside edge behind square on the on-side 5.6 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , FOUR , nicely played ! Too short from Adil , Porterfield swivels across , rolls his wrists and pulls it past square leg for a boundary 5.5 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , 2 runs , back of a length and just outside off , Porterfield uses his wrists and works it past mid-wicket. Riaz gives the chase , his knee got stuck as he got to the ball , but there 's no damage done 5.4 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , no run , Adil keeps it short and well outside off , punched to the left of extra cover. Afridi moves across quickly , stops the ball and has a shy at the bowler 's end 5.3 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Porterfield stands tall and punches it to the left of point , Shehzad moves across , dives and stops runs 5.2 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , no run , short of a length and well outside off , punched to the left of cover , Akmal dives across and prevents runs Adil has been warned for running on the pitch , this is his first warning 5.1 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Porterfield presses forward and defends it to the left of point 4.6 Sohail Khan to Ed Joyce , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Ed Joyce covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 4.5 Sohail Khan to Ed Joyce , no run , back of a length and well outside off , Ed Joyce stands tall and steers it towards cover 4.4 Sohail Khan to Porterfield , 1 run , short and on Porterfield 's hips , he swivels across and helps it behind square on the on-side , Riaz gets across quickly and keeps them down to a single The second slip moves across to short cover 4.3 Sohail Khan to Porterfield , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven crisply but straight to the fielder at cover-point 4.2 Sohail Khan to Porterfield , no run , tad fuller and well outside off , Porterfield leans into the drive , Akmal moves across to his right and prevents runs 4.1 Sohail Khan to Porterfield , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Porterfield gets well forward and blocks it towards mid-on 3.6 Ehsan Adil to Ed Joyce , FOUR , that 's a nice way to get going , pitched up and shaping away from well outside off , laced away past extra cover for a boundary , good way to open your account 3.5 Ehsan Adil to Ed Joyce , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Ed Joyce gets behind the line and defends it 3.4 Ehsan Adil to Ed Joyce , no run , back of a length and holding its line around off , Ed Joyce pushes forward and is struck high on the pads Ed Joyce , left handed bat , comes to the crease 3.3 Ehsan Adil to Stirling , out Lbw ! ! Adil gets his first wicket in the World Cup ! This was full and slanted back into Stirling , he was looking to whip it across the line , misses and is trapped palpably in front , the impact was around middle and leg , the ball would have crashed into the leg-stump. He has a chat with his captain and wisely decides against wasting a review. Early jolt for Ireland. Stirling lbw b Ehsan Adil 3 ( 8 ) Ehsan Adil to Stirling , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Stirling has been given out LBW , he 's walking 3.2 Ehsan Adil to Stirling , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Stirling leans forward and defends it towards mid-on 3.1 Ehsan Adil to Stirling , no run , on a good length and on the stumps , Stirling presses across and defends it towards mid-on An update from the West Indies-UAE game , the Caribbean side are 127/4 after 20 overs , need 49 more runs in 16.2 overs to get their net run-rate above Pakistan . 2.6 Sohail Khan to Porterfield , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Porterfield presses forward and defends it towards cover 2.5 Sohail Khan to Porterfield , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Porterfield stays back and punches it towards cover 2.4 Sohail Khan to Stirling , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , pushed wide of cover-point for a single 2.3 Sohail Khan to Stirling , no run , short of a length and just outside off , cramps Stirling for room , he ends up getting a bottom-edge onto the cut , the ball rolls away towards point 2.2 Sohail Khan to Stirling , 2 runs , tad fuller and just outside off , Stirling leans forward and punches it past mid-off , Misbah gives chase and keeps them down to a couple of runs 2.1 Sohail Khan to Stirling , no run , on a good length and on the stumps , Stirling gets across and nudges it towards the on-side 1.6 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , no run , back of a length and shaping away from outside off , Porterfield covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 1.5 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , 2 runs , Ehsan Adil has been very short in his first over , Porterfield swivels across and pulls it away behind square on the on-side for a brace 1.4 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , no run , much better from Adil , tad fuller and shaping away from outside off , left alone 1.3 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , FOUR , lovely shot , fraction too short and just outside off , Porterfield is quick to rock back and pulls it over mid-wicket , almost went all the way , just one bounce and over the ropes 1.3 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , wide , Adil slips one wider and gets it to shape away further , called as a wide 1.2 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Porterfield covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 1.1 Ehsan Adil to Porterfield , no run , tad too full and on the stumps , Porterfield works it to the left of mid-on , Stirling wanted a single and is sent back Ehsan Adil , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 0.6 Sohail Khan to Stirling , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Stirling presses across and defends it 0.5 Sohail Khan to Porterfield , 1 run , Porterfield is off the mark , back of a length and on Porterfield 's hips , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single 0.4 Sohail Khan to Porterfield , no run , Sohail shortens his length and gets it to shape away from the left-hander , left alone 0.3 Sohail Khan to Porterfield , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Porterfield covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 0.2 Sohail Khan to Porterfield , no run , that 's nicely bowled , on that off-stump channel and a hint of shape away from off , Porterfield pushes forward with a straight bat and is beaten 0.1 Sohail Khan to Porterfield , no run , fuller length delivery and a hint of nip back into Porterfield , he covers the line and defends it with a straight bat Porterfield and Stirling are at the crease. Porterfield is on strike. Sohail Khan will open the attack Two slips in place as Sohail steams in. . Right , at Napier , West Indies are cruising towards the target and should go well above Pakistan in net run-rate. On the other hand , Pakistan have n't chased well in recent times and their record chasing in this tournament is 0-2. That sets up a thrilling finale to the group stages of the World Cup. Misbah has plenty to say at the team huddle and we 're ready for the contest . Teams : Pakistan ( Playing XI ) : Sarfraz Ahmed ( w ) , Ahmed Shehzad , Haris Sohail , Misbah-ul-Haq ( c ) , Sohaib Maqsood , Umar Akmal , Shahid Afridi , Wahab Riaz , Sohail Khan , Rahat Ali , Ehsan Adil Ireland ( Playing XI ) : William Porterfield ( c ) , Paul Stirling , Ed Joyce , Niall O'Brien , Andrew Balbirnie , Gary Wilson ( w ) , Kevin O'Brien , John Mooney , Stuart Thompson , Alex Cusack , George Dockrell Ireland have won the toss and have opted to bat Misbah-ul-Haq : We do n't need to think that way ( about pressure ) , we need to just go there and express ourselves , be positive and try to and give our 100 % , rest nobody can control that. It 's always a very good pitch to bat on , bowling really needs to be on target. Very unfortunate for us , Irfan is not playing due to injury concerns , Younis Khan is also not playing and Haris Sohail is back from injury , so he is in the side . William Porterfield : It 's like any other occasion. We needed to be prepared very well for the game which we have done and take it as another game where we can get 2 points from and obviously those two points take us to the next phase , so it 's a big game in that sense , but as long we set the process well , we will be happy. It does very much so , the way we have played in the competition , we are very happy with that , the freedom and confidence we have played with - we will have to bring it today as well. We will bat first , looks like a very good pitch , you ca n't assess that from too early on. The scores have been quite high in this competition , but we need to get out there and set the platform first , and if we have got wickets in hand , coming at the back end , anything is possible. It 's obviously one of their strengths ( bowling ) , we need to start very well with the bat , get to the first 10-12 overs and set it up for the back end. The way we have done that so far has been very pleasing , we have to just go out there and do that again. We have got the same team that played against India . Weather Update : It 's going to be a partly cloudy day and with not much of a chance for rain to disturb proceedings. Should be pretty ideal playing conditions . So what 's going on in Napier - By the looks of it , West Indies are coasting towards a comprehensive victory over UAE. They will , in all possibility , finish with 6 points and with a better net run-rate than Pakistan. The equation then is simple - Win and go through to the Q/Fs , lose and get eliminated Ireland 's bowling has been their weakness but there 's no quick stitch as yet. The young off-spinner , Andy McBrine might be back though - replacing Stuart Thompson . Team News : Pakistan 's four-pronged pace attack is working wonders and Misbah has already hinted at going with an unchanged line-up. That will leave Yasir Shah warming the benches once again. Haris Sohail missed the match against South Africa with an injury. If he does make his way back , one of Sohaib Maqsood or Umar Akmal might have to give way . Head-to-Head Record : After the reversal in 2007 , Pakistan has held its own against Ireland and enjoys a 3-1 winning advantage. The last two matches , played in May 2013 , were extremely close though with one match ending in a tie and Pakistan scraping through the other , by a slender 2-wicket margin . Pitch Conditions : With short square boundaries and a pitch that 's rock hard , Adelaide has been the usual batting paradise. Two matches have been played here and the team batting first has held the advantage. Pakistan played their first World Cup match , against India , on this ground and should have first-hand knowledge of the conditions . The 2007 result is fresh in their memories and the new generation of players is n't worried about playing to the galleries. " I watched that match on the telly. I was in school. Obviously , that was a starting point in Irish cricket. It was a great day , " middle-order batsman , Andrew Balbirnie said. While the youngsters are brash and confident , the older guard has mixed optimism with caution. " It 's just another game of the group in terms of preparation , " skipper William Porterfield told reporters during the pre-match press conference. " Obviously result-wise it 's a key match , but you are still going to prepare like you do for each match , " he added . On the other hand , Ireland have been steady. After two wins - against West Indies and UAE - reality hit them during a massive defeat against South Africa. The game against Zimbabwe was a cliff-hanger and John Mooney 's controversial catch turned out to be the difference between the two teams. It was followed by another walloping at the hands of the Indians. Having come pretty far , Ireland have nothing to lose and this might work in their favour when they meet Pakistan . So what 's the team talk - Pakistan look relaxed after having recorded three wins in a row. While the victories over Zimbabwe and UAE were amongst expected lines , it was the stunning defeat of South Africa that has alarmed its rivals. The cornered tigers - as Imran Khans men were famously known during the 1992 siege - have enveloped this team as well. Can they continue the upward revival ? The players certainly think so. " We are playing for the pride of 18 crore Pakistanis who are looking at us. We must not give ourselves the chance to regret later that we did not leave any stone unturned , Misbah said , asking his players to rise to the occasion . There 's another possibility. A surprise West Indies loss , a tie or a no-result will see both teams go through to the quarter-finals , irrespective of the result of this match . Ireland also have 6 points , but their net run-rate is the worst amongst the three teams vying for the final two spots. A straightforward victory will ensure them a place in the quarter-final , but a loss , doubled with West Indies ' victory over UAE , earlier in the day in Napier , will see them eliminated from the tournament . Qualification Scenarios : Before going any further , let 's have a look at what this game means to both teams in terms of qualification scenarios. With 6 points and a superior net run-rate , Pakistan are best placed to qualify. A win will take them through as the third placed team in Pool B but a loss will complicate things for Misbah-ul-Haq 's men. They can still make it to the next round , provided they have a better net run-rate than West Indies - even if the Caribbean team defeats UAE . Cut back to 2015 and the two teams are once again locked in a do-or-die battle. The scene might have moved from Jamaica to Adelaide , but the hunger remains. On the eve of the match , Pakistan middle-order batsman , Younis Khan , who was part of that 2007 debacle , spoke about wanting to honour the late coach with a victory at Adelaide. " Hope we can win this game and some more in the World Cup. There would be nothing better to dedicate to Bob 's memory , " he said . 12 : 40 Local Time , 02 : 10 GMT , 07 : 40 IST : Eight years ago - on March 17th , 2007 , Pakistan and Ireland met for the first time at the Sabina Park during the 2007 edition of the World Cup. It was a must win match for Pakistan. Fate willed otherwise though and Ireland created history. Pakistan , the 1992 champions found themselves out of the carnival even before it began. The turmoil did n't end there. A few days after their exit , coach , Bob Woolmer , died under mysterious circumstances. A nation already depressed with the on-field happenings were left with shock and numb at the untimely demise of one of the greatest coaches to have graced the game . Preview by G Rajaraman There was a distinct contrast to the buzz at the Adelaide Oval on the eve of Pakistan 's match against Ireland in the ICC Cricket World Cup compared to the last time they were here for their opening game against India a month ago. Back then , hundreds of fans thronged the ground to watch the teams prepare. On Saturday , there were only a handful , almost as if the final training sessions in the league stage were being held behind closed gates . The stakes for the two teams , though , are very high. Neither has been guaranteed a spot in the quarter-finals from Group B behind India and South Africa. Pakistan could do the West Indies a favour with a victory over Ireland on Sunday but if Ireland secure another famous win , they would be shutting the door on one of these two big teams. The West Indies will face the United Arab Emirates in Napier and will be hoping for two outcomes in their favour . There will be a great temptation to simplify Sunday 's match as a contest between Pakistan 's bowlers and Ireland 's batsmen but that must be resisted. On what could turn out to be a batting track , the other battle between Ireland 's bowlers and Pakistan 's batsmen may have a more direct bearing on the outcome. There is no doubt that Pakistan 's batsmen have not come to the party but the Irish bowling does not have one strong performance to show . Pakistan are hoping that the presence of Sarfraz Ahmed , however belated , at the top will breathe life into their campaign. Having sat out of the first four games , Sarfraz Ahmed made a quickfire 49 against South Africa. That innings could be the catalyst which would help the other batsmen discover their mojo in the crucial match. Even if he has not set the Torrens River on fire , skipper Misbah-ul-Haq is the only one who has scored more than 200 runs . Pakistan 's aggressive pace bowling options have helped paper cracks in the batting department. Wahab Riaz ( 11 wickets ) , Sohail Khan ( 9 ) and Mohammad Irfan ( 8 ) have been bolstered in the last three games by the addition of Rahat Ali ( 5 ) to the attack. They are not so overly concerned by the failure of their spinners to take wickets but are relieved that Shahid Afridi has been quite inexpensive . Pakistan 's awareness of Ireland 's mature batting line-up borders on respect for their competence against spin bowling and that could lead them to not considering the claims of leg-spinner Yasir Shah. After an intensive workout , the fast bowlers spent some time squatting beyond the square , listening to bowling consultant Mushtaq Ahmed and enjoying one another 's company. The four of them have won the respect of the skipper , who is seeking to pile pressure on the rivals with frequent wickets . That is exactly what Ireland 's batting will try and prevent on Sunday. With the experience of skipper William Porterfield , Ed Joyce , Niall O'Brien and Kevin O'Brien at the top and with the youthful enterprise of Andrew Balbirnie at their disposal , Ireland will be hoping that they can bank on their batting to pull the rug from under Pakistan 's feet , even if their own bowling has been distinctly docile . Misbah-ul-Haq knows that while his team is in a similar situation to the Wounded Tigers , as Imran Khans team of 1992 has now come to be referred to , his own team can not sit back and say that history will repeat itself. Similarly , Porterfield is well aware that his squad may draw inspiration from Ireland 's win against Pakistan in the 2007 World Cup but will have to turn up at the park with their 'A ' game if they are to realise their dream of making it to the round of eight at the expense of one of the heavyweights . Indeed , history has no bearing on what happens on the park on Sunday . Teams : Pakistan ( From ) : Sarfraz Ahmed ( k ) , Ahmed Shehzad , Younis Khan , Misbah-ul-Haq ( c ) , Sohaib Maqsood , Umar Akmal , Shahid Afridi , Wahab Riaz , Sohail Khan , Rahat Ali , Mohammad Irfan , Ehsan Adil , Yasir Shah , Haris Sohail , Nasir Jamshed Ireland ( From ) : William Porterfield ( c ) , Paul Stirling , Ed Joyce , Niall O'Brien , Andrew Balbirnie , Gary Wilson ( k ) , Kevin O'Brien , Stuart Thompson , John Mooney , George Dockrell , Alex Cusack , Andy McBrine , Max Sorensen , Peter Chase , Craig Young Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
