That 's it from us. Hope you enjoyed our coverage. Tomorrow India take on Bangladesh at the MCG in the second quarter-final of the tournament. Looking forward to your company then. Goodbye ! In what turned out to be a one-sided encounter , we have enlisted some interesting facts for you . JP Duminy became the first South African to take a hat-trick in a World Cup. He also became the second spinner after Saqlain Mushtaq to pick up a hat-trick in the history of the World Cup . Sri Lanka 's modest total of 133 turned out to be their second lowest score against South Africa in World Cups . Interestingly , this was South Africa 's first win in a knockout game in the World Cup . South Africa 's win by 192 balls to spare is the largest victory in terms of balls remaining in a knockout game in World Cups . The one-sided encounter lasted only 55.2 overs. It turned out to be the shortest game in a knockout encounter in the history of the World Cup . With 99 stumpings to his name , Kumar Sangakkara will end up with one short of becoming the first wicket-keeper to effect 100 stumpings in the ODI format . It was a day of history - South Africa broke their WC knock-out jinx while there was no fairytale ending for Sangakkara and Mahela. Here 's a collection of some tweets : @ cricketaakash : Thanks Kumar Sangakkara and Mahela Jayawardene for giving us so much joy...true ambassadors of this beautiful game. An era has ended today ! @ gbhimani : No matter what. Along with patting @ OfficialCSA on the back , its a moment to salute @ KumarSanga2 and @ MahelaJay. Thank you gentlemen # SAvSL @ bhogleharsha : If you have to win your first world cup knockout game , you might as well win it in such style ! # SAvsSL @ dfwhatmore : To @ KumarSanga2 & @ MahelaJay bad luck tonight but well done on your superb careers. Good luck and hope to see you both in the future ! @ TomMoodycricket : Sad to see @ OfficialSLC bailout of the # CWC15 especially when they have to say goodbye to two of their greats @ KumarSanga2 & @ MahelaJay @ rgcricket : The # SAvSL match lasted for only 55.2 overs - shortest ever in a World Cup knock-out.Pak-Aus final in 1999 had lasted for 59.1 overs . # CWC15 @ vikramchandra : Goodbye to two of the legends of the game. This is n't the farewell they would have wanted ! # sangakkara # Jayawardene @ RusselArnold69 : Not what I expected from SL but SA have been simply brilliant today...They have sent a clear message of intent ! ! Congratulations ! ! ! " They ( spinners ) came in at a really crucial stage. I decided to extend the spells of the seamers up front today. We bowled seam till the 14th-15th over. Most teams introduce spin before that. Especially a team that does n't have the 5th bowler option as a frontline bowler. Always knew JP ( Duminy ) was going to have to bowl probably 10 overs. For the two of them ( Duminy and Tahir ) to come up against a sub-continent team and at a crucial stage of the game and to perform like they did , gives a lot of confidence to our spin bowling attack going into the rest of the games. I am quietly confident ( of winning the cup ) . I am always a positive kind of guy. I like to believe in big things. I truly believe we are going to go all the way. Otherwise I would n't be here. But we know there is a long way to go. I spoke to Morne ( Morkel ) now , who loves fishing and I said it 's almost like we 've got the fish on the hook now. Now the hard work starts , you 've got to reel it in and do all the hard work. Two massive games hopefully coming for us. But for now , just go and enjoy a beer and think of what is to come and that 's the semi-finals. " de Villiers : " I did n't have to do too much. The guys were honestly very motivated for this game. I am just very proud of what the guys achieved today. You always never know what to expect in the knockout stages. It 's difficult games , difficult situations. But , we just had a good feeling coming into the ground today and the guys were really in a good space. We really rocked up mentally here today , wanting to win this game. We were almost obsessed with our goal and really went after it. I was going to bat first and I would have backed the batters to have done a good job today. But looking back at the game now , pretty happy that we bowled first. The way the guys set the trend up front - Dale ( Steyn ) , Abbo ( Kyle Abbott ) and Morne ( Morkel ) - just incredible and the rest of the guys followed. He ( Quinton de Kock ) has been going through a tough time. We all know as sports people and cricketers that we go through patches in our careers. A lot of credit has to go to the selectors and the coach and the rest of guys who kept backing him. For him to come off like that today , with a couple of crucial catches and an amazing knock at the end with a really tricky total against a good bowling line-up , was amazing. So it 's good to have Quinny ( de Kock ) back and I am looking forward to the next few games with him up the order. He told me the ball before ( when asked if they knew about Duminy 's hat-trick ) , listen I am on a hat-trick. Are you maybe going to give me another catcher ? So I went to silly-point and just the two of us knew it. I spread the message as soon he got the wicket that , you know it was a hat-trick and the guys were like , no it 's not. The guys got pretty excited when they realised that it was a hat-trick. " Mathews : " Do n't know to be honest. I thought 130 was not too much on this track. There were no demons on the track , we could have batted well. We could have at least got to 250 and given our bowlers a chance , but unfortunately we did n't bat well. Maybe the nerves. We just did n't go for the shots maybe. This is easily the worst performance that we 've done in the World Cup and it happened to be in the quarter-finals. We all know that South Africans have a really good bowling attack , but it 's just that we did n't bat well from ball one. We were not there. I thought we were a bit nervous , but unfortunately , that 's the way it goes. It 's disappointing not to make it a memorable one for Mahela and Sanga. But let me take this opportunity on behalf of the country and the team to thank them for their services. They have rendered their services for more than 16-17 years and it 's invaluable service. So we really salute them and we thank them. The best thing would have been to go to the final and win it for them , but unfortunately we could n't do it and we 'll find a way to try and make them smile. It 's even ( when asked who he thought would win the cup ) . Anything can happen in the knockout stages. All the quarter-finals teams are capable , so I wish them all the very best. " Tahir : " I ca n't complain. Thanks for the people 's support from back home and to all the people who have come here to support us. I really do n't know what to say. I am just really pleased. All my hard work paid off today and I am really glad. This is what I 've got , everything from South Africa. I always feel that I have to pay the country back. I am really pleased and really honoured to be part of this team. Playing with some great players , I just want to do my role. It 's an absolute honour , I am really loving it. If you look at our team , there are some really good and great players. Playing with them is a dream come true and then everyday I get up to feel that I am going to be playing with these guys again. It 's just a great feeling and that 's what motivates me everyday. I think that 's what makes me do well. Definitely , this is the dream ( talking about winning the cup ) . We 've been really working hard as a team for this and we are really hoping for another two good games in our pocket. We 've been doing our hard work. It just depends on how we deliver on that day. I am backing our boys. " Imran Tahir is the Man of the Match for his 4/26 Unfortunately , due to this loss , the legends of Sri Lankan cricket , Sangakkara and Jayawardene could n't end their glittering careers on a high. South Africa played with an aggressive intent and there is no doubt they have sent a strong message to the rest of the teams in the competition that they are serious contenders to lift the coveted trophy . Even seasoned campaigners , Kumar Sangakkara and Mahela Jayawardene could n't revive the sagging spirits of what seemed like a defeated camp. In fact , Sangakkara struggled to rotate the strike and there were passages of play when he looked out of his depth. It was Lahiru Thirimanne , who checked in a slew of fine strokes and tried to up the tempo. However , once he lost his wicket to Tahir , they could n't recover. Only when Sri Lanka lost eight wickets , Sangakkara finally looked to take on South Africa 's bowlers. In short , all of Sri Lanka 's batsmen seemed to be weighed down by the fact that they were playing a big game. Among the bowlers , the debutant Tharindu Kaushal , troubled South Africa 's openers , but their bowlers had too much to do . Earlier in the day , South African bowlers put up a thoroughly professional performance to rip through the opposition 's batting line-up. Dale Steyn and Kyle Abbott bowled with fire and aggression to take wickets early on in the innings. Once Steyn and Abbott put the opposition on the back foot , Tahir made his presence felt. None of Sri Lanka 's batsmen picked the googly and Tahir ended up with four wickets to his name. Tahir also outfoxed the batsmen with subtle changes of pace. Duminy too snared crucial wickets and even took a hat-trick. Incidentally , he became the first South African to take a hat-trick in World Cups . After Imran Tahir and JP Duminy shared seven wickets between them , Quinton de Kock played with composure to brush aside the opposition 's challenge and help South Africa reach the semi-finals. While chasing down a modest target , de Kock and Hashim Amla looked to play aggressively , and it was obvious that South Africa would coast towards victory. The think-tank , in particular , would be pleased with de Kock finding his touch as he composed a quick-fire half-century. This was their first win in knockouts in World Cups. This win also turned out to be the largest victory in terms of balls remaining in knockout games of the World Cup . Sad end to Mahela Jayawardene 's international career and Kumar Sangakkara 's ODI career. Sri Lanka would have wanted to give both the legends a fitting farewell by winning the cup , but it was not to be. They could n't have asked for anything better. A quarter-final at the SCG , which resembled the SSC last Sunday , is just what they wanted , but they were simply not good enough on the day. The South African players shake hands with Sangakkara and Jayawardene. Miller has a long chat with the former. Now Sanga and Mahela hug each other . Allan Donald is happy on the sidelines. Sangakkara walks up to Faf and de Kock to congratulate them. After having a chat with de Kock , he hugs him as well. Jayawardene looks dejected as he walks to congratulate the South African players. de Kock hugs Faf , while their team-mates congratulate each other. Sangakkara waves to the crowd as he walks off the field. Both de Kock and Faf allow Sanga and Mahela to lead the players off the field. The entire South African team comes down to congratulate Sanga and Mahela on a great career . 17.6 Malinga to de Kock , FOUR , South Africa are in the semis. This is the first time that South Africa have won a knock-out match in World Cup cricket. Full and outside off stump , de Kock crashes the drive wide of mid-off and it rockets to the boundary. He punches the air in delight and shows the bat to the dressing room 17.5 Malinga to de Kock , no run , yorker on the stumps , dug out to mid-on 17.4 Malinga to de Kock , no run , bouncer outside off stump , de Kock stays leg-side and looks to upper-cut but fails to make contact 17.4 Malinga to de Kock , wide , short and on the leg stump , de Kock goes for the pull and misses. The umpire does n't like the height on that one 17.3 Malinga to de Kock , 2 runs , full toss outside off stump , de Kock slices it to the right of backward point 17.2 Malinga to du Plessis , 1 run , very full and outside off stump , du Plessis guides it down to third man 17.1 Malinga to de Kock , 3 runs , short of length delivery outside off stump , de Kock rocks back and cuts it to the left of point Lasith Malinga [ 5.0-0-32-1 ] is back into the attack 16.6 Kaushal to du Plessis , no run , tossed up outside off stump , du Plessis looks to drive , gets an inside edge onto pad , the ball goes to the right of the keeper , Sanga tries to dive and grab the ball but it went down very quickly 16.5 Kaushal to du Plessis , no run , flighted delivery from Kaushal , du Plessis looks to defend off the front foot , misses , the ball pops in the air off the pad , Thirimanne runs to his left and takes the catch. Appeals for bat-pad , but the umpire was unmoved and rightly so 16.4 Kaushal to du Plessis , 2 runs , spinning down the leg-side , du Plessis tickles it to fine leg for a couple 16.3 Kaushal to du Plessis , no run , tossed up outside off stump , du Plessis looks to defend and gets hit on the pad. Sri Lanka appeal for LBW but the impact was well outside off stump 16.2 Kaushal to du Plessis , no run , flatter delivery on the off stump , du Plessis defends it to the right of the bowler 16.1 Kaushal to de Kock , 3 runs , flighted delivery spinning away outside off stump , de Kock looks to defend , gets a thick edge , the ball runs away past slip to third man T Kaushal [ 5.0-0-20-0 ] is back into the attack 15.6 Dilshan to de Kock , 1 run , on the leg stump , de Kock flicks it to deep mid-wicket 15.5 Dilshan to de Kock , no run , looks to flick , but gets hit on the pad. The ball was going down the leg-side 15.4 Dilshan to de Kock , 2 runs , flighted delivery on the stumps , de Kock advances and lofts it straight down the ground , Malinga runs to his right from long-on and tidies up 15.3 Dilshan to de Kock , 2 runs , slider from round the wicket , de Kock punches it through cover-point for a couple of runs 15.2 Dilshan to du Plessis , 1 run , down the leg-side , du Plessis works it to mid-wicket 15.1 Dilshan to du Plessis , 2 runs , shortish and outside off stump , du Plessis goes on the back foot and punches it through cover-point for a couple Tillakaratne Dilshan [ 1.0-0-2-0 ] is back into the attack 14.6 T Perera to de Kock , no run , short and on the stumps , de Kock backs away and tries to upper-cut the ball but misses 14.6 T Perera to de Kock , wide , slower ball goes down the leg-side 14.5 T Perera to de Kock , FOUR , in the air , dropped , but a very tough chance. Short ball again from Perera , de Kock advances and pulls but does n't bother to keep it down , hits it high in the air , deep mid-wicket runs to his right , dives full length forward , but only manages to get his fingertips to it. That was a great effort though 14.4 T Perera to de Kock , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , cut well but picks out the fielder at cover 14.3 T Perera to de Kock , FOUR , short and hammered away by de Kock. It was not high enough to trouble the batsman , de Kock waits on the back foot and pulls it powerfully through mid-wicket 14.2 T Perera to du Plessis , 1 run , back of a length outside off stump , dabbed to point 14.1 T Perera to du Plessis , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , du Plessis defends off the back foot Thisara Perera , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 13.6 Kaushal to de Kock , no run , on the leg stump , de Kock pushes it to mid-on 13.5 Kaushal to du Plessis , 1 run , tossed up outside off stump , du Plessis drives it to mid-off 13.4 Kaushal to du Plessis , no run , shortish and outside off stump , punched to point 13.3 Kaushal to de Kock , 1 run , full and on the stumps , de Kock drives it to long-on 13.2 Kaushal to de Kock , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , de Kock defends 13.1 Kaushal to de Kock , 2 runs , flighted delivery on the stumps , de Kock paddles it to fine leg 12.6 Dushmantha Chameera to de Kock , 1 run , fifth ODI fifty for de Kock. What an innings he 's played. South Africa will be delighted to see him get back to form before the semi-final. Short and on the stumps , de Kock pulls it to deep square leg. He raises his bat and acknowledges the applause 12.6 Dushmantha Chameera to de Kock , wide , another one down the leg-side , left alone 12.5 Dushmantha Chameera to du Plessis , 1 run , full and on the leg stump , du Plessis flicks it to deep backward square leg 12.4 Dushmantha Chameera to du Plessis , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , left alone 12.3 Dushmantha Chameera to de Kock , 1 run , pulled nicely but straight to deep square leg 12.2 Dushmantha Chameera to de Kock , leg byes , FOUR , short ball on the stumps , de Kock goes for the pull and misses , the ball hits the helmet and goes over the slip cordon. The South African team thought it came off the bat and were applauding that de Kock completed his fifty. Replays suggest that de Kock got a thin top edge on that. The square leg umpire suggested to Llong that it was leg byes. de Kock , while crossing ends , told Tucker that he hit that 12.2 Dushmantha Chameera to de Kock , 5 wides , oh dear ! Short and down the leg-side , Chameera tried to follow de Kock as he made room but he lost control of the ball. Sanga had no chance 12.1 Dushmantha Chameera to de Kock , FOUR , fullish and on the off stump from round the wicket , de Kock leans forward and drives it nicely along the ground through mid-on 11.6 Kaushal to du Plessis , no run , tossed up outside off stump , du Plessis defends off the front foot 11.5 Kaushal to du Plessis , no run , on the off stump , du Plessis defends off the front foot 11.4 Kaushal to du Plessis , no run , beaten ! Looks like the doosra , du Plessis plays for the off-spin , looks to drive off the front foot , but the ball spins away and beats the edge 11.3 Kaushal to de Kock , 1 run , gets down on one knee and paddles the flighted delivery down to fine leg 11.2 Kaushal to de Kock , no run , flighted delivery around the leg stump , de Kock misses the flick , gets hit on the pad and pops up , but the ball goes wide of short leg. Not sure if there was bat involved Kaushal to come over the wicket 11.1 Kaushal to du Plessis , 1 run , on the off stump , du Plessis flicks it to mid-wicket 10.6 Dushmantha Chameera to du Plessis , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , du Plessis looks to punch , gets a thick outside edge that flies uppishly to third man. End of a 9-ball over 10.6 Dushmantha Chameera to du Plessis , wide , steeply rising short ball from Chameera , du Plessis goes for the pull and misses. Sanga jumps high and grabs the ball. He appeals for a catch but the umpire is n't keen and calls wide for height. It was above du Plessis ' head 10.5 Dushmantha Chameera to du Plessis , 2 runs , flicked nicely and along the ground , good length delivery on the leg stump , du Plessis sends it through backward square leg , Thisara Perera runs to his left from fine leg and tidies up 10.4 Dushmantha Chameera to de Kock , 1 run , short and on the leg stump , de Kock pulls it to deep square leg 10.4 Dushmantha Chameera to de Kock , wide , short delivery down the leg-side , de Kock lets it go 10.3 Dushmantha Chameera to de Kock , no run , pacy yorker at 142.4kph , de Kock was giving himself some room , he was totally beaten for pace and luckily , it was outside off stump 10.3 Dushmantha Chameera to de Kock , no ball , FOUR , Chameera has overstepped and it 's going to be a free-hit. Shortish delivery from Chameera , de Kock pulls , controls it well and sends it along the ground through square leg 10.2 Dushmantha Chameera to de Kock , FOUR , nice shot ! Good length delivery on the off stump , de Kock leans forward and punches it sweetly from the middle of the bat and sends it through the gap between mid-off and cover 10.1 Dushmantha Chameera to du Plessis , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , punched off the back foot towards cover , the fielder dived and half-stopped the ball. As it deflected towards mid-off , du Plessis called for a run Dushmantha Chameera , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 9.6 Kaushal to de Kock , FOUR , too short and too slow , a lot of time for de Kock to rock back and time his cut shot to perfection. The ball goes to the left of backward point and runs away 9.5 Kaushal to de Kock , no run , flighted delivery on the off stump , de Kock defends off the front foot 9.4 Kaushal to du Plessis , 1 run , goes on the back foot and punches it to point 9.3 Kaushal to du Plessis , no run , 'catch it ' is the call but it goes wide of short leg. Flighted delivery down the leg-side , du Plessis misses the flick , the ball seems to have just brushed the pad 9.2 Kaushal to du Plessis , 2 runs , very full and outside off stump , du Plessis leans forward and drives it through cover , Mathews gives chase and hunts it down 9.1 Kaushal to de Kock , 1 run , on the stumps , de Kock flicks it to deep backward square leg Rajaraman spoke with former Sri Lanka coach , Tom Moody , during the supper break. Here 's his reaction to Sri Lanka 's decision to open the batting with Kusal Perera instead of Lahiru Thirimanne. 'I could not understand their decision to change the opening combination. Then they should have played someone ( Tharanga ) who has two World Cups behind him and has 13 ODI hundreds.' 8.6 Malinga to du Plessis , no run , another widish yorker attempted , but this time the umpire is okay with it. du Plessis tries to reach out and squeeze it but misses 8.6 Malinga to du Plessis , wide , du Plessis walks right across the stumps , Malinga bowls a full ball way outside off stump and it 's called a wide , rightly so. Sanga did well to dive to his right and stop the ball Free-hit 8.6 Malinga to de Kock , no ball , 3 runs , oops ! Malinga has overstepped while trying to bowl the bouncer , de Kock pulls it very straight and sends it over mid-on 8.5 Malinga to de Kock , no run , bumper from Malinga , de Kock goes for the hook but misses 8.4 Malinga to du Plessis , 1 run , short and on the stumps , du Plessis pulls well , but long leg runs to his left and tidies up 8.3 Malinga to du Plessis , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , du Plessis defends with an angled bat towards gully 8.2 Malinga to du Plessis , no run , outswinger way outside off stump , left alone There is a man at gully now 8.1 Malinga to du Plessis , 2 runs , short of length delivery outside off stump , du Plessis dabs it wide of the diving fielder at backward point and quickly returns for the second run 7.6 Kaushal to de Kock , no run , nice and full , blocked off the front foot 7.5 Kaushal to de Kock , no run , tossed up and just outside off stump , de Kock leans forward and defends 7.4 Kaushal to de Kock , no run , not full enough to draw de Kock onto the front foot , defended easily off the back foot 7.3 Kaushal to de Kock , no run , spinning away outside off stump , de Kock defends off the back foot 7.2 Kaushal to du Plessis , 1 run , shortish and spinning back in , du Plessis tucks it to backward square leg and sets off 7.1 Kaushal to du Plessis , no run , flatter delivery from Kaushal , du Plessis hangs back and defends , du Plessis read that off the pitch 6.6 Malinga to de Kock , no run , short delivery on the leg stump , de Kock ducks under it 6.5 Malinga to de Kock , FOUR , de Kock continues to bat positively. Slower ball goes very full and outside off stump , de Kock leans forward , waits and drives well with an angled bat through cover-point One slip in place Welcome back. The players are out in the middle . Duminy : " Pretty pleased with that performance ( talking about his hat-trick ) . I do n't think I came close to such a performance. I guess there is a little bit of added pressure to that ( talking about him being doing the fifth bowler 's job ) . Obviously my past performances with the ball in this tournament have n't been good. So it was good to get a good go here today. To bowl 9 overs and obviously contribute to the team was great. It 's been a long time coming for me to contribute with the ball. I 've been working hard at the bowling side of my game , so I am pretty pleased with that. There was n't really a lot of purchase out there , so it was just about keeping the runs down , keeping the singles down and putting the pressure on them and hoping that they would make the mistakes. Fortunately enough , it worked out for us. " 18 : 20 Local Time , 07 : 20 GMT , 12 : 50 IST : On that note , the umpires have decided to take the supper break. The first session was extended because of the rain earlier. South Africa are off to a very good start. Although Amla has been dismissed , the momentum is still with them. South Africa will be delighted to see Quinton de Kock , who has not performed well so far in the tournament , bat freely. With just 94 runs to get , this should just be a formality for the Proteas. However , both Amla and de Kock found it difficult to read mystery spinner Tharindu Kaushal. Can Sri Lanka put up a spirited show and pull off an unlikely win ? Join us back at 19 : 05 local time for the resumption . 6.4 Malinga to Amla , out Caught by N Kulasekara ! ! In the airrrr and that 's a very good catch by Kula. Oh hang on ! They are checking for the no-ball. It 's a very tight call. Looks like there is just something behind the line. What is it third umpire ? He 's fine with Malinga 's foot and Amla has to go. Short and wide outside off stump , Amla reaches out and cuts , does n't bother to keep it down. Third man runs to his right , dives and takes a good low catch. A delighted Kulasekara throws the ball up in the air. Sri Lanka have their first wicket. Amla c N Kulasekara b Malinga 16 ( 23 ) [ 4s-1 ] Malinga to Amla , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 6.3 Malinga to Amla , no run , good length delivery shaping away outside off stump , left alone 6.2 Malinga to Amla , no run , bit of outswing on this fuller length delivery , but not good enough to trouble Amla , who defends this to mid-off 6.2 Malinga to Amla , wide , way outside off stump , Amla lets it go and the umpire calls that a wide 6.1 Malinga to Amla , 2 runs , a good looking gentle off-drive from Amla as Malinga offers a length ball outside off stump , mid-off gives chase and keeps it down to two 5.6 Kaushal to de Kock , no run , the offie this time , de Kock feels for the ball and gets beaten 5.5 Kaushal to de Kock , 2 runs , this one spins back in , de Kock waits for the ball and knocks it behind square on the on-side for a couple of runs Slip and leg gully in place . 5.4 Kaushal to Amla , 3 runs , tosses this up , but it goes as a low full toss , Amla flicks it to deep backward square leg , Kusal fumbles again , this time in the deep and de Kock races back for the third run 5.3 Kaushal to Amla , no run , shorter in length and on the stumps , Amla defends off the back foot 5.2 Kaushal to Amla , no run , doosra on the leg stump , Amla defends 5.1 Kaushal to Amla , no run , round the wicket , flighted delivery down the leg-side , Amla tries to sweep but misses T Kaushal , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Alright ! It 's time for the mystery spinner ! Remember , Mathews called him a " duplicate Muralitharan. " 4.6 Malinga to de Kock , no run , beaten by the slower ball. de Kock was so early into the shot as he checked the drive , luckily for him , he did n't chip it straight to the fielder at cover 4.5 Malinga to de Kock , no run , inswinging yorker again from Malinga , de Kock jams it out 4.4 Malinga to de Kock , no run , back over the wicket and an excellent yorker , this time just outside off stump , de Kock could only dig it out 4.4 Malinga to de Kock , no ball , 2 runs , Kusal Perera is having a bad day at the office. Full and on the leg stump , de Kock flicks , straight to mid-wicket , but Perera fumbles , de Kock wants three , but Amla says no. Malinga overstepped on that occasion and it 's going to be a free-hit 4.3 Malinga to de Kock , FOUR , the attempted slower ball yorker goes as a low full toss , de Kock was beaten by the lack of pace , he actually just threw his bat at it , but ended up slicing it well enough through cover-point. It 's a teasing chase for the fielder and the ball wins the race 4.2 Malinga to de Kock , no run , round the wicket , slingy yorker from Slinga from a very wide angle , de Kock does well to keep it out 4.1 Malinga to Amla , 1 run , short of length on the off stump , worked to mid-wicket 3.6 N Kulasekara to de Kock , no run , could have been the fourth boundary for de Kock , but Thisara Perera makes a good diving save to his right at cover. de Kock drives the length ball very well , but could n't hit the gap 3.5 N Kulasekara to de Kock , FOUR , uses his wrists and punches this short of length from outside off , sends it wide of mid-on and the timing was so good that it gives de Kock the third boundary of the over 3.4 N Kulasekara to de Kock , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , punched into the off-side 3.3 N Kulasekara to de Kock , FOUR , even better ! Short of a length delivery just outside off stump , de Kock gets on top of the bounce and plays a lovely back foot square drive , the ball goes to the left of the man at backward point 3.2 N Kulasekara to de Kock , FOUR , excellent shot ! Short of a length angling away from the left-hander , de Kock waits for the ball and plays a punch with an angled bat , ddid n't try to hit it too hard and placed it perfectly as it raced away through point So just one over off Dilshan then . 3.1 N Kulasekara to Amla , 1 run , starts off with a good length delivery swinging back in , Amla works it along the ground to long leg Nuwan Kulasekara , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 2.6 Malinga to Amla , 1 run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Amla gets across a touch and flicks it along the ground through backward square leg , Amla wants two but de Kock sends him back 2.5 Malinga to Amla , no run , short of length delivery , pushed to mid-on Back over the wicket to Amla 2.4 Malinga to de Kock , 1 run , wow ! Bowls an inswinging toe-crusher on the leg stump , de Kock stays leg-side and just about manages to dig it out , the ball rolls through backward square leg off the inside half of the bat Malinga to come round the wicket to de Kock and he has a slip in place 2.3 Malinga to Amla , 1 run , Amla slashes hard at this length ball and sends it to square third man 2.2 Malinga to Amla , no run , beaten ! Good length delivery swinging away outside off stump , Amla does n't move his feet much , looks to drive but ends up playing from the body , the ball almost kisses the outside edge 2.1 Malinga to Amla , 2 runs , in the air but safe ! Short ball from Malinga , Amla goes for the pull , but does n't get hold of it , does n't hit it too well either for deep backward square leg to have a chance as the ball just clears the infield 1.6 Dilshan to de Kock , no run , on the leg stump , de Kock flicks well , but Thirimanne flies to his right at short mid-wicket and saves a few 1.5 Dilshan to de Kock , no run , fullish and outside off stump , pushed back to the bowler 1.4 Dilshan to de Kock , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , de Kock drives and Mathews makes a good save at cover Just a slip in place for the left-hander 1.3 Dilshan to Amla , 1 run , on the pads again , bad line , Amla flicks it through square leg 1.2 Dilshan to Amla , no run , on the leg stump , nudged into the on-side A slip and leg slip in place 1.1 Dilshan to de Kock , 1 run , round the wicket , slider on the leg stump , tucked to mid-wicket , de Kock opens his account Tillakaratne Dilshan , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Spin at the other end . 0.6 Malinga to Amla , no run , beaten ! Good length delivery outside off stump , Amla goes for the drive , but the late away-swing takes the ball past the outside edge 0.5 Malinga to Amla , no run , Malinga is asking Amla to play away from the body , but the latter simply lets the outswinger go through to Sanga 0.4 Malinga to Amla , no run , bumper outside off stump , Amla was just ball-watching on that occasion. Umpire Nigel Llong signals one bouncer for the over 0.3 Malinga to Amla , no run , Amla stands tall and looks to punch this short of length delivery off the back foot through extra-cover , but the bat turns in his hands and the ball rolls to mid-off 0.2 Malinga to Amla , no run , slightly shorter in length than the previous ball , it was well outside off stump as well , Amla punched it straight to cover 0.1 Malinga to Amla , FOUR , top shot sir ! Amla is making a statement straightaway. Full and in the slot , just a bit of outswing on that occasion , but Amla had it covered and drove the ball all along the ground off the front foot through cover Amla and de Kock are at the crease. Amla is on strike. Malinga will open the attack The players are walking out to the middle. Sri Lanka have a mystery spinner in their ranks today. Can he put on an incredible show on debut and stun the Proteas ? Time will tell ! Sri Lanka then got a bit of respite as it started to rain and play was stopped for a brief period. South Africa should be able to chase down this target. For Sri Lanka , it is imperative that they take wickets with the new ball to have any chance of winning the game . Curiously , Sangakkara could n't keep the scorecard ticking either. It was only after they lost eight wickets , did he open up his shoulders to thump a few boundaries. The bowlers built pressure on Sangakkara by joining the dots , but it was a strange innings from the lynchpin of the line-up. The champion batsman was finally dismissed for 45. The South African camp would be delighted with the efforts of their bowlers. Their fielding was top notch as well. Abbott and Steyn bowled with purpose and Morne Morkel gave a good account of himself. Tahir and Duminy took over from the seamers by sharing seven wickets between them . Earlier , Dale Steyn and Kyle Abbott gave a rousing start by taking wickets with the new ball. Both of them bowled with unrelenting control and ripped through the top-order. It was Lahiru Thirimanne , who shored up Sri Lanka 's innings by unfurling a series of fine shots. However , once Thirimanne was dismissed by Tahir , they sloped towards a paltry total . Imran Tahir and JP Duminy 's splendid spells helped South Africa to skittle out the opposition for a modest total. Tahir , with his variations , kept the Sri Lankan batsmen in check and was rewarded for his efforts with four wickets. To put the icing on the cake , Duminy too snaffled three wickets and became only the first South African to pick up a hat-trick in World Cups. None of Sri Lanka 's batsmen seemed to pick Tahir 's googly and clever changes of pace. Even Kumar Sangakkara , who has amassed four back-to-back hundreds in this World Cup , struggled for timing and placement. In particular , Mahela Jayawardene looked all at sea against Tahir . 37.2 Tahir to Malinga , out Caught by D Miller ! ! All over. Tahir finishes with four. That 's a half-tracker and Malinga has cut straight to the fielder at cover. Rocked back and could 've hit it anywhere , but found the fielder. No big celebrations from Tahir that time. The South Africans walk off. Malinga slams his bat into his leg as he trudges back to the pavilion. It has been an abject batting performance from Sri Lanka. Do n't go anywhere , the South African reply will begin shortly , with just a short changeover between innings. Malinga c D Miller b Tahir 3 ( 6 ) Tahir to Malinga , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 37.1 Tahir to Malinga , no run , punched off the back foot to cover , straight to the fielder Imran Tahir [ 8.0-0-26-3 ] is back into the attack 36.6 M Morkel to Dushmantha Chameera , 2 runs , lifted wide and to the left of mid-on , was in the air and it lobbed the fielder , two it is 36.6 M Morkel to Malinga , no ball , 3 runs , flat-batted over Morkel 's head. The fielder from mid-on ran back and threw the ball back to Morkel , who threw it to de Kock , Dushmantha Chameera looked to plonk his bat in and from the angle that was shown , the bat seemed to be in the air as the keeper whipped the bails off. No-one bothered to check for more replays and even South Africa seemed to be happy with the decision. They went back to their fielding positions. Shane Warne on air thinks it is out , while Russell Arnold wants the BOD to go to the batsman Third umpire called for a run out check. Has Dushmantha Chameera made it ? He is now having a chat with Malinga. Is the bat in the air ? Only one look at the replay and it is given not out. Why ca n't the third umpire have more looks at replays ? Do n't get the logic of having just a look at one angle and then deciding in favor of the batsmen. Has happened a couple of times in this tournament . 36.5 M Morkel to Malinga , no run , when it 's on the stumps , Malinga gets wood , full on the stumps , Malinga defends to point 36.4 M Morkel to Malinga , no run , so close to the outside edge and to the off stump as well. Malinga showing all three stumps for Morkel to it , but the outswinger , swings late and misses both off stump and the outside edge. Morkel has a disappointed look on his face 36.3 M Morkel to Malinga , no run , Malinga moves away from the line of that delivery and is very uncomfortable playing that. Rising back of a length delivery outside off , Malinga arches back and does n't try to get in line , pokes limply out and is beaten Lasith Malinga , right handed bat , comes to the crease And the umpires walk out with blue skies greeting us. We should get play soon. Had no time to put that Kula thing up , because Duminy got a hat-trick. The rain break has given me some time to phrase that and put it up now. Again they are showing the replay of that Kula dismissal. Slip was aghast as Tucker did n't move and put his head down in disappointment. Just then , Kula started to move. Even Duminy was stretching his arms out and pleading with the umpire. Tucker nodded after seeing Kula move . Great sporting act shown by Kula when he got out. In a quarter-final against a rampant South African side , with his side in trouble , he walked when he edged it. South Africa did n't have a review and Kula can bat. Someone needed to hang in there with Sanga and Kula so easily could 've stayed , seeing Tucker unmoved. But he sportingly put his head down and walked off. While walking back , Sanga asked him whether he nicked it and he nodded. Sanga just punched his gloves and sent him. Also Duminy said - 'well played ' or something along those lines to Kula. That 's what I could get from my lip-reading skills. A great moment in a super-charged atmosphere. One for the archives that ! Shaun Pollock was the first to pass the message on , and that too not instantly. As I type this , the covers have been removed and the umpires are out for inspection. So we should restart pretty soon. That was just a minor delay . Hope that clarifies all your doubts about the reserve day. Coming back to the game , what a last 30 minutes or so we have witnessed. Unbelievable stuff. Every ball seemed like a highlights package. Honestly , it was difficult to get everything across on ball-by-ball. Such was the pace. In fact , had not even noticed that Duminy was on a hat-trick. When Duminy took a hat-trick , looks like he was the only one who knew. Or did he ? I 'm just guessing from his celebration . Here 's Rajaraman with more on that : There shall be one reserve day allocated to the quarter-finals , semi-finals and final on which an incomplete match shall be continued from the scheduled day . a ) Every effort will be made to complete the match on the scheduled day with any necessary reduction in overs taking place and only if the minimum number of overs necessary to constitute a match can not be bowled on the scheduled day will the match be completed on the reserve day . b ) If the match has started on the scheduled day and overs are subsequently reduced following an interruption , but no further play is possible , the match will resume on the reserve day at the point where the last ball was played . If a quarter-final is tied , abandoned or if the match is a no result , then the team that finished in the higher position in the Pool stage shall proceed to the semi-finals . As soon as Sangakkara got out , rain started falling down on the SCG turf. Remember if today is washed out , there is a reserve day tomorrow. It has to rain all day today and even then it may not be enough for Sri Lanka. Grey , dull and dark skies but a rainbow has just dotted the landscape. Rain was predicted for today , scattered thundershowers it was said and it has duly arrived . 36.2 M Morkel to Sangakkara , out Caught by D Miller ! ! Straight to third man. Miller wo n't drop that and Morkel grits his teeth and pumps his fist. Hoho ! It has started raining heavily now. What is with South Africa and knockouts in a World Cup ? More on that later. Let 's come back to the wicket. Short and Sangakkara went back to cut , timed it well , but found Miller who clutched it onto his chest and tumbled backwards. Sangakkara found the fielder perfectly. Walks off perhaps for the last time in ODIs , with the rain giving him a fitting farewell. There is a break in play as Sri Lanka are left licking their wounds at 127/9. Sangakkara c D Miller b M Morkel 45 ( 96 ) [ 4s-3 ] M Morkel to Sangakkara , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 36.1 M Morkel to Sangakkara , no run , full and wide outside off , Sangakkara went for a big mow across the line and missed it completely Morne Morkel [ 6.0-1-21-0 ] is back into the attack Rajaraman adds further : Sangakkara is playing a Yuvraj sort of innings ( in the World T20 final ) , but also adds that someone had to stay with him. He 's got going now , and the Lankan section of the crowd are roaring in support . 35.6 Kyle Abbott to Sangakkara , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Sangakkara drives over cover , uppishly to sweeper cover , retains the strike with that run 35.5 Kyle Abbott to Sangakkara , FOUR , slogged but effective. Length outside off , Sangakkara nails the leg-side hit to deep mid-wicket , got it in the gap and that will be the second boundary of the over. Sangakkara has to do it all by himself now and even then that may not be enough 35.4 Kyle Abbott to Sangakkara , 2 runs , now goes well outside off and lifts it over the leaping point , cleared the man and the ball lands safely outside the circle. Two it is 35.3 Kyle Abbott to Sangakkara , FOUR , Sangakkara gets a boundary. Shuffles across well outside off and cuts to the wide and right of the diving point , beats third man diving across after running around. He put in the dive , but the ball beat him and went under his body Batting powerplay on. No need to remind you , but just for the uninitiated 35.2 Kyle Abbott to Sangakkara , no run , Sangakkara does n't take the single after steering uppishly to third man. Wants all the strike now 35.1 Kyle Abbott to Sangakkara , no run , Sangakkara has to take on the bowling and goes for a big slash outside off , it was angled across on a length and Sangakkara misses out Kyle Abbott [ 5.0-1-16-1 ] is back into the attack 34.6 Duminy to Dushmantha Chameera , no run , Dushmantha Chameera calmly blocks the last ball of the over to see off Duminy. What will Sangakkara do now ? 34.5 Duminy to Dushmantha Chameera , no run , very full and wide outside off , Chameera goes for a big drive and misses out , de Kock fumbles as well , but there was no bat involved 34.4 Duminy to Dushmantha Chameera , no run , punched off the back foot to cover 34.3 Duminy to Dushmantha Chameera , no run , gets forward and defends solidly Dushmantha Chameera , right handed bat , comes to the crease 34.2 Duminy to Kaushal , out Lbw ! ! This is unbelievable stuff ! Sangakkara is crest-fallen. Oh ! Duminy has taken a hat-trick here ! Thanks Shaun Pollock for reminding us. I had no clue. Regulation offbreak from Duminy , Kaushal went deep in his crease and looked to defend , but got hit on the back leg , right in front of all three. Easy decision for Tucker. Very easy and Duminy I guess knew it , he started running away in celebration. Kaushal did n't even go to Sangakkara. He just put his head down and walked off. The debutant gets a first-baller. Sensational stuff from South Africa. Kaushal lbw b Duminy 0 ( 1 ) Duminy to Kaushal , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! T Kaushal , right handed bat , comes to the crease 34.1 Duminy to N Kulasekara , out Caught by de Kock ! ! What has happened there ? Kulasekara walks. Huge nick and Tucker did n't give it out immediately. Kula walked as he saw the bowler and keeper celebrating. Duminy nods at Kulasekara and I guess appreciates the batsman 's gesture. I will confirm that to you once I see more replays. This was the slider outside off , held its line and Kulasekara in defending got a big outside edge. Well held by de Kock too for it was a big edge. N Kulasekara c de Kock b Duminy 1 ( 2 ) Duminy to N Kulasekara , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 33.6 Tahir to Sangakkara , no run , even Sangakkara is under pressure , this is a high full toss and he drives it straight to the fielder at cover. Could 've hit it anywhere , but finds the fielder 33.5 Tahir to N Kulasekara , 1 run , low full toss on the pads , flicked to deep mid-wicket , for a single to get off the mark Nuwan Kulasekara , right handed bat , comes to the crease 33.4 Tahir to T Perera , out Caught by Rossouw ! ! SL in huge trouble now. Again Tahir doing the trick. He is running away once more. Allan Donald and the rest of the South African contingent are all smiles. This was the skidder , Perera made the mistake of cutting , it was too close to be playing such a stroke , he was cramped for room too - edges it onto de Kock 's thigh and the ball ricochets to first slip. Is the luck finally going South Africa 's way in a World Cup knockout game ? Looks like it , at least till now. T Perera c Rossouw b Tahir 0 ( 3 ) Tahir to T Perera , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 33.3 Tahir to T Perera , no run , 'catch ' was the call as Perera chipped uppishly. Went for the check-drive and it nearly popped to the right of the diving short cover 33.2 Tahir to T Perera , no run , very full from Tahir and Perera gets a thick inside edge on the drive to short mid-wicket Slip in for Perera 33.1 Tahir to Sangakkara , 1 run , shortish outside off , Sangakkara plays that to sweeper cover , wants two , but he has slipped while turning back for the second. So they settle for a single Thisara Perera , left handed bat , comes to the crease Imran Tahir [ 7.0-0-24-2 ] is back into the attack Angelo Mathews called the SCG - a sort of second home , but it 's anything but that , right now. It 's gone very quiet in the Sri Lankan section of the crowd , says Rajaraman Drinks have been taken at the fall of that wicket 32.6 Duminy to Mathews , out Caught by du Plessis ! ! Mathews has fallen to the pressure. Simple. The runs were n't coming and he had to do something. He charged Duminy and tried to shovel it to leg , did n't get under the ball , got too close to the pitch of it and ended up dragging it to the left of short mid-wicket. Faf was standing in a straightish position , as he has done so all innings. He takes a good catch. Duminy runs to him and celebrates. Mathews leaves a disappointed man. Mathews c du Plessis b Duminy 19 ( 32 ) [ 4s-1 ] Duminy to Mathews , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 32.5 Duminy to Sangakkara , 1 run , Sangakkara calmly nudges a single to short mid-wicket , turns the strike over 32.4 Duminy to Mathews , 1 run , comes down the track and then punches it down to long-on 32.3 Duminy to Mathews , 2 runs , was that an outside edge ? Or did Mathews open the bat face ? I will go with the latter. Through the vacant slip region and it 's a couple of runs 32.2 Duminy to Sangakkara , 1 run , Sangakkara makes room and drives it down to long-on. Again AB runs after that from short mid-wicket and dives , even as he knows he ca n't get to the ball , just put in the dive and faked the motion , like was stopping the ball. Long-on fields in front of him and he gets up to go back to his fielding position 32.1 Duminy to Sangakkara , no run , Sangakkara shows the full face of the bat and drives it back to Duminy 31.6 Steyn to Sangakkara , 1 run , on a good length and on off , Sangakkara gets forward to drive to sweeper cover 31.5 Steyn to Sangakkara , no run , pitched up on off , Sangakkara gets forward and drives wide of the diving cover , but mid-off is there inside the ring to prevent the single being taken 31.4 Steyn to Mathews , 1 run , full and on the stumps , Mathews flicks and beats the diving square leg fielder , not so well-timed but manages to get it in the gap 31.3 Steyn to Mathews , no run , back of a length outside off , defended to cover 31.2 Steyn to Mathews , no run , short of length outside off , punched to mid-off 31.1 Steyn to Mathews , no run , Steyn goes on his knees and belts out a lbw appeal. But Llong says no. Good decision too as the ball was too high when it struck the pad of Mathews. Did it reverse ? Looked like it , Mathews hopping and was beaten on the flick , the ball rapped Mathews above the kneeroll and replays showed that it was going over. Llong gets it right. Surprisingly Steyn was the only one who appealed 30.6 Duminy to Sangakkara , no run , look at that fielding effort from both Duminy and Faf. Sangakkara 's drive eludes Duminy to his right but Faf had run across and dived to his left to stop the single. Brilliant committment from the Proteas in the field 30.5 Duminy to Sangakkara , no run , and again. A carbon copy of the previous delivery. Sangakkara finds Faf at short cover with another mistimed shot 30.4 Duminy to Sangakkara , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Sangakkara drives with a closed face and finds short cover. That ruined all timing 30.3 Duminy to Mathews , 1 run , Mathews gets forward and wrists it to long-on 30.2 Duminy to Sangakkara , 1 run , shortish on the stumps , punched off the back foot to long-off Maybe AB could 've given Morkel one more over. But Sangakkara was on strike. That must have prompted him to throw the ball back to Duminy 30.1 Duminy to Sangakkara , no run , tossed up from round the wicket , driven back to Duminy Jean-Paul Duminy [ 6.0-0-22-0 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Steyn to Mathews , no run , Steyn went for the yorker but gets it a foot short , clipped to the diving fielder at backward square leg 29.5 Steyn to Sangakkara , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Sangakkara bends his knee and creams the drive square of the wicket , for a single 29.4 Steyn to Mathews , 1 run , short outside off , hurries onto Mathews who mistimes the pull to deep mid-wicket , only a single it is 29.3 Steyn to Mathews , no run , pushed off the front foot to mid-off as Steyn went on a good length outside off Amla is at slip for Mathews 29.2 Steyn to Sangakkara , 1 run , drop-and-run into the cover region. Wide of the fielder and Mathews responds well too Just noticed that Sangakkara is on 27 off 73. Never seen such a stat before when Sanga was batting. Perhaps the first time that we have seen that in his ODI career. But he is still there and that 's what Sri Lanka want . 29.1 Steyn to Sangakkara , no run , short of length outside off , punched to cover Dale Steyn [ 5.0-2-13-1 ] is back into the attack 28.6 M Morkel to Mathews , no run , handles that well. Rises tall and then drops the rising delivery down the wicket. Played that with soft hands 28.5 M Morkel to Mathews , no run , inside-edged onto pad and no-one at short leg catching. It would 've been a dolly had there been one. Mathews clearly uncomfortable with this short-pitched stuff from Morkel 28.4 M Morkel to Sangakkara , 1 run , wristed wide of mid-on for an easy single For Mathews there is a leg gully , short square leg , short mid-wicket and predictably Morkel is bowling short 28.3 M Morkel to Mathews , 1 run , nearly a catch ! Rossouw at short square leg , stumbled while going for the catch and that put him off. He gets up and has a wry smile on his face. Short delivery on the hips , Mathews early into the flick , the ball flies away past the dive of Rossouw. Good hostile , well-directed and well-planned short bowling from Morkel Immediately Mathews takes his glove off and calls for some medical attention. South Africa too take the time to have some drinks 28.2 M Morkel to Mathews , no run , that has hit Mathews on the glove. Well-directed short delivery from Morkel , right at the left shoulder of Mathews who was trying to duck under the ball , but was late in doing so , the ball pinged the glove and ricocheted onto the shoulder. Fell safely on the off-side 28.1 M Morkel to Sangakkara , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Sangakkara gets forward to drive to sweeper cover , for a single that brings up the 100. The papare bands make their appearance 27.6 Tahir to Mathews , no run , Mathews was shaping up for the big cut , but the ball bounced extra and that forced Mathews to adjust , defended to point in the end 27.5 Tahir to Sangakkara , 1 run , Sangakkara comes on the front foot and eases a single to long-off 27.4 Tahir to Sangakkara , no run , very quick and punched back to Tahir 's left 27.3 Tahir to Mathews , 1 run , now calmly knocks a single to long-on , sensible batting 27.2 Tahir to Mathews , FOUR , Mathews picks the googly and goes over mid-wicket. Mathews goes deep in his crease and then hoicks the full one , one bounce over the ropes at deep mid-wicket. That boundary was needed by the Sri Lankans for the pressure was building up 27.1 Tahir to Mathews , no run , tossed up on middle , pushed to short mid-wicket 26.6 M Morkel to Sangakkara , no run , short and angling away from the left-hander , Sangakkara drops his wrists and lets it go 26.5 M Morkel to Mathews , 1 run , short and at the body , Mathews helps it down to fine leg 26.4 M Morkel to Mathews , 2 runs , steeply rising short of length delivery , Mathews hops and glances it fine to fine leg 26.3 M Morkel to Mathews , no run , short of length and into the body , Mathews gets inside the line and tucks it to backward square leg , close in 26.2 M Morkel to Mathews , no run , short of length outside off , Mathews hops and defends to mid-off A slip in for Mathews 26.1 M Morkel to Sangakkara , 1 run , full and wide outside off , Sangakkara square drives and gets it wide of the diving point , down to sweeper cover Morne Morkel [ 4.0-1-14-0 ] is back into the attack 25.6 Tahir to Sangakkara , 1 run , uses his feet and drives to long-off for a single 25.5 Tahir to Sangakkara , no run , down leg , Sangakkara closes the face of the bat and nudges it to short fine , says 'no ' to Mathews 25.4 Tahir to Sangakkara , no run , well tossed up on middle , Sangakkara presents the full face of the bat , back to the bowler 25.3 Tahir to Mathews , 1 run , Mathews gets forward and turns the low full toss to deep mid-wicket Six fielders inside the ring 25.2 Tahir to Mathews , no run , another defensive stroke and the short cover is in very close to cut off the single 25.1 Tahir to Mathews , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Mathews gets forward to defend to short cover 24.6 Duminy to Mathews , 1 run , clipped wide and to the right of the diving short mid-wicket fielder 24.5 Duminy to Sangakkara , 1 run , Sangakkara gets forward and then drives to the right and places it wide of the diving bowler 24.4 Duminy to Sangakkara , no run , tossed up on the stumps , driven straight back to Duminy 24.3 Duminy to Sangakkara , no run , driven to Duminy 's right who dives and deflects the ball to short cover 24.2 Duminy to Mathews , 1 run , Mathews takes a step out and drives to long-on Duminy is running back to his mark to bowl. Hurrying the batsmen 24.1 Duminy to Mathews , no run , tossed up outside off , defended to the right of Duminy who fields Phew Duminy and Tahir are running through the overs pretty quickly. It is so difficult to keep up the pace when you are on ball-by-ball comms. But it goes with the territory , I suppose. But great work being done by the spinners at the moment Our man Rajaraman chimes in about MJ 's dismissal : Soft dismissal that - he was n't picking Tahir one bit and was literally playing into his hands . 23.6 Tahir to Sangakkara , 2 runs , flighted outside off , the googly too , Sangakkara opens the face of the bat and drives in the air , but in the gap to deep backward point , for a couple 23.5 Tahir to Sangakkara , no run , very full and on off , Sangakkara digs it out to the right of the bowler 23.4 Tahir to Mathews , 1 run , 'catch , ohhh ! ' was the shout from Tahir and de Kock as Mathews drove uppishly , but wide of the short cover diving across 23.3 Tahir to Mathews , no run , tossed up outside off , Mathews gets forward to defend 23.2 Tahir to Mathews , no run , pushed to short mid-wicket from the crease Angelo Mathews , right handed bat , comes to the crease 23.1 Tahir to M Jayawardene , out Caught by du Plessis ! ! Tahir gets another. SA all over SL. Jayawardene was in all sorts of trouble against Tahir and he has picked out short mid-wicket with a tame pull. It skidded onto the batsman who was in no position to pull , the hurrying pace of the ball from the wicket , cramped Jayawardene and in the end it must be said , it 's a very soft dismissal. May well be the last time we will see the artist in action with the bat in ODIs. M Jayawardene c du Plessis b Tahir 4 ( 16 ) Tahir to M Jayawardene , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 22.6 Duminy to M Jayawardene , 1 run , short outside off , dabbed late and down to deep backward point , single 22.5 Duminy to Sangakkara , 1 run , tossed up on leg , flicked to deep mid-wicket , for a single 22.4 Duminy to Sangakkara , no run , gets forward and pushes it to short mid-wicket , who dives to his right to field 22.3 Duminy to M Jayawardene , 1 run , dabbed to backward point , confusion between the batsmen , Sangakkara was halfway down , it was stopped with a dive and the ball slipped away from the fielder 's grasp , then Jayawardene moved and got to the other end. If the fielder had picked it up cleanly , Jayawardene might have been struggling 22.2 Duminy to Sangakkara , 1 run , shortish outside off , punched off the back foot to sweeper cover 22.1 Duminy to Sangakkara , no run , cut from off stump , but to point 21.6 Tahir to M Jayawardene , no run , huge appeal. Big appeal. Tahir jumping up and down , pleaded with the umpire. Jayawardene did n't pick the googly , was struck on the pads , low as well , but Jayawardene had got outside the line of off. That saved him. Was trying to defend that and missed. He surely is n't picking Tahir at all. Good bowling. de Kock told AB to go for the review. SA do n't have a review left First review ! Tahir wants a lbw against Jayawardene. Given not out , we have the third umpire 's conversation with the umpire audible on TV. " It 's a fair delivery Nigel. Can we get the spin vision please ? Can we have RTS ( Real-Time Snicko ) please ? Nigel , I am happy that there is no bat involved. Can we move on to ball-tracking please ? Nigel , the ball has pitched outside off stump , the impact is umpire 's call and you can stay with your original decision, ' says the third ump Richard Kettleborough. Big moment in the game. Jayawardene stays ! 21.5 Tahir to M Jayawardene , no run , wristed to short mid-wicket , where it is fielded 21.4 Tahir to M Jayawardene , no run , Tahir beats Jayawardene again. With a leggie , Jayawardene picked that but was late in pulling the bat inside the line , the ball was n't far away from the edge 21.3 Tahir to M Jayawardene , no run , tossed up outside off , 'no wait ' is the call from Jayawardene to Sangakkara as he defends off the front foot to point 21.2 Tahir to Sangakkara , 1 run , very full on the stumps , driven to long-off Probably the last time we will get to see these two bat in ODIs for Sri Lanka 21.1 Tahir to Sangakkara , no run , shortish , punched back to Tahir 20.6 Duminy to Sangakkara , 1 run , Sangakkara gets forward and drives to long-off , retains the strike with that run 20.5 Duminy to Sangakkara , no run , flicked off the pads , straight to the fielder at short mid-wicket 20.4 Duminy to M Jayawardene , 1 run , clipped to deep backward square leg 20.3 Duminy to M Jayawardene , no run , Jayawardene misses out on the clip , was there an inside edge onto the pads ? Or was it spinning down leg ? Either ways there was no real appeal from South Africa , it looked close to the naked eye as Jayawardene had shuffled across his stumps 20.2 Duminy to M Jayawardene , no run , that 's much better. Floated up outside off , Jayawardene wrists it to short mid-wicket. Shouts of encouragement from the South Africans 20.2 Duminy to M Jayawardene , wide , poor bowling , well down leg , spinning further down , good take by de Kock 20.1 Duminy to M Jayawardene , no run , again a little shuffle and turned to short mid-wicket 20.1 Duminy to M Jayawardene , wide , Jayawardene shuffles across and shows a bit of leg stump , but the offbreak spins down leg 19.6 Tahir to M Jayawardene , 1 run , flicked wide and to the right of the diving short mid-wicket man 19.5 Tahir to M Jayawardene , no run , Tahir beats Jayawardene with a leggie. Jayawardene is n't picking Tahir , at least so far. Pushed out to defend and the ball turned away. Tahir thought he had found the nick 19.4 Tahir to M Jayawardene , no run , wristed straight to the fielder at short mid-wicket A slip in for Jayawardene 19.3 Tahir to M Jayawardene , leg byes , 2 runs , the googly from Tahir , looked like Jayawardene did n't pick it , but it runs off the pad and its two leg byes 19.2 Tahir to M Jayawardene , no run , cautiously defended by Jayawardene as the ball bounces a bit extra. Played with soft hands Mahela Jayawardene , right handed bat , comes to the crease 19.1 Tahir to Thirimanne , out Caught&Bowled ! ! Tahir is running away. Trademark celebration. The ball stops on Thirimanne and he is caught and bowled. Tahir changed the angle and came round the wicket , the ball stuck in the wicket , Thirimanne early into the forward bunt , gets it off the splice and it lobs to Tahir 's left , who takes a simple catch. No-one is catching him when he runs away. That 's for sure. Thirimanne c and b Tahir 41 ( 48 ) [ 4s-5 ] Tahir to Thirimanne , THATS OUT ! ! Caught&Bowled ! ! 18.6 Duminy to Thirimanne , 1 run , look at Duminy , he is at the feet of Sangakkara , pushing the batsman away , trying to stop the ball. That 's how desperate they are to prevent runs being leaked , but Duminy 's effort goes in vain 18.5 Duminy to Thirimanne , no run , now AB at short mid-wicket slides to his right to cut off the single. Narrowed down the angle well there 18.4 Duminy to Sangakkara , 1 run , flatter down leg , clipped to deep square leg , for a single 18.3 Duminy to Sangakkara , 2 runs , down leg , Sangakkara gets a faint tickle on the nudge to fine leg , two it is 18.2 Duminy to Thirimanne , 1 run , punched off the back foot and wide of the diving point , to the left of the man. The batsmen cross over only after the ball has gone past point 18.1 Duminy to Thirimanne , no run , angling in , driven to short mid-wicket 's right who fields 17.6 Tahir to Sangakkara , no run , driven wide of cover where du Plessis dives to his left and cuts off the possibility of a single 17.5 Tahir to Thirimanne , 3 runs , outside edge and through the vacant slip position. Thirimanne went for a big drive and got lucky. They take three as Tahir has his hands on his head 17.4 Tahir to Thirimanne , no run , Thirimanne is early into the punch and the ball takes the inside edge and goes to short mid-wicket 17.3 Tahir to Sangakkara , 1 run , Sangakkara comes down the track and takes it on the full , driven to long-off 17.3 Tahir to Sangakkara , wide , well down leg , Sangakkara sweeps and misses , wide called 17.2 Tahir to Thirimanne , 1 run , Thirimanne makes room slightly and eases a drive to long-off 17.1 Tahir to Thirimanne , no run , Thirimanne gets forward and drives straight to the fielder at cover 16.6 Duminy to Thirimanne , 1 run , shortish on the stumps , punched to the left and wide of the diving Duminy 16.5 Duminy to Sangakkara , 1 run , driven to long-off , off the front foot 16.4 Duminy to Sangakkara , no run , again skips out and pad-bats it away , as he was n't to the pitch of the ball 16.3 Duminy to Sangakkara , no run , comes down the track and then finds Duminy , driving back to the bowler 16.2 Duminy to Sangakkara , no run , Sangakkara mistimes the cover drive , the ball rolls square of the wicket 16.1 Duminy to Thirimanne , 1 run , tossed up outside off , driven to sweeper cover 15.6 Tahir to Sangakkara , FOUR , that 's a pre-meditated shot and Sangakkara connects. Shuffles well across his stumps and goes over backward square leg , knows he has to get it over the men inside and did so. Bounces away into the ropes 15.5 Tahir to Sangakkara , no run , Tahir is an excited man. But there was no edge on that. But a ripper of a delivery from Tahir , beat Sangakkara all ends up , drew the batsman forward and the slight turn away beat the batsman who overbalanced on the shot. de Kock though failed to glove the ball properly 15.4 Tahir to Sangakkara , no run , nudged straight to the fielder at square leg 15.3 Tahir to Thirimanne , 1 run , flatter and punched of the back foot to long-off 15.2 Tahir to Thirimanne , no run , driven wide of cover , but he dives across to his left and prevents the single Tahir is bowling from over the wicket with no-one catching behind the stumps 15.1 Tahir to Thirimanne , no run , nice start from Tahir , well tossed up on the stumps , Thirimanne gets forward to defend it back to Tahir Imran Tahir , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack Steyn has an underrated bouncer , where he flicks his wrist to get it to climb awkwardly on the batsman. He also rarely wastes a bouncer. Another key ingredient of Steyn 's bowling is that he seems to have a great 'feel ' for the ball and that helps him to penetrate every crevice in a batsman  s defence and plot his dismissal with those subtle changes of wrist and fingers. Steyn has undoubtedly come a long way from the days when Phil Jacques plundered him for runs in an ODI against Australia in Melbourne ( Docklands ) in 2005 to become the spearhead of the pace attack. Let us have a look at his partner in crime , Morkel , in the next part . Born with those 'fast-twitch muscle fibres ' he was made to bowl quick. With an effortless run-up and a side-on action , Steyn bowls razor sharp outswingers and hurries the batsman with pace. Steyn also zips through the crease quickly. He never snaps or rams his front leg hard. In fact , it is hard to remember a fast bowler , who could go through the crease quicker. When one discusses this aspect of Steyn with old-timers , there is a feeling that Malcolm Marshall was the one bowler , who matched him in that regard . Over the years , Steyn and Morkel have established themselves as a fearsome pace duo. So , here is also a look at the lynchpins of South Africa 's pace attack. The silkiness of the run-up , dazzling range of weaponry and those cold determined eyes with which Steyn dismantles opposition ranks can leave you spellbound. Steyn , the small town boy from Phalaborwa , is certainly bestowed with god-gifted skills . On the other hand , Dale Steyn found a bit of shape away from the right-handed Tillakaratne Dilshan and eventually , dismissed him with a short of a length delivery. However , South Africa would be concerned with the fact that Steyn seemed to have a problem with his neck. It was Morne Morkel , who replaced Steyn , and he extracted searing bounce from a length and bowled with very good pace. However , he struggled with his line. Their opponents , Sri Lanka , need Sangakkara to play one of those masterful knocks. It is curious to note that for a knockout game , Sri Lanka decided to open with Perera instead of Lahiru Thirimanne , who has been in fine form in this World Cup. In fact , it was Thirimanne , who looked to take on the South African bowlers by essaying a few boundaries . It was Kyle Abbott , who made the initial breakthrough by dismissing Kushal Perera. It was a nervy innings by Perera as he looked to slash at anything that was outside the off-stump and paid the price. When Perera is n't given the chance to free his arms , he struggles. The credit has to go to Abbott for pitching the ball up and drawing the batsman forward , and Quinton de Kock for taking an excellent catch behind the stumps. Abbott has been in fine form for South Africa in this World Cup. He also troubled Kumar Sangakkara by shaping it back into him and a close lbw shout was turned down . Time for drinks. Time for Bharath Ramaraj ! 14.6 Duminy to Thirimanne , 1 run , very full outside off , Thirimanne gets forward to drive to deep extra cover , for a single 14.5 Duminy to Thirimanne , no run , sliding on , Thirimanne softly turns it to the left of the bowler 14.4 Duminy to Sangakkara , 1 run , low full toss , Sangakkara gets forward and eases it to long-on 14.3 Duminy to Sangakkara , no run , flicked to short mid-wicket 14.2 Duminy to Thirimanne , 1 run , well tossed up outside off , driven to deep extra cover , for a single Allan Donald is seen bellowing out instructions to Kyle Abbott. Animated is White Lightning ! 14.1 Duminy to Thirimanne , no run , Duminy comes on from round the wicket and starts with a slider , Thirimanne gets forward to block Jean-Paul Duminy , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 13.6 Kyle Abbott to Sangakkara , no run , Sangakkara wants a change of bat after he toe-ended the front foot drive to cover. The ball hit the bottom of the bat and rolled to cover. Sanga immediately signals for a new piece of wood 13.5 Kyle Abbott to Sangakkara , no run , pushed off the front foot wide of cover , but the fielder moves quickly to prevent the possibility of a quick single 13.4 Kyle Abbott to Sangakkara , no run , pitched up on off , Sangakkara drives and picks out short cover 13.3 Kyle Abbott to Sangakkara , no run , short of length outside off , punched straight to the fielder at point 13.2 Kyle Abbott to Thirimanne , 1 run , Sangakkara sends Thirimanne back , rejecting the second , flicked to deep mid-wicket. Miller was the man and Sangakkara made the right call as Miller 's arm is very powerful 13.1 Kyle Abbott to Thirimanne , no run , on a good length and on off , Thirimanne defends to point with an open face This is Sangakkara at his tactical best. Knows that his wicket is key , not only to this innings but also to the eventual result of the game. That 's why he is playing a Test match innings. Also knows that the fifth bowler is one area he can cash in on , if he stays there till the end. 5 off 34 at the moment , but he can make it up very quickly. He is just waiting for the right moment and the right time to up the strike-rate. Still his wicket is the one South Africa would be craving for . 12.6 M Morkel to Sangakkara , no run , looks for a drop-and-run into theshort cover region , but there is no quick single available 12.5 M Morkel to Sangakkara , no run , that 's a good drive , but Sangakkara picks out AB at mid-off. Controlled drive along the ground as Sangakkara closed the bat face to ensure he did n't hit it in the air 12.4 M Morkel to Sangakkara , no run , back to leaving is Sangakkara as Morkel probes away 12.3 M Morkel to Sangakkara , byes , FOUR , de Kock had no chance there. The ball bounced steeply and swung away late after Sangakkara had left it. de Kock leapt to his left but the ball missed the glove. Did n't even get a fingertip on it 12.2 M Morkel to Sangakkara , no run , Morkel is getting steep bounce from a back of a length area , Sangakkara though shoulders arms as the line was outside off 12.1 M Morkel to Sangakkara , no run , Sangakkara saw that full delivery outside off and wanted to go after that , but decided to leave it. Looked for a wide , but it was inside the guideline 11.6 Kyle Abbott to Thirimanne , no run , looked like the cutter from Kyle Abbott , Thirimanne sees that and lets it go. The ball bounces to de Kock before he could gather 11.5 Kyle Abbott to Thirimanne , no run , a punch off the front foot , but straight to the fielder at mid-off. Thirimanne 's bat face was straight and it came right off the middle of the bat 11.4 Kyle Abbott to Sangakkara , 3 runs , Sangakkara gets the cover drive going , wide of mid-off and Steyn runs back to dive near the ropes to pull it back , saves a run , but that was well-timed by Sangakkara off the front foot 11.3 Kyle Abbott to Thirimanne , 1 run , a thick outside edge as Thirimanne went for the drive away from the body , but no gully and it races through the vacant third man area 11.2 Kyle Abbott to Thirimanne , no run , Kyle Abbott cramps Thirimanne for room and the batsman defends to point 11.1 Kyle Abbott to Thirimanne , no run , great fielding by Duminy at cover-point , he dives full length to his right and then saves a definite boundary. Thirimanne once again creamed that off the front foot and was only stopped by a superb piece of fielding Kyle Abbott [ 3.0-1-11-1 ] is back into the attack 10.6 M Morkel to Sangakkara , no run , was there bat involved ? Sangakkara on the hop as he failed to deal with the sharp nip-backer from Morkel , it nipped back in and caught him on the shuffle , need a replay to confirm whether there was an inside edge onto the pads. Anyway it did n't matter as the ball did n't carry to point. Too high to warrant a serious lbw appeal. Morkel has his hands on his head 10.5 M Morkel to Sangakkara , no run , rising and on Sangakkara 's body , he hops and drops it down the wicket with soft hands 10.4 M Morkel to Sangakkara , no run , pushed across Sangakkara , who gets forward and lifts his bat high over his head , to let it go 10.3 M Morkel to Thirimanne , 1 run , pushed off the front foot wide of mid-off and a quick single taken 10.2 M Morkel to Thirimanne , no run , a loud shout of 'no ' from Thirimanne as he defends to cover-point off the front foot 10.2 M Morkel to Sangakkara , 2 wides , Morkel sprays it well down leg and the late swing makes it impossible for de Kock to stop it. He dived to his right , but the ball hit the edge of the glove and ricocheted away to fine leg Morkel is lacing his boots. A slight delay. A field change as well as AB gets into the act 10.1 M Morkel to Sangakkara , no run , angled across Sangakkara who is content to leave all those ones outside off to go to de Kock 9.6 Steyn to Sangakkara , 1 run , short and down leg , Sangakkara swivel-pulls to fine leg , for a single 9.5 Steyn to Thirimanne , 1 run , now driven wide of mid-off , easy single 9.4 Steyn to Thirimanne , FOUR , Thirimanne is taking the pressure off Sangakkara. He is the one who is playing the strokes and taking on the bowlers. When he sees a bit of width he goes after the bowling. Full and wide outside off , lofted over mid-off. Calculated , but without any risk for he was always clearing the fielder 9.3 Steyn to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length outside off , Thirimanne gets forward and punches it into the cover region 9.2 Steyn to Thirimanne , 2 runs , flicked wide of mid-on , Tahir gives chase and keeps it to a couple You have to watch Steyn 's reaction after getting Dilshan. What a roar that was accompanied by those eyes. The veins on his neck were clearly visible as well. So easily could 've popped a nerve there ! But does Steyn care ? I do n't think so. YouTube stuff ! 9.1 Steyn to Thirimanne , no run , Thirimanne gets a bit squared up and defends to cover , the bat turned on impact 8.6 M Morkel to Thirimanne , 1 run , defended to mid-off , Thirimanne knew he had played it wide of AB and set off , Sangakkara responded well too Back over the wicket now 8.5 M Morkel to Thirimanne , FOUR , no fingertip stuff that time. Crunching lofted cover drive. Over the leaping man at cover. Deliberately hit in the air and that 's now four boundaries for Thirimanne. Morkel a bit too full and too wide outside off , allowing Thirimanne to free his arms 8.4 M Morkel to Thirimanne , FOUR , Rossouw is a disappointed man at point. It was n't an easy catch. Those are the ones that has to stick. A square drive in the air from Thirimanne , Rossouw went to his left as he flew but the timing and the pace on the shot eluded his dive. Did n't even get a fingertip in the end 8.3 M Morkel to Thirimanne , no run , another fine short delivery , Morkel bent his back and dug the short ball in , it was directed at the batsman too , who arched his back and lets it go. Well bowled 8.2 M Morkel to Thirimanne , no run , de Kock had to leap to gather that. Thirimanne going for an almighty slash to a rising delivery outside off and is beaten. Too quick for Thirimanne 8.1 M Morkel to Thirimanne , no run , nips back in sharply and takes Thirimanne by surprise. He was pressing forward to block and the extra bounce and movement , took the inside edge and landed on the right thigh. Morkel 's followthrough gets bigger Our man G Rajaraman is at the ground and he says it 's half-full at the moment , but there were long queues at the Sydney Central station from where there have been free couch services for people getting into the ground. Expect a full house as the game progresses . 7.6 Steyn to Sangakkara , no run , pitched up outside off , Sangakkara gets forward and drills a picture-perfect off-drive , but picks out mid-off for the third time in the over 7.5 Steyn to Sangakkara , no run , Sangakkara is timing them well , but again finds the fielder. A check-drive now to mid-off 7.4 Steyn to Sangakkara , no run , Sangakkara lifts his bat and lets it go to a ball outside off 7.3 Steyn to Sangakkara , no run , Steyn is giving nothing away , tight delivery on the stumps , Sangakkara defends to the left of Steyn 7.2 Steyn to Sangakkara , no run , on a good length and on off , Sangakkara gets forward to defend solidly to cover 7.1 Steyn to Sangakkara , no run , nice off-drive , with the full face of the bat shown , but straight to the fielder at mid-off Dale Steyn [ 3.0-1-5-1 ] is back into the attack 6.6 M Morkel to Thirimanne , no run , Morkel does n't go for anything off the free-hit. Gets the short ball to rear up outside off , Thirimanne has to fetch the pull from there , mistimed to mid-wicket Free-hit time 6.6 M Morkel to Thirimanne , no ball , Morkel changes his angle and goes round the wicket , but oversteps , dug in short and down leg , left alone 6.5 M Morkel to Sangakkara , 1 run , finally off the mark ! On the hips , glanced to fine leg , easy ball to relieve some pressure 6.4 M Morkel to Sangakkara , no run , another leave outside off as Morkel probes away. The ball swings after Sangakkara had left it alone Sangakkara has faced 14 balls and he is not off the mark yet. How often have we seen that in recent times ? Shows how well the South Africans are bowling at the moment. They look pumped as a team and the intensity on the field is a sight to behold from the Proteas. Sanga is just content to play the patience game for now 6.3 M Morkel to Sangakkara , no run , rising delivery outside off , Sangakkara leaves and de Kock takes it over his head 6.2 M Morkel to Sangakkara , no run , on a good length and outside off , Sangakkara shoulders arms 6.1 M Morkel to Sangakkara , no run , dug in short outside off , left alone Morne Morkel , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 5.6 Kyle Abbott to Thirimanne , no run , a confident forward defence to short cover as Thirimanne ends the over well 5.5 Kyle Abbott to Thirimanne , FOUR , AB gives a great chase but Thirimanne 's drive is too good. A cracking shot on-the-up , wide of cover , AB was always losing the battle on a fast outfield , but he never gave up , ran at full pelt and dived head-first , pulled the ball back , but the ball ricocheted off the chin and went away over the ad-cushions. He gets up quickly and runs back. So easily could 've collided with the ad-boards there , but stopped his body momentum beautifully. What an athlete ! 5.4 Kyle Abbott to Thirimanne , FOUR , first boundary of the game. And its a confident stroke from Thirimanne. Down on one knee and a classy cover drive as Kyle Abbott went a bit full and wide 5.3 Kyle Abbott to Thirimanne , no run , pitched up outside off , Thirimanne went hard on the cover drive and bottom-edged it down the wicket. Has a look at the toe-end of the bat after playing the stroke 5.2 Kyle Abbott to Thirimanne , 2 runs , Thirimanne went for a big drive and got a thick inside edge wide of square leg for a couple of runs 5.1 Kyle Abbott to Thirimanne , no run , short of length on off , solidly defended back to the bowler Steyn is walking off. The physio is outside the ad-cushions , wanting to check on the quickie. The back of his neck is the problem. A rub-down is going on at the moment 4.6 Steyn to Sangakkara , no run , almost a wide , full and wide outside off , just inside the guideline as Sangakkara lets it go , Steyn gets away with one Steyn is feeling the base of his neck. Now AB is checking on him. Steyn looks to be in some discomfort. Did the reaction to Dilshan 's wicket had anything to do with it ? He wants to finish this over off and then see what can be done 4.6 Steyn to Sangakkara , wide , down leg , Sangakkara lets it go , called a wide 4.5 Steyn to Sangakkara , no run , pitched up outside off , Sangakkara square drives with an open face and finds point , who goes to his right to field. Another smart stop 4.4 Steyn to Sangakkara , no run , driven wide of cover , Sangakkara wanted a single initially , but then saw the fielder , so shouted 'no , no ' to send Thirimanne back. Cover slid to his left and fielded it 4.3 Steyn to Thirimanne , 1 run , short of length outside off , rising too , Thirimanne opens the face of the bat and guides it to square third man , for a single to get off the mark 4.2 Steyn to Thirimanne , no run , full and outside off , Thirimanne gets forward and shoulders arms Lahiru Thirimanne , left handed bat , comes to the crease 4.1 Steyn to Dilshan , out Caught by du Plessis ! ! Steyn 's eyes nearly pop out. Look at that reaction. Never seen Steyn so animated and aggressive on a cricket field before. It was a back of a length delivery outside off , Dilshan went for the front foot punch and edged it behind , the edge was dying on 2nd slip 's right who moved smartly and cupped it low. Rolled over and then got up to celebrate. But the real celebration came from Steyn who let it rip. More on that soon , when I have time and get to see a few replays. Sri Lanka in trouble early on. Dilshan c du Plessis b Steyn 0 ( 7 ) Steyn to Dilshan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 3.6 Kyle Abbott to Sangakkara , no run , much better leave this. It nipped back in and was n't far away from the off stump , but Sangakkara gets forward and confidently shoulders arms. Trusted the bounce and also his instinct to let that go 3.5 Kyle Abbott to Sangakkara , no run , that 's a confident leave. Good length outside off , left alone 3.4 Kyle Abbott to Sangakkara , no run , now beats Sangakkara outside off , with the angle doing the trick again. Sangakkara looking a bit suspect outside off , against Kyle Abbott , who is getting seam movement. Sangakkara pushed out and was lucky not to have edged it behind. Terrific bowling though 3.3 Kyle Abbott to Sangakkara , no run , loud shout for lbw ! But Llong has ruled that not out. Kyle Abbott went up in a big way. Nips back in and misses the inside edge of Sangakkara , misses the pad and hits the batsman on the back leg. Replays show that it would 've gone over. They thought about the review but AB said it was too high and rejected the idea 3.2 Kyle Abbott to Sangakkara , no run , on a length and outside off , left alone 3.2 Kyle Abbott to Sangakkara , wide , swing for Kyle Abbott , but down leg , so called a wide Looks like the hardness of the surface has taken a little layer out from the ball. The umpires take their time to sort that out. The new ball is replaced by another similar one 3.1 Kyle Abbott to Sangakkara , no run , that is a ripper. Beats Sangakkara all ends up. Pitches on middle and the angle across Sangakkara beats the batsman who was looking to cover the line and defend , the seam movement made the ball beat the bat. Too good even for Sangakkara , who is in the form of his life 2.6 Steyn to Dilshan , no run , a little shape away from Dilshan , who gets forward and pushes it to short cover 2.5 Steyn to Dilshan , no run , pitched up on the stumps , Dilshan drives without any timing to mid-on 2.4 Steyn to Dilshan , no run , that flew through to de Kock. Dilshan staying rooted to the crease and getting beaten on the slash. The extra bounce did Dilshan in 2.3 Steyn to Dilshan , no run , driven straight to the fielder at short cover Two slips and a short cover in place 2.2 Steyn to Dilshan , no run , good ball from Steyn , on middle , on a fuller length , Dilshan wanted to clip that to leg , the bat face closed and the thick leading edge skewed to mid-off , went to ground quickly 2.1 Steyn to Dilshan , no run , length ball outside off , Dilshan gets forward and drives , but picks out mid-off 1.6 Kyle Abbott to Sangakkara , no run , ram-rod straight bat from Sangakkara as he gets behind the line of that short of length delivery on off , good over from Abbott though. A wicket maiden 1.5 Kyle Abbott to Sangakkara , no run , short of length on off , Sangakkara gets right behind the line and defends it back to Kyle Abbott Kumar Sangakkara , left handed bat , comes to the crease 1.4 Kyle Abbott to K Perera , out Caught by de Kock ! ! Superb take by de Kock , albeit off the second attempt. It was a terrific delivery from Kyle Abbott , he forced Perera to defend and the thick outside edge was found , it seemed to be going to Amla at first slip , but de Kock dived across and went with one glove. He was airborne as he stretched out and the ball slipped out the first time , but the keeper showed great reflexes to hang on before the ball hit the turf. He throws the ball away in delight and the South Africans are cock-a-hoop. The ploy to send Perera has flopped badly. Will Sri Lanka live to regret that mistake ? K Perera c de Kock b Kyle Abbott 3 ( 10 ) Kyle Abbott to K Perera , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 1.3 Kyle Abbott to K Perera , no run , surely Perera is afflicted by nerves. This is poor batting as well. Went after a wide delivery , wanted to smash the leather of the ball and missed out. Practices the shot after getting beaten 1.2 Kyle Abbott to K Perera , no run , another iffy stroke. The width was there , short and wide outside off , Perera cuts and misses. Was nowhere near connecting 1.1 Kyle Abbott to K Perera , no run , where is Perera running to ? He defended this in front of mid-off and wanted a run. Dilshan did n't even look at him , stood his ground and Perera had to rush back as short cover came across. Nerves from the youngster Kyle Abbott , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Steyn to K Perera , 1 run , streaky from Perera but he will take it , since there is no-one at gully. Pitched up outside off , Perera edged the drive and if this was a Test match , he would 've been walking back for the ball went in the vacant gully region 0.5 Steyn to K Perera , no run , that did n't carry to de Kock. Signs of variable bounce ? Already ? Perera got forward to drive and the ball beat his bat , before going on the bounce to the keeper 0.4 Steyn to K Perera , 2 runs , looks like Perera has been given the license to go after the bowling , again he slashes and gets a thick outside edge over the 2nd slip , to the fielder 's left , Tahir runs around from third man and dives to keep it to two 0.3 Steyn to K Perera , no run , Steyn has a wry smile on his face after beating Perera , it was a wild slash outside off from Perera as he failed to connect to a length ball outside off 0.2 Steyn to K Perera , no run , nice shot , but timed straight to the fielder at cover , Perera got a good stride forward and crunched the drive , but hit it to the fielder , instead of the gap 0.1 Steyn to K Perera , no run , wide of off , on a fuller length too , but that 's a sighter for Perera who leaves. Good carry to the keeper K Perera and Dilshan are at the crease. K Perera is on strike. Steyn will open the attack Two slips in place and it is the left-handed Kusal Perera to face off. All set to go. The countdown is done as well. Steyn to steam in The two of the most melodious and soulful anthems in the tournament are done. Lots of passion from both teams during the anthems. South Africa are in a huddle at the moment and they break out of it. The Lankan openers stride out to the middle. We are all set to go for what should be a magnificent quarter-final. Nice and sunny today in Sydney. Dilshan and for the first time in this World Cup , Kusal Perera will be opening. Dale Steyn has the new ball . Teams : Sri Lanka ( Playing XI ) : Kushal Janith Perera , Tillakaratne Dilshan , Kumar Sangakkara ( w ) , Mahela Jayawardene , Lahiru Thirimanne , Angelo Mathews ( c ) , Thisara Perera , Nuwan Kulasekara , T Kaushal , Lasith Malinga , Dushmantha Chameera South Africa ( Playing XI ) : Hashim Amla , Quinton de Kock ( w ) , Faf du Plessis , Rilee Rossouw , AB de Villiers ( c ) , David Miller , Jean-Paul Duminy , Dale Steyn , Kyle Abbott , Morne Morkel , Imran Tahir Sri Lanka have won the toss and have opted to bat De Villiers : " Records are not going to help us much. We also got to start nice and fresh. It 's a great opportunity for the guys to shine here today. We are representing a lot of people back home and they are waking up nice and early this morning to watch us. So we 've got to play a good game of cricket and make them proud. Every time I walk out in these colours , my heart beats pretty fast. I get very excited representing my country and I am very excited to perform well today. Probably yes ( when asked if he would have batted first ) . We are prepared to face whatever comes our way. Things in quarterfinals and big matches in World Cups do n't always go your way. We know if we play to our potential , no one is going to stop us in this tournament. So that 's what we are going to focus on today , to hit our straps from the word go and find a few weaknesses in the opposition. We rate ourselves to chase whatever total Sri Lanka gets , we rate ourselves to chase against their bowling line-up. Faf ( du Plessis ) is fit and he 's back in place of Farhaan Behardien , Vernon ( Philander ) misses out for ( Kyle ) Abbott. Well , I am the back up ( very happy , smiles - when asked if there were any back up bowlers ) . The calmness is great. Everything is in place. It 's just a matter of winning this game today. That 's what it 's comes down to. We have got our eyes set on our goals. Got to take one step at a time , start well today and I believe we 'll come out on top. " Mathews : " We 've got to start afresh. It 's a new game , a new opposition and we have to play good cricket to win against them. This is a beautiful stadium. Hope people will turn up to support us. We will have a bat first. The wicket is nice and hard , it 's pretty hot. Well , it 's obviously big quarterfinal so we look to bat first , put runs on the board and obviously the pressure will take it to them. Rangana ( Herath ) is not fit so we have drafted in Tharindu Kaushal. He 's a mystery spinner , so he 's going to make his debut. He 's kind of a duplicate Muralitharan ( smiles ) . So I am really excited to see him bowl today. Everyone is fit. " Live visuals show that Tharindu Kaushal is being congratulated by his team-mates in the team huddle. He is all smiles and looks like he will make his ODI debut. What a day for the youngster. He has come in to the tournament as a replacement for Herath who has been ruled out of the World Cup. Sri Lanka wanted Herath to be fit , but unfortunately his finger has n't healed in time. We will confirm Kaushal 's inclusion in just a bit as the toss and the teams are n't far away . Shane Warne reckons that 's the best pitch he has seen in this tournament. It is going to fly through and it is going to swing for the quickies. As the games goes on , Warne thinks it will spin . Pitch report by Shaun Pollock and Mike Hussey : It 's a new pitch they are using today. Rock-hard , few little cracks but that wo n't come into the picture. Beautiful batting strip. Nice even covering of grass. Expect a little bit of pace and bounce for the seamers. Not much spin as well. Win the toss and bat first on this . " There 's enough laughing , there 's enough stress , there 's enough nerves , there 's good cricket , there 's enough bad cricket. We 've got a mixture of everything on the team. We 've just got to find a way to win tomorrow " - AB de Villiers on his side 's only goal for the quarter-final . Quotes : Angelo Mathews , talking up his side 's support from the local Sri Lankans in Australia : " If you play at MCG or SCG it 's like playing at home. " Weather conditions : Rain is predicted but that should n't affect anything and we should get in a full game. A high of 31C is expected . Angelo Mathews though is fit. Mathews had gone off the field against Scotland in Hobart due to an Achilles niggle , but is now fully fit. Sri Lanka will play only one spinner with Dilshan 's offspin available. It will be a battle between Suranga Lakmal and Dushmantha Chameera for the final bowling spot . Sri Lanka : Rangana Herath has been ruled out of the quarter-final which is a big blow to the Islanders. Chief national selector Sanath Jayasuriya said Herath was finding it painful to bowl as the injury had not healed. " He had the stitches removed two days ago. But it might take more time for it to be fully healed. His chances of recovery in time for the crucial quarter-final are still less than 50 percent , " he said . Moving on , pre-match team news , South Africa first : du Plessis has recovered from a lower back injury that forced him to miss the game against UAE. So that leaves only one batting spot for either Farhaan Behardien or Rilee Rossouw. The bowling attack picks itself . The governing body trialled it during a five-ODI series between hosts Australia and South Africa late last year and received positive feedback on it. So expect plenty of spice and added viewer interest when a referral process is in motion . Here is something interesting from the ICC. The communication between on-field umpires and the third umpire in case of a TV referral will be available on air during the quarter-finals , semi-finals and final of the 2015 World Cup in Australia and New Zealand , an ICC press release said . " And of course you would expect Sri Lanka 's bowlers to have studied videos of his recent batting and have plans of how to contain him and to dismiss him. But putting him on a pedestal beyond that level of basic planning would do them no good at all. " " I know first-hand how tough he is to bowl at and in recent years , when we were together in the Indian Premier League , I marvelled at the range of shots he possessed. He is quick on his feet , inventive and his no fear approach puts bowlers under pressure from the word go. " " Yes , he is the Proteas ' key man , as he has shown both through this tournament and over a number of years , and he will have great recent memories of the SCG given his demolition of West Indies attack there last month with his unbeaten 162 from just 66 balls. " " As for de Villiers , I just hope the Sri Lanka squad does not put itself under undue pressure by focusing too much on the importance of his wicket. " " So , providing the pitch is a decent one then if the coin comes down in Mathews ' favour on Wednesday I think it would be advantage Sri Lanka , even before a ball has been bowled. " " The toss , I believe , will play a vital part in the outcome of the match. The side batting first in one-day internationals at the Sydney Cricket Ground wins 58 per cent of the time according to the statistics but , in the pressure of a knockout match as this one is , I reckon the advantage of runs on the board counts for even more than that figure suggests. " Former Sri Lankan great Muttiah Muralitharan , writing for the ICC has this to say : " I have two messages for the Sri Lanka squad and captain Angelo Mathews ahead of the World Cup quarter-final against South Africa in Sydney : win the toss and do not get too hung up thinking about AB de Villiers. " Now some pre-match talk from the Sri Lankan camp. Angelo Mathews wants his side to win the World Cup for Kumar Sangakkara and Mahela Jayawardena. " We 've talked about it quite a lot , and we look to try to make this tournament a memorable one for them. They 've been performing really well. Kumar has been brilliant in the past four games for us , and hopefully he can get one more ( hundred ) tomorrow. Obviously , Kumar is one of the hardest workers I 've ever seen. He 's the first one to get into the nets and the last to get out of the nets. Mahela got a brilliant hundred against Afghanistan but since then he has n't had the opportunity to have a good knock. He is a big match player and the top four have to score runs for us to be in contention. Hopefully , we can make it an historical one winning tomorrow and go into the semi-finals again. Hopefully , we can go to the final and win there and make it historical for the legends. But before looking at the final , we need to try to take one game at a time. " " He has been in these situations a lot of time with real life experiences , not just facing a cricket ball. And it is great to have his energy around. He has been with us before and has a lot energy , connects with players. It 's just great fun to have him with us , " Domingo said before heading to the team 's last net session before Wednesday 's quarter-final against Sri Lanka . Mike Horn 's joined us. He has done a lot scarier things in the world than facing Dale Steyn or Morne Morkel , " coach Russell Domingo said. " He has done some extreme things and he will put it all in perspective for us over the next couple of days about what pressure is like and fear is like and being out of comfort zone . South Africa have brought in renowned explorer Mike Horn to enable them to overcome the fear of the uncertainty of the playoff stage. Horn , 48 , was associated with the Indian team that won the ICC Cricket World Cup 2011 in the subcontinent and the German football squad which won the FIFA World Cup 2014 in Brazil. Horn has helped the Proteas before as well , most notably ahead of their tour of England in 2012 . " By all means , we want to try and make sure that it does n't happen to us. At the end of the day , we just want to play good cricket. If the opportunity arises and somebody is in that stage of the game under pressure , we try and focus on things we have done really well and not get too caught up in what 's happened in the past. " South African coach , Russell Domingo 's take on choking and its prevention : " It has been part of South African cricket for a period of time. Every time we get to these events , it is going to be questioned. We have spoken about it , no doubt about it. We have faced the fact that in the past we have let opportunities slip and hopefully we would have learnt from the lessons the previous sides have made in events like this. " " It 's exactly what we 've been working for the last two to three years. We 're very prepared for this. Yeah , just ready to go. Obviously there 's history to be made , and if we do come through this , it 'll be great. But we know it 's important to come out there and just to focus on the basics and do a few things right in order to win. All our focus will be on that , " " de Villiers said . " The guys are very aware of what 's happening and where we 're at in this tournament. Part of the reason why we took today off and just played a few games in the park and just had a good time and a laugh and just felt each other out a little bit. We know exactly what 's coming tomorrow. " With the road to the quarter-finals done. Now its time for all the pre-match talk that is surrounding this game. We begin with South Africa and their captain AB de Villiers is ready to change history. 'South Africa will not choke , will find a way to win ' he declares confidently. " All I can say is we 're not going to choke. We 're just going to play a good game of cricket on Wednesday and come out on top. Simple , " he said on the eve of the game . Malinga looks short of his very best and the other bowlers have n't quite scaled up. The spin attack without Herath does n't possess a threat at all. The injuries too have n't helped at all as Dammika Prasad was ruled out before the tournament started. Sri Lanka badly need Herath to be fit for the quarter-final to give them genuine wicket-taking options . Road to the quarter-final : Sri Lanka won convincingly against Bangladesh , England and Scotland to finish third in the group. Sangakkara is in the form of his life as he became the first man to score four ODI hundreds in a row. Can he make it five on the trot ? Looking at the form he is in , one would n't bet against him. Dilshan , Thirimanne and Jayawardena too have made hundreds , while Mathews has chipped in with cameos. It is the bowling that lacks bite as Australia and New Zealand ruthlessly exploited. Even England managed a 300 plus score against the Sri Lankans . While South Africa have n't been the dominant team that everyone expected them to be before the tournament 's start , Sri Lanka have quietly gone about their business and seemed to revelling in the attention some of the other sides have been getting. Their campaign got off to a bad start with a loss to New Zealand while it was Mahela Jayawardena 's class that ensured points against gritty Afghanistan. They were in a tight corner until Mahela bailed them out , to save themselves an embarrassing defeat. Against Australia they were blown away by Maxwell , but they put up a fantastic fight and were well on course until Chandimal 's injury forced him to retire hurt . Quinton de Kock has been a big letdown at the top while Duminy and Miller look suspect when the pressure is on. Amla made a stroke-filled hundred against Ireland and a 65 against West Indies but has n't had a score apart from that game. That has left de Villiers to carry the burden on his shoulders. Also the number 7 spot looks unsettled with South Africa unsure about whom to play. Dale Steyn has n't been firing on all cylinders with the ball and that has left the bowling lacking that killer instinct . Road to the quarter-final : South Africa have had a mixed tournament so far. They annihilated West Indies and Ireland , posting over 400 , becoming the first side in ODIs to post successive 400 plus totals. But against India and Pakistan , they were well beaten while chasing a target. India outplayed them in all departments at MCG while Pakistan were inspired with the ball at Eden Park. Zimbabwe gave South Africa a good fight , but could n't sustain the momentum in the chase , losing in the end . Will history repeat itself ? Will Kumar Sangakkara and his best mate , Mahela Jayawardena be left to end their careers without a World Cup winners medal ? All the answers will be known when the game begins. For now let us look back at how both teams got to the quarter-final stage. Starting with South Africa . Gilchrist , equipped with a squash ball inside his gloves and MS Dhoni , promoting himself ahead of Yuvraj Singh played masterful knocks under pressure to deny the Islanders their glory. The likes of Sanath Jayasuriya and Muttiah Muralitharan were left to finish their careers with just one World Cup medal adorning their necks , instead of two . If Ch * * * has been used to criticise South Africa either fairly or unfairly , it is time we shifted our attention towards Sri Lanka. Their opponents in today 's quarter-final. Winners in 1996. Runners-up in 2007 and 2011. Sri Lanka at one point had a streak of 4 ICC finals - without winning anything - if you take in , the 2009 and 2012 T20 WC tournaments as well. But that barren run was broken in 2014 when they beat India to win the T20 WC. In 2007 and 2011 they were done in by two wicket-keepers who played magnificent roles in the final . de Villiers was run out and the South African chase nose-dived. From 108/2 to 172 all out. 64 runs for 8 wickets. South Africa had been sent home in spectacular fashion. All the old wounds were reopened and the media bayed for blood using the 'C ' word to describe their performance. Once again and for the umpteenth time , South Africa had flattered to deceive in a World Cup . After winning five out of their six league games in the 2011 World Cup , including a thrilling game against eventual winners India , South Africa were expected to thrash New Zealand in the quarter-final at Dhaka. But what happened eventually was mind-boggling. Chasing New Zealand 's 222 , South Africa were coasting at 108/2 with Kallis and de Villiers batting superbly. Just then , the big tall Jacob Oram produced a moment of inspiration at the deep mid-wicket boundary that turned the game. He pulled off an athletic running catch and that wicket of Kallis sparked a collapse . In 2007 it was a crushing defeat. South Africa were bundled over for 149 in the semi-final against a rampant Aussie side. The chase was a cakewalk from then on. It was one of the most one-sided semi-finals in World Cup history . Former batsman turned TV commentator Andrew Hudson summed it up best when he had these words : " 42 million South Africans are going to bed tonight hoping it was a bad dream " . Murali was the bowler and Boucher heaved a six over wide long-on off the penultimate ball of the over and promptly punched the air , thinking he had done enough. He calmly turned the last ball to mid-wicket and did n't take the single. Expectedly the umpires took the players off after the end of the 45th over. Further rain meant no more play was possible. But to South Africa 's shock and horror , the score needed to win was 230 and 229 was just good enough for a tie. South Africa had been knocked out due to a mathematical error caused by one of their own and left them distraught and speechless . In 2003 , it was a D/L calculation error that cost South Africa a chance to move into the knockout stages. South Africa needed a win to go through in their last group match against Sri Lanka. They were chasing 269 and it was rain once again which had threatened to make it a nightmare for them. The South African dressing room sent a message to Mark Boucher who was at the crease then , that 229 was the score they needed to be on by the end of the 45th , assuming no further wickets fell . There are a couple of iconic images that will forever be transfixed in a cricket fan 's mind. The sight of Klusener walking back being escorted by a big security guard. Hansie Cronje standing shell-shocked , watching from a glass window in front of him. The Aussies celebrating all in one frame as Gilchrist broke the stumps. Donald , crest-fallen picking up his bat and gear. What images and what memories it brings back till this day. Australia were through to the final and South Africa out. The best team in the tournament by a mile had once again flopped . Next ball , the unthinkable happened from a South African perspective. Klusener mistimed one to mid-off and just ran. He did n't call or look at Donald. He hit it and ran. Mark Waugh was at mid-off. One of Australia 's best fielders ever. His ice-coolness , just like his twin Steve , helped Australia. Mark Waugh moved swiftly to his left and backhanded a flick to Fleming. Fleming 's cricketing nous and sense came to the fore as he calmly rolled the ball to Gilchrist who ran Donald out. Donald had lost his bat and had begun to run as he saw Klusener run past him. But he was caught yards short as Gilchrist whipped the bails off and celebrated . Damien Fleming was the man under pressure and off the third ball , Darren Lehmann had a chance to run Allan Donald out at the non-striker 's end as the pacer was out of his crease but missed the target. Donald looked skywards and heaved a sigh of relief with a nervous smile dotting his lips. That should 've been a big warning. South Africa were n't home yet , they needed the one run , for a tie would see the Aussies go through as they had beaten them in the Super Six stage . Steve Waugh had no other option but to bring the field in and he just did that. Did that play on Klusener 's mind ? Or did he want to finish it off in one blaze of glory ? Was he nervous ? Was he tense ? What was he thinking ? His body language and facial expressions did n't suggest anything at all. He was like Pete Sampras. Stoic ! If you thought , this was drama then this is nothing. Wait till we get to the end. Australia held all the aces going into the final over of the game bowled by Damien Fleming. South Africa needed 9 with the last pair of Lance Klusener and Allan Donald at the crease. But Klusener showed his striking prowess by drilling the first two balls through extra cover - the two of the hardest hits you will ever see - as he tied the match. Just a single was needed now and it was advantage South Africa . But such was his unbreakable resolve and unshakeable self-belief , that Warnie effectively brought Australia back into the contest with three wickets in quick time. Gibbs was bamboozled by a trademark big leggie , Kirsten was bowled by another ripping leg-break while Cronje was wrongly ruled out , with the ball coming off the boot. The game though had swung towards Australia and Warne had created an opening from nothing . It had the likes of Kirsten , Gibbs , Cullinan , Cronje , Kallis , Rhodes and Co. South Africa got off to a solid start too , with them getting to 48/0. Enter Shane Warne as Steve Waugh threw the ball to his ace leggie. Warne was out-of-sorts in the tournament so far and even had contemplated thoughts about premature retirement earlier in the year. He was smashed by New Zealand and Pakistan in the league stages and his confidence was n't great . The 1999 World Cup semi-final between South Africa and Australia will go down as one of the greatest games in ODI history. Such was the twists and turns that kept everyone hooked to their seats. It was see-sawing till the last ball. Drama at its highest. Worthy of an Oscar-winning movie. Australia had just made 213 as Shaun Pollock and Allan Donald shared 9 wickets making full use of bowling first conditions at Birmingham. The target seemed to be too little for such a strong batting line-up that South Africa possessed at that time . If rain had robbed South Africa of a possible final spot in 1992 , their campaign was brought to an abrupt end by Brian Lara 's class in 1996. Having won all their five matches in the league stage , South Africa were firm favorites in 1996 to go all the way. But at Karachi , in a knockout game it was Brian Lara who weaved magic with the bat. His 94-ball 111 studded with 16 boundaries helped West Indies post a good total of 264 on the board. And then their bowlers came to the party. The spinners , Roger Harper and Jimmy Adams took 7 wickets amongst themselves as South Africa fell 19 runs short . " South Africa 's chances of reaching the final floundered on a rule which no-one had bothered to think through , " wrote John Woodcock in The Cricketer. " For so important an event to be reduced at times to a lottery must have been a source of great embarrassment to the organisers , though to the best of my knowledge they came nowhere near to admitting it. It is difficult to avoid the impression that the Australian Cricket Board are obliged to defer to television , by which I mean to Mr Packer 's Channel Nine and all their delirious ways. " The term Ch * * * - did n't begin to haunt South Africa until 1999 , but one has to feel a bit sorry for what happened to them in 1992. Playing against England at the SCG the match was nicely poised with the Proteas needing 22 off 13 balls when the skies opened up. Just the 12 minutes of rain was enough to ruin a nation 's dream as the dreaded rain rule made its appearance. The giant screen at the SCG showed South Africa needed 22 off 1 ball when the rain stopped much to the shock and frustration of the African nation. But such was the rain rule back then. When play restarted just to complete the formality , Brian McMillan defended Chris Lewis ' last ball - bowled from a very short run - for a single and walked off in a huff. South Africa were angry , while England were a bit embarrassed by all the shenanigans that had unfolded in front of their eyes . Before we go any further , let us go back a little bit. Back till 1992 because that 's when South Africa 's tryst with World Cups began. We will look at each and every knockout/their final game in those tournaments as we cast our minds back to what happened that caused their eventual exit. This will be joyful/painful depending on whether you are a South African supporter or not. What about us ? I hate stating the obvious , but sometimes you have to do that. We are neutral and it is just our job to bring you the best coverage possible. So on that note , let 's begin. This is going to be a treat. So enjoy ! On that slightly awkward note - awkward just because we did n't want to bring that word up , but had to - we welcome you to our coverage of the first quarter-final between Sri Lanka and South Africa being played at the Sydney Cricket Ground. Hope you are settled in warmly - wherever you may be - armed with whatever that pleases you - from hot brews to a chilled one , to food of all varieties - as you need lots of time and attention to read through our varied and delightful description of this big game. This is a huge game , the quarter-final of a World Cup and we will ensure nothing escapes our grasp . Ch * * * - 'fail to perform at a crucial point of a game or contest as a result of nervousness.' 12 : 30 Local Time , 01 : 30 GMT , 07 : 00 IST : Five knockout matches in World Cups. Since 1992. That 's 23 years and counting. Five defeats. Zero wins. For a team that possessed the likes of Hansie Cronje , Allan Donald , Jacques Kallis , Shaun Pollock , Lance Klusener , Jonty Rhodes , Daryll Cullinan , Herschelle Gibbs , Graeme Smith , and many more. The best all-round side entering into any big tournament. Invariably one of the favorites going into the mega event. But still they ca n't seem to get over the line. What could be the reason ? Nerves , pressure , inability to deliver the crunching blow. Unable to live up to the favorites tag ? No ! There is one word that starts with 'C ' and unfortunately - even though they hate that word associated to their name - South Africa have been called just that. We wo n't mention that word - that would be doing a disservice , but here is what the English dictionary says about what it means in a sporting context . Preview by G Rajaraman A colourful and noisy house will be in attendance as South Africa and Sri Lanka clash at the iconic Sydney Cricket Ground on Wednesday in what can be the best of the quarterfinals games in the ICC Cricket World Cup. Hopefully , curator Tom Parker and his team will roll out a track on which the outcome of the high-voltage game will not depend only on the toss . The teams have similarities they lost two games each in the league phase ; they have had pretty much an even record against one another in the past couple of years ; and , they are both hungrily nervous ahead the big game. They have differences , too Sri Lanka have a history of doing well at the World Cup competitions while South Africa are seeking to break new ground . The teams are blessed with experienced batsmen who can deliver on the big stage but with a more balanced bowling attack , South Africa can fancy themselves of achieving that dream first win in a World Cup play-off game and then head to Auckland for the semifinal. Sri Lanka are yet to find a bowling combination that can stop the talented and determined teams . If , despite the talk , South Africa take the ghosts of past along with them to the park , they will court trouble. The other significant thing that can stop them from realising their passionate dream of winning a knockout game in the world 's premier cricket tournament is Sri Lanka 's batting , especially if Angelo Matthews ' team takes first strike . Kumar Sangakkara 's incredible purple patch has fetched him a tournament high of 496 runs , including four centuries , from six league games while opener Tillakaratne Dilshan is just five runs shy of the 400-run mark. Lahiru Thirimanne has contributed to the Sri Lankan top-order looking the most productive in the tournament . Sri Lanka have the experience of winning big games but they can not forget that their bowling unit has not been their strongest suit. Paceman Lasith Malinga was gingerly on his comeback from ankle surgery and the team is still sweating over left-arm spinner Rangana Herath 's return from a split finger that needed stitches and kept him out of the last two games . With a set of stroke-players who can win games on their own , South Africa will need Hashim Amla to play an anchoring effort. Of the batsmen left in the tournament , AB de Villiers is the only one besides Sangakkara to have logged more than 400 runs so far. South Africa 's batsmen were not up to scratch when chasing targets set by India and Pakistan . Talking of losses , Sri Lanka 's defeats by co-hosts New Zealand and Australia showed their vulnerabilities , too. As they prepare for battle on Wednesday at SCG whose tracks in the three World Cup games have been on the slower side , Sri Lanka and South Africa will both be looking to avert making mistakes under pressure . Fans who will throng the iconic Sydney Cricket Ground will be hoping for a humdinger , with the team that holds their nerves getting their nose ahead. It would be a travesty if winning the toss has a direct bearing on the outcome of the game. Certainly , that was the case when South Africa beat the West Indies and Sri Lanka chased a tall score by Australia at the venue . England bucked the trend by winning after choosing to field first but against Afghanistan. Only a Herculean bowling effort in the afternoon can ensure the replication of that on Wednesday. South Africa are better equipped to achieve that than Sri Lanka. They chose not to train on Tuesday , wanting to keep their minds fresh . But the moot question remains : Does South Africa 's will to win have the strength to overpower their raging desire not to lose in the playoff again ? Teams : South Africa ( From ) : Hashim Amla , Quinton de Kock ( w ) , Faf du Plessis , AB de Villiers ( c ) , Rilee Rossouw , David Miller , Jean-Paul Duminy , Vernon Philander , Dale Steyn , Imran Tahir , Morne Morkel , Farhaan Behardien , Wayne Parnell , Aaron Phangiso , Kyle Abbott Sri Lanka ( From ) : Tillakaratne Dilshan , Lahiru Thirimanne , Kumar Sangakkara ( w ) , Mahela Jayawardene , Angelo Mathews ( c ) , Kushal Janith Perera , Thisara Perera , Seekkuge Prasanna , Nuwan Kulasekara , Lasith Malinga , Sachithra Senanayake , Dushmantha Chameera , Rangana Herath , Suranga Lakmal , Upul Tharanga Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
