Graphs We will begin our coverage early , so do n't forget to join us then. Until next time , on behalf of Raju , Krishna , Bharath and my co-commentators , Srivathsa , Ramakrishnan and Pradeep , this is Sidhant Maheshwari , signing off. Take care folks ! So , that 's all we have from this game. The semi-finals line-up is out and both games are expected to produce some crazy cricketing moments. Also not to forget , but for the first time , one team out of South Africa and New Zealand will qualify for the World Cup final. So , do n't miss out on the action . Semi-Final 1 , March 24 : New Zealand vs South Africa , Eden Park , Auckland Semi-Final 2 , March 26 : India vs Australia , Sydney , SCG We had a small sample of tweets during the innings break. Here 's more on what was a day of records at the 'Cake Tin ' : @ ronchi04 : One of the greatest knocks I 've ever seen , amazing work from @ Martyguptill today. Great to get the win , now onto the semi final # goblackcaps . @ MichaelVaughan : The @ BLACKCAPS are a great team to watch ... So aggressive and powerful .. Lead by a great Captain . @ Mykuhl : We will definitely have a first time World Cup finalist. Neither NZ nor SA have been there before . @ sanjaymanjrekar : Absolutely clean hitting from Martin Guptill. Some shots quite breathtaking in front of a great crowd in Wellington . @ fwildecricket : # Aus , # Ind , # NZ and # SA have been the best four teams at this World Cup. They are deserving Semi-Finalists . @ cricketaakash : 643 runs in 80 overs. I 'm assuming people went home happy ! @ scottbstyris : Guptill 's form could be difference between SA and NZ in the semifinals . Martin Guptill enthralled the crowd by playing a whirlwind innings of 237 not out. With his thrill-a-minute knock , he also broke a slew of records. Here 's a collection of all records and some more interesting trivia : Guptill registered the second highest individual score in ODIs. Rohit Sharma is perched at the top of the charts with his spellbinding innings of 264 against Sri Lanka . Guptill is only the second batsman in the history of World Cups to crack a double ton . Gupill went on to break Chris Gayle 's record ( 215 against Zimbabwe in Canberra in this World Cup ) for the highest individual score in World Cups . Guptill is now the first cricketer from New Zealand to notch up a double ton in ODIs Guptill turned out to be the first cricketer from New Zealand to compose back-to-back 100 plus scores in World Cups . This is the second time , Guptill has made consecutive hundred plus scores in ODIs . Guptill also became the second player from New Zealand to notch up a 100 plus score in a knockout game in the history of the World Cup . New Zealand 's score of 393 for 6 is the highest total in a knockout game in World Cups . West Indies became the first team to concede two double hundreds in ODIs . With 26 sixes to his name , Gayle now has smashed the most sixes in a World Cup . With as many as 31 sixes being hammered , this game also saw the most sixes smashed in a World Cup match . In terms of runs , New Zealand 's win ( 143 runs ) is the biggest victory in a knockout game in World Cup history . Curiously , when Rohit cracked a wondrous innings of 264 , he was dropped on four and today too Guptill was dropped on four ! McCullum : 'I think the innings we have witnessed today is probably the best innings I have seen in my life in this form of the game. It was a sublime innings and everyone that was here today will remember it for the rest of their lives. It was just clean striking and it was just a pure class innings. Gups ( Martin Guptill ) been treating for a while , he obviously scored a brilliant hundred in the last game and that innings today is something I will never forget , I am sure everyone everyone here will be the same. The way our team is structured , it allows us a bit of license at the start. Some days it comes off and some days it does n't , but it 's a brand of cricket we are comfortable playing. For us to be competitive against world 's best teams on a regular basis , we got to make sure that we play attacking style of cricket. I think we have seen how much the crowds love the way we 've been playing at the moment and we will continue to play like that ( on being attacking from the word go at the start of the innings ) . We know how dangerous the West Indies players are as well and how clean the strikers they are all the way down the order. The pitch continued to get better and it was a great cricket wicket , but we wanted to make a statement on the back of Gups fantastic innings. We wanted to make a real statement and put in a professional performance across the board. So , that 's what we showed with the ball and in the field as well to back up a brilliant innings and a really good batting performance. Overall , a really good performance from us today. It 's great to be able to progress to the semi-finals and we will enjoy it tonight and celebrate Gups ' success , celebrate the boys ' success and then turn our attention to Auckland . They are a great crowd , the way they have turned up not just in this World Cup , but also through the Test summer and the last couple of years , there has been a tremendous support from the capital. All the fans around the country are really getting in behind this team. The boys thrive on it , it is the greatest time of our lives and it 's great that everyone can join in with us. We will deal with that one in the next couple of days. We just want this to sink in first and certainly not taking it for granted. We will do our homework and we will turn up and put out best foot forward. We will see how we go in the next game , but we are travelling okay at the moment . Well , I gave him no chance to be honest ( on Vettori 's sensational catch ) . You saw the reaction from the boys , the way that they ran from all corners of the ground to celebrate that catch , a guy like him is so instrumental to the performance of this team. He is a legend of New Zealand cricket and still getting that opportunity for us to play with him. He 's such a special man and a special cricketer. For him to pull off something like that today , I think you saw the reaction how much his actions and his involvement in the team means to all of us . I think it is pretty hard to compare eras , there have been some outstanding eras in New Zealand cricket. And certainly the teams I have played in , this is the best team I have been a part of for our country. But certainly not disrespectful to the legends that have been there before for New Zealand cricket. Pretty happy with our lot at the moment , would n't change them for anyone. They have been outstanding , I am sure a few of them are booking their tickets to Auckland as well. I expect a huge crowd in the next game , but thank you everyone for turning up. It 's been a great ride so far. Hopefully , we got another couple of games , but I am pretty sure everyone is enjoying it and we certainly are.' Holder : 'It was tough to defend. I felt we were into the game upto the 35th over. Guptill played a very good innings and obviously we put him down very early and that cost us. It was difficult , a set batsman on that pitch was very dangerous. I thought the ball stood up quite well in the pitch and you had time to place the ball where you wanted. We still did n't hit our yorkers well and that was our downfall today. It 's been a challenge coming from South Africa where we lost 4-1. I always had high hopes coming into the World Cup. We had an up and down roller-coaster ride so far , but it 's been enjoyable. I have learned a lot and it 's something I will never shy away from. It 's just about learning as quickly as possible. The bad days we have , we just need to sit down and assess and find a way where we went wrong. Just try and improve on the next game. The more we dwell on it , the longer it takes to go. We just need to try and apply ourselves a bit more. That 's just it really , for us. Of course , I would like to keep the job ( captaincy ) . That 's something I always wanted to do as a youngster , coming out to lead West Indies. I am here and I do n't think I have done too badly. It has been an up and down ride for me , but I have a lot of confidence going forward in the guys. Hopefully , we can get it right going forward. I would really like to thank the supporters who came all the way from New Zealand to help us and their support is quite appreciated.' Martin Guptill : 'Could n't tell you really ( on what was the thing that put him into overdrive ) . We had a couple of good partnerships early with Kane ( Williamson ) and Ross ( Taylor ) , that really set the game up for us to explode at the end. We were trying to take each ball as it came and just keep rotating the strike. That 's the best way to create partnerships. I thought that we did that pretty well , it worked out for us at the end. I am not really sure , sort of after I got a hundred or so ( on when he thought about going after the bowlers ) . I thought I should probably start hitting a few boundaries at some point. So , it was nice at the end there , Grant ( Elliott ) played a great hand , same with Luke Ronchi as well. That was the quickest outfield I have actually played on here. We got value for shots today and happy to have got a few through the gaps. Incredible crowd here , bit of a step up from the England game. Thanks everyone for coming out and supporting us today. We are going to try. Let this win sink in tonight and then we will focus on the semi-final starting tomorrow. Just try and take it as it comes , but has n't really sunk in yet. We still have got a bit of work to do in this tournament. I ca n't dwell on it too much ( on how cool he was despite scoring a magnificent 237 ) .' Martin Guptill is the Man of the Match for his knock of 237 * The New Zealand camp certainly will be happy with Guptill 's rousing innings as it means there is less pressure on Brendon McCullum to fire at top of the order. They now will take on South Africa in the semi-final in Auckland . Guptill muscled Darren Sammy for a 101-metre six. In the final over of the innings bowled by Russell , he landed a mighty blow that hit the roof and it turned out to be a 110-metre six. In the 38th over , he also smashed Jerome Taylor to shreds by scoring 16 runs. Ross Taylor played his part as well with a handy knock of 42. The Windies certainly would rue the fact that Guptill was dropped in the first over by Samuels. On expected lines , Guptill broke a slew of records. He became only the second batsman to compose a double ton in World Cups. He now holds the record for the highest individual score in World Cups. His innings turned out to be the second highest individual score in ODIs. Guptill became the first player from New Zealand to amass back-to-back 100 plus scores in World Cups. The record for the highest individual score by a New Zealand cricketer is also now in Guptill 's name . Earlier , Guptill scaled fabulous peaks , as his knock of 237 not out turned out to be a masterpiece. With his majestic brilliance , Guptill stunned the opposition into silence and made the Windies attack look utterly clueless. He presented a full face of the bat to play crisply timed shots down the ground against the new ball. Once he reached his century though , Guptill went berserk. The bat came down in audacious arcs as he clouted a listless attack to all corners of the ground . Even when it was raining fours and sixes from Gayle 's bat , it felt like New Zealand had already batted them out of the game , but once he was dismissed , the Windies just hurtled towards a heavy defeat. Jonathan Carter , Marlon Samuels , Darren Sammy , Jason Holder and Andre Russell played breezy knocks , but that just was n't enough on a day when Martin Guptill 's wondrously inspiring innings had put New Zealand in pole position. Among the bowlers , Trent Boult again bowled aggressively by generating swing , and pitched it up and was rewarded with four wickets. Boult has also added another string to his bow as he has a fine bouncer up his sleeve now. The fielding too was sharp. It can be exemplified by how Daniel Vettori showed wonderful judgement at third-man to take a superlative catch as Samuels took a long walk back to the pavilion . Despite Chris Gayle 's blitz at the top of the order , West Indies fell well short of the target. In fact , Gayle waltzed his way to 33-ball 61. It was high-octane stuff from Gayle as he repeatedly targeted the mid-wicket region to hammer hefty blows before Adam Milne knocked over his stumps with a quick delivery. He clobbered as many as eight sixes during his innings . The Kiwis win by a margin of 143 runs , the biggest margin of victory in a World Cup knockout game. New Zealand have been the dominant team by a big margin today. They will now face South Africa in the first semi-final at Auckland. The players walk off the field to a standing ovation from the crowd. The West Indians also walk out to shake hands and congratulate their counterparts . 30.3 Vettori to J Holder , out Caught by Corey Anderson ! ! Holder backs away and also comes down the track , looks to go over long-off , he does n't get the required distance on that and offers a simple catch to Anderson at long-off. Anderson has his arms aloft as he charges in towards his team-mates. J Holder c Corey Anderson b Vettori 42 ( 26 ) [ 4s-5 6s-2 ] Vettori to J Holder , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! New Zealand have won it ! They are through to the semi-finals for the 7th time . 30.2 Vettori to J Holder , no run , touch fuller and on the stumps , Holder squeezes out the drive to extra cover 30.1 Vettori to J Holder , no run , flighted delivery on off and middle , Holder pushes it towards extra cover Daniel Vettori [ 6.0-0-58-1 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Southee to Benn , FOUR , fuller in length and around off , Benn stays back in the crease , clears his front leg and gets under it. He lofts it over the leaping McCullum at mid-on and the ball runs away to the fence , 6 boundaries have come off the last 2 overs 29.5 Southee to Benn , FOUR , how did that miss the stumps ? It was angled across off , Benn clears his front leg and has a wild swing at it , the ball takes the inside edge , runs past the off stump and crashes into the fine leg fence 29.4 Southee to Benn , no run , low full toss just outside off , Benn drags it off the inside half of the bat towards short mid-wicket 29.3 Southee to J Holder , 1 run , on middle and leg this time , Holder flicks it uppishly off his pads towards the deep mid-wicket region , the fielder was charging in towards the ball , but it bounces in front of him , this time Holder gets off strike 29.2 Southee to J Holder , no run , backs away once again and Southee follows him with a fuller one , Holder tries to squeeze it out and gets an inside edge that rolls towards short fine leg , he does n't take the single though 29.1 Southee to J Holder , FOUR , perfect placement from Holder , it was short and at the batsman , Holder stays leg-side and pulls it to the deep mid-wicket fence 28.6 Milne to J Holder , 1 run , angling in on leg , Holder nurdles it through backward square leg and he will keep the strike 28.5 Milne to J Holder , FOUR , length delivery outside off , Holder clears his front leg and lofts it inside-out and gets it wide of mid-off , the ball runs away to the fence , a hat-trick of boundaries for Holder now 28.4 Milne to J Holder , FOUR , touch fuller and on middle stump line , Holder lofts it over mid-on , he did n't time it that well , but the ball had enough to beat the slide from Vettori , who was chasing it from mid-on 28.3 Milne to J Holder , FOUR , another short one from Milne , Holder is quick to rock back and he pulls it magnificently to the deep mid-wicket fence , it went like a tracer bullet there 28.2 Milne to Benn , 1 run , what sort of shot was that ? It was banged in short and outside off , Benn goes for the pull , but was a little too early into the shot. The ball takes the toe-end of the bat and rolls away through the cover region 28.2 Milne to Benn , wide , down the leg side , Benn was looking to tickle it fine from inside the crease , he misses and the umpire calls it a wide 28.1 Milne to J Holder , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven towards deep cover for a single Adam Milne [ 3.0-0-26-1 ] is back into the attack Sulieman Benn , left handed bat , comes to the crease 27.6 Southee to Jerome Taylor , out Caught by Guptill ! ! West Indies lose their ninth wicket ! This was the yorker length delivery and on the leg-stump line , Taylor was looking to jam it out , ends up scooping it straight to Guptill at short mid-wicket. No one was sure , the third umpire was called for. Replays suggested that Taylor was OUT and off he goes. Jerome Taylor c Guptill b Southee 11 ( 12 ) [ 4s-2 ] Southee to Jerome Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Has Taylor been caught ? We will have to check it with the third umpire. Guptill was n't sure either. 'It 's a fair delivery , says Tucker. He wants a slow-mo replay from the front-angle , it 's pretty clear , that 's all I want to see , it 's OUT, ' says Tucker 27.5 Southee to Jerome Taylor , no run , Southee keeps it short and just outside off , Taylor arches back as he looked to help it over the slip cordon , misses it 27.4 Southee to Jerome Taylor , no run , Southee follows Taylor as he came down the track , another swing and a miss 27.3 Southee to Jerome Taylor , no run , short and well outside off , Taylor aims a big swoosh and misses 27.2 Southee to Jerome Taylor , no run , short of a length and well outside off , Taylor goes hard on the cut and mistimes it towards cover-point 27.1 Southee to Jerome Taylor , no run , Southee slips in the slower ball , Taylor watches it all along and defends it 26.6 Vettori to Jerome Taylor , 1 run , Taylor gets lucky , this was slower and wider from Vettori , Taylor comes down the track and was looking to go back over the bowler , ends up slicing it behind point , no one 's there and he gets a single 26.5 Vettori to Jerome Taylor , no run , slower and on the stumps , Taylor lunges forward and blocks 26.4 Vettori to J Holder , 1 run , this one 's given more air , eased down towards long-on for a run 26.3 Vettori to J Holder , no run , low full-toss from Vettori , driven back towards the bowler 26.2 Vettori to Jerome Taylor , 1 run , tossed up and on off , driven down towards long-off for a single 26.1 Vettori to J Holder , 1 run , arm-ball from Vettori , Holder makes room and punches it square on the off-side for a single 25.6 Southee to J Holder , 1 run , tad fuller and on off , Holder looks to drive and gets a thick inside edge past mid-on for a single 25.5 Southee to J Holder , SIX , effortless hitting from Holder , short and on the stumps , Holder swivels across and helps it on its way , went sailing deep into the deep square leg boundary 25.4 Southee to Jerome Taylor , 1 run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Taylor goes for the big shot and ends up dragging it behind square on the on-side for a single 25.3 Southee to Jerome Taylor , FOUR , more runs for Taylor , this was full and on the stumps , Taylor looks to drive , gets a thick inside edge , beats mid-wicket and races away to the fence in a hurry 25.2 Southee to Jerome Taylor , FOUR , nicely played by Taylor , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Taylor presents the full face of the bat and drives it past mid-on for a boundary Two slips in place Jerome Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 25.1 Southee to A Russell , out Bowled ! ! Southee has a wicket now ! This was full and on the stumps , Russell made room for the big heave over mid-wicket , connects with thin air , the off-stump is knocked back and it 's the 8th wicket down. It 's getting over rather too quickly. A Russell b Southee 20 ( 11 ) [ 4s-1 6s-2 ] Southee to A Russell , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Tim Southee [ 5.0-0-53-0 ] is back into the attack 24.6 Vettori to A Russell , 1 run , full and just outside off , eased down towards long-off for a single 24.5 Vettori to A Russell , no run , slower and just outside off , Russell lunges forward and blocks 24.4 Vettori to J Holder , 1 run , tossed up and on Holder 's pads , flicked away towards mid-wicket for a single 24.3 Vettori to A Russell , 1 run , pushed through by Vettori , Russell looks to defend and gets an inside edge behind square on the on-side 24.2 Vettori to J Holder , 1 run , flighted delivery and well outside off , drilled past extra cover for a single , the fielder in the deep gets across quickly , dives and stops the ball 24.1 Vettori to J Holder , SIX , lovely shot , Holder joins the party , comes down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and lofts it high and back over the bowler 's head , went sailing over the sight-screen for another six 23.6 Corey Anderson to A Russell , SIX , another lovely shot , Russell is taking some anger off , width on offer from Anderson , he reaches out and slices it over backward point , hits the ad boards on the full , two big sixes to end the over 23.5 Corey Anderson to A Russell , SIX , that made a cracking sound as it hit the bat , fraction short and just outside off , Russell rocks back and pulls it hard and flat , went sailing into the mid-wicket stands 23.4 Corey Anderson to J Holder , 1 run , length ball and on the stumps , worked past square leg for a single 23.3 Corey Anderson to J Holder , no run , back of a length and slanting away from the right-hander , dabbed straight to the fielder at point 23.2 Corey Anderson to J Holder , no run , the bumper from Anderson , Holder swivels across on the pull and misses 23.1 Corey Anderson to J Holder , FOUR , on a good length and angling away from outside off , Holder waits on it and runs it past the lone slip , third man is very square and the ball races away to the fence 22.6 Vettori to J Holder , 1 run , run-out chance , Holder punches this flatter delivery to Vettori 's right , who dives to his right and tries to effect a run-out at the non-striker 's end , but Russell was in , the ball goes to McCullum 's right and the batsmen then set off for the single , but McCullum quickly runs across , dives and throws it towards the keeper , but it was a weak throw and Russell just about makes it in time 22.5 Vettori to J Holder , no run , slower and just outside off , defended with soft hands and towards point 22.4 Vettori to J Holder , no run , flighted and on off , driven towards short cover Jason Holder , right handed bat , comes to the crease 22.3 Vettori to J Carter , out Bowled ! ! Carter has yorked himself ! He ca n't believe it , stares towards the non-striker for a few moments before walking away in anguish. This was tossed up ever so slowly by Vettori , gave plenty of air as well , Carter stepped forward on the drive , ends up playing all around the ball , it clips the off-stump , the zing bails go up , and it 's the seventh wicket down. J Carter b Vettori 32 ( 39 ) [ 4s-4 6s-1 ] Vettori to J Carter , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 22.2 Vettori to A Russell , 1 run , slower and on the stumps , Russell controls his urge for the big shot and works it towards mid-wicket 22.1 Vettori to A Russell , no run , tossed up and just outside off , Russell lunges forward and blocks 21.6 Corey Anderson to J Carter , no run , short of a length and in that corridor outside off , Carter drops his wrists and lets it go 21.5 Corey Anderson to A Russell , 1 run , a misfield from Guptill , his first mistake of the day , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed towards backward point where Guptill let the ball slip underneath 21.4 Corey Anderson to A Russell , FOUR , short of a length and just outside off , Russell makes room and hacks it past mid-wicket , did n't get hold of the shot , but hits the gap and races away to the fence 21.3 Corey Anderson to A Russell , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Russell stays inside the line and dabs it towards point 21.2 Corey Anderson to J Carter , 1 run , short and wide from Anderson , slapped towards deep cover for a single Andre Russell , right handed bat , comes to the crease 21.1 Corey Anderson to Sammy , out Caught by Ronchi ! ! Sammy has thrown it away ! West Indies needed to score at 8 RPO , but this is an awful shot from the former captain. Anderson banged one short as Sammy came down the track , he was in no position on the pull , ends up getting a top-edge. The ball went straight up and very high , Ronchi calls for the catch and holds on. Sixth wicket down and the end is nigh. Sammy c Ronchi b Corey Anderson 27 ( 16 ) [ 4s-3 6s-1 ] Corey Anderson to Sammy , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 21.1 Corey Anderson to Sammy , wide , Anderson starts off with a high bumper , given as a wide Corey Anderson , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 20.6 Vettori to J Carter , no run , loud shout for LBW , but it looked like it was sliding down leg , Carter went for the switch hit and missed it completely , the impact was on leg-stump , must have been going down 20.5 Vettori to Sammy , 1 run , slower and on off , Sammy makes room and jabs it to the left of the bowler , where McCullum dives at short cover and parries the ball towards Vettori intentionally with his right hand , Vettori ca n't stop the ball in time even though he was running back , Sammy sees that and calls Carter for the single 20.4 Vettori to Sammy , no run , flighted and just outside off , Sammy prods across and defends it 20.3 Vettori to J Carter , 1 run , tossed up and wider outside off , Carter looks to sweep and drags it past square leg for a single 20.2 Vettori to Sammy , 1 run , flighted delivery and just outside off , Sammy drive and gets an inside edge towards long-on 20.1 Vettori to J Carter , 1 run , Boult drops one short and just outside off , pulled away towards deep mid-wicket for a single Boult finishes his spell with figures of 10-3-44-4. He is also the highest wicket-taker in the tournament with 19 wickets . 19.6 Boult to Sammy , no run , good response from Boult , the bumper and over Sammy 's head , he went down as he ducked under it , loses his footing and then rolls over , he gets up and signals the 'cut-throat ' symbol to Boult , who also shares a smile with Sammy afterwards 19.5 Boult to Sammy , SIX , Sammy has teed-off , this is an incredible strike ! On a good length and just outside off , Sammy stays back , uses his wrists and lifts it high and over mid-off , goes sailing over the ropes for a maximum 19.4 Boult to J Carter , 1 run , back of a length and on Carter 's pads , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single , the throw was a little too close to Sammy , who arches back to allow the ball to go through to the keeper , he then gives a thumbs up to Elliott , who was the fielder at deep square leg 19.3 Boult to J Carter , 2 runs , nicely played by Carter , short and well outside off , pulled away in front of square on the on-side , Elliott gets across from the deep and keeps them down to a brace 19.2 Boult to J Carter , no run , on a good length and well outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover 19.1 Boult to Sammy , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , dabbed in front of cover-point for a quick single , Boult sprints across and looks to shy at the stumps , ca n't gather the ball cleanly 18.6 Vettori to J Carter , FOUR , 17 from the over , full-toss from Vettori , drilled past extra cover for a boundary , no need to run for those 18.5 Vettori to J Carter , SIX , Carter is into the attack , slower and wider from Vettori , Carter goes down on his knees , fetches it from well outside off and sweeps it into the mid-wicket boundary for a massive six , one hand came off on impact , but there was plenty of bat on that 18.4 Vettori to Sammy , 1 run , pushed through and just outside off , Sammy looks to cut and gets a thick edge towards short third man 18.3 Vettori to Sammy , FOUR , Vettori is going for plenty here ! This was tossed up and wider outside off , Sammy gets forward , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and goes inside out over extra cover for a boundary , McCullum at short cover leapt high and got his fingertips to it , but there was no catching that ball as it was travelling 18.2 Vettori to J Carter , 1 run , half-tracker and nearly a wicket ! Carter rocked back on the pull , just gets it wide of mid-wicket for a single 18.1 Vettori to Sammy , 1 run , Vettori drops one short and well outside off , Sammy makes room and cuts it square on the off-side for a single Daniel Vettori [ 1.0-0-21-0 ] is back into the attack Gayle 's gone and his coach in Bangalore , Vettori is back Jamie says " there are some fast-moving grey clouds overhead " at the Cake Tin . 17.6 Boult to J Carter , no run , another yorker length delivery and just outside off , Carter hurriedly gets his bat down and jams it towards short square leg 17.5 Boult to J Carter , no run , tad fuller and well outside off , driven with a straight bat towards mid-off 17.4 Boult to Sammy , 1 run , that 's a peach of a yorker from Boult , but equally well played by Sammy , watches it right until the last moment and digs it out towards gully , sneaks in a single as well 17.3 Boult to Sammy , no run , Boult shortens his length and gets it to angle across Sammy , he looks to dab it towards third man and misses 17.2 Boult to J Carter , 1 run , full and on Carter 's pads , flicked towards mid-on. The fielder hits the stumps at the bowler 's end and concedes an overthrow 17.1 Boult to J Carter , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Carter prods across and defends it 16.6 Milne to Sammy , 2 runs , back of a length and well outside off , Sammy gets forward on an expansive drive , realises that the length is short and ends up slicing it backward of square on the off-side. Elliott gets across , puts in the slide and keeps them down to a couple of runs 16.5 Milne to J Carter , 1 run , tad fuller and just outside off , driven towards mid-off for a single 16.4 Milne to Sammy , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , dabbed away towards third man for a single 16.3 Milne to Sammy , FOUR , excellent effort from Williamson first , and then McCullum , but the ball hit the ropes. This was pitched up and just outside off , Sammy leaned forward , played with an open face and drives it past cover. Both gave chase , Williamson dragged it back into play , but the ball went back and hit the ropes , before McCullum could retrieve it with another dive 16.2 Milne to Sammy , FOUR , that 's not a bad way to get going , floaty half-volley from Milne , Sammy leans forward and drills it through extra cover for a boundary Darren Sammy , right handed bat , comes to the crease 16.1 Milne to Gayle , out Bowled ! ! Knocked him over ! That should be the game for New Zealand. This was pitched up and went with the angle , Gayle cleared his right leg and looked to hoick it over mid-wicket , gets an inside edge and the off-stump goes cart-wheeling. Milne is delighted to bits , he is mobbed by his mates. Gayle raises his bat towards the crowd as he walks away , perhaps for the final time in a World Cup match. Gayle b Milne 61 ( 33 ) [ 4s-2 6s-8 ] Milne to Gayle , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 15.6 Boult to J Carter , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Carter stands tall and pushes it towards short extra cover 15.5 Boult to J Carter , no run , that 's a screamer from Boult , pitched up and nipping away late , draws Carter into the drive before whizzing past the outside edge , did n't miss the off-stump by much 15.4 Boult to J Carter , no run , another well-directed short ball , the line was just outside off as well , Carter went for the pull and missed 15.3 Boult to J Carter , no run , on a good length and on the stumps , Carter watches it all along and defends it back towards the bowler 15.2 Boult to J Carter , FOUR , that 's nicely played ! Fraction short and well outside off , Carter swivels across and pulls it in front of square on the on-side , no chance for the man in the deep 15.1 Boult to Gayle , 1 run , on a length and on Gayle 's pads , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single Gayle though , continued to deal in sixes. In particular , Gayle targeted the mid-wicket region to hammer Daniel Vettori for three sixes. It is surprising to note that Brendon McCullum used Vettori with Gayle at the crease. It is risky to try a slow left-arm orthodox against a left-hander , known for playing across the line and smashing sixes over mid-wicket. Gayle also played a wondrous shot on the back foot off Boult for a six over the long-on region. He reached his fifty in just 26 balls. Interestingly , he has mainly scored runs through the on-side. Marlon Samuels looked in good form as well , but Vettori showed outstanding judgment at third man to take a ripper of a catch and send him back to the pavilion. For New Zealand , Boult has again been on the money. He has swung the new ball and more importantly , pitched it up to take four wickets . Johnson Charles looked to take the aggressive route , but it was always going to be an uphill task to take on Trent Boult with the new ball. On expected lines , Boult uprooted his stumps. Lendl Simmons too came out all guns blazing , but was soon caught in the slips by Martin Guptill off Boult. The left-armer 's angle did the trick for Boult . Drinks are on the field now. The run-rate is very good for West Indies , but they have lost too many wickets up front . 14.6 Milne to J Carter , no run , good length delivery just outside off stump , Carter lets it go 14.5 Milne to J Carter , no run , length ball on the leg stump , defended to mid-wicket 14.4 Milne to J Carter , no run , back of a length just outside off stump , Carter defends off the back foot 14.3 Milne to Gayle , 1 run , good length delivery on the stumps , Gayle turns it through backward square leg 14.2 Milne to Gayle , SIX , you might be one of the fastest bowlers around , but if you do n't get your act right to Gayle , he 'll smash you. Short and asking to be hit , Gayle pulls it handsomely over mid-wicket and that 's his 8th six today 14.1 Milne to Gayle , no run , short delivery on the stumps , Gayle sways out at the last moment 13.6 Boult to J Carter , no run , an excellent yorker on the off stump , Carter digs it out. This is the third maiden over for Boult 13.5 Boult to J Carter , no run , inswinging full toss , Carter hits it straight to mid-wicket 13.4 Boult to J Carter , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Carter cuts it to the right of point 13.3 Boult to J Carter , no run , driven to mid-on 13.2 Boult to J Carter , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Carter gets an inside edge as he was trying to leave the ball , luckily , it did n't go back onto the stumps 13.1 Boult to J Carter , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Carter looks to defend but gets beaten as the ball nips away Coming back to the Samuels dismissal again , he could not believe what he saw. He just stood there midway on the pitch with his right hand on the hip in disbelief . Jamie is enjoying every moment from the ground and this is what he has to say - 'Some sizzling batting from Gayle. You can feel those shots around the ground. The crowd 's lapping them up , but no sound has topped the one that emanated after Vettori 's one-handed stunner.' 12.6 Milne to Gayle , no run , on the stumps , defended to mid-off , Gayle lifts his hand up and signals to Carter that the single was not on 12.5 Milne to Gayle , no run , short of length delivery nipping away outside off stump , Gayle looks to defend but gets beaten 12.4 Milne to Gayle , FOUR , it 's a 26-ball fifty for Gayle , who is coming back from injury. Short of a length delivery down the leg-side , Gayle gets a faint little tickle and it goes to fine leg. No celebrations from Gayle , he knows that the job is not done 12.3 Milne to Gayle , no run , gets behind the line and defends well 12.2 Milne to J Carter , 1 run , again down the leg-side , Carter helps it down to fine leg. Milne fell in his followthrough 12.2 Milne to J Carter , wide , gets the radar wrong again as he bowls down the leg-side , Carter fails to tickle it on its way 12.1 Milne to Gayle , 1 run , short of length delivery down the leg-side , Gayle glances it down to fine leg Adam Milne , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 11.6 Boult to J Carter , no run , back of a length delivery to end the over , Carter misses the flick and gets hit on the pad. The angle was taking it down the leg-side 11.5 Boult to J Carter , FOUR , cracking shot ! Full and just swinging away outside off stump , Carter drives very hard through that big gap between point and mid-off 11.4 Boult to J Carter , no run , good length delivery on the stumps , Carter turns it into the on-side 11.4 Boult to J Carter , wide , down the leg-side , easy call for the umpire 11.3 Boult to J Carter , FOUR , short and wide outside off stump , Carter rocks back and cuts it hard and sends it through backward point for four 11.2 Boult to J Carter , no run , full delivery outside off stump , Carter drives it to mid-off 11.1 Boult to J Carter , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Carter tries to defend but gets hit on the thigh pad. In fact , he got an inside edge , the ball goes towards the slip cordon , third slip dives to his right but it does n't carry to him After completing the catch , Vettori just threw the ball up in the air without showing any emotions. Boult had a big smile on his face on seeing the catch being taken , while Baz was extremely happy as well. The Cake Tin faithful stood and applauded. In fact , someone from the crowd threw an orange shirt behind him , signifying the fact that he deserved a million dollars for that stunner ! Also , the 12th man McClenaghan came out to congratulate Vettori . 10.6 Southee to Gayle , no run , goes round the wicket and bowls a low full toss , Gayle flicks it to mid-wicket 10.5 Southee to Gayle , SIX , do n't bowl length balls to this man when he 's in the mood. Right in the slot , Gayle smashes it high over long-on. That was so easily done 10.4 Southee to Gayle , no run , good length delivery on the stumps , Gayle loses the bottom hand grip while defending this one 10.3 Southee to Gayle , SIX , flat hit and it 's gone for six. Short and outside off stump , Gayle pulls it very hard again and the fielders could only watch the ball sail over the boundary 10.2 Southee to Gayle , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Gayle chops the cut into the ground 10.1 Southee to Gayle , no run , short of length delivery on the leg stump , Gayle defends off the back foot 9.6 Boult to J Carter , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Carter shoulders arms Jonathan Carter , left handed bat , comes to the crease 9.5 Boult to Ramdin , out Lbw ! ! Thankfully no review from Ramdin. It would have been an absolute waste of time. Plumb in front. Nothing but a good length delivery on the stumps , Ramdin looks to drive but misses , gets hit on the pad. The impact was so hard that it twisted the pad. He was hit around the off stump and it would have crashed into middle and leg. All four wickets to Boult and he 's on fire. Ramdin lbw b Boult 0 ( 4 ) Boult to Ramdin , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Ramdin has been given OUT LBW. Is he reviewing ? No , he 's walking ! 9.4 Boult to Ramdin , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Ramdin shoulders arms Round the wicket 9.3 Boult to Ramdin , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , left alone 9.2 Boult to Ramdin , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Ramdin dabbed it to point Denesh Ramdin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 9.1 Boult to Samuels , out Caught by Vettori ! ! Oh ! What a catch Daniel Vettori. The youngster has taken a ripper. It looked as if it was going for six , but he 's jumped high at the last moment and grabbed a left-handed stunner. How old is he ? 18 , 20 ? Gee ! Short and outside off stump , Samuels backs away and cuts , does n't bother to keep it down. He was looking to clear the boundary. Vettori at third man was so cool. He watched the ball all the way , just jumped at the right moment. The timing was so important and he 's taken it brilliantly. Can someone give him a million dollars to take a one-handed catch ? After Vettori completed the catch , the entire New Zealand team rushed to his fielding position and mobbed him. Samuels c Vettori b Boult 27 ( 15 ) [ 4s-3 6s-1 ] Boult to Samuels , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! West Indies have scored 50 runs off the last three overs . 8.6 Southee to Samuels , 1 run , yorker on the leg stump , Samuels squeezes it out to fine leg 8.5 Southee to Samuels , FOUR , it 's a top edge and it 's good enough to get to the boundary. The fifty partnership comes off just 20 balls. Short and on the stumps , Samuels pulls and gets away with the edge , fine leg was way too square 8.4 Southee to Samuels , SIX , " oh lovely , that 's gone for six as well , " says Ian Bishop on air. Excellent shot from Samuels. Stays leg-side to this full ball , does n't try to over-hit the ball and lofts it over extra-cover 8.3 Southee to Samuels , 2 runs , full and on the stumps , Samuels swings hard and gets an inside edge that goes to fine leg 8.2 Southee to Samuels , FOUR , oh he 's dug out a low full toss and it 's gone for four. Southee tries the yorker , but misses , Samuels sends it through mid-wicket , Vettori gives chase but loses the race this time 8.1 Southee to Samuels , FOUR , smashed ! Good length delivery outside off stump , Samuels drives very hard through cover , the fielder dived to his left , but it was hit with immense power Tim Southee [ 3.0-0-20-0 ] is back into the attack 7.6 Boult to Gayle , no run , huge shout for LBW , not given and they do n't have the review. Gayle did n't expect Boult to bowl a yorker , although it was n't quite a yorker in the end , it surprised Gayle , who just about managed to get an inside edge onto pad 7.6 Boult to Gayle , wide , full and down the leg-side , Gayle fails to help it on its way 7.5 Boult to Gayle , SIX , it 's high in the air and it 's gone all the way. Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Gayle stays on the back foot and plays a lofted shot , hits it very straight and clears long-on 7.4 Boult to Gayle , no run , short and on the off stump , defended off the back foot 7.3 Boult to Samuels , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Samuels slices the drive to third man 7.2 Boult to Samuels , no run , width on offer outside off stump , Samuels cuts and picks out cover-point 7.1 Boult to Samuels , no run , short of length delivery on the leg stump , Samuels misses the flick and gets hit on the thigh pad 6.6 Vettori to Gayle , SIX , a hat-trick of sixes. Not sure why Baz introduced Vettori now. This was fired in flat , but Gayle slogged it hard enough for it to go over backward square leg. Wickets in hand will be the key for West Indies 6.5 Vettori to Gayle , SIX , Vettori goes over the wicket , but it does n't matter. Flighted delivery on the stumps , Gayle smashes it over deep mid-wicket again 6.4 Vettori to Gayle , SIX , Gayle wo n't mind Vettori bowling ! The ball will come into him and he can target mid-wicket as he has done now. Flighted delivery on the stumps , Gayle brings out the slog and hits it high over deep mid-wicket 6.3 Vettori to Samuels , 1 run , on the leg stump , pushed to mid-on 6.2 Vettori to Gayle , 1 run , fired down the leg side , Gayle swings hard and hits it straight to backward square leg , who fumbles the ball 6.1 Vettori to Samuels , 1 run , Samuels drives this along the ground to long-off Daniel Vettori , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack Slip and leg slip in place 5.6 Boult to Samuels , 1 run , punched wide of cover , they take a quick single , Baz rushes to the ball quickly and has a shy at the striker 's end but misses. A direct-hit would have been out as Gayle was struggling to make his ground. After completing the run , Gayle has a chat with Guptill in the slip cordon 5.5 Boult to Samuels , no run , short and rising , Samuels awkwardly manages to keep it out 5.4 Boult to Samuels , 2 runs , edgedddd but safe. My word ! Four fielders chase the ball. Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Samuels looks to defend , the ball goes off the shoulder of the bat and evades gully , Vettori beats three of his mates , slides and saves two Three slips and a gully in place Marlon Samuels , right handed bat , comes to the crease 5.3 Boult to Simmons , out Caught by Guptill ! ! Boult has his revenge. Full and outside off stump , Simmons goes for the drive , but gets a thick edge , the ball flies to second slip where Guptill takes an easy catch to his right. Just when the batsmen were looking to be positive , West Indies have lost a key wicket. Second wicket for Boult. Simmons c Guptill b Boult 12 ( 17 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] Boult to Simmons , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 5.2 Boult to Simmons , SIX , that gets the West Indies supporters going. Full and outside off stump , Simmons backs away and carves it away over extra-cover 5.1 Boult to Simmons , no run , good length delivery on the stumps , Simmons misses the flick and gets hit on the pad , but the ball pitched outside leg 4.6 Southee to Gayle , FOUR , lofted in the air and again , the fielder is very wide. A man at conventional mid-on would have swallowed the ball. Full and outside off stump , Gayle lofts it through mid-on and picks up four. Looks like Gayle is in the mood. West Indies need him to come to the party 4.5 Southee to Gayle , SIX , my word ! He 's hit that like a rocket. Short ball from Southee , Gayle climbs onto it and pulls it very hard , there was a man at deep mid-wicket , but it cleared him 4.4 Southee to Simmons , 1 run , short and on the stumps , Simmons pulls it to deep backward square leg , where Boult makes a sliding save 4.3 Southee to Simmons , no run , full and outside off stump , driven to mid-off , Baz fires a direct-hit at the bowler 's end but Gayle was in 4.2 Southee to Simmons , FOUR , driven uppishly and mid-off is very square. Calculated hit from Simmons. Good length delivery outside off stump , Simmons lifts it to the left of the bowler and picks up his first boundary 4.1 Southee to Simmons , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Simmons defends off the back foot 3.6 Boult to Simmons , 1 run , driven nicely but Vettori is very square at third man and it goes straight to him 3.5 Boult to Simmons , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Simmons defends and gets an inside edge that goes towards backward square leg 3.4 Boult to Simmons , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Simmons defends it towards cover-point Goes round the wicket . 3.3 Boult to Simmons , no run , fullish in length and outside off stump , Simmons drives it into the off-side covering the inswing 3.2 Boult to Simmons , no run , the ball nips back in , Simmons misses the flick and gets hit on the thigh pad. It was too high though 3.1 Boult to Simmons , no run , short of length delivery swinging back in , defended towards cover 2.6 Southee to Gayle , no run , McCullum shakes his head as he walks back to his mark. The keeper hardly appealed , but Southee was absolutely convinced and that forced Baz to send it upstairs. This is ugly batting from Gayle. Pokes a long way away from the body at this short of length delivery , the ball just nips away and beats the bat Huge shout for caught behind. Not given. Southee reviewed straightaway. He was so confident. " Fair delivery , " says Tucker. " Not conclusive on spin vision , can we go to RTS ( Real Time Snicko ) . There 's nothing there so it 's not out , " adds Tucker . 2.6 Southee to Gayle , wide , Southee sprays this down the leg-side , Gayle falls over while trying to tickle it fine but misses 2.5 Southee to Gayle , no run , inside edge onto pad this time. Gayle is hardly moving his feet and making an attempt to get behind the line. He tries to work it on the on-side and gets away with the edge 2.4 Southee to Gayle , no run , another good bouncer from Southee and Gayle is uncomfortable at the crease. Gayle tries to defend , but the ball beats the outside edge 2.3 Southee to Gayle , no run , short and just outside off stump , Gayle dabs at it awkwardly , luckily it does n't carry to third slip 2.2 Southee to Gayle , no run , that 's a very good take from Ronchi ! Full and outside off stump , Gayle lets it go , the ball hits the bowler 's foot marks and rises steeply , but Ronchi does well to grab it high with his right hand 2.1 Southee to Gayle , no run , Gayle is slightly opened up by this away-going short of length delivery , but he manages to defend 1.6 Boult to Simmons , no run , Boult bowls an inswinger on the off stump , Simmons gets behind the line and defends well. Boult starts off with a wicket-maiden 1.5 Boult to Simmons , no run , length ball angling away from the right-hander , Simmons shoulders arms 1.4 Boult to Simmons , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , left alone 1.3 Boult to Simmons , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , the inswing takes the inside edge , but it does n't carry to keeper Lendl Simmons , right handed bat , comes to the crease 1.2 Boult to Charles , out Bowled ! ! Knocked him over ! A nothing shot from Charles. Fullish inswinger on the off stump , Charles stays leg-side and looks to force the drive through cover , misses the ball completely and it uproots the off stump. Not the ideal start for West Indies chasing a mammoth total. I hope West Indies give a good fight. Quite often , these high-scorers turn out to be one-sided contests. Charles b Boult 3 ( 6 ) Boult to Charles , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 1.1 Boult to Charles , no run , bit of swing straightaway for Boult. This short of length delivery comes back in , Charles hardly moves his feet , fails to defend and gets hit on the thigh pad Trent Boult , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Southee to Gayle , no run , good length delivery from Southee to finish the over , Gayle defends 0.5 Southee to Charles , 1 run , Southee bangs it shot , Charles rocks back and pulls , keeps it along the ground and hits it through backward square leg , Elliott runs to his right and makes a sliding save in the deep 0.4 Southee to Charles , 2 runs , Charles swings across the line and gets a thickish inside edge that rolls to deep square leg 0.3 Southee to Charles , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Charles defends 0.2 Southee to Charles , no run , and immediately Charles slogs , makes room and advances , but drags the hit straight to the fielder at mid-on Three slips in for Southee against Charles 0.1 Southee to Gayle , 1 run , quick single taken to mid-off , Gayle closes the face of the bat and gets it down wide of McCullum , strolls across in the end Gayle and Charles are at the crease. Gayle is on strike. Southee will open the attack Welcome back. Gayle will have to play out of his skin for West Indies to have any chance. Simple Martin Guptill is trending on twitter. Here 's a collection of a few tweets @ mohanstatsman : Highest WC scores... . Gary Kirsten 's 188 * lasted 19y-8d Chris Gayle 's 215 lasted 25 days ! Martin Guptill 237 * for how long ? @ prempanicker : Samuels  who dropped Guptill on 4 - has hit 203 runs in 6 games with 17 fours and 4 sixes. And watched MG hit 23 4s and 11 6s ( 233 runs ) @ rob_zooter : That was an absolute flogging...153 in the last 10 overs and one of the great ODI innings.. # nzvwi @ johnkeypm : Amazing double century by @ Martyguptill , congratulations ! @ cricketaakash : No reverse sweeps , no scoops , no switch hits...Guptil 's 237 has shown that there 's room for some old-fashioned cricket too. Well played . Guptill : " It 's a great feeling. The job is only half done now , we 've got to go out there and finish it off. I thank the crowd for coming in and supporting us. Obviously there is pressure , but you try and put that behind. Luckily , it paid off today. It was good to spend a bit of time out there ( against Bangladesh ) and it was good to play the 50 overs here. It 's a bit tough at the start , but once you get in , you can score freely. " For the West Indies to have any chance of chasing down this mammoth target , they need Gayle to fire on all cylinders. In short , New Zealand will back themselves to win this game . Earlier , McCullum came out all guns blazing , but Holder took an excellent catch off Jerome Taylor to send him back to the pavilion. Runs flowed smoothly from Kane Williamson 's bat before Russell snared his wicket. West Indies also would rue the fact that Marlon Samuels dropped a catch at square leg to give Guptill a reprieve in the very first over of the innings . Once he completed his century , Guptill touched noteworthy crests by playing power-packed shots. In the 38th over , he twinned brilliant wrist-work and power to clout Taylor for 16 runs. By then he had already muscled Darren Sammy for a 101-metre six. He also clobbered Jason Holder for two sixes in the 43rd over and reached his double century in style with a boundary. To put the icing on the cake , the six he smashed off Andre Russell in the final over was a 110-metre six ! Ross Taylor too played his part by playing a useful hand to score 42. Unlike Guptill , Taylor did n't exactly bisect the gaps to send the fielders on a leather hunt. However , it was his partnership with Guptill that helped New Zealand to set the platform for a monstrous total. Once Taylor was dismissed , Grant Elliott played imperious strokes as well . Guptill played with placid calmness at the start of his innings as he looked to present the full face of the bat to collect boundaries straight down the ground. Jerome Taylor bowling half-volleys did n't help West Indies ' cause. Despite losing Brendon McCullum and Kane Williamson , Guptill continued to unfurl a series of boundaries to put more pressure on the opposition . Martin Guptill , with his splendid spread of run-scoring made the opposition camp feel the full weight of his meaty willow to crack a believe-it-or-not innings of 237 not out and take them to a massive total. Guptill with his double hundred broke a slew of records. Guptill turned out to be only the second batsman to crack a double ton in World Cups and broke the record for the highest individual score in World Cups. Interestingly , Chris Gayle 's double hundred also came in this mega event. His knock is the second highest individual score in the history of ODIs. He became the first batsman from New Zealand to compile back-to-back centuries in the history of the World Cup. Guptill scored consecutive hundreds for the second time in his ODI career. He is only the second batsman from his country to amass a score of 100 plus in a knockout game. He now holds the record for the highest individual score by a cricketer from New Zealand as well . Some of the crowd wearing the orange t-shirts bow down to Martin Guptill for his brilliance , while Mrs. Guptill gets very emotional in the stands. He gets a standing ovation now. Phew ! What a knock. So if you are dropped on 4 , you go on to make a double-hundred I guess. Remember , Rohit Sharma was dropped on 4 , when he made 264 at the Eden Gardens a few months ago . 49.6 A Russell to Guptill , 2 runs , fine yorker on the leg stump , Guptill digs it out towards deep mid-wicket , Holder fumbles and they steal a second run as well. Russell is not happy with his captain 's effort and he flicks the bails off at the bowler 's end in anger. Sulieman Benn walk up to Guptill and congratulates him for his knock 49.5 A Russell to Guptill , FOUR , he 's squeezed that out for four ! Full and outside off stump , Guptill drives it over backward point and gets to 235 49.4 A Russell to Guptill , SIX , in the airrrrr and just over Jerome Taylor at long-off. Russell misses the yorker again , bowls it in the slot for the batsman to go big , Guptill does n't try to overhit the ball , just lofts it over long-off 49.3 A Russell to Guptill , 2 runs , full and outside off stump , Guptill drills it to long-off , Vettori races back for the second and that 's great running from the veteran 49.2 A Russell to Guptill , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Guptill slogs and misses 49.1 A Russell to Guptill , SIX , oh my word ! He 's hit that onto the roof. A full toss and Guptill smacks it high and handsomely over deep mid-wicket for a 110-metre hit. After that Guptill goes to the non-striker , who pats him on the back. Guptill then realised that he is the second man to hit the ball on the roof at this ground and he signals two to the dressing room to tell them the same thing. He was making that signal to Craig McMillan , the Kiwi batting coach , who was the first man to do so. The camera then focusses on Craig McMillan , who acknowledges the signal and gives a thumbs up to Guptill 48.6 Jerome Taylor to Vettori , FOUR , this is unfair , Daniel Vettori ! He walked right across the stumps , Taylor followed him with a yorker , Vettori tried to flick it , but the ball took the inside edge and went past the stumps to the boundary 48.5 Jerome Taylor to Vettori , FOUR , Vettori gets a four first ball ! Full and in the slot , the slower ball in fact , but not good enough to trouble Vettori , who slogs it through mid-wicket Daniel Vettori , left handed bat , comes to the crease 48.4 Jerome Taylor to Ronchi , out Caught by Benn ! ! Soft dismissal. West Indies hardly celebrate. A fine yorker from Taylor , it was slightly down the leg-side , Ronchi flicks and picks out backward square leg to perfection. Ronchi is livid that he hit it straight to the fielder. Ronchi c Benn b Jerome Taylor 9 ( 5 ) [ 4s-2 ] Jerome Taylor to Ronchi , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 48.3 Jerome Taylor to Ronchi , no run , slower ball outside off stump , Ronchi swings early and misses 48.2 Jerome Taylor to Ronchi , FOUR , want runs ? Rush to the Cake Tin ! West Indies are offering freebies. Length and in the slot , Ronchi slogs it over mid-wicket and long-on had no chance 48.1 Jerome Taylor to Ronchi , FOUR , great start to the over again for the Black Caps. Fullish and outside off stump , Ronchi looks to drive but gets a thick edge that goes fine to the third man boundary 47.6 A Russell to Guptill , no run , slower delivery outside off stump , Guptill swings and misses 47.5 A Russell to Guptill , FOUR , this is some display from Guptill ! Full and wide outside off stump , Guptill reaches out and lofts it handsomely over extra-cover for a one bounce four , this is now the highest score in World Cup history 47.4 A Russell to Guptill , no run , Guptill backs away early , Russell bowls a wide yorker and Guptill could n't reach out 47.3 A Russell to Guptill , FOUR , misses the yorker and bowls a low full toss , Guptill swings across the line and hits it along the ground to the deep mid-wicket boundary this time 47.2 A Russell to Guptill , SIX , wow ! West Indies keep offering juicy full balls and Guptill does n't miss out. Slogged hard and over deep mid-wicket 47.1 A Russell to Guptill , FOUR , that 's it ! Sixth double-hundred in ODI cricket and the first New Zealander to do it. This is also the first double-hundred in a World Cup knockout game. What a moment for Guptill. The Cake Tin stands and applauds. His wife is absolutely elated in the stands. What an innings ! Full and outside off stump , Guptill smashes it through mid-off for four. Guptill had his hands aloft as he runs , takes the helmet off and raises his bat to acknowledge the applause. His wife is punching the air in delight and he gets a hug from Ronchi. He was dropped on 4 alright , but he has been unstoppable since then 46.6 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , 1 run , short delivery on the leg stump , Guptill pulls it to deep mid-wicket 46.5 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , FOUR , has that gone all the way ? Noooo ! Just lands inside the rope. Full and on the leg stump , ca n't bowl there to a batsman batting on 194 , Guptill clears his front leg and smashes it hard and straight back over the bowler 's head 46.4 Jerome Taylor to Ronchi , 1 run , full toss on the off stump , Ronchi drills it to long-on Luke Ronchi , right handed bat , comes to the crease 46.3 Jerome Taylor to Elliott , out Lbw ! ! Full and on the stumps , Elliott would have backed himself to smash that out of the ground , goes too much across the stumps and misses the ball as he swings hard , gets hit on the back leg. The impact was on middle and off and it looked absolutely plumb. The umpire had no hesitation in his mind and Elliott consumed the review as well. Anyway , he 's played a fine cameo. Elliott lbw b Jerome Taylor 27 ( 11 ) [ 4s-2 6s-2 ] Jerome Taylor to Elliott , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Elliott has been given OUT LBW , but he 's reviewed it. I think it 's a waste. Looked pretty OUT. " Fair delivery , " says Tucker. " We 'll move to spin vision please. We 'll go to RTS ( Reat Time Snicko ) please. I am happy with that. No bat involved. Can we go to ball-tracking please ? Okay , that 's pretty good , impact in line and you can stay with your decision , " adds Tucker . 46.2 Jerome Taylor to Elliott , FOUR , no Jerome Taylor , no ! He tries to take pace off the ball but does n't get the length right , offers a length ball in the end and Elliott , who made slight room and smashed it over cover. The ball bounced just inside the rope 46.1 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , 1 run , good length delivery on the off stump , Guptill swings and gets an inside edge that rolls to square leg Jerome Taylor [ 5.0-0-44-1 ] is back into the attack New Zealand have scored 46 runs off the last 2 overs. Now 380 looks very possible ! 45.6 A Russell to Elliott , no run , clever stuff from Russell , Elliott backed away early , Russell fired this full and outside off stump and the batsman was just ball-watching anticipating a wide 45.5 A Russell to Elliott , SIX , this is unfair for the bowler ! It was short and wide outside off stump , Elliott goes for the pull and he hits it over the deep mid-wicket fence. What a shot ! He almost flat-batted that 45.4 A Russell to Elliott , SIX , Russell tries the yorker , but bowls a juicy full ball , Elliott takes his front leg out of the way , goes deep in the crease as well and goes banngggg , over deep square leg 45.3 A Russell to Guptill , 1 run , top edge , but does n't carry to long leg. Short ball on the stumps , Guptill pulls and gets away with the edge 45.2 A Russell to Guptill , FOUR , this is lazy stuff from Sulieman Benn ! Surely had to put in the dive. This is Guptill 's highest ODI score. Short of a length delivery on the leg stump , Guptill tucks it along the ground through backward square leg , Benn runs to his left from fine leg , he was n't too far away but does n't employ the dive 45.1 A Russell to Elliott , 1 run , low full toss , Elliott hits it back at the bowler , who tries to grab it with his right hand in his followthrough and misses 45.1 A Russell to Elliott , wide , full and down the leg-side , Elliott tries to tickle it away , but misses 44.6 J Holder to Guptill , SIX , it 's six more ! Got to get your length right Jason Holder. These boundaries are n't big enough for Guptill. This is absolute carnage from Guptill. Full and outside off stump , Guptill does n't try to overhit the ball , just lofts it over extra-cover and times it extremely well. 27 came off that over 44.6 J Holder to Guptill , wide , short and on the stumps , Guptill lets it go , but the umpire does n't like the height on that one 44.5 J Holder to Guptill , SIX , wow ! Guptill does n't even bother looking up. Something that MS Dhoni did a few years ago in New Zealand after hitting the ball into the stands. Overpitched from Holder , Guptill slogs it over wide long-on and it goes a long way back into the stands 44.4 J Holder to Elliott , 3 runs , top edge but it goes over the keeper. Short and on the stumps , Elliott goes for the pull and gets an edge , Guptill quickly returns for the third run 44.3 J Holder to Elliott , FOUR , rank long hop and ohhhh dear ! Johnson Charles has overran the ball. Short delivery on the stumps , Elliott pulls it to deep mid-wicket , Charles runs to his right but the ball spins away at the last moment and foxes him 44.2 J Holder to Guptill , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Guptill lofts this over wide mid-off and it goes on the bounce to the man in the deep 44.1 J Holder to Guptill , SIX , this is the highest score by a New Zealand player in World Cup cricket. The change of angle does n't work for Holder. He misses the yorker once again and bowls a full ball , it 's in the slot and Guptill slogs it over mid-wicket , deep mid wicket runs to his left and jumps but the ball evades him Holder comes round the wicket Alright ! Six overs to go. Can New Zealand get to 340-350 ? They should be able to get there I guess ! 43.6 A Russell to Elliott , no run , short ball on the stumps , Elliott gets inside the line and pulls , but misses the ball 43.5 A Russell to Elliott , 2 runs , easily guided away to the right of the third man and good running gives Elliott and New Zealand two 43.4 A Russell to Guptill , 1 run , overpitched , but Guptill only manages to flick it along the ground to deep mid-wicket 43.3 A Russell to Elliott , 1 run , sensible stuff from Elliott , just dabs the good length delivery towards gully and gets Guptill back on strike Grant Elliott , right handed bat , comes to the crease 43.2 A Russell to Corey Anderson , out Caught by Gayle ! ! Russell gets another wicket with a slower ball. It was bowled at 122.5kph , Anderson thought it was a length ball and swung early , the ball goes off the toe-end of the bat and goes towards mid-wicket. Gayle moves to his right and jumps a touch to catch it with both hands to his right. West Indies will be happy to see the back of Anderson as he could have done a lot of damage in the last few overs. Corey Anderson c Gayle b A Russell 15 ( 16 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] A Russell to Corey Anderson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 43.1 A Russell to Corey Anderson , no run , fires this full and wide outside off stump , Anderson reaches and squeezes it , but picks back backward point 42.6 J Holder to Guptill , SIX , oh dear ! A friendly full toss and Guptill helps himself to another six. This time Guptill swings across the line and sends it high over deep square leg. The West Indies captain not getting his act right in that over , 16 came off it 42.5 J Holder to Guptill , 2 runs , he 's dug out a yorker and got two. The ball rolled gently to mid-on and before long-on could tidy up , Anderson raced back for the second 42.4 J Holder to Guptill , SIX , goes aerial and goes all the way. Dropped in the crowd ! Juicy full ball outside off stump , Holder missed the yorker and Guptill got under it easily , lofted it over extra-cover for another maximum , his 4th of the day 42.3 J Holder to Corey Anderson , 1 run , low full toss , drilled very hard but straight to long-off 42.2 J Holder to Corey Anderson , no run , full and outside off stump , Anderson mistimes the drive to cover 42.1 J Holder to Guptill , 1 run , very full from Holder , Guptill drives it down to long-on Jason Holder [ 6.0-0-33-0 ] is back into the attack 41.6 A Russell to Guptill , 1 run , yorker outside off , dug out and a single taken on the off-side 41.5 A Russell to Guptill , 2 runs , Carter fumbles at deep square leg. He is generally a very good fielder , but makes a mistake that time after Guptill whipped that off his pads 41.5 A Russell to Guptill , wide , low full toss , down leg , Russell went for the yorker and lost direction 41.4 A Russell to Corey Anderson , 1 run , very full outside off , Corey Anderson drives and mistimes it to mid-off. Gets a single though 41.3 A Russell to Corey Anderson , FOUR , shows his cricketing awareness by lofting over mid-off. It was a full ball on the stumps , predictable really and Corey Anderson was up for it. Gets it over the fielder inside the ring 41.2 A Russell to Corey Anderson , SIX , top edge goes all the way. Russell again dug it in short , Corey Anderson was waiting for it and the top edge helps him get a six to deep backward square leg. Brute power from Anderson 41.1 A Russell to Corey Anderson , no run , Corey Anderson is early into the pull and he misses out , Russell bowling short and getting away Andre Russell [ 5.0-0-20-1 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Benn to Guptill , no run , Benn gets away with a poor delivery , it was short and on middle and leg , pulled straight to the fielder at short fine. Either side of the fielder and it was a boundary 40.5 Benn to Corey Anderson , 1 run , fired in and very full on the stumps , drilled to long-on 40.5 Benn to Corey Anderson , wide , fired down leg. Good take by Ramdin 40.4 Benn to Corey Anderson , no run , flicked straight to the fielder at short mid-wicket 40.3 Benn to Guptill , 1 run , 150 for Guptill and he once again shows his bat to someone in the crowd. Could be Mrs Guptill. She is all smiles as she claps. Guptill got there with a cut to the right of point. Can he get to 200 ? It is very much a possibility 40.2 Benn to Guptill , FOUR , Guptill sweeps it away. So easy. On middle , he knelt down and got it over the men on the on-side inside the ring. Punches gloves with Corey Anderson after scoring that boundary 40.1 Benn to Guptill , no run , slower and on the stumps , the ball stops on Guptill who was looking for the big hit , he eventually adjusts and defends back to Benn 39.6 J Holder to Corey Anderson , 2 runs , slower delivery , sits up a bit for Corey Anderson to club that past the diving extra cover , Carter runs around from sweeper and does well , keeps it to two 39.5 J Holder to Corey Anderson , no run , pitches outside leg and Corey Anderson misses out on the flick , looks for a leg bye but it is n't there 39.5 J Holder to Corey Anderson , no run , pitches outside leg and Corey Anderson misses out on the flic Corey Anderson is getting his eye in 39.4 J Holder to Corey Anderson , no run , back of a length on off , Corey Anderson taps it to point Fine leg , mid-off and mid-on up 39.3 J Holder to Corey Anderson , no run , on a good length and outside off , angled across , Corey Anderson shoulders arms 39.2 J Holder to Guptill , 1 run , short of length and angling back in , Guptill opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man 39.1 J Holder to Guptill , FOUR , very poor bowling from Holder. It was an off-speed delivery , short and wide outside off , Guptill slashes over cover , almost went all the way , one bounce over the ropes Jason Holder [ 5.0-0-26-0 ] is back into the attack 38.6 Benn to Corey Anderson , no run , turning in , cramped for room on the cut is Corey Anderson , who mistimes it to point 38.5 Benn to Corey Anderson , no run , tossed up outside off , Corey Anderson gets forward and pushes it back to Benn Guptill was on his knees as he swept. When he looked up , Ross Taylor was near him , he said no , but it was too late 38.4 Benn to Guptill , 1 run , flat on leg stump , turned to square leg Corey Anderson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 38.3 Benn to Guptill , out Ross Taylor Run Out ! ! It had to happen. The run-out that is. Guptill swept and missed to a ball down leg , Ross Taylor set off for the leg bye and Ramdin runs forward and calmly passed the ball to Benn who did the rest. Ross Taylor was not even in the frame. Some respite for West Indies. Ross Taylor run out ( Ramdin/Benn ) 42 ( 61 ) [ 4s-2 ] Benn to Guptill , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 38.2 Benn to Guptill , SIX , Guptill is turning it on now. Floated up outside off , Guptill lofts through the line and it went 20 rows back at long-off. Just got forward and went for the shot. Cleared the fielder comfortably. Dropped in the crowd. But not by anyone wearing the Orange tee 38.1 Benn to Ross Taylor , 1 run , Ross Taylor uses his feet and taps it to long-on 37.6 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , FOUR , short-arm flick that was and it has gone straight to the boundary. Full and on off , Guptill whipped that with strong wrists and generated enough leverage to beat long-on 37.5 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , SIX , swung away ! Jerome Taylor misses his length , bowls it on a length outside off , Guptill picked him away with a flick of the wrists. The Kiwis in the crowd are a pumped up lot. They are right into the action 37.4 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , 2 runs , excellent running from Ross Taylor. He was the one who was pushing Guptill for the second. It was driven in front of long-on , Russell was the fielder there , he came charging forward , but the dive from Ross Taylor ensured he made it easy. Super stuff 37.3 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , no run , that 's the length to bowl. Jerome Taylor gets the yorker right , dug out back to the bowler 37.2 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , FOUR , slower delivery outside off , Guptill went over mid-wicket and even though the bat face closed on impact , he had enough on it to get it wide of the man running to his right from long-on 37.1 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , no run , back of a length outside off , Guptill stands tall and punches , but finds point Jerome Taylor [ 4.0-0-28-1 ] is back into the attack 36.6 Benn to Ross Taylor , no run , floated up on the stumps , Ross Taylor pushes it to the right of Benn 36.5 Benn to Guptill , 1 run , nudged to mid-wicket , for a single as Benn pulls the length back and puts it on middle and leg 36.4 Benn to Guptill , no run , cut again , but Benn gets away , Guptill finding point 36.3 Benn to Guptill , FOUR , another cut. Only Guptill knows how many cut shots he has played today. Off Benn. It was quicker and outside off , Guptill almost takes it off Ramdin 's gloves and puts it away past the short third inside the ring 36.2 Benn to Guptill , no run , now Benn beats Guptill outside off on the cut , it was way too full and a bit of extra bounce beat the shot 36.1 Benn to Guptill , FOUR , Benn is a disappointed man. He bowled it full and on the stumps , Guptill went for the big slog sweep and got a thick inside edge behind square , the fielder was inside the ring and there was no-one patrolling the fence in the deep Sulieman Benn [ 7.0-1-42-0 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Sammy to Guptill , 1 run , slower delivery outside off , softly dabbed to short third man , straight to the fielder 35.5 Sammy to Guptill , SIX , 101-metre hit ! Guptill golf-swung that over deep mid-wicket. It was just a length ball outside off and Guptill picked it up and used his long reach to muscle the ball. The ball kept sailing and sailing into the crowd. Sammy has his hands on his head and offers a meek smile 35.4 Sammy to Guptill , no run , good length outside off , Guptill punches it to cover 35.3 Sammy to Ross Taylor , 1 run , Ross Taylor nudges it to deep backward square leg , for a single 35.2 Sammy to Ross Taylor , FOUR , the 100-run stand comes up with a late cut. Sammy turns away in disappointment. He knows that it was a bad delivery , short and outside off , Ross Taylor plays late and cuts wide of point , beats Taylor 's chase. Guptill goes up to Taylor and knocks his bat , before telling 'come on' 35.1 Sammy to Guptill , 1 run , full on the stumps , driven to long-off Guptill then for the second time in his ODI career cracked back-to-back centuries. In his previous game he had scored a ton against Bangladesh. After a rather poor start , Guptill has found his touch in this World Cup. One striking aspect about his innings is that he has tended to play with a straight bat. The New Zealand camp would also be happy with Taylor scoring runs. With Guptill and Taylor lifting their game , the burden on Brendon McCullum 's shoulders to fire at top of the order has considerably reduced . West Indies ' bowlers struggled to stem the run flow as Martin Guptill and Ross Taylor took advantage of it to check in a slew of boundaries. When bowlers bowl on both sides of the wicket , it becomes difficult for the captain to set a field. Guptill being mainly a front foot player and Taylor looking to play back , it perhaps made it difficult for the bowlers to adjust their lines and lengths. In fact , on occasions , Guptill even pulled and cut on the front foot . Time for a Gatorade break Batting powerplay time 34.6 Samuels to Ross Taylor , no run , dabs it to short third , wants the quick single but it is n't there as Guptill sends him back 34.5 Samuels to Ross Taylor , FOUR , Ross Taylor gets a boundary with a cheeky improvisation. He shuffles across and laps Samuels , beating short fine inside the ring. Used the angle and played it well 34.4 Samuels to Guptill , 1 run , second 100 for Guptill in this World Cup ! Wellington as a whole rise up on their feet. His wife is clapping in the crowd. Gets there with a single to long-on. Takes the helmet off and raises the bat to all corners of the Cake Tin. Ross Taylor walks up and gives him a hug. Second time that Guptill has made back-to-back hundreds in ODIs. First time that a Kiwi batsman has scored back-to-back hundreds in WCs 34.3 Samuels to Guptill , 2 runs , opens the face of the bat and rocks back to play a late glide to third man , only a couple as the fielder fields by running back The crowd start their slow-clapping as Guptill is on strike 34.2 Samuels to Ross Taylor , 1 run , wrists it to the left of backward square leg , takes the single 34.1 Samuels to Ross Taylor , no run , tossed up outside off , Ross Taylor gets forward and finds short mid-wicket 33.6 Sammy to Ross Taylor , 1 run , back of a length on off , nudged to deep backward square leg , for a single 33.5 Sammy to Guptill , 1 run , punched to long-off , Sammy went to his left but the ball was well wide of him The crowd are cheering Guptill as he is just a hit away from a 100 33.4 Sammy to Guptill , no run , pitched up outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover 33.3 Sammy to Ross Taylor , 1 run , a single as Ross Taylor tucks that to deep square leg 33.2 Sammy to Guptill , 1 run , length outside off , Guptill shows the full face of the bat and drives to long-on 33.1 Sammy to Guptill , no run , what happened there ? All is well in the end. It was driven to Carter 's right at point , Guptill was ball-watching as Ross Taylor came near him almost. Carter dived and fielded it , but the ball slipped out of his grasp , then Guptill started to run towards the other end , Ross Taylor too ran back. Guptill saw that and went back to his crease. The throw came in late , by then Guptill had made it back. Comical stuff 32.6 Samuels to Ross Taylor , 2 runs , good running. Turns it with soft hands in front of deep mid-wicket , takes on the fielder and makes it back easily 32.5 Samuels to Guptill , 1 run , Guptill gets a thick inside-edge of sorts on the drive through mid-wicket 32.4 Samuels to Ross Taylor , 1 run , tossed up on the stumps , Ross Taylor nurdles a single to leg 32.3 Samuels to Guptill , 1 run , shuffles across and nudges it through square leg 32.2 Samuels to Guptill , no run , stays back and punches it to point , played with an open face 32.1 Samuels to Guptill , FOUR , drilled ! Well tossed up by Samuels and Guptill just drove that hard past the umpire. Beats Jerome Taylor running across from long-on. Well-hit. Moves into the nineties 31.6 Sammy to Ross Taylor , no run , short of length outside off , Ross Taylor cuts and in the end glides it straight to the fielder at short third man 31.5 Sammy to Guptill , 1 run , pushed wide of short mid-wicket , Samuels fumbles and that makes it easy for the batsmen. Had he picked it up it would 've been interesting 31.4 Sammy to Ross Taylor , 1 run , nudged to deep backward square leg , for a single 31.4 Sammy to Ross Taylor , wide , Sammy is appealing for something , but Ramdin was good behind the stumps as he flicked the bails off. Ross Taylor was going nowhere though. Slower delivery down leg , was it a ploy to get Ross Taylor out stumped ? Could well have been. The batsmnan missed the glance , but did n't lift his foot or drag it out 31.3 Sammy to Ross Taylor , no run , turned to short mid-wicket again 31.2 Sammy to Ross Taylor , no run , 'that 's the longest single I have seen not taken ever ' says Sir Ian Botham. Well put Sir Ian. It was pushed to the right of the diving Sammy , who did n't get there. Samuels went to his left from short mid-wicket , tried to boot it and stop it. He did n't too. Ross Taylor and Guptill thought about the single 4 times , decide against it. The ball goes almost till long-on. Sir Ian also reckons they could 've run two for that 31.1 Sammy to Ross Taylor , no run , short of length on the stumps , turned to short mid-wicket 30.6 Samuels to Guptill , no run , driven hard and straight to mid-off 30.5 Samuels to Guptill , no run , nudged to backward square leg 30.4 Samuels to Guptill , 2 runs , did that carry ? No Taylor ca n't get there from long-on. Guptill thought he was gone. He came down the track , went for the big lofted hit and miscued it , Taylor is an athlete , but the ball bounces in front of him as he ran in 30.3 Samuels to Guptill , no run , well tossed up outside off , Guptill gets forward and defends to cover 30.2 Samuels to Guptill , no run , Samuels gets lucky. Short and wide outside off , Guptill cuts on the bounce to point , straight to the fielder 30.1 Samuels to Ross Taylor , 1 run , tossed up outside off , wristed wide of short mid-wicket 29.6 Sammy to Guptill , FOUR , a boundary to spoil the over. Sammy drifted ever so slightly on the pads , Guptill flicked it past mid-wicket and the outfield does the rest. Sammy will be kicking himself for bowling there 29.5 Sammy to Guptill , no run , Sammy is doing well , another dot as Guptill punches it back to Sammy who fields with his left-hand 29.4 Sammy to Guptill , no run , short of length outside off , punched to Gayle at short cover now 29.3 Sammy to Guptill , no run , punched straight to the fielder at mid-on , timed that well , but did n't hit the gap 29.2 Sammy to Ross Taylor , leg byes , 1 run , down leg , rolls off the pad behind square as Ross Taylor misses the flick Ramdin comes up now 29.1 Sammy to Ross Taylor , no run , full outside off , wristed straight to the fielder at short mid-wicket 28.6 Samuels to Ross Taylor , 1 run , shuffles across and then nudges it to backward square leg , there was a bit of a stutter from him mid-pitch as he wanted confirmation from Guptill , which he got. Easily done in the end 28.5 Samuels to Ross Taylor , no run , Ross Taylor is finding it difficult to get the spinner away , wants to play it wide of short mid-wicket , but hits it straight to the fielder 28.4 Samuels to Ross Taylor , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Ross Taylor gets forward to block to short cover 28.3 Samuels to Guptill , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Guptill gets forward and drives to long-on 28.2 Samuels to Ross Taylor , 1 run , worked away to deep backward square leg 28.1 Samuels to Guptill , 3 runs , beautifully played. Guptill saw the length early , went back and opened the bat face to glide it delicately to third man , the ball is pulled back , so three. Samuels is stoic and keeps chewing away on his gum 27.6 Sammy to Ross Taylor , no run , on off stump , Ross Taylor flicks to short mid-wicket , straight to the fielder 27.5 Sammy to Guptill , 1 run , driven to the left of mid-on , Guptill rushes and makes it with ease as Holder is a bit lax 27.4 Sammy to Ross Taylor , 1 run , Ross Taylor is on the walk as he drives and then runs to mid-off 27.3 Sammy to Guptill , 1 run , offpace delivery , down leg , nurdled to the backward square leg fielder inside the ring Ramdin is up now 27.2 Sammy to Guptill , no run , tight stump-to-stump line from Sammy , Guptill defends to the right of Sammy , but mid-on is inside 27.1 Sammy to Guptill , no run , pitched up outside off , Guptill gets forward and mistimes the drive to cover , went too hard at it 26.6 Samuels to Guptill , 1 run , Guptill gets forward and shows the full face of the bat to long-on , past the bowler 's right 26.5 Samuels to Ross Taylor , 1 run , punched off the front foot to long-on 26.4 Samuels to Guptill , 1 run , Guptill comes down the track and then drives to mid-off 26.3 Samuels to Ross Taylor , 1 run , offbreak and nudged wide of short mid-wicket 26.2 Samuels to Guptill , 1 run , short of length and turning in , Guptill rocks back and punches it to sweeper cover 26.1 Samuels to Ross Taylor , 1 run , Ross Taylor shuffles across to off and middle and works this leg stump delivery to deep backward square leg 25.6 Sammy to Ross Taylor , 1 run , back of a length outside off , Ross Taylor punches it in front of cover and takes the single 25.5 Sammy to Ross Taylor , no run , Sammy is doing a good job , the cutter and it stops on Ross Taylor who checks his push to short mid-wicket 25.4 Sammy to Ross Taylor , no run , short of length outside off , Ross Taylor opens the face of the bat and pushes it to point 25.3 Sammy to Ross Taylor , no run , on a length and on the stumps , softly turned to short mid-wicket Mid-on goes back now 25.2 Sammy to Ross Taylor , no run , Ross Taylor gets forward and pushes it hard to short cover , he wanted to play it to long-off. He suggests that with his hands after finding the fielder 25.1 Sammy to Guptill , 1 run , good length outside off , Guptill looks to defend and gets a thick outside edge but through the vacant slip position , a single to third man 24.6 Samuels to Ross Taylor , no run , floated up outside off , Taylor goes across and defends it into the off-side off the outside half of the bat 24.5 Samuels to Ross Taylor , 2 runs , on middle and leg this time , Taylor bends down and laps it fine into the on-side , the batsmen take two before short fine leg fielder gets around 24.4 Samuels to Ross Taylor , no run , on the pads this time , Taylor turns it towards square leg 24.3 Samuels to Guptill , 1 run , flighted delivery on the stumps , Guptill eases it down to long-on 24.2 Samuels to Guptill , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Guptill drills it back to the bowler , who parries it towards the fielder at mid-wicket 24.1 Samuels to Guptill , no run , goes deep in the crease , opens the face to this flatter delivery outside off , but ca n't get it past backward point 23.6 Sammy to Ross Taylor , 2 runs , goes across to this fullish delivery on off , he works it past short fine leg , where Benn was fielding. He gives chase and hauls the ball back in with the foot , the batsmen take two though 23.5 Sammy to Guptill , 1 run , full delivery outside off , Guptill comes on the front foot and drives it to long-off The keeper is up to the stumps once again 23.4 Sammy to Ross Taylor , 1 run , angling in on the pads , Taylor works it in front of mid-wicket and sets off , the fielder runs forward and has a shy at the striker 's end , but the batsman was well in 23.3 Sammy to Ross Taylor , no run , touch fuller this time and just outside off , Taylor opens the face of the bat and knocks it to backward point 23.2 Sammy to Ross Taylor , no run , shortish delivery and a little wide outside off , Taylor mistimes the cut to backward point 23.1 Sammy to Guptill , 1 run , full delivery just outside off , Guptill goes for the drive , but mistimes it off the inside half of the bat , the ball goes to the right of Sammy , who was jumping to his right. The batsmen take a single as the fielder at mid-on was a little deep inside the circle 22.6 Samuels to Guptill , 1 run , floated up on the stumps , Guptill eases it down to long-on and he will keep the strike 22.5 Samuels to Guptill , FOUR , too short from Samuels , Guptill will cut that all day long , this time as well he rocks back and cuts it past backward point , who was diving to his right and the ball races away to the fence 22.4 Samuels to Ross Taylor , 1 run , floated up on middle , Taylor goes across and works it towards long-on 22.3 Samuels to Guptill , 1 run , another flatter delivery outside off , Guptill backs away and punches it to sweeper cover for a single 22.2 Samuels to Guptill , no run , flatter from Samuels , Guptill punches it to cover 22.1 Samuels to Guptill , 2 runs , drifting on the pads , Guptill waits inside the crease and flicks it fine , the batsmen take two before the short fine leg fielder chases it down Marlon Samuels , right-arm off break , comes into the attack A spinner for a spinner as Samuels replaces Benn , who has gone for 42 runs in his 7 overs 21.6 Sammy to Guptill , 1 run , full delivery on off , Guptill was looking to clip it through the on-side , closes the bat face a little too early and gets a leading edge that balloons towards the vacant mid-off region , the batsmen cross over as the ball rolls away towards long-off The keeper is up to the stumps now 21.5 Sammy to Ross Taylor , 1 run , bowls this one slightly wide outside off , Taylor was going for the cut there , but adjusts well to dab it towards third man for a single 21.4 Sammy to Ross Taylor , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Taylor punches it to Gayle at short cover 21.3 Sammy to Ross Taylor , no run , goes across to this length delivery on middle stump line , works it to short mid-wicket 21.2 Sammy to Guptill , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the pads , Guptill stays on the back foot and pushes it in front of mid-on , the batsmen take another quick run , good understanding between these two 21.1 Sammy to Ross Taylor , 1 run , starts off with a fullish delivery a little wide outside off , Taylor comes on the front foot , reaches to the pitch of the ball and drives it to sweeper cover Darren Sammy , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Jamie chirps from Cake Tin : The wicket looks to be slowing down a wee bit. Overs from Vettori might turn out to be crucial. He reckons Williamson might bowl as well. But that 's later on in the day . 20.6 Benn to Guptill , FOUR , poor bowling from Benn , it was short and well outside off , Guptill wo n't miss out on a freebie as he rocks back and cuts it square of the wicket , the ball rockets away , this is great batting from the Kiwi opener 20.5 Benn to Ross Taylor , 3 runs , drifting on the pads , Taylor tickles it fine , the short fine fielder dives to his right but fails to stop the ball , the batsmen take three before the fielder gets up , runs after it and chases it down 20.4 Benn to Guptill , 1 run , floated up on middle and leg , Guptill eases it down to long-on and gets to the other end 20.3 Benn to Guptill , no run , quicker and flatter from Benn , Guptill punches it to short cover 20.2 Benn to Guptill , FOUR , Guptill is playing really well here , it was a flighted delivery on the stumps , Guptill kneels down and sweeps it behind square on the on-side , the fielder at fine leg was inside the circle and the ball runs away to the boundary 20.1 Benn to Guptill , no run , turns away from around off , Guptill was pushing at it , the spin on it takes the outside edge as it rolls away towards short cover 19.6 A Russell to Guptill , 1 run , Guptill brings up his 23rd ODI fifty with this single , it was on a good length and just outside off , Guptill opens the face of the bat and bunts it towards sweeper cover , he will keep the strike 19.5 A Russell to Ross Taylor , 1 run , short of length delivery on middle , Taylor hops in the crease and wrists it towards square leg , the batsmen cross over 19.4 A Russell to Ross Taylor , no run , slower one from Russell just outside off , Taylor was upto the task as he defends it with a straight bat 19.3 A Russell to Ross Taylor , no run , length delivery outside off , Taylor comes forward and pushes it to mid-off 19.2 A Russell to Ross Taylor , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Taylor goes across and defends it to the right of the bowler 19.1 A Russell to Ross Taylor , no run , bowls this in the channel outside off , Taylor leans forward , lifts his bat and lets it go 18.6 Benn to Guptill , FOUR , great shot from Guptill to bring the team 100 , it was dragged short and well wide outside off , Guptill rocks back and cuts it hard , splits the fielders at backward point and short third man to perfection , the ball races away to the fence in no time 18.5 Benn to Ross Taylor , 1 run , floated up on off , Taylor comes on the front foot and drives it to sweeper cover 18.4 Benn to Ross Taylor , no run , flighted delivery around off , Taylor leans forward and pushes at it , the ball rolls away behind square on the on-side off the outside half of the bat 18.3 Benn to Guptill , 1 run , comes down the track to this tossed up delivery on middle , Guptill drives it to long-on 18.2 Benn to Ross Taylor , 1 run , on the pads this time , Taylor nurdles it behind square on the on-side 18.1 Benn to Guptill , 1 run , shortish and slightly wide outside off , Guptill cuts it towards backward point for a single 17.6 A Russell to Guptill , 1 run , yorker outside off , Guptill squeezes it out , the ball lobs up and was going towards the stumps , Guptill was watchful there and deflects it away with his bat , the keeper has a shy at the striker 's end and the ball rolled away towards the mid-on region after deflecting off the stumps , the batsmen then take a run on the overthrow 17.5 A Russell to Ross Taylor , 1 run , short of length delivery on middle stump line , Taylor hops in the crease and turns it towards square leg , the batsmen take an easy single as the fielder from mid-wicket gets across to field it 17.4 A Russell to Guptill , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Guptill stays on the back foot , lifts his left leg and tucks it away behind square on the on-side 17.3 A Russell to Guptill , no run , good bumper from Russell , Guptill was early into the pull there , but the ball goes over him 17.2 A Russell to Ross Taylor , 1 run , slightly back of a length and just outside off , Taylor pushes it to sweeper cover and gets to the other end A slip is in place for Taylor 17.1 A Russell to Ross Taylor , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Taylor defends off the back foot 16.6 Benn to Guptill , no run , touch flatter and spinning away from middle and leg line , Guptill was looking to work it through the on-side , but closes the bat face a little too early , gets a soft leading edge that rolls back towards the bowler 16.5 Benn to Guptill , no run , slower through the air and on off , Guptill leans forward and blocks 16.4 Benn to Ross Taylor , 1 run , tossed up on the pads , Taylor pushes it in front of mid-on and sets off , Guptill was a little hesitant there to go for the single , but reaches the striker 's end in time before the throw comes in 16.3 Benn to Ross Taylor , no run , touch quicker and on off , Taylor defends it into the on-side off the front foot A slip is in place 16.2 Benn to Ross Taylor , no run , floated up on off , Taylor defends it to the right of the bowler 16.1 Benn to Guptill , 1 run , tossed up on middle and leg , Guptill eases it down to long-on Ross Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease Holder then took an excellent catch to send the dangerous McCullum back to the pavilion and after starting on a good note , Williamson was dismissed by Andre Russell. Guptill could have been dismissed as well , but Marlon Samuels dropped a catch at square leg. West Indies may pay for that drop catch as Guptill has looked in fine touch. The deck is flat and there is a chance of dew coming into play later on this match. The pacers may look to bowl cross-seam as a variation under lights . Martin Guptill presented a full face of the bat to essay eye-catching shots down the ground. In fact , Jerome Taylor generated swing , but Guptill showed poise and balance to collect boundaries. Interestingly , Guptill is known as a lbw candidate against the new ball. Brendon McCullum too made his presence felt by thumping Jason Holder for 11 runs in fourth over. It can be difficult to bowl to McCullum as he is a very instinctive batsman. There is every chance that he may come down the wicket to a pacer or stay back in the crease . Drinks are on the field now 15.6 A Russell to Williamson , out Caught by Gayle ! ! The Kiwi vice-captain is gone against the run of play. He has thrown it away and it 's a huge wicket for West Indies. It was a nothing ball from Russell , it was short and well outside off. The only good thing about it was that Russell took the pace off the ball , Williamson goes for the cut and was a touch early into the shot , he hits it straight to Gayle at short cover , who juggles it once before snaffling it properly. The men from the Caribbean are delighted with this wicket. Williamson c Gayle b A Russell 33 ( 35 ) [ 4s-5 ] A Russell to Williamson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 15.5 A Russell to Williamson , no run , Russell goes fuller well outside off this time , Williamson goes right across his stumps and wanted to go big into the on-side , he ca n't connect and the ball takes the pad and rolls away towards the keeper Free-hit coming up 15.5 A Russell to Williamson , no ball , first no-ball of the day , it was banged in short and outside off , Williamson was thinking about pulling it , but pulls out of the shot and leaves it for the keeper 15.4 A Russell to Guptill , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Guptill goes back in the crease and punches it through the covers , the batsmen take a single 15.3 A Russell to Guptill , no run , slightly back of a length and on middle , Guptill pushes it to short cover from the crease 15.2 A Russell to Guptill , no run , early into the push off this back of a length delivery , it was in the air for some time but it bounces well before the bowler 15.1 A Russell to Williamson , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Williamson punches it to sweeper cover off the back foot 14.6 Benn to Williamson , 1 run , quicker and flatter around off , Williamson punches it to long-off for a single 14.5 Benn to Guptill , 1 run , on the pads once again , Guptill nudges it behind square on the on-side 14.4 Benn to Williamson , 1 run , flatter and on middle and leg , Williamson works it to deep square leg 14.3 Benn to Williamson , no run , drifting on middle and leg once again , Williamson leans forward and misses the forward push , the ball was however clipping the outer half of the leg stump as it did n't straighten enough , West Indies lose their review West Indies have decided to review an lbw decision this time. Williamson is the man in question. The third umpire says , 'Go to spin vision. Just checking if there is any bat involved. Looks like there is no bat and can you move to RTS. There is no bat involved. Can you go to ball-tracking. It is hitting in line , pitching in line and the impact is umpire 's call. The decision will stay not out.' 14.2 Benn to Guptill , 1 run , drags it short and well outside off , Guptill goes back and mistimes the cut towards long-off 14.1 Benn to Guptill , no run , a loud appeal for lbw ! West Indies do n't review it though , it was quicker and on middle and leg , Guptill was pushing at it off the front foot , the ball hits the pad first and Hawk-Eye shows it was going down leg 13.6 A Russell to Guptill , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Guptill jumps in the crease and nudges it towards square leg off his hips 13.5 A Russell to Williamson , 1 run , fuller and angling in on the pads , Williamson shuffles across slightly and clips it behind square on the on-side , the batsmen take a single before the fine leg fielder runs to his left and stops the ball 13.4 A Russell to Guptill , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Guptill hops in the crease , opens the face of the bat and gently guides it to the right of the keeper , the batsmen sneak in a quick single 13.3 A Russell to Guptill , no run , another short one and this time it was outside off , Guptill was rushed into the dab and he fails to get it past backward point , who moves across to his left and collects the ball 13.2 A Russell to Guptill , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Guptill drops it in front of backward point and was looking for the single there , but Williamson sends him back as the fielder was charging towards the ball 13.1 A Russell to Williamson , 1 run , banged in short once again , Williamson stays back and pulls it in the air towards deep square leg , where there is protection and the batsmen can only take a single 12.6 Benn to Guptill , no run , a maiden from Benn , it was down the leg-side this time , Guptill kneels down and sweeps , but ca n't beat the fielder at short fine leg 12.5 Benn to Guptill , no run , touch quicker and on middle and leg , Guptill leans forward and clips it to short mid-wicket 12.4 Benn to Guptill , no run , drifting on the pads once again , Guptill punches it towards short mid-wicket , was n't timed well at all 12.3 Benn to Guptill , no run , flighted delivery on middle stump , Guptill lunges forward in defence 12.2 Benn to Guptill , no run , flatter and just outside off , Guptill stays back and punches it back to the bowler 12.1 Benn to Guptill , no run , slower and on off , Guptill punches it towards point 11.6 A Russell to Williamson , FOUR , you ca n't bowl there to Williamson , he is a magnificent back foot player , it was short and at the batsman , Williamson pulls it to the deep mid-wicket fence , this boundary also brings up the 50-run stand between these two There are no slips in place for Russell 11.5 A Russell to Williamson , no run , bumper from Russell , Williamson ducks under it 11.4 A Russell to Williamson , 2 runs , full and outside off , Williamson goes for the front foot drive , the ball takes the outside edge and runs to the left of third man , the batsmen take two before the fielder gets around 11.3 A Russell to Guptill , 1 run , fuller and angling in on the pads , Guptill flicks it behind square on the on-side and gets to the other end 11.2 A Russell to Guptill , no run , fuller this time , Guptill leans forward and drives it to mid-off 11.1 A Russell to Guptill , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Guptill hops in the crease and punches it back to the bowler Andre Russell , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 10.6 Benn to Williamson , no run , drifting on the pads once again , Williamson flicks it to short mid-wicket , who moves across to his right and prevents the single 10.5 Benn to Williamson , no run , tossed up on middle , Williamson pushes it back to the bowler 10.4 Benn to Williamson , no run , on middle and leg , defended to short mid-wicket 10.4 Benn to Guptill , 2 wides , down the leg-side , Guptill misses the sweep and the keeper ca n't collect it either , the batsmen sneak in an extra run 10.3 Benn to Guptill , FOUR , this outfield is quick and the ground is n't too big either , it was a low full toss from Benn , Guptill comes on the front foot and drives it to the deep extra cover fence , Simmons from sweeper cover runs to his right but the ball had enough legs to reach the fence before him 10.2 Benn to Williamson , 1 run , touch quicker and on the pads , Williamson goes deep and nudges it towards mid-wicket for a single 10.1 Benn to Guptill , 1 run , flatter outside off , Guptill waits back inside the crease and knocks it to sweeper cover 9.6 J Holder to Williamson , no run , slower ball from Holder , Williamson defends it with soft hands and the ball rolls away towards the slip cordon 9.5 J Holder to Guptill , 1 run , good running between the wickets , looks like they have sorted their running issue , it was on a good length and on off and middle , Guptill leans forward and bunts it in front of mid-on , the fielder was a little deep inside the circle , Guptill saw that and took off for the run , Williamson responded well too 9.4 J Holder to Guptill , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Guptill stays inside the crease and punches it to cover 9.3 J Holder to Williamson , 1 run , touch shortish and well outside off , Williamson cuts it to the left of backward point , who dives to his left and saves some runs for his team 9.2 J Holder to Williamson , FOUR , that 's a great shot from Williamson , it was a short of length delivery outside off , Williamson gets on top of the bounce and punches it sweetly square of the wicket , the fielder from cover-point gives chase but the ball beats him to the fence 9.1 J Holder to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Williamson defends with the full face of the bat , the ball rolls back onto the body , but Williamson was watching it closely there 8.6 Benn to Williamson , 1 run , pushed through on the pads , Williamson goes back and nudges it to deep square leg , he will keep the strike 8.5 Benn to Williamson , no run , better from Benn as he gives this one more air on off , Williamson goes on the back foot and defends 8.4 Benn to Guptill , 1 run , floated up on middle , Guptill clips it past mid-wicket for a single 8.3 Benn to Williamson , 1 run , touch flatter and on middle and leg , Williamson goes deep in the crease and nudges it through square leg for a single 8.2 Benn to Guptill , 1 run , drifting on the pads , Guptill tucks it away to deep square leg and gets to the other end Just a slip in place for Benn 8.1 Benn to Guptill , FOUR , not a great way to start your spell , it was short and outside off , Guptill had enough time to rock back and he cuts it through backward point , the ball races away to the fence Sulieman Benn , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack Introduction of spin for the first time as Benn comes into the attack More from Jamie about the Wellington crowd : Now the stadium has a vibe. Almost filled up. Many still outside. Lovely weather. The Kiwi supporters outnumber the fans from the Caribbean , not surprisingly . 7.6 J Holder to Williamson , no run , angling in on off and middle , Williamson shuffles across slightly and works it to square leg 7.5 J Holder to Guptill , 3 runs , length delivery just outside off , Guptill punches it hard and gets it just over the leaping short cover fielder , the batsmen take three before the ball is hunted down before the deep extra cover fence 7.4 J Holder to Guptill , no run , bowls this fuller and just outside off , Guptill watches it closely and shoulders arms 7.3 J Holder to Guptill , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Guptill defends it towards short cover 7.2 J Holder to Guptill , no run , touch fuller and on the stumps , Guptill comes on the front foot and drives it to mid-on 7.1 J Holder to Guptill , no run , on a good length and on off , Guptill punches it to short cover 6.6 Jerome Taylor to Williamson , FOUR , gives width this time and Williamson goes hard after it , the ball flies off the outside edge and flies past the slip and runs away to the fence 6.5 Jerome Taylor to Williamson , no run , short of length once again , Williamson defends it to the right of the bowler this time 6.4 Jerome Taylor to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Williamson jumps in the crease and defends it to the fielder at silly mid-off A slip has been taken out and put at straightish silly mid-off 6.3 Jerome Taylor to Williamson , FOUR , full and angling in on middle stump line , Williamson shuffles across and works it beautifully to the deep mid-wicket fence 6.2 Jerome Taylor to Williamson , FOUR , fullish this time and on off , Williamson leans forward into the drive and hits it uppishly towards the bowler , who bends low to his left but ca n't get a hand on it , the ball runs away to the fence 6.1 Jerome Taylor to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery rising towards the batsman , Williamson jumps in the crease and mistimed the back foot punch back to Taylor who softly kicks the ball past Simmons at short cover , Simmons has a wry smile after getting to the ball as he knew he was done in by Taylor there. Simmons made sure that he prevented the single though 5.6 J Holder to Williamson , 1 run , angling in on the pads once again , Williamson works it behind square , the fielder from square leg runs to his right and dives , Williamson was ball watching there as Guptill took off for the single , the throw came at the non-striker 's end , but Williamson made it in time. The running however has n't been great between these two 5.5 J Holder to Williamson , no run , length delivery just outside off , Williamson leans forward and defends 5.5 J Holder to Williamson , no run , length delivery just outside off , Williamson leans forward and defends 5.4 J Holder to Williamson , no run , in the channel outside off , Williamson lifts his bat and lets it go 5.3 J Holder to Guptill , 1 run , touch fuller and just outside off , Guptill puts his front foot forward and pushes at it , gets an inside edge that rolls away behind square on the on-side , the batsmen take a single but only after the ball passed the fielder. Both the batsmen were looking at each other mid-pitch , since the ball went wide , no damage done 5.2 J Holder to Williamson , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Williamson opens the face of the bat and dabs it down to third man 5.1 J Holder to Williamson , no run , angling in on the pads , Williamson turns it to the right of square leg and sets off for the single , but the ball was quickly got to by the fielder , Guptill sends him back as the fielder has a shy at the striker 's end , but luckily he was back in time Coming back to the McCullum dismissal , he plays the game like this. McCullum knows that sometimes he can pull it off , but sometimes he might get out as well. However , he was very disappointed today after getting out like that 4.6 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , no run , short of length delivery and wide outside off , Guptill looks to cut , but gets a bottom edge to cover 4.5 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Guptill pokes at it away from his body , the ball beats the outside edge 4.4 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , FOUR , shortish and little width on offer and Guptill latches onto it in a flash , he cuts it to the sweeper cover fence and collects another four 4.3 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , no run , fuller in length and shaping away outside off , Guptill shoulders arms Kane Williamson , right handed bat , comes to the crease 4.2 Jerome Taylor to Brendon McCullum , out Caught by J Holder ! ! Great catch and a big wicket for West Indies , it is McCullum who has perished while trying to go hard at the new ball. It was full again with a touch of shape away just on middle , McCullum goes for the big lofted drive once again , but miscues it completely. The bat face turned on impact and he sliced it , the ball goes high in the air and Holder from mid-off runs to his left and takes a great catch running back and sideways. It was dropping over his shoulder but he used those long arms to great effect and stretched out to take a blinder. He is extremely delighted as he jumps and punches the air in delight. Brendon McCullum c J Holder b Jerome Taylor 12 ( 8 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] Jerome Taylor to Brendon McCullum , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 4.1 Jerome Taylor to Brendon McCullum , no run , fuller in length and on off , McCullum wanted to go over mid-off , but does n't get under it properly , the ball goes on the bounce to the fielder at mid-off The guy who caught it in the crowd was seen on the phone talking to someone. Must be feeling really good about the catch. He now goes into a lucky draw that could win him one million NZ dollars if NZ win the final 3.6 J Holder to Guptill , no run , another short of length delivery on off , Guptill defends after hopping a little , the ball takes the inside edge onto the pitch and rolls towards the pad , no harm done though 3.5 J Holder to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle stump line , McCullum hangs on the back foot and pushes it towards short mid-wicket , the batsmen pinch a quick run 3.4 J Holder to Brendon McCullum , SIX , was that a one-handed catch ? Yes , it was. It was banged in short and at the batsman , McCullum pulls it magnificently even though one hand came off the bat , the ball clears the deep backward square leg fence as well , someone in the crowd catches it too 3.3 J Holder to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , that 's a poor delivery from Holder , on the pads this time , McCullum whips it behind square on the on-side , the fielder at fine leg runs to his left but the ball rockets away to the fence 3.2 J Holder to Brendon McCullum , no run , McCullum advances to this length delivery from Holder , he wanted to flat-bat it over mid-on but fails to get any elevation , the ball goes on the bounce to Benn at mid-on 3.1 J Holder to Brendon McCullum , no run , good ball from Holder , it was on a good length and on off stump , McCullum pushes it to the left of the bowler 2.6 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , no run , length delivery that holds its line outside off , Guptill leaves it for the keeper What has happened here ? Oxenford has a given a friendly warning to Taylor for running on the danger area. Not an official warning though 2.5 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , no run , on a good length and a hint of outswing just outside off , Guptill gets behind the line and defends it towards mid-off 2.4 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , no run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Guptill stays back and defends it to the right of the bowler , he was looking for the single there , but Taylor was quick to get across and prevents the run 2.3 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , no run , drags his length back slightly this time , Guptill pushes at it , the ball rolls away towards the point region off the outside half of the bat 2.2 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , FOUR , and again ! Back-to-back boundaries for Guptill , another full delivery on middle stump line , Guptill drives it to the right of the bowler this time , the mid-on fielder gives chase , but the ball beats him to the fence 2.1 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , FOUR , great shot from Guptill , it was full and on off , Guptill comes on the front foot and drives it past the bowler , who sticks out his left hand , but ca n't get to the ball , the ball races away to the fence 1.6 J Holder to Guptill , 1 run , full delivery outside off , Guptill goes for the booming drive into the off-side , the ball flies off the outside edge to third man 1.5 J Holder to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , another quick single from McCullum to get off the mark , it was another length ball on off , McCullum stays in the crease and bunts it in front of mid-off , McCullum is too quick for the mid-off fielder , who runs in , picks the ball and has a shy at the non-striker 's end 1.4 J Holder to Guptill , 1 run , drop-and-run single from Guptill , it was on a good length and on off , Guptill gently pushes it in front of short cover and sets off , the batsmen complete the single comfortably in the end 1.3 J Holder to Guptill , no run , shortish and little wide outside off , Guptill had enough room to free his arms there , he cuts but picks out backward point 1.2 J Holder to Guptill , no run , on a good length and around off , Guptill comes on the front foot and defends solidly 1.1 J Holder to Guptill , no run , fullish outswinger and just outside off , Guptill leans forward and drives it to mid-off Jason Holder , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Holder will share the attack with Taylor. There are two slips in place for him as well 0.6 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , leg byes , 1 run , splays this one on the pads , Guptill fails to glance it fine , the batsmen sneak in a leg bye as the ball rolls away towards fine leg off his pad , an eventful over comes to an end 0.5 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Guptill punches it to cover from the crease 0.4 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , no run , fuller again with a touch of shape away from Guptill , Guptill pushes it towards mid-off 0.3 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , no run , ohh dear ! Samuels has dropped Guptill , how costly will this drop be ? It was fuller and on the pads , Guptill flicks it uppishly towards square leg , where Samuels dives to his left and tries to take it , the ball hits him on the wrist , he juggles and fails to hold onto it 0.2 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , no run , full and shaping away outside off , Guptill leaves it alone 0.1 Jerome Taylor to Guptill , FOUR , fuller delivery with a hint of outswing on off and middle , Guptill leans forward and drives it past the non-striker , the ball runs away towards the long-on boundary as the mid-on and mid-off fielders give chase , Holder tries to boot the ball back in , but it rolls back onto the ad-cushion Guptill and Brendon McCullum are at the crease. Guptill is on strike. Jerome Taylor will open the attack Guptill will take the strike first up. Taylor will start the proceedings with the ball. There are two slips in place . The West Indies team form a huddle , while McCullum and Guptill wait on the sidelines. Some animated words to his boys from coach Curtly Ambrose. The players now walk onto the field . The teams line up for the anthems. " Rally Round the West Indies " is followed by New Zealand 's anthem . Our man , Jamie Alter is at the ground. It 's a big day for the city , which is hosting its first ever World Cup knock-out match and the crowd are ready for all the buzz - " The stadium looks a little more than half full at the moment. Fans still milling in through the turnstiles. Should be a good crowd , " he says . Pitch Report : " This pitch has been used already. The drop-in pitches generally tend to play a lot better the second time around. There 's not much grass on it. It 's flat , it 's been rolled really well. I think it will play terrifically well , a lot of runs. There might be dew later. Batting first , I think they should get 280-300 on the board , " reckons Simon Doull . Teams : West Indies ( Playing XI ) : Chris Gayle , Johnson Charles , Marlon Samuels , Jonathan Carter , Lendl Simmons , Denesh Ramdin ( w ) , Darren Sammy , Andre Russell , Jason Holder ( c ) , Jerome Taylor , Sulieman Benn New Zealand ( Playing XI ) : Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Martin Guptill , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Grant Elliott , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( w ) , Daniel Vettori , Adam Milne , Tim Southee , Trent Boult New Zealand have won the toss and have opted to bat McCullum : " It 's been a great week , things have really built up as well throughout the week and the anticipation of the New Zealand public as well. The boys are really excited about the opportunity to play in a quarter-final today. We know the challenges the West Indies present but the boys are in a good space and are looking forward to the game. We are going to have a bat first. The wicket looks really good , little bit different to the surface we played England on. Obviously a used wicket as well , so hopefully we will post a good score. I guess that 's one of the reasons. Runs on the board can be quite valuable in these sort of situations. It 's a great atmosphere here today , I 'm sure it will build as the day goes on and if we can get a good score on the board , then we can be desperate in the field later. Adam ( Milne ) is alright. He 'll be fine for this game. He 's looking forward to it. He 's a huge player for us with his ability to bowl fast as well in that third seamer role. He comes in for Mitchell McClenaghan , otherwise an unchanged team. Boys are excited. It is a great place to play when you get such a big crowd turn up and the Wellington public really enjoy following this team as well. So we ca n't wait to get involved. It 's going to be a great day and hopefully we 'll get the result at the end. " Holder : " We 've had an excellent week. We had a few days off when we first got here and then we had three solid days of training , so the guys are ready to go. Not too disappointed ( to lose the toss ) . The wicket is a good wicket and hopefully it should hold up for the entire game and we can get some early wickets. Chris ( Gayle ) is back in , Dwayne Smith misses out. Sulieman Benn comes back in for Kemar Roach. There 's also a thing about Kiwis playing left-arm spin so hopefully we can get some wickets from Benn today. It 's all behind us at the moment. We are pretty much focussed on this game , we are very confident coming into this game. A lot of pressure is on New Zealand to win , obviously in their hometown. So just going to come out and be aggressive and come out with a win. " Brendon McCullum : " We 're not going to get too far in front of ourselves as a group. We know tomorrow will be a tough challenge , and we need to make sure we stand up and plan to execute our skills. " Quotes : Curtly Ambrose , West Indies ' bowling coach : " If we can get a good start , blunt the attack early , then we could be in for a good ball game. " Weather update : No chance of rain. It will be partly cloudy and sunny. A high of 19C is predicted with a humidity of 59 % expected. Should be a good day for playing cricket . Darren Sammy used a famous boxing analogy to describe how his side would go about their task against New Zealand. " It 's a big match , but I remember some guy called Douglas beating Mike Tyson. It 's a case of that on Saturday. We always believed from the time that the tournament started that the first goal was to reach the quarter-finals , and after that you 're two knockout games from a World Cup final. We 've won two. It 's been a long time , but New Zealand has not won any. I watched the guys warm up today and it 's just a different feeling. The dressing room is pumped , I can feel it. It is the business end , you could win all your games in the round matches but come the knockouts , there 's no guarantee that you 're going to win. The guys know what 's at stake and we 're going to do everything in our powers to beat Mike Tyson. " More praise for McCullum 's captaincy comes from former chairman of selectors and board president , Don Neely who feels McCullum is changing New Zealand cricket. " His captaincy is brilliant , " he says. " I 've never seen a New Zealand captain so good. Aggressive field settings , backs his strike bowlers. Courageous. It takes a man with sheer courage to set fields like what we 've seen in some of the games this World Cup , and he has buckets of it. The way he dives into the fence , one day he 'll go through one of them and get his head caught someplace. If you 're fielding for a guy like that you 're bound to be inspired. Fielding is such a big part of the game. McCullum is leading New Zealand into a new era. " Let us have a look at all the noises made by both the teams going into the game. Starting with Brendon McCullum who is a big horse racing fan. He uses a racing analogy to describe the quarter-final. " In horse racing , and I 'm a big horse racing fan , if we miss the start it does n't mean we 're out of the race. I think the horse has never been better , and we 've got every chance in this game to be able to go out there and win even if things are n't a hundred percent. That 's something we probably ca n't say about too many New Zealand teams in the past , that 's encouraging , " said McCullum . Chris Gayle has resorted to taking injections as he fights against time in a bid to be ready for the knock-out stages of the competition. His back problems forced him to miss the final league match against UAE , but indications from the West Indies camp is that he 'll be available for the quarter-final clash. His replacement for the UAE encounter , Johnson Charles , performed credibly and that will mean Dwayne Smith - who has scored a measly 93 runs from 6 innings is the most likely candidate to face the axe. Up against the free stroking New Zealand batsmen , Holder might fancy playing Sulieman Benn , the left-arm orthodox spinner in place of Kemar Roach . Pre-match team news : New Zealand are likely to welcome back Adam Milne to their bowling arsenal. The pacer missed the last league match against Bangladesh with an injured shoulder and should come in for Mitchell McClenaghan . Head-to-Head record : It 's even-stevens as far as World Cup meetings are concerned. The two teams have met each other 6 times and at 3-3 , both teams have shared spoils. Worryingly though for West Indies , their last win over New Zealand in a World Cup game came way back in 1999. They have faced each other only once during the knock-out stages and West Indies took that 1975 clash by a comfortable 5-wicket margin. Does this influence today 's match ? Pitch Conditions : 'Cake Tin ' has had a mixed record this season. There were two big league matches played and there were contrasting results in both of them. England featured in both games - Tim Southee 's sensational 7/33 condemned them to 123 all-out , the lowest score by a Test playing nation in this edition of the World Cup. If that was their lowest ebb , more humiliation was to follow as they failed to defend a more than competitive score of 309 against Sri Lanka - losing by a whopping nine wicket margin. So what can be expected from the pitch for the quarter-final ? It 's anybody 's guess . They now believe that the quarter-finals are a new ball game. One bad day for New Zealand or one good day for West Indies is enough to set the tongues wagging again. It is this belief that makes Holder 's men very dangerous. " Well , you are right ; as you guys put it , we were not supposed to be here , " Sammy said , in his own cheeky manner. But he does n't rule out an upset - saying that the pressure was completely on New Zealand. " We 're not too bad in knockout games. We 're just going to enjoy it , " he added. If there 's one team that turns into a force when they enjoy their game , it is this set of men from the bunch of Central American Islands. So beware , New Zealand . West Indies : If there 's quiet confidence in New Zealand 's camp , there 's more positivity and belief amongst Jason Holder and his men. Unlike New Zealand , West Indies did n't have it all too easy during the group stages. Ireland were no pushovers but their stunning win in the first match left West Indies floundering. If they were hurting inside , the 150-run hammering of Pakistan must have soothed their nerves. If that was convincing , Chris Gayle and Marlon Samuels ' show against Zimbabwe brought back the old Caribbean flair. Things looked rosy and West Indies seemed to be back. It was n't a revival though ; they were hammered for 408 by AB de Villiers & Co. in their very next encounter , leaving Holder 's men clutching at the straws. It was followed by another stinging defeat , this time at the hands of the Indians. Going into the final encounter against UAE , they needed not just a big win but also some help from Pakistan. Both came their way and they just managed to scrape into the knock-out stage . So how 's the preparation for the big match ? The Kiwi camp has stayed focused on the goal ahead and is n't willing to look too far ahead as yet. " This game it has a funny , funny way of biting you if you take your eye off the ball. We know what works for us , " skipper , McCullum said. " We need to go out there and make sure we 're nice and calm in our mindset , and make sure that we know what 's on the line but still be able to execute the skills that have served us so well over a number of games now. In seven hours the game can turn on a knife edge , " he added . If McCullum has led from the front , it 's the bowling department that has well and truly placed New Zealand on the pedestal. The new ball duo of Trent Boult and Tim Southee has given opposing batsmen nightmares - and if you manage to get past them , the towering figure of Dan Vettori confronts them. The orthodox left-arm tweaker has been a revolution in this tournament. He 's not just parsimonious with the ball , but his guile and agility has left many a batsman unstuck. The spinner himself is n't ready to soak into the applause - not with three big games still to come. It 's about knowing that my role is to be a complementary piece to our attacking bowlers , " he said modestly , ahead of the Wellington match . So what 's been the focal point of their campaign ? McCullum 's leadership has come in for a lot of praise and has become the toast of the country. His captaincy is in the mould of his batting , - unbridled aggression - something that Sir Viv Richards greatly admires. " The way he walks on to the field , the way he carries himself , there is an urgency that he brings to this New Zealand team. It is something you look forward to when watching him play , " the legendary West Indian batsman has been quoted as saying . New Zealand : As co-hosts , New Zealand came into the tournament with not just form but also with the backing of the populace. Their confidence has n't been misplaced as Brendon McCullum & Co. have more than just lived up to the hype. It all started with a crushing 98-run win over Sri Lanka in the inaugural game of the tournament , followed by a 3-wicket humbling of Scotland. While the two wins were along expected lines , the massive trouncing of England and an equally gritty one-wicket victory over co-hosts , Australia , made teams stand and take notice. New Zealand were n't just another contender ; they were fast becoming everyone 's favorites to lift the trophy. McCullum 's men had become the first team to seal a quarter-final berth. Afghanistan offered little fight and Bangladesh a bit more - but New Zealand finished their league engagements with an all-win record . Before we go any further , let 's have a look at the respective teams ' road to the quarter-finals . 12 : 10 Local Time , 23 : 10 GMT , 04 : 40 IST : The quarter-final has moved across from Sydney to Melbourne and from Adelaide to the other part of the Tasman Sea. It 's New Zealand 's turn to host the fourth and final quarter-final , the clash between co-hosts and red-hot favourites , New Zealand and a beleaguered West Indies. The 'Cake Tin ' as the Westpac stadium is famously called - plays host to its first ever World Cup knock-out clash. On form , it should be a straightforward victory for the hosts. But the result is n't always decided on the basis of just form and if there 's one team that can spring a surprise , it is this West Indian team . Preview by Jamie Alter This is what it boils down to. The day that New Zealand cricket fans have been waiting for. If you go by the newspapers and radio and television and chatter on the street , it is a day that was theirs for the taking since the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup started in Christchurch on Valentine 's Day with a commanding victory over Sri Lanka , who were finalists in the last two tournaments. Five wins later , New Zealand 's unbeaten run has set them up for Saturday at Westpac Stadium where they face West Indies in the fourth and final quarter-final for a spot in the World Cup 's final four . West Indies , who lost to Ireland in their first game and who scraped into the knockouts when it seemed the world had written them off. West Indies , without Dwayne Bravo and Kieron Pollard and who lost their No 3 two games into the tournament. West Indies , creaking from administrative instability and with a captain hardly a couple years into international cricket. West Indies , so often on the tipping point of falling into an abyss. West Indies , who true cricket fans will always want to do well for the good of the game . It could not be a better match-up for the final quarter-final of the World Cup. A David-versus-Goliath story. A pre-tournament favourite whose status had risen exponentially over past 12 months leading into the tournament against rank outsiders , who at times , it seems , were struggling to put together a squad . Sir Richard Hadlee simplified the formula for success or failure by saying that four years of preparation and planning boils down to seven hours of cricket on the field. " Once you 're into the knockouts , it is totally different. It comes back to seven hours of cricket , " he said. " This is four years of planning and preparation to get to seven hours , and if you 're good enough you get another seven hours. Good enough again , you get to a final. Another seven hours and potentially you can be crowned world champions. Get it wrong in the quarter-finals - drop a catch , top order fails , the bowlers do n't get it right , the fielding is not as good as it has been - and it can all be over in those seven hours. " So far , New Zealand have played good cricket for the most , barring two scares. They beat Sri Lanka by 98 runs ; Scotland by three wickets ; England by eight wickets ; Australia by one wicket ; Afghanistan by six wickets ; and Bangladesh by three wickets. They have been challenged twice , first by Scotland when chasing 143 and then by Australia in pursuit of 152 , then they won by a single wicket. Nerves ? Plenty , but as Brendon McCullum said on the eve of the big match , that was what the team had prepared for . " One of the things which we 've worked really hard on over the last six to 12 months is being able to make sure we still head into pressure games with the same level of preparation and confidence and understanding of what works for us so we can go out there and exhibit our skills and that 's what tomorrow is going to present for us as well , " he told reporters at the Basin Reserve on Friday. " There is added pressure because it 's a knockout game , but it still does n't take away from the fact that the game is a game , and that does n't change just because there is more on the line. For us , I still think we need to go out and play that attacking brand of cricket which we 've played throughout. It does n't guarantee us success , and I 've said that all the way along. " New Zealand have McCullum , Martin Guptill and Kane Williamson for a formidable top order , but Ross Taylor has struggled and Grant Elliott is in need of a sizeable score. Luke Ronchi has hardly batted in the World Cup. The middle order is where West Indies should really target should New Zealand 's top three fail. They have two good pace bowlers in Jason Holder and Jerome Taylor , but the lack of firepower after that is a concern. Darren Sammy has been given five overs in six matches , Andre Russell , with nine wickets is the only other bowler who looks like picking up wickets. Sulieman Benn 's left-arm spin has produced two wickets in two matches and Kemar Roach , once the leader of the attack , has managed one wicket in three games. Marlon Samuels ' whippish brand of spin has also not been a success on generally unresponsive surfaces . Chris Gayle and the scratchy Dwayne Smith ( his best is 31 and his average 15.50 ) will have to cope with New Zealand 's swing pair of Tim Southee and Trent Boult and then the raw pace of Adam Milne , who McCullum suggested would return to the XI , but West Indies ' bigger test could come against Daniel Vettori , the most economical bowler of the tournament and who has repeatedly had opposition batsmen in knots with his left-arm spin. His 13 wickets have included the scalps of Tillakaratne Dilshan , Mahela Jayawardene , Eoin Morgan , Shane Watson and Steven Smith - all pedigree players. West Indies have lost 14 of their 39 wickets to spin in the tournament , with the common theme being hard-hit shots against slow-turning deliveries. Vettori poses a big threat with his changes of pace and nagging accuracy. Even if the top order gets past Southee and Boult , a threat remains . On Thursday , West Indies ' bowling coach Curtley Ambrose was reminded of what Sammy said the day before about New Zealand , unbeaten in the tournament and backed as hosts , being the team under all the pressure. He smiled , nodded his head , and agreed . " What happened in the preliminary round does n't matter now , " said Ambrose. " It 's about who plays better on the day. One dropped catch or one good innings could change the whole game. It depends who wants it more. New Zealand are one of the favourites to beat us and win the World Cup. We are not. So that extra pressure could take a toll if New Zealand are not strong enough mentally. It 's got nothing to do with cricketing skill , but the extra pressure of playing at home. They expect to beat us , but we are n't under any pressure. We 're going to go out on Saturday and enjoy our cricket , play the best we can , and play to win. " Gayle 's participation is a huge point of speculation. He trained with the team at the Basin Reserve on Friday , but as Holder said , the call will only be taken on match morning. With the team banking on Gayle to return to the line-up , the management will have to take a call on who to drop. The likeliest candidate is Smith , whose best is 31 and average 15.50. Johnson Charles scored 55 from 40 balls against the UAE when opening in Gayle 's place , so he should hold on to his spot. If Smith is retained , Charles could drop down a spot to No 3. Should that happen , Jonathan Carter may have to move out , even though he scored his maiden ODI fifty in the previous match . West Indies did not play a spinner against UAE , getting through Samuels for ten overs , but that may change too. The options are Suleiman Benn and Nikita Miller , with Roach the man to face the chop . On February 14 , McCullum 's team gave the home fans plenty more reason to be loved on Valentine 's Day. Exactly six weeks later , West Indies will be out to break many hearts . Teams : West Indies ( From ) : Chris Gayle , Johnson Charles , Marlon Samuels , Jonathan Carter , Lendl Simmons , Denesh Ramdin ( w ) , Darren Sammy , Andre Russell , Jason Holder ( c ) , Jerome Taylor , Kemar Roach , Nikita Miller , Sulieman Benn , Sheldon Cottrell , Dwayne Smith New Zealand ( From ) : Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Martin Guptill , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Grant Elliott , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( w ) , Daniel Vettori , Adam Milne , Tim Southee , Trent Boult , Tom Latham , Mitchell McClenaghan , Nathan McCullum , Kyle Mills Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
